
    ----CITATION----
        Phillips, William Barnet.. The Diamond Cross .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7435
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The diamond cross 
            
                 DIAMOND CROSS; A Tale of American Society. BY WILLIAM BARNET PHJTTPS.  NEW YORK:  HLTON & COMPANY, PUBLISHERS. PHLADELPHA J. B. LIPPINCOTT & Co. ST. LOUIS : J. F. TORREY & CO.     Entered according to Ac of Congress, in the year 1866 by W. B. PHLLIPS, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern Distrit of New Yoxk.   THE DIAMOND CROSS.  A Tale of American Society. CHAPTER I. "I wonder who those gentlemen are," remarked Mrs. Risley to her daughter Gertrude, as they stood on the deck of the Canada, glancing 'at the two individuals refer- red to. "Does any one on board know them? They look like very respectable persons. They converse in French always; yet I heard the captain say that one is an Ameri- can. Mr. Selman told me he overheard their conversa- tion last evening, and that theywere speaking of a large estate which has been left in the United States to the one who appears to be a Frenchman. I suppose he is going to take possession of it. I am surprised that Mr. Selman does not make their acquaintance; he has a very ready way of becoming Jacquainted with people. If. we knew them, Gertrude, think they might be agreeable acquaint- ances:; and the society of such gentleman might make our voyage less tedious." These remarks were made on board the steamship men-   4        She Diamond Cross. tioned, on her passage across the Atlantic to the United States in the year '849. The- persons spoken of were Charles Mosely, a Virginian, who had been spending -several years in Europe-and was then returning home, and Emile Lanabere, a native of the south of France, who was . going to take possession of an estate bequeathed to him in Louisiana.  These gentleman became acquainted with each other, as many acquaintances are made, by accidentally meeting omn board 'the steamship. From this circumstance, though trifling in itself seemingly, sprung the series of events which are mentioned in the romantic history that follows. Providence evolves or controls events which we are in the habit of calling accidents, for wise purposes.* Most of us have seen in the course of our experience instances of truth having been brought to light and justice vindicated through causes apparently fortuitous; and it is often dis- covered that singular coincidences, as they are termed, are but the links of a chain properly connected. Mosely was a fine looking man, of the English type, and was a descendant of an Anglo-Saxon- family. He was thirty years of age, rather above the medium height, and had a symmetry of form that gave an impression of both strength and grace. Any one looking in his, face would have said he was an intellectual man, for his forehead was full and his dark hazel-grey eyes were very expressive, varying much according to the impressions of his mind. - He was much liked by all who knew him, and strangers who approached him were impressed by his manner and intelligence. Notwithstanding his frankness and4 occa- sional joyousness he was a man of much thought, and grave beyond his years, like one who had experienced a ' great deal of anxiety or whose mind had been occupied with serious matters. He had been launched into the world early in life, in consequence of the death of his father (his mother having   The Diamond Cross.       5 died when he was a child), and the breaking up of his home by the sale of the family estate. His mind was stored with knowledge on almost every subject; for he learned from whatever he saw or read, having a keen per- dtption and the faculty of analysis in a high degree. He was throughly educated, therefore, in the. sense, of having acquired knowledge. Few men of his age had travelled nore or had seen as much of the world. While he had naturally a lively imagination and sanguine disposition, his experience and logical powers made him as practical as a mathematician, thus giving him a well balanced mind. Contract with human nature in many of its phases- and a knowledge of itsselfishness had not blunted his feelings. He was charitable to the weakness and follies of people, loved what was beautiful and cherished what was good. He was ambitious to distinguish himself is an intel- lectual and accomplished man, but having no profession, he could not see clearly in which career he might attain this distinction; still the thought hautited him continually. The idea of entering into public life was more constantly in his mind than any other, and bhe was conscious- of pos- sessing qualifications for that. He had studied the science -of government both in his own country and abroad, and he understood the political- and social institutions of the na- tions of Europe as well as the United States. He posses- sed -advantages that, few had for forming liberal and com- prehensive views and a correct judgement on questions pertaining to the condition and government of society. Such was one of the most prominent actors in this .narra- tive; and it will be seen hereafter what circumstances oc- cured in the brief space of two or three years to develop his character and direct the current of his life. Lanabere was of a different type. He was impetuous, generous; brave, and sensitive as the' mimosa. His com- plection and hair were dark, his eyes black and' full of language, instantly lighting up with beams of intelligence   6        Thze Diamond Cross. in conversation or when the imagination became excited; his features were sharp, inclining to be aquiline and his forehead was high, but not broad or projecting, indicating a quick perception rather than profound reasoning powers. He was taller than most of his countrymen, slender, erect, and walked firmly and rapidly, like one conscious of -intel- lectual superroity and who had lived amidst the mental excitement of a great capital. He was several years younger than Mosely, and had neither the experience nor sound judgement of that gentleman. Lanabere had been educated in the first schools of France, and had studied the profession of an advocate. He went to Paris when twenty-four years of age to finish his law studies and to become connected with one of the eminent lawyers in that city. .Although he had the men- tal qualifications and a certain aptitude for the profession, as well as ambition, he had more taste for the study of ethics and political science. The period of his residence in Paris was more favorable for the gratification of this taste than for his professional studies. The three or four years he was there the city was in a constant ferment of political agitation,' which was just preceding the fall of Louis Philippe, during the revolution of 1848,' and the re- action under Louis Napoleon. He, like almost every young 4 man in Paris at that time, threw himself into the vortex of the revolution with all the ardor of his nature, became an active member of the clubs, and a journalist of the extreme school of republicans.          - Just at the time when Lanabere might apprehend at any hour a visit from the agents of M. Carlier, the famous Prefect of the Police in Paris, and when Louis Napoleon, the astute ruler of France, had begun to curb,  step by step, the fierce revolutionists, much to their dis- gust, as it placed them in imminent danger of the Con- ciergerie, a lawyer of Louisianna commenced a cxrres- pondence with the young Frenchman regarding the large   The Diamond  Cross.      7 estate which had been left by an uncle, the only brother of his deceased mother. This fortunate circumstance took him away from the dangers as well as the fascina- tions of the gay capital. Although the prospect before him appeared bright and decked with rosy hues as regards the fortune'le was soon to possess, his actual situation was rather a dreary one. He had never left his beloved country before, and it was his first voyage on the ocean. He knew no one on board the ship till he -met Mosely, spoke but a few words of English, and was going to a strange land. He naturally felt lonesome amid the " wilderness of waters," when the faces of those he saw and' the language he heard spoken were unknown to him. After the ship had been under way several days, and sea sickness began to wear off, the passengers, one by one, left their cabins to promenade the deck ; for Boreas, who delights to sport in different moods with those who live or travel on the water, is particularly capricious on the Atlan- tic, sometimes blowing softly till the deck is crowded, so that we wonder whence so many people come, and are as- tonished at the accommodating capacity of the vessel; then blowing boisterously, driving all below and leaving an unpeopled waste above. Most persons may remember having seen the god of winds represented by certain old, quaint, and fanciful artists with his mouth'full of and cheeks distended' by the stormy elements;--and we may imagine the malicious satisfaction he' feels at the havoc he makes"; yet even he is touched at other times " with the feelings of our infirmities," and -"blows soft and still." Mosely had often witnessed his freaks on the ocean, and he delighted in promenading the deck alone, inspired by a and mingling his soul's inspirations with the roar of the elements, or, when the soft breeze came he enjoyed in calm contemplation the vast expanse of waters, the illimitable heavens and the wonderful works and benignity of the   8        The Diamond Cross. Creator. He was quite social, however, and enjoyed the society of intelligent and refined people. This quality of sociability, both in him and Lanabere, naturally attracted them to each other. Although the characters of these two gentlemen were dissimilar in some respets' theyqre not without conge- niality; and therefore the acquaintance formed then ripen- ed in the course of time, through personal intercourse, into  intimacy.               .  Lanabere's good fortune in having a large plantatation with several hundre)d negroes left him was not without al- loy. There was r'condition to the bequest that the-etate should remain unchanged 'as regarded the negroes; that they should neither be sold nor made free. The money left by the will was more than sufficient to pay all liabili- ties and legacies, and was assigned to that purpose with- out touching the real estate or slaves. Now, Lanabere, as has been remarked, received his po- litical education among the ultra republicans, socialists, and communists of Paris. He belonged to the - school of the former, and marched under the banner of "Liberth, Egaite, Fraternit." If he did not go so far as- the com- munists, to declair all " property a thief, " he was as level- ling in his views as Prudhon or Louis Blanc. He believed slavery to be a crime, and the slaveholder little less, if any- thing less, than a criminal. Not that he had seen negro slavery in existence, or knew aught about the working of that institution, or the condition of the slaves; he did not care or think it necessary to inquire about that; it was suffi- cient that, according to his creed, it ,was wrong in princi- ple and a crime. He was an enthusiastic theorist, and be- lieved in the universal freedom and equality of all races of men. Had he been avericious, or had his conscience been as flexible as that of many of the radical theosists of both his oWn country and the United States, his views and feelings   The Diamond Cross.       9 would have been changed or greatly modified by the pros- pect of owning several hundred negroes. But he 'was un- selfish; young, generous, honest and enthusiastic: and his political and socialist theories were, in his mind, princi- ples, and jndeed more like a religion to him than Christi- anity. He was much distressed with anxious thoughts, consequently; about the negro property. By the terms of will he could not possess the estate without owning the ne- groes; and'if he should refuse to be a slaveowner, he must renounce all his interest in the estate. This was the dilem- ma, and there was no way of escaping or getting round it. The will of his uncle was plain, and framed carefully, and no doiuht purposely, to, avoid any question on that point. Could he, a poor, ambitious man, renounce property worth half a million dollars at least, when within his grasp? Couldche, the ardent, honest champion of the freedom and equality of all men, black and white, become a slaveowner? He had not decided; he was perplexed : he was going to see if there could be any escape from the dilemma. Added to all this there was the regret he felt at leaving Paris, that Mecca of all Frenchman, and its fascinations, to take up his residence among strangers, whose language even he could not speak. He knew no one in the United States, had no' relatives there, and the only reference he, had was to the lawyer in Louisiana who had written to him when he sent him a copy of the will. It was natural, un- der these circumstances, that he was troubled, felt lone- some and sighed for the gay and beautiful city he had liv- ed in for four years, and which he had previously chosen@ for his home. Another circumstance which gave him a great deal of thought was the mystery connected with his uncle's name, and his, settlement in Louisiana. Mr. Bouverie was his mother's only brother, and his mother's maiden name was Mercier. He knew they had the same father, and had heard that his uncle corresponded with his mother in the   as{@-* *{ U&VIw f& V, r iA*jj a proper name of Mecier while he was a resident of New York, though he had lived twenty years in Louisiana under the name of Bouverie. The uncle left France before his sister was married, and neither Lanabere or his father ever saw him, and only-heard of him, of his residence in Amer- ica, and of his character and habits, from Mrs. Lanabere. Mr. Bouverie used to write to his sister occasionally, but years would pass sometimes without any correspondence; arfid when his sister died the family did not hear from him again. For five years-that is, from the time of the death of Mrs. Lanabere to the death of Bouverie-they had not heard of him, and hardly expected to hear again. Lana- bere was surprised, therefore, on receiving the communica- tion announcing his uncle's death, and that he had been made heir to the estate. The history of Mr. Bouverie, after he left France for America, was involved in much mystery. He lived ten years in New York, where he acquired a fortune. During this period he did not write to Mrs. Lanabere frequently. The last letter she received from him from that city informed her that he was about to marry, that, in fact, in the course of a few days he would be a husband. This letter was written in his accustomed laconic style, and did not give the name of his intended bride, or say anytahing about her family or position. Years elapsed after this before Mrs. Lahabere heard from or of her brother again, much to hanl astonishment and grief, for he was her only brother, and she dearly loved him. She could excuse his eccentricities, but her feelings were wounded at such apparent neglect. She received no information of the wedding, nor did. she know her brother's place of residence. She wrote again and again, but in vain; no answer came to her letters. After seven years of silence Mr. Bouverip wroteto Mrs. Lanabere from Louisiana, informing her of his change of residence, and that his name was no longer Mercier, but Bouverie. He gave no explanation of the motives that in-   The Diamond Cross. ,  duced-him to make this change, merely saying that. cir- cumstances of a most painful nature Were the cause, and that he Wished both his change of name and place of resi- dence to remain a secret, except to the members of his sister's family. He made no allusion to the letter he wrote' seven years before from New York, in which he an- nounced with joy his approaching marriage, but said he was living a bachelor, and should never marry. All in- quiries made by Mrs. Lanabere were unavailing, and she ceased to probe his secret. It was not known to her even in what part of Louisiana he -lived. Her letters were ad- dressed to New Orleans, and his bore the postmark of that city, but she had been informed he did not live there. He appeared to be very careful in' guarding his incognito. Nor did she know in what business he was engaged, if in any. She and her family had received intimations that lihe was rich, and fiat at his death they might receive the property. No sanguine expectations wese indulged by them, however, as Mr. Bouverie was regarded an eccen- tric and mysterious man, who might, in capricious mood, change his purpose, if he ever had one, of leaving them his estate; and when he ceased to correspond with the family after the-death of his sister they no longer expected to in- herit his fortune. The announcement of the entire estate having been left to the nephew, Emile Lanabere, was, sub- sequently, a sudden and agreeable surprise. How conflicting were the emotions, then, with which Lanabere crossed the Atlantic! And no feeling was stronger, perhaps, than that of regret at leaving France, his beloved country. Still he found some relief to this in his enthusiastic admiration of the grand republic and mag- nificent country to which he was going. He had, it is true, but crude ideas of the institutions or people of the United States, and these had been formed from reading the mis- cellaneous writings of Europeans on America, which were not generally profound or reliable; yet he understood suf-   12   '-\    i7te Diamond Cross. ficiently the grea features of liberty and political equality that formed the foundation of the gover!nent to excite his admiration.   Disgusted with monarchical institutions, and with the failure of the republicans of Europe, particularly in his own - country, to reap the fruit of their revolutions by establish- ing a republican government, he looked to the United States as the refuge of oppressed people and the hope of the world. Like almost all Europeans who came to siettle in this country, he believed the successful example of the great transatlantic republic and its wonderful growing s power would be instrumental, at no distant day, in the po- litical regeneration of Europe. He dreamed of returning even some day, with ripe experience, to aid the movement. There was but one blot, in his opinion, on this fair and great country, and that was negro slavery. He consoled himself with the thought, however, that by " the progress of ideas " or " by the march of civilization, " slavery would be extinguished. Hence he looked upon the United States as destined to perform a magnificent role in the history of nations; and this historic and national grandeur, under the name of a republic, was fascinating to his imagination apart from the sober practical questions of social or do- mestic well being. With such views and feelings he ap- proached his future home in, the New World.'   The Diamond Cross.    '   13 * ,       ,  A CHAPTER II. THE inhabitants of a small community form a minia- - ture tableau of those of larger ones, in the general outlines of human nature; and a passenger %hip is like a country village, in exhibiting the foibles, vices, absurdities, and virtues of people; only that those on board are more closely observed by each other in consequence of being crowded together, and isolated from the rest of the world for the time being. Every one is scanned by his neighbors ; the personal appearance, dress, manners, and the history, as far ,as it can be investigated, of each are scrutinized. The tediousness of a voyage and the limited number of objects to engage the minl are favorable to this inquisitive and meddling disposition. A person has only to appear singu- lar or affect a mysterious bearing to be the cynosure of all eyes. Should any one skilfully sport with the curiosity and gossiping propensities of the floating . denizens he may be- come as great a hero as he could desire. Mosely and Lanabere, as has been observed, attracted the attention of their fellow passengers from the time they were first seen together, and particularly of Mrs. Risley, after she hmad heard about the Frenchman's large fortune. The remarks she made to her daughter about these gen- tlemen, though uttered in a subdued voice, were sufficiently loud to be heard. Mosely, who understood human nature well, smiled as if he thought they were not intended for the young lady only. When no one else was near he told La- nabere that the object of his voyage to Armierica had been discovered, their conversation having been overheard; that his acrquintance would be eagerly sought, and that lhe   T4       The Diamond Cross. might expect to become the lion of the company for the rest of the voyage. As there was no motive to conceal or reveal the fact as to Lanabere's fortune, these gentlemen rather enjoyed the prospect of seeing the wealth-worship and vanity of soume of their fellow passengers displayed. Mosely, who had some little mischief in his nature, and who delighted in de- veloping peculiarities of character, saw the opportunity for bringing out prominently the traits of those on board. He advised Lanabere accordingly not to be particular in the details of his business, but to maintain a proper reserve, when probed upon that subject, for in that way the curi- osity of his questioners would, be intensified and their re- spect for him increased. Mosely felt assured that the probing process would not be long delayed, and that Lana- here's good fortune would soon become' greatly magnified, his hundreds of thousands growing to millions in the gos- siping reports that would be circulated. Neither one nor the other had any intention or disposition to deceive any of the vain, prying people, and thought only of deriving some amusement from their weaknesses.     A free and easy way of making acquaintances and of -l'whing introductions are features of American life. No- where in the world, perhaps, is this carried so far as it is here; and a freedom of manner which would be considered elsewhere as inquisitive or intrusiveness is tolerated. This remark is more applicable, however, to the people of the Eastern and Western States than to those of the Central States, while Southerners usually are more reserved. Such' a custom would be very inconvenient in Europe or in other countries of Europe where -there is so much class distinc- tion; but little trouble or evil follows from it here, and it, may be-said to constitute an agreeable characteristic of American life, notwithstanding occasional acts of rudeness. But a greater freedom of manner and intercourse is allow- ed on board ship than elsewhere. This arises from people e      .          or-    -    a    The Diamzond Cross.      IE  being in close contact with each other and forming .a limited community. The barriers raised by the conven- tionalities of society in large cities, which are like the stone walls that divide the'inhabitants, are broken' down. One day as, Mosely and Lanabere were conversing together on deck one of the passengers, a tall, lank, sharp- featured man,. about forty years of age, apparently, came up and with a self-possesed, nonchalant air, introduced himself, as if it were perfectly right he should do so, and that these gentlemen ought to be grati- fied at such an adt of amiability on his part. He at- tempted to be polite and graceful, putting on his best be- havior, evidently, in order to make an impression, but neither nature nor art had bestowed upon him that suavi- ter in modo which is the first element of politeness, nor could all the masters of dancing and attitude in France have given grace to his awkward figure. His feet, legs, arms, and hands were long and large, and hung loosely on a stooping, angular frame, and his neck had the appear- ance of having grown too far out of his shoulders before his head was put on. He had a small, keen,and restless eye, which indicated some intelligence or smartness, and a good deal of cunning. His hair was cut short, he wore no beard, and from his appearance throughout, as well as from his methodical, and pedantic manner of speaking, the im- pression was created that he was a New England school teacher, or a professor in a academy. Trhis was Mr. Sel-. man, who was mentioned in the conversation of Mrs. Risley, referred to before. Immediately after introducing himself, Mr. Selman in- troduced a friend/who was near, and who appeared to, be there for the purpose-Mr. Augustus White, a youig gen- tleman, who, in personal appearance, in character, and in almost every- respect, except in having a large amount- of assumption, was a contrast to his companion. He was small and slight made, had diminutive features and a '  r    /   i6       The Diamon. Cross. turned up nose that expressed plenty of conceit, had light sandy hair, which he wore long, and he carried a mustache and imperial of the smallest dimensions. In dress he affected the latest style of fashion, and in his tout ensemble looked like a conceited exquisite of litile brains. Mr. Selman sloke for himself and Mr. White in broken French, though the latter would break in frequently with a melange of English and French to show how much he knew. It was evident that the foreign vocabulary of both soon became exhausted in spite of their assertions that they understood French well and only failed to remember the words from want of practice in 'conversation. From the manner in which these persons conducted themselves. towards each other, a quasi obsequiousness on the part of orne and a familiar assurance on the part of the other, it appeared that they stood in the relation of a mentor and a nabob, the first finding intelligence to guide them and the latter money to pay their way. After Mr. Selman had opened the way for conversation and congratulated himself and his friend in making the ac- quaintance of Mosely and Lanabere, he commenced a siege of inquiries and an attack of personal communica- tions. "Were you long in Europe?" he asked Mosely. "I was there four years," that gentleman replied. "Then " added Mr. Selman. " you were there as many years as we' were months. But, sir, we made the most of our time; we made the tour of Europe. We stw all that was to be seen in London and Paris, and had a sight of Queen Victoria and Louis Napoleon. In six weeks we visited Milan, Rome, Naples, Ven/ice, Vienna, Munich, Berlin, Brussels, and were back again in Paris. ' That is what I call traveling," chimed in Mr. White, putting an emphasis on the word traveling, and smiling triumphantly at the feat they had accomplished. "There are not many men, I guess, who could have done as much   K    AThe Diamond Cross.       17 in that time; no, not even Americans, who are the fastest people in the world. Then, sir, we expect to make our tra- vels profitable to ourselves and useful to the world. We have made notes of everything and intend to publish a book. Having the materials, why should we not have the fame and profit? We must hurry it out, too, for the age is so fast in intellectual movements that some one else may get ahead of us." He said this with pride and enthusiasm dand with a re- freshing sort of naivet6, as having no doubt of his own abil- ities, and as if a book on the " tour of Europe " was new and striking thing. He felt that he should gather unfading laurelS as an author, and he hinted that he and Mrs. Sel- man might travel in the Southern States, where they had not yet been, after the "Tour of Europe" should be out, to enlighted the world&on the domestic institutions and na- ture of that part of the- United States, intimating at -the same time that, as he understood Mr. Mosely was fromn the South, he should be glad to receive any information or let- ters of. introduction to facilitate that object. In this manner these two persons appropriated the time, talking of themselves, their doings and their plans, and oc- casionally probing Mosely and Lanabere to find out- their history, business and purposes, as freely as if they had been acquainted with these gentlemen a long time and intimate- ly. Lanabere understood only a part of what was said, but when Mosely informied him afterward, with some comments on the character of their new acquaintaces, he was greatly amused. "These are singular individuals," he said. "What au- dacity! what self confidence! This young man, who does not know, probably, the first lesson in literature, presumes to write a book on Europe. After a rapid/journey -of a few weeks to publish a work as a tourist! Is this a sample on your countrymen, Mr. Mosely?" Mosely assured him that this was not extraordinary   that these persons were types of a large class of his coun- trymen, and that to "go ahead" and not to be appalled or checked by any obstacles is a prominent characteristic of Americans. "Why, sir," he said, "there is not any thing my countrymen, particulary New Englanders, will not un- dertake. A doctor, if he fail in the profession of medicine or it be not profitable, will take to law or divinity as read-i ily as an amphibious animal will change from land to wa- ter. He will be anything you want him to .be at a few hours' notice. I should not be surprised if these gentle- men propose, within twenty-four hours, to become your attorneys and agents, though neither may know anything of law, to arrangeand"take charge of your affairs in Louis- iana.   " "A very remarkable people," was the only response La- nabere quietly made, as he appeared to be studying deeply these phases, of the new society he was about to enter. Mosely remarked that he thought the younger man was the patron of the elder, though they associated as friends, which was not strange in America where class distinction was not observed as in Europe, for there was a degree of as- sumption in the former and a deferential manner in the lat- ter which showed their relation to each other. One was the child of fortune, and the other a pedantic drudge who disposed of his acquirements for a genteel existence, The elder was to get up the " Tour of Europe," and the young- er was to be honored as the author. The sfiewdness, and calculating cunning in Selman's expression created a suspi- cion that he had some hidden or ulterior object in submit- ting to be the instrument of White's vanity. Very soon the greater part of those on board were intro- duced to Mosely and Lanabere by Selmam, who had made himself acquainted with nearly all the passengers prevous- ly.  Among these were the mother and daughter already mentioned, Mrs. and Miss Risley, of New York. Their introduction was more formal than that of the others, as if    The Diamond Cross.       19 Selman, who was master of ceremonies, wished to distin- guish them from the rest. This motive was apparent shortly afterward when he informed Mosely in a low voice, with his mouth bent down to that gentlemains ear, that "they belonged to the first circle of New York society l' Mrs. Risley followed up the introduction by sometrite observation on the disagreeableness of a sea voyage, and on the pleasure of meeting good society under such cir- cumstances. Most people, she said, were so vulgar and pretending that it was a relief to meet with accomplished gentlemen. She could not associate with everybody, and was select ins her acquaintances; and as to her daughter, Gertrude, she was so refined she would not endure the least appearance of vutgarity or common people. Though she loved her country she must say that the social inter- course of different classes in America was too free, and so- ciety too easy of access. She preferred the customs of Europe in this respedt, which were marked by more form and reserve. She had few acquaintances on board; none, she might say, except Mr. Selman, who was a very respect- able gentleman and a distinguished, learned professor, and Mr. White, his friend, who was rich, highly educated and about to become an author. She had remarked to Ger- trude that Mr. Lanabere and Mosely were evidently gen- tlemen of good standing, who did not mix with the crowd, and who would be an agreeable acquisition to their set. Mosely acknowledged the compliment, and said he would endeavor to improve the opportunity her courtesy afforded; and added that he and Mr, Lanabere, too, were strangers to each other till they had -been brought together by accident on the voyage, a circumstance which much gratified him, as he found that gentleman highly cultivated and agreeable. "He must be- a charming - man, as I said to Gertrude," Mrs. Risley remarked. "His manners are so elegant, so French; and I hear he has come into possession of a   large estate in the United States and is go g to reside there. Has he any acquaintances in America? Does he speak English? I suppose he will stay in New York a few days, at least. We should be happy to see him and vou at our residence in New York. As he is a stranger we should take pleasure in making his visit agreeable, and we know everybody who is worth knowing in the city. Ger- trude speaks- French well, for she has been two years at school in France for the purpose of learning the language thoroughly, and would be delighted in the conversation of- such a refined gentleman." In this manner the mother continued with the greatest volubility to pour out her questions about Mr. Lanabere, and her remarks about her daughter and herself, while Miss Risley and that gentleman were conversing apart. Thus the  acquaintance Mrs. Risley so much desired between the wealthy Parisian and her daughter com- menced. No expense- had been' spared in the education of Miss Risley. After going through as thorough a course as is usual for American ladies at home, she was sent to France under the guardianship of a friend, to finish there. She had spent the allotted time of two years profitably, and was now returning to make her debut in the fashionable world of New York. Though she was of an ardent nature, and her mind naturally imbued with the romance of youth, she had been schooled by her mother and through hermassociatioln in life, from her earliest years, to regard the acme ot earthly bliss to consist"' in having a magnificent establish- ment in the city, with wealth enough to attract attention and to excite envy. She had been taught to look to mar- riage with a rich man as her proper destiny. In-her own mind she connected the sentiment of love with such a for- tunate lot, foir, as was remarked, she was in her nature" ardent and inclined to be romantic. But her training and her associations were such that she was not likely to give   1:           The Diamond Cross.       2I much latitude to her imagination and feelings where it might not be convenient to do so, however elegant and fascinating a suitor might be. She looked forward, there- fore, to her approaching entry to society with pride and joyous anticipation. Mrs. Risley who had not in her youthful days the sam, advantages of education and wealth as her daughter, and who had been brought into fashionable life since her mar- riage, loved to rival her richer neighbors in style of living. Such an important event as the approaching debut of her daughter had occupied- her thoughts very much, and she had made great preparations at home and costly purchases abroad for the occasion. Rich jewelry and expensive fash- ionable dresses were purchased with a lavish purse. Fully sensible of the beauty and fine figure of her daughter, and doubted not that she would become the reigning belle of New York, the mother remarked, with pride, that "Ger- trude would make a sensation." Mrs. Risley thought there was nothing meaner than poverty, except the exhibi- tion of it, and it was her policy as well as pride to make a display of wealth. It was said by some of her envious and scandalizing neighbors that, having been poor, she was quite capable of judging the effect poverty or the appear- ance of it produced. A debutante of seventeen or eighteen was more the fash- ion in New York, where people live fast and begin life early, than elsewhare; but Miss Risley's appearance in soci- ety was defered till she was twenty, in consequence of hav- ing been at school abroad, and because her mother wished to have her fully prepared to secure the prize of her ambi- tion before commencing the race. She was desirous that her daughter should not wear out the impression, the eclat of her advent to society was expected to make, before ob- taining a rich husband. And as this young lady had been bought up in the lap of luxury, and expecting to live in a- bundance always, she had the same views as her mother re-   lative to marriage. There was this difference, however, between them, the mother was vain, pretending and intri- guing, with a mixture of vulgarity and haughtiness in her manner that showed the parvenue, while the daughter had an air of pride and independence like one who had 'never known poverty. Then, the mirror had told Miss. Risley, doubtless, that she had the power to captivate,; for she was more than pret- ty, though hers was a style of beauty more likely to strike the fancy than to win the heart. Her form was graceful, well developed, and what is termed stylish; her features ,were regular and symmetrical, making her look younger even than she was; her eyes were dark and large, but more brilliant than soft; her mouth was voluptuous, and a profusion of rich brown hair crowned a finely formed head. Indeed, her tout ensemble was striking, and calculated to attra& the attention and elicit the admiration of any one. Mr. Risley was a Wall street speculater, who operated in stocks, mines, patents, lands, town lots and various other things. He came from the Eastern States, where he had " failed in business several times, to New York, deeming Bos- ton and other places in New England too slow and too -limited for the exercise of his talents and ambition. He had experienced several--ups and downs in New York, hav- ing been rich and bankrupt several times. Still the out- side world saw no change in-his manner, expenditures, or operations, as he had the same independent bearing and lived in the same magnificent style whether insolvent or not. He was a bold, shrewd and active man, who might have been seen any day on Wall street, hurrying ;along at the rate of five miles an hour, with an overstrained intensity beaming in his eyes and exhibited in every muscle of his body, as if the fate of an empire depended on his move- ments; or-he might have been seen frequently at the ho- tels in the evening mingling with the " bulls and biears" that usually assembled there. H was what is called a O  I   The Diamond Crosso        23 "'wiry man," tough) and elastic in body and mind. His credit did not seem to suffer much by his failures, for the people of New York had great admiration for an enterpris- ing man' believing such a one to- be like- a cat, which, when thrown down from the greatest height, lights on its feet. At the time his daughter was returning home he had the reputation of bding rich again, having made a fortune in some speculations in coal lands, and in a certain kind of marl, which, through the ingenious testimonials of celebra- ted chemists, he had made people believe was guano. With this last success he settled some property on his fam- ily, in order that they might continue in there mode of life, should his future operations be unsuccessful. Mrs. Risley never had any misgivings about her hus- band's ability to " raise money " when wanted, for she had been accustomed to hear him speak of hundreds of thous- ands as coolly as other people spoke of hundreds, and she used her means accordingly, gratifying her tast{ for extra- vagance in costly dresses and. jewelry, and in all the rich surroundings of the most showy fashions of New York and Paris. She had the- most conspicuous livery for her ser- vants, and an elaborate coat of arms on her carriage. Having failed to trace the genealogy of the family of her husband or her own, she engaged the services of an ingen- ious artist -to invent this coat of arms. Although she was elevated above her former position, and that of her family as far as she knew anything about, she had not the courage to say as a great man once said of himself, that, she was " the first of the family." She could not trace her family, like -the old Knickerbockers of New York, to the original ancestral sausage makers and shoemakers, and, therefore, was not admitted into that exclusive, aristocratic set. Admiring what she called " the proper distinctions in society," and;-preferring Europe to America in that respect, she said she did&,rnot care to mix with these Dutch families; for they were not the reme de la creme, and her              .,.   =X-r      1 {;(G '& j^^rtUtCv fi ct8j-j-. own circle wa's the most refined and elegant of any in the city. This subject and her daughter were the constant themes of her conversation, with which she made an effor-t to entertain her new acquaintances.  As the vessel neared the American coast Mrs.Risley. and Mr. -Selman were assiduous in their attentions to La-. nabere and Mosely, especially to the former, who had been magnified by them and the passengers generally into a millionaire. Selman had studied the weak points of Lanabere's character, and was prepared to profit by them if possible. He saw that the foreigner was generous minded, impulsive, inexperienced in business, confiding, and sorely perplexed about the slave property left him. He made up his mind, -as it afterward appeared, to connedt himself, in- some way or other, with the affairs of the fortunate Frenchman. He 1dl not like the growing intimacy between Lanabere and Mosely, or the deference which the former seemed to pay to the superior intelligence of the latter, thinking this might be an obstacle in the way of his designs. But he consoled himself with the thought that Mosely was not the sort of man to trouble himself with Lanabere's business; and then, he had heard that these gentlemen would sepa- rate on their arrival at New York, the one to remain a few days at least, to see something of the metropolis of America before-starting for Louisiana, and the other to go to Wash- ingtqn with despatches for the government. Though Sel- man did not make any proposition to Lanabere while on -board, he intimated several times that he had studied law, and could be of great service in arranging the affairs of l that gentleman, as well as an agreeable and useful com- panion to him on his journey to thd South. While Seln-fn held back from mentioning his purpose till a fit opportunity should occur, the intriguing Mrs. Ris- ley was succeeding in her process of ensnaring Lanabere. Her daughter not unwillingly followed the instructions   AIs. 2'he Diamond Cross.               25 she had received to make herself "very agreeable," and. -the consequence was that the handsome Gertrude, and the rich Parisian were seen frequently together on deck and in the saloon during the last days of the voyage. There was much in Lanabere's situation, personal appearance, man- ners and brilliant conversation to fascinate the imagination, "if not to touch the heart, of a young lady fresh from school, and from studying French and French subjects;, as there was a great deal in the personal beauty and agreeable man- ners of Miss Risley to captivate him. It, was quite nat- ural, therefore, that they should be interested with each other, apart from calculations of convenience or consequen- ces. At daybreak on. the twelfth day of the-voyage a cry of "and on the starboard " was heard. It was Long Island. A few hours would bring them to the great commercial city. The passengers soon found themselves grouped; to- gether on deck. They vied with each other in expressions of admiration of the beautiful scenery and exciting mov- ing panorama around them, as they entered the Narrows and steamed up the bay. The ladies, particularly, were delighted; " there was nothing in the world to compare with it," they said!; and, indeed, there was not. It was a bright, clear and balmy morning in spring. Every headland and little cape stogd out in bold relief, and each bay and shore was distinctly defined. The air was transparent, and the y as blue as in Italy or the tro- pics. Staten Island, with its numerous handsome villas and beautiful shrubberies and gardens, was on the left, and Long Island on the right, while ahead was New Jersey, Core town after town studded the plain which rose grad- ually in perspective to where the distant hills touched the horizen.       - As the vessel turned to head up the harbor there lay New York, with the Hudson on one side and the -East river on the other, gently rising from the bay in a wedge-    25       The Di'amtond Cross. like shape, like Venice from the sea. Countless 'spires and prominent buildings were seen far as the eye could reach, and a forest of masts extended along the wharv'es on each side far up the rivers. A light breeze set in mco tibn hundreds of vessels, the white sails of which glisten- ed in the sun, while the water was kept in constant agita- tion, like a caldron, by the numerous steamboats that mov-. ed about, passing and repassing and revelling in their pro- per element like things of life. Brooklyn, a great city in itself, across the East river, and Jersey City, across the Hudson, lay like two vast suburbs to the mighty commercial metropolis. Where, a short time ago, there was but a collection of fishermen's huts, a million of inhabitants are found. All the 'continent was tributary to the proud city; she reached out her arms and gathered the wealth of the South, North, East and West; the flags of every nation were seen in her harbor, and hers was the mart of twenty-eight millions of people at home. Well might Lanabere, who had not dreamed of such a scene, exclaim in astonishment, in subdued tones, as in a profound reverie and unconscious of the presence of any one. "What a sight'! What a grand country! What a people!"  Arriving at the place of anchorage the pilot shouted in stentorian oice, "Let go ." when dowk fell the weighty anchor, the rattling chain shaking every timber of the ship, as each heart vibrated with joy in being safe at home. The passengers took a hasty farewell of each other, amid the Babel of noises that stunned their ears and congratulations oftreunited friends; and Mosely, who left for Washington immediately, bade adieu to his new and agreeable ac- quaintance. *        I,   T'he Diamond Cross,       27 CHAPTER    IITI. When Lanabere left Paris he had not determined what o * he would do about accepting the negro property left him by his uncle, but held that matter for future decision, hoping that some way might be found by which he could own the other part of the estate without being a slave owner. He hoped this even against the plain and explicit language of the will. There was a continual struggle in his mind between principle and the desire to posses a valuable estate. He feared being brought to decide this perplexing question, and therefore could be more easily in- duced to linger on his journey. He had not contemplated staying at any place short of Louisiana, except for a few days, to make traveling agreeable; but as he had formed no plan for the future, he was not disinclined to yield to the, inducements held out by his new acquaintances to see something of the commercial metropolis of the United States before going to the far South. Mrs. and Miss Ris- ley promised him much pleasure in New York. The at- tractions of Miss Risley had no little influence in holding him near her, while at the same time his inquiring and in- telligent mind prompted the'desire to see and learn some- thing of the people in the great Northern city. He be- came more contented to delay the journey, too, after in- forming the lawyer in Louisiana who had charge of his business that he had arrived in America and that it was his purpose to remain a few weeks at the North. Lanabere had been in New York but a few days when he became the guest of the Risley family. Mr. Risley fell   in with the wishes and views of his wife in cultivating the acquaintance of the rich foreigner, and pressed that gentle- man to make their house his home while in the city. Lanabere accepted the invitation because the thought of enjoying the society of the fascinating Miss Risley was gratifying, and because he expected to see and learn much of New York under the guidance of these people. None of the family speaking French but the daughter, she was interpreter in all conversations, and became from necessity as wel as from inclination the chief companion of their visitor; but every member of the family was "-  assiduous in studying his convenience and pleasure. She rode, walked and read with him, and accompanied him tp the opera andGother places of amusement. This, though agreeable to him, appeared strange at first, for young un- married ladies in his own countryt are attended by a matron or some relative when with single gentlemen. Still he had the good sense not to mistunderstand this freedom of intercourse, but to attribute it to the custom of the country. And, then, Mr. Selman, who was a frequent visitor at the house studiously took every opportunity of- explaining, as far as he knew, the difference in the habits of the French and Americans. Parties were given to honor him, and he was entertained by the acquaintances of the 'amily. In fact, he was well lionized in the manner peculiar to the American people. A rich or distinguished foreigner, never failed in creating a sensation among the class to which th Risley family be- longed. The United States was the paradise of refugee  counts, prospective heirs, moustached exquisities, egotisti- cal travellers and literary celebrities. Nothing put the fashionable world in such a flutter as these. But Lana- bere was not an adventurer, and if the admiring and excit- able people by whbm he was surrounded would make him a great millionaire in spite of himself he could not be blamed.  Nevertheless he found this society not congenial b   The Diamond Cross,        29 and he became wearied by the excess of -politeness with which he was overwhelmed. During the short time he was in New York it was not possible to see society in all its various phases, but his quick perception detected some of its characteristic fea- tures. He was amused at the vahity and the self-glorify- ing trait of the excitement loving people, who manufac-  tured into notabilities and entertained with ostentatious display such titled foreigners and pretenders as were almost as numerous and common in Paris as the gens d 'armnes. He saw that all this pretended deference to dis- tinftion or merit was not to honor the recipients of their attyetions so much as to glorify and bring themselves into notice. Their conduct was like that of people new in the station they occupy, who, feeling conscious of their posi- tion, make great efforts to disuse it. He was impressed with the quick intelligence, shrewdness and intense busi- ness habits of Americans in all the ordinary matters of life, while he saw they were in some respects superficial, loved money as the greatest good, and did not have so much of the established taste found in the chief cities of Europe.  At the. time he was in New York the city was in the full tide of prosperity. The gold mines of California had been discovered a few years before, and the precious metal was poured into Wall street at the rate of forty or fifty millions of dollars a year. jvery branch of industry and an un- told number of speculations were stimulated. All seem- ed to have plenty of money; the stores were full of the richest goods; magnificent hotels, banks, dwellings and business houses were springing up in every part as if by magic; theatres and other- places of amusement, in great number, were nightly crowded; the city was filled with strangers from every State of the Union and fri'n almost every country on the globe, and the streets were thronged with people in the richest dresses and glittering with jewelry. '--    3       The Diamond Cross. Ite was astonished at the display of wealth and luxury  in this modern city, and thought that it might be said to ri- val Paris; that in some respects it was more gay and lux- urious than the fashionable capital of Europe ; and, that it resembled that place, too, in its cosmopolitan character, for he saw, as he promenaded Broadway, the features of nearly every race and nation, and heard a Babel of langua- ges spoken. Yet his mind was dazzled more than impress- ed with the transatlantic metropolis; for it lacked the no- ble structures, and antique monuments of centuries of his- toric greatness, the splendid architecture, the beautiful works of art and the solid impress of time of European ci- ties. Ianabere soon became the prey of meddlesome and de- signing people who surrounded him, who probed his affairs, disposition and sentiments to the bottom, and were inces- sant in volunteering their opinions and advice. These peo- ple discussed with him and among themselves his business, particularly the delicate question of the slave property, with the deepest interest, as if they were discussing their own proper affairs. One advised a certain course, and an- other a different, until he became more befogged than ever. The two persons who were most afficious were Mr. Risley and Mr. Selman, and both evidently from a similar mo- tive. Mr. Ricley said he did not think Mr. Lanabere should be squeamish about possessing the slave property. While he would not invest money in such property, and could not say that on principle he approved of the institution of sla- very, he thought slave labor was best for the Southern States, and of great value to the world. He could not see how cotton 'could be cultivated profitably, if at all, as an article of commerce, without that labor. This important staple was the nucleus of the trade of the world, and nothing had contributed so much to the wealth, growth and power of the United States. The negro had been im- Q   She Diamond Cross.       31 proved and converted from a useless and barbarous savage to a useful man, to Christianity and to a degree-of civiliza- tion under domestic Slavery in America. Besides, he added, Mr. Lanabere was not responsible for the existence of that institution, and was -not required to divest himself of his valuable estate, if even he had the power, for the sake of an abstract principle. And not having the power to free the slaves his uncle left they must remain is their present condition, and with a worse master, perhaps, shfould he decline to own them. Then, he need not live in Louisiana, but might have a competent manager over the estate, and live in New York. Mr. Risley spoke of the matter as a man of business, and did not pretend to know or care'about the question of slavery politically or socially considered, or the ethnology of the negro race. All the theories of abolitionists and pro-slavery advocates, and a11 the fine drawn arguments about human equality on one hand or the facial angle and comparative length of the negro heel indicating a different race on the other, were of no consequence to him so long as slavery would be profit- able and the agitation of the subject would not interfere with business or disturb the peace of the country and the stock market. Mr. Selman took a different view of the question, and argued that slavery was a moral, social and political evil. He lost no opportunity of falling in with Lanabere's views by talking of human rights and the equality of all races. Still, while he appeared to pan&fer to the prejudices of La- nabere and delighted to exhibit what he deemed his philo sophic and humanitarian views to that gentleman, he had a mental reservation,- and discreetly left the way open for exceptional and qualifying circumstances. The education of Selman made him a weak literary  egotist, theorist and pedant. He thought he was original and a great light in the world, and he presumed to en- lighten Lanabere. He forgot, or' did not know, that the   32       The Diamhond Cross. sentiment which they held in common was derived from the same source-that the society of the Amis des oirs,\which had its birth in the great French revolution, originated the crusade against negro slavery, and that r English e an- cipationists and American abolitionists Here its offspriigs. He tid not remember, if he ever knew, that the anti-sl ery sentiment, good as it may be, was born in the blakest night of infidelity, moral turpitude, horrible despotism and fearful crimes known in- the history of the world. The French revolution, which upheaved society from its very centre, and spread its influence over the civilized world, promulgated the idea of the equality of all men, of whatever color or caste. Its influence reached America, and was the cause, probably, of tender manner in which the statesmen who made the Constitution of the United States avoided the word "slaves," and used the words "persons  held to labor" instead. The philosophy of France in the latter end of the last century and beginning of the present was the germ of all these views. After the seed ripened in that country, and had become fruitful in the horrors of San Domingo, it took root in England, and grew there rapidly, when it passed through the alembic of Quaker Christianity under Wilberforce and his coadjutors. In the excess of their zeal they ruined the most prosperous colonies and put the negroes on the road to barbarism again. It was a  strange anomaly in the history of this exotic plant, that the Christian emancipationists of Great Britain cultivated and brought to maturity what the atheis- tical and deistical revolutionists of France had sown. Although Lanabere and those Americans who were urg- ing their views and advice upon him held the same opinion that slavery was in derogation of human rights and against the laws of nature, they were not influenced altogether by the same reasons and motives. He derived his sentiments from French philosophic theories, which were deep rooted i- everywhere in Europe, and which were a creed and a prin-   t he Diamond Cross.       33 ciple with him, while their opinions had more of a political character. Selman, in conversing with Lanabere on this subject, especially in connection with the particular case of Lana- bere's slave property, never lost sight of the main object he had in view to have a hand in Frenchman's business. His principles became quite flexible, accordingly to suit the Special circumstances of the case. He intimated that this peculiar property having come to Lanabere in such an ac- cidental manner, and Lanabere not being responsible for the existence of it, nor able to emancipate the slaves, whether he divested himself of the ownership in them or not, he might conscientiously take possession, especially as the slaves might not find so good a master in any other person. It was to be regretted, he said, that Mr. Bouverie had imposed such conditions in his will, but it appeared the deceased gentleman was prejudiced in favor of the institution, as most of the slaveholders were, and might have thought he was doing the best for his slaves in keep- ing them together and attached to the estate. He agreed with Mr. Risley in the advice that'gentleman had given, that it would be better for Mr. Lanabere to leave the management of his .estate to some trustworthy and humane superintendents and thus relieve himself from the painful sight of slavery, while having at the same time the satisfac- tion to know that his slaves would be kindly treated. He added, Mr. Lanabere could live in New York or elsewhere, which would be more congenial to his tastes than burying himself on a plantation in a remote part of the country. After having made this ingenious argument, and pausing a few moments to watch the effect, he concluded by saying that, although he was opposed to slavery, seeing it existed by necessity in this case, and having a friendly regard fo Mr. Lanabere in his difficult situation, he would not object to manage the estate, and that he should have no object- tion to accompany Mr. Lanabere to Louisiana as his attorney.   34       The Diamond Cross. f The proposition of Selman did not have the immediate effect expected. Lanabere merely thanked him for his politeness and forethought, and said if he should find it necessary to accept his offer he would inform him, but that he could make no arrangements before going to Louisiana and understanding more fully the nature and situation of his property. Lanabere did not think of remaining in New York over a few days when he first landed, but the fascinating Miss Risley had influence enough to detain him longer. He had not been thinking of love, and supposed his mind was so occupied for the time being, with other- serious matters, that he was in no danger of Cupid's shafts, till he suddenly awoke, as if from a dream, to the consciousness of the charm that held him. The constant companionship of a beautiful girl, fresh, gay, and bright as a summer's morn- ing, is dangerous to an ardent, warm-hearted man, and so Lanabere found it. The frequent quiet, undisturbed parlor conversations, the daily-rides, the evening promen- ades, and the exciting balls and parties, where Miss Ris- ley was always by his side, insensibly ensnared him. When he became conscious of his condition he reproved himself for what he deemed a weakness, and resolved not to avow at that time his passion. Though he was ardent as the sun in his own native clime, he had too much pride of charac- ter, and was too sensible too make a hasty declaration at at such a time, and under the circumstances in which he w. placed. He was compelled to learn, however, not- withstanding his resolution, through the ever-officious Mr. Selman, that his attentions to Miss Risley were regarded as " very marked," and that the fashionable gossips pre- dicted a marriage.         ' In spite of the reserve Lanabere maint as to his passion he could not altogether disguise it. Women have an intuitive and perception of the existence and progress of love, and cannot be easily deceived, besides having a   :gy!      The,Diamond Cross.       35 facile and natural way of developing it. The watchful and experienced eyes Of Mrs. Risley had detected the pranks of the sly god, and her daughter saw the effeft on Lana- bere's heart. To make this more apparent and to pique Lanabere to' make a declaration Miss Risley tried a little coquetry. i The prospective author of the "Tour of Europe," Mr. White, who was 'a frequent visitor at her father's house, did not conceal his admiration for her, and aspired to be the rival of Lanabere. She did not check the advanrces of Mr. White, but appeared to take pleasure in holding the balance between the two admirers, though inclining to farr Lanabere the most. The love of admiration, pro- bably ifluenced this conduct in some degree, but the rul- ing motive was to elicit a declaration. Nor was it unlikely that she entertained some affection for such an accom- plished and agreeable gentleman as Lanabere, even while her interest, an eligible match, and being well settled in life might have been her chief objects. The disposition which Lanabere thought she exhibited -to encourage a rivalry between Mr. White and himself, or to be coquettish with one or both of them, annoyed him very' much. -He thought she ought to have discovered from his manner the secret of his heart, forgetting that ladies in the matrimonial market do not accept looks and sighs in the place of plain words. His judgment told him he had no right to expect she would be devoted to himself when not a word had passed between them with regard to their sentiments or wishes, yet he was irritated and jeal- ous. She, too, having shown him a good deal of marked politeness, and even a preference, might have felt vexed at his silence, and have resolved to punish him a little. He adhered, however, to his purpose of making no engage- ment of an important or a serious nature, though his feel- ings might prompt him to do so, before attending to his business in the South. During the last day or two of his   36   '     he Diamond Cross. visit to the family and stay in New York it was evident that Miss Risley was dissatisfied, for she became some- what cold and formal in their intercourse, and this pained him, though it did not change his determination. At last, when the hour came for his departure, he endeavored to satisfy her by promising to return as soon as possible. And, having seen as much of the transatlantic metropo- lis as he could have desired during the short time he stayed there, he bade farewell to Gertrude and the other members of the family, whose guest he had been, and pro- ceeded -to Louisiana.  I I r       w              l     Hi!        The Diamond Cross.       37 CHAPTER    IIV. LANABERE corresponded with Mosely on the way to Louisiana and- after he arrived, and from that correspond- ence the following na'rative is taken, which, as will be seen hereafter, had much to do with developing the subsequent events that will be mentioned:- When I left New York to go to New Orleans I took the route by the way of Baltimore, Wheeling and down the Ohio and Mississippi rivers, as there was no continous railroad communication between the two cities. I was in- clined to do this from having .understood this route would afford me a better opportunity to see the nature, extent and grandeur of the country than by any other way, After travelling the first night by railroad I ,saw we were approaching a mountainous country. A ridge with a dark bluish outline stretched before us at right angles with the' road, which seemed to border the valley like a vast' Chi- nese Wall. This was the eastern smur of the great chain which divides the waters of the Atlantic States from those of the valley of the Mississippi. I w as pleased to learn, when we arrived at Harper's Ferry, at the base of the Blue Ridge, that we should cross the mountains by stage, notwithstanding the inconvenience of that mode of travel- ling, for the weather was delightful and I expected to enjoy the scenery. There is nothing of the sublime grandeur of the Alps, which I have often contemplated with profound admiration, in the Alleghany Mountains, but there is much beauty and many striking views. -If I did not see such majestic snow-   capped peaks, and the black masses projecting far above the clouds, as in our European chain, there was much beauty of forms, and a surprising distinitness of outline, which greatly magnified the Alleghanies. As I was crossing all nature was full of life. The forest was grand and den'sely covered with foliage; the earth was a carpet of green; flowers of many forms and hues sprang up all around, and fesfooned the trunks and branches of the trees, regaling us with their odors, and the great variety of the colors and tints through the shadows of the forest and in the sunlight delighted the senses. At times we were in a dark valley, where a rapid, clear stream made music with the rocks, and then we were on some mountain crest, where the landscape' views were truly beautiful. Cultivated lands and long stretches of pasture alternated with the primitive forest in various shapes, some- times in the valleys and sometimes reaching up to the tops of the m6untains. Substantial houses and many cottages and huts were dotted over the landscape, the smoke from which rose lazily through the silent air. Numerous flocks of sheep and herds of cattle were scattered over the scene, browsing in the shade or basking in the sunshine, on the slopes of a hundred hills, and far as the eye could reach. This, I said, in my admiration, is an Arcadia, and here dwell peace, plenty and happiness. -As I was enjoying one of these charming views I instinc- tively turned around to express my feelings to some fellow. traveller, with whom I might exchange sentiments; if I could find one to understand me, such is the desire we have for communion with others in our more elevated pleasures. But not knowing enough of English, and find- ing no one who spoke French, I was disappointed. I longed to open my heart to some one who would recipro- cate in this enjoyment. For the first time since I left New York I realized a void in my present situation, as a stranger in a foreign country. Then I thought of Paris, '    J le ziafvmaa rvrs.      39 and the friends I fiad left there, of the business I was going. on to Louisiana,- and of mydeceased mysterious uncle, who had left me his estate. I was relieved from much of the care and annoyance of the journey by the servant I engaged to accompany ie. This man, Louis, a middle aged mulatto, had been a slave, but was made free, with his mother and the rest of the family, by the will of his deceased master. He had been raised as a body or house servant, can read and write, has travelled a good deal with different masters, has been to sea, has acquired even a smattering of French, is intel- ligent, and appears to know and to be on speaking terms with a great many gentlemen wherever he goes. He likes to live in the South, particularly in Washington, and to be the personal servant of some eminent or rich man. He seems to be pleased with his present employment, studies my wishes, and gives me information of many things on my journey; and while he is useful and respectful, he is not so obsequious as servants in Europe generally are. He has all his "papers," as he calls them, with him ; that is, his certificate of freedom and pass, which he carries for pro- tection in case of difficulty, the laws being stringent in some of the slave States with regard to free negroes enter- ing them. But he has been in all those States, under- stands what he is about, and feels safe as my servant. On arriving at Wheeling I took passage by steamboat to Louisville, understanding I should take another boat there to New Orleans. I had been told the water of the Ohio was unsually low at this time of the- year, and navigation tedious, but I did not find that to be the case. Louis said there was a " good stage of water," and we might expect a quick voyage. The high-decked, clumsy-looking boats, with double chimneys, puffing and snorting about, appeared to me strange sort of things. We have nothing like them on the Seine, or on any other river in France.( et   40       Thie Diamond Cross.  they are commodious and agreeable enough to travel on. The Ohio, I believe, has been called by one of my countrymen who travelled in the United States, La belle riviere, and it is appropriately named, its meandering course through an undulatihg country, or what is called here a broken country, forms a continuous succession of jutting capes on each side, and presents an ever changing panorama. Its banks and the valleys and sloping hills which lie behind are crowned by well cultivated fields and gardens, rich meadows and good farm houses, which are here and there interspersed with patches of uncleared forest, making an unceasing series of picturesque views. There is this remarkable feature, however, in the scenery of the Ohio, that while the nature and appearance of the country are inuch'the same for many hundred miles, the mind never tires by monotony. Each opening view seems to posses new charms, though there may not be any par- ticular distinctive features to mark it. In reality the beauties of the Ohio, though frequently repeated, burst into view so successively and charmingly, as we turn each cape on our way, that we are always pleased. Cincinnati, the "Queen City of the West," as heard it called, which lies on the right bank of the river, struck me as a populous and beautiful place. The number of steam- boats, noise of machinery, piles of merchandise and the crowds and activity of people indicate its wealth and im- portance. New York, I think, is scarcely before it in the spirit of enterprise and intense industry. It is, I learn, the largest town of the West. Louisville, where I changed to another steamboat, is on the left bank of the Ohio, a handsome and large place, and the chief city of Kentucky, but it is notvto be compared with Cincinnati in commercial importance or industrial enterprise. The ambition of Americans, and their anticipation of the grandest destiny in future, are exhibited at every turn. A   The. Diamond Cross.       4r place with one floating hotel, a variety store and two or three temporary huts, is named after one of the famous and proudest cities known in history. Cario, at the junction of the Ohio and Mississippi, might, indeed, rival in time the great city on the Nile were it not for the uncontrollable river which occasionally buries it beneath a flood. No position could be better for the-commercial emporium of these wonderful rivers and the vast productive country they   traverse. As I stood on the deck of the steamboat watching the struggle of the two rivers, as they swept along, to obtain the mastery in the stream below, the dark volume of the Mississippi driving the lighter waters of the Ohio into ed- dies like a whirlpool, as if there was a repugnance to amal- gamate, I fell into a contemplative mood, and my thoughts were carried up these mighty rivers and their hundreds of tributaries thousands of milesi to their source and down their united flood another thousand miles to where it de- bouches in the Gulf of Mexico. Here, within the lifetime of the present generation, was a wilderness. The silence of these great currents, primitive forests and interminable prairies was unbroken by the voice of civilization, and the only premonitory sounds that were heard of the approach. ing future were those of the trapper's rifle in respnse to the Indian war whoop. "Now fifteen millions of people in- habit this region and the former wilderness " blossoms as the rose." The earth teems with production and seems capable of boundless wealth ; the hun(of a hardy and in- dustrious population is everywhere heard like that of bees around a hive ; the smoke of a thousand towns and villages rises to heaven as incense of thanksgiving forthe blessings of an overflowing soil, and the rivers ,and lakes are cover- ed by countless sails and monstrous steamboats, while the iron horse puffs defiance at these as he sweeps past rival- ing them in the race of commerce. Who can imagine the furure of such a country? There    42       The Diamond Cross. may be those living who will see a hundred millions of peo- ple in the vallay of the Mississippi and its confluence. Well may Americans be proud of their country, and antic- ipate a future unparalleled in the history of nations. But the cloud of political trouble which I hear hangs over this fair land and agitates the people, does it really portend a storm that is to destroy the splendid fabric, and arrest the progress of a giant empire? Can it be the omen of a volcano, whose hidden fires will, at no distant day, upheave society and devastate the country? Should one section wish to seperate from another, where can a line of demarcation be made through their vast territories, under the ramification of so many common interests, with- out a convulsion that would startle the world? I had always been impressed with the idea of something grand in a large river, and I fully realized that grandeur as I was borne along the mighty Mississippi. I can now un- derstand why the Egyptians worshipped th3 Nile and the Hindoes worship the Ganges. CWhat are the Seine, the Loire, the Rhone, or even the Rhine, compared to the "Father of Waters?" The numerous flouting leviathans that raced along and jostled against each other, amidst the excitement and shouts of the boatmen, hurras of the passengers and hea- vy, labored breathing and puffing of the engines, afforded me a sort of perilous pleasure and amusement. Passen- gers got on and off the steamboat every few hours; but many remained on board during thevoyage. Some of the lat- ter, I was told, live on board most of their time, as in a hotel. I never saw before such a motly group of individu- als as were collected together here. Louis, who acted the part of a cicerone occasionally, made me understand as well as he could, their names. characters, business and station in life. Besides, I met with persons from New Or- leans with whom I conversed in my own language. From these I learned something of life on a Mississippi steam-   ThAg Diamond Cross.       43 boat, and some of the characteristic traits of the most remarkable of our fellow passengers. \ There were a party of fierce, adventurous looking men, armed with revolvers and bowie knives, going down to New Orleans to take the steamer to the new El Dorado on the Pacific; merchants from towns on the river and the inter- ior of the country; drummers from New York, hunting up customers and debtors; easy, dignified planters; half breed Indians, fashionably dressed citizens of New Orleans, gamblers with sinister looking faces; rough, long-haired, long-bearded hunters and settlers from Western Arkanses, and a few women, children and negro servants. Some of the passengers played at cards incessantly, one or two of whom were professional gamblers, who voyaged up and down the river for the'purpose of plying their trade. We were entertained frequently by the negroes playing and singing their favourite airs, which they did with-an ear-  nestness quite refreshing. Their voices were excellent, their untutored method surpassinly good, and they evi- dently enjoyed their music quite as much as their hearers. These negroes delighted in songs of plantation life, which are set - mostly -to the liveliest and most joyest tunes. They were literally inspired under the influence of music, and every muscle of their bodies was acutely sensible to the tunes and acted with a reponsive motion. They seem- ed to have no care, were the happiest people on board, and - abandoned themselves to amusement and joy on every occasion. When we came to the States of Mississippi and Louisi- ana the country was level and monotonous. It was laid off everywhere in large plantations, and was well cultiva- ted. The houses'were larger and further apart, showing we had passed the region of small farms and had come to that of the rich planters. Here I saw continuous succession of cotton fields in all their beauty; and I shall never forget the sight. This     "       The Diamond Cross. little plant is not only the commercial power of the world, but it is also the glory of the field. As the sun sheds its bright, warm rays over the earth my eyes were dazzled  , with the sight. The plant was in bloom and had begun to unfold its white treasure. Viewing theseplantations from - a short distance, the soft, yellowish blossom and the open- ing bolls of pure. white looked like a field of gold studdad with embossed silver, glistening under the beams of a semi tropical sun. - And this, I said to myself, is the plant that clothes the world, covers the oceans with the stils of commerce, stimulates the industry of all nations, builds great cities, sets in motion the myriads of mechanical in- ventions that vibrate through every nerve of the civilized world, and gives employment and means of existence to many millions of human beings. How much the prospes- ity and greatness of the United States owes to this little plant! What are the mines of gold and silver compared to the wealth that lies in its bolls  A ^.   The Diamond Cross.       45 CHAPTER    V. ON arriving at New Orleans I went to the St.' Charles Hotel, as directed by Mr. Ellis, the attorney of my late uncle, and one of the executors of his will. The gentle- man, with whom I had been in correspondence, having learned by my letters the time I was to leave New ,York and the route I intended to take, had kindly engagedL appartments for me, in anticipation of my arrival. I was soon comfortably located, therefore, in the mammoth hotel. My first business was to have an interview with Mr. Ellis, of whom I -knew nothing except through his letter addressed to me at Paris, briefly informing me of the death of my uncle and enclosing a copy of the will. Anxious to see the man who held in his hands the evidence of my title to my uncle's estate, I lost no 4me in informing him that I had arrived. He did not leave me long in suspense, as his card was soon after brought to my apartmeits. Mr. Ellis entered with a complacent smile and gave me a cordial greeting, with a redundancy of congratulations on my good fortune and safe arrival. He spoke French tol- erably well, though with an English accent. Looking at me earnestly and measuring my figure at a glance, he re- marked; "I see a resemblance, sir, to your uncle, both in your features and form, only he was stouter than you, and his greater age naturally making some difference. There is the same intellectual physiogonomy, the same linveaments, indicating mental activity and acute sensibility, and the saftie erect figure and proud bearing. You have reason to feel honored in having had such an uncle. He was a most kind and honorable man, and was universally respected    "    -   ie Diamond Cross. notwithstanding a certain reserve and an impenetrable sadness that, at times, made him appear unsocial and mysterious." "I believe," he continued, "you never saw your uncle. I think he told me you were not born when he left France. He had great affection for your mother, of whom he used to speak in a most loving manner. She appeared to be the only fond tie he had on earth. I was with him when he heard of her death. His mind was filled with recollections of the past ai he wept, and said : 'The last link with the home of my boyhood is broken The happy time when my dear sister and I played together, and gathered flowers on the banks of the Gardoa, comes fresh to my memory, as if it were but yesterday, leaving, with this distressing news a feeling of sadness and desolation.' Shortly after this event your uncle made his will in your favor, remarking to me, that you were, after your mother's decease, his proper heir. That will remains as it was written nearly seven years ago, except a codicil of late date, making a few leg, acies. If it be agreeable to you, we can examine the will to-morrow, when I shall explain also the nature, locality-  and value of the estate, and when I hope to have the plea-  sure to introduce my co-executor, Mr. Dubois."     After making these remarks, and conversing a short  time on my impresions of America, and other topics, Mr. Ellis left me.  Although my visitor had not a prepossessing counten-  ance, and his furtive, restless eye and nervous manner were not calculated to create a favorable impression, he awakened in me a kindly feeling, through his extreme politeness and the touching manner in which he alluded to my uncle and mother. He looked like a thorough man of business, and his conduct on our first interview accorded with his looks, which made me feel satisfied with him, so far, as one of the executors. Being alone after Mr. Ellis left, I sat down to meditate   The Diamond Cross.      47 over the extraordinary events of the last three months. But a few weeks ago I was seated in my appartment in, the Rue Vivienne composing my daily contributions to the press of Paris, against the reactionary policy of the Presi- dent of the Republic; with more probability of being ar- rested by M. Carlier and of being the occupant of a cell in the Conciergerie, than of becoming a rich man in this free country. Since then I. have crossed the Atlantic and journeyed over two thousand miles through the interior of this continent. And, now, I am in the city of New Orleans. What an extraordinary change there is, too, in my fortune and destiny! And how much I have learned that was new to me! I have. not only seen a new world in external na- ture, but I have realized one in my ideas and feelings. I may have been more fortunate than most men are, in having the -concurrence of accidental circumstances since my de- parture from France, to throw such light upon this new and, extensive field of- observation; but whether it has been so or not, I know that my mind has been so constantly and agreeably occupied that I have experienced no mental hia- tus since I left Paris. I continued in this meditative mood, bringing up in suc- cessive -order the events of the voyage, my stay in New York, and the incidents of my journey to New Orleans, until my attention was attracted by an unusual crowd and noise in front of the hotel.  I went down to learn the cause of this excitement, and saw carriage after carriagedrive up loaded with passengers and baggage, and a crowd of people pressing around the newly arrived motley looking individuals as they ascended the steps of the St. Charles. A babel of voices in English, French, Spanish and German, filled the rotunda of the hotel, and confusion reigned supreme. The number of yellow camphor wood trunks, with sacks and bags, brought in by the porters, and the variegated garbs, little round straw hats, and long hair and beards of the passengers i ^J    48       T 2he Diamond Cross. .soon convinced me that a ship had arrived from some dis- t:nt port. But when I. saw pouches of gold dust and shin-  ing nuggets of the precious metal handed one after the other to the clerk at the desk, to be- locked up for safe keeping, I learned that a steamer had arrived from Cali- fornia. I could comprehend the excitement in New Orleans about the new El Dorado, for we had been infected in Paris with the gold fever, and many persons had gone from that city to California.-   The quantity of gold exhibited, and the manner in which it was handled, showed that its value was reduced in the minds of those familiar to the sight, while the eyes of those unaccustomed to see such quantities glistened with ad- miration and cupidity. I could perceive, however, that all these gold hunting adventurers did not wear the same countenance; some carried themselves in a rollicking man- ner, swaggered over their treasure, and swore that Califor- nia was the greatest country in the world; and others were quiet, looked downcast and disappointed, and abused the golden State as a snare and a cheat. The swaggers obtained the largest audience to listen to their adventurers, and the complainers were generally ignored as of "no account." Nothing is so fascinating to the mass of mankind as gold, and people will risk health, fortune, and life even, to mine for it. The very sight of it in a crude state, will inspire the mind sooner than anything else, though it is pretty well known that the cost of obtaining it, in almost all cases, counting the expenditures in money and value of labor, is greater than the amount realized. The day after my arrival in New Orleans, Mr. Ellis, ac- -J companied by Mr. Dubois, were punctual to the time ap- pointed for our meeting. Mr. Dubois was introduced as the particular friend of my late uncle, as well as co-executor of his will. He welcomed me in a frank and affectionate manner, and said he had been made an executor of the estate on account of the friendship that had existed be-   -h3e Diamond Cross.       49 soon convinced me that a ship had arrived from some dis- tant port. But when I saw pouches of gold dust and shin- ing nuggets of the precious metal handed one after the other to the clerk at the desk, to be locked up -for- safe keeping, I learned that a steamer' had arrived from Cali- fornia. I could comprehend the excitement in New Orleans about the new El Dorado, for we had been infected in Paris with the gold fever, and many persons had gone from that city to California. The quantity of gold exhibited, and the manner in which it was handled, showed that its value was reduced in the minds of those familiar to the sight, while the eyes of those unaccustomed to see such quantities, glistened with ad- miration and cupidity. I could perceive, however, that all these gold-hunting adventurers did not wear the same countenance'; sortie carried themselves in a, rollicking man- ner, swaggered over their treasure, and swore that Califor- nia was the greatest country in the world; and others were quiet, looked downcast and disappointed, and abused the golden State as a snare and a cheat. The swaggerers ob- tained the largest audience to listen to their adventuires, and the complainers were generally ignored as of " no account." Nothing is so fascinating to the mass of mankind as gold, and people will risk health, fortune, and life even, to mine for :-. The very sight of it in a crude state ,will inspire the mind sooner than anything else, though it is pretty well Icnown that the cost of obtaining it in almost all cases, counting the expenditures in money and value of labor, is greater than the amount realized. The day after my arrival in New Orleans, Mr. Ellis, ac- companied by Mr. Dubois, was punctual to the time ap- pointed for our meetini. Mr. Dubois was introduced as the particular friend of my latg&uncle, as well as co-executor of his will. He welcomed me in a frank and affectionate manner, and said he had been made an executor bf the estate on account of the friendship that had existed be- t   so       L ine JLtamond Cross. tween my uncle and himself; for they had been acquainted' from the first year of Mr. Bouverie's residence in Louis- iana. He spoke affectionately of the kind nature and high character of his late friend. The personal appearance and genial face of this noble looking old gentleman inspired resped and confidence. I learn that he is wealthy and universally esteemed. My uncle chose him, doubtless, as the guardian of the estate i especially, while Mr. Ellis was selected as the legal busi- ness man. On examining the will I found the estate consisted of a large plantation well stocked, three hundred and fifty ne- groes, houses in New Orleans, lands in Eastern Texas, money, bank stocks, and some other personal property, valued in all at six hundred thousand dollars. About fifty thousand dollars were left as legacies to the executors, to two or three other individuals and to public institutions. The money and bank stocks amounted to a hundred thous- and dollars, leaving a large surplus after the legacies should be paid. "This is a very pretty estate," remarked Mr. Ellis, "for / a gentleman just entering the prime of life, and all is clear e and unincumbered.  Mr. Bouverie was liberal in spending 1 money for good and useful purposes, but he was a man of I business habits and capacity, and you see the fruits of his management. It is true he brought a considerable sum with him to Louisiana, but not anything like the amount of property he has left you to enjoy. I think I heard him say he had acquired his business habits as a merchat in Mar- seilles before he came to to this country. I replied that I knew little of my uncle's habits, as I never saw him, but that I understood he lived im Marseilles before he came to America, and that he became rich after settling here. \ "While I am not insinsible to my good fortune, gentle- men," I said, "I must confess I am embarassed about some ,. ^ t   \      The Diamond Cross.        5I things in the will. I' will state what these ate, and request you 'to enlighten me. as to my uncle's motives in making his bequest in such terms and with such condi-  tions. He has made the slaves an inalienable part, of the property; they neither can be sold from the estate nbr be made free. There is no public law in the' Slave States, I understand, that binads the slaves to the soil, as in Russia, l yet my uncle has nade sch a law for me in his will. i If I refuse to be a slave owner I should forfeit all title to the estate. I notice, too, the will is carefully framed and ex- plicit in this particular, showing my uncle had: some strong reason or motive influencing him. Will you be good enough to explain to me?" "You are right in your conjectures, sir; replied Mr. Ellis. "Mr. Bouverie entertained the opinion that negro slavery, as existing in the Southern States, under the form of a domestic or family institution, is a blessing to both the colored and white races. Though a man of strong pre- judices, and, at times, aparently excentric, he was eminently practical. He did not trouble himself about the nice dis- tinctions and speculations of the physiologists, ethnologists, or anatomists as to the differences in the races of men, or the inferior conformation of the colored race. He took it for granted, as a matter demonstrated by experience and beyond controversy, that the negro is inferior to the white man, but that he has a soul, faculties, hopes and fears as all other human beings. He admitted that although negroes are inferior to white men in intellect, as a race, the differ- ence is a graduation only in the same being; and held that they stood much in the same relation to the superior race as children do to parents and guardians. He maintained that they had been brought from afar worse kind of slavery -from the black night of barbarism in Africa-to the'light of civilization and Christianity, and that, as a' general thing, they are the happiest laborers, white or black, in the world. He considered that 'the philantropic purpose of   52       The Diamond Cross. La Place had been fully realized, and that there appeared to be no other way than domestic slavery under the whites in which this race could be civilized. "The negroes are treated kindly, and their labor is not at all more irksome than that of other working clasess else- where. Their industry is useful to themselves and to so- ciety, and apart from the humanitarian and economical view of slavery, Mr. Bouverie believed the system to be so interwoven with our social and political life that it could not be disturbed without ruining the well being -of both whites and blacks, particularly of the blacks, as well as. endangering the peace and prosperity of the country, if not the existence of the government. Hence he considered it his duty to endeavor to preserve the institution. He man- aged his own negroes, or family, as he called them, with much kindness, and was greatly attached to them. "Having resolved that his estate should pass to his own family, to the son of his sister, and not knowing but that the prejudices which exist in Europe against slavery might influence you, his successor, who was educated there, to sell or free the slaves, he imposed the restrictions which you find in the will. His chief object was, I believe, the good of his negroes, to prevent them being separated, and to have them taken care of, as one family, in the manner that he took care- of them. Then he had some pride in preserving intact the fine estate on which he had spent much labor and money in improving. You can now per- ceive his motive, Mr. Lanabere, in desiring not to have his negroes sold, and scattered one away from the other, or made free, to be thrown helplessly upon the world, as well as his object in preserving the property intact." "I see," I replied, "what were my uncle's motives, and with regret perceived his prejudices, if I may say so, in favor of slavery. But while I appreciate his kind feel- ing for the slaves, the institution is very repugnant to my ideas."                     -   *   -    The Diamond Cross.     53 I noticed that this bold assertion surprised the two exe- cutors. Seing they were about to argue the question I turned the con versationto another feature in the will which somewhat puzzled me. "I observe," I remarked, " that my uncle names me as his heir should he not have an heir of his own body. Now, I always understood from my mother that he had said several times in his letters, after he came to Louisiana, he should never marry. It is true this will is'dated nearly five years ago, and my uncle was not very old, so that he might have changed his mind and not have abandoned all thought of a wife. Do you know if he ever contemplated marriage?" Mr. Dubois, who was more intimate with my uncle than Mr. Ellis, replied, "I have always thought this a little strange, and I ventured once to rally my friend on giving some reason for hope that he might yet be seduced from the life of a bachelor. But Mr. Bouverie taking no notice of my playful remark, and seeming not to like it, I never alluded to the matter again. Notwithstanding his noble character, kindness and genial manners, there appeared, at times, a mystery and sadness /about him, which his most intimate friends could not penetrate. ,We thought he had been crossed in love, or that some other cause of heavy grief had weighed upon him, in his younger days, from which is mind was never relieved." 'Being informed .of the particulars of the will, and not being disposed to enter into a discussion then as to the slave property, I requested the executors to defer the fur- ther consideration of our business till another day. When left alone I fell into a reflective mood, and cogita- ted on my novel, and perplexing situation. S lall I become a slaveholder? said I to myself, I, *ho regard all men as having a natural right to be free? I, ho have been educa- ted to believe in the liberty, equality a2d fraternity of all men, without regard to race or color? xL who belong to  -54       7The Diamond Cross. the advanced school of socialist republicans,which endeavors to dignify labor and elevate the laborer? Shall I hold men as property? Will any prospects, however alluring, or any circumstances, however they may modify this special case  with which I have to deal, lead me to sacrifice the fundimen- tal principle of my creed? Can I reconcile my conscience to accept this property with the conditions imposed? If I take possession, I must carry out my uncle's wishes in good faith. He had a right to require this, for I had no claim to be his successor ; and whatever I may think of his preju- dices in favor of slavery, or however much I may deplore them, I see he was influenced by humane motives. If I should decline to administer upon the estate, and it should pass to the hands of others, the slaves would still remain in bondage, and under a worse master perhaps, whereas I might promote their welfare. As these last thoughts passed through my mind, finding I was yielding to a train of reasoning in accordance with my interests, I laid my hand on my heart, and suddenly checked myself with the inquiry. Is this the argument, f reason or cupidity? Certainly I am not indifferent to( prospect of having so much wealth, yet nothing ought ^ induce me to resign my opinions, but being convinced they are wrong, or to do that which is in conflict with them, but through imperative necessity. Shall I be justified in doing that which might appear to lead to the greater good? And am I capable of judging what that would be? I cannot do the slaves any good by refusing to own them, and may do them harm, while I may benefit them by being their master. Is it wisdom, is it true philosophy, to violate a principle for temporary good? And is there really any principle invol.  ved in this case? I am on an unknown sea, in the dark. I resolved to visit the plantation, after spending a few days in New Orleans, to examine the property, and to en- deavor to get more light in enabling me to solve the pro- I blem that embarrassed mne. I understood it was in that   The Diamond Cross.       55 region of the Red river, and would take two days to go there. During my stay in the city, I visited Mr. Dubois and Mr. Ellis, returned the calls of several of the acquaintances of my late uncle, and explored the city, and its neighborhood. The purpose of my voyage to America was soon understood and acquaintances multiplied from day to day. The child of fortune is always honored and courted. '   t New Orleans is more agreeable to me than New York.- There are more people here of my own councry, and who speak my language ; and, I am informed, there is more re- finement, liberality and hospitality. Every one seems to have an abundance of money, and to spend it freely. I understand this is not the "season" in New Orleans, and B that a great many families have gone, as they are in the habit of going every summer, to the North, and to the numerous springs, and other places of fashonable resort, found in this country. I could perceive, or I might say feel, the, reason of the summer exodus, for the weather is intense- ly hot. I am told I shall be much pleased with New Orleans in the winter, and that it will remind me of Paris. It has certainly, more the appearance of a city in the old world, than any other I have seen in America. The narrow streets of the old French quarter, the construction and general appearance of the houses, shops 'and stores, and the la nguage and manners of the people, lead me to imagine almost that I am in some part of Paris. There is one scene, however, entirely new to me, unlike anything I ever witnessed before-that is the extraordinary appearance of and movements along "the levee" or bank of the river. Hundreds of monster steamboats and vessels, of various sizes and forms, lay for miles along the wharves; and countless drays and carts, with thousands of laborers, were employed moving the produce and merchandise that lay piled up in credible quantities. I could not have con- ceived such a hive of wealth and astonishing movement as   56        Th/e D iamond Cross. I saw, on each hand, far as the eye could reach. Stout muscular Irishmen, bathed in sweat, rivaled herculean negroes, under a trophical heat, in moving bales of cotton and large packages of merchandise, as if they were handing small parcels. These laborers 'must have been selected specially for this work, for I never saw before such power- ful men. The negroes seem to delight in working under the rays of the sun, and to have no cares, for they were singing and laboring cheerily all the time, much as sailors do when hauling on board ship. The Irishmen did not appear\to labor under the same inspiration, but worked on in silent earnestness, as if their minds were occupied only with thoughts of their wages and the support of their families. The levee at New Orleans presents a prolific subject for the contemplation of the political economist and the philo- sopher. There are the myriads of bales of cotton that have such an incalculable value to the human family, and in- fluence upon the labor, commerce and civilization of the world t and there are the bountiful outpourings of this great continent, to feed, like Egypt of old, the hungry mil- lions of other. lands. Great and happy country--last born ot the nations-who  contemplating these wonderful re- sources, can predict the grandeur of thy destiny? After remaining in New Orleans a few days I prepared to visit the plantation, and gladly accepted the offer of Mr. Ellis to be my companion. ' 'iL   2he Diamond Cross.       57 CHAPTER     VI. kCtjn our journey to the plantation, we ascended the Mis- sisippi for some distance, and then the Red river to within a few miles of the place of our destination. There we found at the landing a carriage to convey us to the house. We aw the same general character of country the whole dis- tance; a level plain, deep alluvial soil, large plantations, with here and there stretches of dense forest and jungle between, every mile or two a planter's residence, and groups of negro huts, and great numbers of negroes in the fields. The teeming soil and amount of labor employed on it, showed what a rich country we were in. Mr. Ellis entertained me on the way with tales of negro life, and of the negro's faithfulness to his master, which I found to be favorite topics with Southern people, as if de- sirous of impressing one with the value and happy influence of slavery., He was eloquent, also, on matters relating to himself, to his position as a lawyer, the experience of his legal life, his influence in the community, and his aspirations for: political honors. He said he had been a candidate for Congress; and should have been elected but for bribery and the large amount of money his opponent used in the elec- tion, and that he should run again, when he doubted not he should be successful. Heis a great politician and great talker, and thinks the acme of bliss would be in having an opportunity to display his abilities on the floor of Congress. He concluded in making an effort to stimulate my ambition by sketching out a future career of glory for me in the same way, saying I was young, educated, and wealthy, and should soon become acitizen and eligible for such honors.   We soon reacned theplantation. The extensive fields of cotton looked beautiful, and promised, I was told, a large c crop. I was on the soil I could call my own, and all the luxuriant wealth spread around was for me. A peculiar sensation seized my mind and I said to myself, "Am I to X reap here what I have not sown, and gather from what I have not planted "                   :i We approached the house through a fine avenue of shade trees, and large shrubberies and gardens. The dwelling is plain but commodious frame or wooden building, standing i on a slight eminence with a gentle slope, and overlooking the gardens, and a portion of the plantation. It was built, I learn, about eight years ago, and stands on the site of a ' former residence. It was in the form of a parallelogram, two stories high, with wide balconies and verandas round the lower floor.. The rooms are large and high pitched, and  wide passage or hall runs through the centre. The windows open on the balconies on each side like'doors. The whole plan is arranged for comfort, and to give plenty of room, and air, which are so necessaryin this hot climate. The house is handsomely furnished and contains a few good works of art, a well selected library, and a stock of  the best wines. There is an oil painting likeness of my hncle hanging on the wall, which I am told resembled him very much. As I  never saw him I studied this with great  interest to understand his character, if possible, through his features. He must have been a handsome man when young. I  supposed he was darker, like some of our family and most of the people in the part of France where he was born, but this portrait shows he was as light as those of a more  northern race. I  remember, however, that some of my mother's family have light complexions, hair and eyes.  The likeness was taken, I understand, about twelve years I ago. It has a sad, thoughtful expression, as that of a man i I who had experienced some deep grief. I felt regret that I X never knew the original.                r: -  t!t g    Thie Diamond Cross.        59 My uncle, living nearly all his time at home and taking pleasure in entertaining his friends and visitors liberally and with taste, had everything prepared suitably. He had travelled a good deal, had lived in good style in cities, was refined and knew how to enjoy himself and to gratify others. He spared no expense in keeping his gardens, shrubberies, rines, and orchard in good order. Flowers and shrubs in great variety were distributed in forms and groups to pro- duce the happiest effects. Shade trees, grape vines, and rows of orange and lemon trees were placed in positions to vary and enrich the scene. Beyond the gardens were rich meadows, over which were scattered fine looking cattle, lorses, mules and sheep, besidesa few rare animals, as tame leer and India goats. In the distance, on the verge of the gotton fields, were seen the negroes' quarters, plantation buildings, and superintendent's and overseers' houses. In- deed the whole scene exhibited the wtah and fine taste of the deceased proprietor. The superintendent having been notified of the time we were to arrive had prepared for our reception and was at the louse to receive us. This gentleman, I was informed, was lighly esteemed by my uncle, who treated him and his Family with marked kindness, or even as friends. Mr. Templeton was a Southerner and had been a planter him- self, but through some misfortune was reduced in circum- stances and compelled to take the situation he held. He welcomed me in an easy graceful manner, and with that self-possession and dignity of bearing I noticed in many Southern men. The house servants were then brought in arnd presented. Several of them who had been raised in French creole families addressed me in my own language. They grouped around me in a respectful but free, familiar manner, and gazed at me with intense interest. "We are glad to see young master, God bless him,S' they said. "Old master, who is dead and gone, we loved; he   60       The Diamond Cross. w-as so good."Tears stood in their large black eyes as they said this, and I felt tears rise in mine too in sympathy vith these affectionate creatures. Their grief was sincere, doubtless, at the loss. of their late kind master, whi c1 was brought fresh to their minds; but they felt anxiety also as to their new one, so important is a change of masters to these people. It was this double thought, probably, that touched their hearts. I assured them I would act as my uncle had acted in studying their welfare. A gleam of joy lighted up their countenances, and " thank young master, God bless him," was their heartfelt response. While cogitating upon my novel situation Mr. Ellis inter- rupted me, and remarked pleasantly, "There is but one thing needed now, Mr. Lanabere, to make you as happy as any one could desire to be, and that is to fall in love as soon as possible with one of our charming Southern ladies who understands plantation life, and bring her house to this delightful place as Mrs. Lanabere." My thoughts flew instantly to Miss Risley, and I became absent-minded for a few moments. Unconscious that my companion was noticing the thoughtful mood into which I had fallen, I saw a smile on his face as I caught his eye, which showed he saw the effect of his remark. "Aha, Mr. Lanabere," he said, good-humoredly, "I think I have unintentionally struck a chord that vibrates beyond the limits of Louisiana, unless you have fallen in love dur- ing the short time you have been in the State. Why, sir, you looked just now like a very Romeo, and thongh present in body you were absent in mind." "I was but thinking of some absent friends," I replied; "I am perfectly free, Mr. Ellis, and may yet fall in love with one of your Louisiana beauties." "Doubtless, doubtless, Mr. Lanabere, you were thinking of absent friends," he added, "and I beg pardon for inter- rupting you in the delicious reminiscence. The privilege of a  little pleasantry is- allowed, you know on love affEirs.   The Diamond Cross.       6r But, to change the subject, sir, what say you to a ride to the negro quarters before dinner? We shall not dine until late in the afternoon, and we have two hours to spare." Assenting to the proposal, we were soon mounted and on our way; with Mr. Templeton, the superintendent, as our companion. As we were approaching the little village of huts, observing that we should pass the superintendent's house, I remarked to Mr. Templeton, "Being near your residence, sir, may I not ask the pleasure of an introduc- tion to your family?" . ' "Certainly, sir," he replied, "I shall be pleased to in- troduce you to my wife and daughter. Mr. Bouverie was a frequent visitor, and was very kind to Alice, to whom, as youare aware, probably, he left a legacy of ten thousand dollars." I remembered having seen the name of Mr. Templeton's daughter in the will, and so informed him. A superintendent besides an overseer to the plantatIon might have not been altogether necessary while my uncle lived, for I learn he paid strict attention to his own business and understood it well; but Mr. Templeton was a neighbor at the time of his misfortunes, and my uncle's sympathy being excited in favor of the family, that gentleman was appoint- ed to his present situation. The dwelling of Mr. Templeton, a substantial and com- fortable one, was well and tastefully furnished. A good piano, a pile of select music, and choice books, of the best French and English authors, in the parlor, indicated that some one of the inmates had a cultivated taste. Mr. Templeton informed me that Mr. Bouverie had kind- ly provided most of these for Alice. Being a single man, and spending much time on the plantation, he frequently visited the family. and took a good deal of interest in the education of the young lady. Besides, being fond of the society of young and interesting peopre, he made her a companion. His kindness created a reciprocal attachment, ,...--   62       The Diamond Cross. and she frequently went to his residence, paid attention to I his garden, gathered fresh flowers daily for his sitting room,  and sang and played to him and his guests. In fact, she looked upon him as a second father, while he treated her like a daughter.  As Mr. Templeton was thus giving expression to his gratitude, and to his pride in the accomplishments of his daughter, she and her mother entered the parlor. When introduced, Miss Alice looked at me with an expression of sadness on her countenance. It seemed as if she realized all at once, the loss of her benefactor, and fatherly compan- ion on seeing his young succesor. She felt, probably, that my age would preclude the same intimacy that had existed with my uncle, and her former freedom and enjoyments at the plantation residence. Seeing this charming little girl of seventeen, I could understand how my uncle became so attached to her. She  had a child-like simplicity in her manner and appearance. She was dressed -in light morning, which heightened . the beauty of her fair complexion, and formed a pleasing con- trast to the light brown hair that fell over her shoulders.-  Her large grayish-blue eyes beamed with tenderness and sensibility, and her delicate, regular features expressed much sweetness of disposition. She is the pride of her father and mother, and beloved by all, especially by the negro servants, who anticipate her desires, and take delight in serving her. I  remarked to her that I hoped to have the pleasure of- cultivating the acquaintance of one- of whom my uncle re-  garded with so much affection. "We shall be happy to rece ve you sir, at our humble dwelling." she replied, speaking in good French, "whenever you may feel disposed to visit us. But I understand you have been residing in Paris, and I fear you will find a quiet country life dull and irksome." I  added, that I had not always lived in Paris; that I -,Il i.   The Diamond Cross.       63 loved nature in its pure and simple beauty, and that since I had travelled in this magnificent country new, sensations and views were awakened within ime. "Here," I said, "I find much that is calculated- to please, and should a cloud of gloomy monotony ever cross my existence, there is a bright ray of sunshine to be found near my residence."- A slight blush indicated that she understood the complaint, and she naively turned the conversation to another subjetl. After a short visit we rode to- the negro quarters. The dwellings, or cabins, of the " servants," as the slaves are generally called, stand in- rows on a slope of rising ground, 'to admit of drainage. They are built of logs, and daubed with clay to fill up the crevices, contain but one room, or two at most in some cases, have a comfortless appearance, and are neither so well built nor so comfortable looking as the peasant cottages of Europe. Compact, well construct- ed dwellings, however, are not so necessary in this climate. The cabins are detached, and have vegetable gardens ad- joining, which contain also a few flowers. All the negroes, except a few old women, and a number of little children, who were frolicking about almost naked, and rolling in the dirt more like four-footed animals than bipeds, were at work in the fields. There were hogs, and plenty of barn- yard fowls, scattered all-round, belonging to these pebple. I was an object of intense curiosity in the old women and children, the former coming to their doors, as we passed, bowing, and muttering something about " master," which I did not understand, and the dirty little urchins, jumping up and gazing at us, with their large black eyes distended, in the greatest wonder. We saw in the distance numbers of men and women at their plantation labor. They seemed to be working a* field laborers, the same as free pleo0le in other parts of the world work. There was nothing novel to me in the sight of women laboring as men, for in Europe a great deal of field labor is done by women, and in France, perhaps, the   greater part. Our women plough, sow and reap, and do I other kinds of work, even the work of porters, carrying i heavy burdens that, men in other countries usually do. I see none of the barbarity or cruel coercion of forced labor X I expected to see, and nothing, indeed, different to what is seen among the peasant laborers of the most free coun-  tries of the Old World. I Understand it to be the same  throughout the South as here, though there may be some exceptional cases of hardship, as there are in Europe under I grinding employers or cruel landlords.  As we were returning Mr. Ellis suggested that it might be agreeable to me to see all the negroes of the plantation together the next day, and that they should suspend labor early for the purpose of coming to the house in the after- noon. I thanked him for the suggestion, and requested Mr. Templeton to aat accordingly. At the same time I invitedl Mr. Templeton and his wife and daughter to dine with us  in the evening, thus arranging it to have all the people on the plantation, black and white, brought together the fol- lowing day.                       X I gave instrucions to have an entertainment prepared for the negroes. And early in the morning the old butler, or steward, was bustling about preparing for what to him  and the other servants was to be a great event. My ser-  vant Louis, even, descended from his dignity of personal  attendant and traveling guide to assist in the preparations,  particularly in providing something good for " the niggers" as he called them. He appeared to rival the superintendent in authority on the occasion, so proud was he- of his posi- tion And, indeed, I found that he managed to make him- self almost as great an objec of interest to the humble people of his own race, in this quiet place, as his master  was. Mr. Templeton was amused at this, and remarked  that no people love to exercise authority or display their fancied importance -more than negroes, especially among By those of their own color.  -  - ' - -   m   e nea sztamonlz lross.      VS The dinner, prepared at such a short notice, was excel- I    lent, showing that my uncle's storehouse and cellar had been kept well supplied. After dinner we went to see the negroes amidst their en- |    joyment. We found them squatted down on the thick grass I     under the shade trees, just outside the garden, eating and drinking, chattering and laughing with the greatest gusto. Their joyous ha! ha ! rang through the air, mingled with such confusion of voices and jargon I cannot describe. I never saw people who could abandon themselves so com- pletely to pleasure for the time being. They were dressed in clean holiday clothes to do honor to the occasion, and their whimsical costumes, in such grotesque variety, were ludicrous. It seemed that they had crowded on their bodies whtaever habiliments they possessed, without re- 'gard to fit, shape, or color, and as if the} would rival each other in the most extravagant originality, delighting most, however, in strong colors. Through my uncles liberality, ,it appears, they were enable to purchase a good deal of finery, and had a good stock on hand. This sylvan festival furnished a striking tableau for an artist, and was such a scene as Hogarth would have de- lighted in. As soon as we approached the whole party rose and bowed politely, for the Southern negro, I learn, is always polite, and then pressing round, they shook hands with me ina respectful manner A hundred blessings were showered bon my head, and many affeftionate allusions were made to "old master." If was an affecting scene; for I felt assured that these people were sincere in their expressions. of gratitude and sorrow.' In the evening they serenaded us with music, on the banjo and violin, and in a chorus of voices. Though untutored, they have great taste for music, and really'performed the lively airs they are so fond of very creditably, while their clear, full, and melOdi- ous voices in a chorus would have brought down applause at the opera.    65        T2he Diamond Cross. The warm, silent evening; the delicious perfume of the many flowers around us;. the music: the clear full moon, which rode high in the heavens; the deep shadows of um- brageous trees that flecked the bright earth; the dark and gratesque outline of negro figures in every conceivable atti- tude, and the complete novelty of the whole scene, as we sat under the portico of the house, inspired new and delight- ful sensations in my soul. Turning to Miss Templeton, who sat by my side, I said, "I know not how others-how you, who are familiar with such scenes-may be impressed, but I feel as though I were under a spell of enchantment. So great and sudden is the change from the city life in Europe to those that sur- round me now that I can scarcely realize they are adual." "It is beautiful, indeed," she replied; " but you are more impressed, doubtless, than we are. It is like another world to you, for you had not seen this southern country, and its rural life before, and may have entertained, as most other foreigners, a different idea of the South, and our social habits ; and as you appear to have a vein of poetry and romance in your nature, this heightens the pleasure that novelty alone might inspire in others., Miss Templeton having been more the companion of my uncle than any other person, and thinking it'probable she might know more of his charaCter, thoughts, feelings, and private history, even than any one else, I took the first op- portunity to have a conversation with her on the subject. I invited her, therefore, on the charming evening referred to before, to accompany me in a walk through the gardens and along the grand-looking avenue of trees winding from the house to the road. A moonlight walk on a balmy summer's evening, amidst the silent beauties of nature, with one so interesting as Miss Templeton, was calculated to awaken a sentiment of admiration, particularly as I was in a romantic mood. I was about to utter some flattering words, when thoughts of c   The Diamond Cross.       ,67 our relative positions, her artless and simple, confiding character, and of Miss Risley, rose up before my mind and checked me. I only gathered a few flowers, and presented them as a souvenir of my regard. I then remarked to her that I was surprised my uncle never married, for his nature was kind and. and affec- tionate, and he was domestic in his habits. ",Though he had abandoned any such thought long before you knew him, probably," I added, "I think- it strange he did not marry in his younger days. Did you ever hear him allude to the subject?" "I never heard him speak of marriage," she replied, "but he spoke several times of a lady whom he called Louisa, as if he had loved her, and there were painful recollections about her. I understood Mr. Bouverie had loved and was 'disappointed in some way in his hopes. A cloud of sad- ness over-spread his countenance, and a suppressed sigh escaped from his heart, sometimes when he mentioned her name. I did not presume to ask any questions, and he did not inform me who she was. Indeed, he did not con- verse about her, and merely made allusions to her inciden- tally at times, as a person whom he had loved. This, even appeared to be painful to him, for he would, at such times, suddenly check himself, and turn the conversation to some other topic. I saw a portrait of her once, and I suppose it is in the house still among Mr. Bouverie's personal. effects. Judging from the likeness she must have been beautiful, and about twenty to twenty-three ydars of age. It is a miniature painting, and appears to be a finished work of art. Mr. Bouverie remarked at the time that it was a good likeness, and had been taken by a superior artist. It was in a handsome frame, and kept in a case the size of a ladyls small writing desk. If you have any curiosity to see it, I think you may find it carefully placed somewhere in the library." I had a good deal of curiosity to see this portrait, and re-   68       SwThe D2iamond Cross. solved to search for it, for I had no doubtit was a likeness of the lady my uncle o nce announced he was going to marry, and the sanwe who had exercised such an influence over his mind and destiny afterward. I remembered hearing how perplexed and grieved mv mother was at the mysterious change that suddenly came over him shortly after he said he was going to be married. We knew there must have been some strong motive or feeling to induce him to change his name and residence, and always supposed the lady he was to have married was the cause. The following day I found the portrait carefully put away among the valuable manuscripts, letters, and family souvenirs. It was, as Miss Templeton described it, the likeness of a beautiful woman. I could understand how my uncle might have loved such a person. As far as I could form an opinion from the pidure I thought the original was a woman of great refinement, acute sensibility and an ar- dent nature. Yet there appeared in the large eyes, partly concealed under deep eyelashes, something mysterious and romantic. It was just such a face as leaves a fixed impres- sion on the mind which we carry away with us andstudy, and which we want to look upon again. I  direted the stewart to have it placed in a good position among the other pictures in the pdrlor. ' I spent several days in making myself acquainted wig the boundaries and character of the plantation, in learning something of the nature of cotton planting, in examining my uncle's papers and accounts and in arranging with,Mr. Templeton to leave the management in his hands. Mr. Ellis and I made some .visits to the planters in the vicinity, in order that I might become acquainted with my neighbours. They were glad to see me;- particularly those with whom my uncle had been more intimately squainted, and expressed a hope that I would reside at the plantation. I  found everywhere the greatest hospitality, with much re finement and intelligence among them. It seemed to me,   The Diamond Cross.      , 69 however, that here, as elsewhere in the South, as far as myn short experience went, the people converse mostly on two topics-politics and the blessings of their domestic institu-t tions. Having finished my business at the plantation, I left Mr. Templeton in charge, and requested Miss Alice to use the garden and library at her pleasure, as she had been ac- customed to use them when my uncle was living, and then returned to New Orleans. Soon after my arrival in that ciiy my uncle's old friend and executor. Mr. Dubois, called to see me. This kind gentleman had felt some anxiety about the property and my welfare since he herd me express my hostility to slavery. He lost no time, consequently; in coming to learn my pre- sent views, and to give me advice. I told him frankly that while my opinion of slavery, re- garding that institution in the light of philosophy and hu- man rights, was the same as before it had been changed with respect to the condition of the slaves, and that I think they were better off, under all the circumstances and diffi- culties of the case, than I had supposed. He was much pleased at this avowal, and complimented' me on what he termed my practical good sense. A day was appointed when the necessary forms of law might be complied with and I be put in possession of the estate. I informed Mr. Dubois that as the weather was so hot, and I riot being acclimated, I should return to the North and spend the remainder of the summer there, and, as he was not a practising lawyer, I should request Mr. Ellis to be my attorney while absent. He approved of my purpose, and said he should be happy to render me any other ser- vice at any time as my friend ,and the friend of my late uncle.  Mr. Ellis accepted with alacrity, as he did everything in the way of business, the proposal to make him my attorney J   - {r'er *ts'*t{VfUf;v i V y V     l remarking that he was better acquainted with the affairs than any other person, could be, and that there was a good deal to arrange and settle without delay and during my ab- s ence. Having taken full possession of the estate and arranged i  all my business in Louisiana I returned to the North.  %, C  *\   The Diamond Cross,        71    -   t CHAPTER VIL The preceding narrative of Lanabere's journey to and experience in Louisiana, Mosely received with a letter requesting the pleasure of his company at Saratoga or Niagara. Mosely was gratified at the progress this gentleman had made in acquiring information and correot views on the subject that had perplexed him so much. "But," he said, reasoning to himself, "Lanabere, though honest and open to conviction, has the old deep-seated leaven of radical and revolutionary French philosophy within him, is impulsive, and his mind is plastic under the influence of the circum- stances that for the time surround him. Should he form conneCtions or become much associated with people edu- cated like himself, and holding similar views, his brief and useful experience may not save him from a relapse into his old theoretic philosophy." Mosely had been spending some days in Virginia with his friends, and was preparing to lea' e for New York .and Niagara at the time he received Lanabere's letter. It was his custom when not abroad to visit Niagara every year or two. He loved the grand scenes of nature, and period- ically renewed 'his impressions and the pleasure he enjoyed from this, the grandest of all. Besides, he usually found society more agreeable to his taste there than at some other places of fashionable resort. The first days of August setting in with an unusual degree of heat hastened his departure from the South and he left for the Falls. Every hotel and cottage appropriated to the accommoda- tt   72       The Diamond Cross.  tion of visitors was crowded when fie arrived there. He went over to the Clifton House, on the Canada side, be- cause it was more quiet than on the American side, prefer- - ring to be retired for a few days at least, in order to gratify his taste in the contemplation of the impressive scenery. He arrived in the evening, but too late to see the cataradt till the morning: still he heard the sound as he sat alone in his room at night, rumbling like distant thunder throngh the still air. It was delicious music to him. As the un- broken, never-ceasing sound rolled on, soothing his spirit and elevating his thoughts, he fell into a contemplative mood, and thus he mused:--"This, in its ceaseless flow, is the emblem of eternity, and in is harmony, like the spheres of the universe in their motions. Awake, O man, it seems to say, and measure thy brief existence with the everlasting current of nature, and prepare for eternity. The voice of these waters, as the voice of God is calling me to examine myself. My years flow on like the current of the lake till I must reach the precipice. Shall. t be plunged into the abyss below, from which there is no salvation, or will my spirit rise up through the mist and mingle with the rainbow glories above? What am I living for? Why created? For usefulness and happiness, doubtless ; for, when we look at the beneficence of the Creator 11 around us, it is not pos- sible to conceive of any other design. Have I employed the opportunities afforded to be useful? Am I performing well the part I should perform in my sphere of life? Is not my existence too much a selfish one? Ought I not to be more useful to others-to society? I have been blessed with qualities of mind and heart to make me so. I am sympa- thetic, love what is beautiful and good, and desire to be happy and contribute to the happiness of others; yet I live without an object, am a'sort of wanderer in the world, and have no one to share my affedions or perpetuate my name." One evening, as Mosely N taking his usual walk, just * a   The -Diamond Cross.       73 as the declining sun threw its mellow rays over the Horse Shoe Fall, giving greater breadth and distinctness to the glourous bow suspended over it, he saw a group of persons standing near the precipice, and enveloped apparently in the radient arch which sprung from the ground close by. "What a picture!" he exclaimed, as he approached and watched the movements of these individuals, "It reminds me of scenes spoken of in Scripture, where angels are represented as appearing to men, scanding surrounded by a halo of glory." This group consisted of a old man, with long silvery hair; an elderly lady, who looked l'ke A genteel country matron, and a young lady of graceful form and striking beauty. Mosely passed near them, for he was much' struck with the appearance of the youngest of the party, and wanted to see her face again. He caught a glimpse of her as she turned her head, and he voluntarily exclaimed, in a subdued voice, " "ow charming!" She stood near the verge of the precipice, gazing inten- tly at the mighty flood, as it thundered down into the abyss below. The old gentleman and the other lady stood farther off, and where in great fear about their young companion. It was a giddy height, and really dangerous to a nervous person. But there she stood on the overhanging rock, rapt in contemplation. The water, in its swift motion, brushed past, and touched her feet, as the counter current of air gently waived her garments. "My dear child," said the elderly lady to her, in agony, "do come away trom that frightful place," and she stretched out her hand to sieze the flowing dress of the young en- thusiast and force her away. "Oh, mother," she replied, as she turned away obediently "I love to look on this grand scene. It elevates my thoughts and is music to my soul. I could not have imagined any- A         I "  ' \!   74        She Diamond Cross.  thing so sublime. The more I gaze on it the more I am impressed. I would fain linger here and imbibe the in-  spiration that comes with the deep sounds, as they rise up from the unfathomable and wonderful cataract  Mosely, who was still near, as the young lady turned round and left the spot, could not forbear looking at her with admiration. He heard what she had said to her mother, and was as much "impressed by her language as  . her beauty. As she walked away his eyes followed; and  : though he felt there might be some rudeness in this, he  could not desist from casting lingering glances till- she en- tered a carriage and passed out of sight. . "How charming!" he said to himself. How gracefully she walks; the motions of her body accord with they char- acter of her mind, if I may judge from what she uttered just'now. The family look like respectable country people, yet there is a most queenly bearing in the daughter. Such a face I never beheld before, and I shall never forget it, beautiful in all its features and full of expression, just such a face as a Titian would have delighted in for a subject. I 'Imust see her again." The figure of this lady haunted Mosely's imagination as if he had seen an enchanting apparition. He saw the carriage in which she left go in the direction of the Clifton House, and then immediately retraced his steps to the hotel, leaving the contemplation of the cataradt till another day. He ascertained that the family came in the morning. Looking at the register of arrivals, he found there had been but one family who arrived, and this was registered MAr. and Mrs. Howard and Miss Howard, Maryland. That is a Maryland name, he thought, and one of some distinction in the State; but though Miss Howard has the mien anwd appearance of a superior person, her fatherland mother do  not appear to be distinguished in any manner from ordi- i nary respectable farmers or planters, to which class, I 1   The Diamond Crozs.       ? 75 judge, they belong. "I must see her again," he repeated, musingly. Concluding they would remain a day or two at least, as they arrived only that morning, he congratulated himself on being likely to have an opportunity of seeing Miss Howard again. , He revolved in his mind various plans by which he might hope to meet and become acquainted with her with- out appearing to be intrusive, but saw that he must depend upon some fortunate accident. "I would like to study that exquisite face," he said, half audibly, not thinking that a deeper feeling than that of curiosity or mere admiration had begun its work in his heart. Early the next morning as Mosely sat reading on the balcony o the hotel, not supposing he should see ladies there at that time,- for the sun had just risen, Miss Howard and her parents came out and stood a few steps from where he was sitting. As soon as he saw them he rose, bowed, and offered his chair, with that politeness which American gentlemen never fail -to extend to females. They returned the salutation; Mr. Howard thanked him, and then they entered into a conversation among them- selves. As he resumed his seat his first thought was, they are going away or they would not have risen so early: then he thought, they are country people and, probably, are in the habit of rising early. While these thoughts were passing through his mind, he heard the daughter say affectionately, and politely, "I fear I may have induced you to rise to early, mother, but I thought you might like to see the Falls from this point just after sunrise. We saw them last evening near sunset, and glorious sight it was, one I shall remember asp long as I live. As our stay on this this side of the river will be short, I wished to see them before we leave, when lighted bythe rays of the morning sun. I always understood, that he best view was from the Canada side. We are too far ff however, to get the best prospect, and it will be ttig- I    e   76       The Diamond Cross. ing to you to go before breakfast, where we were yesterday. But see mother, the coup-d'aeil of the whole scene, how charming it is, though appearing less grand than when standing near the Falls. How gorgeously the sun mounts over the tops of the trees, tipping them with mellow silver tints, and permeating their branches with golden hues, ! while the shadows of night still lie lingering over the deep i river below!"                     i How could Mosely fix his attention on what he was read- ing, when he heard these words? ' He looked up at the charming girl as she stood before him, and- felt a sympa- thetic inspiration. Her countenance was radiant with delight, and her eyes beamed with pleasure. She con- tinued to talk in the same strain for some minutes, uncon- scious of being in the presence of a stranger, so absorbed was her mind ; and he remained gazing at her with increas- ing admiration. She was dressed in a simple but tasteful manner, in a light morning dress of fleecy texture, which the slightest breath of wind agitated. She had no jewelry on her small and exquisitely formed hands, in her ears, or any other part of her person, except a rich, small cameo, set in diamonds that served as a pin to hold the ribbon that passed under a neat lace collar round her neck. There were no bandeaus, ribbons, flowers, or any other ornament on her head, and none were needed, for the profusion of her silky light chesnut hair, tinged with gold, and her finely shaped head, rendered them superfluous. She was neither tall nor short but looked rather taller than she really was from the sym- metry of her form and her erect figure. She appeared  i rather slender, though round and well developed. The crowning beauty of all was in her face ; the nose, mouth, and chin, were as faultless as those of the famous Greek model of female beauty, having a delicate voluptuousness scarcely perceptible; the forehead. over which the hair was parted and reposed, after the style of the Venus de i   The Diamond Cross.       77  m Medici, was not full or prominent, but round and smooth, indicating more taste than strength of intellect, and her full, light gray eyes, under deep eyelashes; and delicately arched brows, varied in expression, and even seemed to vary in color at times with her changing thoughts. Her complexion, which was fair, seemed almost transparent, and was suffused with the glow of health. "She seems to me like a vision," said Mosely to him- self. "I have seen many celebrated beauties, but never one like her. She is the beau ideal of loveliness." Just then Miss Howard looked at him, and saw he was gazing intently at her. They both turned their eyes away, he, as if he had been guilty of rudeness, and she, with a blush, at the thought, probably, that this stranger might 'have overheard the enthusiastic language she had been uttering. Then, from some inlpulse; that of curiosity on her, part, perhaps, their eyes met again. She instantly dropped hers, gently walked away with her mother, saying something softly which he could not hear. He was was afraid he might have been deemed rude, and that Miss Howard had le* to escape his gaze. The thought gave him pain, for he would not be rude to any one, par- ticularly to her he so much admired. He was almost tempted to apologize, but thought again it might not be so; and she did not look offended. In truth, he was agitated, and did not know what to think or do. Mr. Howard remained on the balcony, which. gave Mosely an opportunity to exhibit some politeness, by offer- ing Mr. Howard the newspapers he was reading. This e appeared to please him, for he immediately commenced a conversation, showing he was of a social, frank, and talka- tive nature. "- This cataract, sir," he said, " is a great sight; but I cannot see how my daughter Laura, and others I have heard speak of it, can run into such extasies about it. I was really afraid yesterday she would fall down the preci-   78       The Diamond Cross.9 pice in her enthusiasm, and this morning she was up by daybreak to look at it again.") Mosely replied, "We are not all constituted alike, sir; what you merely admire or look on with comparative indifference, she may delight in; and what you may be deeply interested about, she may find uninteresting. With-  out being a listener, I accidentally heard just now your  daughter's expressions of admiration of the scene, and they were so eloquent that I could not forbear looking at her with feelings responding to hers." "Yes, yes," responded the old gentleman, " all you  young people are enthusiastic. My daughter hap been so from a child. She always expressed herself ja that way when travelling among the mountains, or when any remark- able natural scenery delighted her; and as to flowers and plants, she seems to find something beautiful in every bud and leaf. When a little girl she would often run to me with fresh flowers from the garden, and make me examine them one by one, and tell their names, as she expressed her delight over them." If Mr. Howard did not sympathize fully with Miss How- ard, and Mosely, in their appreciation of the beauties o nature, he had a kind heart, and was proud of his daughter, whom he loved dearly. He was gratified, therefore, when he heard Mosely-allude to her taste and eloquent language. He was communicative about himself and his family, as  such frank and' genial people are apt to be, and Mosely learned much, unasked, thatgreatly interested him, though he was a stranger to the family.    .        a He   learned in' the course of the conversation that had arisen so naturally, that Mr. Howard had no other child I than his daughter ; that Miss Howard had been educated i at a  famous Catholic seminary, and graduated about a year ago ;  that Mr. Howard was, as he suspected, a Maryland farmer; that they were going to leave the Canada side of  the Falls that day, and that they would remain on the   The Diaimond Cross.       79 American side, three or four days only. Mr. Howard was more social and communicative, perhaps, than he otherwise would have been, from having understood that the gentle- man with whom he conversed, was also from the South. Mosely saw the family once more during the day as they were walking out, when a look and slight bow of recognition passed between him and Mr.' Howard. He thought, per- haps vainly, there was something of curiosity or interest expressed in their looks towards himself, as one notices in persons when he has been the subjeEt of conversation ; at least he was disposed to flatter himself it might be so. We are naturally inclined to believe whatever gratifies our wishes or vanity.. He had endeavored to make himself agreeable to the old gentleman, and indulged- the hope that he had succeeded. And could he have known he had done so, and that Mr. Howard had spoken to his daugltdr of him, he would have been delighted. When he saw the family leave the hotel with their bag- gage in the evening he felt regret. "Yet," he said, "what is she to me? I am not acquainted with her even, and may neversee her again."   . He tried to subdue his feelings by reasoning on the im- probability of becoming acquainted with her, or that she would ever have any regard for or thought of him; but her image still remained vividly pictured in his mind. Wher- ever he went, when he laid down or arose, and in the still  hours of night, the vision was before him. He concluded to go the next day to the American side, and take quarters there for the remainder of the time he would be at the Falls, hoping he might meet with some  friend acquainted with the Howard family to give him an introduftion. Still the thought of following ttem was re- pugnant; for he was too proud and had too much delicacy to do anything that might have the appearance of foppery or impertinence. He went the following day to the Catara6 House. He !            t    80       The Diamond Cross. did not find the name of Howard among the arrivals regis- tered the day before, and regretted he did not go to the In- ternational. Still he continued to console himself with the hope of seeing Miss Howard again, and finding the acquain- tance he wanted to give him an introduction.   he Diamond Cross.       8x CHAPTER     VIII. osely-was two days on the American side of the falls without seeing Miss Howard, and he was disappointed, for he remembered her father said they would not remain beyond three or four days. The fortunate accident he hoped for to bring about an introduction had not happened. To calm his feelings and meditate alone, he went to walk in the evening on Goat Island. It was serene and warm, and the moon shed a silvery light over the earth and the foaming water as he strolled under the shadows of the umbrageous forest trees and by the roaring rapids. To a contemplative mind like his, such a scene was calculated to allay troubled thoughts; but instead of finding peace his agitation was increased. For shortly after he went to the island, and while he stood listening to the music of the swift curent, which plunged over the masses of rock in its path, and the sound of the Falls at a little distance as they poured forth in concert their deep bass, like muffled thun- der, he saw a lady and/ gentleman approach, and soon re- cognized the former to\be Miss Howard. They were walk- ing leisurely, and she was leaning on the arm of her com- panion. The gentleman was tall of distinguished appear- ance, and apparently of middle age. Just after they passed, N the gentleman turned his head to look at Mosely, as if the lady had made some remark direfting attention to him. "That must be her lover," said Mosely to himself; "their manner to each other indicates this. It is a fitting time and place for lovers to walk. What a happy man he must be." His heart beat quicker as he muttered these words, and he became conscious that his admiration for Miss Howard   82       The Diamond Cross was taking deep root. Then rallying himself to combat this sentiment, as a conscientious person beset with temp- tation would struggle against it, he reasoned upon the folly  of indulging thoughts for her, the improbability of becom- 1 ing acquainted with her, the likelihood that she was al- ready in love, and the unreasonableness of- supposing she  would -be inspired with love for him, if he knew her even ; (:i besides, he had no thought of marriage, This train of reasoning afforded some little relief to his mind for the time, and he resolved not to think of the charming girl again, except as he would of any other beautiful objedt that crossed his path. He returned to the hotel and sat down to read. Shaks- pere, that great master of the human heart, was the author he selected, thinking to find consolation in the philosophy to be found there; but everything he read seemed to stim- ulate his ever recurring thoughts of Miss. Howard and the tall distinguished-looking man he saw- walking with her. All his reasoning and efforts to drive her bright image from his mind were unavailing. Mosely received an invitation from some friends staying at the International, to a ball, or to a " hop," as one of such dancing parties is called, for the following evening. This he understood was to be on rather a larger scale than those that were generally arranged by the guests of the hotel for their own amusement, and he concluded to go, having a lingering hope still of seeing Miss Howard there.  Whoever has been to a ball in a large hotel at one of the fashionable places of summer resort in the North can form an idea of the mixture of humanity collected there on that occasion.  There were pretty young girls from New York and other large cities, in the highest style of fashion; young gentlemen in the latest Parisian cut; fat dowagers, with bare arms and shoulders, sparkling with diamonds and gold; tall, lank, literary and novel-reading spinsters, with very conspicuous head-dressess 3 matronly country-looking   Th e Diamond Crdss.       83 ladies; Western and Southwestern belles, in extravagant colors, flowing ribbons, and covered with the greatest amount of jewelry; a few tastefully dressed creoles and other ladies from the far South; long-haired young South- erners, in tight, narrow-tailed coats and the thinest and tightest boots, with long watch chains and heavy seals and other ornaments; heavy and purseproud-looking men from the great trading towns, and plain country-looking farmers, with their wives and daughters, all in their best.' Besides these and others not necessary to notice, there were. the inevitable little fussy woman, who knew everybody; the smiling, bland lady who introduces every one, and that constant concomitant of American balls, the young man taking notes for the delectation of the public and special gratification of the hotel keeper and his guests-the corre- spondent of the press. After having been introduced to more persons than it was possible to remember, Mose y cast his eyes round in search of one who was more interesting to him than all the rest; but the evening star he sought was not there; she had not yet appeared, "Will she come?" he asked himself mentally. "Perhaps she has left, for this is the fourth day since I heard her father say they would remain only three or four days." Then, thinking of the resolution he had madej not to suffer his mind to dwell upon her, he turned to converse with his friends and new acquaintances. Soon, however, Miss Howard entered on the arm of the same gentleman she had been walking with the evening before. She looked more beautiful than ever 'in Mosely's opinion, and, indeed, she was dressed In such perfe5t taste that the beauty of her form and features were greatly im- proved by her becoming attire. Her dress was white and light as gossamer, and made sufficiently fashionable to show the perfect symmetry -of her arms, shoulders and chest, without being so extreme as the fashion of the time; To compare her neck and shoulders to ivory would be an   Os4      - he Diamond Cross. indifferent simile. Her exquisitely formed and dainty foot, that stole from under her dress as he walked, might have served a Praxiteles for a model. The only ornaments of jewelry she wore was a rich diamond cross attached to her dress, and sparkling on her bosom, and some fresh rose  buds and leaves arranged tastefully in her hair.    i "How distinguished she looks amidst this melange of  humanity and fashion!" thought Mosely. "She appears  bright and joyous as if she could enter into the dance and other pleasures of society as readily as her mind did into the inspiring scenes of nature." - The gentleman -who accompanied her was evidently well bred, and a person of taste, and had the easy bearing of a man of the world. He appeared to be between thirty-five and forty years of age, had a fine expressive face, and re- sembled Miss Howard somewhat, though of a darker com- plexion.  Mosely was disposed to think at the moment they were relations. This gentleman paid marked attention to her, and she seemed to have great regard for him. All eyes were directed towards them.  They were recognized and welcomed by  several acquaintances. "Do you know that lady and gentleman who have just entered the ball room?" asked Mosely of the person with whom he was conversing.  is Miss Howard, of Maryland," she replied, " but I know her companion, Mr. O'Donnell, who is an agreeable and  I accomplished gentleman. He  is from Baltimore. He came here with the Howard family, and seems devoted to I Miss Howard. She, too, appears to be much pleased with him. It is thought they are lovers, yet he -must be old  enough to be her father. He is a handsome man, and his figure and face make him look younger than he -really is. Marriages, you know, are often made where there is as great or greater disparity of age. I think he is just the   hIe Diamond Cross.       85 kind of a man to make an impression on such a lady. She looks to be romantic,.to have an elevation of thought be- yond her years, and is more likely to love him than an in- experienced, superficial young gentleman of her own age. These words fell heavy on Mosely's heart; for he did not doubt they were correct as to Mr. O'Donnell and Miss Howard being lovers. He thought their manner to each other indicated this. Then he found that to be the opinion of others. "But what is it to me?" he said to himself " in an abstracted mood; "I have no right to indulge any thought of her, and am resolved not to think of her." Despite of this sudden corrective to the current of his thoughts,he resumed the conversation. "I did not see Mr. O'Donnell with them when they were at the Clifton House a few days ago, and I should think he might have accompanied Miss Howard, if he be her lover." "Then you have seen her before?" said the lady, "You seem interested, Mr. Mosely. Do you think she is pretty?" -Very beautiful, madam," he replied with emphasis. "She is not unlike Mr. O'Donnell: has something of the same cast of features, and he looks more like a relative than her father or mother does." "I did not notice that," she responded: " but since you mention it I perceive a likeness. I do not think they are related, and never heard they were. I have known Mr. O'Donnell and a portion of his family connections some years, and do-not remember having heard they had any rela- tives of the name of Howard." "'I see," said Mosely, " some of our friends are convers- ing with her. I shall ask for an introduction." While engaged in this conversation his eyes once met Miss Howard's, and he imagined he perceived a certain expression of interest ori congeniality, but was disposed to attribute it to her remerniberance of having met him under the circumstances already mentioned, and to the discourse he had with her father.    86        The Diamnond Cross. He saw her engage in the dance with animation, and watched her graceful motions. During the dance he sought a lady friend whom he had seen conversing with her, who happened to be the one that favored him with an invitation to the ball. He found she was well acquainted with Miss Howard, and that they had been a year at a convent semi- nary together. This lady spoke of her in terms of warm admiration and friendship, and expressed the gratification she should have in introducing him. He liad the thought of asking some questions about Mr. O'Donnell and the rela- tion that person bore to Miss Howard ; but the dance being concluded at the moment, and other persons coming up, he was prevented from doing so. Miss Howard was seated with her gentleman companion, when the lady spoken of, taking Mosely's arm, walked to where they were sitting, and said, "Miss Howard, Mr. Mosely desires to be introduced to you, and I have much pleasure in making two of my most esteemed friends ac- quainted. I am sure you will find each other congenial. Let me introduce Mr. Mosely to you, also, Mr. O'Don- nell." "I am happy to make your acquaintance, sir," said Miss Howard, "especially as you are the friend of Mrs. Bright, who expressess herself so graciously toward both of us. 'You were on the Canada side of the Falls a few days ago, I think, when I was there with my mother and father." Mosely expressed his grtification on being introduced, and remarked that he was near her at the Horseshoe Fall when she spoke in admiration of the imposing scenery, and that her eloquent and appropriate language struck a chord of sympathy in his own soul. "Ah, sir," she added, "I fear the impulsive enthusiasm of my nature on such occasions makes me appear singular. I was not conscious of a stranger being there to hear my rhapsody. But who could help feeling inspired in the presence of so much grandeur and beauty? Then, it was   The Diamond Crozs.        87 the first time I saw the Falls from that impressive point of As this brief colloquy was going on Mosely thought that Mr. O'Donnell, without being rude in the least, regarded him in rather a scrutinizing manner. He addressed a few words to that gentleman in the way of polite acknowledge- ment of the introduction, and then resumed the conversa- tion with Miss Howard. Mr. O'Donnell gave up his seat to Mosel15 leaving him precisely in that agreeable situation he preferred. "You are happily constituted, Miss Howard," continued Mosely; "for I perceive you can appreciate the charms of nature and are happy in the gaities of society, or in quiet social intercourse." "The truth is, Mr. Mosely," she replied, "I have noth- ing to make me unhappy. I have the most loving parents, the kindest friends, have no wants unsatisfied, my mind is free and open to be influenced by whatever objects of plea- sure Providence may strew in n-y path. There is much ' unhappiness and suffering in the world doubtless, but I oknow little of it by experience, and only through sympathy for others. I am happy at my country home, and the same when I go abroad." "You understand the true philosophy of existence," Mosely remarked, "to be content, and to enjoy life with grateful satisfaction in all situations." "I do not know, sir," she added, "that I understand theoretically anything ofthe philosophy of life; for I have never reasoned about it. I simply follow, in my expres- sions and conduEt, the dictates of nature and that which I conceive to be proper." "I should suppose, Miss Howard," he observed, "that with four delicate sensibility and appreciation of what is beautiful, elevated, and joyful, you would feel a continuous life in the country monotonous and dull, and would desire more animated scenes and a wider sphere of enjoyment."   88       The Diamond Cross. "You are kind enough, Mr. Mosely," she responded. "to invest me with enviable qualities, and if I really possess a small measure of them, I can find opportunities for their exercise at my quiet home. The violet, the lily and the rose in my garden are charming, as well as the flowers of other climes, and perhaps, more sweet; the stately oak, graceful pine, and other forest trees on our mountain slopes are not less beautiful than the palm or mohogany: and our peach and other orchard trees in bloom or pendent with fruit may be compared even with the orange grove; the rising and setting sun' and the glorious heavens, span- gled with stars or illuminated by the bright moon, are the same in Maryland or Virginia as elsewhere. All is but comparative, and to an appreciative mind nature teems with beauty everywhere. Though there is but one Niagara the profound and never-ceasing voice of which sinks deep into the soul, there are a thousand streams that flow in softer music." "Then, I have society, which. if not so intelectual as may be found in the great busy world, is unartificial, pure, and sometimes quite original. Besides, I have books to en- large my views of the world, and of other times; and I have been tanght and have schooled myself to read none but the best authors. I am mulh indebted to Mr. O'Donnell for the seletion of my small library, and for directing my taste in this respect. I have learned that the taste of people has become vitiated through reading the mass of unnatural, ficitious matter which our publishing houses spread over the country, and I endeavor to confine my reading to that which is natural and exalted in thought and expression." This was said so naturally, with so much grace, and without the least appearance of pedantry that Mosely was struck with such additional evidence of Miss Howard's superior taste and refinement. He gazed upon her in ad- miration while she was speaking, and could have responded in the passionate language of his soul; but one sentence   The Diamond Cross.       89 damped his ardor and bound his tongue when he would have been most eloquent. "Mr. O'Donnell directs her taste," he cogitated: and that thought alone then filled his mind. "You have done ample justice to the efforts of your pre- ceptor," he said, "but I think very much is due to your own taste and disposition. What a happy man he must be to have such a scholar! I should be delighted to sit at. the feet and take lessons of the pupil." She smiled at these words, and appeard to be hesitating a moment before replying, when her father and mother ap- proached and the conversation ceased. Mosely was then introduced by the daughter and this led him to converse with Mrs. and Mr. Howard. He learned in the course of their remarks that they intended to leave Niagara the following morning. He danced with Miss Howard in the next set, and made  an effort to be very agreeable, but he could not resist the tendency to thoughtfulness, and felt disappointed with himself. The family left the ballroom early, and he had no other opportunity of renewing his conversation with Miss How- ard. Soon after they left he retired to his hotel and room. All the evening, and during the night a tumult of ideas agitated his mind. He could think of no one subjet long. One thought constantly came uppermost and mingled with all his cogitations. Thevision of Miss Howard haunted him continually. All his efforts and reasonings could not chase it away. He struggled in vain against his growing passion. He understood upon inquiry at the hotel that the cars for Buffalo would not leave till after breakfast; so that Miss Howard could not start before that time as she was going by the Buffalo train. He resolved to see her again before she left. He rose early in the morning for the purpose of getting,   go90      The Diamond Cross. a bouquet of choice flowers to present to her, as a parting expression of his regard. He knew she loved flowers, and was careful to select and arrange this souvenir with as much taste as possible.' He sent it with his card early and remained at the hotel till the family were ready to start, without appearing to make a formal call. He was in the parlor as they came from breakfast. The manner of each on meeting him was kind, and almost cordial. Mr. O'Don- nell even, whom he had not thought very complaisant, and for whom he entertained something like a feeling of jealousy, was not less so than the others. Miss Howard had a few of the flowers and a green sprig out of the bouquet, presented to her tastefully placed in her hair. A moment- ary gleam of joy shot through his heart when he saw this; and he was disposed to accept it as a flattering indication of special regard, till he reflected that she might be merely paying him the ordinary compliment any cultivated lady would-pay. He took leave of her with warm expressions of esteem, though not in such language as his heart prompted, had their relations to each other been such as he desired. She, her father and mother, and Mr. O'Donnell were kindly polite in parting, and Mr. Howard, handing his card, said they would be pleased to see him at their home if, in his travels, he should go to that part of the country. This invitation was the only ray of hope Mosely had that he might ever see Miss Howard again; and though he saw but little prospeEt of being so much gratified, it afforded him some solace. But why should he hope, when he had concluded in his own mind that Mr. O'Donnell was her lover-whenvhe felt that it would be weak in him to entertain any thought of seeking her thereafter? "Adieu, charming girl," he said to himself, as his eyes followed her till she was out of sight; "thou art the brightest vision of female loveliness that I ever beheld, or that ever floated before my imagination."   AT he Diamond Cross.       91. CHAPTER IX. Afew days after the incidents mentioned, which pro- duced a change in Mosely, making him  more thoughtful, and inducing him to court solitude, Lanabere, in company with the Risley family, arrived at Niagara. With them were Mr. Selman, Mr. White, and other friends. The party were going from-one place of summer resort to another in a squad, much as a large class of Amer- icans travel abroad. Such people manage to create a sen- sation when aggregated in this way, which they could not when disintegrated into their several little individualities. The carriages laden with trunks, followed by a van with more trunks, drove up rapidly to the Cataract House, like the cortege of an emperor., The crowd of idle guests at the door were all agog ; the hotel clerks came out in anxious haste, for they expeAed the arrival of the party of distinguished Northern and Southern millionaires, having been written to for apartments ; and the servants were in the highest state of excitement and flurry. "Poor Lanabere," thought Mosely, as he witnessed this scene, and saw that gentleman step out of the carriage, ( they have, in sporting phrase, bagged you at last." After giving Lanabere sufficient time to become located, and to arrange his toilet, Mosely called upon him. On meeting, the warm-hearted Frenchman threw his' arms around Mosely as if he had been a brother. He had an affectionate. remembrance of the kindness -Mosely had shown him, and he entertained great respeAt for his eleva- ted character, and superior mind. Mosely, too, esteemed Lanabere for his generous qualities, gentlemanly bearing and intelligence.   92       TAe Diamond Cross. Their conversation soon turned on the events of Lana- a bere's career, since he left New Orleans, at which time the narrative forwarded to Mosely closed. Mosely learned that when Lanabere returned to New York, from Louisiana, he proceeded to the residence of Mr. Risley, and found the family had gone to the Eastern States. A letter was left to inform him they would remain at Nahant for a week or two-Mr. Risley having some business to transa& in Boston, which was near-and then they would go to Niagara. He was urged to join them as soon as possible. They had already spent part of the summer at Newport. After that they returned home for a few days, previous to taking what they called their summer tour. As they had left New York this last time only twio or three days, he supposed he should find them at Nahant and immediately started for that place. Lanabere was not very free or particular in describing the manner of his reception by the Risley family, or by Miss Risley herself; and, indeed, he always had been more taciturn on the subjed of his acquaintance with them or love for her than any other. But it was unnecessary to tell Mosely this, for he could understand how Lanabere was received by those who had evidently made up their minds to form a matrimonial alliance with him. He was satisfied they were resolved not to let the fortunate Frenchman or his fortune escape them. Though Lanabere had. revealed on several occasions, especially in his narrative, his love I for Miss Risley, he had done so more in an incidentalway 1 than by a dire&d avowal. Not that there was any affe&5a- I tion in this reserve, or that modesty which sometimes holds i the tongue of a person in love. Nor is it probable his par- tial silence arose from such a deep feeling as Shakspere 1 makes Viola to have when he says :- ' "She never told her love, But let concealment, like a worm i' the bud, Feed on her damask cheek."   The Diamond Cross.       93 No; there was, seemingly, a latent consciousness that his head was carried away by his heart, that he was not- sure he was taking a prudent step, and that his sagacious friend might see it to be so. Mosely delicately avoided probing him on the subject; for though he had been consulted and his advice taken by Lanabere on the other matters, he did not consider this a matter in which he was concerned, or that their relations to each other were such as to justify him in asking questions or volunteering counsel. Besides, he did not know that Miss Risley was not suitable and worthy to be Lanabere's wife, though he thought the contrary. He believed it would be a mere marriage of convenience on her part, and to that he felt a repugnance. He knew such marriages were com- mon among fashionable people, and had heard this illus- trated by a really charming Fifth avenue belle, with whom he was acquainted, when she said to a fine yonng man she loved, " I like you very much, Harry, but I cannot afford to marry you." He only hoped, for Lanabere's sake, this might not prove to be one of those convenient alliances formed- by intriguing mammas or duennas which frequently end disastrously. At Nahant and Boston Lanabere was made acquainted with a number of the literary men, journalists, preachers, political orators, and other lights of New England. Mr. Selman, who continued near the Risley family, was gener- ally the introducing party. That pedantic and cunning in- dividual was highly gratified in thus being able to give himself a certain amount of importance, to make himself useful to Lanabere, as he thought, and to please this class of his acquaintances who delighted to seize hold of strang- ers, particularly rich ones, and stuff them with their dog- mas. Lanabere's situation was in many respects a peculiar one and calculated to excite an unsual degree of interest among that class of people. They had been informed by   Mr. Selman, of Lanabere's antecedents, as far as he knew; the event- that had brought Lanabere to America, and the extraordinary circumstances connected with the estate he came to possess. A Paris journalist, or the red republican school, would have been a lion among them at any time ; - but when added to this, there were the interresting fadts of ri Lanabere having become very wealthy, the inheritor of a large negro property, and a neophite in the intricacies of American politics, he naturally became a special objedt for their lionizing propensity. The millionaire feature of his situation, which Mr. Selman, assisted by the Risley family, magnified considerably, was not the least an interesting one. On the whole, it was a novel, and remarkable case for the manipulation of these doctors of political and social science; consequently they swarmed round  him like bees, and offered their services and nostrums. Lanabere was amused at times, but more often was per- plexed and annoyed, by these restless busy-bodies. He discovered a new phase of character in them, which rather surprised him. "These Feople," he said, immediately on being intro. duced, " manifested the deepest interest in my affairs, and spoke as if they had a right to know about my business. I had heard, and read, while in Europe, it is true, that this was a characteristic trait in Americans : but my experience, up to that time, did not confirm the statement, and I con cluded it was a libel, or at least a caricature. I suppose, therefore, it is a trait of character, more peculiar to the i! people of that seEtion of the country."   : "One man, a preacher, I believe, ventured to suspend the anathemas of Heaven over my head, like the sword of Damocles, if I touched the accursed institution of slavery, - as he called it.- Another thought, I ought to contest my uncle's will, or defeat its p rovisions in scfne indirec way if I could not legally. Others, moremoderate, considered   TFhe Diamond Cross.       95 that as there was no possibility of freeing the slaves, I might possess them, and become useful in the neighbor- iood, in enlightening the benighted people there on the sin and evil of slavery. Many offered to aid me in the benevolent objects they proposed. All this advice and these offers seemed to have been made on account of what Mr. Selman had said of my anti-slavery sentiments. One gentleman in Boston, wanted to exchange property, mostly in stocks, for my estate, saying he would take the risk of successfully contesting the will. In truth, I had no piece while-in that part of the country, and found great relief x when I left.  Mosely smiled at the earnest naivete with 'which Lana- bere related his experience, and remarked. "You will re- member, perhaps; our conversation in which I pointed out to you some of the peculiarities'of our people in different se6ions of the country, and particularly of those of New England. " "I noticed everywhere," resumed Lanabere, "in the New England States, an aftive, thrifty population, well construCted houses. and neat gardens, a rocky uncongenial soil made produftive, and the ra-:ie of machinery and smoke of engines. It seemed to mne thl:ere were far more inuustry, energy and enterprise than in tohe South, and that the people understood the art of living comfortably, better than the Southerners. True, I could fonrm an opin- ion from appearances only in those portioi s of the country I passed along. Notwithstanding the tiaits of character you have pointed out, I imagine that such ais people, who explore thr earth and the waters, and even their apparent- ly barren rocks for riches, and who leave nothing unex- plored, would make themselves rich and their influence felt.", "You judge rightly,' replied Mosely: "their influence is felt, extensively: but the -same inventive, restless, and persevering charadter which creates wealth and produces   96       Zhe Diamond Cross.           : much good in material matters has produced some evil   when operating upon our political system. The NewEng- land people are more industrious and are stimulated to be more inventive than those of the South from the necessity of labor. Nature is more lavish to the Southerners.   - Their climate is more luxurious; their slaves produce  i wealth from a teeming soil: they have an abundance, love U  leasure, and are contented. But if they do not become ?j such good or thrifty mechanics, artisans, or traders as the 1 Notherners, their situations and habits of life make them ; better statesmen."  /           ' "The East and Norththrough their greater industrial ! aftivity, have made the couth continually tributary to their wealth. While bountiful nature and slave labor pour abun- dance into the lap of the South it does not remain there, but is periodically emptied into the coffers of the merchants, traders, and capitalists of the Nothern cities. This stream of riches is always running from its source to the North, spreading through a thousand rills, and enriching that entire seftion. The South is more valuable to the North than India is to England, or the :nines of Peru and Mexi- co were to Spain. The Union is a great blessing to both, i but particularly to the North; for the former takes the produce, does the business, and supplies the wants of the latter unrestriEted by prohibitions or tariffs. In fact, re- r striftions, prohibitions, or tariffs are imposed upon the commerce of every other people trading, or who would trade, with the Souta. Thus, you were right in supposing 2 that such a people would become rich and make their in- fluence felt. The Southern people do feel it, under the unrestricted intercourse and protection as the Union af- fords, through all the currents of their existence. But they are content to contribute to the wealth of their co-citizens of another sefeion, if they can live in peace, and if the 'in- fluence exercised over them commercially be not used politically to invalidate their rights.    Vle Dia/t1,oznd Cross.      9? "With regard to the condition and mode of living of the ,eople of the two sections, to which you referred, there is no doubt that those of New England and most parts of the North live in a more comfortable manner, as to their dwell- ings and many of the conveniencies of life, than a large portion of the Southern population. The warmer climate 3f the South, however, renders many of these Northern comforts unnecessary. Butthe planters and farmers gen- erally of the South live very comfortably, and many ele- gantly. Then there is neither in the, country or towns ot that section anything like the squalid misery or degrada-. tion that is found in New York, Boston, Philadelphia, and other places of the North. Suffering from want is unknown there, which cannot be said, I believe, of any other part of the world." "t I noticeid,' said Lanabere, resuming the account of his experience, " that the. people of this section of your coun- try are almost as ignorant of the practical working of slavery in the South as Europeans, while they are more prejudiced and discuss the question with more excited feelings. We look at the matter calmly, and reason upon it in the light of political science or philosophy. They discuss it more with a view(to political action for party purposes. You are aware that I regarded slavery, as nearly all Europeans regard it, as a relic of barbarism, necessarily attended with cruelty and grinding oppression; and the people of the slaveholding States, for the the most part, as semi-civilized. When I told my Boston acquaintance my recent experience, and of my surprise at finding a different state of things in the South from that which I expecfed to see, they became louder in their declamations; said I had been misled or had deceived myself; that I had seen but little, and that rare, exceptional cases on the bright side only; and that all the general features of the institution, which I had not seen, were worse than Europeans regarded them. They were impatient in discussion and intolerant of my expres-   9S        T/ie Diamond Cross.          s sions adverse to their own views. 'The preachers, whom I I thought to find more reasonable and mild, agreeably to their religion and superior education, were the most vio- lent."                         , - "But, sir," added Mosley, " we have spoken on this  i subject before, let me hear further of your adventures." "I have little to add," Lanabere answered, " that might :- be interesting to you. Your description of the different classes of people in your country accords with my own ex-  perience so far, and several amusing incidents occurred  while I was at Boston and Nahant quite characteristic.  "I might have remained there in obscurity, compar- atively, but for the tongue of Mr. Selman. He knew every body, and every body's business, and he gave me quite an undesirable notoriety, no being the least modest v s in stating my claims to consideratilt. He attached him- self to me continually, and gave me great deal of inform- ation about persons and things. But, while he was of service in this respef. and seemed to study how to be use- i ful to me ; there was something of a patronizing air about him, especially in the presence of the numerous friends he  introduced, as if he were taking care of me, or I were under E his special guardianship. He no longer troubled himself,  or me, by any conversation on the -question of my peculiar ? case, but repeated his offer to become agent or superinten- dent in Louisiana. i "Mr. Risley had many acquaintances among the capital- ists, and stock operators of Boston, to whom I was intro- duced, being one of his party. Every one of them had some scheme for making money. It would be impossible to remember all the kind offers made to me, to add largely. to my fortune, by making a small investment in gold, cop- per, zinc, iron, coal, and other mines ; in stone quarries, quartz crushers, gold amaigmators, timber lands ; in rail- road stocks, that would pay a imhdred per cent i in patent boilers, street cleaners, and in other things to numerous to i   The Diamond Cross.       99 mention. I had no disposition, however, to speculate, and Mr. Risley advised me not, saying that if I should be dis- posed to make investments at any time, he could put me in the way of doing so. "Subscription papers out of number were laid before me, soliciting my aid for the negio colony of Liberia, fbor clothing the Feejee islanders, for missionaries to the re- motest parts of the world, for fugitive slaves, and for socie- ties and institutions of every character. "One little man, of very antiquated appearance, bored me terribly with questions about my genealbgy. He was a hunter-up of family records, and had been extensively employed by the great families of Massachusetts in trac- ing their pedigrees to the original Pilgrim Fathers, and in getting up books of lineage for their delegation. Family hunting for the sake of distinction is common enough under our aristocratic form of society ln Europe, -but it seems to me remarkable and ridiculous in this new country, under your simple republican institutions. "I was besieged, too, by some of a new se& called Spiritualists, who were anxious to bring meL under this modern dispensation, assuring me that I had all the char- ateristics of a first-class medium. They said I had only to believe and to give myself up to-spiritual influences and I should see in the other world as clearly ag I could see sun at noon-day. These, and many other such incidents, new and amusing attracted my attention a good deal while in Boston. After being in that city, and Nahant a fortnight, I left with Miss Risley, and her family and friends, for Niagara, our party swelling on the way like a snowhall as it rolls.  '   CHAPTER X. /iosely called upon Mrs. and Miss Risley shortly aflter they arrived. He met in their apartments, which were the most elegant in the hotel, their whole party, who looked as if they were in council on opening their campaign at Niagara.  His fellow voyagers across the Atlantic-the co-book-makers and joint travellers, Mr. Selman and Mr. White-were there.  Besides, he was introduced to Mr Roland, a fashionable New York gentleman; Mr., Mrs. and two Misses Brown, of Boston ; Mr. Bixby, a New Eng- land magazine and newspaper poet, and literary collabora- tor in general, and two scientific ladies-one, Miss Harring- ton, an astronomer, and a mathematican; the other, Mrs. Lovejoy, a widow, skilled in the sciences that treat of the aflecions and passions. These formed the party Mosely saw drive up to the hotel in such an imposing mall- ner. It has been remarked that Mrs Risley del ted in being surrounded by persons of some notoriety, or, as she called them, distinguished people, whether foreign or native, or having a  local or wide-spread celebrity. Foreigners, she q preferred, especially if they claimed to have a title or were in any way related to one ; but home geniuses were accept- able if they had ever made a noise in the world or in any particular locality. She had not much regard for talents or accomplishments unless they made their possessors con- spicuous., Philosophers tell us it is natural for people to  seek a  counterpoise or an equivalent for the defefts of their own nature or situation, Mrs. Risley, rememberingher former obscurity, and feeling the want of the education and refinement wiich command respe&, might have resorted to i   The Diamond Cross.      101 the habit of hunting up and surrounding herself by t' dis- tinruished individuals," for the purpose of obscuring her own defects and acquiring notoriety or position. If she did not. discriminate .wisely between the dross and the true metal, she only failed as a great many other tuft-hunt- ers, in a better station and with more ability, had failed before her. She did not bring with her, however, on this occasion any refugee counts or very remarkable persons, foreign or American, and only a sprinkling of native lite- rary and scientific- geniuses, with a few wealthy individuals, to make her summer campaign interesting. Miss Risley was the cynosure of all eyes at the Falls. She had improved in appearance since Mosely saw her on board the steamship. Her beauty, stylish figure, and rich and fashionable mode of dress attracted the attention of every one.' She was admired by all the men and envied by the women. A quiet, subdued beauty may pass along in society without exciting much jealousy among her sex ; but when such a bright, dashing star appears, the fair creatures are greatly moved and scrutinize her very thoroughly. Not long emancipated from school life, spending some months at home with all the freedom New York ladies en- joy, and surrounded by the peculiar society her mother cultivated, Miss Risley had acquired a free and an inde- pendent air. - Being superior to her mother in intelligence and accomplishments, her father placing no restraintOn --o -- her, and expecting soon-to marry a rich man, she became as easy and as unrestrained in her conduct as she pleased. Without a thought of doin, wrong, giving offence, or excit- ing unfavorable comments, she used her liberty with some disregard to the opinion of others. Moonlight walks with her lover, her freedom of manner with Mr. Roland and Mr. White, which was called flirtation, and her independent bearing in general, were fully discussed by the ladies. Nor were they sparing in their remarks upon the family being upstarts, and onjwhat they called Miss Risley's pre- ' 'and owwha they I   tentions and impudences. She was unconcious of the ef- fect her conduct and beauty were producing among the en- vious and gossiping people at the -hotels; and her family and friends smiled upon everything she did" as imcompar. able, she never thought of being indiscreet. But while her own friends petted and flattered her, she could not help noticing the significant side remarks and glances of others. " Why do these people" she remarked on several occasions "regard me in that shy, scrutinizing and stand- off sort of manner?"   She attributed it to envy, conse- quently herpride  was aroused, and she thenseforth as- sumed a more nonchalant bearing.                  L While at Nahant Lanabere avowed his love to Miss Ris-  ley, notwithstanding he had thought of deferring this dec- laration and subjecting himself to a longer probation. HIis purpose to wait till he should become better acquain- ted with the lamily and the country yielding to the impulse of his passion as he was walking with her one beautiful evening. His impulsive nature was on fire, and he would no longer resist making the declaration. They were alone. 'lhe moon was looking down so bright, while the shadows of the trees under which they walked were softening its tell-tale beams, and the distant mnsic at the hotel was blen- ding with the grand voice of the ocean as it rolled its waves along the beach and among the rocks at their feet--all combined to inspire tender and romantic sentiments. How could he resist the influence? How could he help giving expression to the fullness of his heart' at such a time, as she leaned upon his arm, radiant with beauty, and moving with the grace and lightness of a fairy? A stronger man than Lanabere would have yielded. She was silent when he poured forth his impassionate language, became slightly agitated, and then, as if to sustain herself, pressed his arm more fondly than before. She said little in reply, except she that returned his affection, and that he must speak to her father.   The Diamond Crozs.   103   Mr. Rlsley consented willingly that Lanabere should ad. dress his daughter, and like a man of business, considering it would be a good match, cut short the conversation on the subject. Mrs Risley said a great many things about her daughter being so young, losing her charming society at home and so forth, but concluded by saying, as she put her handkerchief to her eyes, she supposed they must submit, as there was no controling such love affairs. From this time Lanabere and Miss Risley were consid- ered '" engaged," to use the commonly received expression. No time was spoken of for the marriage, but from intima- tions made on several occasions, it was generally under- stood that the end of the summer season was regarded as a suitable time for the event. Lanabere had no doubt that 'Miss Risley loved him, for she said so, when he made his own confession, and she. had really exhibited affedtion for him; but he was not altogether satisfied, and felt a twinge of jealously at seeing her so free with other gentlemen. Still he would  say to himself, in his efforts to stifle any jealous thought, "   she loves me ; she means no harm ; it is the habit of American society." Mr. White no longer gave him any concern, for though Miss Risley would sometimes be a little coquettish .*with him it was evident he was of too light and trifling a char- aster to make an impression on her. Besides, he had in despair, transferred his affections to one of the ,Miss Browns. It was different with regard to Mr. Roland. Lanabere did not- feel so easy about the intimacy existing between his fiancee and him. He wae another sort of man-a polished experienced, knowing man of the world. He was several years the senior of Lanabere, but scarcely looked older, his figure and general appearance, making him look young- er than he was. He was handsome, perfectly  self-possessed, polite and insinuating, and was aufait in conversation on   i04       The Diamond Cross.  the opera, and all other topicat please city belles. He was always fashionable and scrupulously well dressed. He lived at the club, had the most elegant apartments, and  drove the best and fastest horses on the Bloomingdale road. ! No one knew in what his wealth consisted, yet he always appeared to have money, and to live like a rich man. He went to Wall-street every day, when in New York, and had  at times some buisness relations with Mr. Risley. Though . affable in manner, he was not very communicative, and he  : impressed one with the idea that there was some deep, in- crutable purpose, in his conduct at all times. His business connections, and personal intimacy with Mr. Risley, placed himorn a familiar footing with the family.  I Thogh Mr. Roland was intimate with Miss Risley he did not pretend to address her ; and he recognized Lana- bere as her lover. He was one of those men who, while they regard marriage as a desperate thing, and not to ad- dress ladies to any such end, admire beauty and are always X courting it. He was liBe the frogs in JEsop, which had a great mind to some water, but would not leap into the well :i  b cause they could not get out again. He admired women,   t but he was not the man to make a marriage leap. When-   ! ever Lanabere was not with Miss Risley, Mr. Roland was. - While he wished to avoid exciting Lanabere's jealousy, he 8 never lost an opportunity of paying attention to and enjoy- ing a tete-a-tete with her, and she seemed to be far more gratified than she ever had been with Mr. White's atten-? tions. Lanabere was annoyed, therefore, though he would hardly acknowledge it to himself, but continued to allay his I irritation with the thought that such were the habits of so- p  ciety, though so different to those of unmarried French  ! ladies.  '  Life at places of fashionable summer resort among the mass of those who go there consists, for the most part, in eating, drinking, dancing, flirting and gossiping. Niagara, with all i its grandeur, is not an exception. Some go for a change i   I Te Diamond Cross.      To0 t I of air and scene, some for novelty, and a few to enjoy the beauties of natuire, but the greater part merely to say they have been and were not compelled to stay at home. The summer light of Americans from their peaceful homes, to and fro, hither and thither, like bees driven from their hive, has become a fashionable mania. Those living in large cities, who have any pretensions to be in society, and are too poor or unable from other causes to leave home, have to close their window blinds, deny themselves to visi- tors, become prisoners, in fact, and then aver they have been somewhere, for fear of losing caste. The Risley party at the Falls, taking it altogether, was a little representative world in itself, and afforded Mosely, who loved to study human nature, materials for thought and entertainment. He had a ready perception of thp cha- radcer of people and their weakness and good qualities; and was, at the same time, philosopher enough to under- stand how little unmixed evil or good there is in the world. This made him charitable in -his view and estimate of in- dividuals. He made himself agreeable, therefore, to the party among whom he had been accidentally thrown, and in re- turn', they treated him in a friendly manner. He was par- ticularly polite to Lanabere's betrohed, and she learned to esteem him. He conversed-about fashionable life with Mrs Risley; about stocks and politics with her husband; danced and promenaded with the Misses Browns ; talked of the power of money, and New England capitalists, with Mr. Brown; of Boston Common, Bunker Hill Monu- ment, and the greatness and beauties of Boston to Mrs. Brown; descanted on the late grand comet, and the new discovery of suspending a pendelum to demonstrate the motion and gldbular form of the earth, to Miss Harrington; commented on system of education, to Mr. Silman ; spoke of the glory of authorship to Mr. White, of literature to Mr. Bixby, and endeavored to make himself agreeable to the -                      s   Io6       The Dian:oni. Cross. sympathetic, good-looking widow, Mrs. Lovejoy, on the subjecct of affinities and attrations. Mr. Roland was less sociable than any of the rest, yet le  was not absolutely unsociable., Notwithstanding his affa- . bility of manner, there appeared to be something of a feel- 3 ing in him like that one notices in a person who regards another as a'e troop or in the way. His politeness was im- 3 perturbable. Whenever he met Mosely he had a polite smile on his face, but it was the same always-a stereo- typed smile, mere politeness, and that often overstrained. Mosely tried him in conversation on fast horses, the opera,  I New York society, and other topics he thought most agree-  able to him, and Mr. Roland responded intelligently and  I free, but he rarely advanced a subject or expatiated on the one- introduced; and indeed, he seemed to seek the society of all others in preference to that of Mosely. "This man is an enigma," thought Mosely, for his keen eye perceived there was -something behind the surface of such apparent affability. "He is a thorough man xof the world, and his own secrets lie buried deep from the sight of others. I think it would be more agreeable to him if I were not acquainted with his party. But, why? What can  I be his motive? From what can such feeling arise? When  i I overheard Miss Risley speak of me in kind and flattering  terms, he replied, in the coolest half sneering manner, i"Yes, he looks like a respectable Southerner, and seems to be tolerably intelligent. The way in which this was said conveyed ,more meaning than the words, and I believe he regards me with no favor." Mosely had no desire to cultivate the acquaintance of Mr. Roland, nor did he care to know what his feelings or views were in any respect. But he could not help thinking it remarkable, that a person, to whom he was a stranger a day or two previously, and to whom he had been properly introduced, would have any prejudice or ill feeling against himself. He dismissed Mr. Roland from his mind, con-   The Diamond Cross.       107 cluding that if he was right in his conjeCture time would develope it. The Risley party, thus composed of wealthy, fashionable, fast.- literary and scientific representative characers of New York and Boston, with a fortunate millionaire foreigner added, and having a love affair with the prospect of an early marriage in their circle, were the sensation, as they  had expected to be at the Falls. The landlord of the hotel gave balls to honor them, and studied in every way to gratify them, and the servants were more assidious in their attentions to them than to the other guests. All the world called upon them, the pile of visit- ing cards swelling daily to a little heap. No monarch was ever more proud of his power than Mrs. Risley of her reign. She had struggled hard and long to reach this pinnacle of glory, but had been kept dodwn in New York by the Knick- erbocker aristocrats, till the advent of her daughter into Society, their connection with the rich Frenchman, and the extraordinary success of her husband's speculations, placed the sceptre in her hand. She began to reign over a limited circle in New York immediately after she returned from Europe, and ruled in a certain sphere in Boston and Nahant, but now she was at the plenitude of her greatness. Like other ambitious potentates, however, she could not be fully satisfied until she should be able to display her power in the metropolis itself, in the face of her-Dutch enemies who had subdued her as a parvenue. The party were generally seen together, riding out, walk- ing, or at entertainments, and were every where; in fadt, they almost monopolized Niagara. It was evident that this sort of gregarious life in public, so agreeable to most Americans, did not accord with Lana- bere's taste, for though he had lived in the gay city of Paris, he had been a student, 'and he preferred more repose and intellectual enjoyment. His own taste would have led him to be more with Mosely, enjoying quietly the grand natural   Io8       TShe Diamond Cross. scenery that surrounded them ; but, as the lover of Miss Risley, he was necessarily her chief companion in the con- tinual whirl of excitement; and as she enjoyed it he studied to gratify her. Then he would have been happier could he have been more retired with her, as when he oas a visitor  at her home. Perhaps he was stimulated, too, to be more v  constant in his attentions, finding that whenever he was 4  not with her Mr. Roland took his place. Not that he could admit he was jealous, for he had no doubt of her devotion to himself. Nor did Mr. Roland evince anv desire to rival him,but, on the contrary, was in the habit of politely retir- ing and leaving the lovers whenever Lanabere made his appearance. Still Lanabere experienced a sensation of -annoyance -on discovering that gentleman always near Miss Risley when he appeared. Mosely not having an opportunity of conversing intim- ately with Lanabere, as he used to converse with him, ex- cept on the day of Lanabere's arrival, he was not displeased, therefore, when that gentleman entered his room one evening and proposed a walk to Goat Island and the Falls. "I will accompany you with pleasure," sa'd Mosely, f or we have had few opportunities for a quiet, social chat. But this bright and beautiful evening should be a time for lovers to walk. Why did you not invite Miss Risley? You seem to he little with her away from the crowd of  X others. However, while I might wish you to have the    i greater pleasure of her company, I do not deny the gratifi- cation I shall feel in a friendly walk and conversation."  "Miss Risley is indisposed," replied Lanabere, " and I fear the constant excitement in which she is kept is the, cause of her indisposition. She seems to love the gayeties of society, yet I think she might prefer less of them, and might enjoy sometimes more quiet pleasures. I walked with her to the falls once, on just such a charming evening as this, and she was delighted. Not only was the change ,.   The Diamond Cross.       Iog agreeable, but she appreciated and enjoyed the scene. I would have her be happy in society, but I think both of us would be happier out of so nuch frivolous fashionable tur- moil." Lanabere's heart being a little heavy, and he being near a friend whose sage advice he had previously profited by, he communicated freely, as they walked along, -what his plans for the future were. He informed Mosely of his purpose to marry Miss Risley in the autumn. He said that, although he had some misgivings as to the prudence of marrying so soon after his arrival in a strange country, and in the family, of those who were strangers to him till he became acquainted with them accidentally on the voy- age to America, he had followed the bent of his feelings rather than the promptings of his judgement, and was en- gaged to be married. "I am, he said, "of a passionate and an impulsive na- ture; and this beautiful girl has fascinated and led me away captive. I believe she loves me, and I ought to be supremely happy; yet when I examine my heart I find I am nobso happy or so contented as when I first perceived the dawning of my love, before I went to Louisiana. I know not why I am not, or what should prevent me being so. She is charming, accomplished and loving: any one might envy me, the happiness I am soon to realize. I have wealth and a bright future before me, and I nced not have any anxiety about the responsibilities of married life. I have-arrived at that age when a man ought to marry, and I have no one to control me in such a matter, I cannot see, then, what there shauld be to cast a shadow over my existence or prospeAs; yet, with all this to make me colin- tented and joyous, I feel at times an indefinable uneasiness."' "That," replied Mosely, " may arise from excessive sen- sibility alone, which would not be unnatural in the least in a man of your temperament, and under the prospedt of such a change in the condition and habits of life. You have    IIO       The Diamond Crolss. the mreans to make yourself happy, and I hope you will be so. No one can judge for you in the matter ; you know your own heart. If Miss Risley loves you as you love her-and you believe she does-and she is going to marry from the same proper motives that influence you, I do not see why you should not be a very happy man. If you are fully satisfied of that let your mind be at ease." - "I cannot doubt," responded Lanabere, " and yet-I would rather see her less devoted to the excitement of what is called fashionable life, and more companionable with me, as she was when we first became acquainted." "Besides, my friend, I find little congeniality in this party who are with us, and by whom I am surrounded. I long for a renewal of such agreeable hours as I spent with you on the voyage. Here, where there is so much to raise our thoughts and awaken our smpathies, how delightful it would be to have friends of a refined nature and cultivated taste to commune with, instead of running round with this mere sight-seeing, gregarious company. I have stolen an hour occasionally to contemplate this scene alone, but have been accompanied generally by the party. You may judge what have been my impressions when hurried to and fro before this great wonder of nature with such an unsympa- thizing crowd." Brown and Mr. Risley discuss the magnificent water pow- er of the Falls, as adopted for machinery; the young ladies, the feat of Sam Patch jumping down the roaring flood, till they beeame nervous and turn away in disgust at the "frightful thing;" and the learned Miss Harrington cal- culates the number of buckets of water that pass over and wonders if there are any Niagaras in the moon Such are the party with whom I have associated in the midst of this sublime scenery. The only one who seemeed to have any sympathy with me was Mrs. Lovejoy; and she spoke in a strange, enigmetical sort of way about departed spirits making this place of rendezvous for their gambols,   The Diamond Crozs.       II consultations, and communications with the material world. Notwithstanding the extravagance of such language there was some poetry in the idea, which was not inappropriate, and showed Mrs. Lovejoy had a soul. You see what my experience at Niagara has been. During this walk Lanabere was like a man sfddenly set free from confinement or emancipated from disagreeable restraint, and gave vent to his feelings in enthusiastic lan- guage. The presence of a congenial companion, the balmy summer's night, the light of the moon, which illum- inated the surface of the lake and river, making it appear like a vast stream of molten silver, the solitude of their  path, under the. shadow of forest trees and by the roaring water; the deep silence that reigned unbroken, save by the, rushing and falling flood, and the sublime spectacle of the cataract-all united to inspire him. He never enjoyed a happier hour, and it was his fate, perhaps, never to enjoy one so happily again. After they returned to the hotel, and Mosley had retired to his apartment, Lanabere's conversation recurred to his mind. "Lanabere," he thought, " reminds me of those persons I have read of, who, under the influence of an ir- resistible fascination, threw themselves into the vortepx of Niagara, and were swept away. He yielded to his pas- sion for Miss Risley till he was fully within the current that carried him and is carrying him along to an uncertain fate. To happiness, I hope; yet, he is struggling in the stream, under an indescribable presentment that the pro- spect is not so flattering as he formerly supposed. I do not know that he is in danger, and if I did, he is beyond my reach. I have no right to give advice, had I any foun- dation to doubt the wisdom of his course, I can only' wish him well. While Mosely was at Niagara two things happened that changed to some extent the friendly relations between Lanabere and himself, and that terminated- his acquaintance with some of the Risley party.   rl2       The Diamond Cross. Mrs. Bright, the lady who had introduced Mosely to Miss Howard, and who was the friend of both, lost her servant at the Falls through the agency of those Mhosely was acquainted with. The servant was a slave, born in Mrs. Bright's family, and her mistress, being much attached to her, was distressed about the loss and fate of the girl. Mr. Bright not being at the Falls with his wife at the time, she appealed to Mosely, as her friend and a Southerner, to aid in rescuing this servant. The girl having found an op- portunity of communicating with her mistress from Canada, where she was carried and closely watched; Mosely was able through the agency of Louis Lanabere's servant, to provide a way for her return to Mrs. Bright. When the facts as to the aftion of Selman and others in the matter became known, they were freely discussed, -some taking one side and some another, one approving and the other condemning. This excited the feelings and predjudices of all, and led to coolness between Mosely and Lanabere and to a discontinuance of the acquaintance of the former with Selman and the other participators in the aduction. The conduct of Lanabere in this case which was in ac- cordance with his European anti-slavery views, appeared more unfriendly when taken in connedion with another circumstance that occured immediately after. Mr. Tem- pleton, the superintendent offhis plantation, was dead, and Selman was appointed to take the place. Mosely thought that to employ this person in such a capacity, after what had occurred, evinced not only weekness in Lanabere, but a want of proper regard for the friendship professed to him- self. While he had no disposition, and did not consider he had any right, to interfere with, or trouble hims'elf about Lanabere's business, he- did not think this was a strange way of showing friendship. Up to this period Lanabere had sought the advice of Mosely in his affairs, as one friend of another. But, he seemed to forget then, under the influence of the Risley party and his precon-   7The DiZamond Cross.      113 ceived prejudices, Mosel/'s kindness and counsil. Their last interview at the Falls, consequently, was much less cordial than their intercourse had begn before, and it was a short one. No allusion was made to Mr. Templeton's death and Selman's aplpointmcn, or to any other matter of a private nature. They did not part, how- ever, witliout Lanabere paying Mosely the compliment of inviting him-to his wedding the following month, and to his plantation residence the next winter. ,         ,.   I14       The Diamond Cross. CHAPER X'I. There was one person at Niagara whom Mosely fre- quently visited, for she was the friend of Miss Howardt and had introduced him to that lady ; that was Mrs Bright. She was warmly attached to Miss Howard, and was pleased, whenever an opportunity occurred, to speak of her in unreserved ecomiums ; and Mosely was always a 'gratified listener. This lady noticed the deep interest he manifested in her friend, and some-times rallied him on the subjec5 ; telling him frankly, however, that she believed Mr. O'Donnell was the lover of Miss Howard. "I may admire her, notwithstanding," he would say, in reply to such remarks. "I cannot help admiring her, though I may not be permited to indulge a deeper feeling. While I have not presumed to entertain a hope of being anything more to arer than a passing acquaintance, I may recall her image to rny mind 'as I would some beautiful creation of the imagination." Mosely had no thought in these conversations, or by making such remarks, of enlisting Mrs Bright's kind offices in his favor. They were spontaneous, and he did not sup- pose for a moment, or expect they would have any effedt, s or be communicated to the objeEt of them. But women exercise a great deal of influence over friends of their own sex in the incipient stages of love or courtship; not so much in a direct manner as by frequent remalks in con- versation or correspondence which seems to be incidental. They have great ta& in this respe&, and use it with re- markable skill whenever they feel interested in serving any one. Mrs Bright who was kind and genial, and highly esteemed Mosely, mentioned him in flattering terms in hei   The Diamond Cross.       II5 correspondence with Miss Howard. It is true she had no diric5l purpose in this, for she really believed Mr. O'Don- nell was her friend's lover ; nor did she inform Mosely of , what she said in her letters. Although Mosely received such little encouragement to hope, either from the words of Mrs Bright, or his own re- fledions, his thoughts were constantly dire5ed to Miss Howard, and when he left Niagara, his-steps inclined the same way. He took the route by the lake, Cleveland and Pittsburgh, to Virginia. He Mnight have gone this way because it was shorter than New York and Baltimore, or for the purpose of varying his travels; but itAhappened to be the route that led him near the residence of Mr. How- ard, that gentleman living a short distance from the road, and not far from the Virginia line, in one of the beautiful valleys west of the Blue Ridge, and east of the Alle- ghanies. Neither when he started, nor on the way, did he decide whether he would visit Miss Howard or not at her home; he only thought it possible some favorable} accident might give him an opportunity of seeing her. No false delicacy or sentimental affection influenced his condudt, and when he had a definite and proper object in view, he would ap- proach it without hesitation. But he had only a slight acquaintance with Miss Howard and her parents, and he was precluded from the thought of addressing her as a lover, believing Mr. O'Donnell occupied that position.- there was a doubt on his mind, therefore, as to the pro- priery of making a special visit after such a short arid slight acquaintance with the family. Yet he could not suppress the desire to see her, as he found himself travelling in the direfion of her residence, under-the impulse of a vague indefinable motive. He arrived at the village near which Mr. Howard re- sided, (his direct route being through-it), in the afternoon, and he concluded to stay over night. This village lay   IT6       The 2Diamond Cross. nestling in a small valley, surrounded by spurs of the great parallel mountain chains on the east and west, and was a charming spot. Those who have been in the valleys lying among these mountains spurs between the Alleghallies and Blue Ridge, particularly in the setion of country now re- ferred to, where the States of Virginia and Pennsylvania are separated only by a' narrow strip of Maryland, know how picturesque the villages, hamlets, residences, and gen- eral features of the country are. The beautiful and un- rivalled autumnal tints of our American fall were spread already over the forest trees, when Mosely arrived in that part of the country. All nature seemed to invite him to stay, and repose, for the night at least, amid such delightful ^ scenery. After refreshing himself, he sauntered through the village. When at a short distance from the post-office, he saw a lady and gentleman, well mounted, canter up to that place, every villager saluting them as they passed. As soon as the gentleman had handed some letters to the postmaster, he and his companion took the road in which Mosely was walking.- They had not proceeded many paces when he recognized Miss Howard and Mr. -O'Donnell. "It is Mr. Mosely," said Miss Howard to 'Mr. O'Don- nell, as Mosely saluted them and they bowed in return. 'Suddenly stopping their horses, Mr. O'Donnell said, "this is an unexpected pleasure to meet you here Mr. Mosely. To what thrtune accident are we indebted for it?" Mosely replied that he was on his way from Niagara to Virginia, had taken that route as being shorter, and a rnre agreeable one, and was going to- remain over to rest for the night in that quiet place. "But I hope, Mr. Mosely," Miss Howard said, "you will not pass so near our residence without visiting us. My father and mother will be glad to see you, and we shall A dl1 give you a cordial welcome. It is hardlytwo miles to the   Tihe Diamond Cross.       I 7 house, and my father will send a carriage for you if you . will honor us with your company this evening." "I am happy in having met you, Miss Howard, and you also Mr. O'Donnell," responded Mosley, " and I accept with pleasure your kind invitation. But I will not trouble your father to send a carriage. The distance is short, and and as it is such a charming evening I prefer walking. I will not detain you, however, for it would be tiresome to ride so slowly, and your horses seems to be impatient." Mr. O'Donnell offered his horse, but Mosely declined to accept it. After riding by his side, conversing, till they reached the brodw of a hill, where they could show him the house and the way, they cantered off in advance. As Mosely watched Miss Howard ride gracefully along, her horse seeming proud of the rider, till she was lost to view amid the forest trees, his heart was agitated. "  Why did I come here to be tormented?" he said to himself. "To be the witness of her devotion to another, when I would give the world to be in his place? She looks more charming than ever. I thought her beautiful when I saw her first at the Falls, more so afterward in the ballroom, and now more charming still. Every new phase in which she appears heightens her charms ; and every-- thklg she says or does is equally charming as her per- son." He walked along musing thus till he came to the house. Mr. Howard met him at the garden gate,.gqke him a hearty welcome, and conducted him in. The hospitable old gen- tleman, insisted on sending to the village tavern for his baggage, and would not hear of any excuses or objections. In faft he had already ordered-the servant to be prepared to go, and he despatched him without further ceremony. Mrs. Howard was equally kind and polite. Though Mosely was familiar enough with such afts of hospitality, and the frank and genial manners of such peo- ple, for these were characteristic traits in the planters and   farmers of his own State and Maryland, he was particular- ly impressed by these attentions at the home of Miss How- ard. Mr. O'Donnell, too, though apparently less genial than Mr. Howard, was very courteous. Few words had passed between that gentleman add Mosely while they were at Niagara, and the latter had not formed any opinion of the former, beyond that he was an educated, well bred man, with some reserve in his manner; but now he found him more free and sociable. Mosely had not been many minutes in the house before Miss Howard entered the parlor. She cordially' extended her hand to him, and, smiling, said, I suppose, Mr. Mosely, we are indebted to our ride to the post office for the pleas- ure of your company. We frequently ride over to the vil- lage, and as the great post road runs through it we occa- sionally catch a friend, as we caught you. So you must be careful, should you pass this way again, and not wish to be detained, not to walk in the street, or near the post office." There was such an arch humor mingled with kiriness in these words that Mosely felt rather embarrassed. What could he say? He had laid already he was on the way home by this route because it was the shorter one, and that he was merely going to stay the night over at the vil- lage to rest. He scarcely would admit to himself the secret motive that led him, almost unconsciously, so- near Miss Howard's residence, and how could he confess it to her? If he had said he intended to visit her it would not have been the truth, for he had not concluded to do so, and yet to pass that way without calling, after the invitation he re- ceived at Niagara, would not seem polite or gracious. Being naturally frank, and soon recovering his self-posses- sion, he replied, "You have doubly caught me, Miss How- ard. I must confess I did not come this way without some hope of seeing you; and though I had not any definite purpose, I think your residence being near the village, had   'lhe Diaiond Cross. more to do with my stay here than the necessity for rest."  "You have exculpated yoursplf very well, and like a , polite gentleman," said Miss Howard, still somewhat arch- Jy, " and we will give you full credit for it, while we wel- come you to our country home." There was not the least taint of coquetry or boldness in these remarks. They were expressed with an easy grace and good nature. Her fine taste and quick perception, which enabled her to detect readily little inconsistencies were happily blended with humor, kindness, modesty and frankness. Then, she was the queen of that little domain, and said and did whatever she pleased, so devoted were, her parents, friends, and the servants to her. With a nature different to hers, such indulgence might have creat- ed haughtiness or forwardness in chara&er and manners, but the effect produced on her was quite different. It gave a graceful ease, and inspired ingenousness and warm affec- tion. "You have a very warm friend in Mrs. Bright," continu- ed Miss Howard to Mosely; " she mentioned You in her letters to me. She is a noble-hearted and sensible woman, and you must have found her very agreeable." "She was the most congenial acquaintance founubat Niagara, after you left," replied Mosely, " and I am h. pp/ to hear she entertains a friendship- for me. She is n uc i attached to you also, and frequently spoke of you with great affertion. "She was at the. Convent school with me the first ycar I was there," added Miss Howard, " and we soon became friends. I knew no one at the school, and she approached Mre so affeicnately that she won my heart. Though she wwas several years my senior we mutually confided in anc assisted each other. And I having no sister, or very in- timate lady friend beside herwe have continued to cherish the friendship formed at that time."   20o.       The Diamond Cross. An intermediate friend often exercises great influence in the development - of the affections. Kind words ex- pressed by one friend to another of a third party creates esteem for the latter.. Mrs. Bright's expressions of regard for Mosely might have had such an effet upon Miss Howard, She certainly was very complaisant, and treated him more like an old acquaintance than a new one. Miss Howard having been informed by Mrs. Bright, in the course of their correspondence, of the occurrences and gossip at Niagara,. and having heard in this way of the arrival there of Mosely's friend, Lanabere, and of the extravagant reports concerning the sudden and strange manner he came to his wealth, as well as to the amount of it, she exhibited some curiosity to know more about these matters. Mosely perceiving this, gave an account of the manner in which he became acquainted with Lanabere, while crossing the Atlantic, and then related the story of that gentleman's good fortune, the bequest of Mr. Bouverie, his uncle, the singular nature of Mr. Bouverie's will, the mystery connedt- ed with the uncle, and his settlement in Louisiana, the conflict between Lanabere's opinions, and his interest with regard to the slave,property, and Lanabere's journey to and experience in Louisiana. Miss Howard listened to the narrative with a good deal of attention, and remarked at its conclusion, "It is like a  romance, Mr. Mosely. The French gentleman is very for- tunate in coming to the possession of such a fine estate; so unexpectedly, and without costing him any labor or thought. Then the love affair between him and the fashionable New York belle adds great interest to the story." No one of the family, however, appeared to be so much interested in what Mosely related as Mr. O'Donnell. His countenance changed, and he looked by turns pale, and ab- sorbed in thought, and flushed with anger, as if some secret passion were struggling in his breast. He asked many   -aI      She Diamond Cross.       121 questions about the time Mr. Bouverie first went to Louis- iana, his former name, Lanabere's personal appearance, and other matters relating to those persons and the pro- perty. Mosely was surprised at Mr. O'Donnell's intense curio- sity and peculiar manner. He did not think there was anything so very extraordinary in what he had related to excite any one, least of all an experienced gentleman of the world like Mr. O'Donnell. Then, there appeared to be something more than mere curiosity agitating his mind. Mosely gave him all the information he possessed. Nor were Miss Howard and her parents less surprised than Mosely at Mr. O'Donnell's agitation, for they too d noticed it                   . "You seem moved by this story, Mr. O'Donnell," said Miss Howard. "Do you know nmy of the parties?" "No, Laura," he replied; "I am not acquainted with any of them. Some painful circumstances were brought to my mind while Mr. Mosely was speaking, and these, probably, more than the narrative itself, affected me." "But you asked particularly about the individuals," re- joined Miss Howard; " about Mr. Bouverie, or Mercier, and Mr. Lanabere. One might suppose you are specially interested in their history." Mr. O'Donnell was embarrassed,. evidently, and he an- swered, rather sadly and impatiently, "No, no, Laur ; I do not know these people. You misinterpret, probably, my apparent abstraftion of agitation."    . Seeing it was not an agreeable subject, [Miss Howard delicately turned the conversation to another one. Mr. O'Donnell remained absorbed in thought. and re- tired early that evening. No allusion was made to the change that had, come over him after he left the parlor, except in a slight half inaudi- ble remark from Mr. Howard, " that it was very strange." Miss Howard especially, avoided making any comment.   I22       The Diamond Cross. Mr. ODonnell was treated with great respe5l by all the -family, while at the same time there -existed that freedom of intercourse which intimate friends hold with each other. Miss Howard was more familiar with him than her parents were, and evinced more consideration for him than they did. Indeed, she appeared to study his wishes and feelings at all times as a lover or fond child would study them; and he in return, manifested much tender regard for her. Mosely saw with what tenderness Mr. O'Donnell regar- ded Miss Howard, particularly once, while he was elating to them the incidents of Mr. Bouverie's life and Lanabere's visit to Louisiana. It was at the moment when Mr. O'Donnell appeared so much moved by the narrative that Mosely noticed his eyes fondly fixed on Mss Howard. Then, how affectionately and familiarly that gentleman pronounced the name of "Laura." All this Mosely re- volved in his mind, and was painfully disturbed. He had not the least doubt then that Mr. O'Donnell and Miss Howard were lovers. He wished he had. gone home by some other route, not near Miss Howard's residence. He felt indisposed to converse the remainder of the even- ing, and was glad when the hour for retiring arrived. "I act as imprudently as an erring child," Mosely said to'himself, when alone in his chamber; "I plunge myself into greater difficulties every step I take. The further I go the more difficult it is to Extricate myself. I struggle against a hopeless passion, and, at the same time, come near the object that feeds the flame. Why do I not fly, from rather than approach danger? Where is my philoso- phy? Of what use is my reasoning? I believed I had strength enough to resist the power, of this charm, and to quiet my throbbing heart, by calling upon my reason and by simply saying ' Peace, be still;' but I have deceived myself. If this charming girl were less gracious to me I might contend better with my feelings; but she manifests 'such a kindly regard that my efforts are powerless. So  JC *    T he Diamond Cross.      123 agreeable is she that if I did not see her, devotion- to an- other I might indulge some hope. Yet she is not a coquet? no, she is as pure and natural as a child. Ah, she little knows what a captive I am!"    CHAPTER XII. -/Mr. Howard's residence was an old-fashioned country farm house, rather large, with prominent gables, and a wide balcony on the lower floor. The gardens were / not very extensive, but tastefully laid out, and contained a great variety of flowers and shrubs. The scenery around was beautiful, and in some points of view strikingly so. The mountains rose one over the other in detached masses, showing numbers of projecing and rounded peaks in dis- tant outline. A dense forest of noble-looking trees cover- ed the sides of the mountains and clustered in the valleys. Farm houses, cleared lands and extensive fields, of rich pasture were dotted over this landscape. From the house, which stood on an eminence, a fine view of all the surround- ing country was obtained.  Mosely, remembering the conversation he had with Miss Howard at Niagara, on the beauties of her own home, rose early in the morning to walk and enjoy the scenery that had so often given her pleasure. As he was strolling through the garden looking over the work that he supposed had been direEted by her taste, she appeared, coming from the house, to join him. "You rise early, Miss Howard," he said, as he went to meet her. "It gives me great pleasure to have your com- pany here, in your own charming garden, and on such a bright, delightful morning."    "It is my habit to rise early, Mr. Mosely," she replied; "and this morning I may have risen a little earlier than usual, for I saw you were up, and I wished to serve my credit as a gardener by coming to explain why the garden   The Diamond Cross.       $2 3 is not in as good order as it ought to be. I informedctyou I believe, that this is my particular domain ; and I remem- ber having indulged in some rather extravagant remarg. fs when at Niagara, about my country home. You are aware that, when one is away from home, affection for the loved place gives wings to the imagination. I feared you might take my excited incidental remarks in too literal a ;sense. The garden, however, is generally in a better condition than just now, for- though my gardener is skilful and- in- dustrious, I find it has been somewhat neglected during my absence." "You did not color the picture too highly," responded Mosely; " nor did I realize in thought what I now see, agreeable as your sketch was. Whichever way the eye turns all is charming ;and everything in your garden which contains a great variety of rare plants and trees, is arrang- ed with much taste. At the same time- it is qi'te large ' enough to beautify the residence and to afford you enjoy- ment. You have been fortunate in acolledting so many choice flowers and shrubs." "Mr O'Donnell," she answered, ' knowing my fondness of flowers, has been-kind enough to aid me in embellishing this little spot. Some of the rare plants he obtained from the botanical conservatory at Washington, and others he collected on his travels." ' He is a gentleman of taste," said Mosely, " and must be very happy in contributing to the enjoyjment of -one who appreciates so well ,his. kind attentions. I think you-told' me he seledted your library also. How agreeable it must be to have such a friend I And I have no diubt he feels fully rewarded in the happiness you- afford him." ,  There was more meaning conveyed in these words than Miss Howard appeared to comprehend; yet she looked at Mosely in rather an inquiring manner, as'if she thought they were somewhat pointed .....   x i6      The Diamond Cross. "Mr O'Donnell," She said,"a has been the same constant and attentive friend since I was a child, and I appreciate highly his kindness. He is cultivated, refined and gener- ous. You would like him much if you knew him well, Whenever his affairs permit him to be absent from home he visits us; and we often have the pleasure of his company. He is charmed with our mountain scenery and delights in field sports, particulary in hunting. There are a number of foxes in this part of the country, and he frequently col- lects the neighbors around, with their dogs, to enjoy the hunt. If you like the sport, I hope he will give you an opportunity of enjoying while you are here." He replied that it was a sport he greatly enjoyed and should be happy to join Mr. O'Donnell in it, but thought the season not sufficiently advanced ; and, besides he-had only come to make a visit of a few hours. "I hope you have not concluded to go so soon, Mr Mose- ly," she answered. "We will endeavor to make your stay agreeable. Unless engagements call you away, my father and mother would hardly excuse you for leaving to-day. But as you have lived so much in great cities and the busy world, you may find the country monotonous and tire- some." "On   the contrary," responded Mosely, "I am more happy when away from the turmoil and artificial existence of crowded populations, and love the repose and pure en- joyments of such an Arcadian spot as this. True I ap- preciate the fascinations of art, the monuments of intellect, and the contests of superior minds, witnessed only in great and populous centres ; but I find my purest enjoyments in the country. Many times during my residence in Paris, I left the gay city to seek temporary repose in some of the quiet villages in its environs. And here not only does the beauty of surrounding nature invite me to stay, but there is the charm of your society to entice me. , She smiled and said, with some pleasantry :--"I hope,   27e Diamond Cross.       1?27 then, my father will know on what ground to baze his arguments and place his lever of persuasion." In this manner they conversed, as they walked, occasion- ally gathering flowers and presenting them to each other, till breakfast was announced. M osely enjoyed some happy moments, during that hour, but they were only transitory ; -and his heart was the more heavy when the thought often recurred, like clouds that chase along, obscuring the rays of the sun, that she, the idol of his soul, loved another. A man in such a situation is fitful minded ; at one time -he reasons against hope, and at a another hopes against reason. Mosely experienced just such perturbations of thought, and of hope and fear. "She makes herself very agreeable to me," he reflected; "she seems anxious I should prolong my visit ; but that arises, doubtess, from her natural politeness and kinddisposition. Mr. O'Do1- nell appears to favor rather our pleasant intercourse than to obje&6 to it ; but that naturally proceeds from a sense of the amenities of life, and from the security he feels in the possession of her love. I have no reason to suppose she regards me otherwise than an agreeable visitor, yet my heart would prompt me to foolishy interpret her affability as meaning something more. How ready we are to catch at trifling circumstances and construe them in our. favor when the heart is interrested. I am like a reed before the wind, swayed irresistibly to and fro, and can never smooth my feelings; nor fly from the fascination." , While af breakfast Mosely spoke of leaving in the after- noon. Both Mr. and Mrs Howard expressed a desire that he would prolong his visit ;'the former especially pressed him, in a frank, hospitable manner, -not to leave till he could see more of the country and enjoy a hunt, adding, by way -of giving force to his persuasions, that he had already 'sent to invite some of his sporting neighbors to come over and make arrangements for a hunting party.   ads       lie utamonad Cross., Seeing these good people expeting a longer visit and that they had taking steps to entertain him, Mosely thought it would not be polite to insist upon leaving that day. especially as he could not plead having engagements to call him away. Thanking them, therefore, for their hospi- tality, he accepted their kind invitation. When he announced this Miss Howard smiled and said, "I am gratified that my father has succeeded in persuad- ing you to remain, and, remembering your pretty speech in the garden, I feel quite flattered."- Mr. O'Donnell appeared absorbed in thought, as on the previous evening, and was not communicative. After breakfast, however, he invited Mosely to take a ride with him as far as the village and to some of the neighboring farm houses. Turning to Miss Howard at the same time he said. "I ,would invite you too, Laura, but I wish to converse with Mr. Mosley alone: and as I shall leave for Baltimore this afternoon, I can take the opportunity our ride will af- ford to introduce him to several of the gentlemen among our acquaintances who will contribute in making his visit to the country agreeable." All the family were astonished, and none more so than Mosely was, to hear him say that he would leave that day. "This announcement of your departure is unexpedted," Miss Howard said, addressing Mr. O'Donnell in an affec- tionate tone: "I hope your mail yesterday did not bring unpleasant tidings, to hurry you from us thus suddenly?" "I have heard some important news, Laura," he said, gazing at her affectionately, , and I must leave you for the present I will return as soon as possible. In the mean- time, I hope you will be compensated for my absense in the society of Mr. Mosley." A sad and thoughtful expression overcast her bright countenance, but she made no responce. Mr. and Mrs. Howard looked surprised, and Mosely was puzzled.        ^6   Thle Diamonnd Cross.       129 The horses being ready, Mr. O'Donnell and Mosely mounted and rode off. When they reached the road the former said, " your conversation last night, Mr. Mosely, opened to my view some important matters connedted with my own family. I sought this opportunity to hear again what you then said, and to make some inquiries. The information you possess with regard to Mr. Lanabere's estate, and the history or that gentleman s uncle, Mr. Bou- verie, was not communicated to you as a secret, I suppose, or in such confidence that you' are precluded from speak- ing of these matters." "I did not understand there was any such restriAion placed upon me, or any necessity for it," replied Mosely, t" for if I had so understood the matter I should not have related the story. I merely recounted to you, as to stran- gers, incidents that appeared interesting and' romantic in themselves. It is true Mr. Lanabere informed me of his uncle's history, as far as he knew it, in the way of friendly communication, and I know not whether he has made any other person acquainted with it; but I did not regard it as confidential, nor do I suppose he intended it to be so." He then told Mr. O'Donnell more in detail what he had learned of Mr. Bouverie's history. "Do you,remember how many years Mr. Bouvere, who was formerly Mr. Mercier, lived in Louisiana?" asked Mr. O'Donnell. "About twenty years, I think, Mr. Lanabere said," was the reply. "And the relatives of Mr. Bouverie," resumed Mr. O'Donnell-' did not know whether he was married or not?" "They believed he never was married," said Mosely, "for he had written to his sister, Mr. Lanabere's mother, to that effect, or to say he never would marry. Still they thought it strange that, after having announced his ap- proaching wedding, and years passing before they heard from him again, he should then say he would never marry.   130       She Diamond Cross. Besides his long silence, and the change of his name and place of residence, left a painful mystery, which it was supposed had some connection with the lady he should have wedded. And since Mr. Lanabere visited the plan- tation he is convinced that this. lady. whoever she was, controlled the destiny of his uncle and had a lasting in. fluence over the mind of that gentleman. The portrait which Miss Templeton pointed out to Mr. Lanabere, and the remarks she made on Mr. Bonverie's peculiar manner, when showing it to her, confirmed his suspicions." "I did not hear you speak of a portrait before," re- marked Mr. O'Donnell. "Is that now at the residence of the late Mr. Bouverie?" "I understand it was left there," was the answer. "I should like to see the notes made by Mr. Lanabere." continued Mr. O'Donnell, "while he was. in Louisiana, which he sent you.'  6"I am willing to give you any information I possess, as you seem interested," said Mosely " but I do not think I am at liberty to show you these notes, which are in the form of friendly correspondence and contain expressions of private feeling, aud about personal experience, not in- tended for the eye of others." "I ask your pardon, sr," Mr. O'Donnell said, " for in- timating such a wish. I see it would not be proper to show me the correspondence. I was not aware of its nature ; but be kind enough to inform me where the plan- tation of the late Mr. Bouverie is situated, where the exe- cutors of the will live, and if you know where Mr. Lana- bere proposes to be for some time." Mosely informed him the plantation was up the Red River, in Louisiana ; that Mr. Ellis and Mr. Dubois, of New Orleans, were the executors, and that Mr. Lanabere would remain at the North, probably for some time. "And, now, Mr. Mosely," concluded Mr. O'Donnell, j "you have listened to my inquiries and kindly given me   The Diamond Cross.       3T1 what information you could. I have to ask. the additional favor that this conversation and the cause of my departure may remain a secret. You are surprised, doubtless, at the interest I manifest in the history and affairs of Mr. Lana- bere's late uncle, I have important reasons for being so concerned. What these are I cannot communicate to you or to any other person at present. You must pardon me, therefore, for not making known my motive after having troubled you with -my questions. An extraordinary history has been partially revealed through your accidental con- versation, and I go to-day for the purpose of endeavoring to unravel the rest. You will, know some day, probably, more about it. I regret having to leave your agreeable society, but you can appreciate the motive and will excuse my departure. You will find Miss Howard a charming companion, Mr. and Mrs. Howard most kind and hospit- able, and the neighbours, to whom you will be introduced, will gladly assist in entertaining you and in promoting your enjoyment." After going to the village, where Mr. O'Donnell arrang- ed for his passage to Baltimore in the afternoon, they rode to the residences of several of the neighboring farmers. Mosely was introduced, and found the same characteristic kindness and hospitality everywhere as at Mr. How- ard's.    4 They spent the greater part of the day in visiting, for Mr. O'Donnell wished to make ACosely acquainted with most of his friends, Shortly after their return Mr. O'Don- nell left for Baltimore. All regretted his departure and and were perplexed as to the cause. ,     7      t'   132       The lDiamond Cross. CHAPTER XIII. It was said that every one at Mr. Howard's residence was sorry when Mr. O'Donnell left. Perhaps Mose- ly might have been expected, for he undoubtedly was grati- fied in becoming thus the sole companion, apart from the family of Miss Howard. It is true his intercourse with Mr. O'Donnell had been quite agreeable, as that- gentle- man was extremly courteous. Then, he had not the re- motest thought of indulging hope from the absence of Mr. O'Donnell. He was to proud and honorable for that.- Besides, he regarded Miss Howard's devotion to her sup- posed lover as impregnable. Why, then should he be gratified on seeing Mr. O'Donnell leave, when he could not think of being his rival? Strange inconsistency of love! How it dissorders the finest intelle5t, subordinates the reason, and makes the strongest mind fitful and wayward as a child ,! "A charming companion for me in his absence! Yes, Mr. O'Donnell said so," thought Mosely. "How well he appreciates her. How secure he feels. And I shall re- main here, sporting with my passion, like a foolish moth that flies round a flame, nearer and nearer, till its wings are schorched, and it falls a victim to its folly." Mr. O'Donnell's sudden departure excited a few remarks though all was surprised at it. The family pondered over it in their own minds, but had too much respeA for that gentleman to appear to be inquisitive about matters he did ndt think proper to explain. Mosely supposed from the questions he had asked, that he or his family had some mysterious connection withthe history of Mr. Bouvrie--   The Diamond Cross.      133 This thought he kept to himself, however, and made no further allusion to the subAft. The "golden hours flew over Mosely, as he walked with t\  Miss Howard in the early morning and quiet evening, as they promenaded in the garden, strolled by the limid brook that ran near the house, or wandered under the shade of the forest trees; while they rode over the surrounding country, mutually admiring the scenery, and when, at night, they read and conversed together in the library. It was like a delicious dream. Ulysses was scarcely more charmed by Calypso amidst her enchanting groves and bowers, than was Mosely by his bewitching companion in that delightful place.- Occasionally he woke up to a sense of his dangerous situ- ation, and for-a moment, thought of breaking the spell that bound him ; but the temptation to remain was too powerful. He could not but perceive the increasing in- terest she daily manifested in his society; and this, at the same time, gratified and perplexed him. The prominent features of his charadter were sufficently in contrast with hers to create mutual admiration. He was intellectual, full of experience, and inclined to be thoughtful and grave, though genial; she had a natural re- fined taste, uprightly and delicate wit, ingenuousness and' freshness of a child, a ready and correct appreciation of charadter, and a warm, confiding nature. His feelings were deep and strong as his mind was comprehensive, while she was sympathetic, tender and gentle. In gener- ous sentiment and matters of taste they were congenial. And although he was ten or eleven years her seinor, she found him more eompanionable than a younger man, for her chief society through life had been composed of those much older than herself. Mr. O'Donnell was at least twenty years older, and he had been her most intimate ac- quaintance. There was a great deal in the history of Mosely to make an impression on such a person as Miss Howard. Few   men had travelled more, or had seen and studied the world as much. He had not passed along the highway of life gathering trifles, but in storing his mind with whatever he found elevated and beautiful. She delighted to hear him relate his adventures and experience, and frequently led him into conversation, as they sat together, about him- self and his travels. She listened with deep tinterest to the story of his eventful life, which was calculated, 'to ex- cite emotions in her romontic soul. Then, there was, at times, a tendency to sadness in his nature, as if some cloud that might have hung over his earlier years were throwing back its shadow, which inspired sympathy. In every re- speEt they bore such a relation to each olter that the love whichhe felt might have become mutual had Mr. O'Don- nell not appeared to stand in the way. None of the neighboring country gentlemen had ever ventured to address Miss Howard. They admired and treated her with great respect, and even bosted of her abroad as the beauty of their country. The reason they did not essay to be lovers might have been the same that troubled Mosely, that is, the belief that Mr. O'Donnell was her accepted lover ; or it might have been that she was naturally so superior and so far above their ordinaryl level that they did not presume to indulge. in any other sentiment than that of respect. The ladies, too, of that section of the country liked her much, and spoke of her with pride and admiration; for she was not a rival for their beaux, and gave them no cause for jealousy or envy. . Social parties were given by the ladies in the vicinity to entertain Miss Howard and Mosely, and the gentlemen brought out their dogs and guns to amuse him in the field. Nothing, indeed, was left untried to make his time pass agreeably.- Fox hunting was a favorite sport among these people.   17te Diamond Cross.      135 Each gentleman kept a few hounds, and it was the custom, during the season, for two, three or more gentlemen to go out almost every fine morning. And when their dogs were collected together in this manner a considerable pack was formed. Occasionally Miss Howard and other ladies joined the sportsmen,.          '  A few days after Mosely arrived in the neighborhood the gentlemen made arrangements for a hunt, on a larger scale than usual, to gratify him. Mr. Howardinvited the party to take breakfast at his house when the morning's sport should be over. The custom of hunting in small social parties, without ceremony prevailed in Maryland and Virginia. Foxes could always be started in the setion of country spoken of, and almost every man was a hunter. There was none of the form or flourish here, as observed in England, in hunt- ing, nor any restrictive rules of a privileged class. It was the sport of the people ; every one participated in it.      . The morning appointed for the hunt broke clear and un- clouded, and not a breath of wind disturbed the silence that pervaded the valley. The air was sufficiently exhil- arating, without being cold. Before the sun had risen, just as aurora begun to chase the shadows of night from the east, the huntsman's horn sounded, reverberating in pro- longed echoes through the mountains. The hounds bayed in chorus, and the horses were inspired and restive, as if eager for the sport. Miss Howard had expressed the pre- vious night her intention of Joining the party, and Mosely found her ready to mount as soon as the dogs were unken- neled. At the start she gathered up the reins and sprang into the saddle with the ease and lightness of a practised rider. In a few minutes the whole party, which consisted of fifteen gentlemen and two ladies, were following the hounds. Mosely, as he rode by the side of Miss Howard, thought   13 U      The Diamond Cross. he had never seen her look more beautiful. The freshness of the morning and the excitement gave a glow and joyous brightness to her countenance that rivalled the aurora. Her dress a jacket and skirt of cloth--fitted admirably, and showed her fine form to advantage, while a dainty hat with its waving plume, set off the beauty of her face and head. She rode a handsome bay horse, which moved as if proudly conscious of the charming rider it bore. By the time they had ridden a mile or so, the rising sun threw its rays over the mountain tops, tipping them with gold, and rdring the whole scene, in its light shadows, and tints, delightful beyond description. Miss Howard looked at Mosely, as if watching his emotions, and said, "Let me recall to your memory, Mr. Mosely, my remarks at Niagara about the scenery around my home. It is not very beautiful? It may not impress you, who have seen the snow-capped peaks and resplendent icebergs of the towering Alps, and the more lofty and grand Andees, aniidst the gorgeousness of tropical nature, as it does me ; but you must confess it is truly charming this morning." "There are scenes more grand, doubtless," replied Mosely, " but the Alleghaines, at this season of the year, especially in the morning at sunrise, and in the evening when the sun sets, are unsurpassed in beauty. I know not where, on the whole, such a combination of beauty and granduer can be seen comparable with this. While the tops and slopes oflthe mountai is, and of the hills which form their spurs, are smooth and moulded in outline, giving a more agreeable than striking impression, the transperency of the atmosphere giving a surprising distinctness to the separate projecting masses. They loom up in their pro-* portions and altitude to the magnificence that would not be apparent under another sky. Every object here is dis- tint. One can almost count the branches and leaves of the trees on yonder hill, as the light of the sun's rays per-   The Diamond Cross.       I37 meates through them. Then, the rich and varied colors which now deck the East, and which are blended in an in- definable manner, as in the rainbow, are very beautiful.- See how these colors come up from the dark line of the horizon'in gorgeous splender, then spreading to the North and South, and above, in more mellow and softer lines, till gradually lost in the clear azure zenith and deep blue of the western sky. - This certainly cannot be surpassed in any part of the globe. Although the air-and the heavens favor the development of so much natural beauty this morning, such a scene is common in the Alleghanies. It is a familiar one to me, and my mind never tires in con- templating it." As ,they were conversing thus,'the hounds having scented the game, made the woods and valleys ring wih their deep mouthed clamor. The party felt the inspiration, quickened their speed, and spread themselves over the fields and lanes to see what direction the dogs would take, and to get a good view of the chase. They soon saw the fox that had been started cross the fields before them, and the hounds in hot pursuit. In a few minutes, however, Reynard, per- ceiving the danger he was in, plunged into the nearest woods for a place of refuge, and was lost to the sight of his pursuers. The sport had become exciting, and each one was eagerly pursuing the sly fugitive to discover his retreat and starthim aFain, when the chase and the pleasures of the dcly were Suddenly brought to an end by a serious accident. Amid the excitement when the fox was first seen, Mose- ly was separated from some of the party, among whom was Miss Howard and her father, by a fence that divided the. field ih which he was from the lane in whichl they were. Turning to rejoin this .party he spurred his horse to leap the fence. At the moment the horse gathered himself up to spring over there was a cry of danger from his friends, but it was too late. A ravine, which was hid from view by   the high weeds and brush that grew up by the fence, was I the danger seen by those in the lane, but which neither he orhis horse saw. The horse cleared the fence but not  . the ravine, and he and his rider fell with a terrible concus- 1 sion. There was but little water to break the fall, and the bottom was hard and pebbly. Mosely received several deep wounds in the head, and had his arm dislocated. His friends who were quickly on the spot, found him insensible and his head bleeding profusely. They thought at first his skull was fractured, and that he would not recover. One of the hunting party was a doctor, who, on examining the wounds, pronounced them severe, if not dangerous. Mose- ly was removed with great care to Mr. Howard's house, where his arm was set and his wounds dressed. Thus, unfortunately, ended the morning's sport, which opened so joyously and promised so much pleasure. Miss Howard was much distressed at this painful acci- dent and showed the most tender care for the sufferer. She left home full of joy and as bright as the morning it- self, and she returned dejected as if some heavy afilition had befallen her. When consciousness returned to Mosely he saw her bending over him with looks of compassionate sadness, which in spite of his suffering sent a thrill of in- describable happiness to his soul. All .the family were kind and watchful over him, but she especially. Each day during his illness she gathered fresh flowers for his room, and as soon as he began to recover she read to him what- ever soothed his mind or gratified his taste, and played the  music le loved to hear. WNhat a  ministering angel is a kind and refined woman to asick man! But who, except these who have experienced  it, can comprehend the exquisite pleasure realized by the presence and delicate attentions of one beloved'under such circumstances. When a  man experiencej the tender cares of the woman he loves, as Mosely did, as he is reco- vering trom a painful illness, his heart purified by the suf- I   The Diamond Cross.      139 ferings he has endured, what happiness on earth can be compared with that? Well might Mosely adorethe lovely girl who hovered round him while he was ill and when he was convalesant, like the watchful angels that we are told when children guard our slumbers. How he longed to break through the reserve of form and address her in the endearing language his heart prompted; to call her by her own sweet name. Lanra, that namn so dear to him, was on his tongue- a hundred times, and he was about to give it utterance: but the thought of Mr. O'Donnell and the respe& he consider- ed he ought to show both to him and to her as the lovers of each other, checked his impulse and sent a chill through his heart. He had Mrs. Howard say that when he was delirious with fever he called for Laura by name, and he thought how delightful it wauld if he could pronounce that name tamiliary under the delirium of his love. Only once, as far as he knew, did he address her in such a familiar manner, and that in a suppressed tone, when he was al- most unconcious of it. The sweet word stole from his month in a moment of grateful admiration for the kind at- tention she was paying him. He saw she noticed it, for she blushed, though evidently not in disapprobation, for her bearing afterwards was more affedionate than before. Prospero's charm worked scarcely more powerfully upon the Prince than did the accident to Mosely upon both his own heart and Miss Howard's. There was evidently a growing attachment on her part, and his passion . became  stronger every day. Still, Mosely constantly maintained his reserve under the steady.-belief that Mr. O'Donnell was her lover. Whenever Mr. O'Donnell's name was mentioned in con- versation, as it frequently was, Miss Howard' was 'n the habit of expressing great regard for him, and she exhibited much anxiety at his departure and during his absence. Then he communicated by letter every -day or two with   "O       The Diamond Cross. her. Mosely knew there was no tint of coquetry in her, and he attributed, therefore, the indications of attachment for himself, which he thought he saw, to another senti- ment than that of love. He could not think of weighing thesj appearances againat the evidences of her affection for Mr. O'Donnell. Governed, therefore, by these and his preconceived convictions he remained in ignorance, and suffered the torments of hopeless love, which at times cast a cloud of melanchoiy ever his mind. Imbued with such feelings and views he spent the few weeks during his convalescence in hours of alternate sweet enjoyment and fits of sadness. Oh, how delightful it was at one hour to be in the society of this charming girl-to gaze upon her -his soul's idol, and how wretched the next when the thought forced itself upon his mind that she loved another and never could be his. How potent is love! How blind and wayward are its subjects I   -The Diamond Cross.      I41 CHA'PTER XIV. Before Mosely had fully recovered an event occurred which disturbed, to some extent, the quiet and peace of Miss Howard's happy home-; an event which created, also, a painful and vague impression on Mosely's mind that there was some mystery connected with the history of Mr. Howard's family and Mr. O'Donnell's relations with it Mr. Howard's sister, Mrs. Sharp, and his nephew, Mr. Sharp, came from Tennessee at this time to visit the family. They brought the demon that was to disturb the happiness of their relatives, and their conduct had a great influence a over the future history of some of the happy circle they in- vaded. Mrs. Sharp resembled in no respect her genial, kind- hearted brother. She was a keen, plotting and selfish wo- man, who had little regard for the feeling or interests of others, and whose chief study was her own gratification and the wishes of her only child, the son referred to. Her mar- ried life had been a hard one, having had two husbands, the first of whom she was divorced from, and the other, after leading a fast, dissipated life, died in a lunatic asylum. It was said that her conduct and disposition led to or in- duced these misfortunes. She had been a widow many years, and though not adverse to marrying again, perhaps, no eligible suitor for her hand had presented himself after such an unfortunate experience. She was soured and dis- gusted with the world consequently, and regarded all men as heartless. Her disgust was the greater, probably, from the fast that she had been handsome, and from knowing that   even at forty-two she was still good looking. Though a weak woman in some respects, she was cunning, and had the tad and ability to deceive almost every one, except those intimately acquainted with her, as to her motives "and char- acter. Her voice was soft, and she spoke in a low tone ; and this, with a studied suavity of manner, led strangers to think she was a very excellent person. But a good judge of human nature could see the smirk in the corner of her mouth when she made an effort to smile, which had mingl- l  ed it with something like insincerity and a touch of con- temptuousness, indicating the evil spirit that lay concealed behind. Then her straightened pecuniary circumstances, caused by the dissipation of her husband and extravagant habits of her son, were not calculated to soften her nature or make her more amiable. Her son was a type of a spoiled child, and of a class of young men in the South who were brought up in idleness, who had no business or profession, and who spent their time about the hotels, in the billiard saloons, and sporting their figures in fashionable places. He was about twenty- five years of age, was good looking, and showed by his conduct that he was fully conscious of his personal appear- ance. He affected the airs of a fashionable man, and deemed himself the pink of southwestern chivalry ; in fact he was an exquisite in his way. Nashville, Memphis, or someother of the cities in that section of the country was the theatre of his performances. He was seen every day, just after he had taken breakfast at eleven o'clock, standing at the steps of a large hotel, smoking a cigar, or sauntering down a fashionable thorough- fare, to meet the ladies as they promenaded, with the ex- pecation of being admired, or with the hope of catching an heiress. On such occasions he was rigged in the most approved style- of the Southwest, with straight long and glossly black hair hanging down to his, shoulders ; a shining silk hat on the apex of his head pitched back from the   forehead, and resting on one side, which appeared in dan- ger of falling off every moment ; wearing the tighest clothes and thinest boots, and carrying daintily the smallest cane with a gold head. He had not travelled much, or far, but he loved to talk of his 'adventures, and of his success in winning the smiles or' favors of women. Whenever his acquaintances would listen to him, or he would get the ear of a stranger he boastfully repeated the oft told story of his travels in the Northwest; how in Chicago and in other places, he astonished the inhabitants by the dash he made; how he surprised the hotel keepers by his heavy bills, and how the people .on the streets used to gaze at him as he drove furiously along through the town, scattering all be- fore him. It must not be supposed, however, that with this affeetion of being fashionable, he was a tame sort of individual; on the contrary, he talked greatly of pistols, and the bowie knife, and carried them about his person; indeed, he was swaggering in his tone, and as sensitive to imagine insults, as the duelling editors of some of the Southern cities. Not long after the arrival of Mrs Sharp, and her son, at Mr. Howard's residence, it became evident they had come on business, as well as pleasure. The mother had intima- ted several times, in her letters to her brother, that when she would visit him, it was her intention to bring Dick with her ; always adding, that he had " sowed his wild oats," and ought to think of marrying. In her last letter she suggested in plain language, that a match between her son and Miss Howard, would be a nice arrangement, and very agreeable to her. Mr. Sharp had seen Miss Howard twice while she was a school girl and once since she had grown to womanhood. He admired her beauty; and knowing she would inherit his uncle's estate he fell in with his mother's views with- .dot any difficulty. She standing in the relation of first cousin, made no difference to him. A handsome girl and   a good farm, with the reported savings of Mr. Howard, were just what he wanted, and he had not the least doubt of obtaining them. Mr. and Mrs. Howard had not made any, response to Mrs. Sharp's matrimonial suggestions, nor had they in- formed their daughter of themh. They had no thought of  S interfearing with whatever choice Laura might make, for they had too much confidence in her good sense and taste to think she would love a man unworthy of her. They paid little attention, consequently, to their sister's intima- tions, leaving the matter of marrying to Laura herself and the future. The mother and son having arranged the matrimonial affair in their own minds, and to their own satisfaction before they started from home, it was not long after their arrival before they commenced to carry out their purpose. The mother praised her son, and insinuated, on suitable oc- casions, to Laura what a nice family arrangement an alli- ance between them would be, and happy she might be with him. He, on his part, put himself in the best attitude and made the greatest effort of which he was capable for mak- ing a conquest. Assuming the privilege of relationship he was very familiar, and addressed Laura at once with a freedom of manner in which hardly any one else would have ventured to address her, Miss Howard had seen but little of her aunt and cousin before this visit, and had not much knowledge of their characters. When they arrived she received them with all the affection due to such family connections, and treated them with marked consideration till she perceived their purpose.  Then she was annoyed and distressed, and in order to avoid a subjet so repugnant to her feelings- i which they persistently introduced--she was under the necessity of slunning their society when others were not present as far as Kindness and politeness would permit. As a natural consequence, she spent more of her time with   The Diamond Cross. ',      145 Mosely than she otherwise would, perhaps, while they were there, not only because it was more agreeable but to escape annoyance. Mrs. .Sharp noticed the preference Miss Howard showed for the society of Mosely, and was greatly chagrined. She condoled herself, however, in a measure with the thought that Mosely would soon leave, and that the field would be clear for the exercise of her skill and her son's devotion. Under the influence of this thought, she disguised her ill humor for time and waited anxiously the departure of the supposed rival of her son. Mr. Sharp entertained much the same sentiment with regard to Mosely, but he esteemed himself too highly to think his prosperts were in danger by the presence of that gentleman. He began to feel a passion for his cousin, which, perhaps, as stimulated more by Mosely's intimacy with her, and the difficulties he'had alraady encountered, than from any affinity with or capicity to love a person so far superior to himself. Obstacles, rather than the qual- ities of a woman, are likely to arouse the feelings of a man of such a nature. He attributed Miss Howard's reserve or tactit repulses when he approached her with complimen- tary expressions to maiden coyness ; for he was too vain to perceive that such insiduous advances were repugnant to her. Hardly anything short of a fiat refusal could un- decieve him, and he had not yet made a formal proposal. But as day after day passed in this uncerntainty, and he saw that the more he preserved, the more cold and pre- served she was ; he became irritated and jealous of Mosely. This led both him and his mother into conduct unbecoming persons in their situations, to acts of rudeness almost, at times. It was evident they began to perceive at last their cherished purpose and obje6 of their visit was not likely to be accomplished. All the family, and Mosely too, observed the change that had come over Mrs Sharp, and Mr. Sharp. Miss Howard   was distressed, but remained silent about it. Her father and mother were much annoyed on perceiving that Mosely had become the object of dislike, to their sister aud nephew for he was their guest, and they entertained a sincere friend- ship for him. They knew too, their daughter had a great regard for him. But Mosely felt quit indifferent, as far as he was concern- ed personally, about the jealously or ill humor of these persons. He thought they should be jealous of Mr. O'Donnell, and not of himself, if they had any cause or right ro be so at all. Still he was grieved to see Miss Howard, who had been so happy before, placed in such an embarrassing and unpleasant situation. From the delicate relation the parties occupied to each other, and he to all of them, he was precluded from offering such consol- ing remarks as his, heart would have prompted to the charming girl he loved so well. Mosely saw that this state of affairs was likely to end in a rupture between Mr. Howard's family and their visitors, but he little suspected the nature of the denouement that was to follow, or its consequences. As he was sitting alone one day on the balcony, the parlor window near him being open, he overheard a con- versation between Mrs. Sharp and her son, in the parlor, that surprised and gave him great uneasiness. He sup- posed the remarks made were intended for his ear, though not addressed apparently to him direftly, for he was near and in sight of the speakers and no other person was pre- sent. Besides, they were of such a charaler as might have been supposed to deeply interest him. The conver- sation was about Miss Howard, and from the tenor of it he understood that both mother and son were unusually irrit- ated, and that the cause was in something that had occurred' that morning between Miss Howard and Mr. Sharp. Mosely did not learn precisely what it was, bujt had no doubt, from what he did hear, that Mr. Sharp had pro-   posed to Miss Howard and that she had rejet5ed his offer. "Who is she that she should esteem herself so highly?" Mosely heard Mrs. Sharp say to her vson, with much ill humor.  "I know who she is not, and there are others who knew before they came to live here. My brother thinkls more of her than ot his own blood relations. An outcast of bad parents, most likely, whom they picked up because they had no children of their own." Mosely heard no more. Either the tone of their conver- sation was lowered or he was so staggered by these mys- terious words that he could not hear. "Can it be possible they meant Miss Howard?" he said to himself, as he arose from his seat, and walked away with a feeling of deep in- dignation that such bitter and revengeful words could be uttered of one so pure and lovely as she. ' They were talking about her; and Mrs. Sharp, mentioning her broth- er so plainly seems to show that her language referred to no one else that Miss Howard. What could this woman mean by saying Mr. Howard thought more of her than of his own blood relations? Is she not his daughter? Then those enigmetical words about knowing who she is not, and of others knowing this before they came to live here ; to whom could they refer? Haye they lived elsewhere? I imagined Miss Howard was born here on the old plantation home, and that this was an old family estate. No, I can- not believe she was the subject of her aunt's remarks. I must have been dreaming or must have misunderstood the words I supposed I heard." Nothing could shake Mosely's love for Laura; and, therefore, while he was distressed and perplexed at this incident, it only made him feel more devoted to her. At the time of this occurrence Mosely had sufficiently recovered from his accident to travel, and had announced his purpose to leave. As the day for his departure ap- proached Miss Howard looked depressed in spirit, and                         .*   seemed to cling to him as to a dear friend from whom she dreaded separation. He was conscious she esteemed'him, and believed that the many delightful hours they had spent together had inspired a feeling of warm friendship ; and had he not been persuaded in his own mind of her love for another, he might have thought such evidences of her regard sprang from a deeper and more delicate sentiment. How much he regretted, too, to leave her, especially since the conduct of her visiting relatives had become so annoy- ing, and because he had a vague, indefinable idea that the mysterious language of the vindicative Mrs Sharp foreboded unhappinass to her at no distant day! Still, neither his duties nor propriety would permit him to prolong his visit.   The Dianmond Cross.      I49 CHAPTER XV. During the last hours Mosely spent at the residence of Mr. Howard, it was his good fortune to have revealed to him the true relations that existed between Miss How- ard and Mr. O'Donnell, and to have the pleasure of learning there was no obstacle between his love and the idol of his heart. On the evening preceding his departure, which happened to be-one of those so delightful in the fall of the year, the air being balmy and all nature clothed with beauty, as the sun was going down in its gorgeous bed of purple and gold, Mosely and Laura were sitting together in-one of the arbors of the garden., Everything around them seemed imbued with soft emotion, and the flowers to exhale love. The hour and place favored the expression of that tenderness with which their souls were filled. But few lords were said at first by either, for the heart of each was pregnant with feelings struggling for utterance. He gazed at her fondly as she raised her eyes in sympathetic admiration. -A blush modestly suffused her fair face, (and she averted her eyes for a moment; but she looked at him still, for she was conscious of indulging no unworthy affec- tion, as if she would read the inmost thoughts'of his soul. Deeply impressed by the language thus silently expressed, the heavy weight that had pressed upon his heart was suddenly removed and his tongue was freed from re- straint. ' Laura, dear Laura!" he said, " can I not believe the promptings of my soul and. the language of your eyes? Yes, you will permit me to call you by your own sweet name and to pour. out the flood of my pent-up affections.   150      The Diamond Cross. How I struggled against a passion that I deemed hopeless! But now I believe I no longer stand upon forbidden ground. Oh, tell me that it is so, and this will be the happiest moment of my life." He struck a chord in unison with his own feelings, but Laura's heart was too full for her tongue to express what she felt. She said not a word, but placed her hand in his and wept tears of joy because the spell was broken that had held their souls in bondage. A sudden burst of light upon the eyes of one blind could hardly create a more strange and delightful sensation than this unexpected hap- piness in her. It was like awaking suddenly into new life -from gloomy and fearful dreams into a bright and joyous world unseen before. "Then, Mr. O'Donnell is not your lover, Laura," con- tinued Mosely. "I discover that in your looks and man- ner. I have been groping in darkness and despair, and now the day breaks brightly over me." '- No," she replied, looking somewhat surprised, " he is only a kind and dear friend-my mentor, a second father. The thought of being a lover never entered either his head or mine." "I had no doubt till this hour, that you were lovers," Mosely added, " and full as my heart was, I could not re- lieve it by declaring my passion while that- impression remained. Knowing the pureness of your character, and superior nature, so far above anything like coquetry or in- consistency, this interview soon revealed to me the mistake I had been long laboring under. When your eyes met mine, I believed I understood their language, and that words were not necessary to express their meaning. Oh! what a joyful' hour is this! Such indeed, as I had not realized before, even in my imagination." ' "I  never had a lover," Laura said. "Since my school days ended, I have been nearly all the time at my quiet home, where I have seen little society, except that of our   , '     Thlze Diamond Cross,      i 5 country neighbors. My chief companion, apart from my own family, was Mr. O'Donnell, who .from my earliest recollection, has been like a father or brother to me. The gentlemen here, with whom we are acquainted, have always exhibited much politeness and'kindness, but none of them, ' so far as I know, ever regarded ime otherwise than a friend. Probably they did not think of me in any other light, though Mr. O'(Donnell humorously remarked sometimes, that he believed he frightened away my admirers." "I have no doubt he did," Mosely replied, " for much as I love you, I resolved over, and over again, to tear my- self away from your presence, under the conviction that you had surrendered your heart to him, and that I only increased my torments by remaining." She smiled at this remark, and then he said in a serious tone, " then you were going to leave to morrow with this impression on your mind, and I was never to know I was beloved, or to see you again. This accidental conversation alone led to an explanation. - Ah, how truly my heart fore- boded what would have happened. As I sat silent a few minutes ago, ao looked at the sun sinking beneath the horizon, Ithought of your departure, and I said to myself, thus will he, the genial light, which for a brief period has shone upon me, and made me happy, pass away from my sight, and perhaps, forever. And when I turned my head and saw the shadows of night gathering in the east, follow- ing. inevitably the declining course of the bright orb, my heart sunk within me, and I reflected that so would my soul become overshaded with gloom, and without even the hope of returning- day. Yes, a long night of darkness began already to settle over me, when your fond words came like the morning's auroral dawn of promise, full of hope and comfort*" "Your language, dear Laura, fills my heart with joy," Mosely said; " all doubts are now dispelled. Yes, I will: \ be the sunlight of your existence ; and you shall be like   15:2      The Diamond Cross. the smiling morn to inspire and bless me in the paths of duty and usefulness, and as the calm evening to give me sweet repose and happiness. I have found the treasure  longed for, and for which I searched in vain till now. You x. are more charming than the most felicitous creations of imagination; and to be loved by you is bliss indeed.- Your image has been indelibly impressed upon my soul from the first day I saw you at Niagara. Neither absence or the efforts of my reason, when I believed you loved another, would erase it. You were present to my mind in my slumbers at night, and the bright vision left me not in the day. I could never break the charm, though I strug- gled against my passion and believed it hopeless. You can comprehend, then, the happiness I feel at this moment. "And, now, tny dear Laura, I would vain remain with you, and I shall leave with great regret. but duty calls me away. My illness has kept me from engagements I ought to have met some time since, though I am thankful for the accident that detained me, since that has been the means of asureing me of your love. Let not your heart be troubled ; we part only for a short time; we shall soon meet again." "Ah, why could I not enjoy this new-born happiness without alloy?" she answered. "But as I am not, your cheering words, " that we shall soon meet again." shall be my solace during the dreary days of your absence, and the remembrance of this joyful hour will comfort me. "We shall soon meet again," shall be the talisman I will wear near my heart while I live In hope of the future." They were unconscious df the flight of time during such sweet intercourse until warned by the darkness that it was necessary to return to the house. *^  Laura conversed little in the family circle during the evening, but there was a thoughtful placid sweetness rest- ing on her countenance which showed the change that had   The Diamond Cross.       x53 come over her. A new life was visible in her expression as she cherished her felicity in silence ; while her manner toward Mosely was unusally affectionate. Mosely was animated, cheerful, and communicative, and his attentions to Laura, which had always been marked by much kindness, now showed a-more tender sentiment. The bearing of the lovers did not escape the keen eyes of Mrs. Sharp, and had the effect of making her more irri- table and caustic than before. Taken in, conneftion with the rebuff her son had met with in his proposal to Laura, and indicating that her matrimonial schemes were frustra- ted, it produced in her a determined spirit of revenge. -She made inuendoes about the family, in the presence of all, that was evidently very painful to Mr. and Mrs. How- ard, and perplexed Laura and Mosely. These referred to the same subjed about which Mosely' had overheard her conversing with her son, though she expressed herself less plainly than at that time. There was the same mean- ing conveyed that she possessed some secret of a startling character relating to the family, and which had special rcference to Laura. Mrs. Sharp's peculiar conduct and language- surprised Laura even, though she did not comprehend in the least what the mysterious allusions meant. She was disposed, to think they were merely the utterance of ill temper, and and had no particular meaning. With Mosely, however, it was different. He had heard Mrs Sharp's conversation with her son in the parlor, which was more explicit, and which Laura knew nothing about. The remarks Mrs. Sharp had just made in the same strain, though rather more ambiguous, fully convinced him they referred to Laura. He was thoughtful and troubled. When he retired to his room'he refleaedeon what had been said, or rather insinuated. "What can this woman mean?' he said to himself. "There can be no mystery or anything wrong conneded   x54       he .Diamond Cross. with this excellent family and my charming Laura. Peo- ple so natural, simple in their habits, well known and universally respected, to have such a secret in their history as her malenevolence implies i, And, Laura, who is as ingenuous as a child and pure as an angel, to be shrouded in mystery' Impossible? Mrs. Shasp's insinuations are the invention of a wicked mind or the ravings of an insane revenge." But whatever was ment or implied. whether there was any fdundation for the inuedoes or not, it was evident that the peace and harmony of that quiet abode was disturbed, for both Mr. and Mrs. Howaid had lost their cheerfulness and looked anxious. In the morning Mosely found an opportunity to con- verse with Mr. Howard, and told him of, his love for Laura. The kind and affectionate old gentleman took his hand and pressed it warmly, and said, "She is worthy of any one's love, Mr. Mosely. No one will attempt to controll her in the choice she may make. What ever she wishes or does will be agreeable to us." He said nothing more on the subject, seemed sad and turned the conversation to another topic. From the regard Mr. and Mrs. Howard had manifested for Mosely during his visit he anticipated a favorable re- ply to his declaration of love for Laura, and was gratified in not being disappointed. as well as at the frank and very kind manner in .which the announcement was received.- But he was a little surprised at the comparative reticence of Mr. Howard, for that gentleman had always been cheer- ful and communicative, particularly when his daughter was the subjet of conversation. The mention of her name never had failed to make him loquacious. He loved to talk of her disposition, habits and good qualities. After some refletion, Mosely attributed this change in Mr. Howard to the thought that might have suddenly entered his mind of being separated from his   hiYe Diamond Cross. daughter. for many fond parents look with regret upon any prospetirve event that may separate them from a beloved child; and he might well have such a feeling, for she was the only child, and the light and joy of his house.- With these impressions, and being assured there was no objedtion to himself personally, Mosely dismissed the mat- ter from his mind, and continued the conversation with Mr. Howard on other subjefts. The last hour or two previous to his departure Mosely spent with Laura alone. It was the first time they met, uninterrupted by the presence} of others, since the, delight- ful denouement of the preceding evening. There was no longer any reserve ; they spolA what the heart prompted. The past, the beginning, and growth of their passion for each other, and the bright futnre they promised themselves, were the themes of conversation. Love's magic wand had transformed them; they seemed to have lost in a manner their individuality and to have become one in thought and in mind. Oh, how blissful the communion of such lovers! In natures so passionate, intellectual and refined the aine I  of love is only found-a love which knows no satiety and is ever fresh as perennial spring. In the love of Mosely and Laura reality was not exceeded by the creations of poetry, and hence their felicity may be imagined. But the hour had come when they were to part for awhile. The month of October had already far advanced, and his engagements in Virginia and Washington called him away. When leaving, Mr. and Mrs. Howard parted with Mosely as if he had been their son. Mrs. Sharp and Mr. Sharp were formal and scarcely polite. Laura walked with him, leaning fondly on his arm, to the carriage. As the parting words were on .his tongue he saw a tear steal down her cheek. It was the silent language of the heart which her lips could not express. That tear was emore precious to -him than diamonds. Deeply moved he said,." This is not   I56       The Diamond Cross. a long farewell, my dear Laura ; we shall soon meet again. I leave my heart with you, my prayers shall be for you, and my thoughts, wherever Iwmay be, will turn continually to you. God bless you, my beloved Laura. Farewell. He, too, felt sad at parting, and, as he passed along, looked lingeringly upojt his soul's treasure and the dear spot where he had found happiness. But he consoled himself with the hope of an early reunion. Laura filled his mind; there was no room for any other object. A sweet reverie stole over him, and he appeared to be only half conscious of his arrival at the village, or of what oc- curred around him. Even the whirl and noise of traveling seemed not inharmonious to his feelings. He felt that he was a purer and better man, at peace with all the world, could forgive his enemies if he had any, and was inspired with ambition to do good and perform a more important part in life. All the better and higher qualities of the- mind were stimulated. In fact, he felt that he had some- thing to live for. Such is the magic and purifying power of deep and true love over a superior nature. And, how bright the future looked with these new and powerful mo- tives that aroused his ambition! He resolved to employ his fine talents to attain honorable distinction among men, and a name that Laura might be proud of. In this frame of mind he reached Virginia. * '    The Diamond Cross.        r57 CHAPTER X V I. anabere, it has bden observed, had been a French politician and a Paris journalist. He was greatly in- terested in whatever political questions affected the United States, his new home and the country oflhis adoption. . He had but crude ideas of the institutions of this republic, and desired to be better informed with regard to them. Impel- led by this desire he had arranged to meet Mosely in Washington for the purpose of studying the frame work and aftion of the government at a very interesting period. This was in the early part of I850, when the compromise measures were before Congress. Agreeable to this arrange- menthhe proceeded to the federal capital and met Mosely there. Mosely fell in with his views and wishes, and expre ed gratification in meeting him at the seat of government. "This is quite a different plate to any other you have seen," he remarked, " and will be, in some respets, more con- genial to your taste. While New York is half European in' population and habits, and not strictly representative of the American people and character, Washington, though much smaller, is a representative city. There are few foreigners here, except the Diplomatic corps ; and the in- habitants, who are from every part of the Union, are well marked with the peculiarities of the different sections and localities." "You have arrived opportunely to gratify your taste for the study of political questions and the system of govern- ment; for Congress is in session and is debating some of the most important measures, for good or evil, that ever agitated the country. As you are an enthasiastic admirer of republican institutions, and, of this great republic parti-   x58       The Diamond Cross. cularly, of which you will become a citizen, it will be well to understand the subject of this debate. The whole frame- work of the constitution and government, and, I may say, of republican institutions, is under discussion. You will see and hear the ablest emen of this country--men who would be in the first rank of statesmen and orators of any coun- try. I invite you, then, to stay a few days, if agreeable ; and it will afford me pleasure to give you all the inforroa- tion and assistance in my power. As you have changed your allegiance, and have entered into new relations of life here, it is important that you should be fortified against the prejudices of your European education, and that you 'should understand thoroughly our political and domestic , institutions." It was one of those calm and delightful evenings in the- early part of summer, before the heat and dust of July and August make Washington so disagreeable, when Mosely and Lanabere first sauntered out together to contemplate the young capital of a new but mighty people. The city was as quiet as a country village ; the crowds of people who usually promenaded the avenue, the main street, early in the evening, had retired to their homes ; the numerous loungers, who generally blocked up the way in front of the hotels, had'withdrawn to the theatre, barrooms, billiard tables, or gambling houses; and the few sluggish omni- buses and hacks that remained on the street seldom broke the silence. As they entered the grounds or gardens that surrounded the Capitol, the moon shed a soft light over and through the thick foliage of the trees, shrubs and plants, that grew there in beautiful variety. The Capitol loomed up in majes- tic grandeur through the slightly hazy atmosphere, which made its proportions appear much larger than they were. Its white walls and marble colums stood out in bold relief above the forest-like mass of dark green, which incline gently upward, as the ground rose toward the hill, on which   The Diamond Cross.       r59 the building stands; while the black heavy dome that crowned the centre, was a prominent obje5t, in striking contrast with the rest of the stru&ure and the scene. The Capitol, in Roman Corinthian style of architecture, was characterized by a simple grandeur, beauty of outline and fine proportions. The jutting portico on the east, and the projecion'on the west, both standing out prominently, formed the figure of a cross, with the north and south ends. This broke the ground line of the mass, while the dome broke the sky -line. In this respedt the building was Roman. -In its columns and other features it was Greek. It has been said that the dome was copied, both in form and size, from the Pantheon at Rome. There were. fewer finer buildings in the world. It remained to be seen how far the extensive and costly wings, and the new dome then projedted would add to its beauty. It was evident] the simple and classic style was to be greatly changed. The wings according to the plan, would have the appearance of great factory-like buildings, placed against rather than attached to the north and south ends. Although the surrounding gardens, or grounds, as they were more generally called, were not extensive enough tao be in keeping with the grand struture, and wanted the ornamental statuary, and monuments which Lanabere had seen at the Tuileries, Champs Elysees and other public places in Paris and elsewhere in Europe, he was forced to admire the scene. At the time these gentlemen were promenading there were few persons in the grounds, ex-' ceel, perhaps, some lovers, who forgot the flying hours as they sat conversing softly under the umbrageous trees. The air was balmy, the heavens serene, the moon above fluked the earth at intervals with dark shadows from the foliage and bright spots, while a soft wind gently waved the tops of the trees in harmony to the whole. It was a time to inspire the imagination and make the mind the reflective; and these gentlemen felt the influence as they f    I00       iz te Diamond Cross. talked of the past and present and speculated on the future. "How enchanting is the scene!" exclaimed Lanabere ,' It reminds one of the poetic creations of Elysium, and that grand building rising up majestically in the moonlight and out of the dense foliage appears like the temple of the Deity." "You are an ambitious people," he continued. "This is seen in many things, but in none more than in your public edifices ; you, who are so economical in your government compared with the expenditures of the governments of the Old World, gratify your ambition at a great cost in this re- sped. You are repeating the history of former nations. As wealth accumulates, as population becomes numerous and condensed, and as power increases, nations lose their primitive simplicity and too often their virtue. They aspire to luxury, greatness and dominion, and the mass of the people lose their first happy state with their liberties. For, as Byron says, There is a moral of all human tales. 'Tis but the same rehearsal of the past ; First Freedom, and then Glory--when that fails, Wealth, Vice, Corruption-Barbarism at last; And History, with all her volumes vast, Hath but one page. "While I love the arts, desire to see them cultivated by all nations and fostered by governments, I do not forget the lessons of history which teach that there is no greater danger to liberty than luxury. Build gorgeous palaces, and lavish wealth on sculpture, painting and other arts, for they educate and refine the mind; but be careful not to become affected with the vices and ambition of the ancient repub- lics when they became rich, luxurious and powerful. Copy the nations of Europe, if you will, in the encouragement of art, but avoid their Irrupting extravagance, thirst for glory and affeted  dilettantism. Preserve your original and   The Diamond Cross.        I6i dignified simplicity of charater and manners, and that will prove the surest guaranty for the perpetuation of your in- stitutions." Few men can talk more eloquently on the purity of governments of virtues of the people than an enthuiastic French republican, and few are less practical in the appli- cation of their theories to the actual condition and wants of sotiety. In the difference between his political dogmas and practice he is like certain Quakers, who declaim solemnly against the vanity of dress, while they rival the most fashionable people in the richness and costliness of their attire. Replying to the above remarks of Lanabere, Mosely said; "I agree with your observations in the main; for r the experience of mankind proves them to be true: but there is nothing absolutely incompatible between the best republicaninstitutions and a high degree of refinement. Nor are the legitimate aspirations for national glory, when stimulated by patriotism, and when the well-being of the people is contemplated, to be deprecated. The glory of conquest by war, and of extending dominion by the force of arms, is very different from that which a country like the United States acquires though conquering the wilderness by industry-making it blossom like a rose-and through developing the( natural resources of a great continent. There is greater danger with us in the more rapid growth of luxury and extravagance than of an elevated taste for art, for we are becoming luxurious before we are refined. There is as much danger in our internal and sedional dissensions as in the ambitious desire for dominion. "There are peculiarities in the origin, development and character of each nation, and it is in comprehending these, and in the wise application of practical measures to varying circumstances that a people may continue great and happy. Much depends on the leading spirits of a country, and on the ability and character of public men.   i62        The Diamond Cross. Those most to be feared in this country, with few excep- tions, are men who make pretensions to great learning, who have studied political science in schools, who are edu- cated in theories merely, and who are regarded by the mass of the citizens as statesmen because they can talk fluently and quote history readily. The true statesmen generally are the plain country gentlemen who make the constitution and the laws and the wants of society their study. While such do not neglect the lights of history, they devote themselves more particularly to existing neces- sities under the established order of things,without reference to what the Greeks or Romans did, or what speculative philosophers say should be done. This country affords many examples of such men, and pre-eminent among them, Washington and Jackson, both statesmen who governed wisely, and who left a lasting impression of their ability. Yet these great men were educated mainly in the school of experience and practical life. "We regard our system of government as unisque, hav- ing none in modern times as there was none in ancient striEtly resembling it. It was framed so as to be adapted to the actual circumstances of our own life, without refer- ence to mere theories or historical analogy. The Old World has made some impression upon our political life, though the vast emigration thence of persons who became citizens here before their minds were divested of the Eu- ropean idea of centralized power, and through the specu- lative dogmas of French and German philosophy. It re- mains to be seen how tar this influence will be felt. Right- ly understood, the government might be extended safely to any number of States and over a very numerous popu- lation. "In studying our institutions, then, you ought to divest your mind of ideas imbibed from Rousseau's Contrat Social and from works of such writers as Prudhon or Louis Blane, which are the text books of French republicans. Study to   The Diamond Cross.      I153 preserve the institutions of your adopted country, which have been produ5tive of so much good, rather than to change or destroy them. "In England the people enjoy liberty, with a just and an impartial administration of the laws ; in the United States we have-liberty and equality; but you French republicans were not content with these, for you inscribed everywhere, fibertg egalite,ftraternit, as the motto of your creed. You endeavored to engraft socialism on the republican institu- tions you inaugurated; and you know how the effort failed. Such efforts must fail, whenever made for the socialist dogma is in conflicA Edith human nature and experience. In Europe you were a revolutionist; here, where we have the best government ever framed by man, be conser- vative."  Mosely and Lanabere conversed in this manner on poli- tical questions, as if driving inspiration from the spot where they walked ; and, indeed, it was a suitable theme of con- versation near the capital of the United States and at such a time. They next visit the White House-the Executive, or Presidential, Mansion; as it is sometimes called-where Lanabere found much to attract his observation and to stimulate reflection. He approached this modest residence of the ruler of a great country, which many residences ofprivate gentlemen in Europe exceed in dimensions and splendor, with sur- prise. He expe&ed to see a building something like the gorgeous palaces of European rulers. The contrast, too, between it and the Capitol appeared strange to him. Mosely explained this seeming incongruity. He said the Capitol represented the, grandeur of the country, while the President's residence was in keeping with the sirhplicity of the institutions of the republic, the equality of the citizens, and with the salary and unostentatious style of living of the President. Any European accustomed to see only the !   pomp of royalty and the grand military entourage of the President of the French republic, while that republic exis- ted, would naturally be surprised to find no such display here. Seeing the White House had the appearance and quiet repose of a respetable country dwelling, surrounded by gardens and shrubbery, without guards or a glittering retinue, Lanabere exclaimed, *' What a government! I see neither soldiers nor police; has not the President a guard for his mansion or to attend his person? What glorious institutions are these that need not the bayonet and hardly the policeman's baton to support them!" "Yes, sir," added Mosely, "they are glorious institutions. I feel proud of my country when I compare it with the countries of the old world, where I saw the grim visages of soldiers everywhere; where governments rest upon the points of bayonets, and where the will of one man, or ofthd few, is the law for all." "But let us visit the President," continued Mosely , "I have the honor to be acquainted with him and his family. It is not too late to call, and it will give me pleasure to in- troduce you. There will be no more ceremony observed f  than .in visiting any other family. Of course, evening visits are made only by those who are very well acquainted with the President or his family, and by friends who may accompany them. The President will be pleased to see you if not engaged in his official duties. He, sometimes devotes the evenings as well as the days to public affairs and sometimes he uses his library or office for social con- versation in the evening. He likes to converse of planta- tions and of plantation life, and as you have become a planter in Louisiana, to which State he belongs and where he owns a plantation, he may take greater pleasure in con- versing with you. He is a plain, frank, and kind-hearted man. He is a soldier, too, and a brave one. It was the abiliity and bravery he displayed in the late war with Mexico that elevated General Taylor to the Presidency."   A servant in plain clothes, who seemed to know Mosely very well, as he addressed him somewhat in the manner of a familiar acquaintance, took their cards in, and returned with rhe usual hospitable message to " walk in." The President, Major Bliss, his son-in law, three ladies of the family, and two visitors only, were in the parlor. This room was just such a comfortable, moderate sized one as might be found in any rich gentleman's house, and had not much embellishment or show of luxury. There was nothing remarkable in it except a fine, full length portrait in oil painting of Washington hanging on the wall, and a very handsome piano-forte, which had been presented by a celebrated manufacturer as a masterpiece of workman- ship. Otherwise it was furnished- and ornamented in a simple manner, but with taste. The President rose as the two gentlemen entered, and greeted Mosely with a cordial shake of the' hand, and also Lanabere when presented, in the same friendly manner. Then he introduced them to the family and the two visitors who were present. General Taylor, at this time, looked to be upwards of sixty years of age. He was a short, thick-set man, with stiff steel-grey hair and bushy eyebrows. ; There were no marks of superior intellec, or prominent features of char- acer, in his face or bearing. His eyes expressed benig- nity, and his mouth some firmness. In general -appear- ance he was more like a plain planter than a high public functionary. The characteristic traits ot a public man are soon ap- preciated by the people, and such traits are generally ex- pressed in a felicitous manner, by a few words or by nick- names. General Taylor was called "Old Rough and Ready," and was spoken of as "Honest old Zack." This concise and striking, but rather uncouth, manner of delineating character is strongly American; and these cognomens sketched the old chief admirably. "I took an early opportunity to request the honor of   x66       Tr7e Diamond '^Cross. introducing Mr. Lanabere to you, Mr. President," said Mosely, " because he is a stranger; and can stay but a few days in Washington, and because he has become a planter and resident of your own State." "You are a fortunate man," observed the President, ad- dressing Lanabere. "The life of a planter is a happy one. I look forward to the day when I can have pleasure to be relieved of the cares of public life and return to my quiet plantation home; and I wish it would be to-morrow." His looks confirmed the sincerity of these words. No one occupying his high position had ever been harassed more, or suffered as much, from the troubles and weighty responsibility of office. He had never been a politician, and this was his first experience in public life apart from his profession as a military man. He had put out to sea in troubled waters, when it required a more experienced and tougher helmsman. His health was already sinking under the weight he had to bear. It was apparent that he was conscious of this, and hence the heartfelt earnestness with which he expressed a desire for the repose of quiet life. He spoke little of politics during the conversation,. and confined himself chiefly to making remarks on planting and the planting interest of the South, and to asking ques- tions about Europe. He was proud of his military achieve- ments, and when these were adverted to by way of compli- ment he seemed highly gratified. After a visit of half an -hour the two gentlexmen took leave,.with cordial expressions of good will from the kind old President.  As they returned to their hotel Lanabere was desirous of knowing the nature of the President's duties and the re- sponsibilities of his office. Mosely explained. He said, " the duties 6f the President are chiefly ad- ministrative, though they are legislative also to the extent of the veto power over acts of Congress. They are in no sense judicial, notwithstanding he has the appointment of   The Diamond Cross.          67 the judges, by and with the consent of the Senate; lor there is no appeal to him, the Sup reme ourt being t highest tribunal and last c ourt of resort O diffgov ernment, which is modelled after the British in many resperts d iffers from that in this particular matter, there being under that a final appeal to the monarch in privy council. Nor can the President remove the supreme judges, as they are ap- pointed for life. He has no  constitutional pow er, te- fore, above the judiciary, nor has he any infuence over i-, exept tha t whichbove the mighthave incidentally through his appointees. In matters of legislation he can veto acts o Congress, or hich oimounts to the same thing, he can de- dine to sign them within the period prescribed by the " onstitution, and thus they fail to become laws ; but Con- gress can pass them over the veto by a two -thirs vote . This is a great power, especially when political parties are Thiso nearly balanced in Congress that it is difficu t to get a so nearly balanced in Co    t  ^equently exer- two-thirds vote; and this power is not nfreently exer- two-t. 'hi   t then, to carefully examine all a s cised. ItHe does h s notdu  send to the Legislature passed. He does    - -ou  se vt h French goyern- projets or laws, as was the cse with the French goyern- ment, and as is the practice ith some oth er European governments : but it is his duty to recommend genera terns, by message, such measures as he thinks are need- ful. He cannot prorogue or dissolve Congress, but  may convene that body in special session whenever he consid     public ser vice requires him to dutieo so.  are His administrative or executive powers and duties are extensive. He appoints to all offices under  the federal government, except those immediately conneed with Congress, and only in the higher grades is the confirmation ofthe Senate ress qured He is commander-in-chief of the army and navy, controls these forces, and removes officers at his pleasure. Although he has a Cabinet or ministry, it at his pleno constinal power beyond that delegated to it by himself or which is derived from him. The members of this himel orwihi     e   Cabinet, or Secretaries, as they are called, are, in fa%, nothing more than the chief clerks or the heads of depart-. ments whenever he chooses to exercise his power. The people are so consiious of this that they hold the President, and not his Secretaries, responsible for the adts of the gov- ernment. Nor is there any theory of constitutional minis- try representing the popular will through a majority in the legislature; as in England. The President is as absolute in this respeCt as the autocrat of Russia, and his Cabinet is fiequently c ompose d of those whose party is in a minority in Congress.' "Few monarchs have more real power than the Presid- ent of the United States. The short term of office-- four years-does as much as the checks and balances of the constitution, or the popular voice in restraining an undue exercise of power. He has a regard for public opinion, because he holds his office but a short time; and the peo- ple pay respet to the office in the person of the President, though they may disapprove of his adts or policy, knowing that his term must soon expire. Hence, there has been no necessity of a guard to his person or residence, and no military display at the seat of government. "It has been said that the head that wears a crown is uneasy, and the President of this republic-fully realizes that fact, for he has to pay the same penalty as his brother rulers for the honor of governing. While he may be under no apprehension of personal danger, or troubled about per- petuating a dynasty, his labors are so great, and responsi- bility so weighty, that he is sinking underthem. To a less conscientious man, and to an experienced politician, the burden might be lighter.- Myriads of office-seekers and office-holders besiege his residence, beset his path, and harass him continually. He  was elev ted to his position by this multitude of partisan politicians, who worked like beavers under the expeCtation, and often with the promise, of reward. How, then, could he refuse to see them andhear    their pleadings? Thirty or forty thousand office-holders to turn out and their offices to distribute among hundreds of thousands hungry expectants is a herculean labor. Should the President venture to ignore or corrupt, but now recognized doctrine of all parties, that ' to the viCtors belong the spoils' a thousand newspapers would assil him, like a pack of hounds after their prey. Such a storm would be ra'ie tnhat no ordinary man could stand under it. In the purer days of the republic, when the population was much less, this evil was not known, or known to a limited extent only; but it has acquired such magnitude in these times as to become almost dangerous." Lanabere was deeply interested in what he had seen and heard. A new and extensive field was opened for his contemplation. "What a great country," he exclaimed, in a meditative mood. "I had long admired without un- derstanding it so well, but you have thrown a flood of light, in the course of a few hours, over its institutions and people. I am glad that my good fortune has brought me here to be one of its citizens. I used to speak with patri- otic affection of my native land as La bele France, and I shall speak with pride of my adopted country as The grand America. With so much power and grandeur in the nation there is great simplicity of forms in the government and in your public life. The United States is regarded with jealous eyes by the monarchists of Europe, who delight to speak of your government as an experiment, though it has existed three-quarters of a century. Your gigantic power, marvelous growth and wonderful resources are the envy, if not the fear, of princes. The citizens of this republic hardly know or feel they are governed, so free are they, and so light are their burdens; while in the Old World we see and feel the hand of government everywhere, and at all times. In my admiration of your government I say, with my heart, in the words on your own 'national arms, esto fera elua,; and I see no reason why the republic    should not stand forever. An intelligent people as you Americans are would hardly throw away the great blessings you enjoy. As to the evils of office hunting and political demagogism of which you spoke; 'these, I suppose, will find a remedy, should they become dangerous, in the com- mon sense and patriotism of such a practical and an en- lightened people." ,"   27e Diamond Cross.      . I71 CHAP-TER X V'II L Mosely was engaged in important political matters during the long session of Congress in I850, and, although he corresponded with Laura regularly, he saw little of her in that period. But interesting as his labors were, his mind was not absorbed by them, for she occupied a large share, or the largest share, of his thoughts. Laura Howard had become the polar star of his existence, and to her his mind turned continually. Indeed, the elevated sentiment of patriotism by which he was influenced, and the pleasure he experienced in taking a prominent part in great affairs, seemed to have been stimulated in part by his love for her. His ambition and thbe latent noble quali- ties of his nature were aroused to greater ation by this tender passion. Would not his success afford her pleasure? Would not the reputation he might acquire gratify her? Were not his present labors so many steps in that career of ambition and honor in which she would share and of which she would be proud? Such were his cogitations as he journeyed along, and which inspired him in his work. The letters he received from Laura from time to time were all that he could desire; they spoke the devotion of a pure and fond heart, showing she had given her affec- tions to him unreservedly, without an after thought and with no apprehension of aught occurring in the future to disturb her happiness. She dwelt upon the delightful days they had passed together and the joy she anticipated in the future. She told him how fondly she cherished the memory of the hour when he declared his love, and that she often went to the dear spot-the bower-to live over again in remembrance that happy time. t   How sweet were these loving words to Mosely! He read them over and over again to find new joys as eagerly as the panting deer seeks the gushing stream. He felt that his happiness was secure. and that he approached the realization of all his desires, that which he had long dreamed of as the acme of earthly felicity. He poured out his soul to her in responsive tenderness and bright visions of hope. He had found in reality the idea of his imagination in the beauty and excellence of Laura. All the charms of female loveliness which he had beheld be- fore were, in his mind, but comparative; she was peerless, and filled the measure of his longing heartf  In one of her letters she informed him that Mr. O'Don- nell had returned to her home, that he had been to Louisi- ana, and was about to go to New York, and thence to Eu- rope. She said she had informed Mr. O'Donnell of what had occured since his departure, and of the love Mosely and she had for each other. She expressed surprise at his continued mysterious conduct, which was so unlike what it was before Mosely visited her. She was both dis- appointed and grieved when, instead of congratulating her on her happiness, he was taciturn, depressed, and caution- ed her against indulging the love with which she was in- spired at that time. He spoke to her with his accustomed kindness, but impressively, and more like a guardian than ever before.  He gave no reasons for the advice he offered, and only remarked that time would develop his motives, and she would then thank him for the warning given. It was painful, he said, to conceal his reasons from her; but it must be so for the present, and she must have confi- dence in his affection and judgment. At the same time he spoke of Mosley in flattering terms, and confessed that he entertained great esteem for him. Her surprise and perplexity were increased, too. by observing one day some- thi ng peculiar in the manner of her friend and parents when they were in deep conversation with each other. She en-   2 he Diamond Cross.      T 73 tered the parlor at the time of this conversation rather sud- denly and unexpectedly, when, all at once, they became silent, as if they had been conversing on a sub; et they wished to conceal from her. She could not avoid perceiv- ing this, for she had ever been the welcome listener to'all conversations, and could not conceive of any secret or mys- tery between her own dear parents and friend that she might not know, for they had always treated her with the utmost confidence and freedom. This circumstance alone might not have attrated her attention, perhaps, had not the mysterious manner and late absence of Mr. O'Donnell, the strange condu5t and words of her visiting relations, Mrs. and Mr. Sharp, and the depressed spirits of her mother and father occasionally, contribute to awaken sus- picion that there was some mystery behind all that. "When the past has been so happy and the future is so bright, when it should be all sunshine around me," she said to Mosely in her letter, " what mean these incompre- hensible shadows that cross my path? The dark words of my aunt, the mysterious bearing of Mr. O'Donnell who was always frank and communicative, and the secret con- versations of my parents, whence do they arise? What do they portend? The sun of my happiness is momentarily obscured by these clouds that are chasing along and en- veloping me in their shadows. I was sporting joyously in its beams, like the fabled faries, when some invisible spirit appeared to envy my felicity, came and spread his wings over me. Oh, why should mystery lurk around my home, where all had been confidence, simplicity and love?" lMosely was not less perplexed than Laura at these oc- currences, and was convinced there was some entangled web of history at the bottom. But he wrote soothingly and hopefully to her, because he saw her mind was dis- quieted, assuring her above all nothing could weaken the tie that bound theit hearts, or separate them long from each other. He was most surprised and annoyed, how-   ^q/* /^C? zaL;monzaa Gross. ever, at Mr. O'Donnell's advice to Laura not to indulge her love for him, and was disposed to be indignant, till he remembered the long and intimate friendship that existed between her and that gentleman. At times the thought arose in his mind that Mr. O Donnell, after all. might have a latent but conceited passion for her, and that this was the cause of his strange conduct, though it gave him no uneasiness, he having the greatest confidence in her love to himself. He hoped Mr. O'Donnell would explain the matter, or give him some clue to the motive for giving such advice, when they should meet. He had reason to expect some explanation, too; because Mr. O'Donnell had been more confidential with him than with the family about his mysterious movements, and because that gentle- man had expressed a wish to meet him in New York be- fore sailing for Europe. A few days after Mbsely received the letter of Laura re- ferred to he was in New York, and there met Mr.- O'Don- nell in compliance with that gentlemen's request. Their meeting was as friendly as their parting had been at Mr. Howards  house, the latter especially appearing much gratified. In the conversation that ensued Mr. O'Donnell remark- ed, "I heard of your misfortune in the hunt-if misfortune it may be called when it led to such delightful consequen- ces-and am glad to see you quite restored. You per- ceive, sir, I aln informed of what occurred, but you must not object to that; for I have been th( oldest and dearest friend of Laura, and stood next to her parents. You have won the heart of the most charming and the noblest girl I ever knew, the flower of our country. If you will permit me to speak frankly, as to a friend, I will confess that I heard with regret of your love for each other. Not that I think you unworthy of her love ; on the contrary, I esteem you highly, and know no one I would prefer to be in your place ;  but there are certain circumstances, which neithlcr   The Diamand Cross.        T 75 you nor she must know at present, that when developed, if they ever should be, might cast such an influence over one or both as to disturb -your welfare. Laura and you have my heart-felt wish for your happiness, and shall have my efforts to make you happy. If I suceeed in the mat- ter I have undertaken you will know and appreciate my motives for making these remarks, and for concealing the rest ; if I failt, it will be better, perhaps, that my secret re- ,main and die with me. For this reason alone I would have preferred that she should have formed no attachments or engagement till the affairs I allude to are cleared up. If this gratuitous manner of expressing myself should appear like assuming a privelege or an authority that friendship for her could hardly justify, you must remember that our friendship is not of an ordinary character, and that she has always regarded me as a second father. Besides, I am personally interested, though I may not tell you how,. in these concealed matters which have reference to her. Pardon me for not being more explicit just now. I hope the time will soon come when I can have the pleasure of giving you a full explanation." "These mysterious intimations, taken in couneftion with what I heard and saw just before I left Mr. Howard's residence, surprise me very much," Mosely replied ; " and they have produced a painful impression. I regret you feel under the necessity of withholding that which so deep- ly interests me. Still, I will not press you to explain, though I might justly do so, being personally concerned and feeling deeply interested in whatever affects the happi- ness of Laura, because I recognize you as her most inti- mate and life-long friend, and as aAing from the best mo- tives for her welfare. Unpleasant as the suspense may be I must leave any further revelations than you are dis- posed to make to time, your friendship and your honor. Be assured of this, however- that I am perfeftly satisfied there is nothing to be revealed that can lessen my devo-   tion to her. She is as pure as an angel ; she is a stranger to the influences, excitements, and chequered scenes and events of the busy world, and her rural home has been the abode of virtue and peace since her childhood. What mystery, then, in the name of Heaven, can surround or be connected with her?" "You were polite enough to say just now you would not press that question upon me," added MrO'Donnell, " and, therefore, you will not expect an answer till I feel at liberty to give one. I may observe, however, that what you said- with regard to Laura is perfectly true. She is all you be. lieve her to be. You cannot form too exalted an opinion of her."                         ! "But let us waive this subject at present, and let me re- peat the request I made on a former occasion, that our conversation should remain a secret ; for to speak of them might excite in Laura unnecessary anxiety. -I hope the time may be near when I shall be able to unravel the thread of a history that concerns all of us." "And now, Mr. Mosely, permit me to inquire about Mr Lanabere. Is he in New York? And have you seen him sirce you arrived? I suppose you are on social terms with him still, if not as friendly as formerly?" "I believe he is in the city," replied Mosely, " though I have not seen him since I came here." "I  wish to become acquainted with him," said -Mr O'Donnell, " and shall esteem it a favor if you will introduce me. Indeed, I desire to see him before I go to Europe, and I shall sail in the course of a few days, you would gratify me by taking the earliest opportunity to give the in- troduction." "Certainly," rejoined Mosely, " it will afford me pleasure, and whenever you may find it convenient, after to-morrow, I  will accompany you to his residence. I must call upon him first, for I have not yet paid him and his wife a visit since their marriage."    2"he Diamond Cross.     177 7 Although Mr. O'Donnell did not intimate for what pur- pose he desired to see Lanabere, Mosely was persuaded in his own mind that it had, some reference to or was connect- ed with that gentleman's strange movements. But as he had concluded not to inquire any further about these, he trusted to time and Mr. O'Donnell's promise for a future explanation. Mosely took an early opportunity, agreeable to his pro- mise, to introduce Mr. O'Donnell to Lanabere. The con- versation that took place at this introduction, or, rather, the.- questions Mr. O'Donnell asked Lanabere, confirmed the impressions previously made on Mosley's mind, that there was some connection between the former's mysterious movements and the Bouverie estate. Mosely saw that Mr- O'Donnell had another motive in asking for an introduc- tion than that of courtesy or curiosity. His direct ques- tions, indeed, about Mr. Bouverie and his early history, about the estate, and about the Lanabere family, almost exceeded the bounds of striCt politeness. Lanabere did not appear to notice or to feel any objeCtion, to the exam- ination he was put through, thinking, probably, as he had been questioned so Buch before concerning his good for- tune, that the romantic features of its history naturally ex- cited curiosity, and that inquisitiveness was a trait of Ame- rican charadter. Although Mosely was convinced there was a connection between Mr. O'Donnell's movements and the late Mr. Bouverie's affairs he could form no idea of the nature of it. He would not have felt concerned about this, and might not have given it a second thought, had not Laura appear- ed to be involved in some way in the mystery. Still neither he nor she was permitted to know what was the connection. Mr. O'Donnell had sealed up the secret for the time, and he had to wait that gentleman's pleasure for a revelation. Neither fdosely nor Mr. O'Donnell adverted to the sub- 8     I78       The Diamond Cross. jeft again in their conversations with each other; after their first interview at the Astor House. Nor did they meet but once after the former had introduced the latter to Lana- bere. Indeed, Mr. O'Donnell sailed for Europe a few days after. Mosely learned, however, that Mr. O'Donnell had an interview with Lanabere subsequently to the one at which he was present, when it appeared that Mr. O'Donnell was more pointed in his questions than previously relative to Lanabere's family and the Bouverie estate; so much so, in truth, as to excite the surprise of Lanabere. In speaking of this to Moselt, Lanabere remarked, "You Americans are a peculiar people. Every one seems to take the deepest interest in my affairs. To use a com- mon expression, I have been pumped dry by questions. Scarcely a day passes that I have not to go over the same ground to some new acquaintance; and the offers of ad- vice and services I receive are quite numerous. This ex- cessive sociability, if I may call it so, is not confined to any class, but pervades all society. Even your friend, Mr. O'Donnell, who is one of the most refined gentlemen I have met, was particularly inquisitive about my family and my late uncle. He asked me where Mr. Bouverie was born, what conneftion, if any, this name had with the Mercier family, and other such questions; concluding with a request that I would write an introduction for him to my relations in France, as he was going to Europe. I do not complain of this, for I perceive it is the habit of your country, and as to Mr. O'Donnell, he was very polite and apologetic. Nor did I hesitate a moment to give such a gentleman, who is your friend, the introduction he asked. I merely mention this circumstance to learn if you know whether he had any special object in view or not; for on thinking the matter over afterwards I imagined his ques- tions were not prompted by mere idle curiosity. Then I   17te Diamond Cross.      I79 am informed in a letter from my superintendent that he had been to the plantation, and had questioned Mrs. and Miss Templeton about Mr. Bouverie, and particularly about the portraithich I mentioned to you in my letters. All this seems s range to me, especially as he did not allude to his visit to the plantation when in conversation with me."  "I can not conceive what his object could be," replied Mosely; "Mr. O'Donnell is a wellbred gentleman, and not disposed in the least to pry into other people's business or to be intrusive. There are few men as punctilious in observing the manners that belong to a gentleman ; indeed, they are natural to him. I knew hehad been to Louisiana, but was not aware of the business that took him there, or of his presence on your plantation. It is possible he might have been visiting friends in the neighborhood, and merely stopped there in the course of his rides, or, having heard of the singular manner in which you became possessed of the estate, his curiosity might have been somewhat excited. Whatever may have influenced him in this seeming inqusitiveness, I am sure he had no improper motive and has done nothing unbecoming a gen- tleman. He does not belong to the class of meddlesome, restless and speculating persons you have referred to ; he is altogether of another stamp. If he had any particular object in asking those questions, and in remaining silent as to visiting your estate, which, I confess, seems singular, he will probably explain it to you in due time." "Well, my friend," said Lanabere, in a quiet, refleAive mood, "this country and the habits of the people are strange to me. I hope to understand them-by and by." ' , ar   CHAPTER XVIII. Mosely and Laura made arrangements to be near each other during the winter season ; and a few days previous to the Christmas holidays he received a letter from her informing him of her arrival at the residence of Mrs. Bright, in Baltimore. He read this letter with joy. Each fond word came like dew upon a thirsty plant, giving new life to his love and hope. Some time had passed since he saw her, and though he had been much occupied with important matters, time had pressed heavily upon him and their separation seemed to have been a very long one. True, her letters came regularly during this period to cheer him, like the melody of soft music from a distance, but nothing could satisfy him short of that reunion which a few hours was to bring. He was in Washington when he learned of her arrival at Baltimore, and he left immediately to see her. Mrs Bright resided in that part of the city on the border where lately so many handsome   residences had been built, and which had become the fashionable quarter. Laura was expect- ing him at the time he arrived, and the sound of the door bell made her heart flutter with delight. She heard his  well known voice as he entered the house, and hurried to meet him. "Dear Laura," he said, as he fondly embraced her, "this is happiness, indeed! The long months that have passed since I saw you appeared to be years. Your letters and the hope of meeting you were all that made the slug- gish time endurable. Then pausing a moment, and gaz- ing at her tenderly, he added, " And how charming you look, my love; yet a  little pensive, I think. Your eyes   give me welcome, but there appears mingled with that ex- pression unusual thoughtfulness. I hope all is well with you and at your home." "Yes, well," she replied, " and I am very happy at this moment, because you are with me again." Then looking up at him affectionately, while her hand rested on his shoulder, she continued, "How could it be otherwise? You are the light of my life, and how could I have any other feeling than that of happiness on this occasion? Each successive day that rolled by since we parted, bring- ing me nearer to you again, made my heart lighter ; and now 1 feel my happiness renewed." Mrs. Bright entered the parlor just then, smiling, and extending her hand to Mosely to welcome him to her house, remarked, pleasantly, "I ought not to disturb you at this moment, perhaps, but I could not know that my much esteemed friend was here without seeing him and as- suring him of the pleasure his visit affords. I see, sir," she continued, "you have not negledted to improve the in- troduction I gave to my charming friend Laura, but have, with your natural good taste, cultivated her acquaintance to a happy result. I was not conscious at the time that I should be the instrument of promoting so far the happi- ness of my two friends. I am highly gratified at the re- sult, and congratulate you both." "I am greatly indebted to you, Mrs. Bright," responded Mosely; " indeed, you have secured a life-long lease upon my gratitude. You are always doing something gracious, but ihis was the crowning act of kindness you ever con- ferred on me. I never felt that I wanted a friend more than when I called upon you for the introduction, and I found you to be the one. You see how much I appre- ciated your kind act." When the lovers were left alone, Mosely said, "Now, my dear Laura, let me ask how you have passed the time since we parted for you know I feel-deeply interested in , s    *        '     .  .   r8 2       The Diamond Cross. / all that concerns you. Let me know about your cherished home, and your dear mother and father. You did not mention Mrs. Sharp and her son in your letters; did they remain with you long?" A cloud passed over her bright face as he asked this question, which he quickly perceived. She saw he looked inquiringly, and answered in the confiding ingenuousness of her nature. My home, my once happy home, where I had never known a sorrow, has been invaded by a mysterious spirit of doubt and gloom, Alas! I have realized the truth at last, which religion and philosophy concur in teaching, that there is no continual unalloyed happiness on earth. At the time the sun of my joy was in the meridian-when I learned that you loved me-several circumstances occurred to obscure its brightness. The sorrow I felt at your depar- ture was relieved by the consciousness of your love, and by the hope of seeing you soon again, but the condu& of my aunt aid cousin, their repeated insinuations of some mys- tery connected with our family, and the change this evi- dently produced in my mother and father, together with the strange proceedings of my friend, Mr. O'Donnell, grieved and bewildered me. Were it not that I am near you and beloved my you I should be very sad. Then Mrs. and Mr. Sharp are coming to Baltimore this winter, when, judging from their past adts and from what they have said, I fear they are determined to renew their efforts to constrain me to marry. Unavailing as this would be- for I love you only, and could have no affection for Mr. Sharp-they may give me trouble. My aunt is very3 deter- mined. She intimated in her anger one day that she would compel me to yield or make me miserable, saying she pos- sessed some fearful secret concerning the family, which she held suspended over us. God knows what she meant; I have not the remotest idea. Still these vague innuendoes distress me greatly at times."   The Diamond Cross.        183 Mosely was not surprised at this disclosure of the design of M rs. Sharp and her son with regard to Laura; for he had perceived. their purpose while at the house of Mr. Howard, but he was astonishecd at their persistent and malignant insinuations of a painfmystery hanging over the family. "Let not your heart be troubled, my dear Laura, he said; 3 for these people can not know anything to harm you. Their malevolent hints are the inventions, probably, of artifice, or spring from disappointment. Your pure and oble sharatter and the mora excellence of your parents are far beyond the reach of slnder. orwillyour friends permit you to be persecuted. It grieves me to know there is anything to trouble your mind, but that can only draw me nearer to you, and raise the shield of my love over you. Nothing could weaken or lessen my devotion, and any cir- cumstance that may give youpain only strengthens it. Be calm, therefore and do not let this matter dwell on your mind."   "But," said Laura, " my dear mother and fater are not as they used to be before my aunt's visit. They are not less tender to me, and if possible, more indulgent; yet I have seen their natural cheerfulness give way of late to fits of seriousthoughtfulness and sadness. And M r. O'Donnell, though kind as ever, is much changed; he has no longer that uniform frankness and unreserved manner with me he had He is silent and mysterious. He even expressed regret to hear we were lovers; while at the same time he declared his admiration for your character and his friendship for you. I was more hurt and per- plexed at this as he declined to give me his reasons, sim- ply saying the time would come when I hould understand and appreciate them. I feel as though some complicated web of fate were around me which I cannot unravel The apprehension of future illsometimes broods over my mind fearfully depressing my spirits.   184       The Diamond Cross. "All this is very strange, I confess," responded Mosely, "and is calculated to distress you. I observed while I was at your home that the visit of Mrs. Sharp and her son had given you trouble; and, sympathizing with you, I left with much regret. Now we are near each other again. I shall share your anxieties, and hope I nmay be able to allay your apprehensions. Time will reveal the cause of these apparently strange circumstances. In the meantime con-8 sider how impossible it is that there should be anything relating to your family-to you, whose history and manner of life are so simple-who are so well known and univer- sally respected--of a nature to give serious trouble. And remember my dear Laura, that whatever betide, you will remain the idol of my soul, and I shall be your refuge." By such words he calmed her mind, and she was happed But after leaving her, as he was going to the hotel, his thoughts dwelt on what he had beard. The remarks of Mrs. Sharp, which he had overheard while at Mr. How- ard's residence, the conduct of that person and her son, and his conversation with Mr. O'Donnell, came fresh to his mind. He could no longer doubt as to there being some secret connected with the Howard family. What sur- prised him greatly about this entangled enigma was that the part Mr. O'Donnell was performing in it appeared not to be understood by the other actors, or by those who seemed to be interested parties. That gentleman's travels from place toplace recently, his journeys to Louisiana and Europe, and his language and general bearing, all seemed to have reference to the same Subject, but in what manner Mosely could not conjecture. One thing, however, he did know, and that was that nothing could lessen his love for Laura or change his purpose to marry her. He resolved that when he could call her his wife, and Mr. O'Donnell should return, he would make an effort to clear up the mystery in which she appeared involved and which now troubled her. One day, while in conversation with Laura about herself   Thte Diamtond Cross.      8 and the occurrence referred to, Mosely asked her if she remembered having lived at any other place than her mountain home. She said she had no recollection of having lived elsewhere, though she had learned recently that her parents formerly resided in Baltimore county, near the city, and removed to the farm they then owned when she was an infant. She remarked, too, that many of their relations dwelt in and around Baltimore, that a few only had ever visited them, and that there was not much com- nunication or intimacy existing between her parents and them. Adding that she understood Mrs. and Mr. Sharp were coming to spend the winter with some of these rela- tions. At this point they ceased to converse on these matters, as if each desired that their present happiness should not be disturbed by dwelling upon them, tacitly deferring any further remarks till events might force a consideration of As thedppy hours few over Mosely and Laura during this period everything seemed to minister to their love. The Christmas holidays, a joyous time to all, were doubly so to them. Mrs. Bright, who regarded Laura as a sister and Mosely as a dear friend, was delighted to see them so happy, and contributed in every way to their enjoy- ment. Laura regained the natural buoyancy of her spirits; and she adorned every subject of conversation with freshness, piquancy and grace. Her friends were charmed. The clear and nice perception of her mind quickly tested the quality of every object or subject that came before her, and her exquisite taste turned everything that it touched into gold. Although she was as ingenuous as a child her strokes of delicate humor and vivacity at times made her exceedingly interesting. Mrs. Bright had spoken to Laura of going to Washing- ton after the holidays; and Laura anticipated the proposed ton after the*ho   visit with pleasure, because Mosely would be there, and because she had heard much and seen little of that place in the gay season. What they experted to see and enjoy there, and the chararter of society,- were the topics of con- versation sometimes, and on one of these occasions Laura remarked:-- , "I believe, Charles, you said Mr. Lanabere, would be in Washington this winter. Having heard you speak of him and of the incidents of his someu-hat romantic history, my curiosity has been stimulated, and I desire to see him.. I suppose you and he are friendly still, though I under- stood he had given you offence in some way. You have a generous and forgiving disposition and a charitable consid- eration for the weakness of others." "I know not, dear Laura, Mosely replied, " if I deserve your commendation for so much Christian virtue. I con- tinue to be acquainred with Mr. Lanabere notwithstanding some coolness and differences of opinion. Understanding the nature of his European education and strength of his prejudices, and being aware that he has many good quali- ties,'I can make allowance for his errors. I understand by a letter I received to-day that he arrived at Washington yesterday.  You will have an opportunity, therefore, of seeing'him if you desire it when you go to the capital." "Mr. Lanabere appears to be of an. ardent, impulsive nature, and easily influenced by varying circumstances, rejoined Laura. "Such a person we can forgive if we may not trust him, as his faults spring from strong impulse and not from premeditation. He  is not singular in tis weakness, I believe, and it appears to be a weakness espe cially in persons who possess genius or talent. I have found in the course of my reading that those called brilli- ant men are generally more erratic than others.  And although Mr. Lanabere may not be classed with the stars of first magnitude, he seems to have some talent and something in his nature in common with men of genius." *    .                 I    Mosely smiled at these remarks and said, in a vein of pleasantry, "You are in a philosophic mood this evening, Laura, and disposed to be critical. Your observations on the peculiarities of a certain class of individuals are correct, and your sight sketch of Mr. Lanabere is true to life." "When I spoke of men being controlled or carried away by their impulses I did not include you, Charles," she con- tinued, in the same pleasant strain, " for I remember how successfully you were able to control or reason down yours. Had it not been for the accident which detained you at my home I might never have known you loved me, so well dis you subdue or conceal your feelings ; and even then this knowledge came only tardily at the last hour, and just as )ou wew leaving." "Yes, my dear Laura," Mosely said, "I did resist my passion a long time as well as I could, but ineffeEtually. You know I did so only because I thought it hopeless. It was like some mountain torrent, pent up, and swelling daily, till it burst through all obstructions and gave free- dom to the flood of my feelings. Ah, what a relief was that! And now the current of my life runs smoothly and happily as I am borne along to the ocean of bliss that lies before me." "But," answered Laura, "you gave me too much credit for penetration or knowledge of character in your remarks just now. I have"-had little experience in the world, and may easily be deceived. The opinion I expressed about Mr. Lanabere I formed from your conversations. My views of the peculiarities of men of genius or talent I derived from reading." "Still you have that fine taste which quickly perceives traits of character in the actions of people, and which de- tects the fitness or incongruity of things, and that is what I referred to," responded Mosely. This quality of the mind, which cannot be expressee by the wprds penetration or sagacity, belongs more to women than to men. particu. \   larly to those who are refined. It is a mirror, in which every passing object is-instantly and faithfully represented. And in you, dear Laura, it is most highly polished, and re- flects the truest impressions. How much and frequently I have enjoyed listening to you'as one charming and strik- ing picture after another has been brought befo re my view. The first words I heard you utter at Niagara sank deep ihto my heart; they were the echoing voice of nature it- self; and, I said, here is a true child of nature, one whose soul is untainted by the world or crpmped by artifiicial education. And in our conversation, while I was an in- valid, as well as during our walks, when I was convales- cent, how vividly you brought to my mind the beauties of surrounding objects and how strikingly you depicted events. It has been said that a thing of beauty is a joy forever, and these beautiful impressions made by you re-  main engraved on my soul, springing up into life and pro- ducing pleasure continually." "Your kind words are very gratifying to me," added Laura; " for whatever may be my endowments, or how- ever much I may fall short of your exalted opinion, it is enough to learn that you are so well pleased with sach qualities as kind nature has given me." It may be said truly that "the gol den hours on angels' wings " flew over Mosely and Laura during his stay at BaltimOre, The Christmas holidays passed so happily that 'tiey were hardly concious of the flight of time. Mosely wenbathere specially to visit Laura and to be with her as m uch as possible at that joyous season of the year, and all his attention was devoted to her. Every succeed- ing day they felt more and more the necessity of each others society. Persons with natures less kindred or less loving might have become somewhat weary, but there was no satiety in them their affections and desires were ever fresh. Nothing troubled them but the thought that they could not remain longer together, and that their separation, yl^^^   though only for a short period, was necessary. Although Laura expecred to join Mosely in Washing- ton soon, according to the arrangements they and Mrs. Bright had made, and would not be far from him in the meantime, she was distressed at the thought of parting, as if she felt his presence were necessary to avert some im- pending calamity. The tendrills of her heart entwined around him as the clematis clings to the stout tree for sup- port. Perhaps the, knowledge that her aunt and cousin were coming to Baltimore, where she would be exposed to annoyance. and might be to persecution from them, had created this indefinable apprehension of evil. Mosely noticed the change and divined the cause. He soothed her anxiety and inspired hope by the tender and cheering words he used. So they parted, with the ,understanding that she would meet him in Washington in- company with Mrs. Bright during the following fortnight, (I e^    CHAPTER XIX. During the winter season the Risley party, accompanied by Lanabere, visited Washington. Though not so large as at Niagara, there were several of the same individuals in it, and it had all the characteristics of American trav- ellers and pleasure seekers going about in squads. Mrs Risley accompanied her daughter, of course, and there were, besides, Mr. Roland, Miss Brown, and the New Eng- land post, Mr. Bixby. Mr. White having failed to win the affections of Miss Risley, and losing his mentor, Mr. Sel- man, had consoled himself by marrying the eldest Miss Brown, and had settled down as a Boston swell. Mr. Risley remained at home to watch the bears of Wall street, for they had commenced to devour his pile of mining and guano stocks. Mrs. Lovejoy Was still seeking her affinity among her spiritualist acquaintances. The mathematician and astronomer, Miss Harrington, was absorbed at home among the learned, studying the- length and strength of- the last comet's tail. This was the condition and location of the members of the grand party which Mosely had seen at the Falls, and who made such a flourish there. Lanabere was much pleased to meet Mosely again at the capital, where he had received front him many kind at- tentions and much instruction. Mrs. Lanabere and her mother were very complaisant; Mr. Roland was hand somely and imperturbably polite as usual; Miss Brown was affable; and Bixby, though possessing an abundant share of egotism and confidence, was shy and discon- certed, recollecting, perhaps, his connection with the, abi- duction of Mrs. Bright's servant.   * ' *   It was evident Mrs. Risley, who still directed her daughter's movements in. a great measure, had learned that Washington was a very different place to New York or the other cities of the North in its society. She did not expect to make such a sensation there as she had at home, at Niagara, and at Saratoga. Still she was not without hope of making a considerable figure, and having it duly published to the world through the facile pen of the literary gentleman whom she had attached to her party. While there could not be found\in any other place, per- haps, within the same limited space, such a heterogeneous and an indiscriminate mixture of society as in Washing- ton, there were few places where more real refinement and cultivation could be seen than among'a certain class in that city. No place afforded greater facilities-for entering society, and no where did people sooner find their lever.------ Intellect, refinement and taste were more potent than mere wealth or show. The doors of the family residences did not fly open to the patent sewing machine man because he had an income of $200,000 a year and drove a carriage and six. Mrs. Risley, realizing the truth of what is here remarked, and knowing that Mosely had the entree to the best society, she was particularly polite to him, and so- licited his friendly efforts to procure invitations for her party. The balls and those dancing parties called "hops," at the hotels, which were frequent at Washington in the sea- son, were generally common to all who could put on a de- cent dress or could manage to board for the time at these places. Nor was there any difficulty in getting an invita- tion if one were required, or of obtaining admission with- out. Either the hotel keepers or their guests, or both to- gether, got up these entertainments, and frequently in a spirit of rivalry as well as for amusement. The persons attending these formed necessarily a mixed crowd, and were chiefly, from the floating population that periodically   visited the capital during the session of Congress. Some well bred and accomplished people, such as the families of certain members of Congress, attended them; but hardly any of the residents of the First ward, the elite of Wash- ington, were to be seen there. The mixture of all classes at the President's weekly evening receptions, or levees, as thsy were called, was scarcely more striking than at the hotel balls. There was a gradation in the character of these gatherings, however, from Willard's, where fashion- able people from the North and the army and navy offi- cers usually were located, to the cheap taverns and board- ing houses on the lower part of the avenue. But every- where there was the ball or the hop. Mrs. Risley and her party affected to have a contempt for such free republican crowds, and expressed their sur- prise to see persons of distinction attend them. They en- tertained much the same opinion of the receptions or par- ties at the residences of the Cabinet officers, though these were really more select and were attended only upon special invitation. ' It is deplorable, Mr. Mosely, to see the indiscriminate mingling of vulgar people with'the wealthy and educated at the capital of our country," observed Mrs. Lanabere one day when conversing on this subject. "Whyx I saw my milliner starring it at the Secretary's ball as if she had been one of the magnated of the land, and Mr. Roland says he saw a  brother's clerk, on another occasion, per- forming the part of an exquisite gallant to the President's daughter and other ladies of high position. Then the shocking taste I see exhibited in dress and manners by a class of people who have pretensions to be distinguished impresses one with the belief that they have just emerged for the first time from the country village in which they were born, and have not seen the fashions for the last twenty years. I understand many of these people are relatives and friends of members of Congress from the   rural districts: What at state of society! I had no idea ' of seeing such at Washington. We are fast degenerating, as Mr. Roland justly remarked, toward a vulgar equality, like that of the sans culotte regime in France during the revolutionary period."    *  Mosely, who knew the character of Washington society much better than Mrs. Lanabere or her party, and who understood the affected fastidiousness of that class of up- starts, undertook to correct in some respects the views expressed. "While I agree with you, Madame," he said, " in what you have remarked about the mixture of society in the sphere you have seen it, at the hotels and receptions given by the families of government officials, I must inform you that this is composed chiefly of the floating and non-resid- ent population. Under this phase of social life, which results necessarily from our republican institutions, bold and adroit pretenders and vulgar parvenus may flourish on the surface for a time, like kings, queens and nobles on a stage, but their position is ephemeral. True, an adventurer may now and then succeed in making his way here, as everywhere else, but generally such individuals, as well as the class of foreign refugee schemers, who thrive so much in our cities, find little encouragement. Merit, intelligence and character, and not mere wealth, glitter or pretence, give a passport to the proper resident society of Washington. If you remain long enough to see this, the opinion you have expressed will become modified. You will receive an invitation to the party of Mrs. in the First ward, which is to be given in a few days, and ou will  see nothing there to offend the most fastidious-te ; you will meet only those who are well bred, unpretending and refined." It was evident Mrs. Lanabere-echoed tmie sentiments and words of Mr. Roland in this conversation, though they accorded with her own views, for that gentleman had i   ily 4    o .aJ/c citunrlta r roSS. expressed his disgust for the federal capital in the same strain. His language was prompted, probably, by a desire to impress others with his critical taste and importance, tnore than by anything else. Besides, he was really out of his element. There was no opera, fast teams, Blooming- dale road, Wall street, stock excitements, or anything in which he took pleasure; and he was deprived of many of the opportunitiea he enjoyed in New York of being atten. tive to Mrs. Lanabere. Hence, while Lanabere was more pleased with his visit to the capital than with his residence in the metropolis, his wife was dissatisfied and weary, and sought consolation in the company and fellow feeling of Mr. Roland. If one felt ennui the other suffered the same; if she sighed for the gayeties of New York he sighed also. They were perfectly- congenial to each other in this respect. They both expressed surprise and disappointment that Mr. Lanabere had not more taste than to be interested in such a stupid place, as they called Washington. Although Mr. Roland had fewer advantages of being the gallant of Mrs. Lana- bere than in New York, he lost no opportunity, especially in the absence of her husband and friends, to enjoy her company. If there was no opera to which he could escort her, he made her his companion in quiet walks and rides and parlor conversation when ever he found an opportune ity. Mrs. Lanabere's personal beauty and dash had excited attention, and especially from the fast members of Con- gress, who flattered her greatly; but that was all the sensation any of the party were able to make. Having thus failed, they all urged an early departure from the city. Mrs. Risley was highly chagrined, for her literary friend had not found an opportunity of publishing her triumphs as at the watering places. Mr. Bixby had done all he could to glorify his patroness through the newspapers, not being at all scrupulous about drawing upon his imagina.-   The Diamond Cross.       195 tlon. He had minutely described her aippearance and that of her daughter, their dresses and jewelry, and the impres- sion they made at one of the President's levees ; but this kind of puffing being so common, and there being so many rivals for the same notoriety, few saw or noticed his efforts. In fact, the Risley party remained in comparative ob scurity. All wished to leave but Lanabere. He having been made acquainted with many of the distinguished men of the Country by Mosely, and having advantages to gratify his' taste in studying political questions, spent his time agreeably, and resolved to remain longer. It was the first time, probably, he had opposed the wishes of his wife, and might have sacrificed then his own inclinations to her will, for he'was kind and loved her, but he believed he would be yielding to a caprice which had been inspired by her mother and Mr. Roland. When she saw thelstand he had taken she became vexed and stubboin, and in her anger imprudently made an invidious and offensive comparison between Mr. Roland and her husband. Lanabere rose with astonishment ; his sensitive and im- petuous soul was aroused; his face was flushed with pas- sion, pride and jealousy, and he gazed at her steadily and silently for a few moments, as if to search her heart and thoughts before he spoke. He then said, with suppressed emotion, "Good God, what did I hear? Was it my wife, my much-loved wife, who uttered these words? So soon, too! I wedded you but yesterday. What can you mean, Gertrude?"She was surprised at the mistake she had made in a moment of petulance, and at the effect pro- duced, but there were no tears of repentance; she main- tained a haughty bearing, like a spoiled, improperly trained child, as she had been. She made no reply and turned away. Lanabere might "not have been so much moved by this unhappy incident had he not noticed previously the inti-   1v)U      The Diamond Cross. macy existing between his wife and Mr. I oland-an in- timacy that existed before his marriage, that had been car- cied beyond his idea of discretion or propri ty, and that had at times annoyed him. He had not beer, jealous up to that time on account of any supposed unfaithfulness in his wife, for hehad too much confidence in he:r love and honor. He had tolerated her familiar acquaintance wit . Mr. Roland on account of her education and the manner in which she had been brought up, and because he con- sidered such liberty in a married woman was allowed her. True. he did not approve of such liberty, and had felt an indefinable uneasiness to see his wife so free, but had not till that moment been apprehensive of danger to his domestic peace. Who but those who feel it can realize the ancguish a hus- band or wife suffers when jealousy first enters the heart? To an impassioned nature like Lanabere's--to one who loves with the ardor he did-such a feeling, whether well or ill-founded, is like a consuming fire. It leads the vic- tim to look at every act from distorted views and a disor- dered imagination. What Lanabere deemed harmless be- fore he then regarded as gross impropriety. The invidious and disparaging words Mrs. Lanabere uttered to him it. connection with her encomium  on Mr. Roland, which might have been only the expression of ill-temper, and which might have produced on many husbands no other effec than temporary bad feeling, sank deep into his sen- sitive soul. Mrs. Lanabere -gomg so often to the opera with Mr. Roland, and her rides, walks, and parlor conver- sations alone with him, all arose in his mind as having a significance he had not given to them previously. "Married so short a time, and my wedded life clouded already!" he said to himself, as he paced the floor in agi- tation, "Is it possibte Gertrude does not love me?-can love another?--can have more regard for that fashionable enigma. than for her husband? Could she indulge an im-   T He, Diamond Cross.    197 proper sentiment for any one? For this man, who possesses none of those high qualities of a gentleman which might fascinate an educated and accomplished woman? I ought not to believe it. Yet their tastes are congenial; he is her countryman, and I am a foreigner: and though he has few mental qualifications and little learning, he is an astute man of the world, studies his personal appearance, good manners and whatever may strike the fancy of women. He makes himself aufait in all those things that please fash- ionable city ladies. He has been the oracle of both Mrs. Lanebere and her mother in such matters. His impertur- bility and stereotyped politeness now impresses me that, he is an artful and deep designing man. Oh, how miser- able the least doubt of my wife's love and fidelity makes me! I scarcely dare to doubt, and, perhaps, 1 have no reason for doubt, yet my soul is on the rack. I will not live thus ; I will be satisfied." "Why? Why is this? Think'st thou, I'd make a life of jealousy, To follow still the changes of the moon With fresh suspicions? No; to be once in doubt, Is-once to be resolved.  'Tis not to make me jealous To say-my wife is fair, feeds well, loves company Is free of speech, sings. plays, and dances well; Where virtue is, these are more virtuous. I'll see, before I doubt; when I doubt, prove; And on the proof, there is no more of love but this-- Away at once with love, or jealousy. Such were the conflicting and tumultuous thoughts agi- tating. Lanabere. His confidence was shaken, and he could not eradicate suspicion from his mind. Love for his wife and pride contended with jealousy and fear, and the latter conquered. He became thoughtful and reserved, in spite of his efforts to be agreesble. Neither he nor Mrs. Lana- ,   I98       The Diamond Cross. bere adverted again to the circumstance that had produced such an effect upon them; nor did she mention Mr. Ro land's name to him after that. Her manner was very constrained ; she said little, and appeared to be con- trolled by mingled feelings of pride and shame. If she were wrong and would have acknowledged it, her loving and generous husband would have forgiven her instantly, providing her faults were only those of indiscretion, and not criminal. She could have removed a heavy weight from his breast, and their future happiness could have been secured, for he was disposed to make allowances for such faults, considering they arose more from her training and associations than from a bad nature. But she said nothing, and appeared to avoid his company as if uneasy in his pre- sence. Consequently repulsion took place of attraction, and every hour they were becoming nlore estranged. From the time the difficulty occurred between Lanabere and his wife, Mr. Roland ceased to be so specially atten. tive to her apparently, and was seldom seen in her com- pany. Lanabere was induced to believe from this circum- stance that she had informed that gentlesnan of what had happened. The social relations between Lanabere and iMr. Roland became changed in consequence. Still Mr. Roland remained as undisturbed and self-possessed- as ever, and even evinced a disposition to make himself agreeable to Lanabere. The great dramatist says :- Trifles light as air Are, to the jealous, confirmation strong As proofs of holy writ. So it was with Lanabere. Everything that had trans- spired between Mr. Roland and his wife came to his mem- ory tinged with this feeling. The supposition, too, -that she had made Mr. Roland acquainted with his suspicions produced the same effect. But other occurrences-one of   The Diamond Cross.      99 which may be mentioned--added fuel to the fire. Mrs. Lanabere rode out alone one day, for the purpose, as she said, of purchasing certain things she needed. Shortly after she left the hotel Lanabere went out also to walk in the square opposite the President's house. When he reached this spot he was surprieed to find his wife prome- nading with Mr. Roland, instead of being at the stores where she professed to be going. Such an occurrence might not have had any effect upon him, probably, before his jealousy was aroused, as Mr. Roland had been regarded an intimate friend of the family, and had been frequently the companion of Mrs. Lanabere in her walks; but it was very different then. He saw she had not told him the truth, and his anger was excited. He could scarcely re- frain from violently uttering what he thought and felt. This led to a decided coldness between the husband and wife, and a complete rupture of social relations between the for- mer and Mr. Roland. Under these circumstances Lanabere became extremely restless and could not endure the thought of being near Mr. Roland. He changed his puropose of spending some time in Washington, consequently, and resolved to leave in a day or two, taking his wife with him, for New Orleans and his plantation. He thought, too, such a step afforded the only hope, if hope still remained, of separating Mrs. Lanabere from the baneful influences she was under and- of restoring his own peace of mind. When they left New York it was understood Mr. Roland' was to accompany them to Louisiana. The change that had taken place in Lanabere's relations with that person precluded this arrangement being carried out, of course, and Mrs. Lanabere was required to part with her friend at the federal capital. As soon as Lanabere announced his purpose she seemed distressed, pleaded indisposition, and said she wished to return to New York to stay with her mother. She urged   that as she had never lived out of a city, plantation life would be unendurable : that she had- no acuqaintances in Louisiana, and that as soon as she should feel well enough to travel so far, and her mother be able to accompany her, she would join him in the South. She added that she had understood he intended to reside in New York, and to visit the South only occasionally to attend to his affairs, and that, considering her condition, he would travel, trans- act business, and return sooner and better without her. Mrs. Risley supported her daughter's views in much the same train of reasoning, laying greater stress, however, on the sudden indisposition of Mrs. Lanabere. Some weight was given to this argument by the fad that Mrs. Lanabere had complained of illness the two days previous, and had kept her room the greater part of that time. Lanabere was perplexed and annoyed beyond measure. His kind heart revolted at the thought of forcing his wife to take such a long journey and then to be among strang- ers when indisposed, notwithstanding his anger at her con- duct. Yet to suffer her to remain with those from whom he was most anxious to remove her, would, he believed fearfully torment him, ruin her, and destroy their peace forever. In this dilemma he informed her frankly and kindly that he considered their happiness could be secured only by leaving the North for a time ; that he should be extremely miserable if she returned to New York while he went to Louisiana; that her first duty was to her husband, and that he would delay his journey till she should be fully recovered and able to travel. She wept when he reasoned thus, as if she felt the force of what he said but had not the moral power to yield, and then declared she could not leave her mother. Seeing his wife's mind was set on returning to New York, he thought in his distress of informing Mosely, the only person he felt he could call a faithful friend in Amer- ica, of what had occurred and of asking his advice. It   Thze Diamond Cross.      201 was not without some repugnance, however, that he thought of taking this step, though he had the greatest re- gard for and confidence in that gentleman. He was con- scious of having mnade a hasty match, and, as he then feared, an imprudent one, and was unwilling to expose his weakness even to a friend. But his trouble and perplexity pressed too heavily on his heart to be restrained by pride, and he finally resolved to converse with Mosely on the subject. Mosely noticed the change that had come over Lanabere and his wife, and suspected the cause. He foresaw that the intimacy existing between Roland-the cool, designing fashionable. man of the world-and Mrs. Lanabere, the gay, handsome, spoiled young   women of fast society, would result in destroying the peace of the husband. But he made no remark on what he apprehended or saw, and did not appear to nottce, even, the change that had taken place in the parties. When Lanabere found an opprtunity to converse with Mosely he opened the subject that absorbed all his thoughts. He could not refrain from giving full expression to his feelings, though his pride would have made him more reti- cent. He said:-"I am wretched, and I come to you, my esteemed friend, for consolation and advice. I, who .have youth, a superfluity of wealth, and everything to make me happy, as I supposed, am suddenly plunged into/a sea of trouble. You know that I fondly loved Gertrude, though you cannot know how much I loved her. I thought I had attained the acme of happiness when, in addition to the fortune which came into my possession, I made this fascin- ating woman my wife. So great and sudden was the change from my life of legal and editorial toil in Paris to that tide of happiness, that at times I could scarcely be- lieve the reality. It seemed like a dream. Oh, how 1 am the sport of fortune I But a short time married, and I am  202   2Te Dianzond Cross. jealous of my wife. Ah, worse than that-I am persuaded I have cause for my suspicion. What hell could be more tormenting? I scarcely know what I do or where I wan- der, my mind is so agitated and irresolute.. -What is wealth to me now? I would rather live and die in poverty than suffer thus." In this manner Lanabere gave vent to his anguish while relating what had occurred. Mosely was sorry to hear of the misfortune and witness the distress, of Lanabere ; but regretted being placed in tile delicate situation of counsellor under such; circum- stances. What could he say or how advise? Yet, could he refuse to listen to the appeal of one who placed so much confidence in him, and looked to him for friendly counsel? He feared Mrs. Lanabere's conduct had been imprudent, but he could neither say that nor deceive Lanabere. He hoped, however, that it had not been criminal, and that her imprudence arose rather from love of admiration and a foolish and dangerous habit of flirting than from anything worse. He was disposed to be charitable to her faults, on account of her education and training, and because of the critical situation she had been placed in with a polished roue by a weak father and silly mother. He advised Lanabere, therefore, to restrain his jealous and angry feelings, and to suspend judgment on the actions of his wife. He said appearances might have deceived him; that Mrs. Lanabere might not have had an improper motive; that she was young and inexperienced; that women, both single and married, were more free in America than in some other countries; that the examples set her, the teaching she had received, and her associations, had not been such as to make her discreet, and that she might not have been conscious of acting imprudently. He added that Lanabere ought to take her away from New York and the influeuce she had been under, and to reason with her gently and kindly on the propriety of that course.   The Diamond Cross.       203 "Ah, my friend," Lanabere replied, " if I could carry out your advice, and my wife would yield, to my wishes, as she ought. I might have hope; but I fear she is determined to oppose me and to remain with her mother. I will try again, however, the power of reason and kirdly persuasion, and if that should fail my peace will be lost for ever. Nothing could then restore my confidence." Lanabere did make another effort after this conversa- tion to induce his wife to go with him to Louisiana, but she still pleaded indisposition and the misery of under-. taking such 'a journey and residence away from her friends. Mrs. Risley went so far as to tell him he was cruel to her daughter in insisting thus on taking her away, and that tunder the circumstances she could not advise Gertrude to leave home and the protection of her relations. The result of this last effort, the persistent determina- tion of Mrs. Lanabere to separate herself from her hus- band, and the provoking language of Mrs..Risley had reached the last point of forbearance. Lanabere's heart was racked by a conflict of passions--he was like a crazy man, hardly knowing what he did. Life was scarcely en- durable, and at times he thought of self-destruction. For- tunately reason came to his aid again, and stimulated his pride, telling him that his wife 'had proved herself to be unworthy of the love he lavished upon her. He had gen- erously tnade her independent by assigning to her a hand- some income from his estate, and she could live in luxury without his purse. He could not enforce the rights of a husband had he been so inclined, and he had too much self-respect to try the experiment. He spurned the thought of constraining her to do her duty. He had been very liberal in bestowing a part of his wealth upon her and the family. He had afforded means to her father to carry out mining and stock, enterprises, but he preferred losing all this to sacrificing his amourpropre. Besides, he knew that he had been foolish enough \to let this difficulty with   his wife be known, the world probably would have ridi- culed him and sympathized with her. He had seen enough of the country to understand that a man has public opinion against him whenever contending with a woman. He sub- mitted, therefore, to be the victim, and saw his wife depart with her mother to New York without any further efforts to detain her. After her departure Lanabere appeared to be bereft of hope. His active mind lost its energy and all relish for pleasure. He clung to Mosely as if that gentleman were the only friend left in the world. He abandoned his pur- pose of going to Louisiana immediately, thinking he might assuage his grief in the society and by the council of his friend at Washington.   A "   CHAPTER XX.   AT the time Mosely was expefting Laura to come to Washington, and when he hoped for much happiness in her society there, he received a letter that dashed the cup of promised joy from his lips. Mrs. Sharp, who had been so intent on having Laura marry her son, became extremely angry when she failed in her purpose, and in a spirit of revenge revealed the secret relating to her brother's family which she had threatened to make known. She declared Laura was not the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Howard,-that they never had but two children, which died, and that Laura was a foundling adopted in the place of one of these. This declaration, uttered in the presence of Mrs. Bright, though made by an angry and revengeful woman, was so explicit, and seemed to have such a direct reference to her previous inuendoes, that Laurawas stunned, and resolved to return home immediately to learn the truth or falsehood of this startling assertion. She frankly informed Mosely of the grievous occurrence, and said that, painful as it would be to leave him, and to forego the enjoyment she had anticipated in Washington, she must return home. As soon as he received the letter from Laura he hastened to Baltimore. He knew she .must be greatly distressed, and his anxiety to soothe her gave wings to his feet. Astounding as Mrs. Sharp's statement was, he feared it was too true, for it appeared to be the key to that person's threatening language and bearing previously, as well as to the change that had taken place in Mr. and Mrs. Howard. The perplexing mystery annoyed him, and he was grieved  for his beloved Laura, who, if Mrs. Sharp's words were true, was no longer a happy daughter of fond parents, but a nameless, motherless and fatherless girl. Not that his regard for her would be diminished; no, his noble heart swelled with sympathy and greater love the more her troubles increased. "My dear Laura," he said to himself, musingly, ," shall not be without a legitimate name. She shall have mine. I will be husband, mother, father, all to her. Whoever she may be--whoever may have been her parents, God stamped her in the mould of nature's nobility. She could not be more charming were she the daughter of a king; and if she were born in a hovel that would not make her the less virtuous, refined and beautiful. Ah, she is the queen of my soul! Wherever planted, and however raised, she is the peerless flower of all I have seen in the world. Nothing shall separate me from her. This very misfortune shall be made a blessing by hastening our union and bind- ing us together forever. Yes, the very evils that now afili  I her soul and the  malevolence of her enemies shall contribute to our speedy happiness." In this frame of mind hle reached Mrs. Bright's residence. He found Laura overwhelmed   with grief, as he feared he should find her. She who was as bright and joyous as a sunbeam until recently was crushed  to the earth. The fair flower droops its head tremblingly under the first rude storm, while the stronger and more experienced plant en- dures more hardily. There was no longer that beaming countenance which, like the smiling Aurora, made all cheer- ful around, nor the lightness of step which indicates joy- ousness. Her heart was full of heaviness when she met Mosley, and tears gushed from her eyes in spite of her ef- forts to restrain them. These told more eloquently than words what she felt--indeed, she could not speak till her heart thus found relief Recovering, she said, "I fear, dear Charles, you will   The Diamond Cross.      207 deem me weak for giving way to my sorrow in this man- ner, and I feel that I am unreasonable to weep now you a have come, and when I am surrounded by such devoted friends; but your presence brought to my memory my happy home when you first saw me there, and when I learned that you loved me. I could not check my tears. The dreams of a bright future which I have indulged in, contrasted with the dark uncertainty I now perceive lies before me, were vividly before my mind-the happy and the gloomy pictures in one view, and my full heart would not be restrained." a, That woman is cruelly revenged on me for refusing to marry her son. She has turned the brightest day into darkness. Though I do not know her malicious state- ment is true, and I would to God I never might know it to be true, I fear it is so. You rem er my forbodings of evil after I heard her threatenings and saw the effed they produced at home; but I little thought I should receive such a shock. I did not want any other or better father and mother than those who raised me. Oh, was it not cruel, then, to let me know I was not of their blood- ,not really their child? No parents could have been fonder and more indulgent to me. 'I was happy not having this knowledge; and, now, like Eve when driven from paradise, I am wretched in its possession. Without father or mother, without a legitimate name, not knowing her who gave me birth and whose blood courses in my veins-oh, what a painful thought! How mysterious are the ways of Provi- dence! I must endeavor, by the grace of God, to teach my heart submission, and seek peace and comfort in His holy religion." "I know, my dear Laura," Mosely responded, " that the extraordinary assertion of Mrs. Sharp must be very dis- tressing to you, and I share in your distress; but remem- ber your character cannot be assailed-you are innocent -you have done -no wrong. There may be something yet   unexplained, whichcwhen known, may turn this very trouble into joy. Let us not lticipate evil, then, but rather let us hope. Above all, remember that the events of our lives springs not from blind fate, and that we are nnder a just and good Providence that overrules all. Whatever betide, I will be your defender and comforter. I am blessed in having your love. You are all the world to me. May I not, then, offer you my name, and have a more perfect title to be your protector? Could I confer upon you the most exalted name, and had I the wealth of the Indies to bestow upon you, these would be less than you are worthy of 0" how proud and happy I should feel to know you mine fox ever." "Could you marry a nameless girl?" rejoined Laura. Ah, I know you are good and true. I fully appreciate your love and noble character. I know you would make any sacrifices for me ; but, that must not be. I will never be the wife of another, but I cannot beeome yours, Charles, till I discover my parentage and know I am worthy of you. I shall leave for home immediately, and may learn there my   history and destiny. My mind is passing through a trying ordeal, between hope and fear--in hope that I may be able to realize the bliss you promise me, and in fear that the sun of my earthly joy is about to set forever. If it be the will of God, the curtain which now shrouds this mystery will be raised, and the brights days of the past may be restored. But should it not be so, I must be pre- pared to resign myself to my fate." Mosely would have urged her to yield to his wishes and was about to declare again that her birth, name, relatives or anything else, had not the least weight in comparison with her superior charadter and his love; but he saw she was firm in her resolution. She, too, prevented his appeal and arguments byturning the conversation to her proposed journey. "Then you must permit me, my dear Laura," he said,    "to accompany you home. I cannot forego that pleasure especially as I hope to hear there such a solution of Mrs. Sharp's statement as may relieve your mind and remove every obstruction to the consummation of our happiness." ",I shall be happy to have your company, as you know, Charles," responded Laura, " and I prefer you should bel when I learn my fate, for 1 shall have nothing to conceall from you; but do not neglect your business or your ac quaintances in Washington." It was arranged, accordingly, that he should accompany her, and that they would start the following morning. Mrs. Bright was also much, distressed at what had oc- curred, for she loved Laura as a sister. Then she had been anticipating much enjoyment in her society at Wash- ington, where they had prepared to go just at the time Mrs. Sharp made her astounding revelation. After that she had no heart for the gayelties of the federal capital, and resolved to remain at home. The trouble and departure of her friend destroyed her own pleasure. The morning on which Laura and Mosely left Baltimore was very unpropitious. The weather had been severely cold some days before, and a fierce snow storm was then raging. Mosely suggested the propriety of remaining till the weather should be more favorable, particularly as the railroad track through the mountains might be obstructed. But Laura had resolved and prepared to go, and preferred enduring possible inconveniences to delay. "It will suit the temper of my mind and the circum- stances of my sittaion," she said. "The stormy weather represents my feelig I now, just as the sunshine, the calm evenings and mornngs and the rosy, mellow tints of au- tumn represented them when we were in the country to- gether. What a change I have experienced!. Then win- ter even, with all its sa/d signs of desolation and death, did not bring dejection of mind. Though the forest losts its lively green and gay colors, and the flowers no longer   bloomed or shed their fragrance though the birdsceased  to sing their morning hymns as they revelled in delight un- der the clear blue canopy of heaven; and though the sun was shrouded in gloom and all nature appeared in mourn ing, I was joyful. Now, winter is in my soul. eren it not for your love, which comforts me and gives promise of returning spring, I should be very wretched. This is the first great sorrow of my life, really; and this suffering may be for my good. It is the common lot of humanity, and I shall learn to sympathize with others." Starting early in the morning, and meeting with no se- rious obstacles, notwithstanding the snow storm, they reached the village near Laura's home that evening. Mr.  and Mrs. Howard were both there with a carriage to meet them. The kind old lady and gentleman harrae been in- formed by a letter of the cause of Laura's return so sud denly, and they met her with hearts full of grief.  ud- Tears rolled down their cheeks while they, with orn mingled feelings of pleasure and sorrow, fondly embraced her; for they were glad to have her near them again, and were distressed at the cause of her return o father and mother could love a child more dearly; indeed, it seemed as if the love fcf many children had been cont entred on her.   "My dearest mother and father," Laura said, as she wept and threw her arms around the neck of one and the other,!" pardon my distress and anxiety. It cannot b that I ant not your child-your own offspring Oh, why did Ithat not close my ears when they told me you were not iy father and mother? Why did I listen to tne cruel words Her heart was too full to say more, and theirs to reply. No one uttered a word for some minutes, for deep grief is silent. Wherl Mr. and Mrs. Howard could control their feelings they endeavored to calm her. They said they would explain what Mrs. Sharp meant when they should reach home and she become composed.    The Diamond Cross.       2.1 I As the least agitations causes an overcharged cloud to break in showers, so the full soul is touched and its sluices opened by thoughts or incidents connedted with the place or subject that distresses it. Thus with Laura; the fami- liar faces she saw, the roads and lanes she had ridden and walked over so frequently with a light heart, the house and garden in which she had enjoyed so much happiness-all touched her tender heart, and she wept anew as each objedt met her sight. Afier Laura became more composed she asked for the promised explanation of Mrs. Sharp's extraordinary asser- tions.' She was prepared to hear the worst and nerved herself for the ordeal. Mr. and Mrs. Howard remained silent a few moments, as if they dreaded telling the truth. "Ah!" she exclaimed, as she gazed at their sorrowful countenances "it is too true! But let me know all. I will endeavor to be calm and bear the weight of the terri- ble revelation I must hear." "My dearest child," Mrs. Howard replied, " for you are my child, though I did not give you-rt, we do not know who were your mother or father. Mr. O'Donnell knows, but he has kept his own secret even from us. I received you when you were an infant between two and three months old, at the request of Mr. O'Donnell. I lost a daughter a month 'older than you at the time, and was too well pleased to take you in its place to demur on account of the secret he insisted on keeping to himself. He wished us to adopt you as our child, giving you our name, and to let no one know to the contrary. He assured us you were the legiti- Lmate offspring of respectable parents and an orphan. , We knew Mr. O'Donnell's high character and position, and did not doubt the truth of what he said. We always thought your parentage was not revealed because of some serious family difficulty. But to what family you are related we do not know.  You were brought in the arms of a colored nurse, Mr. O'Donnell being in the carriage that conveyed   you. I never saw the nurse afterward. Not long after that we removed to this farm, which Mr. O'Donnell then owned. He gave us a life estate in it, and made you the heir. A few of our relations, among whom was Mrs. Sharp, knew of the death of my own child, and of your adoption, though none knew from whom we received you. -The only relic or link connected with your mother that we ever saw or heard of is your diamond cross. Mr. O'Don- nell informed us it had been hers. We received you at such a tender age and loved you so dearly that we had al- most forgotten you were not our flesh and blood. How cruel was my siser to remind us of it, and to make us all unhappy. . "And now, my dear child," continued the affectionate old lady, while embracing Laura, " you must not love us the less, for we could not love you more had you been born to us. I nourished you in infancy with my own breast; you are a part of myself; and you can not cease to be my daughter. "Yes, you shall continue to be my mother," said Laura fondly and soothingly, " for I have known no other, and none could have been more loving. You will not deem me wanting in love to you if I think sometimes of her to whom I owe my existence, and am troubled about the mystery that surrounds my birth and parentage." Neither the deep affection of Laura for her putative mo- ther and father, nor the declaration that she was the legi- timate offspring of respectable parents, could heal the wound that had been inflicted. She remained thoughtful and dejected. When Laura and Mosely were together on the morning after the above conversation and disclosure, he again en- treated her not to be troubled, assuring her, .he hoped and thought, the dark lowering cloud which lately hung and still lingered over her would be chased away. He repeated   jnc aze a nrzuna brOSS.    2 13  his wish to become her legitimate protector. "You found a loving mother and father in Mrs. and Mr. Howard," he said, "and now may I not hope you will make me su- premely happy in accepting a closer and dearer relation in lite. You are more precious to me than wealth, fame, or all the world contains." "I know, dear Charles, your devotion to me," Laura replied;, c and I hope we may realize at no distant day the happiness we desire; but I must solve first the mystery of my birth which presses upon my heart like a heavy weight." What a secret link there is in nature binding us to those from whom we have our being. Now, my soul yearns for knowledge of my, mother--my own mother who gave me life. I never knew her, and may never see her, yet how dear is the sacred name even of mother. I do not love less her I have called mother because of this disclosure, but my heart longs for her I have not. Questions as to my real parents, who they were, what was their fate, and the necessity for such a profound secret about them and my birth, crowd into my mind and distress me. There must have been some powerful motive for such secrecy ; and I can not be happy till all be revealed. May God, in his good providence, bring to light what is concealed. "Mr. O'Donnell seems to be the sole depository of the secret. Surely he cannot withhold from me that which concerns me so much. He is a very dear friend, and loves me too well 'not to relieve my anxiety., But why should he, who, as far as I know, is not a relation, have taken such a deep interest in me? He has always been more like a father than a friend merely; and you heard that he gave this farm to us. I have thought it strange at times that he should be so fond and careful of me, and so liberal to me, as he has been from my earliest recollection, especially as this conduct in such an experienced and intelligent gentleman could not spring from eccentricity or. an extraordinary freak of fancy."  "Ah! all is dark and unfathomable unless he enligh- tens me. It is now over two months since he left for Eu- rope. How anxiously I shall look for his return! I trust it may not be long before I see him ; and then, dear Char- les, I hqpe there will be nothing to prevent the realization of our wishes. In the meantime I shall remain at my loved childhood's home, endeavoring to console myself, and in soothing and cherishing those who have been to me as the kindest and best of parents." Mosely saw the propriety of what Laura said, especially when he reflected that Mr. O'Donnell had requested her to make no serious engagement till she could see him again. He acquiesced in her wishes, therefore, though in the ardor of his love he had urged on an early marriage. He tried to be contented and to cheer her by drawing hopeful pictures of the time to come. "Thoughts of the future," he said, " will be like sweet dreams; and I shall hail each successive hour with increas- ing pleasure as it brings .me nearer the happy day of our union. When I look back over the journey of my life, with all its pleasures and hopes, and think of the present and future, I regard the past as almost a blank in comparison. The time when I first loved and was beloved by you was the beginning of my true existence. What a blessed place is this where my new life opened and developed. No other in the world is so dear to me. A thousand times since, I klve seen in my imagination this spot and every object in it associated with our conversations and walks. These walls seemed to echo your sweet voice to which I used to listen with delight; and I lived over again the happy hours we spent together. Now all is brought back to my memory with renewed freshness. I would fain linger here to realize again our former joys. But that cannot be; it is our fate to part once more, though not for long, and not without hope of a speedy reunion and ,brighter days."   Bee itiamontl, Cyross.     2 5 Mosely remained a short time only with Laura, as his engagemnents in Washington required his departure. Not expecting to be long separated and hoping for the early return of Mr. O'Donnell, when the mystery that troubled them might be cleared up and the obstacles to their mar- riage removed, he left with a heart lighter than L,aura's. She suffered more than when parting on any former occa- sion, seeming to dread separation, as if it were to be a long one or for ever. She did not express her apprehen- sions, for she felt she could give no reason for them. They were only a vague, inexpressible foreboding, which might naturally arise in a mind so distressed without any other cause. Under these circumstances they parted, Laura to remain at home till the return of Mr O'Donnell and Mosely to go to Washington.     2I6       The Diamond Crass. CHAPTER    XXI. "FATE seemed to sport with me as a wanton boy does with a limed bird," Lanabere said, with a serious face, one day to Mosely, as he entered the apartment where -that gentleman was sitting. "Two years ago I was poor, and living by mental labor at the midnight lamp. I Became rich suddenly and unexpectedly, without any effort on my part, and by a fortunate accident. I thought my happiness complete; but I learn now that the title to the wealth I so lately inherited is likely to be disputed." "I have just received letters from France, informing me that Mr. O'Donnell had visited my relatives and made the most searching inquiries about my late uncle, with a view, apparently, of contesting my right to the estate left me. The letters of introduction I gave him when he went to Europe, without knowing his motive in soliciting' them, have facilitated his purpose. The members of my family gave him all the information they could, and permitted him to take copies of letters in which my uncle referred to his proposed marriage and change of name. I suppose he wanted these as evidence; for he had a gentleman with him when the information was communicated, and he had the copied letters legally certified. My friends thought his re- quest for a copy of the letters and his investigations strange, and asked him if he had any particular objeft in seeking this information He merely said at first that his motive was to obtain evidence for a case with which Mr. Bouverie's early histor in America had some connection. He intimated afterwards that the estate of my late uncle was involved in this case. Though very polite he was not communicative, and did not say what claims there are on or for the property, who is the claimant, or on what   The Diamond Cross.       217 grounds my right is to be contested. I perceive now the motive for the pointed questions he put to me on the eve of his departure for Europe, which surprised me at the time, and which I mentioned to you immediately after." "I cannot conjecture how Mr. O'Donnell should be or can imagine himself to be interested in the estate. It is true we know little of the history or affairs of my uncle in America, about which there is a good deal of mystery ; and it is possible Mr. O'Donnell may be in possession of some secret concerning the property. If there be any claim it' must date back a long time, or .Mr. Dubois and Mr. Ellis, the executors of the will, would be aware of it, they having been intimate with my uncle and acquainted with his busi- ness during the twenty years he resided in Louisiana. It is evident they have not the least suspicion that my title is not perfect and unassailable, or that there can be any claim upon the estate. Both executors, Mr. Dubois and Mr. Ellis, the former the warm personal friend and the latter the attorney of Mr. Bouverie, gave me the fullest assurance that I had an undisputed title and the property unencum- bered. Besides, the precise and careful manner in which provision was made in the will for every liability, -and the surplus money on hand show that my uncle did not contem- plate any other claim than those he provided -for. I suppose, therefore, that whatever claims Mr. O'Donnell thinks he has are of a date anterior to my uncle's residence in Louis- iana.;" Mosely was not so much surprised as Lanabere at Mr. O'Donnell's proceedings ; for he had been informed in part by Mr. O'Donnell, before that gentleman went to Europe, what his motive was in going. But this was communicated under an injunction of secrecy, -and Mosely could not speak of it. Still he was as much perplexed and interested as Lanabere about the matter, believing that Laura was in some way concerned. "It is very strange," Mosely remarked, in reply to Lana-   bere ; "I am greatly perplexed, too, about Mr. O'Donnell's movements. But I hope they will not result in any injury to you. I should be sorry if they were to have such an end, especially as I may have partly caused them, though unconsciously and innocently, by my conversation and through introducing Mr. O'Donnell to you. Whatever objedt that gentleman has in view or motive for the course he has taken, I am sure he does not wish to injure you, and will avoid doing so if possible. He is a generous, high-minded man, and would not be guilty of acting unjustly or harming any one. We are looking for his returfto America by one of the first steamers. He wrote to say he would sail within a fortnight, and his letter was received some days ago. When he arrives he will throw light on this entangled subject, no doubt, and we must wait patiently that event." "Yes, sir," responded Lanabere, "I will try to believe that patience is a virtue. I hope your friend may soon return, and be more communicative than heretofore. I wish to know what fate has in reserve for me; though, really, I have become almost indifferent as to what may happen, and wish I had not been tempted to leave France. It seems that this good fortune, as it is called, is the ignis fatuus that lures me to trouble. I do not doubt that Mr. O'Donnell is an honorable gentleman, and I think he may be acting only from a sense of right; but he should have been more frank with me at our interview before he went to Europe. If he has a just claim to my uncle's estate; or any part of it, I would put no obstructions in his way of proving that. As to you, my friend, you have done noth ing but what I should have done had I been in your place and you in mine. I exonerate you from all blame, what- ever-may occur. I am prepared for any misfortune that may come. I am not very patient, however, and desire to know the worst; consequently I look with some anxiety for the arrival of Mr. O'Donnell."   lThe Diamonto  Cross.    219 Shortly after this conversation between Mosely and Lanabere the former learned that Mr. O'Donnell had taken his passage to America in one of the Atlantic steamships, and would sail on an early day. This cheering informa- tion came in letters from Mr. O'Donnell to both Mosely and Laura. But little was said in these communications with regard to those matters in which they were so much concerned, Mr. O'Donnell remarking simply that he had succeeded in accomplishing what he went to Europe for, and that he hoped to be able soon to convey joyful news to them. Those who have watched from day to day with anxious hearts the telegraph or signal that ought to impart intelli- gence of the arrival of a steamer bringing some beloved ,friend home, or some important news affecting their life- long happiness or misery, can imagine the anxiety of Laura and Mosely after they were informed of the vessel in which Mr. O'Donnell was to sail and the time of its sailing. No avaricious merchant ever looked more eagerly for his richly -laden ships. That steamship was the precious argosy of their hopes. The day of her expected arrival came, and she was not seen. The next day and the day after passed and she did not arrive, a week rolled by and there were no tidings of her. Oh, how Laura's heart ached during those sluggish hours of suspense! How tediously and anxiously they passed with Mosely! Another steamship arrived which left Eng- land seven days after, but brought no news of her. A list of names of the passengers on board the over-due vessel was published, and among them was the name of Mr. O'Donnell. There could be no-doubt about that gentleman having sailed in her. The most gloomy apprehensions were expressed in the newspapers as to her fate.: The weather had been unusually stormy, and there had been many wrecks along the American coast. The steamer which did arrive was disabled, and the captain reported that the weather had vS   3oo       3(Th2he Diamond Cross. been fearful during the greater part of his voyage. The only hope left was that the missing vessel might have gone back or reached some other point of land under stress of weather. , But after several weeks expired without bringing any news, and there having been some things picked up floating on the sea which it was believed belonged to her, all hope was lost. This sad disaster sent the iron shaft of sorrow into many souls ; brother bewailed brother, mothers their sons, wives their beloved husbands, and children their fond parents; but the grief of none was more poignant than that of Laura. Mr. O'Donnell had been father, brother, all to her, and she loved him dearly. Then, the insatiable ocean swallowed up all her hopes when he sank beneath its remorseless waves. The secret of her birth and parentage appeared to have been buried with him. Even her putative mother and father did not know it. Who, then, could tell her? The hope she had cherished that this mystery, which she con- sidered an obstacle to her marriage, would be solved by the return of Mr. O'Donnell, was destroyed. From the requesf Mr. O'Donnell made to her, shortly before he sailed to Europe, not to marry till he should re- turn and explain certain important matters deeply affedt- ing her welfare, and from the regret he expressed previous- ly that she loved Mosely,- she was assured there must have been some powerful motive prompting such conduct. When she heard, after his departure, that she was not the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Howard, she was convinced the request he had made, and his expressions of regret that she loved Mosely, had special reference to her parentage. She had resolved not to marry while this cloud of mystery hung over her, not only because her dearest friend had re- quested it, but also because her pride and delicacy would not suffer her to give her hand to Mosely till she could find her name, and could feel satisfied that her birth and parents were such as would make her worthy of him. Her   The Diamond Cross.       22I grief can be imagined better than described; therefore, at the loss of Mr. O'Donnell, who possessed the secret that was to determine her destiny--the secret that, when re- vealed, was to make her the happy wife of the man she loved; or, unrevealed, separate them forever. Mosely was aware of the resolution she had made, and though he was determined to make every effort to persuade her not to adhere to it, he feared he should be unsuccess- ful. He regretted the untimely death of Mr. O'Donnell, both for the grief it caused her and because he highly es- teemed that gentleman, but he deplored it more on ac- count of its probable consequences. He was afraid it would destroy all their expectations of a joyous future. Under these impressions, and with such feelings, he pro- ceeded to Laura's home as soon as he was convinced of the melancholy fate of Mr. O'Donnell. How changed was that former charming and happy spot when he arrived there! He saw the desolation of deep winter everywhere. The bright skies, rich foliage, beauti- ful autumnal tints, fragrant flowers and songs of birds had passed away. The heavens wdre black as if in mourning for all this departed beauty and sweetness. A gloomy si- lence pervaded the whole valley, and almost every living thing seemed to have left the earth. This scene suited well the condition of his mind, and was a fit emblem of the gloom in Mr. Howard's house. He found Laura full of grief for the loss of Mr. O'Don- nell and her blighted hopes, and Mr. and Mrs. Howard in deep sorrow. There were no visitors at the residence, and they were the only inhabitants, besides the servants, of that secluded spot. Mosely's appearance, which was not exp&ed on that day,- was like the visit of an angel. No one could have been more welcome. Mr. and Mrs. Howard appeared to forget momentarily their affliction as if inspired by hope from his presence. Laura, though bowed down by sor-   222      Yhe Diamond Cross. row, exhibited in her countenance the gratification she felt on seeing him. Her charming face, which had been al- ways radiant with joy before these troubles, as' the bright earth under a summer's sun, wore an aspect of fixed sad- ness. Still, there was mingled with this an expression of placid sweetness that showed her resignation to the fiat of Divine Providence. Under the influence of religion and by the strength of her exalted character, her mind could rise above earthly things and look to God for comfort. She approached Mosely as he entered the house, silently and with a mournful look. Her heart was too full for ut- terance. As he embraced her, a tear rolled down her cheek, which was more eloquent than word , and her head fell on his shoulders, as if pressed there by weight of sorrow and needing support. After some moments had passed in silent and she became more calm, raising her head, and looking 6eion ately at him, she said, "Ah, dear Charles, our joy is turned to mourning! All our bright visions have vanished ! My best and dearest friend lies buried in the deep, and with him the happiness we fondly anticipated. You did not know  Mr. O'Donnell as I knew him. You were ac- quainted with him but a short time, and not intimately; I knew him from the earliest recollections of childhood, and he was always most kind and affectionate. No father could have been more so. Indeed, he was father, brother, friend, guardian, preceptor-all to me. I was surprised at times that he, who did notclaim to be a rela- tion, should take such a deep interest in me. Those whom I regarded as my parents, and who loved me as such, exercised less control over me and my education than he. Though old enough to be my father, his mind accommo- dated itself to mycapacity and tastes, and he was as much a companion as a brother could have been. Then, in addi- tion to this amiability, childlike simplicity and ease of mnan- ner, which inspired love and confidence, his great in:teIli   The Diamond Cross.      223 gence and cultivation created in me a profound esteem. His was a charadcer that could inspire at the same time the, most easy and natural intercourse with the greatest respect. Can you not understand, then, why I loved him so much, and what cause there is for my present distress? And such a death as his! My heart bleeds to think of it. For one so noble and good to perish thus, in the prime and vigor of life, who would not weep? Have I not much cause for grief? Alas, my eyes would melt in tears had I not learned the duty of submission to that Providence which controls all events for wise ends." "Yes, my dear Laura,", Mosely replied, " you have rea- son to deplore the untimely death of such a friend. I' could not expect to find your home any other than a house of mourning. Letlne sympathize with you and urge you not to despair, for there may be yet a hopeful future. The present is gloomy, but not all darkness. I, too, mourn the loss of Mr. O'Donnell, because the secret of your parent- age, which has caused you much anxiety, appears to be lost with him. But remember it will not be always winter. Joyous spring and glorious summer follow in their appointed time. Often in the darkest and most cheerless season of our lives, when hope appears to have fled, there comes a ray of light which pierces the gloom ; and then gradually the clouds disperse and the sun breaks out in splendor to reanimate us with its rays. -Your good sense and Chris- tian philosophy have taught you to bear these afflictions with fortitude ; let them inspire you with hope also. Let mte be all that Mr. O'Donnell was to you. Yes, my Laura, let me be more than that-let me have that higher and dearer title I so much desire. I love you for yourself alone; and' your birth, however exalted or humble, could not affect your character or change my affection. You are worthy of more than I can bestow upon you, and I should be the. most honored by your consent to my wish. My happiness is wrapt up in you. It would be my delight to ?     .*     .-   224       The Diamond Cross. comfort and cherish you. I desire no greater honor, and I could have no greater joy. Grant this, my beloved Laura and leave the rest to God, whlo, in 'is providence, may yet unravel the mystery that distresses you." "Oh that I could respond to you, dear Charles, as my heart prompts," Laura said, " for you are very dear to me, and I know you would do and be all you promise. It pains me greatly that I must not accept the honor and happiness you would confer. I cannot take your name till know my own. This I have vowed, and my vow is registered in heaven. I pray that I may not drink such a bitter cup to its last drop, and that God may cause a disclosure of the secret that hinders our happiness But should that be lost, with my beloved friend, I must be resigned to my fate, submitting to it as the will of God, and seek consolation in religion. I may find peace to my soul there. You, dear Charles, have the world before you, and live amidst its ex- citements; you can find attraction in its commotion; and it is your duty to society, perhaps, to be interested and to employ your fine talents in its great and exciting affairs. My resource, as well as my duty, lies in the service of God. I shall go to the convent and live among the holy women there to find comfort for my afflicted soul. I will not e- clude myself absolutely from the world, however. while any hope may remain of the difficulty being removed that prevents our union. I shall live on the borders of the earthly and spiritual worlds, to come back to you or to ex- clude myself forever from all worldly things, as Divine Providence may order. While there, my prayers will be offered continually for your welfare and a happy termina- tion of our troubles; and should it be our sad fate to see each other here no more, we shall meet in heaven." Mosely was distressed to hear her determination, and endeavored to dissuade her from it. His efforts, however, were unsuccessful; her fixed resolution could not be sha- ken. He would have been more contented if she had re- c^ ^ nn^S^^^^^   The Diamond C-oss.       2 5 solved to remain at home, where he could see and com- municate with her freely, and where he might have some hope of removing in time her objections to marry while the secret of her birth remained undisclosed. But going to the convent, if even she should not take the veil of worldly oblivion, seemed like perpetual separation. It was the climax of his grief and fears. He had but one consola- tion left, and that was in,her promise not to exclude her- self from the world entirely, and forever, so long as they might consider there was any hope left of discovering her parentage. From the hour he received this assurance, he determined never to rest, and to search the earth over, if necessary, to make the discovery. He had no clue to the mystery, it is true; nor did he know where to commence his researches. Still, as all his happiness depended on the result of his efforts, his mind sprang into action and cogi- tated over a thousand ways and plans for obtaining the much desired information. The mind, wheni stimnlated by powerful motives-when driven, -so to speak, to the last extremity, and bordering on despair-is capable of almost superhuman efforts. In some such cases it seems to be inspired with the power of divination, and able to penetrate secrets of the past and future. Mosely felt something like this when he heard Laura's resolve and learned the only condition on which their happiness could be attained. From a state of doubt and gloomy fear he was aroused to make conjectures, to think of possible accidents that might arise to favor his in- vestigations, and to imaginary revelations. He communi- cated to Laura what was passing in his mind, and endeav- ored to awaken hope in her. She did not discourage these hopeful impressions, though she was more incredulous than he as to the success of his purpose. Whatever tended to alleviate his sorrow and lessen his disappointment was gratifying to her. She t   226       Atfe Diamond Cross. assured him that her earnest wish and prayers would be always for a successful termination of his efforts. Mosely lingered in Maryland longer than he had intended to stay, for he was loath to leave Laura. Dreary as the country was and sad as were all hearts at Mr. Howard's house, it was a dear spot to him. Then to leave her he loved so well, with a doubt whether he should ever see her again, was hard indeed. But the time came when they had to separate. To part, not as they parted before at the same place, when the bright skies harmonized with their feelings and the birds carolled songs of hope, but with gloom around them and a dark future before them. It was a trying moment even for Mosely's firm soul, but to Laura it was the saddest of her life. Farewell was a solemn word and pregnant with despair to her mind. She believed it meant forever. Yet it had to be uttered. She remained by his side to the last moment, dreading separation. She walked with a slow and sad step, tremulously, leaning on his arm, to the carriage that was waiting for him. Then, as he pressed her to his bosom, and as she heard him say the parting words, "Adieu, God bless you, my beloved Laura," her heart swelled as if it would break, and she breathed rather than uttered the last painful word, farewell.   rihe Diamnond Cross.   1   27 CHAPTER    XXII. AS the magnetic needle inclines to one point only, and guides the mariner through storm and darkness, so Mosely's thoughts were direted to Laura amidst the disappointments and troubles be encountered. His mind was disposed to despair when he first learned that she had resolved to go to the convent. He thought his anticipa- tions of a happy future would be buried forever within its gloomy walls.- He knew the influence of religion upon a mind so spiritual and afflicted as hers, and he feared she might be induced to abjure the world, and thus cut off all his hopes before the mystery of her birth could be unravel- led. After the first shock of her declared purpose was over, however, and he reflected upon her promise not to take that last step which would separate them forever, while any hope remained he became less despairing. As he journeyed along from Mr. Howard's house to Baltimore, revolving in his mind the chances of success in discover- ing the secret of Laura's parentage, the ardor of his love stimulated his resolution, and revived, in a measure, anti- cipations of happiness to come.' W' What is the world to me without her?" he said to him- self, while cogitating on-the events mentioned and the uncertain future. "I have sounded its depths and shoals during my short voyage of life, and I find true happiness only in my love for her. In calms and in storms, in sun- shine and gloom, and in joy and sorrow, I have continued rmy way, seeking that heaven my soul longed for; and when I thought I had found it, and was about to anchor in peace, the envious winds drove me out on a sea of tro ble again. The prospect is dreary; yet all is not lost.   There is some hope left; and I, like a brave mariner, must brace up my soul for the work before me. The busy world began to have few attractions for me; but when I realized the power of love my ambition was roused, the latent qualities of my mind sprang into action, and I felt I had something to live for. Yes, she is the centre round which all my thoughts and purposes revolve, and without her my existence would be a blank." "Oh! I dread those cloistered walls in which my soul's treasure will be immured! The entrance to them seems to me like the portals of death ; and the thought of Laura going there chills my heart almost as much as would the sight of her grave. True, she said that for my sake she would not renounce the world while any hope of our union might remain, and I know she is faithful; but I may never be able to discover the secret which lies in the way of our happiness. If I ever should succeed, it may be after many years of investigation, and after she may have given up all hope and taken the veil. Indeed, it is probable the mystery may never be disclosed but by some fortunate accident. Will she wait so long and in such uncertainty? Will not despair, with the influence of her religious asso- ciations, determine her fate before my efforts cease or hopes fail? Devotion has its fascinations as well as its tasks ; and a soul of great sensibility, like hers, when imbued with religious feeling, becomes exalted from earth to heaven ; finds the highest pleasure in the services of religion and contemplation of the future, and would feel as great a reludance to re-enter the world as another would to be imprisoned in the walls of a convent. Alas! her resolu,. tion to go there was a sad one to me. God grant that she may hold me   as fondly in her memory as ever, and that the day may be near when she will be restored to me. "And now the duty of discovering Laura's parentage devolves solely on me. What an incentive I have to make the effort. She, herself, will be my reward--a gift beyond   The Diamond Cross.      229 all price. If I fail, there will be no longer any happiness for me ; the sun of my joy will set to rise no more. Mr. and Mrs. Howard can do little or nothing to explain the mystery, on account of their retired situation, and having no clue to it ; Laura will be excluded from communication with the world ; and Mr. O'Donnell, who only appeared to know it, is dead.. Its solution rests with me. If it be within the power of a mortal, I will solve the mystery. My soul is aroused, and I feel something like a divine energy of purpose which would tear the secret from the grave or fetch it from the depths of ocean. I will go to the utter- most parts of the earth, if necessary, and interrogate every man and woman, to discover it. I will pray to that Divine Providence from whom no secret is hidden, and who is the fountain of justice, to crown my efforts with success." Mosely thought of many plans to attain his object. But he could not determine upon one, because he had no data or fadts to commence with. He cogitated on every possible source of information without perceiving value in any. Still, he could not be deterred from his purpose by such a vague and discouraging prospedt, and he resolved on beginning his search somewhere. He had learned from the disclosure Mr. and Mrs. How- ard made to Laura, that she had been adopted by them, when an infant, at the request of Mr. O'Donnell. He knew that the farm they lived on had been purchased by that gentleman, and presented to them, as a life estate, with Laura as the heir. He was aware that -all this was done from feeling a deep interest in the child. Besides, the care Mr. O'Donnell manifested in her education afterward, as well. as his constant kindness and affe5tion, showed he was influenced by some other motive than that of charity only. Indeed, it was evident to Mosely's mind that he had been something more 'than a mere friend, and held a nearer-relation to her than that. Yet she was unacquainted with any of the O'Donnell family; and none of them, except   ZLv      zJ le /ziamona cross. Mr. O'Donnell, appeared to know there was such a person in existence. Could it be possible she was his daughter? If so, why should the fact have been kept a secret? Mr. O'Donnell had said she was the legitimate offspring of respedtable parents; and, therefore, there did not appear to be any reason why he should not- have acknowledged her had he been her parent. No, that supposition was not admissible. But why did he treat her as tenderly and kindly as if she had been his child? Who could be her father? Thus Mosely reasoned, as he endeavored to evolve some thought or fadS to guide him in his investigations. He concluded finally that his first step should be to inquire of the different members of the O'Donnell family, particularly of the near relations of Mr. O'Donnell, if they knew any- thing about Laura. Most of this family resided in Maryland, and as he was in that State he commenced his inquiries immediately. He saw it was a matter requiring delicacy and caution in handling, as Mr. O'Donnell's relations might know the secret, and have the same motives for concealing it that gentleman had, and because he felt it necessary to pay proper respect to the grief of the family for their recent painful loss. He introduced himself, accordingly, as the friend of the deceased, and as being interested in certain matters which had taken him to Europe. He found that none of them knew Laura, or anything of her history. Nor did they know that Mr. O'Donnell had any particular object in going to Europe. But as soon as Laura was mentioned they appeared to be greatly inte- rested, and evinced much curiosity about her. They had just discovered that Mr. O'Donnell had bequeathed a large legacy to her in his will; and among his effects, pa- pers showing the purchase of the Howard farm, the gift of a life estate in it to Mr. and Mrs. Howard, and Laura's succession to it, besides numbers of letters from Laura to   [     T2he Diamond Cross.      231 him, dating from the time she first began to write till his departure from Europe-all proving the affection he had for her, and the deep interest he felt in her welfare. They had -been aware of his frequent and long visits to the mountain region of Maryland, and had supposed he pos- sessed property there; but were not surprised at these vis- its, as they knew his love of retirement and fondness for -the country; particularly where, as in that part, he could enjoy field sports. But the opening of his will and exam- ination of his private papers showed the real motive that took him so frequently to the mountains. The O'Donnell family was a proud one, and held a high social position. They had all the sensibility and pride of their Spanish-Irish ancestors. They were easily impressed, therefore, with the development of anything'remarkable in the history of one of their members; and the singular conduct of Mr. O'Donnell awakened the liveliest interest. The reserve they manifested when Mosely first approached them soon gave way; and they appeared to be as inquisi- tive about Laura as he was anxious to know,her parentage. The mother of Mr. O'Donnell, a noble-looking old lady, whose face beamed with benevolence and intelligence, was particularly so : and she questioned Mos'ely very closely about her son's protege. "Have you formed any idea as to who this young lady's parents were, sir?" she inquired. "That, Madam, is the difficulty I labor under," he re- plied. "If I had the least clue, or could reasonably con- jecture, I might push my investigations with more hope of success. I came to inquire of Mr. O'Donnell's relatives first, thinking it possible they might throw some light upon the question. If I should be disappointed in this, I shall proceed still in the work I have undertaken, though I am in doubt at present as to what steps I should take." "And cannot she or her reputed father and mother find some trace of her birth?"Mrs. O'Donnell continued.   None whatever," Mosely answered. "The only relic she has of her mother, or connecting link with her birth, is a diamond cross. She but lately learned from Mr. and Mrs. Howard, who had been informed by Mr. O'Donnell, that this had belonged to her mother." "And you believe my lamented son knew who her parents were?" she added. "I think there can be no doubt of that," he said ; " for Mr. O'Donnell took her when an infant to Mrs. Howard and provided liberally for her support and education. Then he must have had some powerful motive beyond that of benevolence merely in requiring Mr. and Mrs. Howard to adopt her as their child and to keep the fact of her adop- tion an inviolable secret. Even she was not to know they were not her mother and father."  "It is very strange!" she remarked. "I cannot compre- hend it in the least. I perceive by her letters, which we found among my son's papers, that she is quite accom- plished.  Do you know where she was educated?" "At the Georgetown Convent Seminary," was the answer, "and she is an honor to the institution and her preceptors. But Mr. O'Donnell improved her education 'greatly, ater she left school, by every, means in his power. He was with her a great deal, and his conversations and intimacy with her contributed to her education. He provided a choice library for her, and directed her in a course of read- ing that cultivated her taste and enlarged her views." "How   strange!" she observed again. "We knew nothing of this. It looks like a remarkable whim or eccen . tricity; yet my son was not given to such whims. Upon refleXtion, I must think with you, sir, that he was influenced by some other feeling than that of charity for an unknown orphan, or of caprice. You have awakened my curiosity, and I  feel much interested in the young lady. I should be pleased to see her. I presume it would not be asking too much of her to see the mother of her friend."   "She would feel gratified, I have no doubt," Ilosely responded, ' to know your desire, and would gladly accede to it, notwithstanding she is overwhelmed with grief, were an interview prafticable ; but she was preparing to go to the convent some days ago, and I suppose she is there already." " To the convent ? To become an inmate ?" she said, with surprise. " Is she very pious ?" "Yes, Madam, to become an inmate," he continued, " though she has promised not to abjure the world entirely, while hope of discovering the secret of her birth might remain. She is a lady of great sensibility, and the fad5 lately communicated that she is a nameless orphan is a terrible shock to her delicate feelings. The loss of her dearest friend and benefafctor, together with the secret of her parentage, which he alone appeared to possess, makes her inconsolable. She is naturally pious, if I may so speak, and attends strictly to her religious duties; but she is not bigoted, fanatical or a spiritual enthusiast. She enters the convent because she thinks her happiness in the world is destroyed, and to assuage her sorrow in the consolations of religion." '" Poor child !' the kind old lady sympathetically re- marked. "I hope you will succeed in discovering who her parents were, and restore her peace of mind. I feel it is my duty to see her, and shall take the earliest opportu- nity of going to the convent for that purpose. I am acquainted with the Lady Superior and several of the sisters there, and suppose I shall not have any difficulty in seeing her." " And, you say, sir, that you think my son's unfortunate voyage to Europe had some reference to her and to an estate in Louisiana which appears to be involved. in the mystery ?" " I do not doubt it, Madam," Mosely answered, for all Mr. O'Donnell's proceedings concerning that estate, as    well as his journey to Louisiana and voyage to Europe, were first induced by some remarks I accidentally made in conversation one day at Mr. Howard's house. And then he informed me that there was a secret respecting Laura, which he would not divulge at the time, but which he hoped to be able to disclose on his return to America  I have been impressed ever since that there is a connection between Laura's parentage and this property." "May I ask," she said, " what was the. nature of the in- formation you communicated to my son to cause these movements?" "It is a very proper question," he responded, " and 'I will answer it, with pleasure." "While at Mr, Howard's residence, shortly after I became acquainted with Laura and Mr. O'Donnell, I was relating to them some facts, simply on account of their romantic character , relative to the inheritance of the estate mentioned." "On my voyage home, across the Atlantic, I became acquainted with a French gentleman, Mr. Lanabere, who was coming to take possession of that property, it having been left him by his lately deceased uncle. The sudden and unexpefted fortune, worth Over half a million of dollars, coming to a poor young Paris journalist, with other re- markable circumstances conneCted with the bequest, excited curiosity, and to gratify this I merely told, in my conver- sation, what I  had learned from Mr. Lanabere. The narrative greatly affected Mr. O'Donnell, much to the surprise of all present. The next morning he questioned me more particularly, about Mr Lanabere's deceased uncle, saying that I  had unconsciously revealed something of importance to himself and his family. He begged to be excused for not informing me what this was, requested me not to tell any one; no, not even Laura, the cause of his emotion, or of the questions he asked, and promised to reveal to me some day his motive for so acting. He left =S:^^^^^^   the next-day apologizing for leaving so suddenly, saying that urgent business called him away. He went to Louis- iana, and to Mr. Lanabere's estate there, as I subsequently learned. When he returned I saw him again in New York. I introduced him to Mr. Lanabere, at his own re-, quest; and he obtained from that gentleman letters of! introduction to the Lanabere family in France. He con-i tinued to enjoin secrecy as to his movements, and a few days after he arrived in New York he sailed for Europe. "Mr. Lanabere told me lately, with surprise, that Mr. O'Donnell had been to the south of France among his relatives, and had carefully taken evidence of everything, relative to his late uncle, with a view, as he understood, of contesting his right to the property. We were all anxiously awaiting the return of Mr. O'Donnell to clear up this com- plicated mystery,Laura having been informed of the vessel he would sail in, and the time of its sailing, when all our hopes were cut off by the sad and untimely loss of your son." " Alas! sir, it was a sad loss to all, but to me especially," she observed, weeping. " You have seen what an excellent friend he could be; but I alone know what a dear and noble son he was. Then, such a death ! To think of it is heartrending." " But your story inter ts me more and more. I cannot imagine how he, or any of the family, could be concerned in the estate you speak of, or in the history of the uncle of this Mr. Lanabere, yet it appears my son believed we were. What was-the name of this deceased gentleman ?" "Bouverie, Madam," Mosely replied. a Bouverie, Bouverie," she repeated, as if endeavoring to awaken her memory. " I do not know that name. I have no recollection of such a person." " I believe it was an -assumed name, though borne by that gentleman for twenty years, and though he was known by no other in Louisiana," he continued. His former and right name was Mercier.    --- -- wow vtw, O "/ (/OJ . "Ah!" she exclaimed with astonishment." Mercier! Did you say Mercier? Yes, I know. that name; though it is a long time since I heard it uttered. I never wanted to hear it again. Good Heavens! Can it be possible?" She seemed abstracted and unconscious of the presence of Mosely for some moments, and muttered to herself "Can this be the same person? And she--can she be alive? Is this the secret my dear boy possessed-the mys- tery he would have unravelled?" Mosely noticed her surprise, heard these words, and saw that some deep emotion disturbed her soul. "It is another link in the chain of this entangled mat- ter,'" he thought, and began to hope it would enable him to make further discoveries, when she broke the silence and said :- "Pardon me, sir, for this interruption and my abstrac- tion. A. painful circumstance, that had long slept in my memory, was brought to my recollection, and I forgot, for a moment, your presence." "Do you know if this Mr. Bouverie or Mercier was ever married?" "It is said he never was," Mosely answered, " and his friends always thought he had met with some grievous disappointment at the time he expected to marry, and had prepared for that event. They suppose so, because he announced to them his approaching marriage, and then, several years afterwards, wrote again to say he never should marry; at which time, too, he had changed his name and his residence from New York to Louisiana. Be- sides, he had a portrait of a lady which he highly valued, and which, it was understood, was the likeness of the lady lie should have wedded." "Where is that portrait?" asked Mrs. O'Donnell. "fAt the plantation residence, in Louisiana, I believe," was the reply. "Mr. O'Donnell asked me  particularly about that when I first spoke of Mr. Bouverie, and I think   Tlze Diamond Cross.      23 7 he saw it when he was at the plantation. Those most intimate with Mr. Bouverie, as the daughter of his superin- tendent, saw from his condudt that the cloud which hung over his mind was identified with the original of the por- trait." "Twenty-one years since Mr. Bouverie settled in Louis- iana, I think you said," she observed. "I believe this was a person whose memory is painful to us, but of whose fate or history during the period you mention of his residence in the South we were ignorant. If it be the same I can understand why my lamented son took so much interest in the disclosures you made, and in making such investiga- tions." "You remarked, when we commenced this conversation, that Laura had a little relic, a diamond cross, which belong- ed to her own mother, and that it was the only connefting link the poor child had with her parent. I should be pleased to see that relic. Does she wear it? It is to be hoped that this sacred emblem of our religion and salvation, which she holds as a precious souvenir of her mother, may be the means of leading to a discovery that will restore her earthly happiness." "I suppose she has taken or will take it with her," he said; " for it is a much cherished memorial. She remem- bers having been told at a very early age, that this was a family relic, but did not know till lately, when she learned Mrs. Howard was not her mother, to whom it had belonged." "How many years is it since Laura, as an infant, was adopted by Mrs.. Howard?" she asked. "Near twenty-one," he replied. She paused for a few moments, and said. in an under tone, as if talking to herself, "that would be hpr age if living. But can it be possible?" Then addressing Mosely, she observed, "I think I see, though dimly, through the light you have afforded, a remark- able occurrence of events that deeply concerns me, and   238      The Diamond Cross. that may lead, possibly, to further revelations regarding Laura. I am much gratified in having had this conver- sation ; and I assure you it has made me the warm friend of the young lady. I consider it is my duty to care for and protesl her, and to take the place of my son, as far as I am able, not only from sympathy with her, but out of regard to his memory, and his affection for her. "And now, sir, in conclusion, let me ask the favor- of you to renew your visit, and to give me an opportunity of communicating with you, should it be necessary, relative to Laura, and the work of unravelling the mystery, in which she is enveloped." Mosely took leave of Mrs. O'Donnell, well satisfied with his interview, and more hopeful than he was previously. Although his vision of the future was still obscured, and he could not see his way clear to the point of discovering Laura's parentage, the conversation just closed threw a little light upon the darkness. He thought Mrs. O'Donnell knew more than she had communicated, and kept that knowledge to herself, till further developments should be made. It was evident she imagined she had a clue to the secret, though she did not inform him what that was. He was desirous of knowing the reason for such a thought, and felt somewhat dissap- pointed that she had not been more explicit; still, he was- contented in the belief that he had made some progress towards the obje6l he had at heart. He had supposed, at times, that Mr. O'Donnell might have had a closer connedtion with Laura, than that of a friend; that, in fact, she was a blood relation. The con- duct of that gentleman had indicated as much, though it was difficult to reconcile such a fact, with the secrecy he ob- served as to her birth. When Mrs. -O'Donnell exhibited so much surprise and emotion at what he told her, and such interest in Laura, he felt assured there was no relationship between them. Then there seemed to be some motive for   2The Diamond Cross.      239 reticence in the mother, as well as in the son, with regard to Laura, which showed how greatly they were concerned. Refle&ing upon these circumstances, he was more deter- mined than ever to follow up his researches, lest the O'Donnell family, after having satisfied themselves about Laura, might be influenced by the same motive to secrecy Mr. O'Donnell was, and continue to conceal the fadts re- garding her birth and parentage. t   onl o     She Diamond Cross, CHAPTER    XXIII. MOSELY having no doubt that Mr. O'Donnell had acquired important information relative to the Bouverie estate when in Louisiana and France, and that Laura was somehow concerned in that, he thought if he could obtain the same it might aid in making the discovery he desired. Refledting, too, upon the curiosity which both Mr. and Mrs. O'Donnell manifested about the portrait of the lady whom it was said Mr. Bouverie once loved, which portrait was at the plantation residence, he considered that might be an objeft of value in his inquiries. Under these impressions he deliberated on the propriety or utility of going over the ground Mr. O'Donnell had gone over in Louisiana. There were two things he regarded as having a bearing on the secret of Laura's birth and Mr. O'Donnell's mysteri- ous conduct--the diamond cross mentioned heretofore, and the portrait just alluded to. He desired to see the por- trait, though he could not conjecture how the sight of it would aid him in his object. The vague idea that some- thing might result from seeing this interesting object, was rather stimulated by his hope and anxiety than by reason. For if he should see it, what more would he know, or what would he decide? It was not at all probable that he ever saw the original or could imagine who she was. Still, he was persuaded it was identified with the problem he wished to solve. But, if he should not be able to trace the connecion between these relics and Laura's parentage, might not others? Might not Mrs. O'Donnell? That lady had in- li   Thie Diamoznd Cross.      24I quired particularly about them; and it was evident from iher questions, surprised manner, and the remarks she made, that some idea flashed into her mind which induced her to believe she might find the connection. Here, really, was ground for hope. Yet, how could Mrs. O'Donnell see the portrait? The diamond cross she would see, as she had determined to visit Laura at the convent; but it was not likely she would go to Louisiana to look at the portrait. Then, if she should make the discovery would she reveal it to him or Laura? Might she not have a condition prece- dent, as her son had, to making the revelation? Some weighty family consideration might make her as reticent as he had been, and thus render the efforts fruitless. Still, to follow up his investigations regarding these objects was the best course; and perhaps the only one to pursue. Mosely deemed it desirable, therefore, to- get possession of the portrait, temporarily at least, in order to ascertain if Mrs. O'Donnell, or others, would discover who the original was, and what conneffion it had, if any, with Laura. But how could he obtain it? Could he ask Mr. Lanabere for that which might prove to be evidence in dispossessing him of,ihis estate? That this might be so, was apparent from Mr. O'Donnell having considered it of interest, when colle6fing testimony about the property. This was a delicate matter; but Mosely had no other means of obtaining the portrait. The objeA5t he had in view was too important, and his heart was too earnestly engaged in it, for him to be deterred by such an obstacle. He decided to make fhe request of Mr. Lanabere, and to inform that gentleman frankly of his motive for doing so. He proceeded to Washington accordingly for this pur- pose, Mr. Lanabere being still in that city. The first subjec he introduced, as soon as he met Lan- abere, was that of the portrait for it was the predominant thought in his mind. "I have a favor to solicit of you sir," he said,*" which is   242       he Diamond Cross. of a delicate nature, and which I would not ask under ordinary circumstances. But I trust to your good sense to excuse me, and to your friendship for a favorable response. It is, that you will permit me to have for a -short time the portrait your uncle prized so much, and which you thought was that of a lady he had loved. This may seem a singular request, but when I explain the reason for making it, I hope you will appreciate my motive. You remember, probably, Mr. O'Donnell evinced some anxiety about it. You thought, possibly, as well as I, that it had a connection with that gentleman's mysterious move- ments. From a conversation 1 had recently with the mother of Mr. O'Donnell, I am persuaded it had. More than that, I have no doubt it is connected with a secret on the solution of which my own happiness depends." "Indeed!"Lanabere said, with surprise. "Then you shall have the portrait, or anything else I possess that may serve your purpose. But you astonish me! I did not -suppose you had- any personal interest in Mr. O'Donnell's proceedings. Mystery is added to mystery. I seem to be living in an enchanted atmosphere in this country!" "I thank you for your generous interruption to grant so promptly the favor I asked," continued Mosely. "I shall not forget your kindness, and I hope your interests may not be damaged should the secret I am endeavoring to disclose be brought to light. If I can avoid injuring you, rest assured I will. But it is proper I should explain my posi- tion in regard to this matter and the motives that influence me to act as I do. I will proceed, therefore, with the remarks I was making. "I said I had become an interested party, or that I be- lieved my happiness was involved, in unravelling the mys- tery with which the portrait appears to be associated. I have been brought into this position by purely accidental circumstances. When I became acquainted with you and learned how you acquired possession of your uncle's estate,   Tle Diamond Cross.      253 with other particulars relating to Mr. Bouverie's history, I had not the remotest idea of ever being personally con- cerned in these matters. "A short time before you arrived at Niagara last fall, I met there a young lady, in company with -her reputed father and mother and Mr. O'Donnell, who has become the dearest object on earth to me, and who is to be my wife if ever I marry. The only obstacle in the way of our mar- riage is the secret I am laboring to disclose. "She learned lately that those whose name she bore, and who had brought her up tenderly from infancy as their own child, were not her parents. None of them know whose offspring she was. These people received her when she was a few months old at the request of Mr. O'Donnell, who provided liberally for her and them, and who ever afterward, up to the time of his death, took as much interest in her as if she had been his daughter. They accepted the child with the positive condition, imposed by Mr. O'Donnell, that they were to adopt it as their own, and never to let any one know they were not its parents. They kept their word religiously; and it was only through XL occurrences, over which they had no control, the fact appeared. "Mr. O'Donnell knew, undoubtedly, the child's parent- age; but what his motive was ;for this secrecy does not appear. Had he been spared to reach home, we might have obtained the information we are anxiously seeking. For he would hardly have withheld that after knowing a part of the secret had been disclosed. But he perished at sea, and the knowledge or evidence we seek may be lost with him. I am satisfied, however, that his strange proceedings relative to your late uncle's estate, and this mystery about the parentage of Laura, who was the child spoken of, are connected, though I cannot 'divine in what manner. I have felt more assured of this since my conversation yes-   244       The Diamond Cross. terday with the mother of Mr. O'Donnell. This lady knew your uncle, and when I mentioned his name she exhibited some surprise and emotion. She desires to see the portrait, supposing, as I imagine, she can identify it or know whom it represents. Such are the circumstances under which I have been led to take the place of Mr. O'Donnell, in some respects, in pursuing the investigations he commenced, and which induced me to ask the favor you have kindly granted." ' What a strange- concatenation of events!"Lanabere exclaimed, " and all pointing to one object-to disposses me of the estate of my late uncle. Well, let justice be done, if any one has a better claim than I to it. I have learned to suffer the mockery of fate, and I am prepared to endure this, if it must come. Like Tantalus, I found placed before my vision objects of delight, without being able to enjoy them. Even when I seized and tasted, for a moment, the tempting fruit, it turned to ashes in my mouth. I fear my recently acquired fortune will be short-lived. Still, it will be some consolation if you, who are so worthy, and whom I esteem so highly, should be benefited by my misfortune." "I do not blame you, and I am convinced you will not do anything willingly tending to injure me. I am satisfied, from the explanation given, that the position you occupy is an honorable one, and that it has been forced upon you by a concurrence of circumstances you neither sought nor desired." "And you, too, my friend, have felt the magic influence of love! You have realized its power. What is so potent for good or ill--for happiness or misery? Who can resist it? It is the motive power of the conduct of all men ; it sub- dues the strongest, and inspires the weakest with strength; monarchs are its subjects, and it has. controlled the destiny of nations. Alas, what anguish, too, it can bring to the heart! But I hope you may always experience its joys "   The Diamond Cross.      245 "With regard to the .portrait, I will write to my superin- tendent to forward it, if that be agreeable to your wish. Or, if you prefer going to Louisiana, it will afford me pleasure either to accompany you or give you every facility in my power for accomplishing your object." Mosely preferred going to Louisiana, and gladly accepted Lanabere's offer to go with him. -He did not know that he would accomplish more by taking the journey than by having the portrait sent; but, as he was not disposed to leave anything undone which might possibly throw light upon the matter he had taken up, he resolved to explore the whole field before him. A man so much in earnest does not neglect the least opportunity or the merest chance; he hangs his hope upon bare possibilities and waits upon accidents. Mr. O'Don- nell went to Louisiana in search of evidence, and had not he, Mosely, as much reason and as, urgent a motive to fol- low the same course? He might learn something at the plantation or from persons who had been acquainted with the late Mr. Bouverie to guide him in his labor of love. Then he was not inclined to leave the development of the secret, in which his own happiness and ,aura's was in- volved, to Mrs. O'Donnell or any of her family, who might have some object in concealing the truth firon others. He remembered that Mr. O'Donnell certainly had, up to the time of his departure for; Europe. Such were the reflec- tions that led Mosely to determine on going to Louisiana, He took Louis, Lanabere's colored servant formerly, with him, thinking this shrewd man, who knew almost ev- ery one he met, and the history of nearly everybody, might be useful to him; especially as he had been at thie planta- tion, and had learned a good deal about Mr. Bouverie and the property. After Louis left the service of Mr. Lana- bere, he became Mosely's servant. So devoted was this faithful fellow to, his master, whom he had known for many years, that he was delighted when engaged to accompany    him to Louisiana. Mosely and Lanabere took the South- ern seaboard route, as it was called, to New Orleans; that is, by the way of Richmond, Wilmington and Augusta it being shorter than any other * .   , 72e Diamolnd Cr ss.     247 CHAPTER    XXIV. SPRING was beginning to open when Mosely and Lanabere left Washington for New Orleans. The session of Congress had jexpired; and most of the mem- bers, 'with their familes, as well as the crowd who were in the habit of visiting the city during the Congressional term, had left. The capital, as usual at such periods, had become quiet and uninteresting to strangers, like a country village. The only thing that made the place enjoyable to a non-resident at such seasons, if he were acquainted with the best of families, was the agreeable society there. Mosely's mind was so absorbed in the obje 61 he had in view, -however, that he did not seek that enjoyment. Lan- abere, at the same time, desired a change of scene and the excitement of travel. They started early in the morning on board the steam- boat which connects with the railroad at Aquia Creek, about forty miles down the Potomac. The sun rose in a cloudless sky, and every object stood out in bold relief through a transparent atmosphere. The air was exhilira- ting without being cool, and everything contributed to inspire in the mind agreeable thoughts. None but those who have witnessed and felt it can realize how charming such a morning in early spring is in that part of the coun- try. The most gloomy and despairing are cheered, and those who have become disgusted with the world are forced to confess it is beautiful. Both Mosely and Lanabere felt the inspiration. The hopes of the forinerwere stimulated, and the latter forgot, for the time, his troubles. As they were steaming down the placid and noble river,   24s3      The Diamnond Cross. Lanabere looked back upon the city they were leaving, and remarked, "Your federal capital is, like your country, a new creation, and in its infancy; but one does not resemble the other in development and proportions ; the former is a dwarf, and the latter a giant. Why was not one of the larger cities already established, such as Philadelphia, New York, or Baltimore, chosen as the seat of government, instead of an uninhabited spot? I see, too, the founders of it followed the ancient, rather than the people of modern times, in selecting a site at the head of navigation. In the present age, great cities-are founded and grow up as near -the outlet of navigable streams to the ocean as practicable. W. as it believed that Washington would become a place of commercial importance? Or was a secluded spot, away from the track of commerce, deemed preferable?" "The government was influenced by several considera- tions in determining to locate the federal capital where it is," Mosely replied. "The chief one was as to geographi- cal position relative to the several States of the Union. It was considered at the time a central situation, and as equally convenient to the North and South. Had the statesmen of that period foreseen the extraordinary and rapid growth of the West, they might not have established permanently the capital so far East. Virginia, perhaps, which then exercised the greatest influence in all public matters, wished to have it on her border. Then it was deemed important that it should not be within any of the States or subject to their laws ; and no one of them would have been willing, probably, to have given up its chief city for this purpose. Virginia and Maryland ceded the terri- tory to the federal government to form the District of Columbia, where the capital is located, so that this terri- tory really is not within the limits of any State. "- Some thought Washington might grow up to be a place of commercial importance, for the Potomac was navigable for the largest vessels up to that point; and Alexandria,   -Th e Diamnond Cross.     249 eight miles below, had then a large trade. These people desired to have the capital rival, the first cities in popula- tion and wealth; but the more far-seeing statesmen thought, and wished it to be, otherwise. They believed that the farther the seat of government could be removed from the influence of populous communities, which are sometimes capricious and turbulent, the better and safer it would be. Large numbers of people massed together are too ready to regard their own interests as paramount, and to lose sight of the interests or rights of others. The undue influence of the people of any locality or section over a government like ours would be very unfortunate, and, perhaps, danger- ous. The government of the United States is purely repre- sentative; and not, as too many of the people, and particu- larly naturalized citizens, think, a popular one, like the cen- tralized republics of former times. The whole framework of the constitution shows it was not intended that the people were to be directly represented under the federal as under their State governments. In fact, the States are represented at Washington, and not the aggregated popular voice direftly. Even the election of the President, which is the most popular feature in the government, perhaps, is through a representative electoral college, voting by States. Hence you may perceive how caiereful the statesmen who made the constitution and placed the capital where it is, were to put every safeguard possible around the glorious institu- tions they established." While conversing thus, the attention of these gentlemen was called to another subject by the solemn tolling of the steamboat bell. They were near Mount Vernon. All vessels in passing this revered spot, where Washington had dwelt and where his remains repose, toll the solemn funeral knell in honor of his memory. It is the voice of a nation's love and gratitude, the spontaneous requiem of a great people to whom he gave freedom, the perpetual incense of By   fervent patriotism. This living memorial is more beauti- ful than sculptured marble and grander than the monument which is to overtop the pyramids. The plain and rather dilapidated plantation house, and the equally plain and unpretending tomb of the great and good man, the Father of his Country, as Americans grate- fully and properly delight in calling him, were in view on the banks of the river. The hallowed place, which the great men of other countries and thousands of pilgrims annually visit in reverence, had an appearance of neglect and partial desolation. The heart, which is inspired by the memory of the noble dead when so near his ashes, becomes chilled at the sight of his decaying resting place and the faded beauties of the home he loved. Lanabere saw Mount Vernon then for the first time, and his impressionable mind contemplated the scene with ab- sorbing interest. "Here lived and rests the noblest pa- triot known in history," he said. "A man not so brilliantly great as Caesar or Bonaparte, and not more patriotic and pure, perhaps, than Cincinnatus; but taking his whole char- acter, his achievements and the circumstances of his position into consideration, he stands first among the patriot heroes of ancient or modern times. The principles he contended for and successfully established are the new political gospel of nations. The liberty he proclaimed in his country has been spreading ever since over both the continents of America and Europe. The voice of the mighty apostle of freedom is heard in all the world, and the most despotic and oppressed nations have felt its power. Wherever the name of Washington is known (and where is it not known?) the idea of freedom is associated with it, acting as a charm to awaken desires and hopes of liberty. That name is an example and instructor to all coming generations, and it will be more and more honored and loved as time rolls on." "Yes, sir," Mosely remarked "our beloved Washington was all you say, and his name and example will have the   :mie ziawzona Gross.     251 happy influence you anticipate. We are proud of him as a son of our glorious old Virginia, and delight to call him a Virginian, but he really belongs to the world--a univer. sal mnan, if I may so speak. He holds the same relation to humanity-to all men and to all times--as Shakspeare. His deeds, looking at them simply in their direct action and separately, may not be so brilliant as those of some other great men, and may not strike the imagination so forcibly; but viewing them altogether, we perceive in him the highest ability as a general and a statesman. He was not a highly educated man, nor was he experienced in the field or in council previous to the Revolution; but his strong common sense, well balanced mind, firmness and virtue, made him equal to the exigencies of the time, and justly earned for him the fame of a great commander, legis- lator and ruler. All the civic virtues, love of freedom and strength of mind and character of the Anglo-Saxon race, from which he was descended, and of which he was such a distinguished tpye, were fully developed in him. No one was ever so worthy of the title posterity has given him- ' First in peace, first in war, and first in the hearts of his countrymen.' ' Although Washington was a republican in the broad general sense of that term, and took up arms to overthrow monarchical colonial rule, he was very, conservative in his views and policy. There was nothing of the Jacobin level- ler in him, and little of the democrat, either in the partisan sense of that term in America, or in the meaning given to it by Europeans. Indeed, remnants of English aristocratic ideas lung to him to, the last, notwithstanding his simpli- city of character and habits. He was, from the first, more in favor of a strong centralized government than Jefferson and his party of States' rights democrats were. But it is probable that the difficulties he encountered in prosecuting the war of independence, from the want of a central power over the several colonies, and the want of cohesion and   strength in the confederation afterwards, more than 'anti- democratic views, led him to desire a strong government. When he saw subsequently the atrocities, vagaries and despotic character of democracy in Europe, which sprung out of the French revolution, his ideas of order and con- servatism were shocked, and his original views of govern- ment were confirmed. I suppose Washington, who was a republican in America, would have been a liberal royalist in England, and in France would have been guillotined with the Girondists, for-his mind would have had no sym- pathy either with illiberal toryism or a savage democracy running into despotism and demagogueism." The steamboat soon passed Mount Vernon, and in about two hours- afterwards they reached Acquia Creek, where the passengers landed to take the railroad to Richmond. They were on the soil of Virginia, Mosely's native State -" the sacred soil of Virginia," as it is sometimes sneer- ingly called. It must be confessed that, while the citizens of the Old Dominion had reason to be proud of her, they sometimes made themselves vulnerable to such carcasm by their vanity and assumption; but this was a little fault in a people who had some great qualities, and whose his- tory was so glorious. It was said by the citizens of rival States, and by those who had not much good feeling towards Virginia, that her people had degenerated, and had lost the exalted charac- ter and superior ability of their ancestors. This degen- eracy was attributed chiefly to the institution of slavery; but the statement is not true in general. The controlling influence the State had exercised in the affairs of the coun- try, notwithstanding the more rapid growth of others in wealth and population, was sufficient to prove that this influence was nct derived from the prestige of past great- ness, but was found in the nature and education of the people. The heroic and striking qualities of men are not brought out during long periods of peace and prosperity,   ne tzanzonaU cross.      253 as in troublous times. The country had been increasing in wealth and luxury, beyond all precedent, for forty years, undisturbed by foreign wars or internal commotions, except the war with Mexico, some Indian wars, and now and-then some little political excitement, which were mere ripples on the surface. The people of Virginia, as well as those of other States, felt the intellectual lethargy such prosperity and quiet induce. But they held a foremost position all through the history of the country, and never failed to be equal to the necessity of the times. In the field and forum, in legislation and the science of government, and in all matters requiring the exercise of the highest mental qualities, they were a great people. Lanabere having understood that Richmond was the chief tobacco mart of the South, and the principal place of the inter-slave trade, he expressed a wish to remain a day in that city. But the only objedt that particularly attracted his attention there, except the beautiful cascades of the James river and the crowds of negroes, was a large auftion sale of slaves. He and Mosely were passing the auction- eer's stand, in one of the most public parts of the city, when the sale was going on. There were men, women and children of various shades of color, from the blackest pure African to the light quadroon, knocked down to the highest bidder, as any other articles of merchandise; and they were examined as closely by the rival bidders as a horse or a piece of cloth would have been. The settled melancholy and stolidity on the countenances of the negroes, in contrast with the witticisms of the auftioneer, the sharp ring of his voice, and the laughter of the bystanders, was a sad spec- tacle to all who were not accustomed and hardened to such scenes. Mosely turned away with a feeling of repugnance, and Lanabere was shocked. "How, my friend, can you defend the institution of slavery," Lanabere exclaimed, ' when such are its coinci- dent horrors?' Our fellow  creatures publicly sold like   cattle! It is too shocking! I wish I had not become the possessor of such property. This spectacle makes me feel like a criminal. I now realize the enormity of slavery and will do all I can to destroy it." Mosely checked Lanabere in his spontaneous declama- tion by warning him of the danger of such expressions within the hearing of the people there. "You are a stranger here," he said, "and if you should be heard using such language you might be roughly handled or arrested as an abolition emissary." "What, sir!"Lanabere rejoined indignantly, " am I in a free country-in free America, and cannot express my opin- ion?" "You may indulge what views you please," added Mosely, " but you can not proclaim them where they might be dangerous. Whatever you or others may think, the Southerners regard this kind of property as being entitled to proteEtion as much as any other; and they consider that no one has a right to meddle with what belongs to tlhem exclusively." "The auction sale of slaves, as we have just seen it, is naturally revolting to you; and I confess it is repugnant to me. A large portion of the Southern people, too, view it with disfavor. But it is an excrescence on the social and domestic body more unsightly, perhaps, than painful or injurious. Every condition of society has its evils; and there is no class or community exempt from exceptional cases of affliction, oppression or injustice. The factory laborer, the farm and house servants, the sailor, and all working people, are the slaves of necessity, and very often slaves to the caprices and tyranny of employers and over- seers. - The trade in slaves is very limited, looking at the great number of them; and a sale of them by auction is not seen in many places. Planters and farmers do not part with them except from pressing necessity, when they are very bad characters, or where it is desirable to unite   e7le Jlzamanad 6ross.    255 families under the same masters. By death, bankruptcy, or other causes, families of white people are sometimes scattered and made houseless and homeless, and the ne- gro has to suffer the consequences of similar accidents. But there is this in his favor - he is never under apprehen- sion, -or troubled about how he is to live; he knows he will be provided for, under all circumstances. "The truth is, sir, the whole matter is involved in the question-what is best, under all the circumstances of out situation, with regard to the institution? That is the whole philosophy of the question. To do what is best for both black and white, under the actual condition of things, is humanity, statesmanship, and religion. All the abstract theories of human rights and equality, that have been poured out like a flood upon the subject, amount to noth- ing before the great humane proposition-'what is best to be. done for both races?"   2 6        iThe .Diamond Cross. CHAPTER XXV. A few hours after leaving Richmond, Mosely and Lana- bere were beyond the limits of Virginia, and in North Carolina. There were few objects of interest to attract attention on the route through this State. It was a level country, and a sandy, poor soil, for the most part.. There were no large towns, and only now and then a scattering village or settlement. The immense pine forests, which yield considerable wealth, and are the source of the largest amount of foreign commerce with the State, were the most noticeable objects. The'people in a large portion of this lower country seemed to be employed chiefly in producing turpentine and rosin from the forests, and the number of stills, barrels, and other things conneEted with the produc- tion and trade in these articles, as well as the vast number of trees that were tapped, showed the extent and importance of the business. The active and inquiring mind explores everything that comes before it, as the bee searches each flower of the field for honey. Traveling  through North Carolina, naturally led Lanabere to inquire about the peculiarities of the State and its inhabitants. He remarked that he had noticed some difference in the manners and habits, and even in the appearance of the people of several States, though they were nearly all from the same stock originally. If local influences, he remarked, could produce such a change within the short period the States had been settled and when there were so many facilities for intercommuni- cation, what change might not ages make in a people, especially when separated by oceans or great distances, and when they dwelt in very different climates.   The Diamond Cross.       257 Mosely fell in with this train of thought, for he liked to reflect on and discuss such subjeds. He admitted the people of North Carolina were peculiar in some respects. They had the appearance of being dull and heavy; but under this there was a great deal of practical good' sense and shrewdness; making them resemble the Scotch in this respect more than they did any other Americans. They were slow, as the condition of the State compared with the other old States in material development and im- provement shows ; but when they were at work about any- thing they did not lack energy, and performed what they undertook in a thorough, substantial manner. 'Essentially conservative, they were opposed to innovation or change. They were tenacious, hardy and brave, and lived in a plain, economical manner. He said that while there was no State where republican equality was more preserved, not only before the law and in a political sense, but even in the bearing, manner and social relations of the citizens, no where in the United States was there a greater differgnce in the condition- of the rich and poor. The former were generally very well educated, and surrounded by all the comforts of life, but the latter were mostly uneducated, miserable in their dwel- lings and mode of life, and, on the whole, wretched-looking beings. Many ot the small land-owners, without slaves, belonged to this class, and nearly all the landless rural population; but not many of the mechanics and artizans in the towns and villages. Whenever a white man in the South sinks down through idleness, dissipation, or other causes, to a position where the respectable negro is his superior in conduct and appearance, he becomes very de- graded. The worst and most ignorant population of North Carolina was in and near the gold-bearing part of the State. The same might be said of Georgia and South Carolina. The precious metal attracted the adventurous and shift   258       The Diamond Cross. less, at the time when this was the only gold region known in the United States. Gold-hunting and washing rarely paid for the time and labor, while it was exciting and de- moralizing to those engaged in it. Consequently, the worst portion of society was left to inhabit those parts of the country which were the least adapted to agriculture, and where there was little to encourage habits of industry. In fact, white laborers generally in the South, except those employed in trades or other labor out of the field, were in a poor condition. Fortunately the number of this class was small, compared with the whole population, and they lived in secluded districts mostly, where the community at large was not-much troubled by them. The largest and most important town in North Carolina, and its principal port, was Wilmington, at the extreme southern border of the State, and on the Cape Fear river, which contained a population of not more than twenty thousand. Here these gentlemen left the "Old North State," as it is familiarly called, and commenced their journey through South Carolina. From the Cape Fear to a considerabletdistance in South Carolina the railroad passes through a most dreary country, as much as the famous Dismal Swamp in Virginia, which it resembles. Nothing was seen but a continuous succession of rivers and streams, and swamps formed by them, with a dense jungle of forest trees and underwood, festooned and matted with moss and vines, the home of alligators and other reptiles, where man or any domestic animal never ventured, and where the rays of the sun hardly ever pene- trated. These semi-tropical forest swamps were a new feature in American scenery to Lanabere, and he contemplated them with much interest. "What a gloomy place," he said; "the very trees look sad; they droop their heads, and their limbs are bowed down with the funereal weeds that hang pendant and mourn-   Tze Diamoznd Cross.      259 fully from them. They have noble forms, but the parasites that entwine and cling to them, bring them to an untimnely end, as many great and good men have been ruined by fawning flatterers. The crape-like moss which festoons their branches so gracefully, seems to mourn their depart- ing glory, and the numerous dead and rotting trunks that lie at their feet remind them of their fate. They might have been long-lived, and flourished in beauty, the admi- ration of all beholders, had they struck root on the prairie, or in some healthful valley ; or they might have been the pride of some mountain, but destiny placed them in this melancholy spot to die early and unseen. Thus it is with man. Many, who are endowed with genius, and who would become illustrious, if they had the opportunity, are doomed by inexorable circumstances to perish with their faculties undeveloped, and their names unknown. "Had thisgloomy region been known to the ancients, their imaginations would have peopled it with fearful mon- sters, vampires, gorgons, gnomes, dragons, fire-drakes and malignant demons. In latter times it would have been regarded as the abode of evil spirits-fiends which floated and revelled} in its noxious exhalations, and tormented with ague-pinches and fever--cramps any unwary traveller who might have come within its limits. Now, in these more rational and practical times, it may well be dreaded for the malarious diseases that it engenders and with which it infects the air. "But the new power of the world, scarcely less ethereal or more palpable than the fancied agencies of pagan deities or modern fiends-steam-hasdtone much in driving these imaginary powers from the earth. It is more potent in laying ghosts or evil spirits than priests with book and bell, than pater-nosters, ave Marias, holy water, deadly night- shade, or the most skilful magicians. None of the divinities that once exercised so much influence in the world can stand before the mighty engine, The swift locomotive, full   25o       Thze Diamond Cross. of life, and breathing fire and smoke as it courses along, chases the shades of darkness. Its scream, and large, fierce eye, flaming like the sun, frighten the old demons away as it flies down the valleys, up the mountains, and through the bowels of the earth. Nor does it heed the blighting or infectious atmosphere in its rapid motion, for it dissipates and leaves behind the foul vapors." While indulging in such refleftions and remarks, the iron monster sped on its way, and in due time emerged from this swampy region. They then passed through a dry rolling country, pretty well cultivated, but having a very rich soil, and mostly given up to the growth of cotton. This article was the staple production of the State, though a large amount of rice was raised on the low lands near the coast. In that section of the State, too, and along the coast of Georgia, where the soil and climate were similar, the beautiful Sea Island cotton was grown. This choice product could not be raised in any other -part of the South, and'apparently only near the sea. The houses, buildings, and small townships they passed, had a better appearance generally than those in North Carolina, and there seemed to be more wealth, refinement and comfort here than there. The plantations were mostly large, and were worked by numerous gangs of negroes. Few white people were seen, except at the stations and in the villages. There were few towns in the State, and the population was chiefly rural and much spread over the country. Charleston, however, was a large and important city ; and Columbia, the capital, where many rich planters resided, might be called beautiful. Lanabere remarked that he had observed in his reading and conversations, since he had been in America, that certain epithets, such as "the chivalry" and " fire-eaters,"- were frequently applied sneeringly or sarcastically to the Carolinians by the citizens of the Northern States, imply- ing that they were a fast and haughty people. He wished   Thle Diamond Cross.      26  to know if they had any peculiarity that distinguished them from others and justified such appellations. Mosely said in reply, "The South Carolinians are a proud people. The planters, who are the most influential people of the State, are generally well educated and well informed, have a graceful, easy and dignified bearing, and are sensitive and brave. No man would be considered worthy of being called a gentleman among them, or be tolerated as such if he should not promptly resent an insult, even at the risk of his life. At. home and among them- selves, there exists a republican simplicity and an equality, irrespective of the wealth of persons, that, to a superficial observer, appear in strange contrast with their pride. To strangers who may visit or accidentally see them at home, they are hospitable, polite, and frank. Perhaps no people in the world, except the best and oldest families of the English aristocracy, are more distinguished for quiet, un- assuming dignity and easy, courteous manners. They are not affe5ted or ostentatious in tneir address or habits, and they are high-spirited and very jealous of their character and rights. Their sensitiveness and promptness in maintain- ing and defending their privileges have procured for them the appellation of ' chivalry' or ' fire-eaters.' There is hardly a greater difference between a Frenchman and an English- man than between a genuine Eastern man and a South Caro-' linian ; consequently they have become antagonistic, and the two extremes in the sectional and political war that exists, the former being meddlesome and the latter defiant." "Conservative views and State pride have always made the people of South Carolina the most determined oppo- nents of opinions and measures tending to lessen the potwer and privileges of the several States and to increase those of the federal government. Still, the South Carolinians have always carried their State right notions to extremes, forgegetting the blessings they enjoy under the United States government."   - *^ a in tuzcnu G roSS. "But we are leaving South Carolina," Mosely observed, as they were crossing the Savannah river, which divides that State from Georgia, " and we turn our attention, with our face, further southward." "Georgia has all the appearance of a thrifty, improving State, and her people are sometimes called the Yankees of the South, on account of their enterprising character. There are more manufactories in this than in any other Southern State, and more handsome towns and villages, many of which have sprung up since railroads have been made, and some quite recently. "Augusta, which we are entering, is a large, handsome and important town. Then there is Savannah, the well known seaport; Milledgeville, the capital; Macon, Atlanta, Athens, and other thriving and wealthy places. "The State has a great variety of productions, and is capable of producing almost everything except the fruit and other things of inter-tropical growth. Rice, Sea Isl- and cotton and the palm flourish, andeven the orange will grow on the seaboard. Middle Georgia, which is a rol- ling country, produces the cereals and all the fruits of the temperate zone, as well as cotton; and nowhere do the peach and grape thrive better or yield more delicious fruit. In the upper and northern part of the State, which is moun- tainous, the harder plants, grain, and trees grow. The climate is almost tropical along the coast, where the warm, soft influence of the Gulf Stream is always felt; while the temperature of the mountain region is as cool and invigor- ating as that of the Northern States. The State is rich in minerals, particularly in the abundance and quality of its iron and in the extent of its gold-bearing region. No better iron is found in the United' States, and nowhere east of the Rocky-Mountains has gold been found so abundant or gold mining been as profitable." "Georgia ought to be the land of poetry. Such a beau- tiful country : bright skies, soft air, rich flora, redolent with   Thle Diamond Cross.      263 perfumes, and music of birds inspire the soul and give to the imagination visions of paradise. "I shall never forget the impression made on my mind- when, a few years ago, I was a visitor at a plantation re- sidence not far from where we now are. It was in spring time, when all nature was full of life, beauty and joy. Numbers of mocking birds and other delightful songsters, some of which had built their nests in trees and bushes near my window, aroused me every morning with the sweet- est sensations by their music. Birds love the early morn- ing. When the eastern sky is suffused with gorgeous hues and aurora is brilliantly decked to greet the rising sun, they pour forth all their melody in ecstacy of delight, and lead the universal chorus of nature to sing the praises of the Creator. Then I walked out to admire and inhale the perfume of the beautiful and glorious magnolia, which grows abundantly there; the delicious jasmine, which hung in garlands from the trees, and the sweet Cherokee rose, that stood in hedgerows by the lane side or round the fields, with numerous other flowers that beautified the scene and scented the air. Or I strolled in the garden, where art had aided nature, and a thousand flowers of va- rious forms and colors-among which was the queen of all, the rose--in great variety and of luxuriant proportions, gratified the eye -and intoxicated the senses. I have many times seen all these flowers grow elsewhere, but never saw them look so charming, and never did they appear to smell so sweet as under the enchanting sky ana in the balmy at- mosphdre of Georgia, especially when the morning air was filled with such ravaging strains. I regret we cannot stay to see more of this beautiful and progressive State than we shall see by a rapid ride through it on the cars. But I hope you will have an opportunity some time of being gratified as I have been. i"There are more Northerners settled in Georgia than in the Carolinas or Virginia, and they have infused a more   264       The Diamond Cross. enterprising spirit in the people. The State bids fair to be- come the first among the old States of the South. In political matters the Georgians are more compromising and latitu- dinarian than the South Carolinians or the Virginians, through they are equally tenacious on the subject of sla- very." After Mosely and Lanabere reached Auguasta, they took the railroad to Alabama, and thence by steamboat to New Orleans. They traveled rapidly and saw but few objects that were new or very interesting, either to attract attention or to elicit remarks. Nearly the whole distance was a level or an undulating cotton-growing country. Up to the time of their arrival in New Orleans, Mosely had a lingering hope that he might learn something more from Mr. Dubois or Mr. Ellis, the executors of Mr. Bou- verie's will, about the history of the deceased gentleman that would assist him in the investigations he was making. But after he arrived and had conferred with them, he found they could give him no more information than he had re- ceived through Lanabere. He lost no time, therefore, in that city, for he was too anxious to follow up his researches, and to accomplish his mission to Louisiana. Accordingly, he continued his journey without delay, accompanied by Lanabere, to the plantation residence of the late Mr. Bou- verie.   The Di'amond Cross.      265 ,CHAPTER    XXVI. The first thought of Mosely, whenf he reached Lana- bere's estate, was to see the portrait which he believed was connected with the mystery of Mr. O'Donnell's move- ments and Laura's history. Lanabere had ordered it to be placed in a suitable position in the house, and to be carefully preserved, out of respect to his late uncle, who had highly prized it; and, therefore, it was soon found. Mosely gazed some time at this interesting object with fixed attention, and said half audibly, as if unconscious of the presence of Lanabere, "It fnust be so! The same beautiful features, and much the same expression! The j mouth, chin, nose and charming contour resemble hers! Nature's stamp of truth is there! It is impossible my im- agination can deceive me. No; the likeness is too plain. Her mother I Yes, I must believe it is the portrait of her mother." Lanabere heard this ejaculatory soliloquy with surprise, not knowing what it meant or to whom it referred. * "May I ask," he remarked, "what is the meaning of your expressions? You appear to have made a discovery that deeply interests you." "Yes," Mosely replied, turning to Lanabere a little as- tonished, for he was not aware before that his language had been heard; "it is proper for you to ask the question, and the time has come when I ought to explain my im- pressions, or rather my convictions with regard to this por- trait, and the connedion it has with Mr. O'Donnell's mys- terious conduct. I have been groping in darkness up to this time to find the key to a secret in which my happiness   is involved; and now I believe I have found it. If so, I am richly rewarded for my journey hither, and shall owe you a debt of gratitude for your kindness. How gracious do the ways of Providence appear when the veil which covered them is lifted up! I may now hope to be united to my beloved Laura! Oh, what a happy thought is that I! Oh, sir, this discovery, this little picture is of more value to me than would be your plantation and all you possess. But pardon my ebullition of joy in your presence; I am like one, who was blind, having his eyes suddenly opened to the light of day, and .too happy to restrain his feelings. I will proceed, however, to explain. "I have informed you already of the motive that led me to ask for this portrait for a short time, and to follow up the investigations Mr. O'Donnell commenced and left un- explained. I was not aware then, nor could I reasonably conjecture, what connection one had with the other, though I was satisfied both were associated in some way with a question of the greatest interest to me, namely, that of the parentage of Miss Howard. Now that I have seen this portrait I am persuaded, from the unmistakable resem- blance of it to Miss Howard, that the original was her mother. Although I still want legal evidence of the fact, I rejoice in having discovered that which amounts to a moral certainty in my own mind, and which 1 hope will lead to further discoveries. "You heard me mention a name just now, that of Laura, the name of her I love, the name of my betrothed. And I need not say, perhaps, that Laura and Miss Howard are the same person, for you have divined that, I suppose. You remember, doubtless, what 1 said when I first spoke to you about the portrait concerning my position with regard- to Laura, and my remarks relative to the discovery she made that she was not the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Howard, whose name she bore, and who were her putative father and mother. I may inform you now tfiat the knowledge of   tI&e Zinamona Gcross.     267 this fact hindered the consummation of my hopes. The astounding information came suddenly upon us, like a simoon in the East upon the unsuspecting traveler, at the time I was full of hope that the day of our nuptials was near. This was immediately followed by the sad news of the loss of Mr. O'Donnell, who alone knew the secret of Laura's birth. Such an accumulation of grief and disap- pointment to Laura, with the humiliation she felt on finding that she was parentless and without a legitimate name, caused her to go to the convent and to reslove she would not marry unless her parentage should be discovered. Her sensitive and proud spirit would not yield to my entreaties, although she loved me and knew her misfortunes only made me more anxious to become her protector and com- forter. The distressing situation of one so charming, noble in character, and elevated in mind, would arouse the sympathy of any one, and in the days of chivalry she would have found many a gallant knight who would have devoted all his powers, or even his life, to serve her. How much more should I, who love her better than all the world, or life itself, devote myself to her cause? Should not I, her affianced lover, be ceaseless in my efforts to eluci- date the mystery that causes her unhappiness and stands in the way of our union? Yes, sir, I would explore the world or face any danger for her. Now you may learn what a powerful motive influences my conduct and makes me anr active agent in the work Mr. O'Donnell left unfinished." "I have yet to find out who the lady was whose likeness we now see, or rather who the mother of Laura was, for I have no doubt of this beinT her portrait. I suppose she was related to or connected with the O'Donnell family. I cannot account in any other way for Mr. O'Donneli's proceedings, for the deep interest that gentleman felt in Laura, or for his peculiar expressions and manner when I mentioned the name of your uncle and the portrait. I think, too, Mr. O'Donnell had some strong reason' to conceal the secret, -   20o       ine taIam0onda Cross as his mother also seems to have. This may be the great. est difficulty I shall have to encounter in developing the truth. But I will unbury the mystery, however deep it lies, if mortal ingenuity and resolution can do so. "What a strange and romantic story!"Lanabere re- marked. "How surprisingly one event involves another in human affairs, like the links of a chain. All that has been brought to light in this history is the result of our accidental meeting on the passage to this country. "But I cannot imagine what connection the title to my property has with Miss Howard's birth. My uncle pur- chased the estate twenty years ago, and I understand the original title was a good one, and the greater part of the fortune he left was accumulated during that period. There was no mortgage on the property, nor are there any debts or claims left unpaid. My uncle was never married, and I am his heir both by relationship and by his will. If Mr. O'Donnell's investigations, therefore, were made with a view to claim the estate, or any portion of it, as they ap- pear to have been, I think they were based upon visionary suppositions." "I cannot say, however, I should be sorry if it could be proved that there is a more rightful claimant for this slave property. Notwithstanding all your arguments and the modification of my views with regard to the actual con- dition of the negroes, I can never feel' satisfied with being a slave owner. You may say my European education, ideas and prejudices on this subject have formed my con- science, and that there is no principle of abstract right or morality in the question; still it is conscience with me. I do not impugn the motives of yourself and others who sus- tain slavery. I have no doubt you believe you are right, and doing the best for both black and white. I know, too, you have experience, enlightened and liberal views, an ex- cellent judgment, and are conscientious. But your con- science has been formed under different circumstances to   The Diamond Cross.      269 mine, and we each follow the dictates of our own. Even my interests cannot silence this monitor in my breast, which condemns me every moment. Yet I have learned to be tolerant towards those who do not feel and think as I do, and to concede to them the rights and privileges I claim myself." "For this reason, then, as well as from regard for you, and from a wish to see the whole of the mystery unravelled, I shall not only place no obstructions in your way, but will assist you as far as I can in your inquiries and labor of love." Unwilling to leave any possible source of information unexplained, Mosely expressed a wish to see Alice Tem- pleton, the daughter of the former superintendent of the plantation, who had been more intimate with Mr. Bouverie than any other person. He thought she would be more likely to know the secrets of Mr. Bouverie's heart, as she had been with him a great deal, and as he expressed him- self more freely to her, probably, than to others. Mr. Lanabere had learned more about his uncle's private life and habits from her than from any one else ; and none but she appeared to know that the portrait Mr. Bouverie valued so much was that of a lady he had loved. She alone W'it- nessed his emotion when gazing at this precious souvenir, and she only comprehended the secret sorrow that preyed on his soul. But Mosely learned with regret that she had left the plantation with her mother, after the death of her father, and another superintendent came. The negro ser- vants of whom he inquired about- her, wept when they told him "Miss Alice had' gone far away." The neighbors! could tell him little more. They knew she had gone to! Tennessee, but to what part they could not inform him. He was compelled, consequently, to abandon the thouoht of seeing her, and he did so reluctantly, for, while he, did not consider her evidence would be material, he thought it might be suggestive, or throw some light on the subject.   270       Th2e ZDiamond Cross. Lanabere, too, felt regret that Alice Templeton had left the plantation, and could not be found; but for another reason. He reproached himself for having neglected and forgotten this sweet girl, who appeared to have been the only person living in America his uncle loved at the time of his death. She had been the companion, pupil and solace of Mr. Bouverie in his last years, and the angel who soothed his dying hours. Lanabere reflected on this, and censured himself. He said he had been guilty of ingrati- tude, and want of proper respect for the memory and wishes of his uncle. Part of the conversation between Mosely and Lanabere relative to the portrait and Mr. O'Donnell, was heard by Louis, Mosely's servant, which excited his curiosity, and set his speculative brain at work. He heard enough to satisfy him that his master was deeply interested, and that there was some important secret at the bottom. Then the family of O'Donnell, to which he had formerly belonged, having been mentioned, made him more inquisitive, and he revolved the matter over in his mind with a hope that he might be employed in ferreting out the mystery. He took an early opportunity, accordingly, to approach Mosely on the subject, which was in the evening, when that gentleman had retired to his room. The easy, familiar manner and style in which colored servants, whether they be slaves or not, address their Southern masters, though ,always perfectly respectful, would surprise those accustomed only to the obsequious ard timid bearing of servants in Europe. So with Louis, who commenced his remarks without hesitation, and only with that due amount of circumlocution negroes always use by way of preface. He said, "I heard you, Master Charles, speak of Mr. O'Donnell. If you meant the one who was lost at sea, he was my young master. We were boys together, though I was the oldest, and I used to play with him. My mother,   The Dianmond Cross.     27I and all of us, belonged to old Mr. O'Donnell, but were freed when he died. All the family were mighty proud, but good people. They have always been very kind to my mother, and never let her want for anything, because, you see, sir, she was the nurse of the young folks. And my poor young master, who was drowned at sea, was more kind than any of them. I believe she knew something about the family that he wanted kept a secret. I have heard my mother hint as much, though she never said what it was. But I thought it was about Miss Louisa, who gave them all so much trouble." "And who was Miss Louisa?"Mosely asked, impa- tiectly, remembering this was the name of the lady Mr. Bouverie had loved, and whose portrait he had just seen. "Lord bless you, Master Charles, she was a sweet, beau- tiful young lady," said Louis, with emphasis, as if his memory had been carried back suddenly to former days. "She was my young mistress, the only, daughter of old Master O'Dofnnell." "Indeed!"Mosely exclaimed, with surprise. "The sis- ter of Mr. O'Donnell? Would you remember her features, Louis? Is it a long time since you saw her? Could you recognize her likeness?" "Yes, sir," Louis replied, "I should know her face, though it is more than twenty years since I saw her." "Then look at this," Mosely observed, as he held out the portrait to him.  Louis gazed at it a few moments, with his eyes distended and expressing astonishment, and then said, "Gracious goodness, Master Charles! Why, this is as like her as two peas in a -bushel are alike. I have a good memory, and when I see a person once I know him again; and how could I forget-the face of my young mistress I saw a thous- and times? Then nobody else was as pretty as she. No, I cannot be deceived : it is as plain as the sun at noonday. This is the likeness of Miss Louisa."   "Poor young lady," he continued in a meditative tone , as if soliloquizing, but still addressing Mosely, ' everybody loved her, and was grieved at her fate. She was happy as a bird in summer till she saw that foreigner. After she got into trouble with her family, people said she, was wild, though they pitied her because she was kind to' every one. And this is her likeness! I cannot think how it came here, in this out of the way part of the world. None of the O'Donnells ever lived here. It must have belonged to the French gentleman who owned this plantation. What had he to do with old master's family, I wonder?" Louis was proceeding in this strain, forgetting the pre- sence of his master, for his curiosity was intensely excited, when Mosely interrupted him, and asked what he meant by Miss Louisa getting into trouble with her relations, by ' that foreigner," and by saying people were "grieved at her fate." "Ah, sir, he replied, "It caused a great deal of trouble, and was a terrible blow to the pride of the family. I think it killed old master, for he died a few weeks afterward. When she was away from home, visiting somewhere in the North, she fell in love with a foreigner. Some said he was a Frenchman, a handsome man, and rich; others that he was of no account, and not fit to many in the family. I never saw him, and do not know which said the truth. But I do know that all the family opposed her when she wanted to marry. They threatened that if she married that adventurer, as they called him, they would never see her again.  But she had as high a spirit and strong a will as any of them; and when her father wrote to say she must come home, she ran away with her lover. It was reported they were married by a priest in some part of the West. '* Some time afterward I heard whispers that she had been deceived by her husband, that he was a bad man, and that she died with grief at her disappointment, and because her friends would not forgive her. Some said she left hex husband and went to a convent. The family never men-   The Diamond Cross.      273-. tioned her In the hearing of others, and no one knew ex- cept themselves what became of her; or perhaps my mother might have known something, for I heard her hintias much. It is certain that, whatever became of the poor young lady, she had a miserable fate, and her relations have suffered for it ever since." "Is your mother living, Louis? If so, do you think she would remember about the mysterious end or disappear- ance of her young mistress?"Mosely asked. "Yes, Master Charles," Louis answered; "mother is as well and hearty as I am, though she is pretty old now; and as to remembering, she does not forget anything. But she is mighty cute, and it would be hard to get her to tell any secret concerning the family."    .  "You are acute, too, Louis," Mosely continued, "and can accomplish a good deal when you go to work in ear- nest. Now, I want you to find out all your mother knows relative to Miss Louisa. Neither she nor you will harm any one, and perhaps much good may result from the dis- closure. At all events, you will serve me greatly; and I will reward you both." "Lord bless you, Master Charles, you are -very good," said Louis. "It is my duty to do what you wish; but, you see, mother might offend old mistress, and then she would lose her best friend, and would not know how to get a liv- ing, for she cannot work now as she used to work. But I think I can manage the old woman. I shall have to be very smart though, as you say." "Well, Louis, I shall depend upon you," Mosely added, and you must lose no time, when we return to Maryland, in making the investigation. Neither you nor your mother shall suffer. Perhaps -Mrs. O'Donnell will not object, after such a lapse of time, to the truth being made known. But you must keep what you do, or learn, a secret from all ex- cept me. Now, you can go and think over the work you have to perform."   274       fci Diamond Cross. Aflter this colloquy with his servant, Mosely retired, more assured than ever that he was making progress to- ward the solution of the problem that occupied his mind The dark future in which his hopes had been shrouded became less obscure, and he began to see light arising frcm the distant horizon. True there was much to be done before reaching the goal of his desires. The chief question-who Laura's parents were, had yet to be solved. But the dis- coveries he had made in identifying the resemblance of Laura to the portrait, and in the assertion of Louis that it was the likeness of Miss O'Donnell, as well as the informa- tion he had derived from the remarks of Louis relative to the reported marriage and fate of Miss O'Donnell, assured him he held the threads of the entangled mystery, and that it was only necessary to persevere, to unravel the whole. Mr. O'Donnell's strange conduct, and the peculiar manner and expressions of Mrs. O'Donnell, could be satisfactorily explained only in assuming that Laura was nearly related to these persons, and the circumstances just referred to seemed to place that beyond doubt. The success which had followed his efforts thus far, inspired in Mosely happy and grateful feelings, and he recognized in it the work of that Providence which resolves all mysteries, and brings to light the most secret ways of men. * X   Zhe Diamond Cross.        b 7S CHAPTER XXVII. M  OSELY returned to Maryland immediately, leaving Lanabere at the plantation. When he arrived he proceeded at once to the residence of Mrs. O'Donnell, carrying the portrait he had brought from Louisiana with him. He deemed it the wisest course to appear before her and show her this relic suddenly, in order that he might notice better her emotions; for he had no doubt as to the portrait being that of her daughter, and he was not sure that she might not wish to conceal the fact. He found her at home, and was admitted without delay. "I am happy to see you, Mr. Mosely," she said, as he entered the parlor, "the friend of my dear lost son is always welcome, But I have to complain a little of not having received a visit from you for a long time." "I thank you for your kind expression," he replied, "and assure- you I should have renewed my visit before, had I been in Maryland. I have been away on a mission that may prove interesting to you as well as to me. I went to Louisiana shortly after I saw you last to get the portrait of which I spoke, and have just returned." "Indeed!" she observed, "and did you obtain what you went for? I remember you said this was an object that excited my son's curiosity very much. I should be pleased to see it, if convenient for you to bring it." "I have it with me," answered Mosely, and then handed the portrait to her. She gazed at it with intense interest and in silence, while he watched the expression of her countenance. A   276       The Diamond Cross. tear stole down her aged cheek as she muttered the word Louisa. The tears of children or the young do not affect us so much, but when they are forced from the eyes that age and a long life of experience in the sorrows of the world have dried up, it is far more affecting; and Mosely, sympathiz- ing with and respecting grief so sacred and venerable, re- mained silent. Presently she wiped her moistened cheek, and raising her head, said, "This, sir, is the likeness of my daughter, long since dead. Alas, the memory of her comes fresh to my mind and unnerves me. You say it was in the posses- sion of Mr. Bouverie, and left among the effects at the plantation. I now understand why my lamented son should have felt so much interest about it." Then pausing, she muttered to herself in an abstracted mood, "Oh that the villain had lived to meet a just punish- ment! But he is dead, and God will reward him." Mosely overheard these words, and wondered what could be the purport of them. He supposed, however, they were applied to Mr. Bouverie, as that gentleman had posses- sed the portrait, and as the very mention of his name at a former interview with Mrs. O'Donnell was very repugnant to her. But delicacy forbade him asking the question, though he was anxious to know; and as she did not inform him, he was compelled to wait for the explanation in future revelations. "Pardon me," she continued, "for my emotion; painful thoughts of the loss of my children and of past events occupied my mind, and I forgot momentarily I was not alone." "I am sorry to have been the cause of bringing unpleas- ant recollections," replied Mosely, sympathetically, " and as this conversation disturbs you, I will take my leave, by your permission, and renew my visit another day." "No, no," she answered, "I shall be composed now;   The Diamond Cross.      2" and I have something more to say to you. I shall regard you as a friend of the family if you will permit me to have that honor, for you were the friend of my son, and are in- teresting yourself in matters that engaged his attention very much, and in which we all may be concerned." "But I was about to say I had seen Laura. I took the earliest opportunity, after our interview, to go to the con- vent, and had no difficulty in seeing her. I find she has not become a novice. She is very pious, and desires to enter on probation in the regular way; but when the Lady Superior, who regards her with great affection, learned that she had promised to return to the world under certain cir- cumstances, she could be admitted only as a boarder. But she has little expectation of ever leaving, and is preparing her mind for the life of a recluse. She informed me what the circumstances were under which she might leave, and of her promise to you; consequently, I know and can ap- preciate the controlling motive that influences you in your -researches relative to her parentage." "She is a charming young lady, and I feel deeply inter- ested in her. As soon as she learned I was the mother of her dearest-friend, as she affectionately called my departed son, she embraced me and wept with all the affection of a fond child. I told her I would be to her all my son had been, that she should be my daughter, and begged her to leave the convent and return with me home. She replied in the most touching manner, but declined my invitation. "'Oh, how grateful I ought to be," she said; "while so many are friendless in the world, God blesses me with such- kind friends. Those whom I re- garded as my parents by nature have been to me, and still are, loving and good as the heart could desire; and now the mother of my lost and best friend calls me to her bosom as her own child. I feel as if I were' guilty of in- gratitude to complain of my fate. Yet my soul is not sat- isfied. It yearns for her to whom I owe my life.- My own   278      The Diamond Cross. mother, my father-who were they? And where are they? These questions arise in my mind continually, and make me sad. Had I been told, when young, that I was an or- phan, and had grown up with that knowledge, I should have become resigned; but when the intelligence that Mr. and Mrs. Howard were not my parents burst upon me suddenly, like a fearful clap of thunder, I was struck to the ground. Had it not come attended with such circum- stances as it did, I might have suffered less. But, at that time, I was living in the sunshine of joy and hope. I knew no sorrow. I loved and was beloved, and the day of my nuptials was approaching; but 1 could not marry with this cloud over me; 1 could not give to my noble Charles my hand while I was nameless, and knew not who my parents were. Immediately after this came the dread- ful news of the loss of Mr. O'Donnell, and with his death the loss of all my hopes, for he alone appeared to know the secret of my birth. Where, then, could I find conso- lation but in our holy religion? If I cannot be the bride of him I love here, I can find a heavenly bridegroom, and live only for the future. No, dear lady, I may not change my purpose; I may not leave this blessed place but upon one condition. I shall ever cherish a remembrance of your kindness, and pray to God to reward you; but my resolution remains unchanged." "After hearing these words, I ceased to persuadce the poor child, for I saw my efforts would be useless. I left her with regret, as it would have given me great pleasure to have taken her home and to treat her as a daughter." Mosely listened with rapt attention to what Mrs. O'Don- nell said. He had not heard from or of Laura, till then, since she had entered the convent; and every word relative to her, or that she had uttered, was full of the deepest interest and meaning to him. His soul was agitated with mingled feelings of joy, regret, hope, and fear. He rejoiced that he had heard from her, that her religious life and disposi-   The .Diamond Cr'oss.      279 tion had not weakened her love or the binding power of her promise, and that she had mentioned him and their betrothment in the most loving manner. He was glad she had not taken the initiatory or probationery vows of a recluse, but remained where he could see and communicate with her. Still, he regretted her determination not to leave the convent unless and until she could find her legiti- mate name. He would have been gratified had she accepted Mrs. O'Donnell's invitation, and more so if she had returned to the disconsolate Mr. and Mrs. Howard and her former dear and happy home. Then he feared, at times, he might have difficulty in finding proofs of her parentage, though he might obtain information that would satisfy him- self. But he continued to hope, and inspired by that, he was resolved not to relax his efforts to unravel the mys- tery. He thought it strange Mrs. O'Donnell did not perceive or make the least allusion to the resemblance of Laura to the likeness which she had recognized immediately as that of her daughter. It could not be possible, he reasoned, that she did not see the resemblance, which was so striking that he had noticed it at once. Nor did she allude to the diamond cross which Laura wore, which had excited her curiosity previously, and which her son had said be- longed once to Laura's mother. What, then, could be the cause of her reticence? All the circumstances connected with Laura's history which had been evolved, particularly Mr. O'Donnell's con- duct, implied a relationship. Besides, Laura not only resembled the portrait, but Mr. and Mrs. O'Donnell also, though less strikingly. Everything pointed to the conclu- sion that she was a relative of the family. Why, then, such silence? Why such secrecy as that observed, first by Mr. O'Donnell, and now, apparently, by his mother? Was there some painful secret this proud family dreaded being exposed? Mosely suspected that to be the case, and   280       The Diamnond Cross. feared it would prove the greatest obstacle he might have to encounter. Considering everything that bore upon the question, Mosely had no donbt Laura was the child of Mrs. O'Don- nell's daughter. He had hoped Airs. O'Donnell would say something to give him an opportunity of delicately say- ing what he believed. but she had not, and he felt embar- rassed with regard to introducing the subject. Yet, this was the first and a very important step to be taken, delicate as it might be. After reflecting a few moments, therefore, he resolved to introduce the matter in as polite a manner  as possible. He remarked to Mrs. O'Donnell, accordingly "I re- member you manifested a good deal of curiosi-ty about the diamond cross Laura wears as a souvenir of her unknown mother, when I first mentioned it; mlay I ask if you saw it when you were at the convent?" "Yes, sir," she said laconically, in a low voice, as if her thoughts were absorbed with something else. This curt reply checked and caused him to pause a moment. Then he continued, Will you permit me to in- quire if you ever saw it before, or can conjecture who was its former possessor? I make this inquiry because I under- stand your son said it belonged to Laura's mother, and Mr. and Mrs. Howard stated, in my presence, that while they did not know the name, history or position of that person, they were informed and believe it was a relic of her." Mrs. O'Donnell appeared somewhat surprised and con- fused at these direct questions; but, after a little hesitation, she replied, "I may have seen the cross before; but, if so, many years have passed since I saw it, and I am not sure I can identify it."  Mosely felt a desire -to know what was her opinion or belief; but as she was not inclined to be communicative on the subject, he did not think he should learn more,   Thle Diamond Cross.      281 and he was not disposed to urge his questions beyond the limits of propriety. He turned the conversation to the portrait, therefore, hoping to hear something more explicit and satisfactory from her relative to Laura's resemblance to that. "When I first saw this portrait," he said, holding it in his hand, "I was instantly impressed with the likeness of Laura to it, and the more I look at it the more striking I think the resemblance." Then he paused for a response. "That may be so," she answered faintly, as she looked at Mosely with a searching glance, as if she would read his thoughts; " my daughter was beautiful, and so is Laura; and there may be something of the same type of beauty. But such a similarity of personal appearance is not very remarkable, and may be seen sometimes where there is no relationship." This guarded language, and the expression of Mrs. O'Donnell's countenance, perplexed Mosely, for he thought he saw in her a great reluctance, if not a fixed purpose, not to regard or recognize Laura as a relation of her family. He had reached the bounds that a respectful delicacy prescribed in his questions and intimations, and had not succeeded in attaining what he wished. What was he to do? Abandon his researches and expectations in that direction, and pursue another course? He was more satis- fied than ever, especially since this conversation with Mrs. O'Donnell, that he had conjectured right about the mater- nity of Laura. Reflecting a moment upon the matter, he determined to make another attempt to ascertain Mrs. O'Donnell's opinion, or the cause of its concealment. "When I identified the likeness of Laura to the portrait," he continued, "I was much gratified, for I supposed it,was that of her mother;, and when I considered the deep in- terest Mr. O'Donnell exhibited about that relic, as well as in Laura, with all the collateral circumstances bearing upon the question, I no longer doubted."   Mrs. O'Donnell rose from her seat in agitation when Mosely uttered these words, and in a surprised manner exclaimed, "And do you believe, sir, Laura's mother was my daughter?" "Pardon me, madame, if I say so," Mosely firmly replied; "I can't help believing it." "Impossible, impossible!" she responded emphatically. "You are laboring under an extraordinary misapprehen- sion or delusion, and I regret so sensible and polite a gentleman should have expressed such an opinion to me. You have no facts or any evidence to sustain this assump- tion. While I have the greatest sympathy and kindest feelings for Laura, and should be happy to take her home and act as a mother to her, I cannot permit the impression that she is my grandchild to be entertained." Mosely rose to leave, for he found himself in an unpleas- ant situation. It was evident he had probed a tender sub- ject too deeply, and Mrs. O'Donnell's rather excited lan- guage was not quite courteous or complimentary. He could not hold a controversy with an old lady on such a delicate matter, especially when he had no positive proofs to offer in support of his own convictions and the strong presumptive evidence he had collected. "I beg you to accept my apology, madam," he said, "for expressing my opinion so frankly. I did not contemplate the effect it has produced. I hope you believe that I meant nothing disrespectful to you or your family, and that my honesty and good motives may be accepted as an excuse for my imprudence. And now, as our conversation on the subject is not altogether agreeable, I will leave, by your permission, assuring you of my esteem and readiness to call again whenever you may desire to see me." As soon as Mrs. O'Donnell perceived the effect of her remarks, and that Mosely had cut short their interview in consequence, she changed her tone and renewed her for- mer complacency. She expressed regret at his leaving,   I7 e Diamond Cross.     283 and requested him to repeat his visit, saying she hoped to continue friendly intercourse with both him and Laura, as they had been the dear friends of her lamented son. Mosely left Mrs. O'Donnell with the settled conviction that there was a profound secret connected with the family, in which her daughter, whom he believed was the mother of Laura, and Laura herself, were involved. The repug- nance of Mrs. O'Donnell to listen even to the suggestion that Laura was her grandchild, and against such a weight of presumptive evidence, accorded so much with the con- -duct of her son, that Mosely was convinced his belief was well founded.  He was satisfied, too, the secret must be of a very painful nature to cause these highly respectable persons to repudiate, seemingly, the blood-ielationship of one so near to them. tie saw plainly he could have no hope of arriving at the truth by the assistance of Mrs. O'Donnell, and that he must pursue his investigations through other channels. ,  i CHAPTER     XXVIII.           1 THE first thought of Mosely after his unsatisfactory  interview with Mrs. O'Donnell, was to see Laura.  He had just learned there would be no difficulty in seeing  and conversing with her, she being only a boarder in the ( convent, and he resolved to proceed there immediately.  1 The weeks that had passed since he'saw her seemed to be  1 years, and he was impatient to see her again. Moved by  this ardent desire, while his mind was meditating on what had passed  between Mrs. O'Donnell and himself, he  proceeded, almost unconsciously, on the way to the con- vent.                           i In his abstraction, he did not think of the time when he started or would arrive, and found himself at the end of the journey when the hour for receiving visitors had passed. He was compelled, consequently, to wait till the following morning, and he went to the nearest tavern for the night. When he would have retired, his restless soul refused to slumber, and at a late hour, when no human voice or foot was heard in the vicinity of the place where his beloved rested, he walked and meditated round the sacred precincts. The full, bright moon, near the zenith, and in a cloudless sky, shone bright as day, and flecked the earth with an infinite variety 1 of forms and shadows from the boughs and foliage of the  1 surrounding shrubs and trees. Not a breath of wind dis- turbed the profound silence that reigned, and the soft air ! was redolent with perfumes from the numerous gardens in the neighborhood. The high, dark walls of the nunnery loomed up gloomily in the clear moonlight, and gave solemnity to the scene. Everything contributed to awaken   The Diamond Cross.       85  reflection and stimulate the imagination. Mosely was in just the frame of mind to cogitate on the past and present, or to indulge his fancy in contemplating the future. "These gloomy walls that separate me from my beloved," he said musingly, " fitly represent the dark mystery that hinders our union. It is cruel fate that holds back the joy of hearts so fond-that will not smile benignly when nature has made us for each other, and formed us to enjoy the greatest happiness of wedded life. But, to-morrow, when the sun opens the portals of day, these doors will be open to me, and I shall stand by the side of my love. Oh, that the light of truth would shine early, too, and reveal the secret that keeps us apart! A few hours will bring me one happiness-will a few days, weeks, or months bring me a greater? My soul longs for her I love as the-stricken deer pants for water. I would gaze through these stones to behold her. Does she sleep, or is she awake? Are her thoughts of me? or am I present in her dreams? Can the spirit, like thought, penetrate these walls? Is she conscious of my presence? Electricity and magnetism, those won- derful invisible agents in nature, pierce the most solid sub- stancts, and course through space like the imagination. Why may not the soul? Is there such a thing as presenti- ment-to see with the eye of the mind what the bodily eye cannot see? Or is there ever a communion or correspond- ence with the souls of those who are absent from each other, thought answering to thought, as word to word in conversation? If so, my impassioned soul has penetrated the recesses of this convent, and my beloved Laura is now thinking of me in responsive fondness. "Perhaps her gentle spirit refused to let me sleep, and called me to meditate here. Perhaps she knew I should experience the happiness I do, and led me here to enjoy it. To have slumbered on this occasion, and on such a night) would have been unworthy of my love. My passion ethe- realizes my nature and contemns sleep.   286       The Diamond Cross. !"But these high walls and barred gates are suggestive of another thought, and not an agreeable one. Should I fail to discover beyond doubt the parentage of my dear Laura, she will be immured within them. Such a sad and gloomy existence seems horrible. I cannot contemplate a death like that-for dead she would be to me and to the beautiful world-without shuddering. It may not be so to those pious souls who take the veil; but for one so bright and beautiful as she, whose soul was formed to enjoy life and the beauties of nature, and to make others happy, to be im- prisoned here, appears a painful sacrifice. That must not be her fate. I will unbury this secret, deep as it may lie, and restore her to happiness and her proper destiny." Mosely lingered near the convent in this refleftive mood for some time, and then returned, with unwilling steps, to the tavern. He had but little time to rest, and did not feel he needed it. He retired, however, till breakfast time, and then rose and proceeded to visit Laura. As soon as the hour arrived when visitors were admitted to the nunnery, he was there, and he had to wait a few minutes only before Laura entered the reception room. "Laura, my love!" he said, as he extended his arms to embrace her, "this is great happiness." "Dear Charles," she uttered, in a faint voice, and with tears in her eyes, as she rested her head on his bosom. Her heart was too full to say more. "Be calm, my dearest," he added, soothingly; "I bring you good tidings. The star of our hope rises brighter, and our sorrows and disappointments will end ere long. Be not troubled; I have come to cheer you, and bid you look to the bright future before us." In this manner he calmed her emotion. She raised her eyes fondly and inquiringly to his as she said, "' What good news have you brought me?  You come always like an angel, bringing peace and hope, and dispelling my fears. In your presence it is sunshine, and night in your absence.'   The Diamond Cross.      287 He took the portrait he held in his hand from the case, and said, "Look at this I Can you recognize the features? Have-you not seen a face like that!" She looked at it attentively, and with some surprise; then replied, "I might take it for an imperfect likeness of myself, had I ever sat for one. But it could not have been taken as mine, unless some artist took it from memory, and I do not remember having been in the presence of any one who could do that. Besides, it is too flattering: I do not imagine I am so handsome. Nor is it a perfe&l like- ness in other respe5s. But my curiosity is excited. Whose portrait may it be?" "Not yours, my Laura, though the resemblance is re- markable," he answered. "It is the likeness of her who gave you being--your mother."  "My mother!" she repeated, with emphasis and astonish- ment, gazing again intently on the portrait, and pressing it to her bosom. "Is it possible? My own dear mother?" Then silently contemplating the outlines and expression of the face some moments, she continued, "Yes, I will believe it, for you have said so; and my longing heart per- suades me it is true. Yes, I do resemble the likeness of my mother. But where is she? Is she living? Can 1 not see her? Oh, tell me, -best of friends, where I ma) find her!" "These questions, dear Laura, I cannot answer yet," he replied; "but I believe I shall be able to do so before long. In the meantime, quiet your fears and live in hope. The clouds that hung heavily over us are being chased away one by one, and presently we shall enjoy the sum- mer's sun." He then informed her of his journey to Lanabere's plan- tation, and how he identified her resemblance to the por. trait immediately he saw it, with other circumstances bear- ing on -the question of her parentage. He mentioned, particularly, the recognition of the portrait by Louis as   288       The Diamond Cross. that of his former young mistress, as well as his remarks  relative to Miss O'Donnell and the family, concluding by giving a full account of the interview between Mrs. O'Don- i nell and himself. Laura listened with profound attention, the expression of her countenance varying with her emotions, as he .pro- ceeded with the narrative; and so astonished was she at these revelations, that she remained silent and thoughtful after Mosely had concluded his remarks. At last she observed, "How strange-how very strange, is all this! And, alas, how painful! Gracious heaven I Can it be possible that I am the victim of a proud family who conspired to take away my name? And one of that family my dearest friend! Oh, the terrible thought that he might have robbed me of my birthright! I cannot en- dure it! I must not think so, for it would distract my brain. Or am I to take the other alternative, more heart- rending still, that I have no legitimate name? God forbid! - I will not think so evil of my mother. But what am I to think or do? I desire more eagerly than ever that the truth should be brought to light. To accomplish this I have the consolation to know that you, my noble Charles, are the champion in my cause, and that your devotion and sagacity may disclose the distressing mystery. I could have submitted to my misfortune more quietly before these developments, but a sense of justice and a desire to vindi- cate my right animate me now. Go, then, Charles; in the cause of justice and love pursue your labors, and God will defend the right." "No knight in the romantic days of chivalry ever had a more powerful incentive to defend the innocent and loyely than that which inspires me, or a better cause," remarked Mosely, " and I will not be excelled by any in devotion. I never did despair of success, and am more sanguine than ever. Yes, my love shall be the talisman to reveal the truth, as the touch of Ithuriel's spear exposed the   The Diamond Cross.      289 disguised fallen spirit. Be assured, then, dearest Laura, the days of our separation are numbered, and will soon end." "Mrs. O'Donnell may not know all the secret, though I cannot conceive how she could resist the strong presump- tive evidence of your near relationship to her. If she should be ignorant of your birth, of her daughter having had a child, or of the existence of such a child, it would be charitable to suppose she is sincere is rejecting this evidence, which is satisfactory to us, as illusory. "The worst feature in the matter as regards her, is her impatience and unwillingness to entertain the thought that you may be her grand-daughter. But, we must suspend judgment till I produce additional testimony, and see the effect of that. "With regard to Mr. O'Donnell, he knew, undoubtedly, all the secret, and was chiefly concerned it. But, I am persuaded he contemplated revealing it in due time, and would have done so had he lived. What his motive was for concealing it so long we do not know at present, but may probably, when the matter shall be fully developed. However, I cannot excuse even him, notwithstanding his high character, and great love and care for you, for con- cealing that which you had a right to know; though I think it probable there may be in the circumstances that influenced his conduct much that is palliating." ( Surely there were such extenuating circumstances," re- sponded Laura. "It would make me unhappy to suppose that Mr. O'Donnell could have done an unworthy deed. To think that one so noble, generous, and to me good and tender as a parent, could act from any other than the purest and kindest motives, would be painful. I cherish his memory so fondly that I would not for the world know there was the least stain upon it. Mrs. O'Donnell, too, I wish to regard with- affection and esteem, because she is his mother,; and because of the kindness she mani;ested   290      h7e Diamond Cross. when visiting me. For these reasons, irrespective of the stronger ties of relationship, I hope the developments you may make will show their conduct to be excusable. "When Mrs. O'Donnell was here she was very affection- ate to me, called me her child-out of regard to her son's paternal care over me, as she said-and offered to adopt me into her family. I felt much gratified, as you may suppose, but declined the offer, for I had no intention to leave the convent, and both duty and inclination would lead me to my own dear home in the mountains, to live with those who brought me up and whom I love dearly, if I should leave at all, save to perform my promise to you. She evinced some curiosity to see my diamond cross, which she told me you had spoken of as the only relic I possessed of my unknown mother. She examined it closely while asking me many questions about my history, and particu- larly as to her son having told Mr. and Mrs. Howard the cross once belonged to my mother. I did not notice her manner or expressions as particularly then as I should now, but I remember hearing her utter some words, faintly, and ejaculatory, as, " it is very strange! Can it be possible? I will not believe it!" or similar words, which surprised me a little. But as she did not inform me what she meant, and her expressions not being for my ear, I did not presume to ask. Indeed, I thought her whole mannerj though affectionate, strange and confused, as if her mind were agitated by conflicting reflections or startling reminis- cences i; which I attributed, however, rather to a habit of mumbling certain aged persons have, than to anything else. "From what you tell me I am persuaded, too, that my mother was the daughter of Mrs. O'Donnell, and sister of my lost friend. But who was my father? Have you any in- formation bearing upon this question? Have you formed an opinion from anything that has occurred in the course of your investigations? The discoveries you have made in- crease my anxiety to know all." i   2he Diamond Cross.       291 "I can form but one opinion, dear Laura," Mosely an- swered, " and that is, that Mr. Bouverie, formerly Mr. Mer- cier, was your father. True, the circumstantial evidence is not so clear in this case as in that regarding your mo- ther, but it is strong enough to make the supposition highly probable. "Mr. O'Donnell, in his conversation with me, mentioned you in a conneftion with his proceedings relative to the Bouverie estate.' His journey to Louisiana and voyage to France, the examinations he made and testimony he took, as well as his dire& assertions, show he was preparing to institute a suit with regard to that property. If he did not say plainly you were interested, he stated positively these proceedings referred to you, and to some secret their suc- cessful termination would enable him to disclose. His re- quest, too, that we should not marry till he returned and could impart some important information to us, shows you were concerned. I cannot suppose for a moment the interest Mr. O'Don- nell felt about the Bouverie estate, and the adion he took with a view to contest Mr. Lanabere's title to it, arose from any business transactions between him and -Mr. Bouverie, dating back more than twenty years, or that the original title was defeCtive, and he was about to contest it on that ground. For -if that were the case, how could you be in- terested? What necessity would there be to make a se- cret of it and to connect your name with that secret? In fact, it is evident to my mind- you were principally con- cerned, and that Mr. O'Donnell was acting for you more than for himself." "Then there is no doubt, I think, that 'the Frenchman' Miss O'Donnell (or Miss Louisa, as' Louis called her,) eloped with and was married to, somewhere in the West or Canada, as supposed, was Mr. Mercier, afterwards Mr. Bouverie. We learn that the portrait which Mrs. O'Don- nell recognizes as that of her daughter, and Louis as that   of his young mistress, was a souvenir of Mr. Bouverie's love. Miss Templeton said distinctly Mr. Bouverie avowed it was a likeness of the lady he had loved, and called her Louisa. She added, too, that the memory of this lady seemed to have a great influence over Mr. Bouverie's mind and destiny. Besides, it is manifest from the surprised manner and expressions of both Mr. Donnell and his mother, when Mr. Mercier was first mentioned, that they had a painful recollection of that person and of some mystery in connection with him and their family. Con- sidering all these circumstances, I cannot doubt that this gentleman was your father." "These are extraordinary developments," Laura said, in a serious, refledtive mood. "I am bewildered ; for they are more like a dream than reality. The change from a life so quiet, even and retired as mine was but a few months ago to one so eventful, is scarcely realizable to the mind. How mysterious are the ways of Providence! We know not what lies before us-what a day may bring forth. To day, as the poet says, man puts forth the tender leaves of hope, to-nmorrow blossoms, and then comes a frost and nips his root, and he falls. Mine was a life of contentment and placid happiness, unruffled by storms of trouble. I hardly knew by experience what the word sorrow meant; but at last the flood came, and nearly overwhelmed me. God grant that gloomy period may be passed, and that the dawn of hope, which has come with you, may become brighter as time advances. Oh, how much I owe to you, dear Charles! Without you I should have despaired; I could have done nothing. And now my soul is lifted up as I look at what you have accomplished, and in anticipation of what, under Providence, you may accomplish. "My thoughts were with you continually in your absence; often you were present in the visions of the night; and I praved for your safety and success. Sometitlhes my heart was cheered by the creations of my fancy; and last night   Tie 7Diamond Cross.'     293 I saw you distinctly in my dreams, smiling and inspiring me with hope, ash I see you to day. I heard almost the same language, and I conversed with you, in my imagi- nation, as I do now. Strange coincidence, that while I supposed you far away--for I did not exped you to return so soon--you were near me. If I believed in presentations or the power of mind, according to the theory of some, I should think your spirit was communicating with mine." "It was, my dear Laura," Mosely observed. "I was very near you in reality; only these walls separated us. In the still hours of the night, while you were slumbering, I was addressing you in the impassioned language of love, and calling upon you to hear me. I know not if the soul possesses the quality of duality or of ubiquity, to some ex- tent; but I do know that my desire, my will, my thoughts and imagination penetrated these sombre walls. "I could not rest in my room, and at midnight I arose and walked to the convent, and there lingered till the first streaks of dawn notified me it was time to return. Every- thing impressed the -soul and aroused the fancy. I was near you. I should see you in a few hours. I had good tidings to communicate. The night was charming beyond description, and I was in a happy, meditative mood. If the mind becomes highly spiritualized at times under cer- tain conditions, having more strength than usual, and acquiring something of a supernatural or godlike force, as the magnet acquires power and intensity -when excited, it would be under such circumstances. I felt something like a divine energy or inspiration, such as an inspired rhapso- dist might feel, and I almost believed I could impress you with a sense of my proximity." Thus Mosely and Laura continued their conversation in language and tones that such lovers only can appreciate till it was time to part. But before he left he informed her what would be the course of his future action in searching for evidence relative to her parentage. i   294       Ihe Diamond Crass. He concluded not to go to Mrs. O'Dopnell again, or to any of the family, believing he could obtain no information from them until he could present such testimony as they could not resist. His first step was to see the confidential old nurse, the mother of Louis, who, he thought, knew more than any one of the O'Donnell's living, about her young mistress. Louis had intimated that she possessed some important family secret, and Mosely supposed she had been in the confidence of Mr. O'Donnell, concerning' the fate of the young lady; and he thought it highly pro- bable she was the nurse who had taken the infant Laura to Mrs. Howard. He left Louis in -Baltimore to obtain the desired information, or to prepare the way for obtain- ing it, if possible, while he was away. He returned, therefore, with some anxiety, and speedily, after taking leave of Laura.   The Diamond Cross.     2a95 CH-IAPTER    XXIX. TWHEN a lover of music leaves the opera, where he has heard from the richest tones of voice the deli- cious melodies of Bellini, the soul-touchingstrains appear to sound in his ear some time afterwards, and he goes along with his mind full of harmony. Every faculty seems to be stimulated, his countenance wears a sweeter aspect, and he is for the time a happier man. Mosely was in much such a mood when he left Laura and was on the way to Baltimore. Her hopeful and encouraging words dwelt in his memory, and were music to his soul. She no longer desponded, but anticipated a happy future. She had not used such inspiring language previouisly, for then she had little expectation of ever leaving the convent. It seemed to him that he heard her sweet voice repeating in whispers, as he journeyed along, what she uttered during their con- versation; and this made the prospect look brighter and filled his soul with joy. On arriving at Baltimore he called his faithful servant, Louis, to learn if any information had been obtained from the old nurse; and when Louis came, his face beaming with satifaction, Mosely felt assured at once that he had agreeable intelligence to communicate. "Well, Louis," Mosely said, " have you seen your mother? If so, what have you learned?" "Yes, Master Charles," Louis replied, "I did see her, direftly after you left, and she was mighty glad to see me. ,I knew she was in good humor as soon as she spoke. Then I took some presents for her, just such as would please her. She was delighted, and called me a good son-   296       The Diamonz Corass. Old folks like presents, Master Charles, because they think they are not forgotten on account of being old. Mother ' cannot work now as she did once, and cannot get such things herself, though she does not suffer from wanting any- thing necessary. But, as I was going to say, I thought it a good time to sound her about Miss Louisa. So, after talk- ing a while about her health, and myself, and where I had been, and so forth, I began to touch lightly on the business I had to do. "I asked her first how long old Master had been dead, just to open the subject, and not to come to the point at once, for I thought it would be best to beat round the bush." She said, "I do not remember exactly; it is a long time ago; it may be twenty years. You ought to know, Louis; you are younger than I be, and keep account of time better. Poor old master I I always thought Miss Louisa broke his heart. I never saw him smile again after she run away with that Frenchman ; and you know he died soon after. Lord bless us, what trouble that made in the family! I shall never forget it!" ^ I thought this a good time to put in a word about Miss Louisa, and said, "Yes, mother, that was a terrible busi- ness. I have often wondered what became of the poor young lady. You remember there were a great many things said by other folks, though the family said nothing. Some said she died, some she had gone to France, and- some that she was not married, and was in a convent." - "Mother looked at me hard, as much as to say, what are you driving at, and then looking around to see if any one could hear her, she said, in a sort of whisper, "That is a secret, Louis. I don't think anybody knew it but youing master, who is dead and gone. He was very goocdand loved his sister very much, and I suspect he knew, though he might not have told old master or mistress, for they- were very proud and angry and would not forgive her. But people may think what they please, and I have my own   The Diamnond Cross.     297 opinion. I don't think she died when it was reported so. I saw her after any of them except young master. I know something perhaps they don't-a secret young master told me never to reveal-and I never have, for, God bless him, he was always so good to me. Ah! I lost a good friend when he was buried in the sea, as they said." "' Do you think mother,' I continued,' Miss Louisa was married to the French gentleman?' "' Married? Why certainly,' she replied. You don't think a young lady belonging to such a family, and so proud as she was, would run away with a man and not be mar- ried. No, she had too high a spirit and was too good for that. And if she was not, she ought to have been-that I know. O, yes, she must have been married, for young master said so, though it was very strange she did not live with her husband.' "'Where, then, did she live?' I asked quickly, thinking I should get an answer before mother had time to reflect; but she was too cunning, and was not to be trapped that way. How should I know?' she said; and what do you want to ask for? I don't know where she lived; but I know where I saw her. But don't ask any more questions, because, as 1 said, I must not tell the secret young master told me to keep.' "I saw I could not circumvent her any more than you can an old coon, so I determined to make no more flank movements, and to go directly to the point. 'Mother,' I said, ' 1 want you to tell :me one thing, and may be you will do both of us a-great deal of good by it. I want to know if Miss Louisa ever had a child?' "' I told you not to ask me any more questions, Louis,' she answered. 'It is none of your business whether Miss Louisa had a child or not. I promised young master I never would tell, and I am not going to tell. I should like to know what you busy yourself about her for? I suppose you have got some new notion in your head.'   29$      ahe Diamond Cross. "I said I would tell her a secret, too, that she would like to know, if she would let me know hers, and one that con- cerned us both very much. She did not believe me at first, and said I only wanted to pump her, and had nothing to tell. But her curiosity was excited, and she said if I would say what I meant she might let me know something, though she could not tell the secret young master entrusted to her. "I told her then all about finding Miss Louisa's picture, and that a young lady was found who was the daughter- that very child Miss Louisa had. I told her, too, that my master was very much interested, and would be a good friend to her if she would tell all she knew about the child. "She said I was talking nonsense, and pretended not to believe me; but I could see she was anxious to learn more. She asked me where the young lady was found, how old she was, and who she was like, and many more questions. "t I told her she had been raised by young master, with a family by the name of Howard, whose name she had, and did not know till lately that her right name was not How- ard; that she was as like Miss Louisa and the picture as two leaves on a tree ; that she had some jewelry which be- longed once to her mother, and it was known that this had been Miss Louisa's jewelry. I said it was no use denying it, for it was certain she was the grand-daughter of old Mistress O'Donnell. "'Lord bless us, Louis,' mother exclaimed, 'you surprise me. I thought you were only pretending to know some- thing. I think now you are in earnest, and there must be some truth in what you say. It would be very strange if that should be so. But does old mistress know this, Louis?'"    "I answered she did know it, and had seen the young lady, but would not believe it possible she had a grand-  daughter, or that this young lady was related to her. I   Thge Diamond Cr ss.     299 told mother you wanted to get more proofs of the fact, and that she must tell you all she knew; warning her not to speak to old mistress about the matter. "I could not get any more information from her, but I am -sure, Master Charles, she knows more, and I think she will tell you all.' She seemed much surprised, and kept mut- tering to herself all the evening about what I told her. I said, you wished to see her, and she is coming to see you to-morrow morning." .  Mosely listened with eager attention to the prolix state- ment of Louis, and would have brought him to the point he wanted him to reach much sooner if he 'could; but being aware of the incurable habit of all negroes for tedious circumlocution, he knew if he interrupted him the effect would be to prolong the story through the excuses and ad- ditional explanations that would be made. After hearing it all as patiently as possible, he was satis- fied the mother of Louis possessed valuable information regarding Laura's birth, and that her testimony would be important in clearing up the matter. He waited anxiously to see her, therefore, with the determination that he would obtain the information at any cost. On the morrow, accordingly, the old nurse of the O'Don- nell family went to Mosely. She was decked in her best, as if conscious she was on important business. She made a low courtesy on entering the apartment, with the usual polite salutation of "Good morning, sir," never omitted by negroes in the South. "Good morning, Lucy," Mosely responded, "I am glad to see you;" telling her at the same time to be seated. "You are aware, already, from the conversation you had with Louis, yesterday, what I wished to see you for. You know, I believe, something about the birth of a female child, twenty years ago. That child is now living and a young lady. I mean the child your young mistress had, after her marriage with the French gentleman, and after she-was )    3co       The Diamond Cross. discarded by the family. I want you to give me all the information you can about that; and I will reward you handsomely." "Lord bless you master," she said, "I ought -not to do that; for, you see, it is a great secret, which young master O'Donnell said I must never tell. Though he is dead I shall respect his wish, for he was very good to me. Then, I might offend the family, and should lose those who be- friend me in old age; and I am not strong to work for a living as I used to be." "You shall not suffer, Lucy," said Mosely, "I will take care of you. There, take this as a token of what Iwill do hereafter," handing her a purse of gold. "I do not want you to say anything you ought not. If Mr. O'Donnell were living 1 am sure he would not object, and, I have no doubt, would reveal the secret himself. Had he lived a little longer he would have declared this young lady his sister's child, if I do not mistake the meaning of his language and conduct. Then, there is no longer any reason, if there were heretofore, for concealing the truth. Besides, you will be doing a good deed in rendering justice to the grand child of your old master, and in restoring her perhaps to the family. I think your own conscience will approve of your conduct, and I believe the family will thank you when all the facts become known." While Mosely was making these remarks she glanced frequently at the purse in her hand with surprise and much gratification; and when he had concluded, she repeated her thanks and blessing for the valuable present she had received. "God bless you, sir," she said. "Louis told me you were very good; and now I can say so as well as he. If you think I shall not be doing wrong to tell about Miss Louisa, and the child, and that poor young master, if alive, would not object, I will tell you." "I remember well everything about that, though it is a   The Diamond Cross.      30xt long time ago, for when she ran away, as they said, with the French gentleman, it made a great deal of trouble. The family, ever got over it; for, You see, sir, they were mighty proud folks. They would not forgive her, or see her again. I could not help crying when I thought of her, for she was a sweet -young lady, and I nursed her when she was a child. They never spoke of her at home, and she was never seen in master's house again. Many things were said by other peqple, but no one appeared to know what became of her. I thought it very hard that she should be treated, so by her own kin, but it was not in- my place to say so. "Old master O'Donnell died not long after, and I and my children were made free. He had always said he would free us at his death, and did so. I did not live in the family any longer, but at my own home, though I used to work for them, and they continued to be kind to me. "Some time after Miss Louisa went away, may-be nearly a year after, though I do not remember exactly, young master came to me at home, and said he wanted me to go with him; that I might be away for a month or two, and that I must not say to any one, not even to the family, where I was going or what for, but pretend I was going to the North for some other purpose. He said I should see Miss Louisa, and learn then what I had to do. "He took me on the cars with him to New York, and to a house there where Miss Louisa was staying. She was pleased to see me, and I was very glad to see her. She was much changed; looked as if she had been in great trouble, and many years older. I could hardly believe my eyes. It made me cry to see her look so. She had been so beautiful; bright as sunshine, gay as a bird, and proud and high-spirited; but she looked then sad and- broken- Carted. A, She told me she expected to have a baby soon, and that she had sent for me to be her nurse. She said none   302       The Diamond Cross. of the family except her brother knew where she was or anything about her, and she did not want them to know. She knew she could trust me, and told me so, and said I must never breathe a word about her having a child or having seen her. "About a week after, she was confined and had a fine baby, a daughter. I stayed over two months with her, and then she told me I was to return to Maryland with young master, and take the child with me to a person who would nurse and bring it up. "I said I wondered how she could part with the dear little babe. -She cried bitterly when I made the remark, and nearly smothered the sweet infant with kisses. I was sorry I said what I did, because it made her feel so miser- able. Yes, Lucy,' she said,- it breaks my heart to part with her, but it is best; it is God's will, and he will pro- tect her.' Ah, sir, I shall never forget how sad she looked at that moment. I could cry when I think of it, though it is a long time ago. "I once asked her about her husband, for I thought there was something wrong, as she was left alone, and as I never heard her mention him. "She told me she did not know where he was, and did not wish to know; that he had deceived her, and was a bad man. I said she ought to go home to her own friends again, and they would forget the past. 1 did not think they would be so hard-hearted as not to receive her, for it made my heart bleed to see her so wretched. "'No, never, Lucy,' she said firmly, and with all the O'Donnell pride. ' There is no more home for me on earth ; but, bless God, I shall find one in heaven.' Poor young lady, I wept for pity's sake when she said this. I won- dered what she meant, and have often wondered and cried since, when I thought of her words and grief. "The morning appointed to leave, young master came with a carriage, and took me, with the child, to the cars.   7le SDiamond Cross.      33 I thought we should not be able to get away, for Miss Louisa clung so to her dear babe, weeping as if parting with it would be her death. I did think, really, she-would change her mind and not let it go at all. But we started at last, and came to Maryland. Young master said he had taken me to be with Miss Louisa, and to carry the child where it was going, because I was a faithful old servant of the family and he could trust me. He said all I had seen and heard, as well as what I was doing, must be a secret for ever, and that none others of old master's family, my own children, -or anybody else, were ever to know. He promised, at the same time, I should never want for any thing; and, indeed, sir, I never did while he was living, for he was the best gentleman in the world. "When we arrived near Baltimore he took me and the child in another carriage to a house not far from the city, but where, I could not tell, for it was dark. A nice looking country lady, like a farmer's wife, took the child from me as soon as we entered, and young mas- ter and I left directly for the city. "When I got home I wondered at all that had happened and what was going to become of my poor young mistress. I don't know the name of the lady who took the child, for young master did not tell me, and we were there only a few minutes. I never saw her before, and never since. That, sir, is the last time I saw Miss Louisa or the child. I think no one but young master knew where they went, or whether they were dead or alive, and he neither told me or mentioned them again. I asked him once, but he re- plied he could not say anything about them, and that I must forget they had ever lived. Of course, I could not ask him again, and I have not heard a word about them since. "But Louis says, sir, you have found Miss Louisa's daughter, and I think you meant as much when you said just now I might do some good and help to restore a young e*         , ' *   ova       ie nP/lrntzonf Cross. lady to her family. I iope it is so, and that my old eyes nlay be blessed with a sight of her again, now she is grown up." "Yes, Lucy, you shall see Miss Laura," Mosely replied, "and she will not forget what you have done for her." "Laura, did you say, master?"Lucy asked; "is that the name ot the young lady? Sure enough, sir, that is the very name Miss Louisa gave her child. I remember, now you mention it, though I had forgotten it. And my young mistress, sir, where is she? Is she living? It would make me happy to see her again." "We do not know Lucy," Mosely answered; "but I suppose she is not living. Probably no one but Mr. O'Donnell could have answered that question, and he is dead. We have no trace of her beyond what you have just told me. *"Now, let me say that you have given me very import- ant information, and I may want you to repeat it to your old mistress. I do not think she can resist such evidence. 1 will tell you, however, when to do this. In the mean- time, let no one know what you have communicated, or what has passed between us." With that Lcuis' mother left, and Mosely was alone to reflect on the extraordinary and gratifying disclosures that had been made during the interview. He felt as delighted as Prosper9 did over the success of his charm to unite Mi- randa to the young duke, as he saw one thing after another working so well for the consummation of his hopes. His love had been as potent as the magician's wand in reveal- ing the dark secrets that obscured his happiness.   The Diamond Cross.      3 5 CHAPTER XXX w/OSELY lost no time in communicating to Laura the happy intelligence that he had found the nurse who had attended her mother when she was born, and who carried her, when two or three months old, accompanied by Mr. O'Donnell, to Mrs. Howard.- He said, that although the nurse did not know the name of the person with whom she left her, by Mr. O'Donnell's order, she recollected the child was called Laura. He stated minutely the conver- sation he had with Lucy, as well as what his own conclu- sions were. "No doubt, remains, my beloved Laura," he wrote, "as to who your mother was. The testimony if Louis' mother, taken with the other circumstances, sets the question at rest in my mind, and ought in yours. I shall pursue my investigations, however, not only to establish the moral certainty of your maternity, but, if possible, to produce the evidence. I believe you are convinced now, as well as my- self, but I desire to convince others, and chiefly the O'Don- nell family. Mr. O'Donnell said, when he first placed you with Mrs. Howard, you were the legitimate offspring of respectable parents, which I never doubted. And this fact I shall endeavor to prove for your satisfaction, and to place you in the position to which you are entitled. "These discoveries give an indescribable buoyancy to my hope and spirits. My soul feels superior to every obstacle. What a happy thought it is that the day is near when you will leave the sombre enclosure of the convent to become my own loved bride I The imagination never conceived, in its most felicitous dreams, a more blissful   a,,      htne Diamond Cross. prospect than that which lies before me. I would not change it for all the wealth or honors of the-world. Yes, my beloved one, you are all the world to me, and without you there would be nothing worth living for." "I intend to leave to-morrow for your dear old home, taking Lucy with me, to see if Mrs. Howard can recognize her as the nurse from whose hands she received you. I only regret that you cannot accompany me, that we might revisit together the loved spot, and live over again the de- lightfulhourswespent there. Itwas the scene of ourjoy: there my passion grew, and there I learned you loved me. There, too, I witnessed later the anguish of your soul, and felt it strike deep into my own, when we parted with but faint hope of meeting again. "Now we could return rejoicing, as at first, because our troubles are past. But if I cannot have you with me in -person, I know you will be in mind, and our thoughts will mingle over the scenes we both fondly cherish. Until we can have the happiness of a re-union where our first ac- cents of love were heard, and where the voices of nature re- sponded in sweetest tones to the language of our hearts, let us be content in the promised and not distant future." Thus Mosely addressed Laura after his conversation with Lucy, and previous to his departure for Mr. Howard's resi- dence. Then on the morrrow he started, taking the old  nurse and Louis with him. On arriving at the farm-house, he found Mr. and Mrs.  Howard at home. His visit was unexpected, but they were delighted to see him. When he told, them  what had  brought him there, with all the circumstances thaf had  transpired with reference to Laura, they wept tears of Joy. "So we may hope to see the dear child again, Mr. Mose- ly," Mrs. Howard said, joyfully.  "A blessed Providence has watched over her, and brought these things to light. Yes, there is care in Heaven for the good.   2lhe Diamond Cross.      '7' "Ah, sir, you know not what we suffered to see her in such distress, and to see her leave us and be imprisoned in a gloomy nunnery. It nearly broke my heart. She was the sweet angel that blessed us all, and made our home a paradise. Since she left, it has been desolate. The flow- ers have drooped and died, and the birds have not sung so cheerfully. She was the light and life of the house and our hearts; but with her trouble and absence came a blight that withered our joys and dried-up our hopes. And you siy, sir, we shall- see her at homef again? God be praised for His goodness. She was as our own'child ; we hardly knew she was not, and loved her as tenderly as if she had been. Does she not want to see us, too, Mr. Mosely? Yes, she cannot forget her dear mother and father, for such we were to her, though she may find her real parents. Bless you, sir, for bringing us this good news. You are truly a messenger of joy." Mosely was-moved by the affectionate words of Mrs. Howard -and responsive language of Mr. Howard. He assured them Laura loved them as tenderly as ever, and longed to return to her much cherished home. During the conversation he called Lucy into the parlor, and asked Mr. and Mrs. Howard if they remembered her as the nurse who brought Laura to their house. Mr. Howard did not; and Mrs. Howard said it was so long ago that she could not identify her positively, although she thought Lucy might resemble the nurse. In the meantime Lucy regarded Mrs. Howard with fixed- attention, and then remarked to Mosely : "This looks like the lady, sir, though she was younger then, and she would be, of course, for it is many long years since. I have not thought of it much lately; but I took particular notice at the time, as I wanted to know who was taking my young mistress's babe, and was sorry I could not learn the lady's name. Though it was not my business to pry into young master's secrets, I did think I should   308       The Diamond Cross. like to know who the lady was, for I wanted to -see the  cde r child again. I wondered then, and often since, who she could be. I remember now she had a scar on her face as this lady has. Mrs. Howard and Lucy then talked about the time of the evening when the child was taken to the former, how it was dressed, and other circumstances, as far as they could remember; and their statements and views corres- ponded so well, in general, that none of those present doubted that Laura was the child of Mr. O'Donnell's  sister. If Mrs. Howard and Lucy could be mistaken in the identity of each other, the statement of the latter that Mr. O'Donnell hiad an infant conveyed one evening to a person in the vicinity of Baltimore accorded with that of the latter as to that gentleman having brought and placed in her charge the child Laura about the same time. It would be absurd to suppose Mr. O'Donnell was engaged in two transactions so identical. Besides, both the nurse and Mrs. Howard agreed as to the name the infant had, and as to certain articles of clothing it wore and other circumstances. Mosely made a formal record of the testimony he had elicited throughout his investigations, not only to convince the O'Donnell family of Laura's relationship to them, but with a view to ulterior legal proceedings if necessary, being determined to place his betrothed in the position she ought to occupy before the world. He considered the chain of evidence as to Laura's mother well connected and perfeftly satisfactory. There were other questions, however, to solve. What became of the mother?. Was she living or dead? Was Mr. Bouverie, or Mr. Mercier, Laura's father? If so, where was Miss O'Donnell married to him? Could the proof of their marriage be found? and why were they separated?  These were the problems that occupied his thoughts, and   The Diamond Cross.      309 of which he intended to find an explanation, if possible. But neither Mr. and Mrs. Howard nor Lucy could assist him in this; and it was doubted if Mrs. O'Donnell could. He could form no definite plan, therefore, for his fuiture re- searches, and rather depended upon accidental and subse- quent developments, as most hopeful persons do, for assist- ince. Under this state of the matter, and being content -with what he had accomplished so far, his mind was at rest for the time on the subject. In the conversation that ensued between Mosely and Mr. and Mrs. Howard with reference to the change that had taken place at their residence, to Laura's absence, to the trouble that had been brought upon all of them, and to the cause of these painful events, the sister and nephew of Mr. Howard, Mrs. Sharp and her son, were mentioned. It was observed that oftentimes the anger of people, and that which is designed to produce evil, is turned by Providence into a blessing. This was shown in the conduct of Mrs. Sharp and in the consequences that followed. Her vindictive exposure of the secret that Laura was not the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Howard, which caused so much distress at first, had led to the discoveries hereto- fore mentioned. Her anger resulted in evolving important facts, by which, probably, the happiness of those she wished to injure would be secured.     She, too, had felt pangs of maternal grief since she de- stroyed the peace of her brother's home. Mosely learned from Mrs. Howard that the spoiled son, whom Mrs. Sharp desired Laura to marry, and who,was the idol of his mother, had been killed in a rowdy fracas in Arkansas. He got into a quarrel over a gambling table, and flourish- ed his bowie knife with the characteristic bravado of such fast young men of the Southwest, when he met his fate from the hand of a man more stern and desperate than himself. Thus the hope and pride of his foolish mother, who had   no love or pity for any other person in the world, was cut off by an untimely and shocking death. After that she went to live on the limited means to which his extravagance and her own folly had reduced her, among strangers in a village of Tennessee, unpitied and unrespected. How mysterious are the ways of Providence. The his- tory of individuals and communities throughout all periods shows that the retributive hand of justice follows the evil- doer. It may not be seen at all times, and it may not strike immediately; but it will punish in some way or other. The laws of the moral world are inflexible, and cannot be evaded. Whether punishment is the immediate consequence of an evil deed, in the affliction of the body or remorse of the mind, or follows through a chain of cir- cumstances dependent upon or resulting from the act, con- science will make the application. Events or things which to the human mind seem to have no 'connection, are often connected, though remotely, and produce consequences years or ages after their occurrence or existence. A malignant deed, though unpunished by men, or so se- cret that it is not known, will nevertheless demoralize the soul, render it less capable of enjoyment, and lead to fur- ther evil and remorse. Frequently it is attended with visible results, but if not, its stain and sting will remain and fester the heart. Then, that Almighty mind which pervades all space, which created and sustains myriads of worlds and the countless myriads of living things, with all their wonderful and complex organizations, and which numbers the hairs of our heads and knows our thoughts-that Al- mighty Being touches the springs of human action, and makes them vibrate more easily than an electrician the magnetic wire, changing the current of our mental impres- sions to suit his own purpose and the harmonious govern- ment of the world. Every secret, or the most minute thing or circumstance, is as vividly present to the compre- hensive mind of God as the form and motion of this globe   and the spheres of the universe. He brings the evil de- signs of men to naught, and afflicts them with their own wicked purposes. He holds the scales of justice, and re- wards all in due time according to their works. Mosely was sorry to hear of the fate of Sharp and grief of the mother; although they had indulged unkind feelings for him. "It is the will of God," he said, "I hope the unfortunate man has been forgiven, that his mother may become a better woman, and that the affliction may prove a blessing to her and those related to her." As soon as he was alone, Mosely left the house to revisit those places'where he and Laura walked and sat together, listening to the charm of each other's voice. He wished to recall those happy hours to his memory, and indulge his imagination in visions of the past and future. The garden, which had been solely under the care of Laura, in which she took great pleasure, and which was a charmingspot, had lost its beauty. It seemed to have de- clined as her happiness had, and fade away when she de- parted, as if the flowers were conscious of her grief and absence. The bower where he told his love and learned that he was loved ; where' his heart was thrilled *With joy as she placed her hand in his, silently confessing what ~she could not express, was dilapidated and choked with weeds. But not so his passion: that grew stronger with-time and acquired new life under the changes of fortune. He re- gretted to see the garden which had been the priddl of Laura, and the flowers she had planted and tended -ith- her own hand, withered and, dying, but the place was not less dear to him. The murmuring sound of the babbling stream which ran near the house fell upon his ear, and he turned to listen to its music, and to watch the waters dance over the rocks in their course, as he and Laura had often done before. These were sweet to his memory, and harmonized Nxfith the happy temper of his mind.   The pendant vines and   3 x2       et Diamond Cross. branches of trees that grew by the side of the brook bent down, in places, to kiss its joyous and pellucid water; and then, at times, the swift current leaped up playfully to em- brace the more retiring foliage, leaving its crystal drops suspended on each leaf. Wild flowers of various hues raised their beautiful heads or hung in garlands amidst the bright green shrubs and trees, to crown the charming scene. The birds fluttered for joy and sang in responsive melody to the inspiring music beneath them. Gay butter- flies, in brightest colors, floated through the air, and the honey bee, revelling in the warm rays of the sun, hummed in chorus to the harmonious voices of nature. All crea- tion seemed animated with gladness, and Mosely's heart swelled in unison with the universal joy. "This earthly paradise," Mosely said, musingly, "might properly be called the Happy Valley. Such it was to my dear Laura. Here, enbosomed in these mountains, away from the turmoil and corruptions of the world, is the proper home of peace, virtue and contentment. Here were formed the mind and tastes of my beloved; here she grew up in the bloom of health and beauty; here she learned to love nature and adore the Creator; and here I found my heart's resting place, the idol of my soul, and the hap- piness I had long sought. It is a hallowed spot to me. Every outline of it and every object in it will live in my memory forever. Oh, happy thought, that she, my well be- loved, will return here with me to enjoy again these de- lightful scenes and to renew our former joys. Yes, I be- lieve that the same Providence which first directed my steps to this dear place, and has brought us thus far through the evil days of trouble, will give us the desire of our hearts, and tlat we shall return united to the cher- ished home of her childhood."   7ie Diamond Cross.      3 3 CHAPTER- XXXI. UP to the time Mosely visted Laura at the convent, she had no idea who her mother was. She had not imagined Mr. O'Donnell was her uncle and Mrs. O'Don- nell her grandmother; but after she heard of the discover- ies that had been made, she was fully satisfied these persons held such relationship to her. She had told the Lady Su- perior, who was much attached to her, the history of her life, and the cause of the trouble which induced her to enter the convent, with all her fears and hopes as to the future; and that good lady sympathized with her in her distress. After Mosely left, she informed tfiis religious friend what she had learned relative to her parentage. The Lady Superior manifested much interest in the story, and at its conclusion remarked, "I remember a lady of the O'Donnell family of Maryland entered the Convent of the Sacred Heart, at New York, many years ago, and took the veil as Sister Agnes. Your history, my child, is remarkable, and makes me desirous to serve you. I do not know what particular family she belonged to, or if she be living. But I can ascertain, or you can go the convent, if you think proper, and I would give you a letter of intro- duction. While we should not concern ourselves or inter- fere with things of the world, it is our duty to do good, and in this case I shall be happy to aid you as far as I am able and my religious obligations will permit." "Bless you, dear lady, for your kindness," Laura said. "You cause my heart to swell with hope that I may yet see my mother. Your words are like precious rain falling upon the parched earth. I have iever had, since I learned Mrs. Howard was not my parent, an indescribable longing   3 14      The Diamond Cross. to see her who brought me into the world; and the possi- bility that she of whom you speak may be my mother re- lieves in a measure the void in my soul. Heaven grant she may be alive, and that I may find herat the convent. I accept your kind offer, and, by your permission, will not delay my journey to learn if my hope may be realized." As soon as she was prepared and a proper person was found to accompany her, Laura went to New York. The letter of introduction she carried procured for her an affec- tionate reception at the nunnery antd the kind attentions of those in authority there. She explained the object of her visit, and inquired if sister Agnes was there, and if she could see her. The Superior, and one of the sisters who was present, listened attentively to her statement, and then said some- thing aside in a low voice to each other, which she could not hear. After a few minutes, the former turned to her and said, "Your story and filial love, dear child, are very touching; but I must ask a little time before answering your questions. I see you are a boarder with the sisters at Georgetown, and an apartment will be assigned to you here while you stay, if you desire it." Laura accepted the offer, and retired with an anxious heart to wait the result of her inquiries. It was a trying moment to her sensitive feelings. Her bosom throbbed with anxiety. She was more agitated by the suspense than she would have been by disappointment, for the disap- pointed learn to be resigned to their fate. Trembling with emotion she fell on her knees, and raising her eyes and heart to Heaven, implored God to be merciful and lead her to the discovery of her mother. "Oh, why this delay?" she said to herself. "Why could they not tell me at once if she is alive or here? My heart beats fearfully and refuses to be still. What does it for- bode? and why am I so agitated? Shall I see her? and how long must I remain in this suspense?"   The Diamond Cross.       315 As a pent up flood, when violently disturbed, tursts the barrier that restrained it, and finds relief by a copious flow, so the full heart is alleviated by tears. Lauri, unable to control her feelings, wept till she became mot e calm and composed. Still her mind was filled with buv one thought -her mother. She anxiously listened to the sound of every footstep in the corridor, hoping each one might be that of the Superior or a messenger for her. -After wait- ing some time in this state of mind, she heard a gentle tap at the door. Her heart leaped as she tremulously arose and invited the visitor in. The person who entered was one of the sisters of the convent, but not one of those Laura thought she had seen before; though her features could not be seen distinctly. Laura hoped it was her mother, and with that feeling desired to embrace her; when the nun said : "Miss Howard, I believe?" in a gentle tone, but in a formal manner. "So I am called, and that I believed, till lately, was my name," Laura answered. Then eagerly inquired, " and are you sister Agnes?" "No; I am not," she replied; "but sister Agnes is here, and desires to see you. I will conduct you to her; but must first inform you that she is very ill and feeble, and any great excitement might be dangerous. She under- stands the object of your visit, and, though in doubt as to who you are, she is too much agitated already." Laura followed the nun, with a full heart and trembling steps, to the room of the invalid. As they entered, sister Agnes raising her head with difficulty, fixed her gaze on them, and beckoned them to approach the bedside. Her emaciated appearance and extreme feebleness would have touched the heart of any one; but Laura, thinking the death-like figure might be her mother, could not restrain her feelings. Her eyes swam in tears and dimmed her sight, and a sensation of   3I$o       ice -liamond Cross. giddiness ran through her frame. She drew near the sick nun, and would have said something, but her voice was choked in the effort. She sank down on her knees weep- ing, covering her face with her hands, and resting her head on the bed. The poor invalid, too, was deeply affected. She placed tler hand soothingly on Laura's head, and said, in sweet but scarcely audible accents, "Be calm, dear child ; wipe away those tears, and lift up your eyes to mine, that I may look at your face." Laura raised her head and looked upon the wan form before her with mingled feelings of pity, doubt, hope and fear. The pale and attenuated face, sunken eyes and sil- vered hair bore little or no resemblance to the portrait of her mother. In a few moments a crowd of thoughts rushed through her mind. Could she be mistaken? Had her eagerness inspired false hopes? Was there ever any ground for hope beyond what her desire had made? Or could twenty years of convent life, grief and sickness so change a person? At the same time these thoughts were rapidly passing through her mind, the nun gazed at her with fixed attention. Her pale countenance lighted up with new life and beamed with tenderness, as if Heaven had made a revelation to her. "Oh, what is this," she muttered, "that makes my bosom swell and gives me fresh strength? Am I deliri- ous, or is it a divine impulse? Can nature convey truth through our impressions or instincts, or am I tempted in my last hours by false hopes to draw my thoughts from God?" She took Laura's hand in hers and said, "Bend down your face to mine and kiss me, dear child, and then tell me your history."            - Laura kissed her fondly, which seemed to send a thrill of joy to her heart. Then she added, "1 have heard a part of the story, though I could not understand it well, and know not what to think. But tell me first if you have O   ) The Diamond Cross.     3r7 anything as a remembrance of your mother-anything that belonged to her." "Yes," Laura replied, "I have had this from my child- hood, and Mr. O'Donnell said it was my mother's," hand- ing her the diamond cross she wore. Sister Agnes looked at this attentively; then rising -as well as she could, and holding out her arms, said, A"Come to my bosom, my own dear child-you are my daughter- my sweet babe-my Laura!"She bathed the face of her long lost child with kisses and tears. Laura, in her deep, emotion, could only say, "My mother, my own mother!" as she clung to and wept over her parent. When the soul is profoundly disturbed, the force of nature becomes exhausted, and quiet follows as a calm succeeds the violent perturbation of the elements. Thus it was with Laura and her mother. Neither broke the silence that reigned while their tears flowed. But the mental excite- ment was too trying for the feeble condition of the latter, and she sank exhausted on the pillow, uttering in a faint voice, "God be praised. I have seen her before I die." Laura was alarined when she heard these words, and saw the very weak state of her mother, who really looked as if she might be dying. "Oh, mother dear, do not die," she said with suppressed sobs. "Live to bless your child. Live to know the depth and blessing of your daughter's love. Alas, she hears me not! Why did J come to cause her death? She was not able to bear this ordeal. Oh, gracious Heaven, restore her 1" In such words Laura expressed the aguish of her soul; but her mother did not hear her, for she had fainted and was lying like one dead. The nun who conducted Laura to the room entered at that moment and applied restora- tives to sister Agnes, comforting at the same time the dis- tressed daughter, and advising her to retire to her own apartment till her mother could recover and be able to see her again.   Laura left the beside reluctantly, though she understood the necessity of withdrawing, for the invalid needed repose, and any further excitement might have proved fatal. She went to her own apartment and remained there under the most painful anxiety, inquiring frequently-about the con- dition of her mother. After some hours she had the satis- faction to hear of her partial recovery. With this cheering- information, and being fatigued, both mentally and bodily, she retired for the night, hoping that in the morning her mother would be sufficiently restored to call for her again. But her mind had little rest, for in her sleep it was agi- tated by fitful and incoherent dreams. She thought she was a child again and in her mother's arms, and that some one came and snatched her away while she screamed in agony. Then she saw the pale, cold form of her mother lying dead as she wept over it. Mr. O'Donnell appeared to rise from the depths of the ocean, dripping with its briny water, and gazing at her with a sorrowful counte- nance. Mosely stood by her side speaking words of com- fort. Then she fancied she was in the country at her loved home, the sun shining -brightly over her, the flowers look- ing gay and shedding their delicious fragrance, and the birds caroling in sweetest music. Sadness and joy came in turns, showing the disturbed state her mind had been and was in between fear and hope, the painful and happy realities of life and the doubts and promises of the future. In the morning she was summoned to her mother, who expressed a wish to see her and who was composed and well enough to bear the interview. When Laura was entering the room sister Agnes raised her eyes and motioned to her daughter to come near and embrace her. "1 am better and tranquil now," she said, as she kissed Laura. "Sit by my side and tell your history which you commenced yesterday. The violent conflict of my feelings has passed away with the first surprise, and my mind has   Thie ianmond C'oss.     319 become more calm by reflecting on the reality of your pres- ence and the happiness of seeing you. I perceive the goodness and providence of God in restoring you to me, my beloved child; and I ought not to be unduly excited." Laura told her mother that she had been brought up by Mr. and Mrs. Howard, and believed they were her parents; of Mr. O'Donnell's paternal carte over her ; of the manner in which she discovered she was not the offspring of Mr. and Mrs. Howard; of the accidental revelations with re- gard to Mr. Bouverie, and Mr. O'Donnell's visit to Louis- iana and France in consequence ; of the loss of her dear/ friend at sea, and her grief aid -despair; of her engagement to Mosely, and her motive for entering the convent; of the subsequent disclosures heretofore mentionedjin this narrative relative to her parentage ; with all the incidents and details of these events up to the time she found her mother. "It is all true, my own dear child," her mother said, fondly embracing Laura, when she finished the thrilling story. "' By God's blessing your filial piety and the devo- tion of your noble lover have brought to light secrets that appeared buried in the grave. And the portrait you spoke - of, where is that?" "It is here," Laura replied, taking it from the case and handing it to her, for she had not forgotten to carry the precious souvenir to the convent. "Yes, my daughter this was my likeness," her mother remarked; "but, alas, there is no resemblance now. I gave it to your father before I was nmarried, as a token of my love. Ah, cruel man, to deceive me! But, he is dead; and I hope God has forgiven him, as I do. And it was found at his residence? Did you say he had no wife in Louisiana? He changed his name to Bouverie?. He cherished this portrait as a relic of her he loved? Oh, what a strange fatality attended him, too. Sorrow, I hope, washed his guilt away. Time, and devotion to our holy   320       The Diamond Cross. religion, had almost obliterated it from my memory; and I do not wish to think or speak of it now." "But I have a duty to perform to you, my child, painful though it be to recall the past. I would not defer doing that, as I am very ill and my days on earth may be few. Providence has directed your steps hither to learn from my lips a sad history; but hear it, my daughter, in charity. Though your mother may have wronged you, and your father both of us, be forgiving. None of us are without faults, and as we look to Heaven for forgiveness, so ought we to forgive. It is my duty to inform you of the circum- stances of my acquaintance with and marriage to your fa- ther, Mr. Mercier, the cause of our separation, and the motives for giving you up to my brother and entering the convent. Listen, then, my beloved child,.to my words." She paused a few moments to recover strength, for the exertion of conversing taxed her feeble frame, and then resumed : "While I was visiting friends in New York-and I was about your age then-I met at a private ball a very hand- some gentleman, a Frenchman, who was introduced to me as Mr. Mercier. His appearance and manners were cap- tivating, and his conversation was cultivated and fascinat- ing. He paid me special attention during the evening, and before I left asked permission to visit me. I gave him my address and he called to see me the next day. He repeated the visit frequently, which gratified me greatly, for he was my beau ideal of an elegant gentleman. In truth I was in love before I was well aware of it. After a short acquaintance he declared he loved me. I did not doubt it, and his ardent language increased and strengthened my own passion. We were lovers, and ever after met each other as such.                    ! "He was a merchant in New York, and reputed to be wealthy. I could have no doubt of his position, and, per- haps, did not think much about it. I was introduced to   zhe Diamond Cross.      32  him properly, and his associations were respectable. But the friends of my family, with whom I was staying, did not cordially approve of him as my lover. They said they thought I ought not to marry a foreigner; cautioning me not to indulge love for a person with whom I was so little acquainted, and who was unknown to my relatives. But all this had no effect, except to make me more devoted to him who had won my heart. I wrote to my father and and mother, informing them of my love for Mr. Mercier, with everything relative to him and the manner in which we became acquainted, and fAked their approval of our courtship. They peremptorily refused, and desired me to return home immediately. In fact, they had formed a matrimonial alliance for me, in their own minds, with a per- son I did not like. I was aware of this, and knew from the proud and firm character of my parents, after I received their letter, they would never consent to a marriage with my lover. "I was proud and self-willed, too, and was deeply affected at what I considered an unkind answer to my affectionate and earnest appeal. I told Mr. Mercier what had occurred, and that it was my duty to return home. He was greatly distressed as well as myself, and said he would go at once to my parents to satisfy them of his position, and ask them for my hand. He did go, but returned, as I feared he would return, with an inflexible refusal. "My heart was racked with conflicting feelings of love, duty, affection for my family, and pride. At one moment I thought I would tear myself away from my lover if it broke my heart ; at another, I felt that to be impossible. In this state of mind Mr. Mercier implored me to marry him ; said my father and mother would forgive me when they found opposition useless, and that he could not live without me. His looks and manner expressed more than his impassioned words, and I feared the consequences of separation. I yielded to his entreaties and the impulse of my own heart.   322       The Diamond Cross. I had little hope of my family becoming reconciled, conse- quently it was a severe trial to my feelings. But Mr. Mer- cier was all the world to me, and I believed my happiness was bound up in his. Had my parents been tender and persuasive, as he was, I might have returned to them; but their peremptory harshness wounded my pride, tended to make me obstinate, and decided my fate. "It was necessary to consummate our purpose without delay, as I expected every hour some one of my relations, and probably my father, would come for me. We left New York immediately and secretly, to be married at Detroit. Mr. Mercier chose this place because he was acquainted with a priest there, and because it was on the Canada fron- tier, to which we might have passed had we been pursued. We were accompanied by a Mr. Henri Bertin, a friend of Mr. Mercier, and a friend of mine, Miss Ella Lee, who I understand became Mrs. Ward afterwards. They were both from New York, and I believe Mrs. Ward continued to reside in that city. I mention this particularly, as you may want to know hereafter. Father Moreau, a French priest, married us in the presence of Miss Lee and Mr. Bertin. We returned to New York in the course of a week when I wrote to my parents, informing them that I was a bride, and begging them to forgive me and permit me to visit them. They were very angry, and said they would never see me again; that I had disgraced the family, and married a foreign adventurer. I wrote again ; but my letter remained unanswered. To be cut off from all my relations was very painful ; but I found consolation in the love of my husband. M- y ex- pectations were all realized in Mr. Mercier; and, apart from the sorrow I felt at being discarded by my family, my life was a blissful one. "Five months I drank the cup of wedded joy. Then,   ' alas! it was dashed from my lips, and I never tasted it i more.                        -  r    The Diamond Cross.       3 23 "One day, when Mr. Mercier was absent from home, a handsome young woman came to my residence, in  great distress of mind, and said I had married her husband. I thought she was crazy, and felt alarmed in her presence. Soon, however, I found she was sane and in earnest. My agony was intense. I fell back on the sofa insensible at the idea of such a thing being possible, though I could not believe it. 'When I recovered I found this woman still be- fore me, and bathed in tears. I would have left her, dread- ing to hear more, but she was gentle, and addressed me in. sorrowful and apologetic language. I nerved myself as well as I could to hear her story, supposing that she was laboring under some mistake. "But she produced sufficient evidence to show. that if Mr. Mercier was not her husband, he ought to have been. The letters and other documents she held proved she was a person of respectable connections; that he had addressed 'her with a view to marriage, and had promised toh make her his wife. Under this promise she had yielded to his solicitations and passion, and had become a mother. At the time he avowed his love for me hei was declaring he loved her. When I became his bride he promised still to make her his wife. She had been removed to a distant place to give birth to his child and hide her disgrace. It was only when he wrote proposing to make a settlement upon her and her offspring, that she discovered his faithless- ness. In the agony of disappointed love and shame, she came to New York to see him and to claim the performance of his vows. She then heard for the first time of his mar- riage. In her excitement, and, perhaps, hardly knowing what she did, she cameto the house to see him. Not find- ing him at the house, she asked for me, and made this start- ling revelation. I could -no longer doubt, for his letters and the dates of them corroborated her statement." "Oh, the torments I endured! They are indescribable. I felt as if the earth trembled and rocked beneath me. I   ,24       The Diamond COoss. could not stand upon my feet. In the delirium of my brain, I imagined the sun was withdrawn, the earth envel- oped in impenetrable darkness, and the end of all things had come. I knew not what happened during- this parox- ysm of consternation and violent emotion. But when con- sciousness returned, I found myself in my bedroom, lying on my bed, and Mr. Mercier by my side. All I had heard rushed to my mind again when I saw him, and created a feeling of repulsion. H attempted to embrace and soothe me; but his touch, which had once thrilled me with the electric power of love, was loathsome as any foul thing would have been, and I turned away angry and broken- hearted. "He appeared more grieved than surprised, for he was aware of the interview between myself and the victim of his perfidy. When I told him what I had heard, he en- deavored to excuse and palliate his conduct, and seemed astonished that I should look with such disgust upon what lie deemed a foible or weakness, and which the world gen- erally regarded as pardonable. After the most painful struggle, I resolved not to live with him; indeed my pride, sense of honor, and repugnance made it impossible. I informed him, in a firm manner, of the resolution I had made, and that I would consent to a divorce in order that he might do justice to the poor creature he had deceived. He pleaded, remonstrated, wept, and was angry in turns, but all without avail; my determination could not be shaken. "Thus, my child, in the morning of life, when the heart was fresh and glad as nature in spring-time, was my joy and hope suddenly cut off. In one sad hour, the roseate hues that decked the horizon of my existence became clouded, never to appear any more. Ah, never more was I to taste the joys of life. The beautiful illusion had passed away forever, and left me desolate. Friends, lover, husband, all were gone. I had but one blessed consola-   T he Diamond Cross.      325 tion left, and that was in our holy religion. To that I turned with a longing soul, knowing God would not deceive me or cast me from Him. "I wrote to my brother, who loved me dearly, and who was the only one of my family who had not entirely desert- ed me, informing him of the lamentable change in my situ- ation, and requesting him to come immediately to New York. 'He came without loss of time, and I related to him all that had occurred. In my distress he forgot my folly, and breathed not a word of reproach. His noble soul was moved only by fraternal love and compassion for me and indignation -against my husband. I could hardly restrain him from taking summary vengeance on Mr. Mercier, but I prevailed, happily, and prevented public scandal. Under my brother's protection I left thowretched- man, never to behold him again. I heard, two or three months after, through my brother, that Mr. Mercier had settled up all his business in the city and left for some unknown place. "I went to a house in a retired quarter, where neither Mr. Mercier nor any of my acquaintances could find me, and there lived till I gave birth to you, my daughter. In the meantime my father died and my mother was unrelent- "ng. I loved the world no more, and found peace in reli- !gion. I resolved to devote the remainder of my days to the service of God, and told my brother of my intention to enter a convent. He was greatly distressed, and endeavor- ed to dissuade me ; but my resolution was irrevocable. He continued near me, as a protector and comforter, till the day I bade adieu to the world and all in it. ," When the time of my iccouchment drew near, he went for my old nurse Lucy to attend me in my sickness. All the dear, faithful woman narrated to Mr. Mosely, and as you have communicated it to me, is true. She was with me \when you were born, and she bore you from me, in 'com- pany with my brother, when you were between two, and three months old.   3 2 U     j He L/a11zona cross. "To part with you, my sweet babe, afflited me sorely. At times, and particularly at the last moment, I almost re- lented of my purpose. But my brother promised to be a father to you, to watch over your tender years, to educate and provide for you, and to place you only with those who would nouiish and love you. I knew he would perform more than he promised; and I believed Heaven would protect and bless you. Great as my trial was, and God only knows what I suffered, these thoughts alleviated my anguish. Finally, I summoned courage enough to suffer you to be taken away. My eyes followed you, as if they would be strained from their sockets, till dimmed by tears, and I could see you no longer. I called you back, but my voice was not heard. I fell down on my knees with my face in the direction you took, and implored Heaven to bless and guard you. Your sweet image was imprinted on my mind, and remains engraved on the tablet of my mem- ory to this day. "The last and dearest tie that bound me to the world was severed. My darling babe and much loved brother had gone beyond recall. 1 came immediately to the con- vent, where I made it a rule that I would isolate myself so completely from the world, and be so entirely devoted to the services of God, that I would never see or communicate with either again. I loved you, my child, and my brother, none the less; but God required this sacrifice, that my mind might not be distracted, and that thereafter I might give Him all my heart. "My lamented brother I never saw again, and did not think I should ever see you. But I perceive the hand of Providence has directed you hither, after twenty years of separation, when I am about to depart to a better world, in order that justice may be vindicated, and that you may receive a mother's blessing before she dies. "Now, my beloved child, I have spoken beyond my strength, and am exhausted." She said in conclusion, I   The Diamond Cross.       327 would only ask you to forgive your mother, to forgive your father, and every one who may wrong you; for we all need mercy; and 'God will forgive those who are forgiving." With these words on her lips she sank on the pillow, weary and faint, showing, as she said, she had taxed her strength to the utmost to finish her sad story.     ."  e   328       The Diamond Cross. CHAPTER     XXXII. TO unburden the mind of a load that presses upon it, especially when the weight has been felt for years, to those we love or who are chiefly interested in us, affords sweet relief. It is the philosophy of the injunction to con- fess our faults one to the other and of the religious confes- sional. It satisfies the conscience and brings peace to the troubled spirit, so it was with Laura's mother, who, after revealing to her child the secret that had dwelt in her memory for twenty years, fell into a gentle sleep, and showed by the sweet contented expression of her counte- nance a 'happy repose of mind. Laura sat by the bed-side motionless, fearing to disturb the slumbers of the invalid, and watched her with tender care. Inexperienced in cases of sickness, she thought the vitality her mother had shown, and her placid rest, were fa- vorable symptoms of recovery, and was more hopeful. But these were like the flickering of a lamp when the oil that gives it life is drying up, which flashes and sinks successively / until the flame is extinguished ; and as any disturbance tends only to shorten its life, the excitement and mental effort of the feeble nun was hastening her to the grave. While tenderly watching her parent, Laura pondered over all she had heard. Although gratified in having found her mother, and in discovering that she was neither a found- ling nor illegitimate, the history of her mother's sorrow and father's conduct distressed her. The emaciated and death- like form before her brought tears to her eyes. "Forgive you, poor dear sufferer," she said softly, as she bent over and gazed at her mother, recalling the last words   T he Diamond Cross.      329 the afflited woman spoke, "Yes, if there be anything for which you should ask that; but there is nothing. Your grief was overwhelming; you knew your child would be well provided for, and tenderly brought up ; and God called you to his service that you might be prepared for heaven. Yes, it was the will of Providence, and I -blame you not. As to my father, he is dead; his sins should be remember- ed no more. He is in the hands of the Almighty; and we may hope a life of repentance and atonement after you left hint obtained mercy for him. Oh, that the same graci- oust Providence that directed me hither would restore your health, my dear suffering mother, that I might be a com- fort to you, and your life a blessing to me." As she was cogitating thus, sister Agnes awoke. She slept but a short time, and complained of being in great pain. "I feel I have only a short time to live, my child!" she muttered feebly. ' I wish to 'see -my mother before I die, that she may know from my lips you are her grand- daughter. Send for her, then, before my eyes are closed forever. I will spare you a while from my side to attend to this and to give you time for the rest you must need." Laura witnessed the suffering and heard the despairing words of her mother with a heavy heart, and she left the chamber mournfully to obey the injunction given to her. She wrote immediately to Mrs. O'Donnell, informing her of all that had occurred at the convent, mentioning the dy- ing condition of her mother, and requested that lady to come without delay. The Superior wrote the same time at the desire of sister Agnes, and despatched a messenger with the letters to Maryland. Nor did Laura neglect communicating to Mosely the facts attending her journey to New York, and the cause of it, the manner in which she found her mother, and the cir- cumstances relating to that discovery and her mother's condition, as heretofore mentioned. "Strange concatenation of events!" she wrote. "They   330       The Diawm   Cross. bringme joy and sorrow, at the same time. But I must not complain, for such is the lot of humanity. My mind is at ease with regard to my parentage; I have seen my mo- ther, and I know who was my father. The longings of my heart are satisfied, and the barrier to my future happiness is removed. For this I am thankful; and the more so because I am indebted to your love and labors, dear Charles, for these things. But then my mother's griefs be- come my own. When I think of what she who brought me into the world has suffered, and still suffers; when I look upon her sorrowful and attenuated face, her silver hairs showing premature old age, and the cause of these; and when I reflect that she has but a few hours to live and I shall see her no more, my soul is exceeding sad. Still amidst this conflict of emotions, I have the great consola- tion to know that you, in whom all my hopes of happiness. are centred, will remain with me, as the polar star remains when the other stars sink beneath the horizon and pass out of sight. With this I may learn to be resigned to the afflict- ing dispensations of Providence, and be grateful for so much happiness that is left me." Sister Agnes became worse every hour, and it was evi. dent her end was fast approaching. But death often spares those he has long marked as his victims to linger on the verge of the grave, while he cuts off others in the prime and vigor of life suddenly. ' With her, life ebbed as the waters of a slow and gentle river ebb, scarcely perceptible, but always declining. On the third day after the messenger left for Mrs. O'Don- nell, that lady arrived at the nunnery. The astonishment with which she read Laura's and the Superior's letters, in- forming her that her daughter was living still, and a nun in the Convent of the Sacred Heart, near New York, subsided as the fact became realized in her mind. Although she never heard her daughter was dead, she did not doubt it up to that time.   The Diamond Cross.       33 X None of the O'Donnell amily, except young Mr. O'Don-, nell, knowing what became of Louisa after she separated from her husband, and so many years having passed since then, Mrs. O'Donnell considered her daughter was not living. That idea was fixed in'her mind up to the time she received the letter calling her to New York. When the fact was communicated to her, and she pondered over it, she was surprised at-hrself for having come to such a conclusion without any grouhds or reason, especially when she reflected that her daughter was not old, and had been healthful- and full of life. Time had worn away her unforgiving hardness of heart toward her daughter; and she had long since repented of it. The tender feelings of a mother were revived as she proceeded to the convent. Laura, weeping and looking pale with grief and constant watching by the side of her mother, met her as she entered. Mrs. O'Donnell was deeply moved, and took Laura to her arms, saying, "Come to your grandmother, dear child, for I now know you are Louisa's daughter. My heart would have told me so before, but I resisted its impulse, not be- lieving it possible. Pardon me, then, and love me, for you are the child of my long lost daughter." These affectionate words touched Laura, and she em- braced her grandmother. "But those tears and that sad countenance forbode, I fear, what I dread to hear," resumed Mrs. O'Donnell. "Is your mother yet living? May I hope to see her before she dies?" "She is alive,"- Laura replied, but that is all I can say. They tell me she cannot live many hours. She has asked several times for you, and seems to struggle with death that she may not depart before seeing you. I left her a short time since, and she was more composed then than she had been. I think she was under the influence of an opiate given to alleviate her pain. The doctor wished her not to   332       The Diamond Cross. be disturbed while in that state of repose. But we will see him, and when he permits we can enter the chamber." As soon as the doctor gave permission they went to the room of the sick. He remarked, however, that she could not live long, and that her life hung upon a thread which might be broken by the least excitement. Laura approached the bed first, and when she saw her mother was conscious of her presence, she bent down and whispered softly, in order to prevent a sudden surprise or agitation, "I have good news to tell you, dear mother;" and then paused to see the effect. Sister Agnes raised her eyes, and made an effort to turn her head, but was too feeble. She made a slight motion, however, indicative of her consciousness of what was said, and desire to hear what her daughter meant. Laura added, in gentle tones, "Your mother has arrived." "Ah!" she said very faintly, endeavoring again to raise her head. "Let me see her.'" When Mrs. O'Donnell saw the dying condition of her daughter, her heart melted, and she approached the bed sobbing and saying, "Oh, why was I so cruel? Why did I not forgive her? Oh what a wreck is here of my beauti- ful childl It is I who have shortened your days, my daughter-my unkindness that has brought you to prema- ture old age and an early grave." Sister Agnes saw the anguish she was in, and her sunken eyes were moistened by filial, tenderness. Her lips moved as if she would have said something, but the sounds were inarticulate. She raised her hand slightly and with diffi- culty, indicating a desire to take the hands of her mother and Laura in hers, motioning to Laura at the same time to draw near. Both Mrs. O'Donnell and Laura bent down and kissed her, and extended their hands in obedience to her wish. She took the hand of her daughter and placed it in that of her mother; then raised her eyes to heaven, and muttered a prayer. She struggled to speak, but was   The Diamond Cross.       333 unable for a few moments, the effort seeming to try her re- maining strength too much. Finally she found utterance, as if Heaven had granted her power to say what she desir- ed , and in the feeblest voice she said, looking at her mo- ther and daughter alternately as she spoke, 'tMy child- mother. God bless both." These were the last words she spoke. She drew her breath convulsively for a minute, closed her eyes, and expired-- "Like one that draws the drapery of his couch About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams." The gentle and chastened spirit left its earthly taberna- cle, with scarcely a struggle, to find that rest for which twenty years of pious devotion had prepared it. The two mourners sat watching the last minutes of the dying nun in painful solicitude. They knew she was on the brink of eternity, and were prepared to witness her departure. But her soul took its flight sooner than they expected; and they knew not when that moment arrived. Mrs. O'Donnell, more experienced than Laura, seeing no motion of the body and no perceptible breathing, made the usual tests to ascertain if her daughter was alive, and found death had completed his work. There is something so solemn in death, in its appear- ance, in the thought of separation forever, and in the reflection that the beautiful human body, full of life, mo- tion and intelligence, is then no more than a clod in the field. To see the eye that sparkled with joy, beamed with tenderness, or started rays of intellectual light, closed forever, -and the tongue that inspired us by the language of love or eloquence eternally silent as the grave itself, is a sad spectacle. Although we are familiar with death, know that all die, and that at every tick of the watch a soul departs, it is none the less a fearIul thing. Even when we hourly expect the death of any one, we are shocked   334       The Diamond Cross. when it arrives, so great and solemn is the change. Both Mrs. O'Donnell and Laura felt it to be so. The know- ledge that death was certain, and at hand, did not prevent poignant grief when it appeared. They wept over the lifeless form and remained by its side till their tears refused to flow and nature demanded repose. Mrs. O'Donnell and Laura remained at the convent till the last funeral rights were performed over the deceased; Laura comforting her grandmother as well as she could, and Mrs. O'Donnell consoling her distressed grand- daughter. In the meantime, Mosely arrived at New York. He left Maryland immediately he received the letter from Laura, informing him where she was and what took her there, but he was not in time to see her mother. He ap- prised her ot his arrival, and wished to know if she desired him to come to the convent. She was glad to know he was near her, and expressed a desire to see him; for who, she remarked, should be by her side at such a time if not he, who knew and tasted all her sorrows and joys, whose feelings, desires and hopes were entwined with hers, and who was the means of find- ing her mother. He proceeded to the convent accordingly, and was able to condole with- and soothe his beloved Laura. "Oh, dear Charles," she said, "my heart is sorely grieved. My poor suffering mother is no more. God has taken her to himself; and, perhaps, I ought not to grieve, for she is happy. But her life-long sorrow, her woe-worn and pitiful countenance, her premature grey hairs and de- cay, are vividly mirrored in my mind, and pierce my heart. Then her death, so soon after I found her-almost while the first maternal kiss was warm on my lips-makes me very sad. I never looked upon death before; and to see it in the person of my mother, whose blood flows in my- veins, and of whom I am a part, is a very painful sight. I   The Diamond Cross.       335 seem to have lost a part of my own existence. But for you, the sufferings I have endured within one year would render life a burden. Bear with me, then, as you have borne with and sustained me in my trouble heretofore." Mosely, while deeply sympathizing with her, spoke words of comfort -and hope, and calmed her troubled heart, for he was ever the messenger of peace to her. The day of his arrival at the nunnery was that appointed for the burial of Sister Agnes, who requested, before she died, to- be interred in the burial place: of the holy women she had lived with so long. ' He was at the interment, in company with Laura and Mrs. O'Donnell, sustaining them in their affliction. The solemn, quiet and unostentatious ceremony was very impressive, particularly to the mother and daughter of the deceased, whose sobs were a melan- choly response to the service for the dead. The funeral rites having-been performed, the mourners left, with heavy and tremulous steps, as if loth to leave the grave that had swallowed up their nearest and dearest relation. They returned immediately to Maryland, accompanied by' Mosely, where Laura took up her residence with her grand- mother. Such was the end of the once beautiful, proud, and self- willed daughter of Mrs. O'Donnell, the deceived and dis- appointed wife of Mr. Mercier, the unhappy mother of Laura, the pious Sister Agnes. Her grave may be seen with a pure white marble monu- ment near it, a plain obelisk, placed there by her daughter, on each side the base of which is sculptured in bas relief figures emblematicaof the four periods in the history of her life, and it has this inscription: "Lay her i' the earth; and from her fair and unpolluted flesh may violets spring!" ,   336       The Diamond Cross. CHAPTER XXXIII. AMONG the few effects left by Sister Agnes was the certificate of her marriage to Mr. Mercier, and several letters from that gentleman to her before and after he became her husband. These, together with the facts previously discovered, established an irrefragable chain of evidence, proving that Laura was the rightful heir to th e Bouverie estate. Mosely wrote to Lanabere, who was still in Louisiana, detailing these facts and the circumstances which had led to their development, requesting him, at the same time, to return at his earliest convenience, in order that he might show him the evidence, and that a settlement might be made with regard to the property. Such an announcement to most men, and under ordinary circumstances, would have been exceedingly disagreeable, for an estate of the value of that Mr. Lanabere's uncle left is not given up without great reluctance. There are few who would not have contested the right of the claimant, however clear, by all the means possible. Although Lanabere did not love money, and was gen- erous-minded, he received the information Mosely commu- nicated with regret. .His right to the estate appeared so perfect, his mind had become so familiar with and settled in the possession of it, and his habits of thought and life had been so completely changed in consequence, that the thought of being compelled to relinquish it and begin life anew, was unpleasant. True, his conscience never had become satisfied about holding the slave portion of the property; still, he wished to keep what he possessed, and   The Diamond Cross.       337 did not like the idea of returning to France to become a legal or a literary drudge. Besides, he was charmed with America; republican institutions, the simplicity of the form and operation of the government, the grandeur and vast expanse of the country, and its bright skies, fascinated him. Though he loved France and its beautiful capital still, he desired to live in the United States. But he did not see what he could do in this country if dispossessed of his property. He complied with Mosely's request, however, and went to meet his friend at Baltimore, resolving not to place any obstacle in the way of justice, or suffer a law suit to be commenced if it should be clear that Laura-was his cousin, and heir to the estate. But that which continued to trouble him most was the conduct of his wife. She not only refused to go with him to Louisiana, or join him there, but after he arrived scarcely corresponded with him. She wrote, twice only, and that in such a style as showed she was too much engaged in fashionable dissipation, if nothing worse, to think much of him. In fact, it was evident she had ceased to love, if she ever did love, her husband. He felt this to be very humil- iating and mortifying. Irritated thus, he was disposed at times to break with her entirely; but his good sense over- came his anger and impatience, and he waited and hoped still. When he thought of her personal charms, and of the delight he had experienced a short time previous, while she was the bride of his heart, he could not help loving her, and attributing her misconduct chiefly to the influence by which she was surrounded. While these trying circumstances soured his feelings, his friendship for Mosely remained unabated, although that gentleman might be the instrument of depriving him of his property. He was sensible and generous enough to per- ceive his friend had become accidentally an involuntary agent in the matter.   When he arrived at Baltimore he met Mosely in the same cordial manner as formerly. Mosely, too, considering how fickle fortune had tricked Lanabere about the estate, forgot everything else and received him affectionately. "You are very kind," Mosely said to him, " to come so promptly at my request, especially when the business I de- sire to see you upon cannot be agreeable. You know the cause of my agency in it, and I need not repeat that which I I have already explained. I will remark, however, that I greatly regret you are. to be the sufferer, and that some one less worthy of my esteem is not in your place." "( Well, my friend," Lanabere replied, "I am not so much a philosopher as to despise the gifts of fortune, as you have seen in my acceptance of slave property against my principles, and I confess the prospect of losing what I am possessed of, and believed I had a right to, is not pleasing. 'But I exonerate you from blame, and assure you I should have done the same as you have, had I been in your place. Should I be deprived of my property, I shall have the satisfaction to know it will go to one worthy of having it, as well as the gratification of finding a cousin, and in knowing that cousin is to be the wife of my friend. I was surprised when you spoke to me about this matter at the plantation, though I did not suppose you would make the discovery that my uncle had been married and had a legit- - imate child living. I am astonished at the strange history." Mosely produced the letters of Mr. Mercier, some of which were addressed to Miss O'Donnell while he was wooing her, and some to her as Madame Mercier, after she became his wife, all evincing the tenderness of the lover and husband; and besides these, the certificate of their marriage. Lanabere recognized at once the writing and signature of his uncle, and said he was fully convinced of their gen- uineness, and that the lady was the lawful wife of Mr. Mercier.   ThAe Diamond Cross.      339 Mosely then laid before him the record of evidence, showing that Laura was the offspring of that marriage, beginning with the registry of her baptism and the testi- mony of the nurse Lucy, and ending with the corroborative statements of her mother. "No doubt remains on my mind now," Lanabere re- marked, after examining the record and hearing Mosely, "that Laura is the legitimate daughter of my late uncle; and I will not contest her right to his estate. But were I disposed to question her claim and stand strictly upon what the law requires, I might give her a great deal ofV trouble, if not defeat her. This might become one of the most celebrated suits in the history of great civil causes. Although there be a moral certainty in the chain of evi- dence adduced, there lacks legal proof or exactness as to the identity of the child born to my uncle in wedlock, and christened Laura, with the Laura you speak of. If Mr. O'Donnell were living he could establish the fact; but it does not appear that any one else can. The nurse does not know positively to whom she gave the child, except that she remembers the scar on Mrs. Howard's face, and Mrs. Howard was not sure that Lucy was that nurse. There might have been a substitution of one child for an- other subsequently. It is true, the collateral evidence is very strong, such as- that which relates to the diamond cross, the family resemblance, the concurrence of Lucy's and Mrs. Howard's statements and recollections, the remark- able conduct of Mr. O'Donnell towards-Laura, and other circumstances, strong enough, no doubt, to convince any one; and I am not inclined to dispute either'the paternity or maternity of Laura. I only mention this to show that rights, about which there is no doubt, may be, and some- times are, successfully denied and ignored when facts can- not be established in a legal form. I am so thoroughly convinced, however, in this case, that I claim Laura for my cousin, and will give her no trouble about the property.   340       The Diamond Cross. Whenever sne shall be prepared to take possession, I shall -e ready to give it to her." "All the estate, real and personal, remains as when I received it, except the money, of which I have spent a con- siderable sum. I regret that I used the money so freely, and even imprudently; but I thought it was my own, and that I should continue to fiave a large income from the plantation and rents. I will make the most satisfactory settlement possible, and for the rest I must crave indul- gence." Mosely said that as far as he might speak for Laura, and she had authorized him to attend to the business for her, he would assure Lanabere she would be perfectly satis- fied. She did not care so much about the property as she did to have, her legal rights and status established; and it was her purpose to make her cousin a joint heir of the estate. Mr. Ellis and Mr. Dubois, the executors of Mr. Bouverie's will, were sent for and requested to bring all the documents they held relating to the estate. When they arrived the whole matter was laid before them, Lanabere informing them at the same time of his intention not to contest the claim of his cousin, and of his wish that the property should be legally transferred to her. Mr. Dubois readily acquiesced in Lanabere's proposal, not doubting that Laura was the child and heir of Mr. Bou- verie, and deeming it best to avoid a lawsuit. Mr. Ellis did not acquiesce so promptly. He saw there might be some knotty law questions raised, and a fine field for the exercise of his legal acumen and eloquence, and he gloated over the prospect. "It is an extraordinary case," he remarked, "and one that would bring out the highest professional ability. You perceive the question of identity is very complicated, and runs through the whole case. First, there is the identity of Mr. Bouverie as being the Mr. Mercier in question.   The Diamond Cross.       34 This could. only be proved apparently by the testimony of Mr. Lanabere himself or his family, should they be dis- posed to give evidence against themselves. Then there is the identity of Sister Agnes as having been formerly the wife of Mr. Mercier. Here there would be more difficulty than with regard to Mr. Bouverie; for whatever people may believe, the fact is not legally established, and, Sister Agnes' statement, upon which the claimant must, mainly rely, was not made- under oath. The most difficflt point of all for the plaintiff to get over, would be to prove -Laura Howard is the daughter of Mr. Bouverie. The circum- stantial evidence, however well connected, seemingly, is indirect, and might be set aside or invalidated., The witness the claimant must mainly rely upon is an old negro woman, whose testimony, if admissable wouldi-not have much weight in our courts. On the:; whole, I trunk we have a strong case, and one that to the legal profession would be very interesting."' Mr. Ellis would have proceeded in this manner, making a long argument; for he began to be warmed with the subject, but Lanabere interrupted him by saying he had no doubt of Laura being the heiress, and his uncle had stated in the will he was to possess the property only in case of having no heir of his oswn body. He reiterated that he had no disposition, and did not intend to question her right. Mr. Ellis yielded reluctantly, and made out, under the direction of Lanabere and Mosely, a transfer of the estate in due form, stating in the instrument the grounds and evi- dence on which Laura was recognized as the heiress. The money Lanabere had used and held, with an income of' $8,ooo a year from the estate, was made over to him at the same time. After this was completed, and all the parties were pre- sent, Mr. Ellis could not resist the inevitable impulse to make an address on the occasion. He congratulated Laura,   34a       The Diamond Cross. remarking that he was convinced she was the rightful pos- sessor of her father's property, although he seemed to op- pose her claim at first. He did so, 'he said, only because he was a guardian of the law, and wished to see the matter settled by a legal tribunal. he was perfectly satisfied, however, and hoped he might have the honor of holding the same business and friendly relation with the fair inheri- tress he had held with Mr. Bouverie and Mr. Lanabere. Both Laura and Mosely showed in their intercourse with Lanabere how much they appreciated his magnanimity. He, too, found much pleasure in the charming society and affectionate regard of his cousin and friend. He seemed more contented, also, in the possession of a fixed liberal income, which gave him less thought or uneasiness than in having a large property which gave him trouble, particularly as he was relieved of the slave property, to which he had an incurable repugnance. He would have been happy, really, but for thoughts of his wife. NZ,-   The Diamond Cross       343 CHAPTER XXXIV. AS the vibration of sound upon the air or the disturb- ance of water is prolonged through an indefinite space, or as the expression of a thought, according to some metaphysicians, may be perpetuated to eternity, so a word incidentally spoken sometimes may change the current of human events and lead to important consequences. Some- thing like this has been shown in the course of the pre- ceding history. The. mere courteous salutation of "good morhing " from one person to another, who were strangers to each other, and who met accidentally on board a steam- ship, led to conversation, and friendly intercourse, and to explanations of the object of the voyage, which were fol- lowed by the discoveries spoken of in the foregoing chap- ters. The same is being repeated continually in every-day life, though the results are not always so plainly seen. We call these occurrences accidents. But, is there not an all-see- ing Providence that touches our hearts and inspires our thoughts and purposes for wise ends? To believe this, is consonant with the wonderful and visible frame-work and operations of nature, as well as with the harmony of the moral world. The words of the Savior, that not a sparrow falls to the ground that is forgotten before God, and that the very hairs of our heads are numbered, express the most sublime philosophy ever conceived. The chain of remarkable events referred to should be regarded, there- fore, as the work of Providence. If the fate of all the actors in them should not accord with our sense of justice, or our sympathies, we may be sure that the final judgment will balance all accounts.   344       The Diamond Cross. Lanabere went once more to New York, for the'purpose of making a final effort to restore the happiness of mar- ried life, which had been seriously interrupted by the cir- cumstances heretofore mentioned. But he had little hope. His wife had not even welcomed him back from Louisiana, when he announced to her his arrival in Baltimore. Still, he was determined to do his duty, and even to concede a great deal to her to attain his object. He arrived at New York in the evening, and expected their own carriage, if not his wife, or one of the family would be at the railroad station to meet him, for he had telegraphed to inform them when he would arrive. But he, was disappointed. He felt he was slighted, and that this did not augur well for the reception he should meet with. He went directly to the residence of Mr. Risley, and found Gertrude was living with her father and mother in the same elegant st)le as when he left the city. Mr. and Mrs. Risley received him in a formal and restrained manner, as if they were embarrassed, and not particularly pleased by his presence. Gertrude, they said, was riding out, and- would return shortly. Mr. Risley confined his conversation to inquiries concerning the condition of Lan'abere's estate, the prospect of the growing crop and his own grand schemes to make millions of dollars, and Mrs. Risley to the gay, fashionable season they had enjoyed during his absence, and the rounds of pleasure she expected to enjoy. Lanabere said little, and was entirely silent about the Bouverie estate having passed from his possession, deeming it prudent not to mention that just then. In the course of an hour Mrs. Lanabere returned ; but not alone. Mr. Roland was her companion. They entered the parlor together, where Lanabere was anxiously waiting. This came like a thunderbolt, instantly withering his hopes. The very man who had alienated his wife's affections and destroyed his peace, of whom he was jealous, and with   ;hze Di'zmond Cross.      345 whom he had declined to hold any further intercourse, to appear at such a time and under such circumstances, aroused his indignation. His eye flashed with resentment and jealousy, and he could hardly restrain an outhurst of vio- lent passion. As a consequence, the meeting between him and Mrs. Lanabere was very cold. Mr. Roland approached to salute him, with characteristic nonchalence and an affected smile, saying he hoped they might be friends again. Lanabere made no reply, but turned from the pusillanimous roue in anger and disgust. This contretemps produced a disagreeable scene. All but Lanabere looked surprised and crestfallen, and were silent for some moments, Mr. Roland at the same time leaving the room. Looking at his wife and her mother and father angrily, he said, "Can it be possible you intended to insult me by bringing this man, who has destroyed my happiness, and whom I detest, into my presence? As the companion of my wife, too, when she was about to meet me the first time after a long absence? I can scarcely suppose it possible. Yet persons of your intelligence, experience and knowl- edge of the proprieties of life should know better." The daughter made no remark, but put her handkerchief to her eyes; the father expressed astonishment, and said he could not understand what it all meant; but Mrs. Ris- ley assumed an air of dignity, and spoke reproachfully. "It is dreadful," she remarked, " that my daughter should be the wife of a jealous man.  She, the dear girl, to be suspected because she attracts attention and loves society. It is positively wicked. And to think that Mr. Rowland, 7 who is such an elegant gentleman, should be treated so in my own house! It is really cruel! Foreigners do not, as he says, understand our habits and manners of life. What am I to do? I cannot turn such a dear friend out of doors to gratify the whims of any one. No, sir," addressing Lanabere directly, "1 will not. Mr. Roland is living with   346       The Diamond Cross. us, and you must be friends with him, and learn to treat my poor Gertrude more kindly." The announcement that Mr. Roland was domiciled in the family added fuel to the fire of Lanabere's jealousy and anger. "Living here!" the indignant husband said in surprise, and with emphasis; and then, after pausing to reflect a moment, added, " then we cannot live in the same house. No, Madam, that man and I cannot live under the same roof." "I suppose you would like to turn me out of my house, too, sir," she retorted quickly ; "but you shall not. Nor shall our friend leave to please you. So you may take what course you please." Saying this, she tossed her head haughtily, and walked away to the other end of the room. Mr. Risely attempted  to interpose by making some remark, but she prevented him, and reiterated her words at a distance. Lanabere rose from his seat, walked up to his wife, and said, in a serious tone and in as gentle language as he could, under the excited state of his mind, "Gertrude, I must leave your father's house and go to the hotel; and I implore you, as you value your own happiness and future welfare, to do your duty as a wife and go with me. The path of duty is the path of peace. You know I love you dearly, and would cherish you with all the kindness aid tenderness of a fond husband. I do not wish to deprie you of the society of your parents or friends ; and you would be near them. I will provide a suitable residence for you and everything you need. All I ask of you is to; give up your acquaintance with Mr. Roland and live with your husband. Any other course, and' particularly your present one, will not only make me unhappy, but will lead you inevitably to misery. Oh, let the voice of reason and returning love be your mentors." He pauzed for a reply, and seei. g tears start from her   The Diamond Cross.       347 eyes and run down her cheeks, he hoped for a moment she was relenting and would yield to his wish. She did not answer, however, but complaining of indis- position, requested permission to retire, and left him. He, too, left, with a sad and despairing heart, but not to retire in her father's house. He went to the hotel, and there brooded over his trouble. Although he was con- vinced that Gertrude no longer loved him, and was inclined to believe she never did love him much marrying him only because he was wealthy, or from persuason and an impulse of youthful admiration, the fever of his passion still raged and distracted him. The tenderness and sweetness of love had partly gone, but the excitement remained. These very disappointments and obstacles, to such a nature as his, might tend to inflame the passion temporarily. He passed the night restless and tormented. The next day he wrote to his wife and her father; to the former much in the strain of his'remarks the preceding evening, and requesting to know her decision; and to the latter asking him to come to the hotel, as he had matters- of business to arrange with him. Mr. Risley called in response to his invitation, but he received no answer from his wife, except such as her father communicated by word of mouth. This gentleman, in an evasive and indirect way, attempt- ed to make an explanation for his daughter and wife; but it was evident Gertrude had resolved, or her mother had determined for her, that Lanabere should be her husband in name only. Believing this to be the end of his efforts and association with his wife, and deeming it useless to speak of the matter again, he told Mr. Risley he desired a settlement of their business affairs. This rather surprised the Wall street stock millionaire, and he blandly confessed his inability to pay even a portion of the forty thousand dollars lent him; promising, homwever, that not only would he pay this shortly, when certain finan-   * 346      Lnte uZ(zianond Cross cial schemes he was maturing should be perfected, but that the mining and other stocks Lanabere held would be worth an immense sum in a year or two. Lanabere then informed him that he no longer possessed his late uncle's estate; that it had been transferred to the rightful heir, a legitimate daughter of Mr. Bouverie, who had lately been found, and that the annuity from the estate he had settled on Gertrude ceased with his own title. This was a stunning announcement to Mr. Risley, and he fell back in his chair like one seized with a sudden ill- ness. In fact, he and his family had lived chiefly on Ger- trude's income, and it was that which enabled them to get credit, and to live in an extravagant style beyond their means, making the world and Mr. Risley's business con- nections believe they were immensely wealthy. Lanabere explained the circumstances attending the title to and transfer of the property, much to the conster- nation and displeasure of Gertrude's father. Mr. Risley protested, swore, and blamed Lanabere; and went so far even, in his anger, as to say his daughter had been tricked and deceived, that she might have married a rich man about whose wealth there could be no doubt, and that now she would be left without anything. When he expressed himself in this manner, Lanabere arose indignant, and informed him that he could not hear such language, that he had suffered too many indignities from him and his family, and that their intercourse was closed -forever. With that Mr. Risley departed. It was the last inter- view Lanabere had with any of the Risley family. He learned subsequently, but some time after, that Mr. Risley had failed again; that the family had to leave their splendid establishment and take lodgings, and that even Mr. Roland, after having brought general scandal upon Gertrude and contributed to their ruin, had deserted them. Mr. Risley lost his recuperative Power, and could not   The Diamond Cross.       349 recover from this last shock, having worn out his friends and acquaintances, and disgusted business men by his bogus stock companies and visionary schemes. The fam- ily lived, consequently, in the most straightened and hand- to-mouth circumstances. They would have suffered privations sometimes had not Gertrude received, much to their surprise and relief, a few hundred dollars occasionally from some unknown person. Lanabere would have returned to Paris to reside, but, as he admired republican institutions, and the republic of France, which he helped to inaugurate in I848, having been effectually destroyed by Louis Napoleon, he con- cluded to remain in the United States, and take up his residence in New Orleans. The conduct of his wife broke the spell of love, and after the conflict of feelings that it occasioned was over, time, wititS soothing hand, brought relief, though he could notentirely forget her he had so passionately loved. Mosely realized a happier fate. Laura, and not the Bouverie estate, was the inestimable prize he valued, and was soon to receive. It was not a mere admiration of her great beauty that had inspired love in him, but the tender- ness, sweetness and goodness that beamed in her eyes and were expressed in her voice and words. Her exquisite taste, love of the beautiful and sublime, pious aspirations, filial affection, gentleness and refined mind, made him a lover. Her language was the language of his own soul; her tastes were the same as his, and he had met the con- genial spirit that he had longed for and sought from the first dawn of manhood. The more he saw of her, the more heloved. In joy and sorrow, in the time of trouble and disappointment, as well as when hope was brightest, and in all the changes of fortune, his love was constant as the fixed stars. Such love was destined to endure forever, for it sprang from and took root in a congeniality of tastes and thoughts, and in the harmony of their natures.   350      rThe Diamond Cross. The joyous event of their nuptials would have taken place shortly after the transfer of the Bouverie estate to Laura but for the death of her mother. Out of respect to the memory of her deceased parent, and in conformity to the custom of society, she deferred the happy day till the usual period of mourning should be over. In the interim Laura spent the time partly with her grandmother, and partly with Mr. and Mrs. Howard, at her dear old home in ,the mountains. She did not forget or neglect, under any change of circumstances, those whom she had formerly regarded as her parents; for she loved them dearly. As soon, therefore, as she had settled the business which required her presence in Baltimore, during which time she stayed with Mrs. O'Donnell, she visited her former putative father and mother. The happiness of meeting again, after a sorrowful sepa- ration which they had thought would be forever, was enjoyed equally by them and her. Their desolate hearth was made cheerful once more by her presence and the sweet sound of her voice; and she, who left overwhelmed with grief and despair, returned full of hope, to enjoy renewed pleasure in their affection and amid the charming scenes of her child- hood. But the dear spot had another and a greater charm. It was there she first experienced the power of love, and learned she was beloved. The beauty of everything was exaggerated in her eyes and imagination, agreeably to the change that had taken place in her mind and fate. The skies looked brighter, the mountains grander, the landscape more beautiful, the forest trees more stately, the foliage richer, flowers smelt sweeter, birds sang more delightfully, and the music of the mountain brook, by the side of which she had often played and roamed,' was ,more melodious. All nature appeared to rejoice in accord with her happy " state. The unhappiness she had suffered, as well as her absence from home, seemed like a dismal dream from which she had just awoke.   T"he Diamond Cross.      35  During her stay in the country she employed herself in restoring and improving the garden, in which she used to take delight, and which had faded while she was away, and in having the house and grounds enlarged and beautified in anticipation of her marriage, for she and Mosely had de- cided to reside a part of each year at that loved place. Thus week after week and month after month rolled by, bringing her nearer the day which would crown her with joy. Mosely, too, saw time fly with more gratification than a spendthrift witnesses the last days of the-miser who holds his wealth. He lived in the sunshine of hope as time rolled on. But he was not idle during this period, for his natural impulse to be useful and to do good was stimulated, and his ambition revived. There remained but one other event to complete his happiness. That was, his marriage with Laura. The time of mourning for her mother having ended, she'put off her sombre garments and prepared herself for that blissful occasion. She, being a Catholic, and he, though a Protestant, hav- ing broad and liberal views with regard to religion, they decided to be married in the Catholic church; and the place appointed for the ceremony was the-Cathedral at Baltimore. It was not to be what is termed a fashionable wedding, with the fatigue, display and flourish character- istic of weddings generally, for that was not consonant to the taste of either Laura or Mosely, and was not to take place or be conducted as a spectacle for the public or a scene for gossip. The relatives of the O'Donnell fam- ily, with some of Mosely's relations and a few friends, were invited. Nor did the wedding party intend to rush from the city in the railroad cars, and thence to some mam- moth hotel in a distant place, as is the custom. Mosely had provided a suitable residence, furnished with that ele- gance and surrounded by such objects as he knew would suit the taste of Laura, and to this home he was to con-   352       The Diamond Cross. duct his bride. Lanabere was there to see Mosely and his cousin united; and so was Mrs. Bright, the dear friend of both, who first made them acquainted with each other, and who was delighted to witness such a happy result of her friendly introduction. Heaven smiled auspiciously on the morning of their nuptials. The sun shone brightly in a cloudless sky to bless their marriage.- The air was full of sweetness, as were their hearts; and all nature spoke approvingly of a union so much in accordance with its laws. Perhaps those in- visible and happy spirits, which some say attend the good and rejoice in their happiness, hovered around them as they went to the church, for their countenances were ra- diant with joy. Never did Laura look so charming as in her bridal robes on that day. The exquisite taste which she displayed in everything else was seen in the richness and simplicity of her dress, and in her graceful and modest bearing. She wore on her swelling bosom the sparkling cross, which was the precious relic of her mother, which was so much associated with her romantic history; and which had been chiefly instrumental in the discovery of her parentage and consummation of her happiness. As Mosely fondly gazed at her, and- admired the taste with which she was adorned, his eyes rested on this inestimable souvenir. He said, "India never produced a gem so valuable, for it has given me my beloved Laura, a prize worth more than all the riches and honors of the earth." Thus Mosely and Laura attained the acme of earthly bliss. They stood before the altar and plighted their vows to each other, and were pronounced husband and wife. The benediction was uttered by the priest with unusual fervor   Thke Diamond Cross.      35 as they knelt before him; for he, being acquainted with the history and piety of the bride and the story of their love felt a Divine impulse to bless them. And "From that day forth, in peace and joyous bliss, They lived together." THE END, \t    
         
       
   
