
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). Scotto the Scout, or, The Union Rangers .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7625
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Scotto the scout, or, The Union Rangers 
            
               "K -     i

f
f
1

A TALE OF THE

GREAT REBELLION.

BY DR. J. H. ROBINSON,
1EW YORK:
FRIDERIO A. BRADY, Publisher,
No. 24 Ann Street,

'7

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT

;.

the Sian


ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1861,
BY CAULDWELL, SOUTHWORTH &amp; WHITNEY,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York.

274..7
5421w
.C  d

FILMER &amp; CO.,
a. Dt a 0c TT P ER .Y
17 Dutch at,. N. Y. '

f

3

SCOTTO, THE SCOU',
on,

C UAPTER L.
vRn SITUATION--THE LOYAL PICETB--TRN nonas.
MAN.
Washington wasa niil iary camp, and its usu-
ally quiet streets eci. to the measured tread
of armed men.     The. tai'-spangled .banner
waved tranquilly over perturbed anefluctuat
ng Baltimore, and Federal cannon bristled on
Arlington and Georgetown Heights.   A long
line of loyal bayonets gleamed brightly on the
troubled borders of Virginia.  cCleilan and
Patterson were advancing; the impatient col-
umus of McDowell faced Fairfar and Manassas
on the extreme left, Fortress Monroe frowned
grimly on the defiant approaches of mad rebel-
lion ; while the blockading squadron swarmed
the Gulf.
The disloyal States were beginning to feel the.
power of the Government, the strength of the
Union, the wrath of the North, and the glowing
patriotism of the awakened West.
The uprising of a free, brave, and industrious
people is a grand, yet terrible spectacle.
others wept over their gallant sons, and sent
them to, the glorious .field. Sweethearts and
wives kissed lovers and husbands, and hurried
them to the great battle for freedom Gray.
headed sires girded, the sword to their stalwart
boys, and blessing them  with uplifted, trem-
bling hands and husky voices, reminded them
of W%.-iington ; that wounds in front are the
glory of the soldier ; that to die for ones coun-
tr is t I join the world's army of comnnemorat-
heroes and martyrs. . . -
Never was sucha sight seensince the Revo-
lation. Party lines, were' forgotten; partisan
- differences died thedeath, and the discordant
tongue of demagogue-clamor was heard no more.
There was political peace in- the North and in
the West. The spirit of unaggimitf possessed all
hearts. A .new crusade waS inaugurated. Fair
women, stirred with a nobler enthusiasm than

eret inspired the daughters of the conquering
pilgrim  Cross, prepared laurels for their soi-
dier-heroes, and cheered their hurried, eager
march to Meet the isulting foe. The coldest
blood grew warm; the inost stagnant currents
began to flow, and all thought as from  one
mighty brain. If here and there Treason dared
to mutter, 'low 'down'in' its throat, the quick ver-
diet of the People sent it, silentand shamed, to
its own, laee.
There was no conscription. Neither threats,
nor wheedling, nor bribery, were resorted to, to
fill the 'ranks of the Union hosts. The Govern-
ment was amazed An'd cmba-rassed by the
swarming multitudes that hurried to the nation-
al standard at the fidt blast of the'bugle. The
despotisms of the Old World, that had, at the
beginning, laughed at our calamity and mocked
when our trial carme, wondered beyond measure
at the spectacle of a mighty army, gathered in
a day, ba 'power inherent in itself, stimulated
neither by hope of pillage nor love of conflict,
but by pure patriotism.
This geat 'Army of the North and West rest*
ed quietly on the Potomac, awaiting calmly the
shock of battle. General Scott, strong in his
integrity, faithful to the Union.and 'his soldier-
instincts, ian consonanc with his carefully-
studied plan of the campaign, was now drawing
his strong cordons more closely. around the
black hearti f Rebellion.
The rebeis'affteted to behold these vast prep
rations with 'ontempt.   Intrenched behind
masked batteries, they raised and strtik the
*ar-post, boAsti of their achievements in tlh
past, And' vain -gloriuisly breathiog speedy de
feat to the barbarian Yankee hordes. But noth-
ing came of the semenaces; and Washington, in-
stead of becoming a "stone quarry," as threat-
ened by the potential leader of'the Couf derate
forces, wa unusually gay an  attractive. In
the various 'skirmishes that took place, the
Southern' chivalry showed more haste then h-

f!

f
.I

ywV  Ifr~+ri+nivr.N.M 'rrv~.r.r~ r


4          SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS..

roism. Indeed, their legs were their best arms,
the former taking them from that danger which
the latter could not, or would not,. manfully
meet.
The rebels occupied Fairfax and Manassas,
and an advance upon those places was talked
of by those in authority, greatly to the satisfac-
tion of the loyal troops. The retreat of the en-
emy had been so uniform that many dreamed
of an easy victory ; but there were cooler per-
sons who shook their heads, and talked of Gates
flying before the charging squadrons of Corn-
wallis at the disastrous field of Camden.
Weary of inaction and iheited by an earnest
but over-zealous press, the Army of the Poto-'
mac was impatient for a decisive forward move-
ment. Such was the situa ion of affairs at the
time our story commences.
Late on a soft and pleasant summer-night,
some weeks after the magnificent moonlight-
march over the Long Bridge, and the occupa-
tion of Alexandrianby the dashing Fire Brigade,
s man, mounted on a powerful horse, was ob-
served by two of the loyal pickets slowly ad-
vancing in the direction of Fairfax, unconscious,
apparently,'that he w4 ear those whose duty
it was to demand his business and dispute his
right to proceed, unless duly vouched for by a
military pass. The pickets, on making this
discovery, drew closer to each other, andscreen-
ed by a cluster of intervening bushes, quietly
awaited the horseman's coming. When he was
sufficiently near for that purpose, one of the
men stepped from his covert,.and demanded :
" Who goes ?"                       ,
The horseman, instead of answering this chal-
lenge in customary form, instantly spurred his
horse and made a bold attempt to run the pick-
et.  So sudden was this movement, that the
guard had neither time to cock nor present his.
musket; and had it not been for his .compan-
ion, the determined rider would have effected
his purpose.  The former, as the latter was
passing near his concealment, and, indeed, al-
most upon him, had the presence of mind to
throw himself forward b-efore the plunging
horse, anil seize it by the bridle, with a force
and energy that effectually checked the animal,
which, however, made a spirited effort to shake
him off.
The man making this decisive demonstration
was tall and athletic, and clad in a plain suit of
national blue. While his right hand grasped
firmly i1he tightened reins, he held in his left a
rifled "musket, surmounted by that terrible
weapon, the sabre-bayonet, which, in the soft
moonlight, glittered like burnished silver. A
heavy dragoon-sword wns girt to his side by a
substantial leathern belt, which also gave sup-
port to a bowie-knife and a brace of revolvers..
His stronglv-defined and sun-browned face
was singular calm and unruffled in expres-
sion, as he nervously pressed the horse back-

ward upon his haunches, and controlled his fier'
spirit.
"Don't hurrystranger,.don't hurry  ,You'll
sweat your. lhoss, if, you :ain't keerful. There's
time enough for any honest business, without
heatin' your blood."
The horseman had reached down to the saddle,
and half-drawn a pistol; but, on hearing this
salutation, let it fall slowly back into the bolster.
"My haste is urgent. Do not detain me- I
should even now be several miles from here,"
he answered, looking umiessily about him.
" Nu doubt o 't; bet them   severial miles
ought todbe torard Arlington, 'stead o' this way.
I'd  ave vou comperhend, impatient stranger,
that nowlbat done up in the shape of flesh, be it
the flesh of men, women, children, or animals,
can budge this way without. the countersign or
a written parse. I'll take one or t'other of 'onm
about this time of the lone starry hours ; which
means, young traveler, about as quick as you
can cleverly git at 'enm."
The horseman glanced downward at the fea-
tures of his interrogator ; they were quiet but
determined.
"I thought," he said, searching his pockets,
" that I passed the loyal pickets half a mile
back; but it would seem that I am mistaken. I
had a paper," he added, hesitatingly, "from one
in authority ; but--but I fear I have lost it."
" Sorry to hear it, sir ! - Am  afeard it'll put
you to a deal o' trouble., You'll obleege nie by
gittin' off o' this hoss. It's a slashing' fine un,
and '11 do for the Boys to prac-tise the calvary
movements on."
4 You surely don't mean to detain and rob
me !" cried the horseman, in evident alarm. "I
warn you that any violence offered to me will be
resisted. Who are you? Call the corporal of
the guard !"
The man laid his hand again upon a pistol.
" To confiscate the. spiles of an inemy, is no
robbery. Your resistance I keer nowbat about,
inasmuch as fighting' is at present my perfession.
As for the next question consarning who I be,
my name is Scotto, independent enp'n of an in-
dependent company of star-spangled critters. I
go for the Union, the whole Union, and constitu-
tional liberty. If I don't eat my bigness into
rebellion, if I don't cut and back, hash, slash,
and gash, right and left, it 'll be because my
hand forgets its cunnin', and my arm loses its
strength, my heart its patriotism, and my brain
its sense ! That's who I be, and that's the ground
on which I stan' on, and, with God's help, will
stan' on while I stan' anywhere on the nirth.
As for the cor'pril of the guard, I'll send for him
when I need him. Havin' answered all your
questions, I'll take the liberty to help you out
of the saddle."
Captain Scotto dropped his musket upori the
grass at his feet, and was about to drag the
young man from his seat, when, making a virtue

I

of necessity, he saved him that trouble by dis-
mounting, but not till he had looked at the
other guard, and perceived 'his weapon leveled
at his head.
" Everything you have asked has been replied
to by me. It Is now my turn to be inquisitive.
What name did you say ?" added Scotto.
" In times like these, names are of little con-
sequence," responded  the. person interrogated.
" however, I have no objections to telling you-
a na ne that has never been disgraced by me.
I a:n called R tphi Girdwood."
"A good nam - and a good bigger by natur',"
returned Scotto, appreciatively. .' But names
an.l figgers don't pars pickets without the docky-
neeits. We've suffered enough by being too
easy with our inemies. Our Gov'ment has hard
work to b lieve that we're in ait actooal state o'
,war with then as will show no marcy. Mistaken
kin Ibess has got to stop somewhere ; and as true
is m' na:ua is Scotto, it shall go hard with the
spy thiat fills mt , my hands."
"Spy!" exclaimedl Girdwood, quickly.
"Spy I said, and spy it is I" said Scotto,
sharply. " Down on t ie grass, mister! Barney
Malone "-he turned to. the guard who stood
near him -" off with this chip's boots, and see
whit's into 'em."%
"Jist as your honor plates! If 'twas a leg or
an ara that ye'd have pulled off, I'd pull it off
all th same; for obajence to orders is the fust
'ty of h bold soger boy," responded. Barney,
a l;'ancing upon Girdwood, with alacrity.
" I protest against this!" exclaimed Girdwood,
retreatimg  behind his horse, which Captain
Scotto still held. "I warn you not to come
lieirer. If I am to be detained, take me to
las i-quarters."
Ie drew up his person and showed Barneyi
donse a figure straight, athletic, and hand-
CliC and too formidable to be lightly approach-
I.
"Is it to Barney Malone ye say it?  Is it to
thrue Uion soldier that ye're sp'akin' ?" re-
rted Barney, throwing himself into an attitude
' defence. " Mind these two illigant bunches
'bones, now !" (Barney held up his fists like
prize-fighter.) "Down on the grass, as ye're
owid, ye murtherin' blackguard !, If 'twasn't
or the likes of ye, we might ivery mother's son
f us be home, dhr'amin' peaceably in our bussed
eds."
"Back!" admonished Girdwood. "Back!"
: Barney not heeding this warning, but con-
inning to press upon the young man, the latter
truck straight out from the shoulder and
nocked him down ; then, with singular celerity
f motion, sprang upon his horse, plunged his
purs mio his sides, and riding over Scotto,
t'le good his escape.
'hye captain seized his musket and fired after
he daring horseman. The report was followed
quick succession by several others along the

I,.

line, but Ralph Girdwood rode on, apparently
unharmed.
CHAPTER II.
TE INDEPENDENT RANGERS AND THE DASKETEEU.
Scott, gazed after Ralph Girdwood til both
horse and rider had dwindled into a iure egeek
in the distance.
" There lie goes, driving' full speed into the
inemy's picket V he muttered, in a i one that suf-
ficiently evidenced his dissatisfaction. - Tisn't
often 1 git fooled in that way. Lubin' what few
fakilties I had, I guess. The twins could done
better'n that. \ ll, it's been the way from the
begiain'; the seceshers, spies, lirates, and
Uion-killers have escaped their desarta. Them
as should a been hung, by the head; or shut by
a squad o' men at thirteen paces, shirk the
awards o' justice in one way or another ; ey; her
by the tender mareies of the Gov'nieit, their
wit, or their heels. I wonder which this ting 'l11
stop? I wonder when the wise uns at Washia'-
ton. 'll begin to work in airnest :: I wonder
when the dull eyes '11 be opened, the heavy ears
begin to hear, and the inactive han-is put forth
their strength. For one, I want to fight! For
one, I want to 'eat my bigness into this rebel-
lion! For one, I want to draw the sword o'
Liberty, and hack, hash, and gash for th.. Con-
tinental Constitution, which is the hope o' thie'
world, and which we've lived under happy and
contented' till this rotten secesher idee was
dinned into the ears of the South-downers-by a
few lazy, pervaricatin', pervarted dimagogues,
grasping' arter rule and authority. That's the
short, long, and whole on't 1"
Scotto looked thoughtfully at the bright sa-
bre-bayonet on his musket, sighed, and turned
slowly to Barney Malone
"Up, Barney, up! Never fall down, man,
when a traitor strikes."
"-Niver fall;is it? cried Barney, springing
to his feet. ' ";Kape0'ur trotters when you're
knocked down, you mane ? Stan' up when you're
sprawlin', wud ye ?  Cap'n, jewel, they it your-
self, and jest be afther informin' ine how it
agrays wid fe, immejiate aftherwards. His fist
flew outLlike a stame-hammier straight into me
countenance when all to onet, without any warn-
in', something' drapped at me feet; an) meself
was it that drapped. Bad cess to the murdering'
seeader! He's spied the sittin' of na illigant an
eye as iver sighted a gun-barrel, or winked at
an angel. May gunpowther and lead bring me
to grafe if I don't remimber this'insult when we
reach Melasees Gap; Feerfax.Coort-House, and
other ribil intrenehments. The Sixty-ninth is
the boys for 'em! The Sixty-ninth is the eye-
wathier for me!I"
Barney resumed his musket, and seemed lost
in a sudden reverie of the Sixty-ninth.
Will they fight?", asked Scotto, look'mg
again at the lessening form of the horseman.

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.


6          SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT; O&amp;, THE UNION RANGERS.

" Is it of Paddy Malone ye axes it?  Is it me-
self that ye're s. aiun' to? Isn't it some dirthy
drame you're in, cap'n dear? Will cats ketcnh
mice?   Will lislies swim the say?  Will fer-
rets run afther rats? Go away wid ye, Cap'n
eotto !"
Barney made a playful thrust at Scotto with
his bayonet; but it was evident that the ques-
tion hind touched him in a sensitive spot.
"I'mi sorry,''said Scotto, with a troubled face,
" that the chap got away. I thought you could
manage him, Barneyy, or I should laid hands on
him inyself. I shouldn't wonder now, if there
was plans of our works in his boots. He wouldn't
slipped through the fingers of one o' then Fire
Zarves in that way, I'll warrant."
"It's, the rid-capped divils you're comparin'
me wid ! I'll tell ye jest the truth, eap'n ; the
fire eraythers are good for contindin' with fire
and rather, but wud go down afore a stame-
hammer as suddint as Barney Malone of the
Sixty-ninth. Take part of the blame to your-
self. )idn't a fine horse flout ye at the same
time? Why didn't ye liould him, cap'n ? Tell
me that que tion, I axes ye " S     w
Barney leered cunningly at Scotto, who was
now very willing to drop the subject, and, for-
tunately for him, the appearance of a body of
horsemen favored his wishes.
"Here comes my star-spangled     critters !
You'll hear from them, Barney, afore this on-
nat'ral war is over. There isn't one on 'em but
is able to eat his bigness into rebellion. They're
true men, gathered from all parts of the North
and West. They've seen all sorts o' sarvice,
and love the Union as they do their mothers.
They're boys arter myown heart! For liberty
and the nation, they'll hack, and out, and slice,
with the bravest fighters in the land. Not that
they nat'rally love blood and slaughter. Not
that, by no means whatsomever. In civil life
they're as tender-hearted ahp women, and indus-
trious as ants. But the sperrit of Seventy-Six is
irnto 'em! The patriotism of the fightin' fathers
swells in their bosoms like new wine in bottles.
No plunder, no filthy-lucre, no pay for the In-
dependent Union Rangers. They're in nobody's
sarvice but the country's ; under nobody's com-
mand in particular brit mine ; in for no time, but
for the war, long or short. We ask nothin' of
Government but the priver'lege of begin' put' face
to face with the foe. We want io clothes, no
quipments, no houses, no rations, no money out
, ncle Sam. We can take keer of ourselves,
and do it chebrful, all' for the sake of the glori-
ous old Stars and Stripes that our ancestors
fou ht udder at Bunker Hill, Lexington, Con-
oor , and other places. It's a fine old rag," he
added, casting his eyes upward to the flag that
floated over Iis command. " It's a fine old rag,
and woe, woe to the traitors that betray it !"
Perhaps the patriotic Scotto thought of a
white-headed ol man, once known in America

as 'General Twiggs, but remicmbcred now only
for the.enormity of his treason.
By this time the Union Rangers had drawn
up before their leader. This company of index.
pendent men was-composed of the best material
for hard and efficient service. They numbered
a hundred and ten, including officers, and had
rallied around Scotto because he had seen serv-
ice in Mexico, and in the wild warfare of the
West. They knew that he would not flinch, ant
was the man to lead them to victory, if it were
within human attainment. his hardy frame, well-
seasoned muscles, and, universally-accredited
courage, gave promise of great effectiveness ;
while his unquestioned loyalty and many good
qualities, secured the respect and friendship of
his followers.
: "Lieutenant Scarlett," said Scotto, "have you
seen anybody stirring' within our lines?"
"Only a man on horseback, who might, for
aught 1 know, have been one of our pickets.
Seeing us, he quickened his speed, and we soon
lost sight of him. . He should have reached.the
picket somewhere hereabout," replied the officer
} addressed,
" He did reach it, and run it, too !" returned
Scotto, biting his lip, " He's a good two mile
on his way to Fairfax, by this time."
"A detachment of the-Black Horse Cavalry
has been popping at our pickets a"few miles
above," remarked the lieutenant, looking in-
quisitively at the face of his leader.
" The Black Hoes Calvary 1" repeated Scotto,
quickly. " We must have a dash at them, boys.
Black losses or white losses don't make no dif-
ference in a man's fighting' qualities. The black
hoss idee 'nay scare children, but it won't go
down with our Northers and Westers that are
big enough to buckle on a sword, or sight a rifle.
There's nothin' in color, but everything in
pluck. We'll move out our lads, and make a
reconnoisance ,,torard  the  inemy's advance-
guard."
At that moment a man spurred from the rear
in considerable haste, and, approaching Captain
Scotto, said, with a scandalized look :
" Them twins are fighting' ag'in !"
" Fightin' ag'in ? -rIn course they're fightin'
again. They're callers fightiri' ag'in," returned
Scotto. Then raising his voice, ie shouted
"Peleg ! Pickerin'!- ro the front, you littler. s.
calls !"
After some delay and commotion in the rear
rank, two boys, about a dozen years old, -dress-
ed as Zouaves, mounted on mules, made their
appearance in front. They were somewhat dis-
ordered and blown, evidently from a recent
brush.
"Been at it ag'in-haven't ye ?" queried Scot;r s
without a particle of apparent wrath.
One of. the lads grinned, the other looked sni.
len.
" Clapperelawin' each other, weren't th y

Oo'.'ril Keith ?".turning to the man who had
preferred the charge against the culprits.
" They was ! They was at it, peggin' away at
each other arter the old fashion," replied Cor-.
poral Keith. -
"it's into 'em ! It's nat'rally into 'em, and
has been into'em ever since I found 'em a'hang-
in' in a basket at my door. Prehaps you all,
may or may'nt know," he continued, looking at
his command, " that that was the way that I
oome into the possession of them belligerents.-
Yea, my men, then critters was in a basket,,
done up in some coarse sackin', with never so
much linen on 'em as would kiver a pin-cushion.
Tiey was very new babies. They was too new.
to be balloon' in a basket. I was a single man
then, as I am now, and as I'm like to be through
life ; and knew no more about new babies than
a Thomas-eat about kittens. . I was a good 'cal
exercised in my feelin's. I thought, at fust, that
I'd slip 'em slyly aboard the fust stage-coach
that passed along the rad, and send 'em, sackin'
and all, to seek their fortins otherwheres. But
fafe ordered things different, for jest then they,
begun to claw each other and scream. Their
cries went through my ears like the shriek of a
ie. While- I stood staring , onsartin what to do,.
my housekeeper, an old maid aunt, come out of
a suddint.  When she seed that basket, she
bristle.l up like a porkypine, and looked at me
awful.
What's into it?' sez shea
"'Reg'lar live uns!' sea I, edgin' away. ,
Luke Scotto, you're a depravity !' sez she.
Who'd a thought a respectable house would a
had. babies hung onto it!'
"'Nobody, I guess, that's acquainted here-
abouts.' sez I, maliciously.  With that she toss-
ed her head and went in, leavin' the basket on
the door-step. But she didn't stay long. There
was a woman's heah into her, notwithstanding'
her sharpness. She come back ag'in and told
me to fetch in the basket."
"Were they twins ?" asked   the lieutenant,
smiling.'
The Lord he only knows !  They was about.
thie same length and bigness.  Their featur's
was as onlike as two hIindu idols, and they fou't
each other; tieerfore we thought.it best to call
'em twins ; though I ginerally styles 'em the
Basketeers. Individooally, they're named Peleg
and 'Piekerin'. Like many other brethers-tak-
in' it for granted they're brethers-they don't
agree. There is a tendency -into 'em to pitch in.
There hasn't been a day simee I brung 'em up,
that they haven't pitcher in, more or less, often-
er more.-I reckia they come of a fightin' fam-
ily, and these be the instincts of the second and
third ginerations."
Seotto paused, and various comments were'
ade by the Rangers, some of which were by
*o means flattering to the subjects of this short;
story.z

" There being' so much tight in 'em," re
sumed the captain, "I'm goin' to turn it to sarmo
account. If they'll.tackle the inemy with half
the spirit they do each other, they'll do mis-
chief. There's been a good 'cal of our'ousty
and 'quir'y, and some innooendo about 'those
boys, and I've taken this occasion to set ye all
right. They're fo'ndlin's. There no more nor
less than basket fo'ndlin's. Co'p'ril Keith"--he.
turned.to the corporal--'t if they git to fighting'
ag'iu, let me know it. , Boys, fall back to your
places I"
The Basketeers, in obeying this order, pur-
posely backed their mules together, which fell
to kicking furiously, to the great delight of their
riders, who clung to their backs like monkeys.
" The mules are twins, too, I allow !" said
Corporal Keith.
Peleg and Pickering finally effected a retreat.
creating confusion in whatever direction thee
went. One was presently heard singing "'Dixie,
and the other "John Brown."
" Attention !  Now, my star-spangled orit.
terms, we'll look arter driftin' squads of the Black
Hoss Calvary. Right face 1. File left I Marchl"
Previously to giving this order, Captain Soot
to mounted his horse, which had been tied to a
tree near by, and which Barney led forward.
The UnionRangers moved off at a lively
pace, the fighting brothers cantering in the rest.
their red caps and red trowsers rendering then
conspicuous long after Scotto's columns presea4-
ed but a dark mass.
" The blissings of God and all the saints that
iver was, go with 'em, and with the ould flag
that floats over 'em !" said Barney Malone, fer-
vently, as he renewed his rounds. "Bad look
to the Irishman that won't fight for the Stars'
and Stripes, and the country that gives hiua
bread and butther, and more liberty nor he glia
at home.' The Sixty-ninth is the boys for 'en,
say I!"
'Ihrinking of he Sixty-ninth, Barney stepped
off more firmly, and, held up his head bravely,.
At the moment when the Rangers swept out oaf.
sight, he was singing, sturdily:
" with my sprig of shillalah and shamrock as gress."
CHAPTER III.
THZ CAPTAIN OF TER BLACK HORS.
Meantime, the man who had so successfully
passed the loyal picket, kept on his way, unin-
jured by the bullets that whistled. after him.
One of 'these leaden messengers pierced his eap.
doing, fortunately, no further damage than oar-.
rying away a lock of hair,
" Close shooting for night practice!"' he mut-
tered. "I'll warrant yonder stout Yankee cap.
tain aimed that missile. -I wonder what is tobe
the end of all this ?"
Ralph Girdwood fell into-a fit of musing, and,
being out of rifle range, allowed his horse to
slacken its speed. He had proceeded but a short

11


8

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

distance in this manner, when the sudden elat- I sternly, " trifle not, upon your peril! If your
tering of iron-shod feet startled him from these\ heart is in the right cause, you have nothing to
reflections, put him upon the alert, and caused, fear from  me. I belong to the Confederate
him to gather up the lose rein with a quick and States, soul and body, for life, and perhalps for
energetic hand. Before he had time to ques" death. My name is }jurdlestone-a name that
tion or draw pistol from holster, he perewived a shall yet become fearful to the Northern hordes
man at his side, riding a coal-black horse of tru- that, like devouring locusts, swarm our border.
ly wonderful size and symmetry.       .,    Wherever you hear the tramp of the Black-
To glance sharply and searchingly at the per- Horse Cavalry, you may' look for me !'
son who had so unceremoniously joined him,    The man's brows contracted vengefully, and
was the natural and quickly-obeyed instinct of he shook the bridle-rein fiercely in his clenched
Girdwood. The impression-he received by this hand.
cursory, instantaneous examination was far from  "I have heard of that formidable body of
reassuring. The horseman was of athletic pro- men,' answered Girdwood, "but did not so soon
portions, sat firmly and at ease in the saddle, expect the honor of meeting one cof them,"
while his countenance was of a cast stern, dark,  "Theyare known to the Federal lines !" said
and thoughtful, recalling vividly to the youig Rurdlestone, grimly.: ,Then, turning quickly to
man's mind pictures he had seen of Cromwell.  Girdwood, added-: " Why is your horse's head
"Friend or foe ?" exclaimed Girdwood, al- toward Fairfax? I.: tell you, frankly, that you
most involuntarily, simultaneously checking his are treading dangerous. ground, unless well
horse, and reaching for a pistol.           vo uched for. Our general shows slight mercy
" Either, young man; according to your own to prowlers and spies. He does not imitate the
election!" answered he of the black horse, weak and vacillating policy of the Federals.
bluntly, and-irr a voice-by no means soft, giving We have staked all upon the sword, and we are
Girdwood an inquisitive glance from  beneath -not the men to falter at hemp and steel. What
his heavy and sombre brows.                are a few paltry lives to the success of our ter-
" Your answer is m et vague and ambiguous,' 'rible venture ? Now, sir, you know who 1 am.
returned Girdwood. "In times like these, all Who are you?"
men are friends or enemies. There is no neutral  "To tell you the truth, Mr. Hurdle-tone-"
ground. We are either mortal foes or sworn    " Captain Hurdlestone," interrupted the man,
brothers."                       .         bluffly.
Girdwood's hand remained on his pistol; but  " To tell the truth, Captain Hurdlestone, Ia
the other made no motion toward his weapons, think of taking service in th  Confederate Ar-
of which he had no lack, being literally armed my."
to the teeth ; a heavy cavalry-sabre swinging at  Others have had the same-thought, and been
his side, with a bowie-knife and revolvers for its hanged for their pains !" sneered Hurdlestone.
neighbors, while a short rifle was slung across  "71 trust to better fate, sir. I shall never lull
his-broad shoulders.                        hemp, ifI can help it. Besides," he went'on,
Right, sir, right I"-he replied, with the same in a different tone, "I swear to you I'll shoot
harsh brevity of annunciation. " Had you not the luckless person who shall make a proposi-
been followed hither by Northern bullets, as well tion of that nature in my hearing. You will
as by a Northern cent, your business would find me one no more to be trifled with than
have been settled ere this."                yourself !"
" You saw me break through the loyal pick- ~"Humph !" muttered Hurdlestone.
S*to ?" said Ralph Girdwood, quickly.         "My business," continue Girdwood, wit h in-
The horseman knit his brows, and darted a creasing steadiness, "I make known to no per-
suspicious glance at Girdwood.             son not entitled to the-knowledge !"
"I like not the term 'loyal,' sir ! Call then  ".You flap your wings well for so young a
Yankee or Federal pickets, if you will ; but the chicken !" said Hurdlestone, dryly. " You may
word 'loyal' falls not pleasantly on my ear. I, have them clipped, for all that !"
too, am loyal-to my cause !"                 "'I bear dispatches, which must be delivered
" It matters little to me,'' rejoined Girdwood, as soon sa may be," eontinved Girdwood, with-
after a pause, "what they are called. Their out heeding the other's rematk.
lead will kill as quick by one napne as another.  "To:whom ?  From whom ?"
In justice, they owe me a cap." He pointed to  " To an-officer high in command. But your
the bullet-hqle in the article named.       last question; excuse we if I-do not answer."
"Better acap than a bend. But sufficient of  "You have a prudent tongue. What i.ffi-
this. What brings you, young man, upon the eer ?"
sacred soil of Virgmia ?"           ,,    .Hurdlestone's clear, cold, gray eyes were fixed
"I might give you the old saw upon words, intently upon ,the young man.
'That my horse brings me," said Girdwood, will-  ." Beauregard," said Girdwood, quietly.
e.ang to gain time. and evade a d rect answer.  "Beauregard !" repeated Inrdlstone. with
"Young man," retorted he of the black horse, eviL nt surprise, but incredulity.


SCOTTO, THE SCOUT; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.                         11
" The same," answered the young man, un- flag ; and I am not one to suffer my motives to
moved.                                     be called in question, even by you, sir !"
" It's a trick that's been tried before, and  Ralph Girdwood spoke with more determina-
ended here !" Hurdlestone drew his hand across tion than he had yet exhibited.
his throat.                                   Hurdlestone quickencd his pace, which was
"Trouble not yourself, Captain Hurdlestone, his only response to this remark. The young
about the ending of my mission.' We should, man readily accommodated his own speed to
in courtesy, believe 'that every man knows his that of his companion. .
own business best. I request you to conduct  "That building,'I apprehend, is Fairfax Court-
me to your commander-in-chief, fully knowing House ?" said Ralph.
what I do, and willing to take the responsibility  "Call it what you please," replied the other,
of the same. I bring that from Baltimore which briefly.
he will, perhaps, be glad to receive !"       " It is not a strong position," continued Gird-
Hurdlestone was silent a few moments.     wood.  " A regiment of Fire Zounaves would
readily carry the p lace."
" Be it as you will," lie said, presently. "The  "Be silent, sir I" thundered Ilurdlestone, his
Federal bullets are, with me, your letters of swarthy features still blacker with wrath. " Do
recommendation. I trust no man's word. Ac- not talk to me of those deni-savages -- those
tions are my standards of judgment. If you brawling thieves-those midnight prowlers and
persist in seeing General Beauregard-" He assassins !"
paused anr instant; then added, in e voice a  " You do wrong to a gal'iant body of men, sir.
shade less harsh, as if a more merciful thought Let us not underrate our foes. Ellsworth's
ha I struck hiar: "And yet I would bid you Zonaves are brave as the bravest ; and, should
hesitate, young man, before taking this step." it be your fortune to meet them in the shock of
His keen, gray eyes again flashed coldly upon battle, you will remember my words. I tell
Girdwood.                                   you, Captain Hurdlestone, they will fight^!"
" The subject is fully considered by me. I  " Cowards ! cowards, sir !'" muttered the cap-
am not a boy, to change my mind without cause," tain. " The blood of Jackson cries for ven-
he answered.                                geance !"
" I spoke from a feeling of humanity for one  " Speak not of that !" retorted Girdwood,
so young-and full of life."                 hurriedly. " Whose blood, think you, will cry
A dubious smile flitted over the lips of Ralph the loudest ? It was murder, sir-murder !"
.Girdwood.                                    " What was murder ?" demanded Hurdle-
'-In a moment," continued Hurdlestone, 'syou stone, fiercely.
shall pass the Confederate picket, after which  "The killing of Ellsworth !" replied Ralph,
there will be no return till you have looked our in a suppressed voice.
general in the face, and passed an examination  Hurdlestone's gloved hand toyed nervously
too rigid to be lightly hazarded."  .       with the handle of his revolver.
" The kindness of your motives I certainly  "Death and bell, sir! IIos dare you say it
appreciate. Lead on. Fear is a feeling with to me?'
which I do not feel inclined to be inspired to-  " When I dare not speak my mind, I shall
night. I am of that dull and phlegmatic tern- not dare to live," said Gird wood, steadily. ' As-
per, ,that I must see danger absolute and immi- sassination is not honorable warfare. To shoot
neat, before I shrink from it."'-           a brave and promising young man, outside of
The Confederate officer made no reply. the heat of battle, in an unexpected moment,
Pricking his horse, he sognj reached a rebel by total surprise, does not in the least affect the
picket, and, giving the countersign in a low  great question at issue, and is, in my view,
voice, entered the lines of the Confederates, fol- downright murder. Our troops fled from Alex-
lowed by Girdwood.                          andria, and the Federals were In quiet posses-
" Presently," said the captain, when they had sion when that unmaily deed was perpetrated.
ridden some distance in silence, "we shall There, sir! I have had my say ; and I trust
reach Fairfax-a place much talked of by.the never to be so blinded by partisan hate, as to be
Federals, and about the strength of which they unable to distinguish between things naturally
have indulged in much speculation. In passing heinous in themselves, and things naturally hon-
throneh it you will learn, perhaps, what Mr. orable to human nature !"
Lineoin and the   commander-in-chief of the   Hurdlestone compressed his lips, and repress-
Northern vandals would be glad to know. But ed, with evident effor, some impetuous thought
I assure you, that whatever discoveries you that leaped from his brain to his lips; for ex-
make at this, or any subsequent time, will never pression.
reach the ears of our enemies."              "Talk not thus south of Centreville," he said,
"I protest against these suspicions!" rejoin- coldly aid sneeringly. " 1 arrenton Road and
ed Girdwood, with spirit. " As I have informed Manassas will speedily cure such views as you
you, I think of taking service under the new have expressed. You cannot, M-.-Girdwood,


12         SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

teach chivalry to chivalry itself. You are in
Virginia, sir I"
" Virginia had a history under the old flag !"
"And shall have one under the new 1"
"Dark and bloody, perhaps."
4Dark and bloody let it be!1"
The two now continued their way, in nearly
unbroken silence. Putting their horses to a
gallop, they passed Centreville. Girdwood had
yet seen nothing i o inpre-s him with the
strength of the Confederates, whose 'cause he,
seemed ready to espouse. Indeed, he had ob-
served little else than a few feeble, and, obvious-
ly, hastily-constructed intrenehments, mounted
by three or four six-pound howitzers. Centre-
ville was in no state of defence. There were
men there in considerable force, but without the
means of making an efficient stand. Ralph
could not forbear expressing astonishment.
A grim smile--the first he had seen upon his,
sonibre visage-appeared a moment upon ilur-
dlestone's lips.
" We have no daily press to betray us," he
said, quickly, and with an .energetic gesture.
" General Beauregard ties up the tongues of
fools and the necks of knaves. But blabbing
folly reigns supreme and rampant in the camp
of our enemies.  We know when they buy
a battery, and where they place it. We know
when they contemplate a muov. meat, and when
it takes place. The Northern press tells us
their weak places, their poor generals, and, in
shdrt, their doubts, fears, and expectations. We
have spies and emissaries, friends and sympa-,
thizers in all the departments at Washington.
We will conquer the Federals as much by se-
cret agents and cabal, as by the swo-d and
mas ed batteries."
ITe stretched out his gauntleted hand, and,
laying it suddenly on Girdwood's arm, added, in
a raised and exultant voice :
" The fatal mistake of the Federals is, that
they cannot believe themselves seriously at war,
ant play the magnanin'ous while we are masking
batteries, and playing the devil with the Union,
I tell you, sir, that war is a terrible giant, with'
iron remorsless fingers, and no May-day queen,
to be decked with wreaths and crowned with
laurel I"
"true-most true !" said Girdwood, so fer-
vently, that Hurdlestone fancied he had fired
him with his own dark enthusiasm.
Sentry after sentry was passed, to each of
hom IIurdlestone seemed well known.
" What roal is this ?" asked Girdwood.
" The Warrenton Road, over which the Fed-
erals will march to Manassas !" replied Hurdle-
stone, shrugging his shoulders.
"' ihat ravine and -vood is this, stretching
away before us ?'' queried the young man, gaz-
im  through the moonlit-mists of night, at the
riken country around hin.
:t is called Bull Run." answered the officer

with a peculiar lighting up of his eyes, " where
the Federal troops will stop to reuri sih thin-
selves in the cooling shades, when wear'v of their
'tramp down from Arlington. previous to their
triumphal entry into lanassas."
Hurdlestone lifted his shoulders again, and a
grim ghost of a smile appeared to give a amen-
ing to his face that Ralph could not fathom.
In truth, he was becoming every monument more
mystified with the rider of the black horse.
He was, clearly, a man -of strong prjumdices,
deep and ever-consuming passions, of m charac-
ter bold, resolute, and -unshrminkmg, and mex-
orably wedded to a purpose, disposed, like
inany others, to hold the prowess o his enemies
in contempt.
" This position is a strong-one, by 'nature,"
Ralph remarked.
"You tell me no news, young man." "answer-
ed Hurdlestone, turning from  the mamnrond
into a well-trodden path. Crossiby a ef rods
of rolling table-lamid, green with folige, they
reached, anon, a spot remarkable for its quiet
and secluded beauty.  I[ree s peenlinr to the
soft and luxurious climate grew there in native
perfection.' Here were more sentinils, with
whom the Confederate officer cornamunicated in
low tones, and passed on.
A ride of twenty rods through the trees look
them to a neat f'rrni-iouse, near which, on the
crass, in the row Waning moonlight, several
blacks were sleeping.
"Haimon ! Dagon !" said lurdlestone, slymarp-
ly. " This way, lazy fellows, and tale th. se
horses."  Then to Ralph :   " Dismount, sir.
Here our journey ends."
Two of the blacks arose slowly from the soft,
green pillow of Nature, and, after rubbing their
heavy eyes an instant, came briskly forward and
took charge of the hor-es, favoring Girdwood
with many inquisitive glances as they led the
animals away.
CHAPTER IV.
HOPE HURDLESToNE-oDCToR BENEDICT-SCoTTo A
PRISONER.
Come in," said Hurdlestone, with that cook-
ness of manner which had thus far marked his
deportment. le led the way through an open
piazza, followed by Girdwood. Opening a door
at his right, Hurdlestone entered an apartment
on the first floor, in which a lamp was dimly
burning. The same air of neatness that had iun
pressed him without, was apparent within, But
Ralph, as it happened, had no time for general
observation. A feminine figure, arising suddenly
from the obscure background, approached the
Confederate officer with quick steps and cut-
stretched hands, crying :
" Father ! father I"
Perceiving that lie was not alone, but nec '!,
panied bya stranger, she paused in trlcni ai"
fusion. It was this hesitating and: I

;c
s ,
:

.
t
e
s
a{
;
{
a

ersature  iat now involuntarily drew Girdwood's nor in any manner disturb' your domestic ar-
attention. -He experienced a singular yet not rangemeunts. A blanket beneath the trees will
unpieasing surprise.  Her figure, her face, her afford. ne all the ease and comfort I require,"
eyes, her warn and   glowing expression, were said Girdwood, fearing that he might give in-
each and all instantaneously impressed upon his convenience to his host.
aoiseiousness. So wonderful appeared the per- "I am no churlI" said the latter. "You are
feetness of her womanly -composition,. that he welcome to what I offer."
eoul l not particularize any part as being pre-  Hurdlestone lighted a lamp, conducted him
ei:iently lovely, but could only 'admire her as across the nai row hall, up a staircase, to a small
a fualtless whole -a creation to which nothing chamber in which was a bed.
was wanting to give grace and beauty. : Her ad-  "It wants an hour of daylight," said Hurdle-
veit was, to him, like the sudden" lifting of a stone, "but you shall not be aroused until the
curtain from an exquisite painting.  It was an sun is above the tops of the trees."
inexpressible relief to turn from the stern reali- With these words he left Girdwood to watch
ties of war to the contemplation of sieh an ob- or sleep, as lie saw fit. Sleep would have been
jest. Ths enthusiasm of twenty-five years of his choice, had he been free to choose ; but the
in ihood was agreeably excited, and Ralph's circumstances surrounding him, for, a time ef-
blool thrilled with a magnetism new, and, situ- fectually prevented the approaches.of the gentle
ated as he was,.embarrassing.                 angel of repose. He thought of the war in which
You have returned safely,"'she faltered.  the country was involved ; the blood shortly to
"lBut not alone," replied Hurdlestone, mak- flow like water, and he thought of Hope Hurdle-
in a motion- toward Girdwood. Then, stoop- stone. The latter had brought into life new
in, he kissed her forehead, but without the -feelings and aspirations, which surprised and
-le ist enthusiasm.                          1 bewildered him. Her inspiring eyes were look-
1; Mr. Girdwood," he added, "this is my lugat him while his were close; and while his
daughter. Her name is Hope."                 voice was silent,hers was yet speaking.
Ralph bowed.                                 The golden rays of daylight were creeping
Hope Hurdlestone ! The -name had a en- into the chamlier when he, finally, lapsed into
phonious sweetness for the ear, and fell smooth- slumber ; and even- when sleep had sealed his
ly from the tongue.                          sight, dreams tossed him to and fro, as waves
" My frequent absences tioulle her not a lit- toss a ship at sea.
tIe. The girl is affectionate, though something  He was awakened by a voice he well remem-
of a traitor," continued the officer, in a' voice bered ; a voice still cold and brief.
divided between gentleness and rebuke.         " Awake, sir, awake ! . The sun is higher than
"A serious charge !" said Girdwood, smiling. the loftiest pine in Virginia. Breakfast is wait-
"For some reason," replied Hurdlestone, ing ou."
with a moody drooping of the brows, "her heart Girdwood sprang from the bed to his feet and
is not with us in this work."                felt for his arms ; but seeing his entertainer,
"I love the old flag, father," sighed Hope.  smiled, and greeted him with :
"Let it wave in the North !" retorted Hurdle-  -"Good morning, sir!, I have slept over long,
stone, with a flash of his recent liereeness.  I think ?"
" I am  no politician," said. Hope, timidly,  . "And in your clothes, too, and pistols within
glancing at Ralph, "but the Stars and Stripes reach," observed Captain Hurdleston.
to me seen sacred ; and, if fiam not much de- - "It is quite the same to me," responded
ceived, there are thousands in the South who Ralph. "He who sleeps in hisclothes is soonest
revere them above the Stare and Bars of this dressed. It is not the first time, sir. I have
new-born Confederacy. If there's -treason in roughed it somewhat of late."
that, I cannot help it."                       " Where and wherefore?" asked Hlurdlestone,
.  "Treason enough, girl!"' muttered her father. abruptly.
"lias our guest retired ?" ie added, immediate-  " It would scarcely be worth your time to cell
ly, giving Hope a meaning look,              you," answered Ralph, coloring, and regretting
"I think he has. His room has been quiet directly that his reply savoredfso much of dis-
for the last two hours," she replied.        courtesy.
" Very well. He requires rest. He must not - Without minding it, however, the captain con.
be disturbed." Then, turning to Ralph: "You ducted him down stairs. On the way, he re-.'
are doubtless weary and hungry. Will you eat marked :
before sleeping?"                              "A friend of mine will breakfast with us, who
" I want no food. An hour's sleep were worth need be n'o restraint upon your actions. At my
a day's feast.," answered Ralph..            table, you may express yourself freely on any
"'Then I will show you to a couch, not luxuri- topic."
o':s enough for a pampered civilian, but good  The young man threw a look at the Confeder-
eworzh for a soldier."                      ate officer, but observed no change in the firm-
-I would not intrude upon your hospitality, ly-drawn muscles of his face,

SCOTTO, i THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS

; )
+


SCOTTO, THE SCOU'i'; O1, TUi 'MION RtAMGER S

14        SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

" If I am to appear before ladies, my toilet is
scarcely presentable," said Ralph,, glancing at
his travel-worn garments.
" These are times not to be over-particular.
It is not the outside that shouldeommend you
to tIe favorable regards of Southern dames and
damsels. You will see none of the gentler sort,
save my 'daughter.",
These words were not uttered with, that gra-
ciousness which Ralph believed he had a right
to expect as a guest. Entering the roam to
which he had been conducted a few hours before,
he looked for Hope and the person whom Hur-
dlestone had mentioned. Neither were visible.
A table was spread in a neat and inviting man-
ner, and two black servants stood waiting for
ord'ei-s. A momn;nt after,'Miss Hurdlestone ap-
peared, and, greeting Girdwood in a friendly
manner, seated herself, behind the cofftee-urn.
Almost simultaneously, from' another door, a
man walked gravely in.
"Doctor Benedict, this is Mr. Girdwood, re-
eentl from Baltimore, through Washington and
the Federal lines."'
The man bowed slightly to Ralph, and took
the seat to which his host pointed. The young
man, sitting opposite to Doctor Benedict, was
impressed by his person and manners. . He was
slight in form, but compact in the economy of
muscle. Strength seemed combined with the
most skillful disposition bf material, so that the
whole structure should possess the greatest ef-
ficiency compatible with the per-centage of
weight. His features were regular, with a strong
Anglo-Saxon cast, and a noticeable firmness
about the mouth and p prying quickness of the
eyes. His hair was somewhat gray.' The upper
lip was covered with a moustache. He wore a
plain military coat.'
The commencement of the meal was some-
what stiff; but presently Doctor Benedict began
to talk, and the constraint gradually wore off.
"What do-the people of Washington think of
this rebellion, Mr. Girdwood ?" he asked, sipping
his coffee, leisurely.
Just then Ralph saw Hope Hurdlestone look at
him. It struck him that her eyes warned him
of danger; at' least- he so construed their lan-
guage.
" There are many minds at Washington,''' an-
swered Ralph, guardedly. "The President and
Cabinet feel assured that the Union will be pre-
served, and the rebellion crushed. There are
others who predict, with equal confidence, that
&amp;e seceded States will never returnito their alp
legianee."_
" And what do you think ?"
The eyes of Doctor Benedict were now lifted
full upon Girdwood, who fancied they beamed
with a wild and ambitious light. Before he re-
lied to this home-question, he glanced at MisI
iurdlestone, and  1w the same warning lan-'
guage in her face.

" My opinion," he said, discreetly,' "can be
worth little to persons of more years and expe-
rience than, myself. I will say this, however,
the South underrates the power of the North."
"How many men has General Scott within a
day's march of Washington ?" continued Doctor
Benedict, deliberately.
"A   hundred thousand,"  answered Ralph,
promptly.
" It's false I" exclaimed Hurdlestone, angrily.
" Patience, patience, Colonel Hurdlestone ! I
think the young man is right," said Benedict,
with easy self-possession.
" Pardon me, sir. You have mistaken my
rank. I am simply a captain in the Black
Horse," responded Hurdlestone, pettishly..
" Nay, my friend, itis you who are mistaken.
You were a captain-yesterday ; but you are a
colonel to-day. I have it from good authority."
DoctorBenedict held up a hot roll in his white
hand, and looked tranquilly at his host, who for
a moment wasconfused.
" My blunder, I trust, is pardonable, doctor,
if you bear in mind the circumstance that I have
been absent more than twenty-four hours. The
general has,.no doubt, judged my ability by my
zeal, and, thereby, done me too much honor.
On him be the consequences of my inefficiency."
.IHurdlestone's voice had its usual hardness ;
but even his stern visage could not conceal his
inward satisfaction.
" A responsibility lie will readily accept, no
doubt," said the doctor. "How is Baltimore,
Mr. Girdwood ?"
" Under the heel of the Unio.n. The guns of
Fort -eMHenry are turned upon. that devoted
city, and at the first rising of the people it will
be laid in.ashes," responded Ralph.
"I like not such talk," said the colonel.
" The truth," interposed Doctor Benedict, "is
always better than falsehood. Baltimore, in-
deed, lies panting at the feet of the North ; but
when the grand army of the South moves for-
ward, her shackles shall be broken."
Ralph looked up from his coffee, and per-
ceived that the'speaker's face was flushed with
eome strong feeling that was at work within him.
" Will they bring down those pct lambs of
Wilson's ?" he continued.
' I see, sir, that you have fallen into the com-
mon error concerningthe ' pet lambs,' so called.
Wilson's Zonaves are not in th-e Gran I Ariy of
.the Potomac, nor have they been there. By
this time they are in Fort Pickens,' answered
.Ralph.
" That, cannot be, sir !" exclaimed Hurdle-
stone. ."I have seen the led-capped ruffians
myself, at Alexandria."-
" Pardon me, colonel! You saw Ellsworth's
Fire Zonaves ; quite a different body of men,"
adJed Girdwood.
'1hev are Northern b:arhaliians !" n'ttered
liard.estone. '- Let ime::t':l ,.y,-u , un  mn,

that It you have come here to laud our ennies,
you run a thankless erranid, and one that iiiay
ring you to sudden sorrow. But, till those fa-
mous dispatches are delivered to General Beau-
regard, I shall bear with what patience I may
your evident 'leaning to the Federal heresies.
Call those red-legged Satans' what youwill-
Ellsworth's or W ilson's Zouaves-you cannot
change tltdr natures, or my views. Their rally-
ing-cry Ic: ' Booty and Beauy.'"-
"I give you my word of honor," -replied
Ralph, earnestly, that such a rallying-cry was
never heard within the Federal lines."
"I have never believed it for a'moment I"
said Hope, with suffused face.  .
" Traitor!" snarled Hurdlestone. But wheth-
er he meant Hope -or Girdwood, was not quite
apparent. "Dagon !" he added.
"Here mass colonel !" answered the black,
promptly.
"Do you know whatthe abolitionists are try-
ing to do?"
"Yes, massa. Dey's coming' down to play de
mischief wid de poor nigs. I o'pect we'll have a
hard time in de corn-fields ob de North. I's
heerd it's drefful cole there, -mass . Dey say
dere's icebugs in de nigger's wool de hole time."
Doctor Benedict smiled.
"What are the-New York Fire Zouaves, Da-
gon ?"
" Bress you, mass colonel, dey's de debbil
hisself! I's tole, yes'day, dey eat de little nigs
fast 's dey can cotch 'em, and make nottin''t all
ob it. Begins to be steered, I doess"
While Dagon stood winking and blinking be-
hind his master's chair; a great deal cast down
in view of the calamities hanging over the curly
heads of the juvenile blacks, the colonel's cate-
ehising was brought to an abrupt termination
by the hurried tread of feet, and the sudden en-
tr.ince of armed men with a prisoner, with his
hands tied behind him, pushed forward by bay-.
onets and swords. .-
The surprise of Girdwood was not slight in
recognizing in the luckless captive Captain
Scotto, the tall and muscular Federal whom he
had encountered the night before on the line of
the Union pickets..
The eyes of the prisoner, after wandering-
around tihe room a moment, fell upon Ralph.
" We've met afore, I reckin ?" said Scotto.
" You's under a cloud, then'; sy turn now."
" Do you know this - man ?" asked. Doctor
Benedict, turning sharply to-Ralph.
." I narrowly escaped his: bullet last 'night ;
but I bear no hardness. He- had me fairly at
his mercy, for a short time ; but, thanks to a
quick hand and eye, and a good horse, I made
ny escape."
" It was harnsonely done, if you be a p'ison-
ed Secesher !" said Scotto, planting his foot in
the stomach of a soldier who 'had goaded hoim
heyond endurance. The fellow fell upon his

'back, with his gun across him, in a very gro-
tesque fashion. " Lay there, .you, mean critter!
Can't you let a man alone Ven you've got him
snug and fast? A brave man don't exult-over
his inemy when he's got the better of him. If
I only had my hands untied, I'd make sickness
for some of ye !'
Scotto looked at his captors threateningly.
" Tell ye what ! some of you Black Hoss
riptiles'll lose the number of your mess, if you
ain't a leetle keerful. I've got a handful of cal-
vary myself, that have got some'at to say about
this ere business. You can hang me to. the
nearest tree, if you want to;^but that won't ex-
tarminate the'Independent Rangers. I did want
to live the year out, that I might eat my big-
ness into this rotten rebellion ; theft I might
hack, hew, and sloew; that I might see. the ,old
flag take the place of the new secession rag i
But, if I can't fight, I car hang, or knock under
in any way whatsornever you may light on."
Scotto drew himself up very straight, and
flashed on his enemies bravely.
" What is your name ?" asked Doctor Bene-
dict.
"Scotto," answered the captain, with honest
boldness.
" Scotto, the Scout !" exclaimed IHurdlestone.
" You rebels may have called me so, fust or
last. I'd rather be Scotto, the Scout, than
Beauregard, the Traitor !" retorted the prison-
er, fearlessly.
" Up with him, boys of the Black Horse !"
cried l1urdlestone. "You'll find a tree hard
" I think I've heerd that voice afore. Ain't
you one of the shovelry that run away, at Phil-
lippi ? I's in that bit of a scrimmage myself,"
said Scotto,'coolly.
Hurdlestone scowled, and bit his lip.
The soldiers began to drag him away.
" Stay I" said Benedict, in a voice of authori-
ty. "I always like to have a hand in hanging
and such things. I wish to question this Yan-
kee. Fall back !"
The men fell bsck to the door, leaving Seetto
in the open ,paee between them and the table.
" I breathe better," he said. "This rebel
air isn't good for Northern lkngs."
"Are you willing to take the oath of allegiance,
sir ?" asked' Doctor Benedict, whose sharp, im-
perative manner somewhat perplexed Girdwood.
"I 'can't talk,' gineral, or cap'n, or whatsomev-
er you may be, with strings-onto me," answered
Scotto "'If you think its. oncommon danger-
ous lettin' my hands- loose, you can jest shet
down the winders, and let your seceshers cock
their pieces and bring 'em to a charge; though
it's been thought, hereaways, that one of your
rebels was ekal to five Yankees."
" Untie him," said Doctor Benedict.
One of the soldiers obeyed, with singular
alaclity and .ilenee. Girdwood marveled that


SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

Colonel Hurdlestone showed so much defer-a
ence to this Doctor Benedict.
" There !" said Scotto, stretching out his long
arms. " That's more like life, liberty, and the
pursuit o' happiness. Your the only decent
Cornfederate I've seen. If you's fightin' in a
good cause, you mought be a gentleman. The,
old flag, sir ! The old flag !"
Scotto looked up as if he expected to see the
dear old Stripes above him.
"Take a cup of coffee, to warm your heart,
air," said Hope.
" That's woman, all ,over !" quoth Scotto.
" Bless your pretty face ! my heart's warm
enough for four. Do you know what makes it-
warm, lass ? It's loyalty to the Great .Repub-
lic! There's Bunker Hill into it, and Leexing-
ton, ard Concord, and Ticonderoga. .That's
where I git the fire, gal." Then to Benedict :
"Now, sir, fire away.!"   .
"iWill you take the oath ?" asked Benedict,
somewhat moodily.
" The which ?"
"The oath of allegiance."
"Allegiance to what $" asked Scotto, tartly.
"To the Southern Confederacy "
"Afore. God, I know of no sich institution !
May the. grass grow over me afore I know it !"
cried the scout, with a burst of enthusiasm
His interrogator frowned darkly.
" You will not swear-?" he said.
" If all the trees in gender run was men, and
all the branches and leaves on 'em Was bago-
nets, and all the grass growing' round 'em was
dead-shot rifles, and if all the sunbeams let
down from heaven was rebel halters, I swear to
ye that I wouldn't swear allegiance to your one-
horse consarn ! You wince, do ye ? Prehaps
you ain't, in the natur' o' things, dead to con-
demnation and remorse. Think of what you've
lost ! You've lost the Revolution ; you've lost
your history ; you've lost the Cowpens, and
the memory of the Swamp Fox, and the San-
tee !"
"No matter what we have lost," said Bene-
diet, after a pause. "You are about to lose
that which makes loss and gain the same thing."
Then to one of the men who had brought him
to the farm-house: "Where was this man tak-
en ?"
" Within our pickets, not far from Fairfax
Court-House.  He tried to pass himself off,
when surprised and questioned by our cavalry,
as a Confederate scout, and resisted when told
that he must go to head-quarters," was the re-
ply.
"There need b'e little waste of timein exam-
ining this man," said Hurdlestone. "He was
with Scott in Mexico. His business there was
to obtain information of the enemy's move-
ments. He was the most efficient scout in the
service. To please the then victorious general,
there was no secret skrviee too dangerous for

him to undertake. Ie would have been a good
man on the right side ; but being on the wrong,
our duty is plain."
" Pity that some whioh Went to Mexico hadn't
died there : I have a man in my eye "-the
scout advanced a step,'and looked sternly at
Benedict-" I have a man in my eye which
once had a good name. I have a man in my
eye as went, to the battle-fields of Mexico, a ris-
in' and accomplished officer, but whose name is
now so black with treason that all the waters of
the. Gulf wouldn't wash it white !"
Benedict recoiled. A burning blush redden-
ed his face. He gnawed his nether lip, as if in
pain, and when he again spoke, his voice was
husky with anger, or some other emotion.
" Life is worth something to every one," b
said.
"Honor is worth more," interposed Scotto.
" Death and the devil !" roared Hurdlestone,
" Do you presume to teach us what honor is ?"
" Too late for that !" sighed Scotto.
"Enter our service ; serve us as faithfully as
you have General Scott, and your life is saved,"
said Benedict.
" Never! never!'
" Luke Scotto, you will be hanged !",
"If you are not hanged, it will bo a singular
thing in the 'history of nations !" retorted the
scout, emphatically. " Your face, name, and
fame are alike known to me. In days to come,
the names of Beauregard, Davis, and a few oth-
ers, will be recorded with that of Benedict Ar-
nold, and held in the same contempt. That's
prophecy, you may depend on't !"
. Girdwood, at that moment, sound himself
standing near Miss-Hurdlestone. While the at.
tention of the other parties was fixed upon tho
prisoner, she whispered in his ear:
-' It isrBeauregard !"
Her eyes glanced intelligently at Benedict.
Another steadfast look at the compact figure of
the latter, fully assured Ralph that he was in
the presence of the distinguished rebel general,
and. he comprehended at once the significant
words of the scout.
The deportment of the man had perplexed
him from the first, but he was no longer a mys.
tery. He mastered his surprise, and his grate-
ful eyes thanked Hope Hurdlestone. While she
was present, he was forgetful of his own posi-
tion ; and he felt that her silent influence threw
a protecting shadow over the prisoner, whose
fate he now watched with the deepest interest.
",You are not here -to talk polities," said
Beauregard, whose assumed name we shall now
lay aside. "We want money and ammunition
more than Yankee sentiment. I will give you yet
another chance forlife. Your shrewdness will
soon tell you in what that chance consists You
might not have any objections to tellin -me
how many men General Scott has on the Po-
tomac ?"

r
0
0
b"
cc
te1
0

13


SCOTTO, THE SCOUT; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

" I bought, and then ag'in I moughtn't I" an-
swered, Scotto, with great self-possession.
" Think not that aniy recollections of Mexico,
on my part, will save you," added Beauregard.
"1We are engaged in a desperate struggle, and
a single life is as the fall of a leaf in the forest.
War will have its terrible dues. We will pay
tribute with our own blood and the blood of our
e enies. Valuable information, however, shll
he, rewarded. You hold in your hand the bal-
anee of life and death ; turn the scale which
way you will. You have free access to General
Scott.  You know his plans. Make a clean
breast, and a colonel's commission in the Con-
federate Army shall be yours, as soon as it can
be ratified by the'proper powers."
Beauregard folded bis arms upon his chest,
and looked steadily at the scout.
Scotto stood unmoved and motionless. His
sun-burned face kept sacredly the secret of his
thoughts till his lips were r. ady to speak them.
Every eye was fixed on him. H'pe Hurdle-
stone, with parted lipa and suppressed breath,
waited for his answer.
"1You are silent," said Beauregard, impa-
tiently.
The scout drew himself straight and firm as a
Virginia pine.
" I live and die under the old flag !" he said,
slowly and distinctly. " I want no commission
among rebels. I despise both the Treason and
the Traitor. The 'secrets that are within me,
you'll have to cut out with your bowie-knives ;
and I've heerd you're mighty handy with them
things. You hew down Union men like savages,
because they dare to have opinions of their
own. If you'd stop there, we could look upon
ye as half-civilized Ingins; but you  don't.
Helpless women have been whipped, imprison-
ed, and insulted. The North has no such rec-
ord of shame and outrage. Do you s'pose, sir,
Heaven'll bless sich a cause ? Wilt the God of
battles shet His eyes and let the bad passions of
men run wild ?   No, sir ! No! He planted-
this Republic, and He'llkeep it, though it run
red with blood ! What's death ? What's the
hangin' up of this six feet of flesh of mine, com-
pared with the mighty interests at stake ? Bring
out your halters. String up sueh loyal men as
you can lay hands on, and see what the end
on't'll be. Come on, traitors! I am ready !"
'es" You shall be hanged in ten minutes !" said
Beauregard, with compressed lips and scowling
brow.
" Thank ye, gen'ral! That's nine minutes
mare nor I expected," replied Scotto, compos-
edly. "I die for the Union!"
Filled with admiration for the scout, Ralph
Girdwood could no longer resist the impulse to
say something in his favor.
" Let me entreat you, sir, to save this brave
fellow," he said, addressing Beauregard.
"Spare your breath, sirI" replied the gener-

al, with freezing coldness and a-flash of the eye
that was far from encouraging.
. " Soldiers," said Hurdlestone, in a voice in
which no sympathy could be detected, "make
ready outside there."
Two or three of the men touched their caps,
and hastened with great apparent satisfaction to
obey this portentous order.
"For humanity's sake," began Ralph, with
much earnestness, when a keen and menacing
glance from Beauregard stopped him.
"I am obleeged to ye, young man," said
Scotto, " for daring to speak a word for me ; but
it's no use. A man who betrays his country
won't show marey. Benedict Arnold, you re-
member, was the worst on 'em all, arter he
went over to the Britishers. Should you ever
happen to see the old hero, Scott, tell him I've
kicked the air at last, and shan't bring him no
more news. Tell him, also, that there's a couple
o' boys that I've took care on for about a dozen
year, that may or mayn't be brothers, who'll
need lookin' arter, I bein' hung and gone.
They're with my scouting' Rangers, Peleg and
Pickerin' by name, and full o' fight by natur'.
I've no doubt the old gen'ral would help 'em,
some'at, should they come to want. I'd like to
be'decent buried, but I don't s'pose it'll make
any great odds whether one's body rests atop or
aneath the airth."
He paused an instant, and looking sternly at
Beauregard, said, interrogatively:
"There's no sich thing as shootin', I a'-
pose ?"
" The fate of the spy is fixed from time im-
memorial," answered Beauregard, lifting his
eyes with strange intensity upon Girdwood,
whose lips and cheeks grew white.
"Major Andr6 was hanged," mused Scotto.
"lHe was a fine fellow, too. I know a brace of
critters, travelin' that road, that the same can't
be said on."
"All ready !" said a voice at the door.
" Away with him I" ordered the general, per-
emptorily.
Before a hand could be laid upon Scotto,
Hope Hurdlestone sprang between him and the
soldiers.
" Perpetrate not such a crime !" she cried,
"Add not cold-blooded murder to your disloy-
alty. This man's death will aid you not. ()
General Beauregard, hear me, hear inc " She
sank upon her knees at his feet.
"Woman's natur' ak'in - woman's natur' 1'
murmured Scotto. " Good gal! good gal!"
Beauregard gently repulsed her, but she
grasped his hand and held it.
" You pain and embarrass me, Miss Hurdle-
.stone," he said, with some displeasure.
" Hope Hurdlestone," exclaimed her father,
sternly, " you disgrace me !"
" General-general !" added Hope, " heed my
request."

19


20

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

He must dic !" responded Beauregard, de- I a countersign, it was my duty to stop ye ; and
cieively.                                  resistin' me as you did, I nought have shot ye
$ So must you and I. Sentence is passed upon without violatin' the rules of the service, or be-
all. Let tot human wrath cut short the ap- in' called in question for it. As it has turned
pointed time of nature."                   out, I feel none the worse for keeping' my revolv-
Beauregard shook his head.               er in my belt."
" At least spare him till to-morrow or the day  Hurdlestone was pointing impatiently to a
I llowing ?" she continued, with touching elo- door which a soldier had thrown open.. Te
quence. "Do not this murder, now. You will scout, before moving, looked at Ecauregard.
sleep better to-night for listening to the voice of Sorrow and indignation seemed to be struggling
mercy.  You have shared our hospitality. in his countenance.
These hands have ministered to your wants.   " Touton Beauregard," he said, in a tone
Will you refuse this-the first favor I ask ? Re- strikingly impressive.
feet that you may sometime be without power,  " General Beauregard !" cried one, of tie
and lie at the mercy of another, as he at Black Horse boys, striking Scotto with his sa bre.
yours."           -                        " We snall have to teach you Federal nudsills
.Beauregard was moved. He could not look good manners."
with indifference at the beautiful pleader at his  Scotto snatched the weapon from uIim with a
feet.                                       sudden flash of his brawny hand, broke it in
"Say yes. Countermand the cruel order. twain, and threw it through an open window,
The prisoner shall have my room. You may with a silent scorn and. dignity that'rebuked
guard the house with a hundred soldiers, if them all.
yotwill; only spare h'm till to-morrow. Cooler  "Touch him not !" said Beauregard, shamed
Yment may give wiser counsel."         by an indignant glance from llope lurdlestone.
' You plead so gracefully, Miss Hurdlestone,"  "Touton Beauregard," resumed tlie scout,
he replied, "that I can refuse you nothing. I with precisely the same tone and nanirer with
yield to your wishes."                      which he had commenced, " I have refrained
Then, to the colonel:                     from speaking your name, because it leaves a
" Colonel, let the prisoner be closely guarded bitterness ou my tongue and in iy heart. It
irs your house. I make you responsible for his must be a rebuke to you to see before ye a man
safe-keeping till to-morrow. It will be as much who has fou't with you under the old-flag. It 11
as your commision is worth to let him escape." go ill with ye - ill enough with N e, arter a
Hurdlestone heard this order with a clouded while. Prehaps you can tell mt where and how
brow, and, with a rebuking glance a Hope, Benedict Arnold died 1"
gave the necessary order for the safe-keeping of  ," Take him away !" said time general, with his
theprisoner..                               eyes bent upon the floor. Then added, as Scot,
~~~e.                   to walked erect toward the room where he was
CHAPTER V.                   to be guarded :  "At ten o'clock, to-morrow morn-
GIRDWOOD'S MISSION.            ing !"
Luke Scotto heard the decision of the Con-  Hope shuddered.
federate general without perceptible emotion.  Colonel 1-urdlestone bowed gravely, and oni
A life of vicissitude and danger had so seasoned orderly immediately posted a strong guard al out,
his temper that the most startling episodes the house.
scarcely rufflid the surface of his soul. He was  "Young man," said the general, with a e l~t
a worthy type of that class so useful in great gesture to Girdwood. "come with rue.' -
crises, and whose deeds are historical. Though  Ralph followed the man of autho-rit I- t
rough in exterior, lie was able to appreciate. apartment that he had not seen, thI  :
things honorable to human nature, and to hold in which they had breakfasted, stad m i . - i
in eqnal detestation acts of treachery and cruel- of the house.  This apartment was ti-. in
ty.'by fifteen feet, and contained writing- i "
""For this short reprieve, young woman," he ered with papers, plans, and specificatii..  In'
said, "I thank you kind and hearty. To be walls were hung with maps and clhar-.  it
mire, one more day and night on the airth, an- whole arrangement was business-like ama mier-
et'er sunset and sunrise, mayn't be of special ly.'
a:snvice to me ; yet the intention on your part  It was the head-quarters of the Confederate
w 'a noble ani generous."                  General. Clerks ha l, evidently, recently I-emn
Thm'n, to Girdwood :                     Ibusy there; but their places were now vacant.'
" For a South-downer, there's more marey in  Stepping to nn open- window. he  maid to an
ye nor I expected to light on. I'm glad pny officer on tie piazza :
imllet didn't go no nearera head, that, not'stan'-  "Inform the prmsovotmars  1 that I may -r-d
in' the 1p'ison doctrines which are afloat, has some him prese t!y" 11- timn closed the wsimiw
rima ins of sens and r uson in't. But the debt and drew tiii e'r ,'.
isn't all on my side. Crain' upon me without  Ilph was now clone v.ti Mi. The general

r
't

SCOOTru, TIE SCOUT; Oi, i        u i)N .RANGERS.
sat down at a table, and resting his head in his Girdwood, coloring. 'I was quite unconscious
hands, seemed for a time lost in meditation; .of the construction that might be .put upon my
forgetful, apparently, that any one was present. Words. Heaven forbid that I shoul assassinate
Girdwood remained standing, waiting patient-, even an enemy, much less oi to w iom I come
ly to be noticed. Presently, growing weary of for preferment."
inertia, lie began to move about, believing-that  " Use it !" said Beauregard, briefly.
the general had, in truth,'become so speculative  Ralph cut the lining of his coat and cap, and
that nothing short of sound could arouse him. drew therefrom papers ingeniously concealed ;
He paused beside a desk, andhis gaze mechanic- papers of.a fabric so thin and light, that they
ally rested on a folded parchment, on which almost floated in the air like gossamer. He-laid
were written these words:                  .them before the g-neral, who opened and ex-
"A PLAN OF'TE MASKED BATTERIES AT BULL RUN."  amined them.
His eyes were irresistibly drawn to this docu-  .cThese, unquestionably," he said, " are from
ment.                                      the friends of the new Confederacy. Do you
" Young man !" said the general, sharply.  know their contents ?"
Ralph looked up in some confusion, and per-  "I may guess of their nature, but of them def-
ceived that Beauregard was observing him.   initely and in detail, I know little or nothing,"
lie approached the table and stood full under answer d Girdwood.
the scrutiny of the officer, who now appeared a  "I can do little for Maryland at present,"
different personage than Doctor Benedict.   sail Beal regard, thoughtfully.  " There are
'-Do you think, sir, we are in earliest down liany ready to take arms if the flag could be
.ere ?" he asked, with searching severity of planted there with sufficient force.  But the
manner.                                     time has ntot yet come. Let them wait patient-
" Without doubt!" answered Ralph, recover- ly, and we will, per chance, send theimt aid snd
ing his equanimity.                         comfort froi WV shington itself."
"Do you think we can keep our own counsel?"  Girdwood remained silent.'
added Beauregard, in a firm tone, depressing  " These papers," added the general, " vouch
his brows a little.                        for their writers v but scarcely for the bearer of
"I think You can, sir."                  them. What is your purpose?"
"I can, sir-I can ! . I would burn my coat,  " To remain within your lines and take service,
sir, if I thought it was in sympathy with my if any. offers agreeable to my wishes " he re-
secrets. Men may come here dn frivolous er- sponded.
rands, thinking to go back with my plans ; but  " You think you can carry a sword better
they are more likely to return to mother earth." than a musket ?" returned the general, saree-
iBe paused, with his penetrating glance still tically. "Well, there are many that think so.
fixed on Ralph.                             I could soon form an. army of officers. But there
" What is your business, sir ?" le asked ab- is more merit in being a good soldier than a poor
ruptly.                                     officer. You seem inclined to take this matter
"I- bring letters and dispatches from Balti- very coolly. Your heart is not enough with us
more and Washington, frome those who syinpa- to fall into the ranks, I dare say ?"
thize with our cause," replied Ralph, with    " Iconfess that I am, like others, desirous of
promptne-s.                                 preferment. I believe I can 'do more efficient
" Your cause I have yet to know. Give me duty than in the ranks. That, howevers'sia
the dispatebes."'                          be judged of by those in authority."
" Lend me your sword a moment, general,"   "You dre strangely without enthusiasm. We
-said Ralph.                                want those who are willing to meet the Northern
The general gave him another of those looks foe in any capacity, however humble._ You can
that were like the sharp thrusts of a bayonet.  remain here till I know more about you. But I
" I never surrender my sword, though I may must inform you that you cannot wander at lib-
someti ies lend its point."                erty among our works. Y ou will keep within
The generals sword was lying on the table, the limits of this farmhouse, nor attempt to pass
at his elbow. He unsheathed it, and presented the guards on any pretext whatever."
the hilt to Girdwood, allowing the polished-steel  " You mean that I am a prisoner!" exclaim-
to slip slowly through his fingers as -th'e young ed Girdwood, in real or affected surprise.
nait received it with a bow; but those eyes  "I mean not exactly that; bu't-" he addea,
never left him. He smiled, too, somewhat dis- significantly-" you will transcend my wishes at
dainrfully, as Ralph held the shining blade ex- your own personal risk. I do not say, young
tended, watching with admiring eyes its excel-' man, that you are not what you profess to be;
lent workmanship.                           but we cannot afford to hazard the fortunes of
- " You are not over-modest, sir, in your re- war on a mere matter of courtesy.. The daugh.
quests, as you leave me unarmed," remarked ter of our host, I dare say, will make you some
eicauregard, carelessly.                   amends for the restriction I lay upon you."
"..4 thousand pardons, general I" answered  "May I ask how long I am to be a prisoner 1.


22              SCOTTO,, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.
" Till those arrive who will pronounce on I Hope. Then, in a lower tone : "Il suspect that
your goo i or bad faith. I daily expect some of your own position may not be a safe one."
the writers of these very letters."  He struck  "May I ask why, Miss Hurdlestone ?"
the missives with his white fingers as he spoke,  '"Because I perceive that you are un object
and a slight flush appeared upon Girdwood's of suspicion. My father evidently doubts your
cheeks. "You will then,'l he deliberately add- sincerity ; and I marked that even the commoa
ed, "go hence to an, appointment in the Con- soldiers frowned upon you. Some of the Black
federate Army, or-"   He stopped, his lips Horse dragoons talked of you and shook .their
curled, and he made an imperious motion up- heads while you were with the general. I hope
ward with the forefinger of his right hand.  your interview has been satisfactory ?"
Ralph Girdwood affected not to see or feel  She watched his countenance anxiously
this pantomime ; but, in truth, he was much im-  "'I cannot tell you what the general thinks.
pressed by it.                             He is remarkably reticent."
"There, Mr. Girdwood," said the general,   "And you will find him cunning as a serpent,
anon, "we have done with one anotherjor the also. You need not confess, in words, our Joy.
present. When next we refer to these matters, alty to the old flag ; but ii you would have my
ma it be wi h more satisfaction. You will find poor assistance, a look, a motion,.may suffice."
Colonel Hurdlestone where you left him, doubt- There was a modest drooping of her eyes as
less."                                     she spoke, but her earnestness wvas manifest.
lie waved his hand toward the door, his cal-  "I know which way the vane of   e our own
culating manner came back again, and Girdwood heart turns ; it points to the North, like the
passed from the apartment much more thought- magnetic needle. There is both truth and beau-
Au than when he entered it.                ty in your devotion to the starry banner," he
said.
Ralph looked down. He dared not meet her
CHAPTER VI.                   too inquisitive eyes. He felt sure that if lie hal
H OPE AND nRALPH.                a secret,. however important, it would be ci-
Returning to the apartment where he had dangered by her qulestioning glances.
breakfasted, Ralph fQund Hope Hurdlestone     " I have nothing to confess," lie added, a mo-
there. The colonel was absent, attending to his ment after. " My purpose has already been do-
military duties. He was glad of this meeting. elared."
Under ordinary circumstances, there would    "Nay, Mr. Girdwood, there is no need that
have been a charm in her presence ; and, aitu- you should sully your truth, with me. Say
ated as he then was, hemmed in with embarrass- nothing--admit nothing, that there may be no
ments, suspected, and watched, the charm was falsehood between is. Excuse my freedom. In
greatly enhanced. Her face was the only friend- affairs of life and death, some liberty must be
y andgentle one he had yet seen in the rebel allowed. I know what you are. I know why
camp. He instinctively turned to her for sym- you are here., I know .you are -in that most
pathy. and strength. Some restraint, however, dangerous character of a-"  She stopped, look.
was upon him, for they were yet but strangers ; ed at the windows and Girdwood, and a(ldtl:
and, in times of strife, when the caldron of " You can supply the word ; three letters spell
human passions seethes with hate and death, too it. Your changing cheek tells that I have
much confidence is often of the most serious touched the secret. Be assured that you are
*onsequenee.  That they should regard each playing a most hazardous game. I know not
othe-r a moment in mutual -uncertainty; was a how you came into possession of those die--
matter naturally growing out of the situation.  patches referred to by my father, but yonder am-
For Ralph Girdwood to gaze at Hope Hur- bitious and crafty man will ferret it out, you
dlestone, was to endanger his safety-not his may rely upon it. His agents come and go like
personal safety, but the peace and quiet of his invisible 'spirits. His messengers are always
bitherto-uncaptivated heart.  He felt that lie astir. Copies of documents written at Washing-
had disoovere4 one at whose feet he would ton in the morning, are often in his hands at'
cheerfully east all the love-treasures of his soul. night. He has, spies in every department. and
This feeling had come upon him at the instant in every camp and fortress. A daughter of Vir-
of seeing her, and grown stronger with every ginia, true to the Union, advises you to improve
kour; and be feared that he might shock her by the first opportunity of escape."
a sudden betrayal of the same.  -            Miss Hurdlestone spoke in a voice low and
" I have to t hank you, Miss Hurdlestone, for guarded.S
sour efforts for that poor fellow," lie said, ad-  "You take much for granted," replied Gird-
vaaeing. " However much I may believe in wood, with a forced smile, "but the motive is so
the Confederacy, I cannot see the necessity of pure that I am flattered by your fears. If what
such summary dealing with a brave man."    you affirm were triu:, to pass these trebly-guard
S"Watch the windows, Mr. Girdwood, for sen- ed lines woul. be an undertaking- of extreme
,VaeU have ears as well as eyes," answered danger. For the kindness and aid that I may

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

4

r
.,
"
F
r
.i
S

epeet at your hands, without any particular
elaim upon either, I am most deeply grateful.
Will you permit me to think that we are
f  P'
"If you love the old flag, we are friends," she
Answered, with a flush of enthusiasm. "But
about this brave fellow," she added, quickly,
pointing to the room where Scotto was secured.
"He must escape 1"
" Exactly my own thought, Miss Hurdlestone.
I see no necessity of sacrificing such a life. How
to assist him, however, is a matter of much per-
lexity. I have great faith in your sagacity, and
his cool judgment and quick hand. Once out-
side this house, there will be.a strong probabil-
ity in his favor."
" There is another who may be useful in this
endeavor. You will distrust my judgment when
I inform you that I trust the fidelity of the
black, Dagon."
Hope Hurdleston smiled.
Just then the shadow of a sentinel moved
slowly across the window-panes.
"Your opinion is of more weight than mine;,
but I certainly should be disposed to doubt
him, after hearing, as I did, his grotesque views,
pf the North, as drawn forth ,by the colonel,
your father."  -
" Believe not half you-hear from Dagon and
Haimon.   They are wiser than they .seem.
Duplicity is taught the blacks from childhood
by the stern lessons of servitude."-
Both Hope and Ralph now stood facing the
widows that opened on the piazza. Whenever
theyisaw the automatic (figure of a sentinel,
they stopped speaking, and went on when his
short rounds took him out of sight.
"Dat's true, Missy Hurd'stone !" said a voice
behind them, that startled Ralph not a little.
" Dat's true as the book of the Gospils ! But,
Missy Hope, what makes ye for to go on in dis
yer way? This am a ha'uted house. Dar am
ghosts in the body, that walk 'bout and has
ears. You's been talking' treason a heap, and I
list crep' in and heerd it by dar back door."
It was Dagon who thus surprised them.
"No matter, Dagon, so long as you were the
only listener," said Miss Hurdlestone, without
apparent apprehension.
" Dat, yer a'n't no s'cuse, missy," persisted
Dagon, in a very serious manner. " You's too
good for to be found out and cotched up by the
'ceshers. I knows I's a contraban'; but the
children o' darkness is sometimes wiser nor the
children o' light."
Ralph heard these wojds with secret consterna-
Ron and dread. His onfidence in the black
was not equal to the influence which he believ-
ed he might. exert on Hope and himself. Nor
could lie forget the catechism of the morning,
in which Dagon had expressed his loyalty to his
master and the South.
Miss Iurdlestone, perceiving his apprehen-

shone,"and suspecting rightly their cause, hasteu-
ed to allay them.
"Fear not Dagon," she said.  He is one of
the faithful'among the unfaithful. I would trust
him with my life."
" res ye, Missy Hope, you might well say
that yer 1" interposed Dagon, with a visible
deepening of his voice and feelings. " You is
the only cretur that keeps me 'wong do 'cesh,
anyways. You see I isn't what I was. I's no
longer a nigger, nor a chattel, but a contraban'.
Now these yer contraban's, missy, can go any-
whar they wants to. I 'spect we's alleys been
contraban's, but nobody tole us. Abe Linkura
was the fust man thatgive us the 'telligence, and
I pray the Lor' in his massy to bress him for it,
whether he be black or white ; though Mas'r
Hurd'stone says he's black as the aceo' cards,
and that Missus Linkum is the same. Though,"
added Dagon, with a puzzled look, ItI don't see
how that is, as she's got a brudder in the 'cesh
army, white as anybody."
"Is it possible, Miss Hurdlestone," asked
Ralph, smiling, "that such absurd stories are
circulated in the seceding States "
"Not only circulated, but believed," replied
Hope. "It was hardly good manners, Dagon,
to steal upon us in this fashion," she added. " If
I did not know your fidelity, I should be serious-
ly displeased with you. You heard our conver-
sation ?"
"'Bout every swyllable, missy-'bout every
swyllable, I should reekin' I" answered Dagon,
coolly. "But it's safe-safe as a bigger in a
swamp afore he's missed. Dis yer contraban'
was list on the look-out for ye, and that's the
truth. Tie colonel hisself, might come 'pon you
onawar's ; but lie couldn't do it while dis yer
nig was watching . Then the sogers, with the
one- pronged forks on dar guns, might been put-
tin' dar ,cars to one place and another, whar
they hadn't no business."
".Well, Dagon, since you know what we were
talking of, what is your opinion of the matter ?
She looked toward the room in which was
Scotto.
"I's drefful 'feard, missy, he'll wear the hemp
collar. 'F Is found tryin' to help him off,
shouldn't stan' no chance 't all. Judges and
juries isn't for colored folks. It's the drawia'
of a pistle, the running' up of a rope, or the
whizzing' of a whip; and that's all the law we
gits. Don't aspectt it's Abe Linkum hisself, shut
up dar, does ye ? That caut be, nother, 'cause
Mas'r would knowed him. But that don't make
no odds. He's in trouble, and I's boun' to help
him. So, niissy, you can count on dis yer eon-
traban ,
"What with General Beauregard, what with
your father, and what with the sentries that un-
round the house, the chances of the prisoner-
are small," observed Ralph, reflectively. "No
one, Miss Hurdlestone, can gain aeess to him


SCOTTO, THE SCOUT; OR.THE UNION RANGERS.

so rea lily as yourself.  You are famuia' wii
tha house, the various doors and windows, ite
hlisits of those whoe orne and go, and the situ-
atia  of the adjacent grounds.   Ta door, i
beli ye, does not coammn'sccate directly withite
icouit ?"
" A airro.v hall lies between it and the door
op n'ia; intj the roan waee he is scared, -anci
wain iis icar cly: in the rear of that occupied
by ciuc p;;a r rL.  A sentinel, you observe, paces
thi o,):.i ji o 1wir his' eyes ca-i at- any tiue
b3 tL  . mlt) .V  1 t:a pris )aer's door.  At night.
the  l i sLy c i d abtlese be increased by a
'83a;i:1  t   h .lLl,' aaswers I ifop3.
.iar ii  will b: ov'erlooke I or fors ttei that
cat i  iselbite to his sfe-lkeeping," sat hRlinh.'
-- i'ce is bat a 'single wiala' in- hi ro as,
a:l tit, u ifortas'ately, has woo  cea sihatters
fut i. i; upa the outside,-and which, far al-
dtt,iil s.e tlty, have been ilaileil.  Even dmir-
in; t'e hy, -his little prison. etimnot- be - very
lint; wIle il the night the darnfess 'ill pro.
Vast Ii. a  '- a inuiin- a -sueesi'ad unai led ef-
fnr.   Vt i ill thetss obstables in the way, Ilia
lihi'ien, I ecafess, see:as a t'skc of no easy
ac1 n, a1 iaet."
i        "C0 l 4 ed-Inrirpnngly -at Girdwo.od. who
8l )tC isis t!ead with undis'guiei, dubiousness..
lb p.1 sto1so sl ing profoundly.  H" chafed
his s  1y forehes 1, p!l ite 1 'down - his wool with-
his e) i3 wve P ihnl, cJlled his eyes, rested his
wmig it o:s oal foot, then oil the other, and labor-
e 1 heavily in thought.  While the black was
tlis mentally sweating, the parties' were star-'
Mal1 h  a r' h voice otslid  exelaimin:

swa.apj f inr, and an utter stranger to the ba
msga :u llieue of a careful toilet.
kite cap mounted upon his niatted poll, and
whice seene i a permanent, fixture there, was of
a conaledcut,-doubiful age, And drawn tightly
agloiuhis head. He wore a greasy gray blouse
that lung loosely upon his burly body, while
his baggy vtrowsers naturally suggested Turks
and Zouaves, and other loose peopie.
lie arms were a short rifle, a brace of Colt's
navy-size- pistols, and a long bowie-knife.
The boys that followed this strong decoction
of "-Kentuek, South Carline,' Texas, and old
Missi," were very simnply-clad - their entire
waridrube consisting of four narticles.: cap, shirt.
trowsers, and brogans, .each in an advanced
state of service. These lads were thirteen or
fourteen years of age, of the same height, but
bearing 'no resemblance in feature an, expres-
sion, One had a drum slung over his shoulders
and the other a fife tucked under his arm.
The man in the blouse dropped the butt'of
his rifle upon the floor, stared a moment at
Hope and Ralph, and cried out, in an explosive
voice':
"What ye doin' hyar?"
This was tin uinexcepted and novel salutation,
and neither of the parties to whom it appeared
to be addressed were prepared to answer it.
"Humph! Dumb, I allow," added the in-
truder. Then to the boys.: " Strike up, chaps
-strike up ! Give 'em Dan !'
The drum began to rattle, and the fife to
squeak, and the nondescript to sing :

"$tia  I away from hyar!  Git out o my day-     With one leg up and t'other leg down-"
light, yon Virginnv .coons ! Make room  for a
live wildcat!  Yo'ir kurnel sent' me hyar, and  "Hole up, dar! hole up!" shouted Dagon,
I'm gwine in, if I have to use my claws fort. advancing, with remonstrating gestures. "-Mas's
I'm Kantiek, Soath Car'line, Texas, and old Hurd'stone don't 'lot no sich gwine on as die
Missip b'ile I down,"                         yer."
B.f're Gircdw )o(dhid recovered from  the ef-  The drum and fire became'silent.
feat of tIesa w ir l, a singular-looking man en-  " Bow-wow !" barked the free -and-ea sy strang-
tered, folio ye 1 by two boys.             .er, in a very abrupt and stridulous mannes,
diving at the negro in a grotesque fashion.
CHAPTER. VII.                  "Go''way, nig! Don't speak to white folks.
It's yoti long-armed apes that's kicked up the
ZADOC. MURCH.                 muss."  Then turning from Dagon, as if he
The man who thus unceremoniously present- were too insignificant for contempt, even, he
ed hinself to,Miss Hurdlestone' and Girdwood, again addressed Hope and Ralph:
was of lw srtire, but sturdily built. He was  '"Didn't expect me, did ye ? Didn't know I
of a rest tr able breadth across the' shoulders war cumin,' I s'pose ?"
an-l cest, with an unusuallylarge -development  " We certainly did not," answered hope,
of misele, which- was specially noticeable in smiling, now more amused than alarmed.
the mi' us and tawny hands.  His face was broad,  "Prehaps you don't. know me r" he contin-
in f.ly covered by a long, red beard, shagry ued, looking at Miss Hurdlestone inquiringly,
and unkempt. .Isis mouth, in extent, niiglit be his small ey-s twinkling with rough humor.
Semlpared to a cruel, transverse gash -between  " Not in the least," said Hope.
the nose and chin. His eyes were- small anc1   "Waill, I'm several States b'iled down ! Pm
cunning, far back in their sockets, while the a. strong tea for abolition sickness! I'm a
lashes and brows were nearly white., His fore- screamin' wildcat for ketchin' Yankee mice !
head was not of the Northern schoolmaster I'm a Confed. I'm Zadoc Murch."
type, but low and determined. His head was a   These formidable announcements did not se

ti
S'S
r
1"

'


i

x
n
i
4

27

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

auoh confound the young woman as the man I  "Be patient, good fellow I You shall have
had anticipated.                            enough of it, by-and-by," replied Beauregard
Girdwood, however, was less pleased with this with great good-nature. "Let them first ste')
familiarity, and was about to rebuke him, when on our trencher and .spring our trap, man !"
he dropped carelessly into a chair, adding:   "The springs '11 rust, if you let it set too
"Give me sometime' to swalier, gal, and long," said Zadoe.
some'at to chaw."                             Hurdlestone lifted his shoulders in his own
The cool -assurance of Zadoe Murch chased peculiar fashion.
the gathering shadow from  Girdwood's brow.   " We'reenough for them-quite enough for
Perceiving that a character was before him, his them, Nr. Murch," answered Beauregard, quick-
better sense brought him good-huimor.       ly. " We feel, alreatly, the prestige of victo-
"Drum and fife,'' quoth Zadoe, looking be- ry."  He glanced  at Hope and Girdwood.
nignantly at the lads, " down on your haunches "McClellan is rushing - to destruction in West-
and rest. Make yourselves to home. This is ern Virginia. 1 am  hourly expecting to hear
a Confed shanty, and we're Confed critters. that he is cut to pieces."
Well all one. There's no distinction, 'cept   Zadoe grunted very gruffly.
with niggers. We're brothers all, from 'the lee-  "What do you mean by that?" said the rebel
test to the biggest. He's a brother, she's a sis- leader, sharply.  "Garnet and Pegram  will
ter ''-he pointed at Hope and Ralph-" and prove a match for McClellan and Roseieranz.
we're all fightin' for wool and cotton-nigger I hold the skill and courage of these Yankee of-
wool, and nigger cotton. These toddlers "-he fliers in light esteem."
made a suggestive motion to the lads-" these  "That's whar you're wrong, gin'ral. Garnet
toddlers, white folks, are  game  chickens. and Pegram won't lick 'em !" added Zadoc.
Knowed 'em when they's jest from  the egg.    " I'll slake my epaulets on it !" interposed
They've come up from Richmond to see the, Hurdlestone, glancing contemptuously at the
fun, and pound and squeak for me and the so- last speaker.
gers."                                        "And why won't they whip them ?" asked
He pauseda moment.                       Beauregard, studying the brown    visage of
"   har's the kurnel?  Whar's the gin'ral ?"  Murch.
Just then, Colonel Hurdlestone entered. He  "Look 'e hyar !" cried the latter, stretching
exhibited surprise and some confusion on seeing out the bundle of muscles that composed has
Zadoc Murch, who stretched out his hand, with- right arm. -' Look 'e hyar !" The arm subsid.
out rising, and said:                       ed to its former position.
" Give ua a shake, hoss !"                 "'Well." said Beauregard, uneasily, while the
They shook hands, Hurdlestone performing colonel gnawed his lip with. impatience.
that ceremony somewhat stiffly.               " Thar's a reason for everything, gin'ral.
"Sooner nor you expected, I allow.  Pre- They can't whip 'em,-'cause they're whipped
haps I've traveled, kurnel ! Prehaps I've been theirselves. The Feds has -swept Western Vir-
to places!' Prehaps not !"   4         .   ginny I Garnet's dead, and Pegram's a prison.
He shook and nodded his head mysteriously, er !"
then looked steadily at the floor.           Zadoc'east his eyes quietly about the room,
"All's well down hyar, I reckon ?"       to observe the-effect of his news on the differ-
"Excellently well," said Hurdlestone.    ent parties.
" Most ready to fight? Can't stan' it much  The rebel leader stood silent and dismayed.
longer without a scrimmage, kurnel," continued Hurdlestone flushed with anger and unbelief.
Zadoc.                                -       " Death and fury 1" he muttered. "It's false
" Here comes one who can tell you more of as hell !"
these matters than I," replied Hurdlestone. As  . Murch arose to his feet.
he spoke, the Confederate general crossed the  "Look 'e hyar 1" he shouted. " Whar's the
threshold, seeing no one in the room, apparent- lie? I take that -up! I take it up now and
ly, but Zadoe Murch, who thrust forth his. big hyar. Go outside along o' me 1"
brown hand as coolly as before, and, not in the Zadoo took up his rifle and started for the
least abashed, said:'                      door, as if everything were fully arranged for a
" How-do,. gin'ral ?  Proud to see ye. All deadly settlement.
right ! No ceremony atween friends. Two lit-  Beauregard stepped forward, seized the burly
tle Confeds-them be."  He nodded at the lads. fellow by the shoulder, and faced.him abont
"Leetle vessels, but running' over with rebellion. with a single motion. It was a display of
There's fun, fight, treason, and music in 'em. strength that filled Murch with admiration and
They'll play ' March to Boston ' for ye, or surprise.
Bunkum Hill, another. We sha'n't keep much   "Wall, that beatisold-Missip! You're a rum
longer, gin'ral ; we're sp'ilin' for a fight. Have un, B'uregard ! You're the hours to lead us ! I
to sprinkle a trifle of cheercoal over us, I al- declar' if you ain't some persimmons ! Le' me
low."                                      look at that ar?"


28          SCOTTO, THE SCOUT; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

Zadoc laid hold of the general's arm with as
little reverence as if it had been a fire-arm, felt
the muscles, and examined the small, white hand
carefully and curiously.
" Thar's a mistake hyar I" he said, sliaking
his head skeptically. "'Thi war not the. thing
that done it. Hook hold on me ag'in."
The Confederate chief good-liumoredly took
himby the arm and spun him round like a top.
"All right !" said Zadoc, manifestly quite satis-
fied and relieved, as well as forgetful of his
wrath toward' Hurdleston. ." Them's the pat-
ent double-action fingers, though they ain't big-
ger nor a woman's."
A momentary glow of pride appeared on
Beauregard's face. He had been noted for his
strength.
" Friend Murch," he said, his mind instantly
reverting to the intelligence he had just heard,
are you sure that you are not deceived ?"
" Sure as a rifle-cannon ! If thar war any
doubt, I should told ye. Kurnel Garnett was
shot while tryin' to rally his men, and thar war
bad work. Soon arter, Pegrani, who was wan-
derin'- about in the mountains, caved in, and
trott.d into the Yankee camp with a thousand
men. They did so, gin'ral !"
Girdwood saw Hurdlestone frowning at Jiis
daughter, whose face expressed anything but
grief.
" A thousand prisoners !" mutter ed Beaure-
gard.
" Which were let go on their peril of honor,"
interposed Zadoe.
Looking up, the general saw a smile on Hope's
lips, and tried to quell her with his eyes, but was
discomfited, and smiled himself.
" The otlth of allegiance !" sneered Hurdle-
store. " They hanged the officers, I suppose ?"
" No-; but they embalmed one on 'em,, and
sent hiii, to his friends in a nice lox."
llurdlestone was confused.
" I believe little," he said, " in Northern cour-
tesy and mercy."
- Nobody axed you tol" retorted Zadoe.
Wh keers for their courtesy or niassy ?. But
the Feds war fools, though, in p'int o' common'
senae, to let their prisoners go arter takin' a
sw'a.- all round. Why, I sometimes sw'ar by
the tour together, and think nothing' on't. They
call this the peril of honor, the Feds do, 'cause
if they're cotched in arms, arterward, they'll
be shot."
" Their parole will not, in all cases, be re-
spected, I think," said Hurdlestone, with a
shrug.
" What are you going to do with these boys,
Mr. Much ?" asked the general..
" I'm gwine to l'arn 'em to be wise as sar-
pents. I'm gwine to train'em up to thump and
squeak right among the cannon-balls. it's a
private band, you see. I have 'em the same a
you have your bottle o' wine at dinner. In ba,

tIe, they're to trot arter me with their drum and
fife, playing' 'Dan Tucker' for dear afe. That's
why them's boys is hyar. Long's kin hearbthe
tap o' the drum and the squeak o' the fife.,
there'll be mischief and motion in me It a
Minie ball or a round shot should tumble me
over, jest squeak and pound a beetle louder, and
I'll up and at it ag'in."
"Come with me, Zadoc," said the general;
4 and you, also, clonel."
The Confederate chief lingered a moment on
the threshold, looked searchingly at Girdwood
and Miss Hurdlestone, then thoughtfully retired
to that apartment which had so many secrets,
and kept them so well, followed by the colonel
and Zdoc Murch.
CHAPTER VIII.
TiE MASKED BATTERIES OF MANAS SAS.
Girdwood passed the dpy as well as he could
in the circumscribed limits assigned him. Some-
times standing on the open piazza, he watched
the streamsof Confederate soldiers flowing and
fluctuating this way and that ; sometimes lie
east his eyes inquiringly up the Run, wondering
why so much animation pervaded it ; sometimes
he noted officers, in gay uniforms, appearing
and disappearing mysteriously in the woods;
sometimes he listened to the vague niurniur of
camps ; sometimes the blast of the bugle echoes
through the hills and valleys, with a wild yet
stirring effect ; sometimes he marked messen-
gers coming in hot haste to the head-quarters
of the rebel chief ; and sometimes he listened'
to the light step of Hope Hurdlestone within.
Random pistol and musket shots ; occasion-
ally the boom of cannon, with near or distant
bursts of martial music, mingled with muffled
voices ; the sound of busy axes, and the crash
of falling trer a far in the depths of the forest,
all conspired to give him a lively impression of
the realities of war and the zeal of the Confed-
erates.
He saw the sun set, at length, with a feeling of
relief on the imperfectly-seen and comli're,hend-
ed activities of the Run. As the dimness of
evening fell, the guard was doubled, and their
vigilance increased. A sentinel was stationed
in the narrow hall, near Scotto's door. His
hope for the scout waned as he beheld these
precautions. He mentioned his fears to Miss.
Hurdleston, whose despondency Was greater
than his own. From Beauregard he had re-
ceived no further attention. That important
personage, on whom centred so many thoughts
and expectations, had been busy several hours
with his clerks ; while the colonel was absent,
scouring the country with the Black Horse
Rangers. His absence might be protracted
through the night, or he might appear at any
moment.
. One of Zadoc's boys was found asleep in'the
hall. The sentinel shook him ; but he was se

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

1
t
f
'i
f

29

pitiably weary and drowsy. that, after being I
shaken awhile, he was allowed to slumber on,
with his drum beside him.
Ralph breathed a few words of encourage-
ment to Hope. but with so little enthusiasm that
they failed of their purpose. He was conscious
of being little else than a prisoner himself, and
this feeling was equally well understood by her
Whether within or without, he knew he was ob-
served, and that knowledge was so annoying to
his pride, that he sought solitude in the chamber
that had been allotted him, utterly despairing
of being of any service to the unfortunate scout,
whose firm tread he could occasionally hear be-
neath him. Although his mind had much to
occupy it, his own safety among other consider-
ations, lie could not help thinking of the pris-
oner doomed at ten in the morning. Earnestly
he deplored the stern usages of war that ren-
dered such sacrifices necessary, or, at least,
sanctioned them with belligerent powers. He
did not thiuk: of repose, but sat with his face
buried in his hands, pondering upon the dark
scenes about to open upon the Old Dominion
and other hitherto peaceful-States. Once or
twice lie heard a fife squeaking shrilly various
negro melodies, but did not heed it. Several'
plans for the rescue of the loyal scout came and
went,; but lie was painfully conscious that his
position was too critical to compromise it by
any possibly apparent interference.
In the quietude and darkness he remained
some hours, without any particular realization
of the passage of time.'
'Some one entered his chamber. Raising his
head, he perceived a figure, dim, and scarcely
distinguishable in the obscurity. This figure
must have stolen up very softly, for he heard
nothing until a moccasined foot tapped lightly
on the floor.
" Are ye hyar ?" asked a voice, which, though
quite recognizable, was pitched on a soft and,
seemingly, cautious key.
" I am here," answered.Girdwood, falling in--
to the same tone, and feeling quietly for his
side-arms.     ,
"What do you want?"
"If I'd a wanted to harm ye, could done it-
couldn't 1?" responded 'Murcl. "Stood look-
in' a minute afore I made a noise. Thinkin' a
good deal, ain't ye ? Prehaps it's the gal; pre-
haps ag'in, it's other things?"
Ralph knewnot whether to resent this famil-
iarity or pass it over ; the latter course seemed
the wisest. He was about to give a careless re-
ply, when Zadoc added:'
"W hy don't you air your legs, some'at?
There's a bit o' moon in the sky, a shimmerin'
like pale silver on the woods. Let's walk."
"Really, Mr. Murch," said Girdwood, consid-
erably embarrassed in view of the restriction
laid upon him, " I scarcely feel like walking to-
night. -I am not well, I believe."

Zadoe s wide gash of a mouth seemed to grow
wider with a cunning smile.
' I know your health's awful delikit .Lut I
thought that preliaps a sight of ' our works
moughtn't do ye no harm !" he answered.
"1, should liketo see them; but-but-"
Ralph hesitated, for it was revolting to his
pride to confess the truth.
i" Look 'e hyar !" Murcli dallied with his huge
bowie-knife. The young man looked,'but saw
nothing unusual. A bushy figure loomed up
before him, and that was all.
"Now is your time! Come with ne! I'm
wildcat! ' I'm Kentuck, Carline, Texas, and old
Missip b'iled down. I'm a bitter tea for any
one as molests me. Come along!"
"It's impossible !" answered Girdwood, im-
patiently, arising, and standing face to face with
Murch.
" Thar's no sich word as that ar in my Chioe-
taw dictionary," answered Zadoc. "Wliat I sets
my mind on, I do, lnd nothin' on airth can stop
me. Trust in a Mississip;valley crocodile. and
;ome arter me without fear. And, stop! Look 'e
hyar! If a guard speaks, to ye, say'* Warren-
ton.' Warrenton will take 'em down. TlIar's
nothin' can stan' Warrenton hyar to-night."
Girdwood was surprised; but adjusting his
arms, lie followed Zadoc Murch, who added, as
they crossed the threshold :
" You needn't take pa'ins to step louder nor
nat'ral, for B'uregard is at his dietatin' and writ-
in' yet. He's allers late to bed, and liar's no
need o' disturbin' him."
Girdwood descended the stairs full of doubt
and uncertainty, and treading very lightly. A
bayonet stopped hii at the door. He whisper-
ed " Warrenton." The glittering steel quivered
an instant, then dropped, and lie passed on.
Another line of sentinels was passed in the same
manner.
"Now," said Mureh, "we'll go up the ravine.
We shall now and then 'be challenged ; but you
know what to say."
Zadoe, leading with steady, assured -steps,
crossed the Warrenton Road and struck into the
woods. The ground was uneven, lying in irreg-
ular swells, with occasionally sharp hills and
deep valleys.' They reached a stream or run,
dry in most places, but with here and there a.
pool of stagnant water.
Girdwood began to feel a strange hum of life
around him.
" Look thar !" said Zadoe, pointing with his
brown finger.
"I see nothing," replied Ralph, " but an in-
distinct maze of shrubbery."
"Do you hear nothing ?" pursued Zadoc.
"Yes, voices, and the hum of human pres-
ence," said Ralph.
" Come on !" added Murch.
"I smell the smoke of smould'ing amp.
I fires," said Ralph.


1

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

" Who goes there ?" cried a sentinel.
" Friendss" answered both.
Advance, friends, and give the counter-
sign."
nWrrenton !"
" Warrenton goes. Pass, friends I
" What do ye see hyar ?" asked Mureb. His
great aim lifted slowlyaand fixedly indicating a
certain point.
"rA masked battery !" replied Girdwood.
Zadoe Murch turned and strode on.
"Look yonder."
"I see a wall of brush," replied Ralph, and his
eccentric guidestalked 'on again. The word
" Warrentomi" seemed omnipotent.
"What do ye see now ?" -
A masked battery, and dying camp-fires !"
The broad figure of Zadoe Mureh pushed for-
ward through the oak openings. The white
moonlight fell upon him- as he moved on. A
hundred-two hundred yards, were traversed.
" Thar !" said Zadoe, abruptly- swinging his
chubby arm in a certain direction. "What
now?"
" Some dried limbs, and the tall, undulating
grass," said Ralph.
Another short walk and another pause.,
"What ag'in ?"   1
" Masked batteries, camps, and dying camp-
fires !"
Zadoc glanced at his companion, filled his
mouth with tie strong Indian weed, and chew-
ing it savagely, resumed his steady course on-
ward.
Soldiers started up from sleep and fell back
heavily. A few restless ones looked after them
dreamily; while now and then an acquaintance
gave Murci rough greeting, or semt after him
words of badinage., To these the man gave
little heed. He seemed absorbed. Some over-
powering thought was evidently working in his
mind.
"What place is this ?" questioned Girdwood.
" The way to Manassas !" replied Mureb.
The young man felt a chill upon him. Thiuk-
Ing many things, lie followed his conductor.
The position appeared fortified by nature.
" Look once more," continued Zadoc.
",A phalanx of trees," responded Ralph.
" Come on! Now what ?"
The suggestive arm was again raised.
" A masked battery, camps, and dying camp-
fires !" -
The moonbeams fell in white threads upon
the silent guns. The Confederate soldiers turn-
ed unconsciously in their sleep, dreaming of
distant friends.  The brands smoked in the
rough and now-deserted kitchens. And thus
the woodland walk continued, and battery after
battery 'iet the eyes of Girdwood
Miles of broken wooded country, rolling table-
land, hills and vales, were traversed in this man-

ner, with the constant recurrence of batteries
and camps.
Ralph was greatly impressed with what he be-
held. He was perplexed, too, with the strange
conduct of his guide, whose taciturnity was un-
looked for. They finally left' the forest, to re-
turn by a different route ; first, to cross some
swampy ground, then through open fields and
occasional clusters of oaks.
"What have you seen ?" asked Murch."
"What may be called a zig-zag line of forts,
extending between two and three miles," answer.
ed Girdwood.
"Can the Federals take it ?"
Zadoc turned a curious look at the young
man.
"Not without the advantage of numbers, and
terrible loss of life !" replied Ralph, thought
fully.
" Jes' so I Now do you know the name of
that thar place ? It's called Bull Run, here.
about.".
"tA place I never head mentioned at Wash-
ington, or within the lines of the army of the
Potomac. Tell me, Mr. Much, have our ene-
mies no scouts ?"
" Oh yes! Touton B'uregard's going' to hang
one in the mornin !"%
" Can it he possible," said Girdwood, continue
ing the same train of reflection, " that the Yan-
kees know nothing of the masked batteries of
Manassas ?"
" You'd better say nothin' about what you've
seen down ihyar," added Mureb. "If B'uregard
knowed where you'd been, you'd be treated to
lost quarters till arter the advance of the inemy.
That's a secret he gards like the apple of his
"Why, then, have you led me through Bull
Run ?" queried Ralphi.
Look 'e hyar! Thar's things that musn't
he talked about, nor meddled with. This is one
on 'em. You've seen what no livin' man can
see, not in full fellership with the Confeds, and
pass that thar line of sentinels. You're one of
us, and 'tan't 'no matter 'bout motives. But I
can tell ye this : the Fed's'Il be cut up cruel, if
they go down thar without knowin' what they're
goin' into. I predict for 'em a bloody rout,
sieb as was never seen in these parts. I, Zadoe
Murch, say it !"
By this time they were near the farm house.
' Go in," he added, "and keep your own
counsel. Breathe not a word of this breach
old hoss. Look well to your own neck. Goo
bye, till we meet ag'in."
With this closing exhortation, delivered in a
friendly tone, Zadoc Mureh turned on his, heel,
and went his way.

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT; OR, THE UNION RANGES.

CHAPTER IX.
CHANGE o   F QUARTERS.
Girdwood went quietly to his room. It was
midnight ; and, soon after, he heard the rebel
chief retire to his chamber ; but, apparently,
not to sleep, for his restless footsteps we e audi-
ble for a long time.
The young man stretched himself on his bed ;
but thoughts of the prisoner below, and Hope
Ilurdlestone, banished repose, and when lie at
length slumbered, he dreamed of masked bat-
teries.
He met Hurdlestone, and Hope, and the gen-
eral at the breakfast-table, at a late hour in the
morning. He was treated with marked coldness'
by the latter. He watched Hope's countenance,
hoping to get good news from it respecting Luke
Scotto ; but her expression was downcast and
anxious. The meal passed in comparative si-
lence, and Ralph was heartily glad when it was
ended. The guard still environed the house,
and a soldier stood leaning on his musket at
Scotto's door.-
" You'd better leave the room, Hope," said
the colonel.
The young woman shook her head, and re-
mained.
Low orders were given, and preparations of
some nature were made in the clump of oaks
before the house. Girdwood tried to get an op-;
portunity to speak to Hope., Gradually getting
near her, he whispered: .
" Has anything been done, Miss Hurdlestone 2"
" No," she answered ; "no chance has been
given. The surveillance has been so close that-
found it impossible to move. Poor fellow I"
Ralph sighed, and, perceiving the eyes of
Beauregard upon him, colored.
A file of men appeared.
"Take hiim out!' said Hurdlestone, in a sup-
pressed voice, glancing at his daughter, and
leavin gthe roam.
"Imeant,' said Hope, addressing Beaui'e-
gard, " to have appealed to your magnanimity
again; but see, by your expression, that the
gates of mercy are closed. You are fortified,
in advance, against the attacks of pity.
"You are right, Miss Hurdlestone. Spare
yourself humiliation, and me a scene."
This was uttered in a manner that offended the
pride of Hope.
"If your bandit ancestor were brought in
from the hills of Mexico." she added, with a
slight toss of the'heid, and asarcastic glitter of'
the eyes, " I would not put up cry nor prayer
for him!"
The face of the traitor-general reddened with
anger.
"You shall regret this. Miss- Hurdlestone !
To cast at me the foul slanders of the Northern
press, is something you might have spared me,
e without detriment to your cause and wishes."

Nay, the 'story came from your a.. a'al
hills; and you will find it in the Diario di Mejico;
also, translated and copied into sundry Anglo-
Saxon sheets," responded Hope, glad to see that
her shaft had taken effect.
", There's no military discipline for you, Miss
Hurdlestone. The tongue of your sex is a
weapon that cannot be guarded against. And
yet," he added, frowning, "even women have
sometimes suffered for political sins."
" They have been whipped in Southern lati-
tudes," murmured Hope.
" Death and the devil 1" cried the colonel, at
that moment. "Where's the prisoner ?"
A corporal had just opened the door, and was
starring, with open mouth, into Scotto's room.
The colonel, seeing him, dashed through the
hall, with the foregoing exclamation. He look-
ed into the dim, little apartment ; lie searched
every corner with his troubled eyes ; but Luke
Scotto was not there.- He had escaped. The
window was fastened, nothing was disturbed, and
Hurdlestone sought in vain for a clue to his
mysterious disappearance.
" We have been cheated and cajoled !" he
roared. " There are traitors among us 1"
"Colonel Hurdlestone,"   said Beauregard,
culdl,"bring out your man "
" General," an swered Hurdlestone, his voice
husky with anger, "he has escaped I I know
not how ; but the fact is obvious. The guards
have been tampered with, or the devil helped
him."
"A fair devil, I'll warrant I" retorted Beau'
regard, looking at Hope.
"I understand you, sir 1" said Hope, with
quiet hauteur.
"Nor do you deny the implication," resumed
the general.
"1The will, sir. I do not deny ; but the oppor.
unity I moat certainly do," she returned, with
dignity.
" She shall take his place, and feed on bread
and water I" protested the colonel, in geat ex-
citement. " in with you, miss-in with you I
I'll teach you that I can punish traitors of my
own household !"
Hope stood, calm and unmoved. She glanced
at the Confederate leader, with an expression
that said :
"See the storm you have raised !"
Girdwood remained, astounded, in the back-
ground.
Hurdlestone seemed determined to enforce his
hasty menace.
" Do you hear me, girl ?  You are no. daugh.
ter of mine, if you aid and comfort traitorsI"
raged the colonel, striding, with angry gestures,
about the room.
" I will obey you. father, if you do not change
your mind, after a moment's reflection," an-
swered Hope, unruffled and dignified.
" Be silent, sir !" exclaimed the general, an-


32                 SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, TIIE UNION RANGERS.
tiiritativelv.  "The word of Miss Hope is suffi- threatening y F t1  'ird wood, who saw in its
cient for her .       -nocace.'_             rigid lin'-4 I I " ' .' nope and much to fear.
Miss Hurdlestonc bowed slightly to Beaure-                 CHAPER     .
Bard.CATRX
11r denial may satisfy you; but I know her             THaOUGH THE WALL.
diival leanings too well to be deceived," mut-  Girdwood's imprisonment proved rigorous.
ter J the colonel, in tones less fiery.  "er It was no pastime to be immured in a little dark
heart is not with us, sir, but with the Federal room, day after da, wih no prospect of relief,
1ause. 'it grieves me- that a child of mine and an, uncertain fate bere hi. Hs min
should cherish such sentiments."            was ill at eaee. There were reasons best known
'1Her sentiments do not ill become her, col- to himself why he should feel disturbed and
crl," Girdwood ventured to remark.     -   alarmed. lie certainly would have escaped had
on 'oiirowinion, sir, is of little value.  re- an opportunity offered. Of his food, which was
tortedo urdlestone, with sneering brevity.   placed before him in silence,t e didbnot com
Rhalplh saw Beauregard's eyes lowering on plain, and be thought lie dented, both in its
lin ominously..                            quantity and quality, the friendly hand of Hop
hn omilnurdlestone.
The file of soldiers that had come to take   One day a folded paper was thrust through
Scotto to execution fell back, grumbling, and a crevice into his room. He seized it with eager
dissatisfied. A universal feeling .of sullenness nesss. Upon it was written :
prevailed about the lead-quarters.           "You are believed to be a spy. I tremble at what ma
" Where are them d-d boys ?" asked the col- happen.                             Heps."
onel, suddenly, regardless alike of grammar, and  His blood thrilled with gladness. He was re-
an emphatic word. This question referred to Zn- numbered by one whom he never could forget.
doe's band. Drum.and Fife could not be seen ; Pleasing consciousness ! Here was a ray of
they Bad disappeared. A soldier reported that light shining upon his darkness. He kissed the,
he had observed one of the boys sleeping under paper, tore off a pigee of it,iand wrote with his
a tree, at daylight.                         pencil:
" The other cannot be far off, then. Besides,  "I care not what others think; but your good opinion
Mureh is sufficient guaranty for their honesty. is priceless. I dare not write what my heart feels."
But there's an infernal leak somewhere," added  This he slipped through the crevice, and
Hulrdlestone.                                awaited anxiously an answer. It came, and was
"Send up a corporal's guard!" said the gen- as follows:
eral, to the soldier who had spoken.      .    "Th ink of your own safety. I am.scarcely worth a
[lope and Girdwood looked at each other in- thought."
quiriugly. The more prophetic instincts of the  With nervous hand, Ralph wrote
former foresaw something unpleasant.uHer       " To me you are worth the price of a world! In all the
cheeks grew pale, and a lurkmg -fear disturbed solitary hours passed in this room. the remembrance of
her. An awkward silence followed. It was the you has been my solace. I am no lmrer myself ; I am
lull that precedes a fresh outburst of storm.  obsessed, end by you, kind and loryal [lac7e. Will you not
Tht pecae     at fh doutbu     r    . forgive this from one whose imminent peril renders hun
The guard came, at adouble-qmek-          incapable of deception "
" Corporal,' said the rebel leader, pointing  ''his well-freighted scrap went after its predeL
to Girdwood, "that man is a prisoner. Put
him  n tereI I heescpes I'l knw te ra-  essr.  irdwvood's blood, was in strange per-
him in there I If he escapes, I11 know the rea- turbation. His uncertain position, the conven-
"ob why !"          r               .e     . ient tree, and the dangling cord, were lost sight
"tGeneral Beauregard, I protest agamnt this of. He only thought: Shall I be rebuked or
treatmente" said Ralph, qite confounded. encouraged ?    Will this be met with indifference
"6 When I entered your lines, I brogtvouch- o       Zade5 oesy?
ors that should have satisfied every doubt.  or maiden mode his impatient ear to the wall.
" I know my duty, sir !" answered the Con-.  He f1aced h    impaient ar to timebbing.
federate general,sternly. Then,:to the corporal: He fancied lie ciuld  eam i above the trbbiger
"Place a trusty man at that door, and see that of his heart the rapid tracking of a h enil ove
the prisoner is seen, or spoken to, every hour." but seldom, save woman oftenkns of peri oand trial,
he corporal touched his capbt as                m   sa  lng werom the seconds !Hilow
"Look you, sir !" lie continued, sharply speaks it. How longer, the ens!hne
"A fellow gave us the slip last night Nobody tardy was every pulse! Love, the enchamiter,
canexpainthemyser; but if we have anoth- being there, changed all things- into on".A
e  su      ser                               white. dove, at lengthi flitted through the wall.
Then, to Girdwood: " Not a word, young man! It said:
I know, well what I do.     You will occupy    i"Think of Hope urdlestone w whatever ives you pleas-
the  uartrs  f Sctto th~Scou, dringmy  i am wailing for on opportunity to serve you. But
the quarters of Scotto, the Scout, during my this archrebel, lcauregard. as a earnest. What can I
pleasure."                              .     do? I4am watched mod!unmercifully. i s rumored that
The stern face of the rebel chief was turned the Grand Army of the-Potomac is advancing. 1 hope, 14

ii
n
V

SCOTTXO, TilE ScaJr ; O., '.I.;j'      i p
believe you are loyal. If General MeDow 'uld r eeve I are my hands; put on your locks. Better m
a word of warning ! You must escape. I hear there is than  Ijve worn detoiur ok.  etr'~
fatal evidence against you. I can write no more." th  I have worn them.
As Ralph received this friendly messenger, he slippeded olonut uihands, andthe I ant affswere
heart the light footsteps of Hope,receding  Jie clik.
read and re-read the assuring and- gentle re- " There ! Am I not enough at your will with
spous.  IThe love of life was strougpr 'within out cramping my limbs in those odious mana-
him thlti  t any p evious time. More sincerely res  esappeal to your magnanimity, Colonel
than aver lie deplored the unhappy difficulties IIurdlestone !"
in which the country was plunged. But there The laf ter signed to one of the men to take
was one feeling that ran parallel with his love away the fetters.
for Hope Hurdlestone. That feeling, for the, - " You have little claim to consideration. Mr.
inesent, shall be nameless.                 Girdwood; but in view of your youth and the
HA  RXIignominous fate before you, I comply with your
CHAPTER XI.                   wish."
IN IRoNs.                    Both tone and manner were gloomy.
While Ralph Girdwoo.l's heart was beating   "Beauretard will not--dare not-" began
with the new and delicious sensations inspired Ralph, impetuously, and as suddenlystopped.
by Hope, lie received a visit of a less exhilarating "He will--he dares !" returned If wrdlestone,
character. Colonel hurdlestone and two men with sombre brevity. "What has he not dared ?'
Entered. One ofthe latter brought irons and a Impressed by the gloomy dignity of IHurdle.
hammer, and the other a block.             stone, Girdwod paused, and wias silent some
GirEwood arose and looked at them inquiring- minutes. He clearly realized his perilous posi-
ly.                                         tion. It flashed over him, too, thl startling
" Put them on !" said Ilurdlestone.       force, that Hope's father stood before him and
-The block was placed on the floor, and the that consciousness staggered him like a blow.
man with the hammer motioned to Ralph to sit Was there not one secret the stern colonel had
down and put his feet upon it. The clink of not yet fathomede?
he fetters made him start.                   "Colonel Ilurdlestone," said Ralph, present.
" Am I to be ironed, sir ?" he .asked.    ly, with impressive voice,"youarcpno  eman
You are," replied Hurdlestone.          to trifle. If wrst shall come to worst, and I
I will not submit," protested Girdwood.,  should fall a victim to misapprehension or rash.
" Will you com el me to use force ?" re- ness, I should be glad to die thendeath of a sold.
pouded the colonel, grimly.                icr."ao
"This is undeserved and unlooked for," ad-  "I have no control over that, young man.
led the young man, preparing to resist.    While I regret your rashness, I can promise
" Unhooked for it may be, but undeserved it nothing."rP
$ not !" said Hurdlestone, with severity.    He turned to
"Is this the reward of my-my-"-'            "One questio-, sir..1s the Union Armyad-
" You do well to hesitate for'a word, young vanein ?eey
aan!   'eachery is the proper word to end   " It is so rumored; but I advise you to hope
our sentence with. Spare yours..lf, needless nothing from that circumstance."yo   ope
ilsehood."                                   Hurd lestone retired slowly, leaving Girdwood
"If I were not a prisoner, Colonel hurdle- in a state of mind not to be envied,
on.tat i                  eIs " retortI-

Qvi ,ua    s a term should resent," retorted
Girdwood, flushing to the forehead.
"A truce to this ! You are unmasked. Your
eharmeter is known. The device was ingenious
but, like other well-matured schemes, has failed.
General Beairegard is aware, sir, that the legiti-
mate bearer of those dispatches is a prisoner at
Fortress Monroe, while the spurious messenger
is in a fair way to meet the punishment meted
out to spies and secret emissaries of the enemy'
la this position. affirmation or denial would
have little weight: therefore I am silent, and
rest. for the pmresenmt, under your' imputation."
answered Girdwood, slowly, ,bt with some em-
ha'rassment.
"Nevertheless}" he adde, a moment after,
recovering his firmness, I protest against those
fetters. Being wholly in your power. it is a hime
miiintion. that you can afford-to forego. aere
reoIee

CHAPTER XII.
AN UNEXPECTED"PRESENCE.
Ralph Girdawood looked ruefully at tme iroms
on his wrists. Following the pleasurable ex-
citement produced by h          as singulrabinterview
with H ope, was this new misfortune. The visit
of Hurdlestone had stunned and c'founded
him. He appeared to have been quitnundred
pared for the communications that hi u en,
made. Here. 4pparentfr, was an t l (ifhs
ambition. So far as lie could ap prhend hi
situation, the d~car of escape was closed. ei
was, doubtless., to fall a victim to this cruel and'
bitterly-raging civil strife.
"H Have I not counted ti cost ?' he asked"
himself. many times.- With the gloomy reali-
ties of death before him, he was forced to an-
swer this query in the negative. That stern,


SC T , T'IE SCOUT; OX. T lE UNION RANGE RS.

a Ild conqueror of mcii, when seen at arms
length, is au different thing than when beheld
at a distance.   en brave men reluct and
shrink from the approaches of the pitiless ty-
rant. Girdwood wished fervently for life and
its enjoyments.
He sat dawn, and his head sank into his hsnd-
ouffed lands. The love of Hope Hurdlestone
bad given a new charm to existence. He heard,
without,- the hum of vamps, the challenges of
sentris, the occasional tap of the drum, the
blare of trumpets, and now and then the rever-
bes-atioi of the dist nt signal-gun. He sense.l
more fily than ever that he was living in the
midst of var. But, strange inconsistency! he
did not regret his visit to Manassas; for it was
his introduction t Hope. Suggestive name?
It kept ringing- in his ears. It sounded again
ashd agalt. It made music in the mystic cham-
bers of his brain. Could he wholly despair
wh le Hope was in his hart, touching, with in-
visible fingers, itsresponsive stilgs
Hours rolled over the bowed head of Gird-
wood.'
When the night fell, a candle and writing-ma-
terials were brought and placed beside him, in
ominous silence.  In defiance of his strong
nerves, this circumstance shocked him not a
little; for it was full of meaning. It said : "If
you have any parting words to leave, you are
permitted to write them."
Atfirst, ie was tempt d to comply with this
invitation; but reflection changed his mind.
"If this is to be," lie mused, "I will die
without sign. or witness. Besides, it may be a
snare to entrap me. If I have secrets, I will
keep them."
Be he pushed the pen and paper from him,
and the night flowed slowly on. The candle on
the little pine table diinly burned, flashing and
falling with melancholy light.
A sudden vibration startled him. It came
from the floor under his feet. Presently a board
began to lift, rising gradually and noiselessly.
Ralph watched the phenomenonwith lively in-
terest. It portended,'something. What was it?
A human hand became visible, the board was
pushed entirely aside, and a head arose to view.
Girdwood sat fixed'and mute, staring in won-
der at this sub-munilane appearance. The face
turned silently toward him. As quickly as he
-oould, with his manacled hands, he seized the
light,'and held it downward ; and it threw its
pale rays on the features of Scotto, the Scout
The surprise of Ralph was complete. Of all
the faces he might have expected to see, Luke
Scotto's was not among them. Doubt, hope,
aid strong curiosity possessed him. He waited
for the key to this mystery, nor was he- kept
long in suspense.
The scout laid his finger on his lips, then, ele-
vating his arm, beckoned him to 'ollow. At
that moment, a scrap of paper fluttered to the

floor. Gird" ood eagerly' picked it up. Upon
it was wriitten, in iope's harndwi'iting
The cpuatrsig n, to-n'g/,t, is Richmond !"
He ianled it to Scotto, who nodded with a
satisfied air, and signified, by another and more
imperative motion, that he should immediately
lower himself through the opening. It was not
a time for questioning or explanation, and he
instantly obeyed the admonition. He found
himself stan~dinig on the firm earthen-floor of a.
4cllar. He would have taken the candle, but
the scout shook his ieid, and he left it burning.
Scotto then replaced the board, and] they were
in total darkness. Taking him by the arm, his
guide led him several paces, and presently he
saw the moonlight creeping through an opening
in the wall.
" Be quiet !" whispered Scotto; and, mount-
ing a box, looked out cautiously. ' When you
hear the sentinel say ' About.' be within reach of
me."
With these low-breathed instrucions, the
scout's body darkened the hole, and Ralph was
conscious, an inst-nt after, that he was lying in
the grass outside. He stepped upon the box,
his heart beating as he had never before known
it to beat. Just then, a sentinel said - About !"
A strong hand grasped his shoulder, and he
w.s dragged through the narrow outlet, and
pressed hard and prone to the earth. His emo-
tions were indescribable. le tried to bring
every muscle into subjection, and to hush his,
respiration.' Another life was staked, and for
him. The sentinel passed the corner of the
house, and for a moment was hidden from view.
The garden was a few yards distant, and in it
was a trellis, covered with vines. A gentle pull
admonished Ralph that the critical moment had
arrived. Scotto half arose, glided across the in-
tervening space, and sank down -behind the
trellis ; and the young main imitated his move-
ments with wonderful fidelity.
'An approving pressure signified the scout's
satisfaction.' They e lay there, entirely screened
by the foliage, till the sentinel passed and re-
turned again.
About ten yards from this .screen was some
shrubbery, and trees beyond. The distance be-
tween was rather open, but darkened by the
shadows of surrounding objects.
"Now !" whispered Scotto , and they ran this
dangerous gauntlet in safety, then crept away
among the oaks. All seemed to go well till
they came upon a figure lying upon the ground,
asleep, apparently.
Girdwood was'seized with apprehension ; but
Scotto advanced without fear, and the figure
cautiously arose. It was Dagon, to the un-
speakable relief of Ralph.
" Take off the ruffles !" said Scotto.  The
black applied a key, and relieved the young
t man of the handcuffs.-
" here's the clothes," sail Dagon, drawing a

I,

SCOTTO, TIlE SCOU T ; O i, TIHE UNION R A NGERS.
suit of gray garments from a hollow tree. " Put I used to wear. we'll manage it. A hat. c:; l, i ro,-
'cm on, Masr Girdwood, and the Loi be a friend gn, or rag of any kind'! Ido," eontinr:.trey
to ye till ye git out o' dis yer trouble."  scout, hurriedly.
Ralph threw off his clothes, which Dagon de-  "i1 sees de joke, mass'r! Wirait about ten
posited in the tree, and put on the army-gray. winks of yer eye."  Dagon glided awae like a
"It's the color of the Confeds," added the black phantom, and was back again bef'oreoone
friendly black, as he dexterously assisted Ralph. could count fifty, bringing a ragged lint.
*1Here, mas'r, is the fatigue-cap. What's dis  "Dis yer is what ye wait. Go yender to
ver                                        them yei' trees, and 1Iiti bring Julc."
The sooty fingers of Dagon lifted the redun-  "Yes, that ndwhiit I mean. I'll hike the dog
-ant locks of Ralph.                       along ; and if we're questioned, we'll tell 'em
Some o' dis must come off. No soger feller we're huntin' runaway niggers. Tiat' I be bet-
wears such ha'r. It's a heap too long, mas'r. ter nor a letter o'-recommendation to the p'i-
Dis yer contraban' 'siderod about it aforehand. soned s-ceshers. With the couritersign and iiig-
Hole steady, mas'r; while I clip."         gei'-huritin', I reckon we'll Stan' a snart chance.
Girdwood felt cold steel tracking around his Hurry, Dagon-hurily s"
neck, anddhis long, brown hair fell rapidly to  The black disappeared again, and Scotto and
the ground.                                 Girdwood made their way cautiously to t he spot
I lere's yer pistles. Missy Hoge said you'd indicated, where they waited anxiously for the
want 'era. You've got 'em, brt-ss de Lor' ! coming of their faithful ally, who cani(o. pres-
Don't he tooken-don't be tooken! Better be ently, leading a beautiful hu+.d, whiii looked
shot than drawed up a tree. De poor nigs '11 at them, at first with suspicion, then with cnr-
do well nuff to draw up a tree'; but it don't osity, and finally, encouraged by Dagon, with
'gree with white folks. De Contrabans is used complacency.
to it, Mas'r Girdwood, and a mighty heap of  "You're to go 'long, Jule,' with do whine
'em '11 go up afore another corn-plantiun'."  folks," he said, patting the sleek animal u pon
"Come !" said Luke Scotto. "We've got the head, " and do jist what they tell ye. Be.
l"t a shiort start. There'll be a hubbub afore have yerself, ole gal - behave yerself!  I'll
all hour, and the Black Hoss boys '11 be ramping' meet ye t'other side o' Jordan one o' dese yer
round like imad."                          das, bress de Lor' !"
" You are running a fearful risk, my friendd"  agon placed the leash in Scoto's hand, who
observed Ralph, impressed by the cool courage held the crushed hat to her long, sensitive
of the man.-    .      0                   nose. She smelled it, snuffed the air, and emit-
"Not the fust time-not the fust time ! I've ted low, menacing sounds.
been on the border, lad, aiid in Mexico. I   "All right !" said Dagon. " Good-bye, ole1
on't think I's born to be stretched. I b'lieve gal-good-bye !"
in God and the Union, and reverses don't put  Dagon took a long, parting -look at the dog,
me down. Our course is thereaway-into the sighed mournfully, and the next moment was
timber, and across swamps, so's to steer clear. out of sight.
if possible, of the sentinels. A weary tramp is
afore us, hut it's better nor hangin"; theerfore,       CHAPTER XIII.
-orrard 1"'AWAY FROM MANASSAS.
Just one little word, Mas'r Scout.  Mas'r  Skillfully, and with steady pace, Scotto pick.
Ilurdstone has got a bloodhoun' that's awful on ed his way across the country.  Once, they
niggers. and with a little 'couragement would came suddenly upon a sentinel, but upon giv-
put hr teeth in white folks. I Hearn Mas'r say ing the countersign. and afirming that they
he'll put her on de track ob de next abolition were hunting a runaway, they were allowed to
spy as cuts and runs. Now, lat yer slut will pass. The ragged hat and the hound gave such
smell tracks like de debble ! I knows her like an air of probability to this statement, that it
preachin, cause I brung her up from a pup. could scarcely be doubted.
Jist like a streak--she is ! You can't stinguish They traversed swamps, woodland, and neg-
uotliin bit a little white, hue when she bolts. leeted fields  Girdwood's emotions were inde-
Now look yer!"  Dagon's voice and face ex- scribable. He felt like one passing from the
pressed the deepest earnestacss. "Dat yer portals of death. He found it difficult to real..
slut's nane is Jule-ealled arter my ole woman. iz that lie had escaped  His gratitude to the
If Masr Ilurd'stone should put her to scentin' m mtn who had conferred upon him liberty-at
ye-"                                 .     such a personal risk, was deep and earnest.
Hold up, boy--hold up !" interrupted Scot- The motive that had ,actuated the scout was
to.  I'll tell ye what to do. Has any of the yet a perplexing mystery.  He wondered by
darkeys run away, lately ,"                w1lat means he had gained knowledge of him
Bress. d Lor'! dey goes every day ! One and his character
went ist night," answered Dagon.              While he pondered -these things, the dog
el, if you can get me someat that he Jule trotted quietly by the scout, now looking '


8d               SCOTTO, TUE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.
up wistfully, now depressing her sharp muzzle l guard. I don't ask to understan', cyther. I don't
to the ground, and now scenting the chance want to understan', nyther.  'in only part of a
odors of the air.                           machine. I do my duty 'cordin' as I know it.
" I am greatly surprised at what has happen- I go here and I go there like a jaek-o'-lantern.
ed," Girdwood remarked. " Your appearance, Sometimes I lead the star-spangled critters to
to-night, was certainly a most unexpected scour the kentry, or to a squirmish with the
*vent."                                    'eeshers. Sometimes we water our bosses at the
" No doubt !" said Scotto. " I couldn't nat'- Potomac, and ag'in miles away into rebel waters.
rally been looked for. But that's my disposi- Sometimes I'm in the saddle, sometimes afoot.
tion. I'm allers goin' where I ain't ivited." Sometimes I'm plenty, then ag'in I'm seuree.
" Your own escape produced a great deal of Sometimes I'm found absent, and then 'twould
oenjeeture. Miss Hurdlestone was anxious to puzzle the Old Nick to track me. I'm one as
eid you; but your escape seemed to surprise is willin' to all kinds o' work. I don't take an
her as much as others," added Ralph.,       affront 'cause I ain't appointed colonel or a
Scotto smiled with satisfaction.          brigadier. I love the flag, and, if need be, I'll
"1I had help, Mr. Girdwood," he answered, knock under for't. If I can't do one thing I'll
"and very good help it was. The Basketeers do another. In some capacity or other, I'll eat
proved theirselves worthy o' their bringin' up." my bigness into this here rotten rebellion. I'll
" Who are the Basketeers ?"               hack, hew, and slew !"
" I'll show ye pretty quick," replied the scout.  Luke Scotto spoke in a calm and even voice,
Jule pulled on the leash, thrust out her nose, as if he had reflected thoroughly upon the mat-
and raised a cry.                          ter, and these were the innmost feelings of his
" Hold up, pup, hold up !". admonished Scot- heal-t, which no possible pressure could change.
to. " What's into ye ? There's nowhat herea-  "Theerfore," lie added, anon, "I am as I am,
bouts to harm ye."                         and don't keer to be no different. I move as,I'm
They had entered a swamp of scrub-cedar, of moved, and ask no questions. Your business
growth so close that it was nearly impervious. is your own, and not mine. I've got no cur os-
They were often obliged to stoop in pushing on- ity."
ward.                                        ."Let me ask you; one thing, Luke Scotto,"
"Peleg ! Pickerin'!" cried Scotto. " Hark ! said Girdwood, perceiving that the scout wished
Where on airth be they ?" He paused, and list- to make no explanation of his-recent conduct.
sued.                                  .    "Are you acquainted with the defences at Man-
Girdwood heard boyish voices in altercation. assas?",
"That's them! They're pitehin' in ag'in.   "Some'at; but I should knowed more, if
They'd fight if they's going' to a funeral."  things had worked to my mind. I found it im-
Walking a short distance farther, they came possible to git down to what they calltthe Run.
upon two boys, who were squaring off upon There's awful secrets thereatouts, I reckin."
each other. Girdwood recognied them as Za-   " You are right; and General McDowell can-
doe Murches' band-drum and fife.            not be warned too soon. I have important in-
"Stop it, rpy banties !" said Scotto. "Keep formation for him."
your surplus knocks for the inemy."  Then to  "You're a 'eesher !" said Scotto, smiling.
Girdwood, explanatorily. " These be %he Bask-  " No matter what I am. There are two miles
meters."     ,-                             or more of ,masked batteries at Manassas."
"Basketeers ?" repeated Girdwood.           "Are you in airnest ?" asked the scout, with
"'Cause found in a basket, thirteen year ago a start.
and upward."                                  " Most seriously," responded Girdwood. "I
" Twins ?"                                hope the Army of the Potomac has not moved."
" Twins, every inch on 'em," answered Scotto, "It is movi' now, .I allow," answered the
with a quiet smile and a touch of pride. "Same other, uneasily.
height, you see, and not a grain alike in featur'.  "Let us hurry."
One took arter his father, and the other arter  "No, let us rest here till they reach Fairfax
his mother, I reckon. Theerfore they're twins." or Centreville, when it'll be easy to jine 'em."
"Excellent reasoning," said Ralph.   -      "It's a fatala mistake !" exclaimed Girdwood,
" Je' soI" responded Scotto, dryly.     much agitated.
"Isaw them in strange company," observed    "Mistake or not, I know they're coming .
Ealph.                                      They've been pushed on and worried on, and a
"The same may be said of yourself, I consid- battle must be fornt. I long to be in it! You'll -
er!" retorted the .seeut. "Yo  must't expect see-me with the star-spangled critters,-lookin'
to understan' all you see in this world, young sharp for. the Black Hoss Calvary. We shall,
man. I doi't, and never did. I didn't under- cut, hack, gash, hash; hew, and slew! There!. -
stan' why you run the loyal pickets. I didn't headed, alter a momentary p)1ise. " Thats,
understan' why you went down to Manassas,amli'what I had to say. It' uiigh morn in; let's down
*traighit to the head-quarters of Touton Beanr.- aid sleep, an 1 lie ready for the stireinn workt of

SCOTTO, TIHE SCOUT; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

to-morrow -if work there should be.  Boys,
stop bickerin', and take good keer of -this dog.
Feed her., and pet her, and she'll take to ye
kindly."
The darkness that precedes the -dawn now lent
a deeper gloom to the swamp. The hum of the
Confederate camp had long since died away in
the distance.
Peleg and Pickering spread a couch of cedar
boughs, and Scotto and Girdwood stretched
their weary limbs upon it.
CHAPTER XiV.
IN THE sWAMP.
When Girdwood awoke, the sun had reached
the meridian. ie was surprised that his slum-
bers had been so profound and protracted, but
weariness and relief from anxietyhad contribut-
ed to 'his repose. The hound Jule was watch-
ing beside him; but Luke Scotto and the fight-
ing brothers were not to be seen. He wonder-
od at this desertion, and at first was inclined to
regard it as a breach of friendship; but re-
flection brought different feelings. He believed
that Scotto would return, and resolved to wait
a reasonable time for his appearance. He was
very thirsty, and searched for water.: Finding-
some dark, brackish pools in the swamp, he
drank from them, and the warm, thick fluid was
more grateful to his parched tongue than the
clearest water lie had ever tasted.
. Leaving the cedar jungle, he endeavored to
obtain a viewof the surrounding country, but
on account of its inequality, could see but lit-
tle. In a distant field, however, he discovered
what seemed to be a company of Confederate
skirnishers or scouts, and retreated to the
swamp, the cover of which lie- had scarcely
gained, when he had reason to congratulate
himself on his prudence, for a small body of
horse, a moment later, crossed the open space
space beyond.
Keeping the hound crouched beside him, he
observed the progress of the riders, who were
evidently a squad of the Black Cavalry, either
searching, for hiniself or reconnoitering. Thee
passed slowly by his li ing-place., The ground
being soft, the horses sank to -their fetloelks,
precluding the idea of speed. When directly
opposite, and within a dozen yards. of him, he
recognized, with a heart-throb of apprehension,
the stabuart proportions of Ceolneliurdle-
stone.
ie pressedathe delicate head of the dog to
the earth to prevent her from seeing her master
aid bounding after him, as she might be likely
to do.
"These escapes'have been very singular," he,
heard llunrdlestone remark.
.Secret enemies are the worst enemies." a
horseman, wear ng the bige of a lieutenant,
replied.'

"1 know of it secret enemies at the genera'a
head-quarters," returned the colonel.
"They may be in one's own household,""sd
the other, moodily.-                     f
4 Lieutenant Storrow," answered llurdlestone;
haughtily, "the Confeder icy has no active
enemy in household of mine. I throw back
your insinuation with scorn, and its repetition
will call forth my-resentment."
" I meant no offence," responded Storrow, with
the same dissatisfied manner. "I but know th
two spies have mysteriously slipped through onr
fingers, and are now laughing at the hangman,
and carrying 1 know not what important'infor-
matiop to tIe Union Army. Prisoners can't get
from under our very noses without help, especi-
ally when they are in irons and doubly guard-
ed."
" I like not your tone !" retorted IHurdlestone,
with displeasure. " I was made responsible for
their safe keeping, and these two escapes touch
mue more nearly than you or any other officer.
To the general-in-chief I am accountable, and to
no other."
"You know best, sir; but if I had my way,
there should be no more escapes between seir-
tence and the halter. I'd hang 'em right up,
sir-right up! - I had my suspicions of that oily
fellow, Girdwood, from the beginning. The bul-
let-hole through his cap didn't deceive me. I
wouldn't give that for his dispatches !" Storraw
snapped his thumb and finger contemptuously.
" But he's had a fine time among us," he Went
on, now addressing his conversation apparently
to a man on his left. "He has fared well and
fed well, And it is rumored that e has found
time to toy with the boy Cupid. If certain
parties do not belie him, lie has not tried his
arts of pleasing in vain."
" Forward !" cried the colonel, spurring his
horse anddashing on.
The horsemen ascended the ridge, and soon
disappeared on the other side. Girdwood was
infinitely relieved by their speedy Iassage from
sight. Going back to the spot where he' hraf
slept, lie awaited the return of the scout, soie-
times gazing up at the sky through the broad,
dark-green branches of the cedar interposed be-
tween himi and the hot rays of the sun likb a
sheltering hand, sometimes caressing the hound,
and always thinking of Hope Hurdlestone.
Preseintly he heard quick,"light steps in the
swamp, and' Scotto, long looked for, dame at
last.
"What news?" asked Girdwood, impatiently.
Just then heavy firing was heard iii. the diree-
tion of Manassas.
Hark!" said Scotto. "General Tyler has
waked up some rebel batteries, I reekin, down
to the Rui.",  -   .
"The attaek,.then, is premature V' exclaimed
Ralph.
" Th-y're itot gii' to attack in force to-day.


as          SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

They're makin' a strong reconnoisanee of the
enemy's position," replied the scout.
" Strong indeed, if one may judge by those
heavy, rapid discharges of cannon. I am fear-
ful that their patriotic ardor has outrun their
prudence, if 1 can judge correctly by-the sound
of the firing, nothing less than crushing brigades
should be thrown upon them at that point.
Single regiments will not do. See!1 Wreaths
of smoke are curling.up to the sky."
"'There'll be more smoke to-morrer. Our
army has passed Fairfax, and ndw rests at Cen-
treville, stretching to the right and left like bats'
r wings. To-morrer '11 be the 21st, an dSundav';
and a great battle will be fou't. God he only
knows what the result '1l be I"
" Disastrous,- I'm afraid. They don't know
what they're going to fight. There's a great
difference between meeting an enemy in open
AeId, and intrenched on ground of his own
choosing. Even undisciplined volunteers can
fight behind breastworks. Then they have the
ad vantage of knowing the country. There is
mot a cow-paths they are unacquainted with."'
" True !" responded Scotto. " But if our
boys were well commanded, I shouldn't have no
fear for the end on't."
" Av f There's the rub. Many of the Fed-
e+al oiffaers have never smelled gunpowder, ex-
oeot in woodcock and snipe-shooting, There's
a-vast difference between mustard-seed shot and
cannon balls. Let us hurry to -Centreville," an-
swered Girdwoods with earnestness._
" Be patient," said Scotto, coolly. " The
Black Calvary are out in every direction, and
wouldn'tt be pleasant to fall into their clutches.'
Ik the morning , airly, there'll be work in airnest.
It there's no accident, you'll hear the thunder of
cannon with the rising' of the sun, when, if you've
a-mind for sarvice, you can fall in with the Six-
-ninth, or the Fire Zarves, or whatsoever
iment you like. The Sixty-ninth, I've hear,
w il have the post of honor, and lead up to the,
batteries. Their time's out, and they can go
kme, every man of 'em ; but they ain't the
bey 'to show the white feather in sight of an
iaemy. I wish I could say as, much of the
Peans lvania Fourth, which, in the mornin', '1l
take the back track."
" Turn their backs on their brothers-in-arms?
Impossible I" exclaimed Girdwood.
" When the Sixty-ninth and other gallant
lads march to danger and, death, the Pennsyl-
vania Fourth will left foot, right foot, torards
safety and home."
Luke Scotto contracted his brows, and me-
ehanically tightened the belt around his loins.
"It pains me to hear it.' Every regiment will
be needed."
"Ay ! They might stay with the reserve
force, rather than turn back, if they don't keer
to snuff gunpowder. Howsomever, let 'em go.

They'll git a name oy it that nobody 'II covet.
What's into 'em, I wonder?"
"Not cowardice, I hope? Not want of patri-
otism, I trust ? Where ai-e. those singular
lads ?"'
" Couldn't keep 'em, ticeri'ore let 'em go.
They was off likesky-rockets soon as never they
heerd the big guns ; for there's been firin' at
odd jobs for a long spell. What day of the
month did I say it was ?"
" The 20th."
" Then the 21st of July will- be a day in our
history. Prehaps a dark, prehaps a bright one.
On the 21st, the star-spangled critters, if they
have a chance, will try tCoir steel on them as
have plunged this it I;i  poverty, distress,
and war. As for myse f. I 1eer nowhat for the
terrors of battle. I've fou't under Scott,\ in
Mexico. I've seen the old flag carried triumph-.
antly hundreds o' miles into the inemy's coun-
try. I've seen it wave over cities, and forts, and
bloody fields."
Scotto looked up, raised his right arm, ana
his face glowed with enthusiasm.
" They was the pride o' nations, the Stars- and
Stripes was ; they was the hope o' the misera-
ble and downtrodden everywhere . There's a
heavy account to reehin. We'll foot up the
whole on't presently. I said I didn't mind the
battle for my own sake. But there's young lads
in the army that ain't seasoned to the malan-
choly sights o' war. Their hearts '11 fly up into
their throats, at fust, but th'ey'li get used to it'
arter a little, go that they'll hack, hew, and slew
with the veterans. Many on'em won't go back,
in course not. Their bodies '11 enrich this sile,
but their names won't never die.'
Scotto, the scout, continued to gaze ak the
sky, and his brown face was calm and earnest.
" Even soI" responded Girdwood, impressive-
ly. And each felt that the morrow was big with
events.
-CHAPTER XV.
AT MANASSAS.
With the first burst of artillery on the event-
ful morning of the 21st, Ralph Girdwood
sprang to his feet. The scout was already on
the alert.
"It's General Tyler's division," he said.
"They've hail a long march, and are directly
atween us and the inemy."S
"The guns speak loudly. They are much
nearer than I supposed. Now is our time," re-
sponded Ralph, eager for the affray.
" Stay  come'at!s  There's no hurry  yet.
You'll have enough on't afore night."
Girdwood looked at Scotto inquiringly, and
chafed at his inexplicable delay.
" Trust an old fighter, and don't fret," he
said, in reply to the young man's impatient,
glance.
The hound Jule arose from the foliage where

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.                          SW
she had been sleeping, snuffed tihe air-, rnd, a I Them as fight with halters round their necks,
moment after, the tramp of horses was heard. should fight shy."
"They're , coming! " said the scout; taking  "The same advice, may apply to yourself,*
some hard biscuits from his pocket and offering said Girdwood.
them to Ralph. "Eat," he added. "An empty   :"It mought, and then ag'in it moughtn't,"
stomach is a bad thing. He that's faint, athirst, returned the scout, musingly.
and hungry, is poorly prepared for s ork."  They passed rapidly across the country, and
While -Girdwood was masticating this dry reached, presently,-some rolling fields, With a-
breakfast, the tramping drew ncarer, and Scotto ridge beyond.
led the way from the swamp.                  Scotto pointed to the ridge, and remarked:,
"It's my mounted scouts," he said, quietly.  "The Warrenton road is onto it. It crosses
49The boys have told. 'em where to find me. Bull Run by a stone bridge. There's two}fords
Here they be."                              above the bridge (which they say is guarded-ty
The Independent Rangers crossed the soft artillery), one defended, and the other not.
ground. and now. drew up around their leader, General Tyler is goad to the upper ford, I ieck-
the fighting brothers foremost .among them, in, to turn the lony's left. See the columns
leading w.o horses.-A                      of smoke risin' yender ! I like the looks on't I
"Glad .to see ye !" said Scotto, shat:ing The wind's bringin' it down to us. I'm fond-'
hands with the nearest, and regarding ai w thb the smell on't '
satisfaction. " How d'ye do, Lieutenant Se.tr- By this time they were in1 sight of the long
lett? How be ye, Co'p'ril Keith ? 'I he bu.J- stretch of woods through which Girdwoodhad
dogs are barkin' down there."              enjoyed the unusual favor of a nocturnal walk
"We thought we'd lostyou, eaptain," replied with Zadoc Murch.i- White clouds of smoke
the lieutenant.                             were rolling over it. The roar of musketry
" Well, I did1 git pretty nigh the edge on't, mingled with the thunder of cannon. The air
but, thank fortin, didn't tumble over."     was hot and sulphurous.
"Them twins has been elinchin' ag'in," oe-  "To the upper ford '' cried Scotto ; and
served Corporal Keith, with a scandalized .oo0. touching his horse with his lIeel, dashed ahead.
"They're callers elinchin'. Let 'em clinch ,  The Rangers swept onward, without muchere.
We'll give 'em a chance to clinch some'at of as.- gard to order, their enthusiasm increasing as
other natur', soon. Fall in, men, and foller me   they approached the scene of action. 'Ihey
Bring them losses here, boys. Where's the ri- passed the Stone Bridge at a hard gallop, and
fles-eh ?"                                  the enemy, thinking they designed foreing .
" Brought 'em  along. Here. they be," an- passage,'let fly a charge of grape, whieh passed
swered Corporal-Keith.                      harmlessly the rearinost of the Rangers.
"Mount, Mr. Girdwood," said Scotto. "We   With every step the din grew louder. They
are 'ell pervided for. That hoss has got some met ambulances bearing away the wounded, but
bottom, I reekin. Peleg, pass that rifle to him. no cowards .in flight. Across, the fields, from
Pickerin', bring mine. How's the ammunition? various directions, columns, of infantry were
Plenty on't-eh ? All right ! We shall want seen hurrying to the fight. Every pasesibg
a heap of the stuff. You must use your weep- breeze bore the sound of shouting -and cheer-
ens to-day, lads. Cut, hack, and slew !"   ing, drowned occasionally by the boom of the
Scotto spoke very rapidly as he mounted, ad- heavy guns.
ousted his tall person in the saddle, and eagerly  Scotto drew his sword. His swarthy face
raised the rifle placed in his hands by one of was flushed all over, au-l his usually mild eyes
the boys. '     lbeamed with the fires f battle. In a nomtnt,
Girdwood observed his haste with pleasure, they swept into the stormy circle of the con-
sad could not conceal his joy at being mounted flict, shadowed by a hot, black canopy of smoke
and armed.                                   Although'it was early in the day the-gaoun
The Rangers were inmotion. A cannonading was already strewn with the dea' Some lay
In the direction of Manassas, which had subsid. in the attitude in which they had fallen ;- Mt
ed for a brief space, was'now heard, crash on had crawled a short distance, and. died painful-
crash, in rapid succession. The horses pricked ly ; while other's, placed by their comrades
their' ears, and responding willingly to the against trusnks of trees, had said their: prayp ,
wishes of their riders, went forward at a can- thought of home, and, passed quietly. away.
ter.  -                                    The wounded looked at.them as they went by,
The hound, which had manifested a decided but made- no ,omplaint. Some of them feebly -
preference for Girdwood, ran beside ,bim. , . cheered. One poor fellow, fatally shot, raised a
" Be keerful," admonished Scotto, addressing heavy and stiffening armn, m1n( cried :
his conversation to Ralph, " not to fall into the  " Stand by the flag, boys !"
hands of Touton Beauregard. Findin' you in   When Girdwood'went back that way, tha
sich company, it migl t be diffikils for ye to brave heart was cold.
prove your Innocence of loyalty to the old flag. The Minis and musket balls flew like hall.


40               SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.
stones, while whirling globes of -iron and lead I the scout, who ha l.dismounted and loosened the
from rifled cannon sheared the branches from-jgirths of his saddle. Then to Ralph, laying
tgees, .or plowed their way through ranks of hold of his bridle-rein : " I make ye my prison-
infantry.,er in the name of the Prisident of the United
The Rangers shot into the tempest of death States. Oh, ye iurtherin' sacesher ! Ye pick-
just as an overpowering charge was being made et-runnin' blaek-ruard ! Ye spin' ribel! Give
upon a loyal battery, and our men were being me the counters.gn immaj'ate."
forced slowly backward by the mere prepon-   "Hold up there, Paddy Malone !" interposed
derance of physical weight. Scotto waved his Scotto. "Ie's been fighting' aside of me these
sword and shouted : " Forward !" In an instant three hours."
Girdwood was in the thickest of-the strife,  . "All tlat may be, cap'n, jewel, but I want the
which, like the sea, flowed, and ebbed, and flue- countersign that's honestly due me. I remim-
tuhted to and fro, now breaking; on  a shore of her as well what it was, as though it was give me
dead horses and men, now rolling backward into the last night that iver was. I want Feerfax,
the forest over a beach of batteries, now desert- bedad !"
ed and silent, LOW turned and vomiting fire on  "Fairfax it is," said Girdwood, smiling.
the retreating foe.                          " All right. Now I'll accept the cap'n's ree-
The green grass and newly-sprung foliage was immend. But I never like to be ch'ated of
slippery with blood.                       what belongs till me. The tip of the day to
Girdwood kept near the scout in every charge ye, mister. If ye want to know more of the
that was made. Wherever his tall and swaying Sixty-ninth, I'm the boy to ax ye questions.
figure.was seen, there was hot wprk and busy Them yender is the Ilighlianders, the Seventy-
blades around him. Wherever he saw the flag ninth, under Cameron. heaven rest his sowl i
wavering and sinking, there he led his Rangers, They say lie fell fightin' like a lion at the head
and- broke on the traitors like an angry wave, of his men." -
hurling them back and decimating their ranks. - " Gallant Cameron," sighed Girdwood.
Ralph thought of the two boys, 'and felt coin-  " It's the fate o' war," said Scotto, thought-
passion for their youth ; but, by-and-by, when fully. "He as goes to battle takes his life as
the battle lulled, and both the assailed and as- it were, in his hand. A battle-field is a good
sailants drew back to rest; lie was surprised to 'lace to die on, if one falls with his face to the
see: them unharmed, riding about with entire foe, and his back to the field  And there's one
self-composure, loading and firing like veterans, other thing : God knows-the true man from the,
Aq they stood on the margin of the -wood, and traitor.'
the, smoke gradually lifted, Girdwood- looked  ' I solemnly think so. Tell me, captain, your
around at tie torn and -blackened columns that opinion of the day ? Shall we win or lose 9"
had-been engaged. His eyes-fell-on a regiment asked Girdwood.
that in a particular manner drew his attention.  A troubled look passed over Bcotto's face.
The men were stripped to shirt and pants, their - "It depends," he. answered, carefully weigh-
arms bared to the-elbow, everypowder-smutch- ing his words, "on the length of time we are
ed visage expressing grim determination :and obliged tor fight. If the men are kept in the
*ourage,                    .-field a fen - hours longer, without re-enforce-
" What regiment is that ?" asked Girdwood ments, hunger and thirst will conquer 'em, and
of a man who was busily employed in wrapping not the rebels ' An empty stomach is worse nor
a handkerchief about his left arm.  -      an empty gun.. The lost' three days have been
"What rigiment is it ? . That was the ques- deadly hot. The sogei's have sweltered, blister-
tion ye axed. Bless me, if I thought there was ed, and fainted in the sun. This deceitful eli-
a man in Ameriky but'd know the Sixty-ninth4" mate has sapped 'eni of sti-ength, and wilted 'em
answered the soldier addressed.            like mown grass: This sultry air goes:into the
"'The Sixty-ninth I" ..repeated Girdwood. lungs like fire. Look yeider at the Fire-Zarves,
They are brave boys. Honor to the green They-lay panting' on'the ground like dogs, a id'
fagi What officer-leads them so gallantly ?" they're men as are used to the smoke. and ;heat
" It's the leader: ye wants td know ? - He's a of burnin' buildings, See ! they plu'kup the
true ;son, of Old Ireland - Major Meagher -  grass 'and eat it-to get a little moisture for their
Cap'n Meagher we call him, for the r'ason it tongues. :If it was autumn,'Mr. -irdwood-if
sounds more intimate-like."                it was autumn I"
The Irish soldier looked hard atRalph. His  The scout struck the perspiration in great
smutehed face lighted up with a gleam-of-recogs drops .froni his brow, while his horse snapped
ninion.            .      :                voraciously-at the green leaves.,
"Misther Scotto-eaptnadear,-Tmane-will ye  The roar of cannon was hearil in other parts
jist clap your two eyes onthis chapt? Bad cess of the field. 'Therbatteres they had assisted to
to me if 'tisat the same entirely thatrun the defend began to play again. TheFire Zouaves
picket with niver a countei'sign at Al, at alll" sprang to their feet, cheered tie flaunting Stars
eried Barney Malone, directing his remarks to sand Stripes, and disappeared ini the woods, like


SCOTTO, .THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

black and flitting shadows, relieved only by the
glitter of sabre-bayonets and unsheathed knives.
For a time, the clamor of human voices ceased.,
Both infantry and horse-stood silent, while the
rifled guns poured in their horrible hail of shell
and spherical'shot.   .     A
Then there arose a yell that made the forest
reverberate with a thousand thrilling echoes.
The Zouaves had crept upon a battery and taken
it. Immediately after, there was a terrific crash
that shook the earth, and made the air vibrate
in sulphurous waves. Another concealed bat-
tery had opened upon the gallant Zouaves, who
were flung backward inbleeding masses. -
" As I feared ! As I feared t" exclaimed Gird-
wood. " This is the Valley of Death."
"Too late to think on't," added Scotto. "We
must fight it out." Then to his Rangers:
" Boys, stan' your ground and strike whenever
there's a chance. Cut, hack, and slew! Eat
your way into this p'ison rebellion. Let 'em
see what's into ye."-
At that moment Major Meagher was seen riding
to and fro on a spirited horse, waving his hat,
and cheering the Sixty-ninth to the onset.
Sherman's battery replied as well as it could to
the rebel fire, and the battle again became gen-
eral. Scotto, at the head of his command, rag-
ed to and fro, seeking in vain for the )Black
Horse Cavalry. ,
And thus the conflict went on. The sun went
swimming past the meridian, red and fiery, ob-
scured by clouds of black and stifling snioke,
Men fell down and died. without wounds, from
heat and thirst.
The enemy gave groun'd. slowly at first, but
yith a rout at last. The victors cheered, and
the wounded and dying lifted up their voices
with the rest. The word passed up and down the
lines that the day was won. Comrades in arms
shook hands and congratulated each other, and
weary officers talked of a victory. Every loyal
heart beat high. Soldiers forgot eight hours of
fighting and a harrassing march beneath sultry
skies, and tasted their reward in the triumph of
the moment
CHAPTER XVI.
rH3 BLACK HORSM CAVALRY.
While the troops stood panting and thirsting,
there eame an order to fall back. No one could
definitely trace the origin of the order, butfpuch
an order there appeared to be; and various regi-
ments that had been most 'hotly engaged, much
thinned and disorganized, made a retrograde
movement to the open fields. Much 'surprised,
Girdwood - and Scotto followed them. When
they reached the open space, they found the
Fire Zouaves already there, cool, collected, ,and
charheteristically unconcerned. They, with the
debris of other regiments, were retreating slow-
ly, without hurry or flurry, toward their camp
at Centreville.

Girdwood presently heard the words. "John-
ston ! Re-enforcements I" which ran from mouth
to mouth along the broken lines. Just then
clouds of dust wet-e seen; indicating a grand
flanking movement of the enemy. The troops
quickened their pace. Scotto rode among diem,
entreating them to form again and fling back
the foe ; but the worried tides of men and horses
rolled on. Anon there was a cry : " The Black
Horse I The Black Horse !"
The officers made a desperate effort to stay
the' reflex current ; they shouted, persuaded,
threatened. Scotto and Girdwood aided them
in this endeavor, and finally the Sixty-ninth, a
Wisconsin regiment,' and a portion of the F-e
Zouavet, forced to receive the chai-ge of the
Black Horse Cavalry.
Scotto and his Rangers drew up on the left,
glad of an opportunity to meet that redoubt-
able body of men. They came with thunder-
ous noise, the heavy tramp of six hundred horses
shaking the ground like an earthquake. They
came in their pride, and insolence, and contempt
of Northern courage. The clank and jangle of
their spurs and sabres were like the din of
workshops.
Foremost among those charging squadrons
Girdwood descried the grim and stalwart figure
of Hurdlestone, He was leading the onset, and
his voice rang out stern and clear.
Girdwood'thought of Hope, and an involun-
tary shiver went over him.
A terrible silence fell upon the devoted regi-
ments. Each mant grasped more firmly his
musket, and turned a face of iron resolution to
the rushing foe. The front rank sank u pon one
knee, and with those in the rear, formed a fear-
ful wall of glittering bayonets. Not a gun was
fired till the Black Horse rangers were within
twenty yards, then a sheet of flame met them
in the faces, and the head of the column stag-
gered and fell.
While dizzy and reeling with the first shock,
another destroying storm of lead was poured
upon them, and the next in order went down,
to embarrass and obstruct those behind.  -
For a few moments there was a continuous
and deadly hail of Minis balls. Proud steeds
fell by scores. There was a fl ightful mass of
men and horses struggling in the throes of
death.
"Come on 1" shouted Scotto ; and leaning for-
ward in his saddle, he led his men into the
floundering chaos of the nearly-annihilated
cavalry. 'The Zouaves, with loud yells, plung.
ed after them, and when they came ont 'of the
melee, their long sabre-bayonets were no longer
bright, and horse and rider, on that field, were
found thrust through and through, when the
dead were buried. ' Some of those dark-haired
steeds were ridden to Washington by the lads
of the Eleventh.
From the writhing mass, a small body of

e

43


'          .-   SCOTTO, THE SCOUT; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.
norsemen tried to escape, but few succeeded;  "Ay, ay, cap'n I  2ill etch him  acar on
and of all those who rode so proudly to I he en- alive," responded the worthy corpora
counter, not a dozen rode back.              At that instant the hound, Jule, whien had
Girdwood looked eagerly for Hurdlestone, and followed Girdwood all through the fight, placed
began to believe that he was among the slain, its fore-feet upon the flank of Hlurdlestone's
when he discovered him upon his large horse, horse, and licked his hand, whining joyously.
leaping gliastly heaps of dead, parrying now a  "Jule ! Jule! Poor Jule !" sighed the colonel,
bayonet.tlhrust, now a sword-cut, now turning for the sight of the, animal made him think of
to the right or left, to avoid collision with over- Hope.
powering numbers. Ralph and Scotto saw him   " Colonel Hurdlestone, I hope you bear me
at the same moment, and spurred ,toward him ; no hardness ?" said Girdwood, riding "close to
but with very different motives. Sotto'rcach- the colonel. " Where is your daughter? Is
ed him first, and their swords were already she safe ?".
striking fire when Girdwood came up           " I know not," he answered, gloomily. " The
"Hold, Captain Scotto !" he cried. " Harm  farm-house. is torn in pieces by your snells, I
not this man. Sheathe your'sword. Mr. Hurdle- have heard." :
stone !"                                      "I will look for her," said Girdwood, hastily.
The earnestness of Girdwooa caused the scout  " To what end?" asked Hur-lestone, coldly.
to fall back.                                 "How can you ask, sir? '!o save her from
"What is it ?" he sharply demanded       danger andiinsult; to assur her of your safe-
"This is my friend. I wish to save him," ty ?" resnonded-Girdwood, somewhat indignant-
answered Girdwood, hurriedly,             'ly.
"Friends among the Black floss critters!  "Go, if you will; 'but I warn you tnat you
What's into ye ?" retorted the scout, evidently. will find it far safer to retreat with your flying
but little pleased.,                       columns, than to engage in such an undertak-
"ie patient, captain. Colonel Hurdlestone ?" ing. You -are dreaming wildly, young man. If
"Sir ?" responded the colonel, with grim  I was blind at first, I am no longer so. You
disdain..                   ,              are a traitor, sir! I detest traitors and spies !''
"Surrender your sword, and yield yourself a  "You may change your mind, sir  I a non-
prisoner."  .                               tent to remain under your displeasure till tie
Hurdlestone pointed with his blade to the dark days are over. While I give my love to
bloody field.                               your daughter, I am willing to give my blood
"Here," he said, hoarsely, "lie my comrades to my country. I pledge you my word for good'
in arms. They were the pride of Virginia. It treatment while a prisoner among us."
will be hard if I cannot die with them."     "Think you I care for such trifles?" answer
" It is the fortune of war, s:r. I entreat you ed Hurdlestone, curtly. "Good or ill usage ii
to yield !" interposed Girdwood..          the same to me. I have east my lot with the
"Never!" cried Hurdlestone, fiercely , gath- Confederates, and shall not murmur at the re-
ering up his reins, and cluteuii his weapon1 verses of fortune. Should you Lro on this mad
determinedly.                               errand, and chance to find my daughter, tell her
"For your own sake-for Hope's !" remon- that I am not ,disheartened, and yet have faith
,strated Ralph. "See ! you are surrounded. To in the Southern Stars. Before we part, take
resist is madness." .                       this advice from me: Crush the ill-timed and
"I care not for numbers," answered Hurdle- silly passion' that seems to liave sprung up
stone, after an instant's reflection ; " but you while you were an inmate of my house. Hope
bave named a name that has power. over inc. will he governed by the wishes of her-father."
Against Iny wishes, I yield."                ",Fall in, men !" cried' Scotto. "No time to
"Jes' so !" said Scotto. " You inigit as well waste."
surrender your sword and pistils.I reekin  You  The mounted scouts begin to form-
took away my tools, if my mem'ry sarves me,  "Lieutenant Scarle t, keep the. lads in good
mighty suddint, when I fell among thieves. You order," added Scotto. "Co'p'ril, where's them
talked about halters and hanging , seems to me. boy
Remember my featur's, dog't ye?"             "I left 'era clinched with a secesher. back
"Luke Scotto!" muttered Hurdlestone.    yender a piece. ; They was gitti ' e best on't,
"The:same as was down in Mexico," respond.  I guess, for he was-growin' blaeklithe face."
ed the scout. " The same as knowed you and   "-Let te clinch ! Fustthing they ever 'greed
Toutem Beauregard when you was better men. on. Forward, men I - Look well to the prison-
Co'p'ril Keith ! Where's Co'p'ril Keith ?"  er, One colonel's worth a dozen privates."
"Here" said a voice.                      Girdwood waited to hear no more, but dashed
"Here's a pris'ner, co'p'ril ; a eolonel,in the off, as nearly as he could judge, in the direction
rebel service. Take keer on him! Take him of the farm-house.
safe into camp, or you'll die a co'p'ril, depend ----
o'". 1"

SCOTTO THE SOIOUT; Or, THE UNION RANGERS.

45-

CHAPTER XVI.                    tag e 'il, and stretching to the right and left
with stern precision, formed three sides of a
.'HE EARCH FOR HOPI.       ,    hollow square, with cavalry in the centre.
As Girawoodi galloped away, lie passed the   Girdwood's hands fell ncr' less at his side.
brave Irishman that he had seen leading'and All the blood in his body appeared rushing to
cheering the Sixty-ninth. As lie swept by him, his heart.' He gasped for breath. The fearful
he saw his gallant horse torn in pieces by a truth rushed upon his apprehension. John-
cannon-ball. The poor beast fell upon its rider, stone, with thirty thousand men, had come to
'a mangled mass. Reckless of his own fate, he rob them of victory,~and fling back the weary
piade for the Warrenton Road.. There was still and scattered tides of the loyal army. It was a
firing from the woods and on the open field, line yet maddening spectacle !
and now .and then a shot or shell went whis-   He threw an anxious, troubled look backward
tling over his head, or near him.            and forward, and upon such portions of the
L-aping fences, and ditches, and fallen trees, field as he could see, and saw a direful panic
he attained the road in safety, and turned his seize our broken, staggering columns. Full of
horse's, head toward the Run. He met cais- dread, Ralph continued his course along the
sons, ambulances, and Union soldiers, in mod- road. It was then he saw a sight that cheered
orate r-treat.                       -       him.-Burnside's Brigade forming, in order, to
"Look 'e hyar !" said a voice.             cover the inevitable retreat. The batteries of
Girdwood mechanically drew rein, and glane- the brave Rhode Islanders were belching forth
ed around in search of the person who address- their deadly fires, and the gianlit Sprague was
ed him. Ils eyes presently fell on Zadoc conspicuous everywhere, when Ralph shot be-
'Murch.   He was standing beside a crippled yond the scene of action.
gun, to which the dead artillery-horses were yet  He had not galloped far, when lie heard the
attached. His face was black with powder, his clatter of hoofs behind him; and looking over
garments torn and stained, and his whole ap- hiis shoulder, caught a glimpse of a black horse
pearance indicative of the active and sanguina- in rapid pursuit.  Ile wheeled suddenly to
ry part he had borne in the struggle. His ex- bring down his foe with his rifle; but the rider
pression, howeve--, give no sign of flurry or tumbled from the saddle before he could bring
perturlation.. The formidable knife in his belt his piece to his shoulder. Some expert marhs-
was of an ominous hue, and lie held his rifle in man hind shot him from the woods. Ralph t-
his left hand by the muzzle, with the breech sumed his course again, and lie heard, as lie be-
upon the ground, .lieved, the riderless h rse galloping after him ;
" Look 'e hyar!"                           but a voice crying : " Look 'o hyar I" dispelled
"Is it you, Mr. Murch ?" responded Ralph, the illusion.
surprised.                                '    " Look 'e hyar !"
" I allow it is !" said Zadoc. "I want toshow  The black horse and Zadoc Murch' sprang to
ye a sight. Don't p'int yer rifle this yer way. his side. The young man knew not what t,
If I'd meant ye mischief, I'd done it afore this make of this strange character.
time, for I've both powder and lead in this hol-  " Where are yon going ?" he asked.
ler' consarn."  Zadoc raised the rifle a little and  - " Wharsomev"ryou go. Makes no odds. Il'm
let it fall again.                           to home anywhar. Trackin' the gal-ain't ye ?
" Which side are you fighting on ?" asked Yes! Thought voi was. 'Spect to be shot-
Girdwood, watching the m.n suspiciously.    don't ye ?" responded Zadoc, whose composure
" Fightin' on my own hook, I allow. What's never was disturbed.
the odds, so long as I fight? . Fightin' is nat'-  " I don't know what I expect, but I must find
ral to the human animil, and it must come .out her," replied Girdwood, hurriedly, forgetful of
at one time or another. But, mister. the fight- all personal considerations in his anxiety fir
in' for to-day is done. I tell ye, look 'e hyar I" Hope.
Zadoe Murch raised his muscular right arm,   " One party or t'other shelled the house. I
and pointed straight toward Manassas. Gird- earnn" said Zadoc. "There war wounded follis
wood looked. Ile dropped the reins; he rubbed in it, too, at the time. I allow that the gal
his eyes and questioned the-correctness of his can't stan' shot and shell."
vision. Flashing out from the enemy's extreme  " It don't seem to trouble you much !" re-
left, far up the green slopes, a dense column df torteil Girdwood, curtly, provoked at blis non-
infantry, with martial music, with floating ban- chalanei .
ners, with a forest of gleaming bayonets, with  " What do I want to be troubled-for ? There's
measured and regular tread, appeared in view! no good cones o' trouble, that I knows on.
It seemed a phantom host, adjured from bodi- You're ridin' by the path,.mister. We turn up
less snace, or a startling picture painted against hyar."
the lurid sky.                                 "I had forgotten.  Thank you, Murch. I
On and 'on rolled the portentous pareant. never traveled this ground but once, and then
Regiment after regiment burst from the glitter- in the night."


'B    .     SCOTTO, THE SCOUT: OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

"Exactly, mister. You brought dispatches
to B'uregard, I remember."
Zadoc glanced queerly at Girdwood.
"]Didn't go down much, I allow-them dis-
patches didn't. Pity you.should take up sich a
trade. You might a been some'at in the Con-
fed Army, if you'd been honest.  You lost a
chance, mister, and your wind along of it, nigh-
abouts. I'm strong tea for some kinds o' sick-
ness-I be1"
"I don't understand you yet, Mr. Murch."
"Shaller waters are easy measured. What
do you th nk o' that walk 'mong the masked
batteries.?'
"There was the trouble. We whipped the
.men, but we couldn't conquer the batte.-'es.
My God ! Where was Patterson ?"
"Playin' into the hands of Jeff Davis, I al-
low," answered Zadoe, somewhat testily.
"He should have engaged Johnston, at all
'hazards. He might, at least, have crippled his
energies, and kept him from Mantisas. His in-
efficiency is astounding ! We shall never have
a good army till 7e shoot a general, This day
has covered Patterson with shame."     -
"If I's on your se., I might think so," an-
swered Zadoc, grinding his quid of tobacco with
singular vigor. "Our luck is your misfortin'.
That's the way the world goes ; but may all
cowards and traitors be infernally boiled in ile !"
Zadoc rmade a twitch at his belt, then a
snatch at his knife, then jerked his little skull-
cap tightly to his head. .He seemed in .a highly--
nervous state, an1 ejected tobacco-juice copi-
ously. By-and-hy, lie straightened himself np
on his black horse, and said, with habitual brev-
ity:
"Look 'e hyar!"
They had reached the farmhouse, and Zadoe's
adjuration referred to it.  But how different
was its appearance from  a former occasion !
There were ragged rents in the roof, and the,
walls were driven out and shattered by shells.
There .were many bloody signs of a struggle
around it.  Several Confederate and a few
Union soldiers lay stiff and motionless on the
ground.
Throwing his rein over a post, Girdwood
sprang from the saddle and across the now-ap-
parently deserted threshold.  There was no
sign of life within. The floorsawere splintered
by explodi!tg missiles, and dirt from the cellar
beneath w:es east to the very roof-tree.
"4Miss i irllestone I  Miss Hurdlestonet!
Hope! !Iop" !" cried Girdwood.
A wounded I man, in, a corner, opened his
ayes langu ily. It was a Federal officer.,
" How goes the battle ?" he asked in a faint
mice.,
"Lost! lost!  Johnston, without striking a
blow, has rolled back the tides of victory. Our
weary columns are retreating,"     -
'ito officer groaned, and said no more. He

asked for neither water nor help. His reeling
faculties were grappling with the terrible truth
he had heard.
" Hope! Hope !" repeated Ralpa.
No voice responded to the name. He ran
from room to room. Signs of the sad desolation
of war met him at every step. I lis search was un-
successful. When he returned, Zadoc Murelh was
holding a vessel of water to the wounded officer's
lips. He was forcibly struck with this instance
of the rough man's kindness. While he contem.
plated tim with surprise, he j-ut down the ves-
sel, adjusted the officer in a more comfortable
position, then turning to Girdwood, said:
" She isn't hyar. Come along !"
Leaving the shattered house, they mounted
their horse, and Murch ook the lea,l. As tie
were passing some negro huts, Dagon appeared ,
but in a notable state of despondnety. he was
amazed:at seeing Ralph.
" l's 'stonished," he ex'-laimed, " to see ye
down dis yer way ag'in. Lor'! why don't ye
keep 'way from   de secesh, Mas'r Girdwoo ?
You'll be tooken, jest as true as preaching'!"
" I'm looking for your mistress. Have vou
seen her?"
" Seen her? Gorry, Mas'r Girdwooa     I's
seen noffin but mighty great- shells, sereamin'
through the air like a hundred pigs under a
gate. -The debble hisself is let loose. I s'peet!1
Whar's the end on't?    Whar are we comic'
to?"
"But your mistress ?"
"They looked, for all the world, like great
iron pots, them yer balls did. While tltey lay
fizzin' on the groun', and I went up to 'zamine
'cm, they went off like a keg o' powder, and the
dirt flew as no nigger could make it fly with a
plantation-hoe.. Gorry, mnas'r! I's covered all
over, I was,.and pieces of them yer iron pots
wentbuzzl buzz! whir! whir! in every d'rec-
tion, cuttin' off limbs o' trees, and damagin' the'
sogers and their bosses," continued Dagon, fol-
lowing the train of thoughtt t:at occupied his
mind.
" Well, your mistress ?" insisted Girdwood.
"Dar's whar I's in tronble! These yer same
iron pots has sploded in the house, bangin'
things all to bits, and I's afeard Missy Httrd'-
stone is blowed up. I speet," added Dagon, shak-
ing his head in the most mournful manner,
you'll find the pieces all about ver."
The powder-stained lips of Ladoe Mureh re-
laxed into a grim smile.
"She war a good missus, she war, ind she
went in strong for de liberty.  it sh' g1onie,
and who car's for de liberty, now ? I  'of! I
doesn't car' a hill o' corn for't. l's .,anser'ble
contraban', I is !"
"Cheer up, Dagon ! I have strong h"pes of
finding her uninjured," said Girdwood.
" Time was," continued Dagon, " when I'd
pull foot for de Norf with the faste-t runaway

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT; 'OR, THE UNION RANGERS.                        47
that ever was. But the run is all tooken out of The Union army is falling back to Centrevilie,"
me, now. I has nobody to car' for. No use to answered Girdwood.
play 'possum no longer. Might as well lay right  " You bring me bad news, Mr. Girdwood.
down and give up."                         My father is in the batde."
The hound, Jule, ran to Dagon, and fawned .She looked anxiously at the young man.
about him.                                   "I saw him not long ago. lie was unharmed,
"You here, ole gal ?" said the black, " I's though he had s'ood amid' a temu pest of lestrue-
glad to see you, I is! Thought we shouldn't tion. The Black Horse Cavalry went down,
meet no more till:I seed ye in the Ian' of Abe ,man and horse, before sweeping volleys of -u1s-
Linkum, where all de liberty's gone. You's a ;ketry. FroA out the struggling mass he came.
good pup, and lives 'cordin' to your natur'. unscathed.' replied Ralph, glad to give her such
Wouldn't cbase nig's 'less you'd' been teneled an asssu cee
to do it. You a'n't to blame for doin' what "Thankifeaven !" said Hope, fervently.
you've been teached. If I's runnin' for 1ezr / " It were perhaps unkind not to inform you
ife, you wouldn't run arter me, would ye, ole that he is a prisoner," added Ralph.
gal ?"                                       "'A prisoner ! He will be treated, then, as a
Dagon drew his leaden-hued and horny palm  prisoner of war. The Government at Washing-
over the hound's smooth head, and caressed her ton is a merciful one, and worse than cajptivity
tenderly.                                  might have befallen him," answered Hoje, re-
"sWhar's your missy, pup? Whar's your flectively.
missy ?  Your dog-utatur' couldn't tell me that,  "Mrey," observed Girdwood, "has been the
could it ?"                                weakness of the National Government. Colon(I
The hound looked up wishfully, and presently Hurdlestone will be well treated. I deem mty-
edgan to smell around in a circle,         self particularly fortunate in discovering your
"Scents the boom-shells, I 'spect," added Da- hiding-place. -'ho farm-house, lately so quiet,
gon.   a           -.                      i- now little better than a ruin. I was terrib!y
After a few gyrations, Jule started off into the nervous- about you."
woods.      .                                 "Laws, missy ! I thought you sploded with
"Come on," said Zadoc, following. " That the boom-shells. Gorry, Missy Hurd'stote,
pup's the best guide we can have. When I's them yer iron pots has give me a heap o' t ru-
m the mountains, I had a dorg that was so keen ble! Never' sperienced sick worriment as I has
o' scent, it could fuller a rifle-ball, e'enamost." this drefful day. How'd ye git here, missy,
Ralph moved after Murch,-Dagon trotting at anyhow ?" said Dagon, whose joy was visible
his horse's heels. They passed through an oak all over his black face.
glade; leaving the negro shanties behind, reach- " I came with Haimon, when the battle began
ng, after a five minutes' gallop, a heavier growth to roll toward the farm-house," replied Hope.
of wood, into which Jule sprang lightly and  " Where is lie?" -Dagon asked.
eagerly. Bending low to avoid the' branches,  "I sent him to get tidings of my father, if
they managed to keep the hound in sight, which possible. I have remained undisturbed. 1 still
presently led them to a small liut, of a fashion hear cannonading, Mr. Girdwood ?"
exceedingly, primitive, and in which she vanish-  "That's Burnside coverin' the retreat, I sl-
ed. Burning with expectation, Girdwood threw low," interposed Mureh, thrusting his begrim-
himself from the saddle, aad followed.     med face in at the door.
The first object that greeted his eye was Hope.  "Zadoc Murch!" exclaimed Hope, much
She was seated on a rude-bench, while Jule, with alarmed. " Mr. Girlwood, take care of yonr-
her slender paws upon her lap, expressed her self."
joy in various canine ways.                  " Look'e hyar, miss ! If you( want to Fine
"Why, Jule ! I am glad to see you, Jule !" your father t'other side o' the Cornfed lines,
cried Iope. She heard steps, and looking up, you'd better be moving . Young man, why don't
beheld Girdwood. A mingled expression of sur- you talk to some account, and not be- runnin' on
rise and pleasure swept over her features. She in this idle way? Take up the gal, if it's the
alf-arose, then sank back, quite overcome by gal you're arter, and let us off at onee, 'less "ou
emotion.                   "               have a mind to be hanged, as you soon will be
"Miss Hurdlestone," he exclaimed, "I am re- if you stay hyar."
joiced to find you I I feared that you had suf-  "Right, right! Miss. Hurdlestone, intrust
fered from the casualties of this stirring day." yourself to me. There's no safety here for you,
" You bright well call it a dreadful day, Mr. or those of your.sentiments."
Girdwood, without exaggeration," responded   "He deelar's the plain truth, Missy Burd'-
Hope. " But before more is said, tell me if the stone. Jes' mount dat yer Boss, and we'll make
Stars and Stripes are moving toward Manas- tracks for the only land o'.liberty in the world.
sas ?"                                     Your fader and Abe Linkum'l he proper glad
4 Alas, no! The arrival of Johnston has to see ye," urged Dagon, earnestly.
plucked the laurels of victory from our brows  Miss Hurdlestone arose, hesitated,' blaad-1,


SCOTTO, THE.SCOUT; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

and gave her hand to'Girdwood, who, with swell-
ing heart, led her from the but, and assisted her
to mount his horse.
CHAPTER XVIII.
MURC'i GUIDZS     'URAI.
Murch vaulted to the-aa&amp;dlend the parties
moved on, Girdwood walkin' at the bridle-rein
of his horse, well pleased to be near. Miss Hurdle-
stone, and have her in charge.
" I's heerd a leap bout de Nerf o dr," said
Dagon, "and I should like mjghty well to '.O
dat yer."
"It is best seen in the night," replied Ralph.
"It's not the star of Dixie."
" Don' know 'bout that, mas'r.. There's many
eyes down in Dixie as would be proper glad to
git a glimpse of dat yer star. Lots o' contra-
ban's has struck out for it right through swamps,
alligator bayous, across rivers, and through
much tribulation.""
"You jest let the North Star alone, boy!i" in-
terposed Zadoe. " You've got a flat foot, a flat
nose, a flat forehead, thick lips, long hands, and
ha'r that is wool. You belong, I allow, to a flat
race; and the best thing you can do is, to be
happy with, hard work and enough to eat' and
drink. What you want o' liberty-eh? Wouldn't
know what to do with it if you hadtever so much
don't. Wish you's all back ag'in whar youcome
from ! You've jest fixed the Southerners, you
nigs have ; fixed 'em so they won't work their-
selves, nor let other white folks work.  But
come on if you want to. 1I don't keer ouch if
you run -right among the 'bolitionistsand git
into all kinds o' trouble. Be gladto git back
ag'in, I guess, if you once cross the Potomac.
If 1's your master, I wouldn't have ye, if ye
come back never so humble and whimperin'.'
Zadoc threw an inquiring look upward through
the branches of the trees at the smoky sky, and
.quickened his pace. Night was drawing on;
,but the sounds of strife had not ceased; they
reached the earn of the fugitives from various=
quarters. The boom of cannon and the burst-
ing of shells were.ever and anon audible.
Zadoe bore away across the country, keeping
in the. woods as much as possible, and avoiding
the open fields. They had not proceeded far
in this manner, when they found themselves
near, the skirmishers of Johnston's flanking
column, and were obliged to pause in - their,
flight.-
Squads of the Black Horse Cavalry which
had not yet been in action, were seen hurry-
ing toward Centreville. Their position was now
extremely precarious. Thsey could neither tu'n
back nor go forward.   Girdwood looked at
Zadoc with painful'perplexity. .
"Our embarrassment," lie rNnarked, "in-
creases at every step."
If you'll leave the gal, you can git out o'

this hyar," answered Zadoe,- glancing queerly
at Hope.
"Itis not to be thought of!" returned Gird-
wood, quickly and curtly.
"You see, squire, that men-critters can go
where women-eritters can't, on account 9 their
clothes and their daintiness.' Gal's flesh is as
tender as a young partridge. The brush and
bushes of swamps and wools tears their plum.
age to bits in scurcely no time."
" Whatever comes of it, I remain with Miss
Hurdlestone," said Ralph, firmly.
"Save yourself!" exclaimed Hope. "My
arigcr is' not comparable to yours. As the
daughteg of Colonel TIlurdlestone, ,I am  safe
.With the Coifederates ; although I confess it
will be a severe disappointment f I cannot join
my father, and lighten his captivity. by my
presence. Reflect, Mr. Girdi'ood, on the fait
your re-ci'ture involves."
Miss llurdlestone spoke with much animaa-
tion.
" I shall not desert you while thought worthy
by you to be trusted with the care of your per-
son."  Then to Zadoc:-. "Come, Mr. Morch,
secure us a present hiding-place. Sur ly you
arek acquainted with this portion of the coua-
try."
"Look 'e hyar ! Keep that pup in, Dragon !"
said Zadoe, with a warning motion to Dagon.
"Can't have that pup seoutin' aroun'. Keep
her clost under your nose, or you'll never see
the North Star till your ha'r is whiter nor your
ivories. Come on,- white folks ! I'm a strong
tea, I' be, with bitterness for the mouth, and
sickness for the head. Good for all sorts o'
complaints, this wildcat is. I'm a extract of
down South. ' Car'line and Kentuck, Missip,
Texas, and the border, is b'iled into me."
Murcli seemed infinitely relieved by this out.
burst, and turned' his horse's head toward the
darkest recesses of the forest, while the Confed-
erates were heard sweeping through the glades
on eitherside. Advancing to where the trees
stood more closely, and the foliage was more
eonipact, he dismounted and led his dark and
glossy steed by the bridle.
" Softly, youngster, softly !" admonished Za-
doe. "Pay a leetle attention to your stepping'
as well as to. the, gal. Dry sticks '11 break, if
you tread on 'em rough."
Girdwood blushed consciously, while Hope
smiled at the quaintness of their guide.
It now grew suddenly dark. They had enter-
ed a swampy dingle so,dense with folliage, that
it well nigh shut out the light of day. Even
this secluded spot had been visited by destrue
tive missiles, for the young man stumbled over
a round shot, and anon tripped on a fragment
of shell.
"Big Union gun !" said Zadoc, explanatorily,
" Awful range. 'Thirty-two pounder! No way
o' fightin', that. isn't. If human critt-rs wani .

N
O
ci
2
N!
O.

11
4

48 .


SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ;-OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

to fight, let 'em eome up and tackle each other, I Hope. He was not embarrassed for want of
hand to hand, and weapon to weepon. Whar's thoughts, but for the power to choose and ex-
the good o' killin' a critter a mile off, with a press them as the proprieties of the position
ball as big as a tumble o' hay ! Look 'e hyar !" demanded.
Zadoc wheeled front face upon his auditQrs.  Twilight was creeping into the dingle. The
'"Them rifle cannon be damned ! They take atmosphere was yet charged with sulphurous
the legitimate business out o' the hands o' the vapors, ever suggestive of the direful scenes of
nat'ral - born fighter.  They're like sewin'- the past day. The shadows of the closely-com-
machines to sewin' gals. They throw the reg'- pasted trees and dark-green foliage added to the
lar workers out o' employment. 'Tisn't par- gloom of coming night. They seemed to in-
sonal bravery that decides battles nowadays, habit an inner mystic circle of silence and som-
but the cussed artillery 1" With a deprecating breness, while the outer circumference, stretch-.
sweep of the hand, Murehi went on again, to ing away over the battle-field, was at intervals
pause presently, and repeat his favorite expres- broken by a random gun, pr an occasional burst
sion - Look 'e hyar !"                      of artillery. The dead within that red circum-
Both Girdwcod and Miss Hurdlestone looked, ference (brave fellows-!) were at peace ; but the
and beheld indubitable evidence of previous oe- wounded (poor lads!) were suffering the tor,
cupation of the p lace. Upon a pole, supported ments of thirst, with no prospect of immediate
by two sticks driven into the earth, lung a relief.
camp-kettle over some charred brands. A little  Girdwood himself was weary, and began to
back of this was a roof of boughs, upheld by feel inconvenience from various slight injuries
a scaffolding of poles, placed on convenient he had received in the action. He scorned to
limbs, or in notches cut in the trunks of tre-s. complain, while ready to weepbitter tears over
This small, extemporized covering, sloping on the loyal dead and dying. He sat down near
one side nearly to the ground, with the front Hope. Both, though busy with thoughts of
and ends open, was, nevertheless, a welcome that historical day, were strangely conscious of
shelter to Hope, on whom the excitement of each other.
that and previous days had exercised a depress-  "The dingle is very dark," said Hope.
ing influence. Now that the unnatural pressure  "It might be darker," answered Ralph, myth.
was subsiding, weariness caine heavily upon ically. He was thinking how much darker the
her..                                       dingle would be if she were not there. .t was
" You can rest byar," said Murch, drawing a a lover's platitude. Girdwood came out of his
blanket from beneath the dried leaves, and abstraction with a blush at his absurdity.
doubling it in folds for Hope to sit upon  "I'm  "Darkness, after all," he added, "is a com-
guin' out to take a peep at things, and Mr. parative thing, like happiness.  Objects are
Girdwood '1 take good care of ye till I git back. dark or light, as the heart feels dark or light.
Don't be afeard. If there's trouble, I'll be hyar My prison was dark at the farm-house till a
to help ye."  Then to Dagon: "Dragon, keep white messenger dropped at my feet; then my
your pup in, and a shaip look out for your mis- prison was light. I knew that you were near ;
tress. And by-and-by, if you ain't disturbed, that a thin partition only divided us. But you
build a fire under that thar kittle."      might have been near, and. not given me a
Zadoc took the saddle from his newly-acquir- thought. You remembered me. You beamed
ed black horse, and hitched it within reach of a upon my sadness like a star. You put forth
green patch of grass, and then, rifle in hand, your hands to aid me, when every rational ex-
stalked away.                               peetation was eluding my grasp."
His enunciation was rapid-and earnest.
CHAPTER XIX. '                  "Your active imagination gives me too much
LIGHTS AND SHADOWS.             goodness.  These are troublous times, NMr.
Girdwood heard the concluding remarks of Girdwood."
Murch without fully realizing their import till  "Troublous, truly ! But I was th inking, not
he had left them, and disappeared in the dingle. of the times, but of you. Or rather, I find it  4
Dagon, withdrawing a short distance, stretched difficult to separate and disconnect the two.
his dark proportions on the ground, and, direct- You and I have played parts in the drama. 1
ing his eyes upward, seemed to be looking for little thought that my nocturnal ride to Ma-  6
the North Star ; while Jule, crouching beside nassas would affect so deeply my inner life."
him, watched his unchanging visage through the  "Is there not a glimmering of light jnst
deepening haze.                            above us ?" asked Hope. I fancied the clouds
Ralph felt himself alone with Miss Hurdle- pushed away a little."
stone. It was the 'first time they had been  " You can turn those clouds into banks of
thrown so entirely together, with such apparent golden light. Miss IIlurdlestone, I have not,
immunity from -interruption. The newness of and shall not attempt to.disguise my sentiments.
the situation 'confused him. Though brave to This may not be.well-timed, but, Hope, oppor-
face an enemy, he faltered in the presence of tunity is everything."

5I


SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.   63

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

" I am sure, Mr. Girdwood, that the clouds
swing less heavily to and fro. Do you not see
the wefts of siver ining  ' murmured Hope,
softly.
" May I interpret the metaphor as my heart
dictates ?' cried Ralph, capturing a lighter
hand than he had taat d.iy encountered in the
field. " Not the thought of personal danger ,
,,ot the war itself, wouid abate my joy, if one
siuort word by your :ips were spoken."
'-u- ir aq1iutanee is brief. Ask not too
uie. Turn your eves upward, Mr. Girdwood.
See the light steal through the narrow rifts! Is
it not a promise of future brightness ?"
Hope's voice was low and gentle. Her eyes,
which were upturned a moment, fell modestly
beneath the drooping lashes. ,
Girdwood pressed the imprisoned hand to his
lips. His blood was in a pleasing commotion.
H is pleasure was equaled only by his gratitude.
He dared not trust himself to believe too much,
or to give an overwrought coloring to her sim-
ple words.
"It is the fault of man to be too sanguine,"
be saL, when calm enough to speak with com-
p -suoe. "I will endeavor to bear your over-
w:teliming kindness with humility."
"' Speak not of humility ! I am but dust and
ashes. In this world, words are of little worth.
Be reasonable. Hope not too much; for the
exigencies of the times are such, that every-
tuing relating to us is involved in uncertainty.
Even our friendship may be rent 'sunder by the
terrible vicissitudes of war. Think of my
father !"
" He stands between us, angry and stern !"
exclaimed Girdwood. "But the war must some-
tune end. The rancor of political feuds may
not embitter his after-life. The restored Union
and peace may soften his prejudices and temper
his hatred."
" Believe it not ! Believe it not I" cried a
voice, that made Girdwood and Hope spring to
teeir feet. The grim and powerful figure of
Colonel Hudlestone loomed before them.
"Mv father!" exclaimed Hope, rimning to-
vurdh inm, with outstretched hands. Hurdle-
w 'zi-' r'oljulsed her moodily.
- uu oure no daughter of mine !" he mutter-
ed, with a gloomy brow. " If you drew legiti-
mate blood from these veins, von would love
w.iat I love, and hate what I hate. Father and
dirt iter are one: you and I are not one."
i' eraned from her, folding his arms upon
A  breast, with-sullen pride.
Nay, father, we are one in all but this mad-
,. e of rebellion," answered Hope, with touch-
nf  ;,n fderness.
kladness: Who dares call it madness?!' he
rutrted, slaking her off, for she had laid a gen-
Lie rand on his shoulder.
--Call it what you will ; I will not gainsay.
But I think I know how it will end."

Hurdlestone turned slowly upon Girdwood.
" So, sir I" he began. "This is the way you
protect my daughter. This comes of your umag-
nanimity in seeking her after the battle."
"Your reproaehes, sir, have some point of
justice ; yet I swear to you ,that what I have
said was upremeditated," answered Ralph.
" Unpremeditated !" sneered  the colonel.
"The worst of criminals might- plead that ex-
cuse in extenuation of crime. It was for this
you sought my daughter, and decoyed her foot-
steps hither !"
" Colonel Hurdlestone, I must beg of you to
use no language that a man of honor may not
hear without offence," returned Ralph, with
dignity. "If Miss Hurdlestone has received a
disrespectful word or look from me, I will not
evade the responsibility, but hold myself ac-
countable for the same."
" Most kind ! Most considerate I" murmured
Hope.
" Too kind-too considerate !" vociferated the
colonel. "It is this kindness and consideration,
as you daintily term it, that I complain of. A
fine time, girl, for love-making, when your father
ws a prisoner, and your native soil overraun
with Federal hireling-hordes!"
" While regretting and deprecating your an-
ger, I rejoice at your escape," observed Gird-
wood.
" Young nnan, the best advice I can give you
is, to follow the retreating rabble of the Wash-
ington Army. As for my daughter, the pater-
nal aim, I trust, will be found sufficient to pro.
tect her. Be wise, and return no more to Ma-
nassas. Should you unhappily disregard this
injunction, the reward you have earned will be
rigorously meted out to you. I go to join my
friends of the victorious army. Come, girl--
minion-ingrate ! Follow me p'"
.Hurdlestone looked at his daughter as if he
expected and exacted obedience.
Girdwood stoodconfounded and wondering.
The man whom he had believed a prisoner
on his way to Arlington was before him, to
dampen the first glow of his feelings, rob him
of Hope, and baffle his plan. An emotion of
rushing disappointment came upon him. The
light no longer crept through the drift of smoky
clouds. Darkness rolled in upon the dingle.
The metaphor of Hope had, apparently, lost its
meaning. The silver lining had departed.
CHAPTER XX.
LOO    'E HitAR!
The dark-green leaves fluttered and rustled in
the stillness. A puff of hot and stifling air swept
down from the b tattle-field. For a moment it
seemed to Girdwood that the earth was reeling
under his feet.
" Follow m !" repeated the colonel. " As for
you, sir," he added, with a stern glance at Ralph.

r
A
4
fY
k
Y
v

as for you, sir, misguided young man, escape
while you may."
He turned slowly to go, and Hope made a
step forward.
"Look 'c hyar !"
The parties started, as if simultaneously
thrilled by a shock of magnetism. Moving
from beneath the foliage that drooped over the
camp, the short, stout personality of Zadoo
Murch advanced quietly and laid his hand on
Hurdlestone's shoulder.
"Look 'e hyar !"
Never before had Girdwood heard this singu-
lar man throw so much meaning into these
words.-
" You here !" exclaimed the colonel.'
" I'm hyar !" said Murch, gruffly.
" Well ?" queried Hurdlestone, curtly.
" I allow that you're a prisoner," said Mureb,
ungraciously.
" Not long since I was a prisoner, but now I
am free," answered the colonel, with a flush o
pride and conscious strength.
"Did ye give your peril of honor ?" asked
Zadoc, with increasing amoiguity of manner.
" Not I! I gave a few lusty blows and the
spurs to, niy horse and you see me here," re-
sponded Hurdlestone, who prided himself on his
prowess. " Hope, take moy arm," he added.
" You're hyar, but not free," continued
Murch.
" What do you mean, sir?" cried Hurdlestone,
angrily. "I don't comprehend your bearing,
sir."
There was a stir of feet on the dry leaves.
Hurdlestone felt himself seized by the'legs and
shoulders. He shook himself like a rampant
horse, but without freeing himself from his un-
expected assailants.
Girdwood, who perceived the true condition of
affairs, saw the fighting brothers clinging about
thencolonel's nether limbs, like young anacondas,
and Corporal Keith clutching him firmly by
the collar.
Luke Scotto walked composedly from among
the trees into the foreground.
" This hyar is my meanin'," said Murch.
"Traitor!" hissed Hurdlestone.
" I'm the extract of sev'ril States," quoth Za-
doe, "and a strong tea for some kinds o' sick-
ness. Call me what you will."
" Give us the slip, didn't ye, colonel?" said
Scotto. "Co'p'ril Keith, you ain't the man I
took ye to be."
"As we's ridin' along," answered the corporal,
" the twins clinched, and I went to separate
'em. While I was a uutwistin''em, the prisoner
rode down and knocked down the guard, and
streaked it. I cut arter him, and here he is." ~-
" Stop shakin' him ! What's into ye, co'p'ril?
You've got him, theerfore be quiet. Colonel,
don't be rampageous. Submit like a man. The
thing's agin ye, and you can't help it. There's

a squad o' the star-spangled er'tters within call,"
said the scout, with that easy self-composure
that characterized-him.
" You speak truly," responded Hurdlestone,
with gloomy grandeur. "Fate orders it. CUil
off these curs, and I give you my word that I
will make no attempt to escape, unless rescued
by my friends."
"You do well," returned the scout. " Your
word is taken, although- one who has proved
false to the flag mayn't be fully trusted. Doe t
flush up, colonel, for I say it, as 'twere, in sor-
row."
," You know the fortunes of the day, I sup
pose ?" interrogated the prisoner, with a smile
that could not be mistaken.
" Repulsed, but not beaten. It brings you no
nearer the eend, and only lengthens the war.
Your masked battery, login victory, avails n-
what, for 'tisn't follered up by Beauregard. Our
troops '11 reach their old campin'-ground in safe-
ty ; and carter this the army '11 be made over:id
perpar d to put down this p'ison rebellion. TIs
'Il wake up and open the eyes of Gover'nweiit
and People."
The righteousness and greatness of hiseaiuse
shed a notable dignity over the features of Luke
Scotto. Ilurdlcstone looked at him and in\ol-
untarily sighed. Possibly a thought of Wash-
ing~tn, the Revolution, and the heritage of fre-
dom, left a mournful, regretful track along toe
road of memory.
"Had you brought the whole North down to
Manassas," he said, presently, with an obvious
effort to shake off his depression, " we shom d
have whipped you."
" You bought, and then ag'in you moughtn't:"
returned Scotto, with composure. " Let s be
movin'," he added, "for the remnant of the
Black Boss is ragin' up and down, s'archin' f r
them as is -unfort'nately cut off fropAWe maia
body of our trops."o                  m
" Where's that trai' or and villain ?" asked
Hurdlestone, glancing about. for Mureb. But
Zadoc had mysteriously disappeared. and the
colonel was left in doubt respecting his charae-
ter.
The parties followed Scotto a few rods, and
found, farther up in the dingle, a dozen of the
Independent Rangers waiting the coning of
their leader.
CHAPTER XXI.
SCOTTO AND THE REnEL LEADER.
"Well, captain, what's to be done ?" asked
one of the men. " The rebels seem to be pre ty
plenty hereabouts. I can hear them stirring on
both sides of us."
" Dismount, lads, and let your h rses bre the
some'at, and wherever you see a bunch o',grass,
let the poor critters have it. It may be   ut ,t
to stay awhile where we are. Artr -I've t am
our bearin's, we'll make a fresh "mit, v-' p


SCOTTO, THE SCOUT-; OR, THE UNION RANG 5.    65

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

look favorable. With women folks along "-he
looked at Hope-"'twould be foolish to show
ourselves unnecessarily to the rebels."
66I know," he went on, reflectively, " that we
might hack, hew, and slew, peradventur'," but
the dainty body of the young woman ain't bul-
.t-proof; theerfore we must conduct ourselves
oeorlin'."
"Let me refresh your memory," said Hurdle-
stone to the scout, as he was moving away.
"If there is an attempt at rescue by my com-
panion--in-arms, I shall not remain passive."
"1I understand , sir," returned Scotto, coldly.
" In that event, your word isn't pledged to stay
with us any longer nor we can keep ye. South-
ern honor mustn't be tarnished, I reckin I"
Luke Scotto shrugged his shoulders, and there
was, a quiet sarcasm in his voice that was suf-
filecntly obvious. Then to his followers:
"Men, take good care of the prisoner." With
this parting -injunction Scotto walked away, and
was soon hidden from view by the trees. He
passed from the dingle on that side commanding
the best view of the battle-field. Climbing a
sharp eminence, be strained his eyes in the di-
rection of Centreville and -Warrenton Road.
But the shadows of evening lay like a dim man-
tte over the scene. Here and there lights were
flashing, like faint and erratiemeteors. Already
had anxious friends gone forth to search for fa-
miliar faces among the dead and wounded. It
was the old, sad, and often-enacted afterpiece of
battles. He could hear the sound of hurrying
feet, as squads of horsemen swept to and fro
from various quarters. Beneath the hazy cano-
py, scarcely distinguishable from other objects,
lie caught phantom glimpses of fragments of in-
fantry, flitting and fluctuating like the billows
of a disturbed sea. Borne on the passing breeze,
the low and melancholy wail of the wounded came
to his ears. He had heard that mournful music
before. He had grown acquainted with it in
bloody raids of the border, and on the red fields
of Mexico.
" They wanted war," said Luke, speaking
aloud, " and they've got it. We've got the
worst on't this time, but the next time the Union
banners move toward Manassas, they won't float
over an armed mob."
The sharp' clang of iron hoofs startled Scotto,
and out short his soliloquy. A horseman spur-
red up the ascent. Scotto prudently stepped
behind a sturdy oak, while the headlong rider,
reaching the summit of the eminence, paused to
breathe his panting steed. Giving a slack rein
to the reeking animal, the rider endeavored to,
separate the realities before him from the pre-
vailing shadows. He seemed exultant, yet
doubtful and perplexed.
"They'll make a stand at Centreville," he
muttered. "Surely, they don't mean to run to
Washington. This must he a ruse to draw us
on. Johnston hesitates. He fears to hurl his

forces against them. Accursed darkness that
covers both friend and foe !"
The horseman bent over his horse's mane,
and looked with the utmost intensity. He saw
the same objects that Scotto had seen, but with
far different feelings.
"Victory! victory !" he added. "The old
flag flies! My name shall live in history. Be'
fore me are power and dominion ! The Great
Republic is dead !"
" Touton Beauregard !" said a stern yet steady
voice.
The horseman gathered up the flowing rein
and turned quickly toward the person who had
thus addressed him. He beheld Luke Scotto,
with the barrel of his cocked rifle resting in the
hollow of his left arm. The sight, for a mo-
ment, paralyzed him. He knew well the man ;
his integrity ; his - stern patriotism ; the iron
rigidness of his resolves, when once formed
The triumph of Manassas, the glory of the
hour, .faded away.  The fresh laurels on his
brow withered as by the blighting touch of
lightning.
"Touton Beauregard !"
The tones of the scout thrilled to the marrow
of his bones.
" Luke Scotto !" faltered the victorious gen-
eral.
" How good is yonr memory !" said Luke,
with ominous sang froid. "If you hadn't seen
me, you wouldn't knowed me, I reeko. This
isn't like Mexico-is it ? We didn't see no flag
with seven stars on't down there !"
The Confederate officer sat silent in the sad-
dle, gazing vacantly at Scotto.
"'Tisn't long since you had me at your head-
quarters, with your secesh rabble around me,
talkin' of halters and spies. My life seemed as
nowhat in your eyes. I was a Northern mud-
sill, to hang atween the heavens and the airth
Now I have you, traitor ! This weepon 'that's
leveled on ye, has brought down a man at eigh-
ty rods, and, can do the same at a hundred.
The muzzle, as I hold the thing careless in my
hand, covers your heart. Why should I spare
you, Touton Beauregard ?"
He paused, standing stiff and stirless as iron.
"The world would be better for't," he went
on. " No true man would weep, but for your
sins. In time to come, when this twenty-first
day of July hes passed into history, some at
like this mought be found in the record: 'Beau-
regard, the rebel general, was shot the evening'
arter the battle by Luke Scotto- . man wo
sarved his country acordin' to his abilities,
without hope of fee or rewirl. His friends
buried him in the night, and the grave of the
traitor is unknown and unmarked by stone or
tributetof affection.'"
A breathless silence followed. The distant
occasional firing rendered it more impressive.

The general's stunned faculties began slowly to
react. His blood flowed and glowed again.
"It is not my destiny 1" he said, somewhat
hoarsely.
"You're the Napoleon of the South, I s'pose,
theerfore have a star? Don't be misled by
stars, Touton. There's but one star worth the
nindin', and that's the star of honor. I've
heerdof the North Star; but who ever heerd
of the South Star ?" answered Scotto, his rifle
still turned upon the chieftain.
" The Southern Star," returned Beauregard,
" is the star of empire."
"And it rolls torards the- Gulf!" retorted
Luke, with dignity. "It rolls not West'ard nor
North'ard. Not by no means! The light of
your star will be quenched in the waters of the
Gulf o' Mexico."
" The fanaticism of the North !" sneered
Beauregard, whose only hope was to engage the
scout in conversation, and watch for the favor-
able moment of escape. He had reason to be-
lieve that his friends were not far distant. They,
might come up; his stern captor might be
thrown off his guard, or something to his ad-
vantage might in some way happen. He did
not abandon hope. He would not and could not
perish without tasting the fruits of victory. He
-wanted to hear a gaping multitude cry : "There
goes the man who defeated the Union Army !"
" Fanaticism and zeal are much alike, I allow,"
said Scotto. "Without zeal, a man's nowhat.
There's nothing' into him to give him energy.
But I'll preach you a sarmon at another time ;
theerfore, git off that hoss. A prisoner a hoss-
back is a prisoner with the advantage of four
hoss legs to two man legs."
"Luke Scotto," answered Beauregard, with
earnestness, "hear me ! As you value rank,
and riches, and a name, hear me !" -
"Go on, Touton ! Go on, for half a minute,"
responded Scotto, still standing firm and straight
and unbending in his simple integrity.
" Go with me, Luke Scotto. Yield your ad-
vantage. Trust your future fortunes in my
hands."
He spoke rapidly and with emphasis.
"To what end ?" asked Luke.
" To the end of riches and rank. Look at
me ! I am fresh from the battle-field. I am
flushed with my first great victory !" -
The voice of the rebel chief might have mov-
ed one whose loyalty was less.
"If you was flushed with a thousand victor-
les, 'twould be the same !" replied Luke, with-
out the slightest sign of relenting.
" To go with-you, is to go to the halter,",con-
tinued Beauregard. "A prisoner to t'he Fed.
erals I will never be. A rifle-ball would be far
more friendly and welcome than such a fate.
No! no! that may never be. As I said, you
have me at an advantage ; but tell me the price
of this advantage, and I give you my word of

honor as a man and a soldier, that it shall be
paid to the last farthing."
" Tempt me not ! Tempt me not, for I bear
you no good will," answered Scotto. ",Give
me all the Confederate bonds, all the Confeder-
ate cotton, all the Confederate niggers, and all
the Confederate gold, and I wouldn't let you go
of my own will!"
The scout, in the pale moonlight, looked
really sublime. His rude eloquence smote the
heart of Beauregard more than the sound of
the Federal cannon he had heard that day. His
brave words gave manhood and beauty to his
character.
"I believe in my destiny !" muttered Beaure-
gard, watching the dark barrel of the rifle, re-
solved to strike the spurs deeply into his horse
and dare the menacing bullet. Had any other
hand held the weapon, his fears for the result
would have been infinitely less ; but the quick
eye, steady arm, and sure finger of the scout,
rendered the trial no ordina-y risk. He was
about to lance the reeking. sides of the animal,
when the leveled rifle was suddenly struck up.
ward by another hand, and the contents were
discharged in the air, and, to his joy, the Con-
federate officer perceived the well-known form
of Zadoe Murch. ., Ie spurred to aid him, ex-
claiming, as he drew and presented a pistol at
Luke:
" Die, obstinate villain !"
"Nary die !" cried Zadoe, interposing his
burly body between the pistol and Scotto. "Pat
up that weepon, B'uregard."
"Nay, but the rascal would have shut me 1"
remonstrated the general, provoked at the in-
terference.
" Look 'e hyar !" retorted Murch. "I saved
your life.
" And it may cost ye some'at, too," muttered:
the scout, leaning moodily on his empty rifle..
" No matter why I saved your life, but I say.
ed it," continued Murch. "Prehaps 'twas be-
cause you saved me from bein' hacked to lits
in a row down at the Run-; and prehaps 'twasn't.
Who keers? Be that howsomever it may, this
man mustn't be etched. He's got the true-grit.
in him, he has. ~ When a man's got the true grit,
I don't mind wlar I find him, nor which side
he's on. I stick to him, I do !"
" You are a strange fellow !" said Beaure-
gard, reluctantly returning his pistol to the
holster.  "You must have your ows way, I
suppose. I owe you something for-your-time-
ly interference. A victorious leadenshould not
die on the day of victory. Come;: will you go-
with me, or shall I leave you in such question-
able company ?"
"Go your way, gin'ral. Look arter that Star
you war jist speakin' of, and leave me to look
arter mine.  You owe me nothing' worth the
mentioning . I trust when I see you ag'in, it
may be at Wadhin'ton, or Baltimore. or -


Is               SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; GR, THE UNION RANGERS.
delphy,'or some o' them ere doomed cities !" ed one of the men. "lHe don't see nothin' but
said Murch, with an expression not easy of com- her, and no bullet could touch her, if he could
prehension.                                get between her pretty body and it."
"As you will," answered Beauregard ; and   " Be ready and steady, boys !" admonished
,with a flush on his brow, and a singular smile the corporal. "Remember what you're fighting'
on his lips, he spurred down the declivity and for. Here we are in the open. Draw up in//
disappeared. The clatter of his horse's hoofs some kind-of order, for-I see horses' heads over
was-soon heard in the valley below          yonder."   yo
-                         "You may see their bodies,- if you like, forf!                           1
CHAPTER XXII.                  here they come !" responded  his right-hand
ALONE.                   man, drawing a sabre that might have answered
Meantime matters did not go smoothly at the very well for that stalwart hero, William Wal-
dingle. While the Rangers stood beside their lace, in the olden days of Scottish valor.
weary horses, a volley of pistol-shots suddenly While the Ranger was speaking, a body of
startled them from their fancied security. A  cavalry, outnumbering our-little party thage to
few of the boldest plunged into the surrounding one, came dashing toward there.
thickets and endeavored to find the enemy ; but  Girdwood's first thought was of Hope. He
not succeeding in this, the whole party moved feared to leave her, and he Could not remain
quickly from the ravine, believing, they could idle while:bhis arm was 'needed.' She perceived
resist attacks more efficiently in the open fields his embarrassment.'1
than when hemmed in by trees and shrubbery    "Think- not of me !" she exclaimed. " Do
that gave abundant shelter to an enemy on foot, your duty. Yonder thicket will afford me -shelter
who could not be reached by mounted men.   and concealment. I have-only to ask that you
Two of the Rangers were slightly wounded, wili remember that yonder brave man is my
and several bullets whistledin dangerous prox- father. His escape cannot be prevented. I am           '
imity to Hope. Greatly alarmed for her per- sure your hand-"
sonal safety, Girdwood hastened to her side, but  "Will never be turned against him, save in
looked vainly for a foe. Colonel Hurdlestone self-defence," interposed Girdwood, quickly.
accommodated himself to the movements and   "You/are loyal, you are generous !" answered
wishes of his captors in moody silence. Neither Hope, with emotion.
passing bullet nor fear for his daughter seemed  "Miss Hurdlestone, one word : If I fall-if
to disturb him. -His bearing was that of one we are, parted-if we never meet again, know         c
who had determined to meet everything that that I loved you !' His foot was in the stirrup;
might happen with firmness and lofty misan- he vaulted to the saddle, gazed at her an instant;
thropy. The Basketeers, Peleg and Pickering, waved his hand toward the thicket, and drawing
were the only ones who really relished the situ- his. sword, spurred to meet the enemy side by
ation. To them, evidently, it was excellent pas- side with the devoted little band of dragoons.
time. Running under the brush like squirrels, , Hope looked after him, saw, him ride into the
they alone claimed to have seen'the concealed fray, heard scores of pistol-shots, when he was
marksmen, and given them suitable return for lost to view in smoke. Her father, who seemed
their leaden compliments,                   to have been forgotten in the exe:tement of the
" Them boys," said Corporal Keith, "will get moment, instead of joining her, or seeking safe-
shot, yet. They're callers dodgin'around amongg ty-in flight, hurried toward the combatants, to                      -_-_
the 'eeshers when the bullets are flyin'. But dheer on his friends in arms and take part in
it's the natur' of 'em. They fit in the basket, the strife.
when they hung on the door-handle, the cap'n  Sickened by the thought of what might hap-
says, and I believe him ! It would be safer for pen, she paused to see no more. She fled to1---
'em to. take a little clineh 'mong theirselves, the woods, and still pursued by the sounds of
than to be strollin' about loose in that way. the conflict, continued to fly. It appeared to
There! they're firm' ag'in. Some o' the rebels her that she was leaving the dire uncertainty
got it then, I guess ; for if anybody can find 'em, behind, and she favored the delusion., Panting
it's them twins."                          and trembling, she -stopped, finally, in the dark
Then to Hurdlestone-:                .    recesses of the forest. Resting upon the trunk                                                                              -
" Colonel, keep up clost to 'long side here, of a fallen tree, she had time to reflect on the
for you're a slippery 'un to take, keer on. For folly and cowardice of her panie.
your darter's sake, I don't want to harm ye ;  When rest had restored her to something like
but if I see ye makin' a motion to run, I'll be calmness, site resolved to retrace her steps. The
blamed if I don't send a ball arter ye I Bear gloom of the woods, which, at other times, would
that in mind, and there'll be no hard feelin's if have made her uncomfortab e, was now little
you get winged. Mr. Girdwood, have an eye on thought of. She commenced her return, asham-
the gal. These skulkin' fellers don't have much ed of her weakness. But the task proved diffi-
eespect for women."                        cult of achievement. To her inexperienced up-                        _    _      _
" No need to tell him that, e-rporal1!' mutter- prehension, it appeared an eas  matter to pisk

Jp
/i
- --
~g
~a
-
-J
~ ~

S1


SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

i

her way back ; but when she had walked a half-
hour, she was surprised that she had not accom-
plished her purpose. She kept on, till the con.
viction that she had lost her way'stole gradually
upon her.
When she emerged from the woods, it was a
place unknown to her, but a portion of the thea-
tre of the day's events, for it was marked by the
red track of battle. She believed that she was
far from the farm-house, and was surprised at
the long stretch of ground that had been occu-
pied by the hostile armies.
Treading with timid steps, she passed many
mementoes of the fight. She thought she had
not courage to look upon the victims of war ;
but when she saw the motionless sleepers, it
was with more of solemnity than fear. It was
not without feelings of patriotic sublimity that'
she saw the Union dead in their last, quiet slum-
bers. She reflected that they had fallen- in a
good cause, and that the private who had yield-
ed his life for the beloved flag was as much a
hero as the gallant officer who had died, sword
in hand, at the head of his column.
Such sensations and deductions were whole-
some ; they disarmed her foolish, selfish terrors,
and directed her mind to higher moral lessons
and nobler objects.
The pale and eternal orbs of heaven poured
down upon her innocent and undefended head a
pure atmosphere of mild and softened light-a
snowy illumination that also fell upon the white
faces-of the slain. Federal and Confederate lay
side by side. Mothers and wives would ev cep
over both. Liberty and Slavery had its martyrs
there. The God of Battles sat in His majesty
-er all
CHAPTER XXIII.
THE VITANDIERE.
Hope moved on. She knew that she was
astray, but she felt protected and guided. A
low sobbing reached her ears. It did not startle
her much ; she was expecting sounds of grief
and pain ; it was the place and the hour for
them. Looking onward, she beheld a figure
seated beside a heap of slain men. It was a fe-
male form, and the presence of the dead gave.
her a peculiar sanctity in the eyes of Hope, who
approached her without hesitation.
She was a young woman of eighteen or twen-
ty years, with a pretty, childish face, and clad
in the picturesque costume of a French vivan-
diere.
Miss Hurdlestone's light step at once drew her
attention. She arose quickly, and the former
perceived that she held a pistol in one of her
small hands. Seeing that it was one of her own
sex who had disturbed her sad and solitary vigil,
she manifested both surprise and pleasure, and
returned the dangerous little weapon to its
pocket.

I

" You followed the Federal Army ?" said
Hope, affected almost to tears.'
" I wear the red, white, and blue !" answered
the vivandiere, in a melancholy voice.
Hope now observed that her cassock or frock'
was made of those united colors.
" Why do you weep?" Hope asked.
The vivandiere looked at her inquiringly.
" Why do you ask such a question ?" she re-
plied, throwing a mournful glance over the
field. " You, who are a woman, young, and
with a heart in your bosom, should know. Truo
men lie here, unburied, slain by their brethren I
Who can refrain from weeping? It'has been a
dreadful day, miss !"
" Terrible, indeed !" sighed Hope. "I trem
ble at the thought of the dangers to which you
have been exposed, and I shudder at every-
thing around me. My good girl, you should
have kept out of the red circle of battle."
Hope advanced and took the passive hand of
the vivandiere, whose fair face expressed both
sorrow and courage
" Think of the poor soldiers," murmured tho
girl, " fainting with heat and thirst ! Think of
the wounded, too, dying for water ! Is it not a
work of duty, as well as mercy, to place the
drinking-cup to their hot lips ?" The vivan-
diere touched the canteen that hung at her side.
Her cheeks glowed with soft melancholy.
The silvery moonlight, falling on her young
face, seemed like a halo from heaven.
"I have received the ' God bless you !' of
many a brave soldier to-day," she added. . "I
never shall forget what I have seen and heard.
Some of the water-carriers have been shot by
the enemy. That was cruel; for civilized men
do not fire at women. You found me weeping,
because it is a day of disaster. A dearly-bought
victory was strangely lost. Cameron, and many
gallant officers and men, lie dead. I cry with
grief and anger!"
"Tears, my'girl, will not recall them," said
Hope, soothingly.
" You have questioned me ; now let me ques-
tion you," responded the girl, beginning to ex-
amine Hope with more interest. "You, too, are
young," she went on ; "as young as I, for my
half-masculine dress makes me look more youth-
ful than I am. Why, then, are you here ? Are
you loyal ?"
" As yourself, young woman !"
" That gives me joy ! It is pleasant to see a
loyal face in a scene like this: Perhaps -you
have come to look for a brother or lover ?"
" Neither, neither I" answered Hope, quickly.
" My father is a rebel officer. He led the Black
Horse wherever the battle raged."
"Then you may look for his body away yon-
der, for I know well the spot where the Black
Cavalry were cut to pieces. Come, my friend,
I will go with you, if.you wish. I have pity for
all."

T'


SCOTTO, TIIE SCOUT; OR, TIE UNION RANGERS.

The vivandiere pressed Hope's hand affection-
ately.
" I thank you, but there is no need. My fatli-
or lives. Let us leave this sad place. Tell.me
your name."
" Margaret Moore. They call me Maggie. I
followed the Seventy-ninth. But when I found
one moaning for water, I did not ask to what
regiment he belonged, or whether he were friend
or foe. More than one rebel has drank from my
canteen," replied the vivandiere.
" I doubt it not, my friend.' Loyal hearts are
ever merciful. I am sure we understand each
other. Let us be friends. My name is Hope
Hurdlestone."
" The daughter of Colonel Hurdlestone !" ex-
claimed Margaret. "lHe fought bravely. Isaw
him sweeping to and fro, with empty saddles at
his right and left. Those who came out alive
from the last charge upon the three regiments
will have a story to tell."
" Speak not of it! Let us somewhere seek
shelter and safety. I left friendsnot long ago,
but fear that I cannot again find them. You can
do no good here, and remaining may expose you
to new dangers ; for victory makes bad men
brutal."
"It you go toward Manassas, no; if toward
the Potomac, or iii any direction where we shall
be likely to fall in with Union troops, I will go
with you gladly," answered Maggie Moore.
" There is one," said Hope, with heightened
color, " whom I would find, who is no traitor,
but whom I left in great danger. I anymin doubt
whither to direct my footsteps ; but yonder, I
think, should be my way. I have been gently
reared, my slightest wish being anticipated and
obeyed by willing slaves'; and t4 e vicissitudes
of this day have been alike new and strange.
But I ought not to murmur, when so many lose
life itself for that cause which costs me but fa-
tigue and a silly girPs terrors. Your courage
arid devotion justly rebuke me."
" Your words are very sweet, dear young a-
(1y. Maggie Moore fears not toigo with you.
Look at this little instrument."
. The pretty vivandiere held up her pistol. It
was an improved and beautiful pattern, with
seven revolving cylinders.
- " I can use it well, Miss Hurdlestone. I will
not tell you what it has done to-day ; but all
things are lawful in self-defence. Look at this
small copper canister. It is the load. I thrust
it into the empty cylinders in a moment. See
how I do it.  'here ! the pistolis loaded. Now
that holds seven lives, if well aimed. It requires
a steady hand, though. Isn't my hand steady?2
Observe me, Miss Hurdlestone."
While speaking, Margaret Moore loaded the
empty cylinders with the percussion canisters
and to prove the firmness of her nerves, held out
her arm  and leveled   e pistol as deftly and
steadily as a veteran.

" So you need not be afraid, Miss Hope. For
one or two enemies, you see, I am quite prepar-
ed. It's a good thing to know how to defend
one's-self. You'might as well be a rag-baby, or
a log of wood, as not to have the knowledge and
courage to take care of your person. The
meanest thing that crawls has the instinct to
turn on what turns on it. Non-resistance, among
brutes, is foolishness."   1
" Very good and very true, to my simple ap-
prehension," responded hope, surprised at the
philosophy and self-possession of the vivandiere.
Margaret had returned the pistol to its ap-
propriate pocket, and they were mving away,-
mutually pleased with each other, when Hoe
discovered two men approaching, whose lawless
bearing filled her with alarm. They were dress-
ed in the dingy gray of the Confederate Army,
but the original color was nearly lost in dirt and
tatters ; a fact which the fitful moonlight was
sufficient to reveal. Their faces were unshorn,
and blotched with red, and (so far as Hope could
judge, on their nearer approach) bloated with
whisky, and the indices of all that was coarse
and revolting in the human character.
Such were the observations of Hope as the
men' advanced and confronted them. However
wanting in tidiness, they had no lack ot arms-
their leathern belts being literally crowded with
weapons that they had manifestly taken from
the slain and wounded. Each stood in a circle
of steel made up of pistols and lowie-knives,
thrust into their belts promiscuously, as gath-
ered from the field.
The 'discovery of Hope and Margaret gave
them the greatest satisfaction. They leered at
each other with a species of frightful faeetious-
ness that struck terror to the hearts of the trem:t
bling girls.
"I say, Peterson' said one.
The other, for a suitable response, ducked hs
head, put a tawny hand over his mouth. and
kicked out behind him with his right foot. This
pantomime was intended to express something
too good to be believed, and to which words
were inadequate.
" Peterson !" the fellow repeated.
"Go 'long !" said Peterson, now kicking at
his comrade in bear-like playfulness.  " Go
'long, sweetmeats ! -What's this here ? Don't
be afeard, little dears. Don't be an artomt
afeard. We a'n't grizzly b ars, I allt'w."
Peterson doffed an old fatigue-cap, and made
a grotesque bow to Hope and Margaret.
" Hang me, old boy, if these a'nt some o' the,
Federal gals as have come down yer with the
army ! This is what I calls a circumstance. I
sort of fancies this one in the long clothes.
She's a reg'lar good-looker!''
Haskins expressed his admiration by adlvane-
in, a step, and staring and grinning in Hope's
face.
" This one, with the queer rig on, jest shout

60

x
A      k
S
t

shines my eyes," replied Petesos.  Dog ine s  "   liat reginit ?" asked Ialkins, ineredu-
if she isiat the neatest Yankee Oai l've seen fir lously.
a twelvemoth !flow d' ye do, tis?   What     " tie coatntanls the Black-Horse C'a rry,"
ye got i co' little keg ?"       .            " Oh, you're Colonel Ilurd"leston's daughter
- No  g for'ou," s  Mararet, with spirit. That's a good one ! 'Tell another, al ; tell
"l'), no ! Pine h ?" chuckled Peterson. apotlher !It looks likely bit Colmil Hurdle-
" Stanl bacc !)on t come too near !' said stone's daught. r wonl Ihe win  r' round in
Maggin Moore,'warnin:iv.                   ttis style in the ,oai .id a:uong the dead,
- 1 ho are you ?'' asked Hope, summoning all after dark.''
her Frlnn iits. ' To wli dh:' roy do you  (long?2'  IHazkins said this with an in olence that was
Sit' t-pc iks '. r'l lUns'i is. " The Feder  alike miiting and provoking.
al angel is fondi her tongue. I s'pose I most !  Low and dggra1d creature !" exclaimed
answer.  W . li   n ! We a'n't any body in Hope, unable to res rain her indignation. " Full
parties ua-. If we he anybody in partie'lir. we of falsehood and guile yourself, you look for
do't 1ow it; As for the armies, we're S e s , the same qualities in others. We wisi to go
thouli we [nt go into it in the r-g'lar stauo iour way undisturbed. Hinder us not, at your
up-fight, b.t on our own hooks ; and were peril !
alleys imble t be found on the field arter a  She drew Herself uip haughtily. and waved
battle."                                     back the ruffian.
"They come like the carrion-crows,"tinter-   " Dainty ams aare nothing to me," said ias-
posed Mairgaret, "to prey on the dead. They kins, doggedly  " There's no use in trying' the
a-re the miserable hangers-on of the rebel rabble. fine lady her,. By -" (lie swore a frightful
They are of that class who rob dead men's oath), " you saI  I go^ to camp with us ! Como
pockets, and follow war for pillage, and not along !"
from principle."                               " We've done foolin'," put in Peterson, "and
" I knew she's a smart one !" cried Peterson. there's an end on t. Be muovin', gals-be mov-
All grit, she is. Come, pretty miss, let us be a in'!
tuarchin',-as the song says."'1 " Keep near to me !" said Margaret to Hope.
He stretcied out his hand, and pulled the vi- " We ha 1 better die here than follow them.
vandiere by tl)e sleeve. She released herself at There is no crime they are not equal to."  Thtei,
(nee..'                                   to the men : " Will you go ?"
Touch mite not! Back, I tell you! Go your  " Not without com pany !" sneered Peterson,
ways, both of you. If you think I cannot de- advancing to seize the vivandiere.-
feel myself, you are mistaken."  She drew her  Margaret retreated a step, leveled her pistol
pistol. and pointed it, which action was hailed steadily, and fired. Peterson staggered, clipped
wi.h derisive laughter by the two men.      his right hand on his breast, and fell.
-- Ste's got a pistol, Ilaskins. Oh my ! lShe's  While Haskins stood confounded and amazed,
gta pistll  It's about the size of a bodkin. a bullet from  Margaret's little weapon struck
A ad deal o' damage she'll do with it ! Look him between the angle of the forehead and the
bhe m-iss! What do you s'pose a man cares left ear. The maledictions gathering on his
fo); thit tIng who picks his teeth every morning' lips broke into a cry of pain as he went down.
wt Ii in eighteen-inch bowie-knife ? You might  ' There !" exclaimed Margaret.  " That is
sh)t aiday at my hand, and not make holes justice. Let us run!
in tl bg enough for a pepper-box cover !"    Taking Hope by the hand, they hurried from
Don't be too sure of that. I can hit a the spot, and were soon gliding swiftly and si-
smaller mnar'c than your hand !" retorted the lently through the forest.
vivandiere, holding the pistol very steadily.--
"The li rt, e l? I say, Haskins, I like this.        CHAP'ER XXIV.
What a par of 'em, to be sure ! Come ; it's no             BAIRNEY MALONE.
use to mrimce matters. You must go with us ;   The dim solitude was a relief .to Hope. Her
and snivielin' and hangin' back won't do no  hurrying feet left the scene of her late terrors far
manner o' good. Start at the word 'Go l' So behind. The vivandi: re strengthened and en-
do all your screaming' and faintin' as quick ,as couraged her' by cheering words and brave ex-
you please.'                                 ample. Every sound revived her fears, so much
" We shall do 'neither !" answered Margaret, had her nervous system suffered by the sliocis
with singular calmness. Hope looked at ier of the eventful day. In imagination, the vil-
with surprise. The confidence of the vivandiere plains, Peterson and Haskins, were following their
increased her own, and sustained her faltering flight. furious in their baffled purpose.
courage.                                      By-and-by, as a greater felling of security
" You say," she said, assuming all the digni-- gradually stole rpon them, fatigue began to
ty that she could, " that you belong to the Con- affect them-Hope, in an esp cial manner, her
federate Army. My fatheor i a colsnel in that delicate person having never before been sub.
army I"                                     jected to such a severe trial.'-They paused in

SCOTTO, TUE SCOUT ; OR, THI UNIN RANGERS.

C1


62         SCOTTO, THE SCOUT; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

an oak glade, and were glad to sink upon the
grass to rest.  -
Casting their eyes upward through the long
and'thread-like vista formed by the trees, that
stood like sentinels on either side, they beheld
the mystic stars, and the mild moon, staggering
faintly on its ethereal way. To Hope, the gen-
tle orb seemed to shudder at the deeds of men,
and hurried on its course, pale and sorrowing.
She thought of her fattier and her lover.
She wondered how it fared with them, and tried
to feel that they were safe. A distant rustling
of leaves reached her now too-vigilant ears.
Her companion heard the same, but with less
alarm, and attributed it to the playful leaps of
the ever--restless squirrel. The sounds, howev-
er, drew nearer, and became more distimet.
" It's a beast of prey !" said Miss Hurdle-
stone, in a suppressed voice. " I can hear its
long, light bounds."
o  It sounds like the running of a strong and
agile animal, I confess,'' answered Margaret ;
"but it may prove tobe a harmless rabbit, or
some poor opossum on a nocturnal ramble."
'- I fear it may be something of a fiercer sort,"
continued Hope. " It would be so dreadful to
be torn ii pieces by a stealthy catamount or
prowling wolf ."
The animal, whatever it was, whose tread dis-
turbed them, occasionally paused, then advanc-
ed with greater speed. ,lioth the young women
were now thoroughly frightened. The creature
was fearfully near. Its bounds were rapidly de-
vouring the ground. It reached the glade ; it
came down it like an arrow, straight toward
them. The vivandiere drew her little pistol, and
Hope covered her face. A half-dozen quick
bounds, and the fleet-limbed animal was upon
them. Hope expected to feel its hot fangs in
her flesh, instead of whmichl two soft paws were
laid upon her, and the cold nose of the hound
Jule was pressed against; her cheek.
"Oh " exclaimed Margaret, "it's nothing
but a dog ! And it must be yours, for it seems
to know you."
Hope smiled faintly, and showed to Margaret
a very pale face. She returned the joyful ea-
resses of the hound with genuine pleasure.
"Jule! Good Jule ! I'm glad to see you,
Jule !" she said. " Where liave you been ?
Why didn't you stay with me ?''
Jule wagged her tail and frisked about.
" Ai!" added her mistress. "If this crea-
ture could speak, what news it might tell me.!
Perhaps Dagon is seeking me !"
"6Let us follow the dog," suggested Maggie ;
a proposition to which the other willingly as-
sented.
Jule, at first, appeared to have no particular
destination, her course being discouragingly er-
ratie, pausing often to look up at the face of her
mistress and evince her satisfaction. Presently
the hound's discretion became more defined,

and they followed with increasing confidence
'er! actions indicated that she scented some-
thing ; and, after going a few rods further, they
discovered a man sitting at tie root of a tree.
Jule stopped, and eyed the figure with evident
doubt and curiosity, while h1u1je aL Margaret
shared the irs', if not the latter feeling. On
seeing the dog. which was some yards in ad-
vance of the young woman, the m:in arose, with
a sabre in his baud, and put himself ii a defen-
sive- attitud.
'-Is it a dog ye le ?" he inquired. in the very
voice of Barne  Manie. '"Phrliaps it.s a wild
baste ye are ! But you're slim for a dog, be ja-
hers ! Iif ye're a cat. say so ; but f ve're a
catamount, ist take the -right-hand direction,
and I'll give ye t he full of the road."
Jule sat down upon her haunches, looked
blandly at barmelaid answered never a word.
" It's blockadin Iae, ye're afthmr ! Away wid
ye, ye brute ! Secade, ye Jong-nosed warmint !"
Barney made a hostile motion with his sabre.
Just then his eyes fell on the girls.
" Howly mother ! What's comm' now.I won-
dr.r . Hang me, if iver I see the like of it!
Here are two faymale women as true as I'm a
good Catholic! They 'pear to be a thritle afeard
of me. They're stoppn'-lookin', for all the
world, like two partridges hiding' in tihe grass.
Bad cesss to me if I don't spake to 'em . 11ey
imay be secaders ; but divil a bit cares Paddy
Malone -"
Barney paused. scratched his head, then drew a
dirty fragment of a handkerehief from his locket.
" A flag o' truce " quoth Barey.  A flag
o' truce is jist the chase. I'll go according to
the rigulations of belligerents, bedad"!"
Barney clapped the rag oi the point of his
sabre, and raised it over his head.
" Barrin- the color," lie said," it's as good a
flag o' truce. as iver was carried. "i ben, to the
girls: "Advance, ye faymales, and we'll ratify
tr'aty in the lickin' of a cat's er."
" Surrender !" retorted  Margaret. "Lay
down your arms and surrender -"
" The Sixty-ninth never surrenders! It's like
Gin'ral Taylor at Bony Vista !" replied Barney,
waving his flag.
" W here is the Sixty-ninth ?" asked Margaret.
"I'm the Sixty-ninth intirely ! Every divil
of 'en, privates, commissioned and non-comr-
missioned, officers was jist killed where they
stood; so that the Sixty-ninth is myself, and
meself alone. I'm colonel, lieutenant-colonel,
major, cap'n, lieutenant; ordherly-sergeant, "or-
,p'ral, private, and me own quarterimasther.
Bad luck to me, it's the qiartermnasther's de-
partmint that brings me to grafe ; for sorra a
bit of ateables has passed my lips this blissid
day," responded Barney, promptly.'
" Then you are the sole survivor of the Six-
ty-ninth ?" said Maggie, not much shocked by
tiis intelligence.

m

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT;c
"That's jist it! You may set it down as Bi-
ble truth, every word of it. And this was the
fashion of the accident: We wint up to storm a
masked-battery of about two hundred rifle-can-
non, more or less, as the case may be ; and
very one o' them cannon was double-barreled
-a earcumstance I never see before in me life.
Well, as we marched up side by side, in illegant
order, they let fly at us, and down they all wint
but meself. I was shot through various parts
of me body, and afther what 'd happened, as
ye may well belave, I was in trouble in me
mind. I didn't stay only long enough to spike
a few guns, afther which I made a mastherly re-
trate. It's a sad day. O philliloo I Ochone'
Ochone !"
"It's a great lie you're telling, Barney Ma-
lone !" said the vivandiere, advancing, and show-
ing her person more filly.
" Who spakes?   What voice is that I hear?
What forrom is that I see ? It should be Maggie,
of the Seventy-ninth."
In his surprise, Barney dropped his flag of
truce.
"I am the vivandiere who gave you water
to-day, when you were carried to the rear in an
ambulance," answered Margaret.
" Cushla Machree ! It's some kind of a dear
that Iknew you was, little dear or vivandiere.
It's glad I am to see ye ! Come closter, that I
may put my two eyes on .something human.
God bless, ye, and the likes of ye, this day !
Barney Malone is better for seem' ye, and the
other one wid ye ; but I'm hurted bad. and it's
not long I can stan' comfortable on me feet ; so,
with your l'ave, I'll jist clap meself down ag'in
while ye tell mc all about the battlee"
" There's nothing to tell, Barney.  Our
troops are repulsed-that's all," replied Marga-
ret, sighing.
" Ochone ! My heart is heavy for it. We'd
a thrashed 'em, if they hadn't skulked in the
woods, behind breastworks and big guns. Sor-
row and grafe be unto 'em! Bad whisky and
bad. luck to the murtherin' seeaders! May
they slape with their eyes open, and wake with
'em shut! May they never know the blessin's
of p'ace, nor the satisfactions of freedom ! Lis-
ten to me, Maggie Moore. Afther ye give m- the
wather in the sick sliny for the wounded, I re-'
vived wonderful, and was crawlin' out of the
murchine, when-a shell bu'st under it and
whisked me into the air as if I'd been a bundle
o' straw. The Mother of God only knows how
far I wint up, but in me cooler judgmint, should
think about the matter of a thousand feet ! If
I hadn't come down in a soft place, it would
been the wonder of the world if it hadn't killed
rme. Would ye helave it?--the ribels had the
haythenness to fire on me when I's in the air!
But I had me revinge ; for I fell on a big cap'n
and broke his neck. Well, I picked myself up,
quite frrehened by the shock, and was doin' me

OR, THE UNION RANGERS.                    68
best to stop the retrate, when a frightened pow-
der-cart, drawed by six horses running' at the
rate of three minutes a mile, fetched me a wipe
in the siall of me back, knocked me sprawling ,
so that the wheels wint over every part of me
body. But that misfortin was the luckiest
thing that happened to me during the day; for
another shell bu'st, jist then, doin' terrible exe-
ention, and covering' me with a hape of slain.
Philliloo! There I was, naythur able to move
hand nor fut, by r'ason of them atop me. Ah,
Miss Maggie, imagine yourself in me place!"
" It was very dreadful, Barney," observed
Margaret.
" Ye may well say that ! God knows it's no
lie Im tellin'. But I kept me self-possession
wonderful. 'Pull me out,' sez I.
"'Pull who out ?' sez somebody else.
"' Barney Malone, of the Sixty-ninth,' sez I;
And with that, two soldiers got hold of me, and
with much pullin' and haulin', suesayded in
draggin' me out. Come to look at the liape
that was on me, there was about the full of two
wagin-loads, in a reasonable estimate. I had
now notlhin' for arms but me revoolver, havin'
left me musket with two secaders strung on the
sabre-bayonet, like a herrin' on a stick. But I
might been worse off than havin' six charges at
the pullin' of a finger."
" You were fortunate in being so well pro-
vided for," said Margaret, willing  to listet
Barney's adventures.
" As things happened, it was the luckiest
thing in the world," he resumed ; " for I had no'
sooner got on m pins ag'in, than I was in dan-
ger of being knocked off 'em by siven of the
Black Horse Cavalry, who come rampin' upon
me withoaterrible jinglin' of spurs, sabre-
sheaths, and 'contrements. My littledear, or
vivandiere - whichever ye plaze--stick a pin
here while I make a reasonable observation.
You've no conciption, Miss Maggie,,of the noise
and clatter them blackguards made as they gal-
loped at me. 'It's neck or nothin' .' sez I, to
mesclf. 'Kape up your courage,' sez I, to the
same person, and in the same way. ' If ye die,
now, Barney Malone, ye'll never see Bidd
ag'in, nor the little childer, to home.' With
that, I grew very stout in tIme heart and the
knees, and blazed away at the traitors in a way
tha 'd done your eyes good to see, for they
'dropped out of the saddle, one after the other,
like so many bricks set on end and tipped over.
" But the throuble wasn't settled yet. Six
bullets, you know, Miss Maggie, can't very well
do the business for more'n six men; so the sev-
enth was left on my hands, mounted, you must
remimber, all the while, with a sword in his
hand about the length of two yardsticks, and
sharper'n a barber's razor. It was thin that I
thought Biddy'd be a widder and the little
chiller fath-rless  Now. the last mnan that fell
when I fired was about six feet from the muzzle

.I'~


64               SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANGER .
of me pistol, and his horse bounding' forrard doubtitn' me I fear ye are?" answered Barney,
with him, he toppled off at my side. Quick as looking at her inquistively. " It's little I'd be
thought, I ketched the sabre from his stiffettin' after tellin' ye, it I thought ye'd (uistion me
fingers and run as I never run afore, with the voracity. Well, no sooner had I got intel the
fast gallop of a horse close at my heels, sound- woods than I was taclded by Johntston's t'k..
in' mighty oncomfortable to a distressed Sixty- mishers, and if I hadn't ent my 11ay t.rkus
ninth on foot.' I see a tree straight ahead, and 'em, there'd been an end of Barney Maoite.
never a snake left Ireland so fast as I made for Ochone ! Howly mother? how I laid about me
that same tree. By the help of the stints and to the right and left ! If I hadn't ci'aned me-
me legs, I got behind it afore ye could tell two self in the fust ruinin' strame, I shouldn't be
beads on your rosary, and down thundered sa- decent for your two eyes to look at. Another
cesi with murther in his heart and eyes. Thin gintle taste frorp your little barrel, honey, and
there was a race round the trunk of the tree. I'll resarve the rest of me adventures, till a more
A man, you see, can turn shorter than a horse, convanient s'ason."
and there was me advantage. I capered about    Maggie tipped the canteen again, and Bar-
like a clown in a circus. "['would been a sight ney's "gintle taste" proved an exhausting li-
to see us. 'Twas Truth afoot, and Tr'ason a nation.
horseback.
" 0 Biddy ! 0 the childer !.. Oh; philliloo !"          CHAPTER XXV.
Barney Malone picked up his tattered flag of              AND THE LAST.
truce, and wiped large drops of perspiration   Footsteps were heard approaching, and a to-
frotm his brow.                             tent after Luke Scot toappeared, foil wed by
"You were in great danger, Barney," said ~Mureh and Dagon.
Maggie, kindly. "Go on.    But first take a    On the first alarm, Barney sprang up, sabre
drink from my canteen."                      in hand.
"IHould it up, darlint, for me left arm is   " Don't be afeard, girls," he said. "Jibt
hurted bad."                                 stan' back and give me a chance with my weep-
Margaret good-naturedly placed the canteen  on, and I'll make an illegant fight. Cmetaon,
to his lips. He drank long and deep. The ye blackguards-come on !"
fluid must have been low down the wooden       "Put up your sword, Barney Malone !" an-
staves when lie ceased.                      swerved Scotto, advancing. "Tihere's no need
" Cushla machree!" exclaimed Barney, smack- of tackin', hewin', and slewn'- among your
ing his lips. "Alanna machree! Your eyes friends."
shine like stars, ,Honey ! It's a credit to human  " Atrah! Is it you, enp'n, jewel , It dots
nature ye are ! There was more in it than wa- me good to hear your voice. I've been hik-
,ther ; it had the smack of poteen, sweetheart. in' that ye might be pied up wnth the dead
Arraht ! it's me own mnothter's daughtter that I tapes at Bull Run. It's a murithterint' thinlg,
wish ye was. In case o' that,, it's your own this war is !
swate lips I'd be after kissing. "             Scotto addressed a few words to I.ope an-t
" Never mind 'the lips, Barney. 'Let us hear Margaret, then asked :
whetlter you were killed or not ?"             " Where's your regiment, Barney ?"
The fair vivandiere smiled so bewitchingly on  "With the blissid saints in heaven. lere we
Barney, that it was several moments before ie all hope to be, if wve live till we die '.I'm the
recovered his breath and voice.              only one that marched off the field in good or-
"I How faxeinatin' ye makes yourself, Maggie .der, having' fist wrapped the colors of the regi-
Moore! If I was killed, how could I be sp'ak- meat round me bodoy, and speared a few gntners
in' to ye with me own nat'ral tongue ? As I at their guns.
was sayin', I cut round the tree, like the divil  " I know what done it," interpostd Daton.
afore howly water. Every instant, I expiet- "'Twas dem yer iron pots as busts and flits ail
ed to feel cowld steel in me back.   Other- to bits."
wise Saint Patrick ordered it. You see, the    "Is it iron pots ye calls 'em?"  Barney look-
thickness 'of me body was shorter nor the ed from.Dagon to Scotto. "Is it shells the na-
length of his horse, and two legs was more gur manes ?"
manageable nor four ; so, by makin' short turns,  " What odds whether you calls 'em dinner-
I gained on him, and fetched his baste a wipe pots or boomb-shells?  holler-isn't they  A
acrost his hamstrings that brought him to the dinner-pot's holler, too - isn't it ?  Weil, dot
ground of a suddint. Cuttin' ~the murtherin' y r's de argument. No use talking' 'bout dat I
traitor over his eyes with, me sabre, I took to  Easy 'nough to see what de case al."
the woods as fast as me trotters could carry   " Spake not 'of dinner-pots ; they hurt not,
me."                                       . nayther do they bn'.st. Ilt's tnt of tint same
" You were very lucky.    What happened I wih I hnd 0bt'f'tre me now. full of ttod corn-
then ?" aiked the vivadiere.               t beef ant pt''raties. I won bi not he he liinnme'-
" More'n I could t Il ye int a day,'ittiss. Its pot ta.wt Would b t, insi i a eabstbtZt moeself


SCOTTO, TUE SCOUT;, OR, THE UNION RANGERS.

y
4

intirelr. Go away, nagur ! It's the likes of
ye that's made the trouble.   If  ve'd been a
decent Christian color, I shonlin't l'een harried
round a tree by a bloody-minded sacesh ! It's
worrited I've been this day for the rayson of
your black es."'
"Look 'e h, ar !" said Murch. "There's got
to be wars and ii .htin's on the airth. The world
gits rank with blackguardism, and rotten with
pence, arter a time. It wants thinnin' out, it
does. War is a thunder-storm to clear the hu-
man atmosphere. No matter whether it comes
through the nig or the white man, come it must,
sooner or sater. Solet it come! I'm willing' to
fight, I be! I likes it more than 'totherwi'e !
I'm wild-cats in a scrimmage, nod a pooty strong
tea for some kinds o' sickness !"
As Murch' spoke, he emerged from the shad-
ow into the moonlight. Barey eyed him with
great curiosity.
" Ye'd make a strong tea, be jabers, if ye's
staped without washin'! The divil pniglht drink
ye. for all me, for any sickness .that me sins
might bring  to me mnortle body!" r4torted
Barney, whose humor had often involved him
in difficulty.
Zadoc smiled grimly, and the scout, fearful
that the friendly relations of the two might be
interrupted at the beginning of their acquaint-
ance, hastened to say :
" Don't bicker, men ! Remember there's
women here ; ' theerfore -be quiet."
Then to Miss Hurdlestone :
"We've been lookin' for ye, miss, a long
time. There's been a sharp fight out in the
open."
" Well ?" said ,Hope, uneasily. "Go on, my
friend.'
" There's a little I mought say," answered
Scotto, with embarrassment, which he tried to
conceal by glancing at Margaret, and remark-
ing : " You're one o' them vivandere, I see ?"
"Yes," said Margaret, mechanically.
"Captain Scotto," exclaimed Hope, " you do
not speak frankly ! There is something you
fear to tell me."
" Nothing' more than one might expect in these
times. The colonel, your father, was wounded
some'at in the squirmish this evenin'," replied
the scout, avoiding the questioning eyes of Miss
Hu'rdlestone.
" Wounded 1" she repeated, while a sad, sick
sensation swept over her.
"It may be but slightly," said Maggie, sooth-
ingly.
" In battle, all men are mortal," said the
scout.
" Lead me to him at once !" cried Hope, in a
decided voice. " You fear- to tell me that hisr
Wound is mortal. I must hurry to him to heat'
his last wishes, and receive his dying benedie-
tion."   --                              -
"Follow," replied Scotto. "Mr. Murch, lendi

your arm to Barney. Ile is one of the gallant
Sixtv-ninth, and mu't be cared for."
"~One of 'em, eap'n dear? Shure its the
whole of 'emt I am ! Where's the tay for s~uh-
ness ? Give me your shoulder, misthe, ts
ye're sacesh, in which t viat I'll none ,f y',"
quoth Barney Malone.
" You are tired, miss,"said Scotto, kind,, t
Hope. "Lean on an old soldier-a ara, .1
you'll find yourself steadier for 't. Doi,...,:
downcast."
The admonitions of Scotto fell on the caof
one whose mind was tossed to and fro'Wit.,j-
pense. Clinging closely to his arm, ske  p
pace with him, however fast~he wa ed.
They reached, presently, the' gshir w hwc a
dozen of the Rangers had met tri.e their ntos.
ber of the enemy's cavalry. A little groui
marked the spot where her father was l  i y;ngl
a moment she was at his side. Ihis eyes were
closed,- and- lie was breathing quietly.  ihe
grasped his hand, and was startled at its colM-
ness. As she drohiped on her knees beside ujna,
she observed Girdwood, standing opposite, wz ia
melancholyface.
" Father t father !" she exclaimed.
The wounded man opened his eyes. His foil-
ing sight fixed itself on the features of his
daughter. That pale and beautiful countenanee
recalled to his recollection a teeming, touching
history of many years. He did not speak at
first ; thought was too busy with him fir it-
terance.
"Do you not know me, father ?"
"Know you, child ? I know you n w, and
shall know you forever ! I know and love you !
I am leaving you,- Hope."
" Leave inc not ! Oh, leave me not, father "'
sobbed Hope.
" The word' March' comes from One who uimy
not be disobeyed. The Commander-ii-cLih 4u
high orders me to a list:itt' and unknown iost.
I know not how it will fare with me there : but
I trust, dropping the errors of; earth with in
body, I shall find favor nd mercv."
" Abundant favor and abundantinerey !" said
Hope,- fervently.
" What flag is that floating near me ?" h4
asked.
" The old flag, father! The flag that floated
over the head of Washington."
" Take it from his sight," said Girdwood,
softly, to Scotto.
" No; bring it nearer." responded Hurdle.
stone, quickly. " Let me behilid it once m eo.-
Plant the staff beside me.'
. Scotto thrust tlhflag-staff into the earth just
opposite Hope. The Stars and Stripes floated
gently over the dying man, who gazed at the
national hanter with singular intensity.
"Death clears ,my sight !" he murmred',
"Human selfishness and lhn:na, hate are ieeL
ing from view. Our Revtelutionary fathers wru's


68

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT ; OR, THE UNION RANr ERS.

right. This is the flag to die under. I retract I  All present leaned intently forward.
muy heresy. I die loyal ! The time will conic  He stopped.
when my brothers-in-arms will wish to die the  " Tell Beauregard-" he stopped for the 'ast
same. Union is the true shibboleth of safety. time, arnd for the want of life. Colonel Ross
Death is a plain dealer. With it, dark ambi- Hurdlestone was dead
imn, the lust of power, and wild aspiration,      *      *      *      *      *
emil."                                        A silence followed, broken only by the low
He paused a little, then asked           sobs of Hope.
" Where are you, daughter ?"                "Gone !" sighed Scotto. " A brave man LA
"Here, dear father, holding you back, -and gone."  Then to Ralph : " lPemain with lwr,
grieved that you must go-grieved past expres- Girdwood, a half-hour, that she may weep over
-nn," answered Hope, weeping.               him without restraint. Men, withdraw, Grief
" Dear, dear girl ! You have your sainted is sacred.  ifhen the half-hour has passed,
mother's face. I would I could be longer with Luke Scotto will return for the orphan that was
you ; but the Conqueror-is at hand.' Where is confided to him."
Itie young manT? Where is Girdwood ? I am     Hope and Giriwood were left with the dead,
- feeling for him in the dark."             their hands yet clasped over the motionless
" I am'here," replied Ralph, taking the hand  breast. He gently unloosed the captive fingers,
that was groping blindly in the air.        and withdrew to a little distance, where hie re-
Hurdlestone pressed it with dying energy.  inained, till Scotto informed him that the half-
" Let these twe  hands be joined," he added, hour had expired.
with thrilling solemnity.                     " It's time to go," he said  " You and Mar-
Hope's and Girdwood's hands touched an3 garet attend to the poor gal, while I place the
clasped ; they rested across the breastof the colonel's body where it may be easily found by
dying man, while his own cold fingers lay on his friends."
both.                                         When Ralph returnedto Hope, lie found her
" I have done you wrong, young man, but I comparatively calm, but she would not listen to
make you abundant reparation now. I bequeath the p roposition of the scout respecting the bur-
utto you my Hope. When I am dead, bear her iai of her father.
Safely from these scenes. A great and conquer-  "I will not leave him," she said, " till dust is
ing Union Ariny will be gathered on the Poto- consigned to its dust."
ue. Pause not till you are within its tireling  No one had the heart to oppose this reso'"
aes.P"                  .                   tion. A grave was hurriedly  hollowed at the
He stopped.                               foot of a patriarchal oak, ani all that ren dti;'
" Luke Scotto ?" he said, anon.         _ of Hurdlestone was laid tenderly in it, with t e
" Ross Hurdlestone I" answered     scout, Ainericanflagsupon his breast.
with emotion.                                 Dagon breathed a short, simple, vet fervent.
" Are we at peace ?"                      prayer over the body of his niaster, and the
"We're at peace !" responded. Scotto, im- earth was replaced. - But Hope still lingered.
pre-ssively.                                She could not tear herself from the spot, and it
"You have heard my wishes," continilel was not till morning ' as near that -site was pre-
HIurdlestone, with wonderful clearness. " Be a vatted upon to-mount a horse and go- w ith her
father to Hope till Ralph Girdwood-has a right friends.
to take her from you. Give her away, Luke,   Leaving the enemy's country was perilous,
and think of me as I was'in Mexico."        but guided by Scotto, and protected by 8ev. r:i
" Ross Hurdlestone, all this shall be done," of the Independent Rangers, Manassas was let.
answered the scout. " Your child shall be sa- far behind, and before many hours they were
ered in my eyes. I will do what you would do, beyond the fear of pursuit.
were you to li've to carry out your own desires. Barney Malone, mount d upon a black horse
You know Luke Scotto.".                    taken from one 5r the rebel cavalry, accomla-
"I know him well. -Bless my daughter in my nied them-regaling thlein, when the way per-
name when you give her to this man.",      mitted, with unique amounts of his adventures.
Hurdlestone's breath failed him. He gasped  The Twins, who had turned up in good pre-
and seemed going.                           ervation, did not, it was observed, have a broth-
" Where's the flag ?" he asked, presently, erly." clinch" till Arlington Heights appeared
somewhat wildly.                           in view.
" Floating' over you," said Scotto, passing his  Dagon spoke often of the North Star, but de-
hand over his eyes.                        claret a firm determination not to leave .his
" That's. as it should be. God bless you, young mistress. * The' hound, Jule, seemed in
Hope F God bless you, Girdwood I"          excellent spirits, scampering and frisking over
He paused again, and his eyelids quivered the "sacred soil" as irreverently as though it
over the sightless balls. He tried to speak.'. was the commonest eart-h in tie world.
"Tell Beauregard-" he began.               Z: oc 3Nurch left them mys'oriousiy  i.v

SCOTTO, THE SCOUT.; OR, THE UNION RANGERS.f69
way. -Girdwood was confident that he caught a ment, Girdwood has accepted its coloneley
impse- of him, the following day, near the that honor having been stoutly declined by its
white House at Washington, but could not ab- former leader, who is much absent, and is often
solutely identify him. Again, after the new ar- seen in close conference with the commander-
my began'to pour in by thousands, and pitch in-chief. It is well understood that the War
their white tents on the opposite bank, late one Department is indebted to him for information
evening he saw a burly figure crossing the Po- of the utmost importance. When lie is observ-
tomae in a boat that strongly reminded him of ed to throw his long rifle across his arm, and go
the sturdy proportions of Zadoc Murch.    quietly from cam p,the Union soldiers say to
Margaret, -the vivandiere, remained with each other-o
Ilope, in whom she found a loved and valued  " We shall have news from beyond the ene-
frienid                                  my's packets to-night "
Luke Scotto, the scout, with his Rangers, is  Miss Hurdlestone has received much attention
vet doihg efficient duty in Virginia, while the from the loyal ladies at Washington; and when
)3asketeers give great promise of becoming good a suitable time has elapsedvill make Ralph
soldiers ; although Corporal Keith is occasion- Girdwood the happiest man in the world.R h
illy w. rried by their " pitching-in" propensities.       [THWD].
The Rangers having been recruited to a reg-
-
" -


PUTHEOWLET;s
THE ROYAL HIGHWAYMAN.
CHAPTER I.                  were ready to make a new day wit their
TIjE OHAMPION'S GLOVE.           hundreds of wax-lights, so soosi ns the hrie'f
On the 22d of September, in the year 1761, sunlight of the autumn season should pars
King George the Third of- England, -then away ; diamonds flashed like little su ,s in
twenty-four years of age, and who, the year all directions ; the rich costumes of t h. 'h-
previous, had succeeded  his grandfather, cers of state ; the quaint old dress-
George the Second, was solemnly crowned- in cials occupying positions long a ne ,-I.Lk:
Westminster Abbey, and banqueted in West- and forgotten, except to the excheq r, he
asinster Hall.                           throngs of military officers ; the wn', . of
The new monarch was popular.           feathers ; the entanglements of' spunr in
The old one had been detested ; and new  hoops-ladies then affected the crinol ii. as
hopes and aspirations had arisen in the now ; the rustling-positivelythe droslim..---
breasts of all who came into contact with the of gold lace and embroidery ; $he elan'and
court, or were in any way connected with clangor of sword-hilts and sheaths; the sub-
those who did, on this, the advent of a new dued hum o conversation from so many ftir
reign.                                   and noble lips ; the light laugh ; the ban-
Besides, youth is always popular. The quet, which presented a blaze of golk and
spring-time of the feelings is a pleasant-l ok- jeweled cups ; all combined to pj'dnee one
lag season ; and it was hoped, thought, and of these in-door pageants -half-barbarous,
believed that a new reign of a more English half-magnificent--which no other country. as
character was commencing; and that the that period, could exhibit but old England.
delicate tree !f parliamentary freedom' and  It was a dim and lustreless 'day.
national tolerance, which had . but faintly  At- a little past twelve' o'clock, the sun,
struck root in British soil, would now grow  which had shed but.a weak and watery ra-
and flourish apace.                      diance upon the ceremonial, finally retired
That was one of the full-hearted, weak- behind one of those masses of slaty-colored
minded mistakes of the British public, which clouds which Englishmen have such abund-
is ever so readytto fling up its cap and shout ant opportunities of contemplating,
"Huzza I" if royalty icondeseends even to.  But the royal banquet went forward right
look human for a moment.,                merrily, and the programme of the day's pro.
And so, on this 22d day of September, seedings, part by part, was carried out.
1761, the young king was solemnly crowned  The king had recently married Charlotte,
in Westminster Abbey, and banqueted in daughter of the Duke of Mecklenburg ; and
the old hall at Westminster, which had cov- this "plain young woman," as Monsieur Cle.-
ered with its net-work of dingy rafters so voille described her, when writing to his
many memorable events, in which the great, court, sat at the right hand of the young
the little--the noble, the base-the mighty of king, and "looked stupid andweary."
heart and soul, and the most groveling and The great officers of state said their say.
vcious-had borne a part, and "strutted' There was abundance of lip-service, and
their hour upion the stage."             courtly smiles, and backing out from the roy-
The hall was a blaze of decoration. Ban- al 1 reence ;.and chamberlains grew red in
aers fluttered their silken folds in the air, the face with their exertions, and gold sticks,
heavy with perfumes ; gorgeous candelabra in waiting,, and silver sticks, solemn-look.:

THE- OWLET ; OR, TIE ROYAL HIGHWAYMAN.
lg clerk marshal, Rouge, and Croix, and gold ; and a scarf of 1 ue and silver tissue
Clarencieux, and all the trickery of courtly crossed his corsele t having heavy bullion
inanity and corruption, fretted, and fumed, tassels dependent from it.
and were zealous, and affected great courtesy  The horse was in half armor. A  rich
to each ocher, while malice and bitterness saddle-cloth of crimson velti trailed upon
were in their hearts; and the banquet, like a the floor, and the ortes of ingland were em--
stage pageant, was performed.            hroidered, in pearls and goid. upon it.
But what'means that fanfaronade of trump-  A a eel spike propijei d from  the head
ets-that brazen blast that awakens the ccli- panoply of u e horse ; and, as the noble ani-
oes of the old hall-and, as if it had been, a mal stepped up the old hall, there was, a
call to battle, lights up many an eye there fretiunces of manner about its head, and a
present with a dormant chivalry ?        wild I--oh about its eves, which showed that
Again the silver trumpets of the lpur-uiv- it was ratherscared'1y the flash of jewels and
ts rang loudly and cheerily. What a clang- the glare of mazy colors.
ar of martial notes! !How the air shners and  The champion was preceded by a couple of
vibrates to the ringing sounds.          heralds, in their gorgeous and stiff tabards.
And now there is a commotion at the en- They carried each a silver trumpet.
trance to the old hall. The crowd in the pal-  Clarencieux-king-at-arms, -g he was call-
see-yard rend the air with loud huzzas. A  ed-followed them, carrying a scroll in his
dense thrqng of court minions and relations hand.
of official crowds the lower end of the old  Then came the knights' Lanner.
hall.                            '         Then the champion.
Another shout from the mob without. An-  Two pages followed. One lore his shield,
other ringing peal of silvery music from the the other his lance.:
heralds' trumpets, which might awaken an-  And soup the centre of that stately hall--
cient chivalry from its grave, and -     tramp, tramp, with its iron-shod feet upon
" Whirling like a blazing flame,  the sounding flag-stones,' strode the horse,
its heavy falchion,"            tossing its head, and snorting with surprise at
defy a world in arms.                    all it saw around it.
Then all is still, except the lingering ech-  The court ladies waved their handkerchiefs.
oes of-the wild and martial clangor in the re- The courtiers clapped theirjands.
mote corners of the hall, and the rustling  The king smiled.
flutter of the silken banners that, like a for-  " There-you see-ehi? Charlotte, Char-
est of various blossoms, float overhead.  lotte - you see - Champion. ' Kill all the
"Gott gracious 1" said the queen, " vat world-elh? -Gold cup as a perquisite, though
dat'                                     --eh ? Don't like that-- eh ? Blanchard !
"Eh !" replied George the Third. " Eh! What, gone ! Colonel Blanchard-"
What - what that?   Oh ! Champion-Dy-.     "Your majesty is respectfully and hunibly
mocke-.eh ? The glove, you knew. Sir Hen- informed," said a gold-stick, in waiting, " that
ry Dymocke-champion."                    Colonel Blanchard, of your Majesty's Guardei
There was heard now the tramp of the 'is not here."
fon-shod feet of a horse on the stone flags at  "Not here, eh?  Was here - was here,
the entrance of the hall.               though, this minute.  Officer on duty---on
A loud cheer burst from the mob without. guard, eh ? Sure he was here."
" That's it," said the king. "Champion-  " Your majesty is right."
Dymocke. , Has the gold cup, though. Per- .-"Right--right! To be sure."
quisiter-don't like perquisites. Don't hap-  The gold-stick bowed so low, that nothing
pen often, eh ?"                       . could be seen of him but the middle of his .
"Gott gracious9!"said the queen.      back; and then the twp heralds, who pre-
Another much more genteel and courtly ceded the champion, paused and'placed their
shout now arose from within the hall ; and a trumpets to their lips.
lane was made for Sir Henry Dymocke, the   One full-toned, ringing blast from the sil-
hereditary champion of England, to advance ver throats of the trumpets put an end to
to the upper end of the banquet-room, where all whispered conversation in the, hall; 'And
he was to defy to mortal combat all and ev- hardly had the clanging sounds- died sway,
ery one of the grade of knighthood, who, by when Clarencieux, king-atarms, advanced 'a
irord, act, or deed, should -dare to question step, and from the scroll he bore, read a chal-
the right of King George the Thirid to the lenge.
crown of England.    .:- A challenge to all knights, of all degree,.
The hereditary champion was encased in to come forward there and then, and dispute
lieel armor from head to heel. A plume of the title 6f the recently-crowned, king, or for-
tree white feathers, tipped with azure, float- ever hold their peace.
Fi above his helmet.  His spurs were of   And then the two herjlds turned to rno

a

z
f!
'

. f


THE OWLET; OR, THE ROYAL HIGHWAYMAN.                           6
aide of the hall, a  ,cw a loud e',a  g3c 1o.fall to rise:no more-for Newgate was never
on their trumpet   i  to theoth eride, a the tyrant's dungeon, in which politicalcreeds
second challci4  4nd then toward   door, were converted :into social offences --burnt
a third,     ,_               -          once as it was by a fanatic crowd, who only
And Si,     y'  m a   k    off the glove sought flames as part and parcel of the wild
the      peanl bound gauntlet -     saturnalia they enjoyed ; and yet. now calm,
from h   hg hand, and fung it down on the cold, and terrible' in its compact integrity,
stone ,,,, uent of the hall.             with its little eyes of windows thickly stan-
A44'   rumpets gave one last, loud blar- chioned, and its deeply-indented door-ways
ini'ti-of defiance.                     far away in the massive walls.
ero, Charlotte," said the king; "you    And over the gateway, there hang seulp-
he-eh ?-the glove. If anybody had any- turgd fetters-albeit, now, such iron janitors
thing to say -or wanted to fight - ch ? -  are but little used, if at all. And here and
against us, you know.  Why, they would there-between huge blocks of stones, of fab-
have to come and pick up the glove-eh ? ulous thickness-may be seen narrow steps,
What? what ? what ?"                     through which, by many and sinuous way,
" Gott gracious !" said the queen.     the outs r air-some of the outer light-thin
A young girl dashed out from araid the and faint, like the last flicker of a winter's
throng of spectators in the hall. She reach- day-and some echoes of the hoarse mur-
ed the glove in a moment ; and lifting it from  murs ot' the every-day life without - may
the floor, she held it above her head, and in reach a cell.
a clear, highvoice, she cried:   .    ."  A cell, in which some weary prisoner is
"Long 'liire.Harold the Second !"     .sighing life away.
Another'moment, and before a cry could   A cell, to the chill, iron bars of which, p-
hesuttered-before an arm coul' be raised to chance, some solitary wretch clings, aild
stop her-she bid turned and plunged among ,rists with his tears.
the crowd again, - conveying with her the  A cell, which is a tomb. The tomb of all
champion's gage of battle-the iron-ela nped hope,-of all joy,. all passion, and in which the
glove of Sir Henry Dymocke.              very .intellect slowly exhales, until the in-
nate smiles vacantly, and builds armories
CHAPTER IT                  with the straw that has formed his couch.
THE ROUTE TO TYBUlm.             Then the soul has achieved its freedom, and
The-autumn wind blew keenly and fiercely the walls of old Newgate have fallen down
around the massive stone walls of Newgate, before the first smile of fatuity, while the tears
on the Monday morning that succeeded the of despair have seemed but to thicken and
coronation, of which we have given our read- harden them.
era but a faint glimpse.                   Oh! what a world of sighs have issued forth
From the palace to the prison is a step in through those prison -ohinals t What tears
the march of events which has been com- have in vain tried to soften the cold iron ofathe
mon enough to lose almost,-the flavor .of a barred -grating! $Willthe dedurate water-drop
novelty; .and we may well lhave 'for a time dill a hole tbrough'adsimant? So it is said.
the gorgeous old hall at Westminster, and the Alas!. tio tears he -yet sufficed to melt-the
solemn abbey, with its thousand 'lorioni and granite iralls of liewgate.
mystic reminiseenes of tha past, to gaze   And what frantic cries - cries that the al-
awhile upon that dreary pile in did London, most bursting haarteduld 'not su ppress-eries
which, with its granite aspect,,seems to frown that it 'tust- perforce' give utterance to, or
upon the tide of humanity which, -during the burst in the vain struggle to imprison them,
busy hours of the day, floats-past it.  . - . have, with a dull and faint sound, only made
Standing boldly onthe brow of the eastern their way to the world without.
swell of ground, which, in that direction,  Those cries' were like some poor prisoner
bounds the valley of the Fleet; Newvgate, who seeks escape, and in the process is dashed
square, eonpact and defiant-cold, 'rigid,- to-and-fro, until at length, when, perchance,
hard, and denase-eems as if it. would -stem  he -falls into'the outer -world, he has lost the
the full ocean of London life that toils up the semblance dfihumanity from many concus-
hill ; and, passing the old Church of St. Sep-" sions and many hurts. They lose their scream-
ulehre's, seeks the marts of commerce and ing vehemehee ahd Thou' supplicating pathos
enterprise that lie yet another half mile be- by alternate blows against those cruel stones,
yond.                                    ere they issue forth into the great city, and
And who that passes that. gloomy prison- the cry which iln the cell-which at the inner
house fails to accord to it the attention of mouth of some one of those sinuous slits
an upward glance-so rich it is in recollec- would have harrowed up the soul, issues forth
tions of the past-stormed once as it was, an inarticulate murmur, which is lost in the
like the old Bastile of Paris ; but not like it, rout of sounds that belong to the outer world.


    
             
         
       
   
