
    ----CITATION----
        Randolph, Paschal Beverly, (1825-1874). Dealings With the Dead .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7536
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Dealings with the dead 
            
               DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD;

'
1i,
'1i

ITS MIGRATIONS AND ITS TRANSMIGRATIONS.
mtbb (i ta crr     w

" I have stolen the golden keys of the Egyptians ; I will Indulge my sacred
fury."-EmER
"What is here written Is truth, therefore it cannot die."-Pos.
" I have found it ! This night have I read the Mystic Scroll. The GCPA" Scmwr
or Tas Aeu stands revealed. It is .mineI Alone I delved for It, alone have found
it I Now let the world laugh I I am immortal I'--P. B. RADLoi'.

UIQA, N. Y.:
PUBLISHED BY M. J. RANDOLPH.
1861--'62.

TIE IWMAN SOUL,

~1
I
'illt

n
rJ;                 r 

4
ill
aS


HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY
SHELDON FUND
JULY 10. 1940
-                          y
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1861,
By ALEXANDER BR4DY,
In the lek's office of the District Court of the United States for the District of
Massac usetls.

k
If
t
i
N
1
r       i
S
.r
Y
F,_

.1

DEDIOATION:
TO MY FAi OFF AND BEST BELOVED FBIENO, BY WHOSE ROYAfa BOUNTY
I AM ENABLED TO BRING THIS BOOK BEFORE TUE wOLDO AND TO ALL WHO
FEEL AND LIKEW8E THInE ; AND TO ALL WHO HAVE SUEBED ON THETR
WAY THROUGH THIS WORLD AS I HAVE, THIS VOLUME 78 DEDICATED BY
THE SON OF FLORA.
J  ti  --V
,-t

1
f

.1
,
,r
-  I
t
I
i
r
,
-'w
, .
j ; Y4

.  f

II


PREFACE.
Some meu are daily dying; some die ere they hrave
learned how to live; and some find their truest accom4n
in revealing the mysteries of both life and death,--even
while they themselves perish in the act of revelation,
as is most wonderfully done in the remarkable volume
nowbefore the reader,-as, alas ! almost seems to be
the case with the penman of what herein follows.
The criterion of the value of a man or woman is the
kind and amount Qf good they do or have. done. The
standard whereby to judge a thinker, consists in the
mental treasures which during life they heap up for the
useand benefit of the age that is, and those which are
to be, when the fitful fever of their own sorrowful lives
shall be ended, and they have passed away to begin in
stern reality their dealings with the dead. He or she
who adds 'even one new thought to the age becomes
that age's great benefactor, to whom in future times
grateful men shall erect monuments and statues. Well,
here follows the work of a. man, for his hand penned


4          DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD,

every line, and the ideas were born of. his soul, not-
withstanding his own disclaimer, for not every one can
understand the mystical Blending by means of which he
claims to have reached the ultima thule of human know-
ledge, and most readers, while reveling in the delights
whereof so rich a store is laid before them, will insist
that these glories were begotten of his own soul. Be that
as it may, however, here is one, who, measured by the
standard of the world itself, merits a monument stronger
than iron, more endurable than granite, the gratitude of
every soul that sighs for immortality ; for not a single
new thought, but whole platoons of them, grand and mag-
i fCent, hath he here presented, a deathless legacy to
the world; and bye-and-bye these thoughts of 'Cynthia,'
these 'Dealings with the Dead,' will become  beacon
on the highway of Thought, and be remembere to the
everlasting glory of the sufferer who penned them.
best, Paschal, rest, my brother; thou brother and lover
of thy race, for, thy work is well done ; thy thoughts
can never die. The bad will hate, but all who love
Truth, Goodness, and Beauty,will bless thee, and crown-
thy napie with fadeless laurels.  -   G. D. S.

INTRODUCTION..
DEAR READER, your humble servant here presents
you with a somewhat curious, nove" yet suggestive; and
thought-provoking work. So farasmere language is
concerned, it might have been sent forth upon its travels
up and down the world, clad in better raiment; but as
I had nothing better than linsey-woolsey whereofit
fashion its apparel, why, it must e'en take its"chance in
that.
A man's coat amounts to but little atthe best, come
pared to the man inside it,--and so of books. It is not
always your gilt-edged annual that either carries the.
most precious freight, or does the most good in the
world ; hence so far as the verbal clothing of mypre-
cious babe, this child of my soul is concerned, so' far
as relates to the terms wherein that here offered is
couched, nothing need be.said apologetically. If the
dress suits, well and good ; if not, it is even well ;--.the
'writer has done the very best that could be done, no
one can do more. In making the assertions, the weird
and strange revealments contained within the lids of
this book, no one can be better aware of the risk en-
countered of being laughed at by the wise people of
this wise age, than I am. Doubtless there are those
who will cavil, deride, sneer at and condemn the author
and the work,: but what of that? My truths, if truths
indeed they be, and to me, they are intensly such, will
live. Why? -Because they were chipped off the Rock
of Truth itself, and therefore will unquestionably sur-


6           DEALINGS WITH THE   EAD.
vive many a laugh, as have other ruths ere now. They
and their discoverer can well afford being laughed at.
The author feels that when the great Reaper, Death,
shall have done his work, these same truth-seeds will
spring up into Form, Life, and Beauty :-all for the
gladdening o' the people :-and this feeling, this inner
prophecy of and to the soul, contents and satisfies the
being. Friendly reader, when this body shall have
gone back to the dust whence it sprung in the hopeful
years gone by ; when this soul shall be nestling in the
bosom of its Saviour and his God, people who then
shall read these pages will find, if not before, more in
'at which the heart-weary one has here written, than
either IApsychological romance, gr the daring specula-
tions   undisciplined genius.
The foregoing observations have reference more es-
pecially to the first part of this work, which is pre-
sented in the form of Revelations from the Dead. It
does not owe its origin to what is ordinarily known
as "I Spiritualism" :=-it did not, come either by the
" Raps,' "Tips," " Table-turning," "Speaking medium-
ship," " Writing," or in any other of the modes so
commonly claimed for the mass of " Spiritual" litera-
ture, now so widely circulated and read. The pro
cess by Which what follows came, is to me as weirdly
strange and novel, as anything can well be, I call this
process THE BLENDING.
The people called " Mediums," a singular order among
ment set forth that their bodies are, for the time being,
vacated by their souls, and that during the vacation, the
soul of some one else, one who has died, and yet lives,
takes possession of the physical structure, and then pro-
ceeds to give forth his or her wisdom or folly for the
enlightenment or darkening of men's minds. Another
class tell us that they are "impressed" by a departed
one to give voice to the Spirit's thought ; others declare
that they are "obsessed." Well, it may all be so, or it-
may not. I do not assume or presume to decide one way

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.            7
or the other ::all that need be said on this point is, that
this book does not owe its origin to either or any of
these methods.
Machiavelli,' the great Italian 'diplomat, issaid to
have gained a thorough and complete knowledgewend
insight of the state, frame of mind, and intentionsof
other men, through a wonderful power which he, above
most,.if not all men, possessed, of 'completely ideitify.
ing himself by an intense desire and volition, with those
with whom he came in contact. To such an extent and
degree did he possess this power, that itwas an easy
task to circumvent and overreach most, if nqt all his
diplomatic opponents. He placed himself by1 mental
effort, and physical as well, in the exact position occu-
pied for the time being by his antagonists, or the person
he designed to.read.
No matter what the mood indicated by the physical
appearance, or the outward manifestation of what was
going on within, away down in the deeps of being, was
he immediately moulded his features by the model thus
furnished. " I am now in his place," said he, mentally,
"and will see how to act, think and feel from his posi-
tion ; and, for the time being, I sink my own personality
Smy opinions, views,--in short all- my self-hood, preju-
dices, likes, dislikes, and all else beside ;-in a word,;
transmute Machiavelli into the other man :.-which
being effected,, I shall be, to all intents and purposes,
that other man for the time being, and of course will
feel as he feels, see ashe sees, know as he knows, and be
impelled to action by the identical motives whereby he
is prompted.
All the world knows that Machiavelli succeeded to
a wonderful extent.; and by this power oftassumption,
this easy, yet mysterious blending, he. often, int fact,
nearly always, baffled hisfoes, and the foes of the State,
so that now a successful diplomatist is said to be pur-
suing the Machiavellian 'policy.
Alnmost'any person can make successful' experiments


8          DtEALG WXTH I'Eh DEAD.

in this--Science, shall Icall it ?-and will be surprised
at the results. A man or woman appears before you
with features bearing the impress of a certain kind of
thought-and you can find out what kind by placing
own features, so far as possible, in the same
ape; keep them thus for several minutes, and you
will become 'absorbed in the same that absorbs the
individual before you, and in a short time will become
an adept in the art of Soul-reading.
Many men, and a still greater number of women, who
possessed the power alluded to, have existed in all
times past; but, above all others, the age we live in
has been .prolific of such--so that now it is not at all
difficult to find those who will enter at will, almost, the
very abysses, labyrinths, and most secret recesses of
your being. Indeed, persons abound in.nearly all the
great cities of the world who attain high honor and re
nown-to say nothing 'of the benefits of competence,
and even wealth-by the exercise of this marvellous
faculty.
There are many wise ones who admit the existence
of this power, yet deny its attainability by the many, and
who stoutly maintain that it is a special gift of the
Creator to a favored few. Against such a verdict the
writer begs leave most respectfully to protest; 'and
these are the grounds upon which that protest is based:
All human powers and faculties are latent, until time,
circumstance, and discipline bring them  out. All
human beings are. created alike in so far forth as the
germinal powers are concerned. .All men naturally
love sweet sounds, and, if this taste be cultivated at 'an
early day, are capable of musical appreciation, if not
of vocal or -instrumental execution. The seeds of all
unfolding lie perdu, or latent, in every human being;
they are the property of Soul ; in Soul-soil they are
imbedded, and from that soil they must eventually put
forth 'the shoot, the shrub'the tree, the blanch,' leaf,
blossom, and finally the fruit. Every faculty, strictly

human, belongs to, and is a part of, every member of
the species ; and that--this fact being admitted, though
any given one or ricre may be manifested most power-
fully by some, and not at all by others-all of them are
one day to be developed, -called out, unfolded, in all,
is a plain inference; nay,:an absolute certainty. The
power to see withouteyes, demonstrated by scores and
hundreds of clairvoyants, is not a gift peculiar to a cer-
tain man or woman, or to :a certain order of people.' It
is a power that can 'be had for the trying, :as-any good
mesmerist will affirm and prove.
It seems to me that the expression of the. Crucified,
" I and my Father are one," contains a direct affirma.
tion of the possibility of this blending. 'God was to
Jesus the very essence of goodness ; Jesus strove to be
also most thoroughly.good, and succeeded in reaching
that point where Himself was in perfect -blending with
the entire universe of: Goodness, and therefore with
the Fount of all Excellence.
Perfect blending is perfect love ; and whether that
love be toward the person, the outer self, the body.; o
toward the soul, or the mental treasures, or the secret
self of another, the results are in degree, if not in kind,
the same.
Mental telegraphy will be a perfect success, when-
ever two persons can be found in whom the power of
entering the region of Sympathia shall normally exist.
A few can transmit thought to, and receive thought
back from, others, even now ; but presently scores of
people will develop the ability.
Now, this blending is.not a mere magnetic union of
physical spheres, - but 'is :a Soul-process nearly alto.
gather.
Love, in its essence, is :a thing of the Spiritual part
of us, though, alas I:it is often-put to' use uses.
There was once, not many years. ago, a woman to
whom I felt such a love as that subsisting between
affectionate sisters ; for' it was deeper, purer, calmer

DEALINGS : WITH THE :DEAD.    9


10         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

than that which binds brothers together. In life, her
soul drew near, almost fearfully near, to  ine ; she
thought my thoughts, read my spirit, sympatized with
me in all my joys, my sorrows, and my  iarations.
Often have we sat beside each other-that poor sick
girl and I; and though no word broke the stillness of
the sacred hour, yet not a region of our souls was there
but was explored by the other ; not a silent thought that
was not mutually understood and replied to. Presently
she died-the forms were forever separated, yet not for
a day were the mystic soul-links which bound s to-
gether severed.' No sister, was ever more dearly loved
than I loved her ; and that love was fully and as
purely returned. Everybody called her " Sister "-
everybody felt that to them she was truly such.
Well, she died ; and after a year or two had passed,
I began to understand that at times her soul was near
me, and many and oft were the periods in which I did
not seem to be myself, but had an invincible conviction
that I was Cynthia for the time being, instead of who
and what I am. By-and-by there came a consciousness
of this blending, so deep, so clearly defined, so calm,
that at last I began to appreciate a mighty, almost
resistless Will and Purpose behind it all; for I was my-
self and Cynthia-never simultaneously, as is asserted
to be the case with many of the people called "Me-
diums "-but in separate instants-now her, then my-
self ; at first very imperfectly, but gradually approach-
ing an absolute and complete mergement of Soul.
This continued for nearly two years, at intervals, and
after about eighteen months had passed, one portion of
the process seemed to have reached completeness-for
in a degree it changed, and instead of momentary, as
'before, the transmutations became lQnger, until at last,
as now, the chgges last sixty, and in one instance has
reached two hundred and fortydive minutes.
It may here be asked : " Where are you in the in-

terim ?" and the answer is: "We are two in one, yet
the stronger rules the hour."
It will be seen, therefore, that this condition is as
widely separated from those incident to - the " Medi-
ums," as theirs is supposed to be different from the
ordinary wakeful mood. They reach their state by a
sort of retrocession from themselves ; they fall, or claim
to fall, into a peculiar kind of slumber, their own facul-
ties going, as it were, to sleep. On the contrary, mine
is the direct opposite of this, for, instead of a sleep of
any sort, there comes an intense u'akefulness. Nor is
this all in which we differ; as are the processes and
states apart, so also are the results different.
The revelations of Spiritual existences, moods, modes,
and conditions of being, as given .by .nearly every
"Spiritual Medium" of whom I have ever heard or
read, are, to say the least, totally unsatisfactory to the
great majority of those who seek for information on the
vital question of Immortality--how, and why, and to
what great end we are thns gifted and endowed?
Another, and equally important one, is that concen-
ing the Soul-world, and the inhabitants thereof-how
they live, where they live, and to what end and u$6?
I believe that light is, in this volume, thrown on all
these great and vital points ; such light, indeed, as will
be hailed and appreciated by all who read and'think,
as well AP by those'who read and feel-two widely
different classes, but to both of whom these pages are
humbly, yet hopefully addressed.
The process, strange, wierd, and altogether unusual,
to which allusion has been made, went on for a long
time ; and by slow degrees I felt that my own person-
ality was not lost to -me, but completely swallowed up,
so to speak, in that of a far more potent mentality. A
subtletyr of thought, perception and understanding be-
came mine at times, altogether greats than I had ever
known before; and occasionally, ding these strange
blendiugs of my being with another, I felt that other's

DEALINGS WITH THE . DEAD.    11


0

12

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD-

feelings, thought that other's thoughts, read that other's
past, aspired with that other's aspirations, and talked,
spoke, and reasoned with and under that other's inspi-
ration. For a time I attributed these exaltations of
Soul to myself alone, and supposed that I was not at all
indebted to foreign aid for many of the thoughts to
which, at such moments, I frequently gave utterance;
but much study of the matter has at length convinced
me, not only that the inhabitants of the Soul-worlds
have much to do in moulding the great world's future,
but that occasionally they so manage things that their
thoughts are often spoken, and their behests, ends, and
purposes fulfilled by us mortals, when we imagine that
we alone are entitled.to the sole credit of much that we
say, tliink, and do, when the fact is, we doubtless are
oftentimes merely the proxies of others, and act our
allotted role in a drama whose origin is entirely super-
natural, and the whole direction of which is conducted
'by-personages beyond the veil.*
Well, one day, it so happened that I repaired to a
beautiful village in one of the New England States, on
a visit to some very kind and well-beloved friends-the
brother and the sister of the rare maiden whose won-
drous thoughts abound in the volume now before the
reader ; and while there, the conversation'ran on topics
wide apart from either Mesmerism or its great cognate,
"Spiritualism." During the time that had elpsed since
my last visit to the beautiful village, some two years,
Death had been busily gathering his harvests in all the
regions round about ; or had he kept aloof from the
house on the hill. No I cruel Death had been over its
threshold, and Azrael had carried two precious souls,
over the Dark River. These were Cynthia and her
mother.
After partalgg of a sorrow-seasoned meal, mourn-
That many of them are inhabitants of other spheres, beings who
never lived on this earth, I am firmly convinced. My reasons will be
given in the sequel to this present volume.  -

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

13

fully, and with aching heart and tearful eye, we, the
left-behind and myself, took our way toward the ground
where lay the sacred form of her we loved so deeply,
so fully ; and there I wept, and the great salt tears
bedewed the sod-for, indeed, my heart, poor, weary,
troubled heart, was almost breaking. Soon we re-
turned to the house upon the hill, and I lay me down
upon the sofa, near the window-the very sofa whereon
her sainted form was wont to recline in the days
now, alas! 'fled, with her, forever and forevermore-
that same little sofa whereon she used to sit and
converse with us, with her sister Clarinda, the gentle
and the good John Hart, and her well-beloved Jona-
than, with my humble self, and a few select and sober-
minded lovers of the good and true ; used to sit and
converse upon the mysteries of the Great Beyond, and
touching the realities of that other world, to which
Disease was remorselessly, and with relentless purpose,
fast urging her life-car. * * * And I threw myself
upon the sofa ; and as I lay there, with closed eyes, I
beheld the flitting ghosts of many a dead days with all
its troops of glad and bitter memories, when suddenly
it seemed that I was no longer myself-for so deep and
perfect was the blending, that I had not merely an in-
surmountable assurance that my body contained, for the
time being, two complete souls, but even the very
thoughts, modes of expression, and memory of the de-
parted one was mine ; and yet this possession did not,
fobr an instant, subvert my own' individuality. I was
there, and so- was she.' For the time - being, we two
were not merely as, but to all intents and purposes, we
actually were, one.
Arising from the recumbent position,. my body as-
sumed certain singularities of movement peculiar to
her before she flew up to her home i the bright em-
pyrean, and these words were spoken: "The experi
ences and history of a Soul must be written, for the
benefit of the people. I, we, intend to write it. A


14          DEALINGSc1 WITSt THE DEAD.

book shall be produced, containing the facts of a living,
dying, dead and transfigured human being-containing
the reasons why men live after death, and the methods
of their after life and being. This book shall contain
an account of the experience of two human beings-the
one, while temporarily disenthralled; the other, *hen
permanently so-shall contain the experience of Cyn-
thia during her passage from earth to the grave of
earthly hope and being, and a history of what befell
thereafter."
These were the spoken words. Once more IYresumed
my .personality, and attended to the affairs of the busy
world. In other days the promises were kept, and this
first book was written.
Nothing further need be said by way of introduction
to what follows, further than to observe that certain
Soul-experiences,'related in the second part, were mine
-the writer's-while the reasonings are nof wholly
such.

#tAI.             #
I PURPOSE to say nothing whatever concerning my
life as a denizen of the outside world-of my existence
or career while clothed with the.garments of mortality.
It is of my death that first I wish to speak, and of what
took place thereafter-of where and how I found my-
self as soon as the icy hand of Death had touched my
heart, and frozen up my vitals. While with my friends,
from whom the change separated me, I was, so far as
frail mortals in my condition of bodily health can b6,
quite happy and contented-contented to endure, with
all possible patience, that for which there was no
medicament, no remedy ; and, all things considered,
satisfied I lived, and in the self-same spirit died. Died?
No ; I am not dead 1-bodies change ; souls can never
die. Why? For- the reason that God,. who, like
human beings, is intelligent and immortal, can Himself
be never blotted out of being,. He is Mind, Memory,
Love, and Will, not one of which can ever perish ; and
these being the attributes of man likewise, it follows
that, so long as. He exists, we must also.
In the year 1854, being ill of consumption the
person, an account of whose experience is given in these
pages, although long previosly somewhat familiar


16

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

with, began to take an especial interest in the great
subject of an hereafter, as revealed by what purported
to be the spirits of departed men and women ; and
then, for the first time, as Death's cold presence
sensibly approached me afar off, and the sense of
GOING began to quicken in my being, I commenced seri-
ously to speculate concerning immortality, and to pay
greater heed to the alleged revelations from the mys-
terious Beyond.
Bye-and-bye, consumption so wasted me, that I grew
tired ; and finally, a mist came before my eyes, and shut
out the fields, the forests, and the faces of my friends,--my
friends-none dearer than whom, were ever clasped to
affection's warm heart. * * * * And so I slept,--but
woke agair from out of that strange, deep sleep, called
Death. The awakening was very strange !--was such
as I had never even imagined to be possible.
"Where am I?" was asked by myself of that very self.
Not mine,.but a lower, sweeter, more musical voice, soft
aid dulcet as the tinkle of a love bell, answered me
from out a veil of rosy light, that hung between me,
and, whatever was beyond. "In the Divine City of
freed souls,--the land of Immortal, but not Eternal
rest." * * * * I felt, and knew that I was---dead!1
As the sense ,of these words struck upon my soul
where this voice came from, seemed very strange to me,
for this reason amongst others : I had, to a certain ex-
tent, familiarized myself with Physics, and knew that
sounds were supposed to be the result of certain aerial
vibrations. Now, supposing this theory to be correct,
it struck me, that.I, a disembodied soul, ought not to be
competent to discern sounds, for there was neither tym-

DEALINGS WITH THE DIM AD.

17

panumto receive, auditory nerves to conduct, nor external
ear, to.collect these waves of sound.
It seemed to me, that one of the two prevalent theo-
ries must be false; either sound is not material, or that
the Spirit of a human being is;-for I had not the shadow
of a doubt, but that I was really, and forever, an in
habitant of the soul-world. If sounds are material, how
was it possible for me to hear them, being a Spirit? If
a Spirit is but a refined form of matter, then the notion
of its eternal durability, is a false one, and there must
come a period when it too, like the body, must dissolve
away. These things troubled me. I had passed to
death, not as a sluggard, and careless of what might
await me, but with every faculty keenly awake., Nor
do Isuppose five minutes elapsed after I emerged from
my body, ere I was perfectly alive to all that surround-
ed me.
I distinctly saw certain familiar things, and recognized
them; but there was not any difficulty in comprehending
the rationale of this; for I perceived that solar light
was not the only source of illumination the earth pos-
sessed. Indeed, there is no such thing as darkness.
The life of all things is light, and although sun, moon,
and stars should hide behind an impenetrable veil, yet
the things of earth would still be visible to the sight of
the soul.
There  are  two   other sources of light; first,
the electrical emanations from every ngaterial object
illumine them, and whatever may be near; and second,
the air itself, which fleshly lungs inhale, is but the outer
garb of a finer and magnetic sea, which not only en-
circles the earth, but stretches away in all directions to

0


18          DEALINGS WITH THiE DEAD.

the outer limits of creation; and in this, all things are
radiant, all things visible.
These observations were quickly made ; and in an
instant thereafter, I turned toward the fleecy veil pie-
viously observed, and saw the figure of an old, gray-
haired man emerge therefrom, leading by the hand, a
sweet and lovely girl apparently about ten years old.
The gleesome smile on that angel's face, the look of
bland benevolence on the features of the man, surpassed
aught of the kind that I hak ever seen before. Both of
them approached, and greeted me. I could not return
the salutation, because the strangeness andi"utter novelty,
not only of iny new situation, but of my sensations,
were such that it was impossible to act as in other mo-
ments, I feel certain I should have been prompted to.
The man spbke, and called me "daughter." The tones
were precisely those I had formerly heard; and two*
things surprised me : First, their serene and liquid
melody,--so very different from those one would na-
turally expect to hear from one of his appearance; and
second, that very appearance itself: for both the man
and child were clothed after the manner and fashion of
the earth.
This was a matter of astonishment, for I had supposed
that the clothing of the Spirit was vastly different
from that of the body. Evidently, the old man read
my mind, and understood the cause of my perplexity.
Drawing near to where I stood, he touched my forehead
with his finger, and said, " Be clear, my child, be clear."
As if that touch were magic, there came an instan-
taneous change over me ; it was as if I thought to the
point I wished, and that with perfect clarity. Things,

which a moment before were wrapped in the folds of
mystery, now became transparent as the plainest I could
wish.
.As a matter of course, I took notice of the friends I
had just left behind me-yes, behind me, in what was
now in very truth a faoff world:--even though not ten
yards intervened, between myself and the dear ones,
who now mourned me; yet in presence of the fact that
I have verymomentous revelations to make,-revelations
that will startle the world,-I cannot now stop to relate
my emotions, my sorrows or my joys, for I felt that at
last I was in the realm of pure knowledge ; and now
feel that this precious opportunity must be improved, to
other ends than a mere recital of my emotions and
sympathies however acute and tender they may have
been.
The communication between the soul-world and earth
is far more difficult and rare than I had believed, or
than thousands believe to-day. Much, I learned, that
passes among men for spiritual manifestation, really has
no such origin, while many things, attributed to an
origin purely mundane, are really the work of intelligent
beings, beyond the misty veil.
Long previous to my final illness, I had held many
interesting conversations with my friends, ,oncerning
the higher life and worlds, and particularly with the
one by whose aid I am now enabled to make these die-
closures; and I had made a solemn compact, to the
effect, that if it were possible to return subsequent to
death, I would do so, and, reveal such mysteries as I
might be enabled or permitted to. This resolution grew
out of the fact, that not one of the theories, regarding

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.-        tJ


20         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

the post mortem existence of human kind, which I had
ever heard or read, gave me the satisfaction that my
soul desired. I suspected that many of the current no-
tions regarding the lands beyond the curtain, were, to
say the least, largely tinctured with the mind of the
individuals through whose lips  he oracular utterances
came ; consequently I became, to a degree, suspicious
of all modern eolism and eolists, because I feared their
inspirations had not so high and deep a source as they
claimed, and is claimed for them.
My mind, in this respect, is still unchanged. The
first lesson that flashed in upon me, after the mysterious
clarification of soul to which allusion has been made,
was this': People on earth spend a great deal of time
in acquiring lessons which have to be unlearned, upon
their entrance on the upper life ;--must be unlearned,
ere they can advance far in the acquisition of the rare
treasures of knowledge, to be found only by the true
seeker, even in that mighty realm which constitutes the
soul-world.
God has placed all true human joys, there, as well as
on the earth, upon high shelves, whence they cannot be
taken by proxy ;-they must be reached for by those
who would have them; and the more precious the joy,
the higher the shelf ;-the more valuable the volume, the
greater effort is required to obtain the perusal thereof.
This is the first great law.
Now, in collecting what purported to. be scraps of
knowledge, from the realm of spiritual existence, I
found on my entry there, that I had laid up quite a
store of falsities in the magazines of my soul:-laid up
great heaps of what I supposed were the gold and dia

mounds of supernal truth; but which, no sooner had I
entered the portals of the vast temple of Eternity, than
I found to be the most useless rubbish; and nearly all
NY treasures proved to be the merest paste and tinsel.
The first thing, therefore, which the soul desirous of
attaining real proficiency in knowledge, has to do, is to
unlearn its follies as quick as possible.
This process is called by a term signifying vastation,
or throwing off. Some do this at once and with ease ;
others linger a long time in error, and only attain the
great end through great trial and perseverance, just as
persons on earth. My desire was ever to, and for the
truth ; hence the process, to me was-one of comparative
ease. The ideas which I had imbibed, and given my
-heart to, concerning matters spiritual, were the same
that are still current amongst those who accept that
which is known as modern Spiritualism. Succinctl
stated, they were these: first, The spirit of a hudag
being is the product of the physical body; the Etim
being is a triplicate, composed of soul, or the thinking
principle, the body, and an intermediate link, called
spirit ; possessing all the organs of, and shaped like
the body, and which serves to connect this last with the
soul, while on earth, and being its ,eternal casket after
death. The soul, spirit and body are called into being
at one time, and that upon the earth.
The° spiritual body, like the physical, is subject both
to waste and want, for which ample and: dueprovision
has by God'been made. It has thirst, hunger, and
amatory love, all of which have their appropriate grati.
fications in the Spirit-world, This spiritual world itself
is on the surface of a zone surrounding the earth, at a

DEALINGS WIl'$ 'THK DEAD.    21.


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.        28

distance of one hundred miles, more or less; above this
zone, is another and another, to the number of twelve ;
each zone is a 'Sphere,' and its inhabitants are divided
off into classes, degrees, societies and circles. All the
pones are diversified with real and absolute rivers, trees,
mountains, lakes, landscapes, cities, and so on, just as is
the material globe; and all these things are fixtures,
Such, in brief, are the general ideas on the subject enter-
tained by-the people ; and such as I had believed and
conceived to be true. But when I came to pass through
the change, and to realize the new condition, I ascer-
tained that so- far from being founded in reality, they
were simply-nonsense !,
According to the foregoing, which is confessedly the,
most popular conception of the realms beyond, and of
its inhabitants, that world is scarcely better than the one
that mortals occupy. These notions totally ignore
Spirit; for, .according to them, Spirit is nothing more'
than matter in an exceedingly refined, or rather, subli-
mated, condition; whereas Spirit is no such thing. True,
it animates material things, but itself is not material.
It is above, beyond, and discreted- from it. Like the
asymptotes of an arc, it forever approaches, but never
actually contacts matter. 'The same general theory. ae,
cords mankind an origiAthere in space and time merely,
and at best predicates but sempiternity, or a future end-
less duration for him; whereas, if soul begins to be at all
on the plane of earth and matter, it must have but a very
ill-grounded assurance of an endless race. No, this is,
not correct ; for Soul, like God, is from forever in the
past; to forever in the distance; and so far from origin-
ating on the earth, it has for myriads of -ons aped

its career through God's infinite Silence Halls, and now
merges, whether for the first time or not, is needless to
inquire at this point, into the vocal Harmonead. In the
life of earth, the soul awakes from its pre-state into one
as different as can well be thought of; and at deathit
experiences another waking,.quite atartling, but in+
finitely more grand.
The fit lesson,then, that I learned was, That with a
great dcal of philosophy, I had but very little -knows=
edge ; and instead of finding the Soul-world analagous
to the earth-world, in fact I found them vastly different,
and possessing no one thing in common, so far as the
surroundings of the spiritual entrant was concerned.
All that has been said required several minutes to de-
scribe, but not ten seconds to experience.
Ilooked towardthe old man and the childmarvellinglas
before observed, that they wore clothing after the man
ner of the earth-kin, and bore the appearance of4e41
treme youth and extreme age.   ' Is it:p~sgible that
years affect souls;? Do we grow old, as well as need
garments in the other world?"  These queries suggest
ed themselves, and while ;present in my mnindythe old
man:came to my right side, and tookime by my left hand,
while the little girl, Nellie,-I subsequently learned she
had been called by the dear ones left behind Derrtook
my right hand ; and bath said, "Come, ;Cynthia, they
await you: let us go to meet-them."
J now made three important discoveries: First, that
I was yet in the room;where my breathhalbeeu resign-
ed that I wAs elthed inprecisely such a dreisas:
had usually worni; and thirdthat so fay asIecohl
judge, I actually trod upon, and walked;over a-stratu

0

22         DEALINGS WITH THB DE9,II.


24           DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
of air, just such air as I had been used to breathe, albeit
that was not possible any longer, for the reason that
it was, all too heavy for the respiratory apparatus of
that which now constituted my body, or at least the
vehicle of myself-the thinking, acting, living me. My
method of locomotion differed essentially from that of
my two companions, who did not walk, but seemed to
glide along at will through that same air, which was
to me quite palpable, for I distinctly noticed that its
touch was of a velvety character, and quite elastic. My
feet moved ; theirs did not. And so we passed out of
the house through the open door,-for a person had
just entered.
From one or two incidental circumstances that took
place, not essential to this narrative, and therefore with-
held, I became convinced that unless some incarnate
man or woman had raised the latch of that door, it
must, so far as I was concerned, have remained shut to
all eternity, barring wind, decay, accident, or an earth-
quake ; for in my then state of enlightenment on the
subject, I saw no possible means whereby to effect our
liberation. It struck me that unless some such agency
as has been named, came to our assistance, we must
either make our egress by means of the chimney, or
stay pent up there until the elements dissolved a portion
of the edifice ; or, supposing it to be proof against de-
cay, a dreadful alternative, so;it seemed,. there we must
remain for evermore. Subsequently I learned that even
were such a thing possible, and I never got outside of that
dwelling, yet it would be far less terrible than fear might
lead one to imagine or suspect ; for still there would re-
main, not only an infinity of duration, but also a universe

ta

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.           2
to move and be in, quite as infinite in both extent and
variety beside; for the Soul,I soon discovered,was a Vasti*
tude in and of -itself; and should it happen that not one
of the moments of its mighty year be spent in thedsociety
of others like unto itself, yet there would be but little occa
sion for ennui; not one lonely minute need be spent, for all
its days-,-,if for illustration's sake, Imay predicate time of
that whereof, emotions and states are the minutes and
the hours-might be profitably employed in visiting its
own treasure houses and in counting therare jewels there
stored away ; besides which, it could perform many a
pleasant voyage, visiting mighty continents, rare islands,
wondrous cities, and marvellous countries of its own
tremendous being ;-aye ! it could amuse itself for ages
in merely glancing at the hills, valleys, caverns-strange
deep caverns they are too--the oceans, forests, fields
fens, brakes, and marshes of its mighty self; nor would
its resources be exhausted at the thither end of the
rolling wave of Time; because time is not to the cul : its
duration and successions are- of thought, not seconds-
so wonderful, so vast,-so illimitable, and, taken as a
unit, so incomprehensible, save by the Over-soul himself,
is the human being. Soul! thou august thing! Felt ,
thou mayest be ; understood by none, save God; and,
albeit wemary explore a little of thy forelands, yet only
He can penetrate thy depths ; only He can trace the
streams that water thee to their source, andThat sone
can be no other than His divine heart, who, forever un
seen, is never unfelt ; an invisible worker afar off, yet
near -at hand; one who spreadeth the banquet, and pre
pareth the feasters, who worketh ever in secret, yet
who doeth all things well ! Soul! 1ighty potentate!
2

;,,
. r x

_ :
.      /


26

DEALINGS WITH. THE DEAD.

Victim at once, and victor of circumstance and time !
Thou enigma, which millions think they have solved,
even while thou laughest at them ; who imagining they
have untied the knot. have not even found the clue !
Strange riddle ! Thing. of which men think they are
well informed, because they have learned a few of thy,
names, and can call thee Psyche, Soul, Spirit, Pneuma
and Breath; word-names, which generally convey about
as much of thee to the common understanding, as the
name-words Algebra, Geometry, Music and Number, do
to the barbarians who hear them pronounced, of the
vast realities that underlie the sounds 'or the signs.
Soul! Existence, whereof eolists and pedants learnedly
prate and bluster in long phrase and loud tone, as if
thou didst not command silence of him who would,
approach thee, and seek to know the awful mysteries
slumbering beneath thy titles. Soul ! Whereof, every-.
body- talks so much, but of which even the wisest of
either earth or heaven know so very little.
SWell, in my ignorance, I felt that unless some one,
something material, had opened that door, we must stay
imprisoned there in that house upon the hill, forever and
for evermore.
How little, how very little, I then knew or suspected
concerning the mighty powers la-tent, and never yet fully
unfolded in any human being-no matter whom, no
matter where located, how high in heaven, on earth, or
deep down in the bottomless hell, or the blackest
barathrum of the infinitudes of Possibility. No one
save God can fathom the profounds- of Soul. Why?
Because, like Him, it is absolutely Infinite: Him, in
Conscious Power-it, in Capability ! Very imperfect

iF
?
n_
'
'
~
a Ys
££ ,..
37
{          T
'
Q$   }-_
j    }. .
,  T
k          ,
.' "{
A
X   ,
"9  y
+'
:
~         v
"  :.,
4
+}  w
S    '
{ ;
_  i
4 Y
'   ti
Y
k!1 1
!b    i
i{  ' .   ,
i t
'#   c
_ 7
{
tr .
7
_
f
.
'_
"
" 3
i'~
y
@Y Y

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.           27
still, and necessarily so, yet -my notions of the Soul's
powers were then exceedingly vague, crude, and unde-
fined. In other and succeeding states to which I subse-
quently attained, much of this ignorance was dispelled by
new light which constantly brpke in upon my being.
And we passed beyond the portal of the house, my-
self crossing at the same instant its threshold, and that
of Time ; nor did I once cast a glance toward the frail
and decaying shell from which a joyous thrill of super-
consciousness told me that I had forever escaped ; in-
deed I had no disposition to do so, for the reason that
new and -strange emotions and sensations crowded so
fast upon me, that my whole attention was absorbed
thereby ; for they swept like the billows of a wind -
troubled lake, across the entire sea of my, new-born
being. One thought, and one alone, connected with
earth, assumed importance, and that was associated
with the physical phenomenon of dissolution, and if-
shaped itself in a. hundred ways with the rapidity of
.lightning-no, not lightning, but quicker, for that is
very slow compared to the flashings and the rushings
forth of thought, even in the earth-made brain; how
much more rapid, then, from a source around which
are no cerebral impediments to obstruct. "IDeath-this
it is to be DEAD !" thought I. How blind, how deaf we
are, not to see, and know, and hear, that all things
tell of life, life, life--being, rear and true; while
nothing, nothing in the great domain of our God,
speaks one word of absolute death, of a blotting out of
Soul-Soul, which, while even cramped in cores bodies;
sometimes mounts the Capitals of existence, and with
far-penetrating vision pierces the profoundest depths of

,.
.q
r


rN
.r
a
7
r
j
,X
I{
=e"
c
ter,
r
r
r
I
r
;t
i
'~4
U
ire , }.

DEALINGS WrI hThlE DEAD.

spae  gazesagle-like uponthe very sun of Glory
laughsdeath to scorn and -surveys the fields of two,
6tritis-one behind, and one before it. This thing
cannever die, nor taste a single drop of bitter death !
'How strange, how wonderfully strange I feel;
yet these sensations are of excellent health, of exhilarant
buth, of concentration and power; nor hath decrep-
tude or decay aught therein.
I am not faint, but strong; not sad, but joyous.".
These were my observations on, realizing the great
change. Many a time had I read and heard of the
capacity human beings have of experiencing joys purely
nervous. Nearly all presenthuman' pleasures are based
.pon the fineness and susceptibility of the nerves tore-
ceive and impart magnetic' impressions. "My nerves
had aforetime;.been made to tingle with strange,.deep
bliss when in the presence of those ,I loved, after their.
return from long absence ; I had tasted' the exquisite
nectar from the lips of an innocent prattling babe, and
had known the tumultuous thrill of 'friendship's joyous.
meetings ; and yet all these were as blasts af frozen
air to what now kept running, leaping, flying, dancing
through me. It was the' supremely delicious'sense of
being dead-the voluptuous joy'consequent upon dying.
At first it seemed to "me that keener joy, or deeper
bliss would be impossible for' man or woman to experi-
ce than those that now were mine. After a while I
learned better.
Mankind expand from the action of two principles-
tntellect and Intuition; the first being the basis of pro-
gression, the latter of development. Some, both"in and
out of the body, are built up by one, some by the other;

28'V/     f

L8
r
ij
'1 2
a4
ti r  F
5
44
Y7
5 -
i

D.EALUW a$ -WIThTU .E ' DEADr my,.fr
and niany rise from the"combined ation ofbot. M y
of the dead pursue thetfiunphs of intellect and in
gation,just as when on earth. These are the p
sionists-vast in number, great in deed'but corstituting
an inferior order, as they must ever be secondary to
that vaster-host and higher order who climb theiladder
of intuition. Without egotism, then, but in all humility
I say that great joy was, mine on fifiing myself ui}m
bered with the larger army. 'It was, inaallusion 'to the
apt that all the learning a man may acquire .on earth,
really stands him but little on the other sidethat n
of old declared that in that upper kingdom the first
should be last, and the last be first ; for it often ha pens
that one almost ignorant in a worldly sense, may ha
the highest and the grandest intuitions of truth, divested
of the thick coats wherewith learning often clothes it
People in whom intellect predominates over intuition,
naturally gravitate to their true position in the realmsf
beyond. Their destiny is to be for a long time (and of
such " time" can justly be predicated) pilgrims in the
Spirit-world or middle state,' whereas all in whom
intuition is exalted, can not only be occasional residents,
for redemptive purposes, of the outer Spiritworld, but
are intromitted to .the 'deeper and sublime realities of
the Soul-world-.a world as much different- from the
merely Spiritual kingdom as'is the processes of a music
cian's sul, when at high tide, superior to the-nmenta1
operations of a inidnight burglar. A-vei1 divides thoe
worlds as. completely as does a similar one separate
earth from Spirit-land. . Two beings there may mKeet;
one a resident  of the Sou-realm, the otlier a denize dof
Spirit-land; the former may be in close propinquity with

1

y.
1


30         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

the latter, and yet the spheres of their several existences
be ,as far' -apart as is North from South.. The one sees-
and knows only from appearances, the other from posi-
tive rapport. This fact at -once explains many of the
differences in the accounts which mortals receive, and un-
mistakably so,'from the lands beyond the swelling flood,
The kingdoms o'er the sea. My knowledge flowed in
upon me through the channels of intuition, and through
them I learned that the hyper-sensational joys to which
allusion has been made, are ever experienced in exact
ratio to the purity of the past record of the life. ;Those
which I felt were only of the fourth degree, there being
three beyond, though how mine should have been so
intensified and deepened, was, and, for reasons plainly
to be seen, must ever remain, a mystery. The amount,
degree, and even kind, of joy felt by any soul upon its
passage over the Myst, depends upon three things, and
these are : First, the nature of the motives which, pre-
vious to the mortuary divorce, prompted to all or any
action, either' toward the self, the neighbor, or society ;
Second, the amount of good a person has done on earth ;
and Third, the amount of use, in' the higher sense, they
may have gpbserved previous to physical dissolution.
Nellie and I, and the old giay-haired man-who ac-
companied her, soon reached the road in front of the
house wherein I had lived, and wherein I was born into a
newer phase of life. While looking at my companions,
to find out Whither they were going, the child, by the
exercise of a power not then fully understood by myself,
rose into the air a foot or more, laid her hand gently on
my forehead, patted it 'tenderly, and said : "Cone !
V Lre going to show you your home, and then mine,

DEALINGS WITH THE :DEAD. .
and then his /" She said this with a smile, so pure, so
radiant, that I instantly divined that there was truth in
the theory that every one has a conjugal mate in the
universe somewhere, albeit I shrank from, and dreaded
to meet mine, if, indeed, I had one, for I had seen some-
what of that which passes for love among men; and,
while hailing and delighting in amicive, I felt a shud,
dering disgust at anything that assumed the form of
amatory love. Love was admired, but its passional
phases feared and despised. My tutelage was just
begun.
The touch of the child's hand was as plain, palpable
and physical as any touch ever felt before,-quite as
much so as was that of the dear sister who smoothed
my dying brow. 'After all, then, spirits are material.
I feel their fingers, see their forms, hear their words,
and I am in all respects as nervously sensitive as ever
in the by-gone years of sickness ! Oh, this -mystery of
the double existence, which, after all, seems to be but
two phases of a single state ; when, when shall it be
solved ?' This thought passed through my mind, nor
can there be the least doubt but they both read it quite
as well as myself, for the old man smiled gently and
benignly, the girl with half-concealed merriment and
glee.
I now passed off into a strange and peculiar state,
but whether what followed resulted from the touch oft
not, it is impossible to say. At first I was seized with
an intense desire to know more of what must be called
my physique, and a rapid inspection revealed the fact
that I possessed, all and-singular, the organs in the new
condition, that had been in the old. There were my


32       -        LINGS WITH THE DEAD.
and+~-real, actual hands, evidently,-but they were
pr thin, pale emaciated, wrinkled, and of a decidedly
e, consumptive caste,-precisely as they had appeared
every day r the a t long months of pain and nisery..
y hair wa   i   ,'and in all other respects as before-
-ufeet felt tender ; nor was there any difference be-
tween my then, and prior state, except that a nameless
riling joy pervaded me, and which left absolutely
nothing to be wished for in that respect ; for as the
mouth of every nerve drew in the magnetic essence, in
which I floated, it seemed as if living streams of sense-
joy rushed through every channel and avenue of being;
and it struck m  that if there were no other reward
for having lived and suffered, yet that the sensations
consequent upon physical death would fully compenaate
a life of agony.*
Soon a' sense of vacuity stole over me, and brought
the realization, that having passed through two worlds
I was rapidly approaching one still more wonderful
and strange.
Many a time had I been mesmerized by. friends, in my
far distant-dwelling, by my well-beloved brother J. in par-
ticular, who all sought by that means to alleviate my
sufferings; and not seldom had I passed into what is
popularly termed the Superior State;t and the feeling
* All the dead people are not thus favored. Up to the present
was an inhabitant merely of the Spiritual world, but had not yets
entered upon the vast domains of the realm of Soul. There are two
worlds into which it is possible for man to step into from the portals
of the grave, as all will be convinced who either study the subject or
give this introductory work a careful perusal.
My researches have proved to me, that in nine cases in every
ten, taking an entire average, the sleeping subject never once actually

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

23

induced by Nellie's touch was akin to that, but was far
more profound.'. First there came a sort of mental re-
trocession, consequent upon my previous intellectual
activity.    The soul-principle seemed to bound back
from its investigations of the previous moment, to a
pinnacle within itself, from whence it as rapidly sunk
down into one of the profoundest labyrinths of its own
vast caverns.
Down, down, still lower and deeper into the awful
abyss of itself it sank, until at last it stood solitary and
alone in one of its own secret halls. The outer realm,
with all its pains and joys, cares, sorrows and ambitions,
hopes, likes, antipathies and aspirations; all its shadows
and fitful gleams of light, were left behind, and naught
of the great wide world remained; for its lakes and
green trees, its gardens and its tiny brooks,its beetling
cliffs and radiant sky grew     distant, very distant, until
at length a cold and chilling horror crept over me, and
suggested that perhaps, after all, the fearful doctrine
enters the domain of spirit at all, during the trance; but instead
thereof, roams and revels in the Fancy Realm of his own, or some one
else's soul. A suggestion,-either spontaneous or accepted-serves as
the hither end of a clue, the line reaching just where the partially freed
mind chooses to direct it. Frequent repetitions of the exercise"'of this
organ of spectral- illusion, lead directly to bad results, for ,the
illusions soon impress themselves as realities, and the grossest and
most absurd fanaticisms result ; as witness the thousand phases of
spiritual belief. In addition to this, the habit of mesmerizing, or bel
ing mesmerized, is a ruinous one to all concerned, producing pestilence
-and moral death. True, where both parties are good and pure, no
harm may at first ensue, but at last an abnormal susceptibility results'
by which any man or woman may be led into "the jaws of death, into
the mouth of hell." I speak of course concerning indiscriminate Mag-
netizing.      2*
2*-

t-'


34

PhALZN Y'Sf WITH CTILE DEAD.

mighkt1e true, which declares, that some human beings
are Godidoomed to annihilation ; and the. anguish that'
tlis conceit brought with it, was almost unbearable,
even by a free-born soul. But, thank God! this last
Yolly of the philosophers,---last and greatest save one-
te doctrine that "whatever is is right," in every and all
senses, is a libel on Himself and His goodness.
Finally it seemed as if my being had been concentered,
'    or localized to a single point, and even that soon faded
out, and anutter blankness enveloped my soul. How long
this continued is impossible to be told, but the next ex-
perience was that consequent upon a series of sudden
thrills or shocks, like unto those which a person receives
who takes hold of the conducting knobs of a highly
charged galvanic battery,-or rather when touching
the cup of a leyden jar. These instantly aroused me.
I started up as from a death-stupor. But what a change,
if not in myself, at least in my surroundings ! I was in
the center of a new, but limited world. Around me
was an atmosphere of mellow rosy light, different from
any ever known to me before,-an atmosphere, radiant,
sweet, soft, and redolent with perfumes of an order and
fineness surpassingly grateful. ' I was in the Soul-world,
--my Soul-world :-a realm whereof God alone was
Lord-and I His tributary Queen. The feelings con-
sequent on this induction were strange, but pleasant.
The thoughts that now arose, were not, as formerly,.
mere shadowy forms, inconsistent and impalpable, nor
was the scene of their action within the head; true,
they were born there, but that was all. They were
no longer subjective merely, fleeting and ephemeral,
but were objective, positive and real. I saw, but not

DEALIN~GS WITH- THE DEAD.
alone with eyes, for the simulacraeof the object w
nessed within that sphere, even the faint outline o e
most far-off memograph, seemed to stream in upon me
through'a thousand new doors, and I appeared to ac-
quire knowledge by two opposite methods,; first by o-
ing out involuntarily to whatever was to, be, known;
and second, by absorbing the images of, things,-just
as the eye absorbs a landscape.
A person beholding me at that moment, would have
concluded, and rightly too, that -I had just arisen from
off a sort'of cloud-couch near the center of the sphere,
toward which my face was turned. On that couch I
beheld the exact image. not of my person, but of ,he
clothes, the resemblance of which to those once worn
on earth, it will be remembered, had .so greatly sur-
prised me in the earlier part of this experience. While
yet I gazed upon that ghost of a dress, it slowly faded
into nothingness. Desiring to know the rationale pf
this occurrence, it came to me that the worlds are not
only full of objects, but must necessarily be still more
full of the images thereof,-images which fix themselves
more or less permanently, on whatever plastic material
which they may chance to come in contact with. Some-
times the lightning will pass over a body or object;
and in passing will fix and bring out into visibility the
images of things already there. Nature is full .of
mirrors. This is the memory of Matter--the Photo-
graphy of the substantial universe. Memory- but th e
photography of soul. Everything-that strikes the eye, or
the senses in any way, leaves an exact image of itself upon
the -cylinder of Retention, which cylinder winds and
unwinds, according as it takes on or gives off the im-


DEALIN    WITH THE DEAD.

pression, whatever it may be.  Thus the image of a
tone, a sound, a peculiar trill, as well as of material,
things, can be, and are photographed upon the soul.
Nothing is lost,--not even the myriad images floating
off from all things about us, day after day. The
amazing beauties of a snow storm, a sleet shower, an
autumn forest, a rich garden, the countless flowers on
which man's material eye never rested, are all safely
cared for by Nature's Daguerrian Artist, and they float
about the material worlds until sometimes the frost will
pin a few of them to the window-panes in winter, or
they are breathed through the spiritual atmosphere into
some poetic soul, who incarnates them in canvass, marble,
or deathless verse. This revelation, of course, proves
that there isla higher world than most men have yet
dreamed of, and that too, right around them. In fact,
all things and events are but a simple. process of what
may be called Deific Photography. All forms, all
things, all events, are but God's thoughts fixed for a
time. These mental images go forth in regular' or~er,
and constitute the sublime procession of the ages, and
all human events and destinies are but'the externaliza-
tion of Deific fore-had thoughts. Here is the rationale
of vaticination or prophecy. Certain persons are so
exalted, that moving in the-Spiritual atmosphere, which
contains the. pre-images of approaching events, they
read a few of them, and lo! in the coming years the
occurrences are enacted; for the spiritual phasmas
have taken form,-the reflected image of the Deific
thought has at last passed through the dark material
camera, been fixed by a law of celestial chemistry,
brought out to the surface, or 'developed,' by the grand

manipulators of Nature's laboratory, and lo! anew
the world and age rejoices, though individuals;and com-
munities may mourn.
There is truth, therefore, in the doctrine of fore-ordi-
nation. But this truth is general. always, and not par
ticular, for while the current and area of events are
pre-established, still every soul, in any and all its states,
has an absolute sphere of self-itivity ;-the, law of
Distinctness permits it to take the utmost advantage of
conditions for its o wn improvement. For instance,
take that which constitutes aVeach tree, or a rose, give
itWand its successors the best possible chance to unfold
its latent properties, and the rose or peach principle
will put forth, in the course of two generations, a forest
of beauties, an ocean of perfume, a mine of loveliness,
which, judging the plants by what appeared originally,
they never contained ; and yet nothing is more certain
than that every plant, even the prickly pear, the brist
-ling-thorn, and unsightly thistle, contain the germs of a,
beauty too vast to be comprehended by mortal man.
In the succeeding pages there is an account of God
and Monads which will add much to the needed light
on this subject. I cannot express them now for lack of
suitable conditions, which can only be had in the midst
of religious calm, holy solitude, and beneath a more
sunny sky than bends over us at the present writing.
As the appearance of my dress faded away, and the
truth just faintly limned, flashed across ne, I began
to realize somewhat of the majesty of the thing called
soul ; and saw that, while the dress was a mere spectral
garb, so also were those of the little girl and the old
man-they were .illusory-mere will-woven garments,

DEALINGS WITH -T .U DEAD.',


AE.tN49 .WITH= TkIL BEAD,
nothing but appearances. And yet, had I been que-
tio ed   regard.to the matter, while in my previous
state, I would have freely sworn that all I saw was
'ealr-for in my then unenlightened state, they were so.
This suggests the subject of insanity. A man may be
in a state wherein he can only behold appearances. To
him they are real, to some one else they are false, while
to those who can look over the entire ground, both
would be deemed right and both wrong. Man is of
birthright a creator, and the law of Distinctness forces
his creations to resemble himnlf. If he is poor and
lean, so will be the world he fashions around him voli-
tionally, or which shall be his natural and spontaneous
-out-creation. The highest happiness of man is found
in the act of creation, whether it be poem, picture, en-
gine, system of thought, or anything else. Hence the
enfranchised soul, dwelling in its real world, on the
thither side of time, has the power of assumption to a
degree commensurate with its desire for wisdom, its
determining motives, the good it has done, and the
ends of use it has accomplished. It can, therefore,
assume any form it pleases,-but for the purpose Qf
wrong-doing, or concealing its identity, it is utterly
powerless in this respect ; so that while it may mas-
querade as much as it chooses to for its amusement,
that'of others, or to instruct,; yet 4 must be forever
known as A, nor can A ever pass for B, save in cases'
of insanity, wherein A has a firm conviction that he is
really B, in which case, and for redemptive ends, he is
sometimes recognized as B, till his cure is effected. It
is in accordance with this law of distinctness .that the
righteous- dead, who do really sometimes come back on

DEALINGS ,'ywIHTJIE DAD h.,

sQ

visits to their former homes, always appear to men clad
as they used to be when incarnated  They; -are coin-
pelled to this course by an integral law of soul, so long
as there are any on earth capable of recognizing them,.
or so long as a good descriptive portrait may exist. If'
the likelihood of identification does not exist, then the
spirits may assume such instructive or beautiful forms
as are either the spontaneous expression of their interior
state, or as their goodness may suggest, and unfolded
wisdom prompt.
Some of my readers may feel disposed to inquire,
"Where was my soul when it made these interesting
discoveries ?" The response is: NOT in SPACE, not in
TIME; for I was in a CoNDITION above and beyond these,
just as tune is above tone, or as meaning is above and
beyond the mere sound of the words conveying it. I
sustained the precise relation to time, and space, and
matter, that heat does to cold, light to shadow,-ehape
to essence, phantasmata to reality, bulk to number,
number to mass, or any two- antithetical things whereof.'
men may have ideas. I had become a resident of a ne'
universe, differing as greatly from that upon which
man's vision rests, as that itself is different from dream-
land, My glad soul had crossed the shores of timie
and distance, and the barque of its existence was fairly
launched upon the vast ocean of a new eternity.
0, ye babblers of vain philosophy, who nurse folly
for aye, and call it wisdom, ye who are so deeply en-
grossed in nursing your pet theories--theories planted on
nothing, and reaching nowhere, what know ye really of
the other stages of human existence ?. Nothing! Aye,"
truly, nothing!' and echo, hollow echo,gives back-

tii.             '


40          DALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

nothing !, Aye, verily, nearly all your crude specula-
tions, and smooth plausibilities are as void of reality,
are as hollow as is the shell of an echo when all the
sounds have flown ! Your fine-spun hypotheses, con-
cerning the origin of the human soul,* its nature and
the mode of its existence subsequent to physical disso-
lution, are too meager and unsound,-aye ! void as is a
vacuum of substance and solidity; nor with all your
loudly trumpeted knowledge of the state and status
of the soul after its departure from the barbarisms of
earthly life, to the true social state in realms where
civilization is first truly known, have ye much else
than the faintest glimmering of the great reality. Phi-
losophers.! Verily, much learning hath made you mad;
else would ye have assigned the human soul a better
than a merely sensual heaven, where lust should be
freely sated, and where appetite and its varied gratifi-
cations constitute the sum total of enjoyment. What
splendid conceptions! What a magnificent destiny !
How worthy of the human soul! How great a reward for
years of agony! 0, philosophy, how very lame thou art !
Thou tellest man, through thy oracles, that the spirit-
home is situate upon the upper surfaces of sundry zone-
girdles of the planet : and by the same rule we may ex-
pect thee to describe God as being so many cubits high,
and so many yards across the hips! Nay, thoumightest as
well describe a thought as containing just so many cubic
inches, and deal out music to us by the quart or gallon !
* Which it is firmly believed is herein briefly stated for the first
time since the world began. The meagre outlines hereinafter presented,
will be fully drawn and demonstrated in the succeeding volume.-
Publisher.

DEAIS   W   TH HHDEAD.-;-
Philosophy, thou', sick ! else thou wouldest= have f mud
a betteradapted home for immortal beings, than-an
electric land formed of the rejected atoms from the
various earths. To thee, and in thy light, an oak tree
is but an assemblage of material atoms ;arose, its
thorns, leaves and moss, are only such: the wild tiger
,of the jungle, the humped-back camel of Zahara's sands,
the sportive lamb, unsightly toad, the serpent in the
grass, the dove in its cote;- the flitting bat, and the flap-
winged night-owl, the majestic giraffe, and the beauty-
plumed warbler of the forest, are to thee but mere forms
of ,exuberant life ; mere natural products, tile spont-
neous gift of an all-bounteous, but unintelligent, non-
.conscio'us natural force. Pantheal Shame on thee,
Philosophy, shame, because with the open book be-
fore thee, thou hast steadily refused to read, nor ever
even dreamed that each one of these things indicates
the stage of out-growth to which a monad-constitut-c
ing its'spiritual center, has arrived on its journey-from
God, through Matter, back to God through Spirit! It
liath never struck thee that each of these things, .and
all other objects in the vast material realm, constitute
single letters in God's alphabet,* and a letter too, hav-
ing a fixed and absolute meaning, significant, and un-
alterable value. Weak man! thou dostnot even imagine
that all these things are of thyself-thy kind-abiding
the epoch wherein they will, as thou hast already sprung,
leap forth to light, and new, and proper human life.
* God said, .' I am Alpha and Omega, the Beginning and the End.'
How beautiful, how grand is the light thrown on this sentence and its
deeper meaning, by the few lines to which this note is appended.-
Publisher.


42         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

Thou-dost not realize that they are latent, while thou-
and":thy kind are active, self-moving thoughts of .one
great eternal thinker P Thou hast not yet learned that
every living thing, vegetable or sentient, is a temporary
home of.a mighty monad. "But do you not know that
scientific men have created conditions which have pro-.
duced independent, and therefore unknown, undreamed
of forms of animal life, as the acarus crossi, and others ?"
This objection does not invalidate the truth, nor weak-
en the force of the statement. All things have a use.
Nothing has been made in vain. Even the most dis-
gusting traits in animals, are matched . in the human ;
and the poverty and squalor, the obscenity and loath-
liness of many human beings, rival, nay, surpass their
correspondents in the lower sentient world. Nature is'
a system of precise conditions ; nor dare you say that
there were not conditions that befell a monad or monads,
in which the eternal law did not demand and secretly
force the effort of the chemist, which resulted in the
productions of an acarus, which may have afforded the
necessary requirements of various monads, or human
germ-souls, in one point of their career.
All matter is alive with imprisoned spirit ; every
globule of this latter, unique, and existing in inn umer-
able folds, contains-a monad, a germ, concealing within
itself capacities quite infinite in number and power.
- During its long probation it ever seeks to escape its
outer bonds, just as certain shell-fish and serpents cast
their old envelopes. But in every stage of its unfold-
ing, every monad expresses a lesser or higher phase of the
one great thought of God--Personality, Coherence,
Powc. Unity. All the characteristics of the floral,

vegetable and animal kingdoms, are but elements of
something higher, afterwards expressed in the human.
Thus a fox means shrewdness--cunning, low    cun-
nling ; and' that some men have not -yet outgrown
their recollections and applications of fob-craft, is
self-evident to the most casual observer. The ass
is the natural symbol of patience, the cat of dupli-
city, the lion of firmness ; an elephant stands as gener-
osity, the horse is pride ; the peacock, vanity, the dog
affection; and so on through an infinite scale of varia-
tions. All living things are but developing monads,, at
whose bottom slumbers-what will one day be an impe-
rial human soul ! And these monads develope off their
surfaces continually ; the longer and more varied the
process, the more beautiful the grand result at each suc-
cessive stage. Thus the monad whose highest manifes-
tation ten thousand years ago, may have been a thistle,
perchance looks pp to heaven this day from the glorious
eyes of a rose-bush, or a dove. The great truth seems
never to have been apprehended by the great army of
those who have made thinking a business ; that while
beasts, trees and flowers are not, as such, endowed with
a specific immortality, yet at every stage of their being
they constantly give off images of themselves, which are,
and ever will be immortal. These images constitute
the pictures of the soul-world ; but the essence, the in-
nate force that developed that of which they are the
representations, returns to God whence it started, a full
and regal human soul. Thus it is seen how and why
man is the culmination of nature, and is brother to the
flower and the worm.

DEALINGS - WITH -- THE ]DEAD,  43


A44          lEA1 TNGS WIT t 'TR  DEAD.

" All are bat parts of one stupendous ,whole,"
All sentient things the body,-man the regal soul!"
No telescope has yet enabled man to count the rounds
in the ladder of luminous worlds; no iicrosceg re=
veals the mysteries imbedded in a grain ofwheat.
Still he may count them, if he will; .may delve into
their secrets if he shall so elect; yea, if he will but listen'
to the fine voice speaking  up from his inmost deeps, he
may learn somewhat of the
"Up, up, up, there in the steep and silent heaven
there shines a radiant sun,, more glorious than even a°
seraph might tell. Its essence is not matter, but spirit;
andfom its surface there go forth three kinds of light;
the ouetin rays, another in waves. Condensed, the former
becomes matter, and the latter is the ocean in Which it is:
upborne,-in which the worlds are floating, and in which
all things have a being. Aye ! all things ride upon
the billows of this infinite sea, even as a shallop or a
egg-shell sails-upon the tiny wavelets of a lake. The
third substance given off 'from this great sun goes forth
in corruscations. The first kind of light proceeds from
the surface, the second from  the interior, the third
from the very heart of this infinite center,-or from God's
body, His spirit, and His soul. The first is pure fire,
the second pure life, the third is the sea of monads.
Every scintilla of that which proceeds from the souliof
this sun (like that which proceeds from a human brain

D1ALIGSUWIThm THI "b.1EADE       45
in action) is a thought, shootout into the vast expanse,
but destined to return by another paAthway, not di
rest, but circuitous and spiral. Well, (says the-voice
speaking from within to the philosopher who islisten-
ing to the revelation) I was ,one of these monads;,ad
found myself enveloped in a myriad folds and firmly im
.bedded in a granite rock, where I remained shut up for
long ages; pining constantly for deliverance from the
thraldom. Even then I found my monad heart pulsing
with a divine life, and ardently longed to celebrate
the knowledge; for I knew I came from Deity, and
longedfor my return.
My first, recollections are of a fiery character, for
my dwelling was in the very nucleus of" a comet that,
had just been whirled into being. How ? I cannot
now stop to explain. Only this will I. say : with me
there were myriads of others, .for in every molecule of
spiritual and material substance, was imbedded  n&amp;6f
my brethren, all longing to escape and return to the
heart of God, whence we had been sent forth to per
feet His great design.
The comet cooled : became a world, and finally an
earthquake threw the~block of granite w herein was I,
to the surface; and bye-and-bye, after waiting many ages,
I found room to move, and did so. The result was
that we--the other monads and myself, changed our outer
shells into moss. The moss died, and left us free to
try what further we could do for be it known that our
forces had not yet been fairly called into action. The
next change was - a higher one, :and afforded scope for
the display of a higher order of power. This time I
became a plant; and the next time a plant.of a higher


DEALINGS  WITH THE DEAD.     47

character; at -each epoch losing one coat;* until at last
I could be plant no longer, and so was forced hy a law
within, as well as laws without myself, to become the
center of an animal. And so I ran the gamut of change
through countless ages; every new condition being more
and more favorable, brought out new properties from
within me, and displayed new beauties to the sun's .
bright eye. I was still a monad, and will ever be. such
in one sense; albeit Time, after reaching my human form,
will be of no account,-only states. Something whis-
peredme that I should ever advance toward, but never
reach perfection. I felt that, monad though I was,
yet at my heart, my core, my center, I was the germ of
an immortal human-soul, and that that soul itself was des-
tined to throw off form after form after its material career
was ended, just as I had all along the ages. And thus
I passed through countless changes, exhibited a million
characteristics, until at last,. I who had at first worn a
body of fire, then of .granite, then of moss, now put on
a higher and nobler dress, and became for the first time,
self-conscious, intelligent, and in a degree, intuitive'
both as to the past, the present, and the future. And
all these infinite changes were effected by throwings 6ff,
in regular order, just as material suns throw off ring
after ring, which in turn resolve themselves into planet
after planet. During all these transmigrationsmy monad
body was active, my monad soul quiescent,but ripening all
* An onion is a familiar analogue. As the process went on the mo-
nad lost layer after layer, each one developing higher forms of excel-
lence and beauty than the preceding,-yet the same monad 1till.
Each layer demanding and creating, so to speak, its proper require-
ments and conditions. Here is the germ of a grand system.-Publisher.

the while ; first in plant, then in the lower and higher
forms of fish, reptile, birdsbeast and mammel,-quadruped
and bimanal. Thus I had reached the most distant pro-
phecy of what .1 was hereafter to become; and as it may
interest you to learn   the steps by which - ;ascended,
from the pre-human, to the very hmnan, I will recount
them in general. The list is therefore as follows: the
first approach to the man was, when I found myself
successively animating, as a:central life-point, the forms
of Simte, Satyrii, Troglodyte, the Gibbons, Hylobates,
and Cynocephalii, passing through the specific forms of
Coluga, Aye-aye,      Banca-Tarsier,- Maholi,    Lemur
Loris, Diadema, Indrus, Marikina, Marmoset, Dou-
couli, Saimari, Yark6, Saki, Couzio, Cacajou, Sajou, Sa
'kajou, Araquato, Meriki, Coitii, Marimondi, Oharneck,
Drill, Mandril, Chucma, (baboon,) Wanderoo, " hun-
der, Togue, Mona, Quesega, Colubii, Budong, EFntellus,
Kahaw, (developing the human nose,) Gibbon, Siaiag;
the Hylobates, Orangs, Chimpanzee, Gorrilla, Nsehiego,
Troglodyte, Kooloo Kamba, Barbeta, Aitcromba, Ha-t
maka; (Troglodyte of Mount de Garrow,) Neg; Bos-
jesman, Hottentot,* Negro, Malay, Kanaka, Digger,
* This theory must be true, for an astonishing confirmation ther56f
isnot only found in the marvelous resemblances between human and
animal features, but in the still more wonderful fact, that the human
foetus assumes at various stages of its increment, successively the ap-
pearance, of moss, lichen, gelatin, reptile, bird, beast 'and so on all
the way up to its final human form, and if the gestation in even a
perfect female be interrupted at a certain stage, the child is born with
the characteristics which distinguish the animal whose $atural place
upon the ascending plane is that at which the gestation was disturbed.
The facial angle of some persons is precisely that'of the Lemurs ; the
human Lusus Naturam so-called,'invariably resemble some beast, bird,
reptile or monkey. It, is but a few years ago that a negro woman o

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.


48            DEIALINGer wI. .HE      EAI .
Indian, Tartar, Chinese, Hindoos, Persians, Arabian,
Gu'eek, Turk, German, Gaul, Briton, American.! There's
the list, in general terms; specific explanations are not
needed at. this point.    The last eighteen are strictly
human, for at the point (Neg) I ceased to develope ani-
mal   and.in passing through that highest form of ani-
mal existence, I was impelled one step further, and lot
the first course of transmigrations      were ended ; I
awoke to a consciousness of self, and man, the immortal
stood revealedi-
Thus I supply the lost links, 0    Philosophers, which
connect yov with the worlds above, around, and below
the:plane on which you move."
[Note.--The exact order is not stated, for there are many intermediate
links connecting the Simiam, with the Lemurs and Troglodytes,-or with
that portion of the genus of the Quadrumana comp  ng The Gorilla,
higher Orangs, Nschiegos and Chimpanzees ; yet the chain itself is
generally speaking, quite correct.]
Thus is completed the outlines of the history of
a- human    soul.   Let us return    to  the awakening..
* * * * * * I now realized that' the Soul
and Spirit-worlds were far different from  each other,
Charleston, South Carolina, was delivered, not only of what looked-
like a mnonkey-but which was a monkey' out and out. .The woman
had never seen a monkey in her life, so that this was not a case of
meremother-marking, but gestation was interrupted in some respects in
some way, at about the nineteenth day after conception, while it went
on-normally in other respects. An additional proof of the truth of this
development theory is seen in the fact that ordinary parents often-
produce extraordinary geniuses; thus another negro woman of the.
same city produced a boy by a black and ignorant father who is to-day'
one of'the most extraordinary musical geniuses the world ever saw.
PUB.

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.       49

for the former is WITHIN, but the latter, like the
planetary worlds, is WITHOUT ;-not in the sense, of in
' the house and out of the house, but rather in the sense
of in the bed and in a dream,-not exactly, but ana-
logous. The fact is, mankind, albeit many know it not,
are living upon the confines, at least, if not occasionally
full residents of two or three worlds at-the same time-
worlds which impinge upon, and interlace each other,
just as -fine spirit contacts rough matter ; and yet,
while this fact is so, it happens likewise that in many
respects these worlds are as wide apart, and distant
from each other, as is Pleiades from Mazaroth, or distant
sun from twinkling planet ; for the reason that states,
not miles, separate the denizens of either. Those whose
being is in accord with the vast Harmonead, move alike
upon the shores of each sphere of being, whence they
can catch the echoes and foot-falls of the pilgrims on
both banks. Most people are familiar with the stereo-
typed assertion that 'Man is a microcosm-a universe
in miniature,' than which nothing can be more correct
and true. The body is not the man ; neither is the
nerve-center of his brain that which constitutes his
personality, any more ,than the central spiritual sun
around which all material systems revolve, is the
supreme God himself ; for even as Deity dwells within
the centralia of that august luminary, so also does the
very man himself hold his court within the bosom of
that magic sphere which exists within his skull. In
the subjoined description of the student,--(see part two
of this volume) the sentient and conscious point is
spoken of under the similitude and figure of a fiery globe.
SThe likeness is imperfect in some respects, for not only
3


50          DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.E                                         S

is man-a world within himself, but he is an entire sys-
tem of worlds, each one of which is perfect of its order,
full and complete. God is at once a center, a Republic
and a King. So also is man in a finite degree. His
faculties may be said to constitute the distinct members
or States or nations of the great confederation, where-
of the supreme Ego is sovereign Lord and President,-
one, however, who can, if it so elect, assume and wield
despotic power over all within the great domain. So
far can this power be carried and exerted, that pain"
may be overcome, and even death itself be kept at bay.
The WILL is Lord of man's accidents and incidents, and
if his reason guide it well, nothing can withstand its
force.
As stated previously, all foregone thoughts and deeds"
of mine became objectified in my new sphere, or on
what I can find no descriptive term, good as that
of Memorama, for such it truely was,-and the fact of
its existence at all ought to become a significant one to
mortals, for even as their deeds and thoughts shall be
on earth, even so will be the delights or agonies conse-
quent upon their inspection of these memory tables on
the other shore, whither all must go, whether the voy-
age be agreeable or not. Memory constitutes the basis
of man's heaven or his hell. On it is founded the su-
perstructure of his sorrows or his joys, and woe be to
whomsoever shall read, and reading, neglect the caution
here imparted. I give it in all love, for I know its im-
mense importance.
My thoughts and actions-even the minutest, passed
before me, across the polished surface of my enclosing
sphere, standing out in bold relief. The pictures in-

cessantly altered their. aspect, or gave place to new
ones, but there was something which did not change,
but on the contrary seemed to gather weight and dura-
bility all the while. This was the attention point,--
the focalization of all the soul's observant powers, nor
did it undergo any permutation whatever. I stood, as
previously intimated, in the center of a crystaline
sphere. ' It was translucent, but not transparent. No-
thing beyond its glory-tinted Walls was discernible, but
all within it stood revealed in grand and cryptic light,
which, as already observed, appeared to proceed from
my own head. ,The vertical diameter of this sphere
was not more than fifty yards, its horizontal one some-
what more,-for its form was slightly ellipsoidal: Its
floor was as a polished -mirror, reflecting not only my
own image, but those of all things else within its beau-
tiful walls. In this mirror-like surface I beheld my
person and features most distinctly; and it was quite
a matter of surprise to discover that I was, without the
slightest effort on my part, completely and beautifully
clothed in garments of a. fashion and style which, of
all others, I should have selected, had opportunity for
so doing been presented. -Here is a new mystery of
the Soul-world which may well engage the attention of
Psychologians.- Depending from my neck and shoulders
was a long and flowing robe, apparently seamless, and
woven of lightest gossamer.  The fore-arms and left
shoulder joint were bare, and I noticed that they, as
well as my hands, had lost the sickly caste, and shrunk-
en, shrivelled appearance formerly characterizing them.
Now, to my great delight, they were fair, plump, andof
the most dazzling and voluptuous mould' and propor-

jp

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.       51


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.       53

tions. As I made this happy discovery; there flashed
across me something of the deeper meanings slumber-
ing beneath the phrases "love, loving, and lovely ;"
and I could comprehend why one person should become
so en rapport, so obsessed with, and possessed and ab-
sorbed by another, as to lose not only all self-control,,
but self altogether. I could now understand why the
most loving must ever remain apart, even in the most
interior communion on earth,-until there, are no dull
senses to be bridged, and understand the amazing differ-
ence between a love that seeks its solace through sense,
and that which brings souls together. While people,
are enwrapped in flesh and blood, love is often obliged
to express itself in modes distasteful to its higher nature,
and unworthy of itself. Not so in the Soul-world; for
there the very joy (magnetic, if you please,) which one
lover feels in the mere presence of the other, reaches a
point of fullness, completion and intensity that mere
nervous filaments are incapable of conveying, mere ner-
vous exhalations can never give. No body is capable
either of giving or receiving, even with the strongest
efforts of will, even a foretaste of the joys which the
soul, freed therefrom, can and does spontaneously. The
keenest Sybarite,-the finest-nerved voluptuary can
have no adequate conception, either of the nature or,
the depth of the joy imparted mutually by two loving
souls in the higher worlds. Love, I have said, I knew
but little of, and cared less for, previous to my de-
parture ; but now, as I gazed upon myself, and realized
for ;what I was intended, there arose a something with-
in assuring me of my boundless-limitless capacity to
and for love. And then the gentle hint-of Nellie came

back, and had the mate, assigned me then appeared, I
do not think'he would have met a very cold reception.
Thereafter all this ended as God decreed it should-
rightly.
Around my waist there was a zone or belt of blue;
which kept the fronts of my open robe together,
and then fell floorward in two knotted tassels on the
left side. The throat and upper portions of my bosom
were covered with what bore the appearance of finest
lace, whiter than the driven snow. The hair hung in
luxuriant-curl-tresses adown my back and cheeks, which
latter, as disclosed by the floor-mirror, were no longer
sunken, sallow or emaciated in the least degree; on
the contrary they were round, full, white, fair as the
cheeks of daylight, and suffused with the softest and
most delicate tints of the newly-opened blossom of the
peach tree. The teeth !--I had teeth--were ivory-
hued, large and even. The eyes were larger than they'
had ever seemed before ; their lashes were long, dark
and drooping; and they were shaded by a brow far
more delicate and finely pencilled than they ever were
on earth. My stature was a trifle less,. apparently,
than when incarnated, and there was a health, vigor,
and' freshness, which reminded me of the early days,
ere woman's estateiiad come with all its cares and
toils, its miseries and deep griefs. About my head there
was a. shining band, like unto 'the spirit of  sver
coronet, pearl and diamond frosted, and flashkigSack
the light from a thousand jeweled points. In the center
of this zone was a triangle of ruby hue, surmounted
with the-cypher " R," and in its center was a crystalige
globe, winged, and bearing the motto, "TRY."

DEALINGS WITH . THE DEAD,.


54         DEALINGS- WITE? THE DEAD,

Curiosity is the soul of advancement ; it is a female
element almost exclusively; and though all else forsake
wojnan, curiosity never will, either on earth or any-
where else. It prompted me to the investigations
above recounted, and to others which followed hard
thereon. I wondered how my feet and ankles looked /
The desire was no sooner formed than gratified. The
latter were encased in proper attire, but the former
not quite so, for instead of a shoe, as I expected to find,
there was only a sort of sandal,-a mere sole, light
and graceful, fitting perfectly,' and seemingly kept in
place by narrow red bands, which were laced to the
ankles and over the foot and instep. -The bands them-
selves seemed to be of a material no coarser than cords
of braided light. Such, in brief, were the revealments
of the mirror. "Mirror !" exclaims the reader, "why
mirrors are adapted only to solar light, and that which
proceeds from material combustion. They reflect from
- their polished surfaces, according to the well-known
laws of optics, which laws cannot possibly obtain of
the strange world of which you were then an occupant,
-which realm lies above and beyond the sphere of
their action or influence ; how then could you see the
image of yourself ? "  Again: "  If the first suit of
apparel in which you found yourself after death, were
only mere appearances, of what nature or character
were these last? If the spirit of a human being is,
as we are led to infer from your narrative, in nowise
physical; or even hyper-physical, as the Spiritualists
assert-and they claim to know all about the matter,
-if it is only a phantasmal projection from the vERY
sout,-an out-attachment of the supreme self, how do

you reconcile your statements concerning 'blue-caste
hands, wrinkled epidermis, shrivelled appearance,' and
so on, with your subsequent assertions that they after-
wards became fair, plump and beautiful? Do. shadows
grow? Do phantasms avail themselves of the law of
increment ? Please explain ; clear up, elucidate 1"
REPLY : These are the very points concerning which
the people need light ; for assuredly that which they
have heretofore received, instead of illumining the sub-
jects under consideration, have tended directly to in-
crease the already dense obscurity, and only rendered
the darkness still more palpable and dense. In order
to a clear- conception of what lies before us, it will be
well to remind each other that both soul and body act
under the impetus of two -distinct codes of law : the
one volitional, the other mechanical, and therefore in-
voluntary. An illustration of both is seen in the case
of a man, who either reading a book or earnestly con-
versing s he moves alopg, takes no notice whatever of
passing p sons or things, and yet pursues the direct
path, nor oice misses his way.. Both laws are operating
simultaneously. The bodily, powers are under the same
government ; for the heart beats, digestion proceeds,
and all the functions of the physical economy are
carried on by a power lying altogether back of will.
There is also another 'law, which from voluntary, at
length comes to manifest itself altogether involuntarily.
I refer to the law of Habit. Now that this law governs
both soul and body is proved by a simple reference to
_ the swearing man, who also drinks liquor, chews to-
bacco, falls asleep at a given hour and wakes up at an-
other. Whosoever hums a tune often, will at length

DEALINGS WITH THE IIEAD.     55


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.       57

be haunted by it, and cannot rid himself. of the tor-
menting tune-fiend by even the most strenuous resolve and
effort to do so. It, like a fever, must, and will run its
course. .We also habituate ourselves to certain forms
of expression, and ideal associations. Thus much by
way of preface.
Now it was the involuntary obedience of my. soul to
the Habit-law, that caused it to array itself in the sem-
blance of the old and well-remembered dress.   The
law of the association of ideas, gave the 'blue caste,'
the wrinkles and the emaciation which so surprised me.
Presently, however, I passed under the operation of
higher laws of nature, and more interior ones of my
own immortal soul. One of the first, and most im-
portant of these last, is the law of Vastation-where-
by the soul throws off the old loves, preparatory to
entering upon new ones. Its first involuntary act, in
the second, as in the first case, was to clothe itself ;
but no longedsubject to the old law of association, and
coming under a new one, it rejected the- things of
memory, and assumed the garb corresponding to its
new-born loves,-all in conformity to a law within it-
self. [In dreams, the garb and surroundings are
typical' or -symbolic of mental, moral and,, esthetic
states: therefore it is possible to construct an exact
science of dream-interpretation.] And the drapery as-
sumed was not merely the 'result of caprice or an in-
voluntary fantastic taste, pride or vainness, but was
the legitimate and orderly result of the triple law,
whose elements are fitness, expression, and correspond-
ence.  The white drapery symbolized, if not my ab-
solute purity, at least my aspirations thitherward,-

(and this explains why all men and women array their
breasts in white bosoms, frills and laces.) The bandeau,
the zone, girdle, jewels, all symbolized an affection, as-
piration or quality of the inner being ; and as these
latter change, so also do the former. The law is im-
perative, because it is a thing of the soul itself, whose
external manifestations invariably-in the soul-world---
represent its inward states : moral, religious and in-
tellectual.
In the light of this explanation, therefore, no one
need marvel at the radical changes in my personal ap-
pearance. We shall throw much more light on the
general subject when next we treat of the mysteries of
being. The present undertaking being merely pre-
fatory, as a matter of course, confines us to the mere
superficialities of a realm whose vastness exceeds all
human conception. In reference to the wrinkles of my
hands, and their sudden disappearance, enough has been
said ; yet for the information of whoso chooses to profit
by it, I will merely add here, that as Time only affects
man in his outward relations, it cannot, of course, bring
wrinkles on his features, for souls do not grow old by
years; albeit they do grow old by experiences,-without
reference to duration, but only as to depth and intensity.
A. single weekof mental agony yill ripen a soul far
more than would fifty centuries of clock-beats, passed
free from the sorrows aforesaid.
Let it not be forgotten that there are two distinct
and dissimilar worlds beyond the grave, nor that.I had
rapidly crossed from the first to the second stage of my
transmundane existence. One of these is the mere ex-
. ternal world of. Spirits, wherein a life, analogous to

56        DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.


58         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

that of earth is for a period led by the inhabitants
thereof. 'The other is that, concerning the mysteries
whereof, I am now treating.
Millions of beings there are who, although disrobed
of fleshly garments, are yet pilgrims in search of the
soul-world. The latter is divine and interior, the
former natural and merely Spiritual. A man on earth
may gaze on the surface of a picture, or mechanically
read a book, and yet find nothing therein ; whereas
either of these may lead another person not only into
their own beauty-depths, and into the soul of the painter
or the author.; but they may serve as clues which his
soul-may seize on and follow into realms never even
imagined to exist by the poet-painter, or the painter-
poet. So also the mere mortuary fact by no means
serves as a free ticket or pass into the grand Temple,
at the mere vestibule of which grim Death lands those
who take passage in the phantom shallop,,whereof him-
self is pilot and steersman. The mere post mortem exist-
ence does not necessarily entitle one to all the privileges
of the Temple, nor make one a resident of,- or even
spectator of the worlds of Soul. True, there will occur
a change in all, whereby they can pass the mystic ferry ;
but this change must be worked out from within, and
in no wise depend upon outside influences,; it must be
volitional, not mechanical. The ferriage must be paid
in well-wishing and better doing.. The life beyond is
a real one, compared to which that of earth is a mere
shadow, and the form of Government is an isonomous
one ; equal rights, equal laws, impartial justice, ad-
ministered, not by external agents of an outward power,
but by the very constitutional delegates from the secret

soul itself; for no justice is so very just as that which
each soul, by virtue of its own. nature, administers to
itself, and through which its lower becomes subordinated
to its higher and nobler faculties, qualities and powers.
And this is the law that keeps many a one from enter-
ing the sacred penetralia until properly disciplined
and prepared for the change.
I wondered at first why these truths were not more
.generally known and appreciated by the people, who,
because they have an intellectual perception of the fact
of immortality, call themselves "Spiritualists ; " but as
the veil was slowly drawn away, and I saw that much
that had to ime appeared real, proved now to be but
seeming.; there was no more marveling. There was,
still is, and for a long time will be, four sorts of Spirit-
ualism in the world : First,' a mere bodily sensitiveness,
nervous acuteness, and susceptibility to magnetic
emanations and impressions,-out of which arises a
great deal of the stagnant filth and social corruptions so
prevalent,-the debaucheries and license, and great evils
which pain so greatly the hearts of true men and wo-
men. Second, a Spiritualism of the brain alone ;-a
cerebral quickening,-a hot-house ripening of faculty,
which gives rise to much talking, and sometimes leads
to the discovery of many of the elements of'the great
principia underlying the Harmonead, and prophecies
the good time that is yet to be. Third, "compact"
Spiritualism, or that wherein and whereby a certain
class of sensitives, be they male or female, become the
dupes of their own folly, and the victims of disembodied
maniacs, lunatics and self-deluded denizens of the middle
state-Spirits who wander on the outskirts of three

DEALINGS -WTTg THE DEAD.     59

'


60        'DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

worlds, without a permanent resting-place in either.
These have been useful, however, inasmuch as they have
called, and even compelled attention to phenomena
which they produce, and which cannot be explained
away, nor accounted for, save by admitting two things ;
first, that immortality is a fixed fact ; and second, that
it is possible to bridge the. hitherto impassable chasm
which divides earth from regions which lie beyond.
The fourth kind, and truest and best, indeed that which
only is truely spiritual, is the growing up into a spiritual-
ized, out of the merely physical selfhood ; and this
growth of soul necessarily admits the subject of it into
the mysteries of being, precisely in accordance with the
degree of the person's own unfolding. It is the off-
spring of good resolutions, well and faithfully carried
out ; ignores pride, talk, lust, hatred, envy, malice, slan-
der, and all else which characterizes the other three
sorts. Immortality is to such, not an acquired, but an
intuitive fact. Such Spiritualists are good, moral, hu-
mane, charitable, merciful, kind and true ; religious,
Christian in deed, as well as name ; and such as these
are never pulling down, but ever building up the Good,
the Beautiful, and the True ; and when such an one dies,
his or her stay in the Middle.State is very short, for
they have paid their ferriage, and are speedily intro-
mitted to the mysteries and grandeurs of the world of
Soul.
Such an one is unfolded ; and by this term is not
meant that state to which a man arrives after packing
the contents of two or three libraries on the shelves of
his memory ; by that term is not meant the condition
of one who has arrived at honor and distinction by dint

of mere acquaintance with learned authorities, and the
accumulation and piling up of knowledge of various
common and popular sorts ; for it frequently happens
that men and women, who are very ignorant of all
these things,--and who, so far as they are concerned,
are not "progressed " at all, prove on -trial to be far
more "unfolded" than thousands of those who have
grown gray in the service of Letters, and who have,
by persistent assiduity succeeded in transforming them-
selves from human beings into locomotive encyclopedias
-splendid to look at, interesting to dine with and talk
to-but cold, unheartful encyclopedias after all. Edu-
cation is often a mere mechanical mastery of useless
abstrusities,-coins, which on the social counters jingle
well,-but which are not over and above current in the
far-off worlds,-where a boor's earnest prayer weighs
far more than the ornate, rhapsodical orisons of scores
of learned pedants, who, to judge them by their lan-
guage, take God to be a school committee, rather than
a loving, tender Parent.
Thus I found true,-what had previously been surmised,
that a person may know but little,-yet approach much
nearer the Divine, than one who has more brain furni-
ture, with a great deal less heart.
It was revealed to my understanding that the great
- law of Vastation, by whose operation the monad de-
veloped moss, threw it off, and brought forth something
better and higher, until at last the conscious pointr-the
truly human degree-was, after the lapEe of, ages,
reached, did not cease its functions even after the death
of the body, albeit its mode .of action was somewhat
changed and modified ; for now it was observed by me,

DEALINGS WIPPI THE DEAD.     61


62         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

that while the soul may, both prior and subsequent to
death, draw in .knowledge from without-inspiration,
progression, procession-it may alsoexpand from within,
and enter consecutively domain after domain in the
Soul-deeps of its almost infinite being. .This is aspira-
tion, unfolding-development ; and ever will the im-
mense, the immortal thing, continue to vastate the bad,
the ill,; imperfect and untrue, so long as any of such
remains to be thrown off, as it has been doing ever since
the clock, of.Time struck one upon the bell on Eternity's
tower ! It will continue the process until that tower
itself shall topple and fall with hoary ageI
The figure of an onion, though a homely, is neverthe-
less a good one, inasmuch as it offers a familiar illustra-
tion of the monad ; for, first, there is the two or three
external skins, after which comes layer after layer, until
at last we find a center, which center contains an invisi-
ble, because a spiritual point, which constitutes the
germ or seed-principle, containing, latent in its bosom,
countless acres of onions, that are and are not, at the
same time-fields of plenty, seeds of mighty harvests,
which only need the necessary conditions to prove their
power and develop their capacities.
Philosophers have long sought, with their crude plum-
mets, to sound the bottomless abysses of man's immortal
soul. Spiritualists, in their turn; have tried' to do the
same-aye ! and loudly boasted of their success. Suc-
cess, forsooth ! Why their lead, even when all the line
attached thereto was well run out, rested, on one or
more of [the very 'topmost ledges of the unfathoma-
ble and vast profound-their weights only lodged on
the upper crags of one or more of the tiniest moun-

tains, whose heads are upreared from the floor of the
great ocean Soul. Proclaiming man to be a world in
miniature, they have, in their treatment of him and his,
not only belied and stultified themselves, but have
shown that, after all, ho was to be classed with "all
other worms of the dust"-a semi-voluntary automa-
ton--a skip-jack, to be coaxed, wheedled and driven,
just as circumstances might dictate and decree. Theo-
retically, to them, he is a God ; practically, a mere ma-
chine, whose office and function it is to eat, drink, be
merry, sleep, wake up, labor, and beget his kind-whose
destiny, in turn, it is to repeat the same identical round,
with perhaps a few trifling and unimportant varia-
tions-totally forgetful or unconscious of the fact, that
when pronouncing him to be a microcosm, they were
uttering a sentence brimfull of God's everlasting truth.
Philosophers have a bad habit of saying one thing and
meaning another ; for while loudly declaring, they never
yet have fairly believed, that howsoever vast the ui-
verses without may be, yet all and each of them grow
diminutive and contracted when compared with those
that exist within the Soul. Nay, they have never real-
ized that all that has a being outside of man is met, mas-
tered and overmatched by an infinite universe from
within!/
Crime ! folly !-what are they.? Philosopher, an-
swer thou me! "They are, they are-they are-well,
I can hardly tell -what they really are." I will tell
you: these things frequently mark the career of the
'Progressed' man-never that of the developed or un-
folded one-and' in all cases are either .the result of
impulse, Spirit-obsession, or of a bad calculation. When

DEALINGS WITH THE, DEAD.


64         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

nations merely 'Progress,' every jail-yard has its gib-'
bet ; when the people are 'Unfolded,' temples for God-
worship take their places. Philosophers try to explain
away all crime and evil, knowing it to be real ; yet at
the same time treat the doers of ill-deeds as if they were
not fitter subjects for soul-hospitals than for thumb-
screws and disgrace. They forget that society gains
nothing by making a man think less of himself ! In-
stead of pursuing really reformatory methods with those
who are vicious or whose souls are sick, they have
favored the policy of revenge and atonement, and
adopted the lex talionis instead of the lex jutitice-
as Common Sense; if nothing else, would 'ever seem to
dictate, counsel, and approve.
The Social Harmonead is yet to be. Discord rules
the age. The human soul is unbalanced. Equilibrium
and Virtue come together. By-and-by, Philosophers
will realize this truth. Men who gaze intently on the
wonderful perfection of the outer Harmonead, and
realize its -vast excellence, constantly fail to recognize
the fact that the inner world of man would be the same
were but Charity and kindly dealing, in thought as well
as act, to take precedence of Suspicion and Punishment.
As yet the world is but a baby-realm. There are no
real saints therein at present, for the reason that the
currents of the time are not adapted to the floating of
that species of craft ; nor will the social gardens pro-
duce that sort of fruit until it is well subsoiled by char-
ity plows and common sense. At present, probably but
few men or women live on earth, no matter how abste-
mious they may be, nor how correct and staid their de-
portment, but in whose hearts lurk many a thistle seed,

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.           65
ready to spring up and pester the world whenever bad
conditions shall call them into active life ; nor can there
be a pure saint, until every one of these seeds shall be
deprived of life. Then, when this is done, no matter
what the soil may be, it can produce none but beauty-
laden forms of'excellence. When the great truth is
made apparent to the people, that the greatest sin a
person can possibly commit-taking the future as well
as the present into the account-is the sin against him
or herself, society. will rapidly purge itself of wrong,
and there will be fewer bad memories to haunt and ter-
rify them afterlife's troublous drama shall end, and far
fewer leaden-hued pictures be reflected from the mirror-
floors of the world of Soul.
Wealth, the possession of riches, is, on earth and in
all human society, the universal passport to honor and
distinction. This is one of the fallacies of man, and the
greatest ; but the good deeds done to the neighbor and,
the self are hereafter changed into a kind of coin read-
ily current in the lands beyond the tomb.
i Now no one thing yet unaccomplished is more certain
to come to pass, than that this lesson will yet be learned
by the people. When it is mastered, there will be far
less strife for the honors and emoluments of office, and
the universal cry will be, 'Whom can we get, who shall
.we persuade to be our Ruler, President, or King ?'
'Who can we employ to fill those offices ?' instead of
'Vote for me !' as now. Mankind on earth do not, as,
we of the Soul-world, seek for joys that are pure, and
purely human, too ; they do not, as we, drink from cha-
lices at whose bottom no dregs are found after-the ruby
wine has been sipped. Alas, no ! but, instead, they


66         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

seek for such joys as are absolutely sure to leave a sting
behind, and Repentance, Agony and Remorse are the
terrible triplet they are obliged to ,nurse, for 0 how
long! This is moral and spiritual suicide-so far as
super-mundane joys are concerned-suicide, slow but
sure ; and such souls, on entering the Middle State, are
poor, and thin, and lean, and powerless, for deeds or
thoughts either good or great ; and memory reflects
back but few, if any pleasant images, but, in lieu there-
of, presents for inspection and as food for contempla-
tion, an array of barren mountains, fierce whirlpools,
crags toppling over into dreadful darkness, beetling
cliffs, from whose bald summits the vulture and the
night-owl shriek and scream. No pleasant pasture lands
begem  the picture--no sweetly-singing rivers of de-
light-but only things of wierdness, rage and fury, set as
centers into pictures representing boisterous and tem-
pestuous seas, cold,- and dreary ice-islands, or desert
sands which swallow up the sunshine, the moisture and
the rain, but. never smile with a single green or lovely
thing. These are symbols and similes of the Soul's
states, and are the legitimate and inevitable out-crea-
tions of itself; but, thank God! not of its inner deeps,
else the universe might well run mad, and every living
thing curse its God and-die. True it is that, none of
these frightful things are the results of the natural and
unbiassed choice of any human creature, yet they are
none the less real in the second stage of existence, for
the reason that Destiny forever compels a man to be
himself. Sooner, or later he-will bring himself volun-
tarily to acknowledge, bow, and bend before it ; and
the instant that he does so, the grand Vastatory law

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.°67
comes into play, and he slowly emerges from Hell, and
takes the road to Heaven!
So far in human history on the'earth, the Devil has
proved a tailure-utter, total and complete. Not so
Evil. This latter works out its mission well, even if it
does no more than to convince man that his only, best
and truest friends are himself and the Infinite God
whose child he is.
In the higher realms, to which mankind is destined,
his actions are never the result of an applied force from
outside himself; but when voluntarily submitting to
the pressure from within, he is irresistibly led from bad
to better, and from better tp BEST. Reaching this
point, h no logger rebels-ndt against God, but against
himself--his higher, nobler, better nature-but, giving
up all of mere self, begins to desire nothing so much as
to love and be loved, to serve God and minister unto
others' good-and at last finds himself standing in the
Door of the Dawn, having emerged 'from the Hades of
his own and others' making, and stepped into his house
not made with hands, eternal in the Heavens-house-
spheres such as I have partially described, prepared r,
and in, and of him, from the foundations of the Ages-
houses which are indeed 'builded upon very pleasant
spots, on sunny glades and love-tinted hillocks on God's
.Eternal Domain-houses, too, which men often refuse to
enter and occupy till after the lapse of years of misery
spent in the horrid caves and unsightly huts dug and
builded' by themselves.
All these things flashed in upon my soul, as I stood
gazing into the mirror on the floor, and upon the-vivo-
graphs of Memory gliding by upon the walls, in which


68         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.       69

every event of my life, no matter how trivial, was
clearly represented. Not a good thought or deed, no
matter how private-not a single sin, no matter how
venial--but was there reproduced for my inspection and
instruction--moving, with all their foregone accessories,
across the walls of that magic globe. They were living
icons, perfect rescripts, of all foredeeds, thoughts, ac-
tions----and transcripts, all too faithful, of the volumes
of my memory. Soon all this passed along----the last
scene being that of my death within the chamber of the
house upon the hill. Scarcely had it vanished, whither
I knew not, than a blank section moved across.'the line
of vision, almost instantly succeeded by a Phantorama
still more wondrous and imposing. Instead of repre-
senting myself alone, this second picture revealed the
results, both direct and indirect, of my personal influ-
ence upon others, whether exerted in a domestic, social,
or professional capacity. I could not help being par-
ticularly struck with- one tableau, which, as it embodies
a moral lesson, I will here stop to briefly describe:
I saw myself in the act of warm disputation with a
friend, on a subject well calculated to elici( the best
thought of the best thinker. I had the right of the
argument, and this was so apparent that my friend with
whom I was arguing lost temper. At the time of the
occurrence, I took but little note of the matter, not
deeming it a subject of very great importance. Now,
however, I saw, what surprised 'me greatly, that this
mental excitement had reacted physically, and, in rin-
ning its course, brought on a slight inflammation of the
brain-a sort of slow but positive fever, which, while
not confining the patient, yet affected both soul and

body to a great extent, and so modified the cerebral
constituents, that the immortal soul therein dwelling
for a season, could not thereafter manifest itself as for-
merly. I now realized that chemistry, in the higher
sense, was an efficient force in the human mental, as
well as in the material economy----that changes in the
physical cells of the, brain could be made by intellectual
excitations, and that these in a great measure affect
the mental and, psychical operations, even to the extent
of a complete bouleversement. In consequence of the
change effected in the individual alluded to, projects
of various kinds, previously determined on, had to be -
given up-;--for which reason the entire current of a life
was turned completely ; nor is it for me to say whether
greater good or ill will be the ultimate or final rcesult----
for the reason that as yet I can neither see the origin
nor end. These are only known bj the Infinite One
above us and beyond. Suffice it, therefore, to observe,,
that had I known what weight inhered in words, whether
lightly, harshly or kindly spoken, especially to the sen-
sitive and susceptible natures of many of earth's pil-
grims, never would I have uttered a syllable without
well weighing the possible consequences thereof ; espe-
cially would I have kept back all which bore the slight-
est resemblance to heat or anger. '0, what a wondrous
thing is a human soul ! Until now it was not clear to
me that, by virtue of both a static and dynamic law of
the universe, human happiness is derivative, and ever
depends upon the amount and kind bestowed-upon or
imparted to another. The law is dual, that is, it works
both ways ; for even as a man or woman finds joy in
the act of causing or of bringing joy to others, so also


70         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

the misery and woe which A may cause B, C, D and
E to feel or undergo, not only reacts upon A by force
and virtue of the great Sympathia, but it is utterly im-
possible for A to be happy, so long as the least trace of
his or her action mauvaise remains with B, C, D, E, F
and G. Nor is this all ; for if these last persons act
badly toward H, I, J and K, said actions being the
legitimate result of A's, originally, upon B, C, D, E, F
and G, then A cannot escape the consequences, no mat-
ter how distant or in whatever corner of God's universe
he may be, or in whatever crevice of the great creation
:he may seek to hide. A wave or ray of agony from B,
C, and-the rest of the alphabet, will finally reach him!
A lash from the great whip of conscience or remorse
will fall on him, when rocks and mountains, though
heart-implored, refuse to. Until tie law of compensa-.
tion is satisfied, he shall never fail to hear, peeling into
his soul from the lacerated hearts of others, the terrific
sentence: 'Thou art the man ! thou hast done it ! Pay
what thou owest !' If the reflections shall prove to
have been good instead -of evil, then the words which
shall be heard will be: 'Even as thou hast done it unto
the least of these, my servants, thou hast done it unto
me. Well done, thou good and faithful servant ! enter
thou into the joy of thy Lord ! Take up thine abode in
the mansions of bliss, prepared from the foundations of
the world!' The coin of heaven is ever stamped with
the seal of a person's deeds, be they good or evil.
This soul-law is well illustrated by an anecdote which
I remember to have heard related prior to my entrance
into the wonderful realm, whereof I now found myself

a denizen. The story was related by a male friend.
Said he:
",Many years ago, when a mere lad of ten or a dozen
years, I lived in the Metropolis of America, where also
I was born. One day several lads of us were playing
at ball in a street then called 'Chapel,' but since known
as West Broadway. In throwing the toy at one of my
playmates, it missed him, and crashed through the win-
dow of a shoe-mender's shop, the proprietor of which be-
came greatly enraged, and in a paroxysm of fury not
only cursed and swore most dreadfully at us, but also
seized the offending ball, and threw it on his burning
grate ; we, poor mourners, in the mean while looking
down into the fiery grave of all our sport. Tears, ex-
postulations, and entreaties were all so much wasted
breath, and proved utterly unavailing. The ball, un-
fortunate ball, was irrevocably doomed to an igneous
tomb; nor could all our prayers, joined as they were,
to abundant offers on our part, and that of several
pitying on-lookers, to doubly pay the cost of the de-
molished glass, soften the obdurate heart of the revenge-
ful cobbler in the least degree. Burn that ball he swore
to ; utterly consume it he vowed to, and most religiously
he kept his promise.
The ball was burned, but as the smoke of its' sub-
stance,-the remains of two worn-out stockings and
an india-rubber shoe,-and of our torment, went- up
towards heaven, there accompanied it a most dire threat
of vengeance from out my boyish heart,-proud, indig-
nant little human heart, which then, for the first time,
swelled almost to bursting with vindictiveness and rage.
In my paroxysm of fury I swore a vendetta more fierce

N)

DEALINGS PITH THE DEAD.      71


DEALINGS WITH. THE DEAD.

and terrible than that of the Orsini against their mortal
foes, the Borgias of sunny Italia. I resolved to kill,
slay, totally extinguish the whole race of cobblers,
but that one in particular. His doom was, to be billed,
slain, cut to pieces, remorselessly and cruelly murder-
ed, after which his soul' was to be .eternally damned,
roasted, stewed, broiled and grilled for evermore, upon
the gridirons of the infernal'pit-all for burning a six-
penny ball ! For ten long days and nights I pondered
on the subject, and sought to contrive means whereby
to carry out my philanthropic design. Having heard,
and read of battles, bloodshed and gory fields of human
slaughter, wherein he who did the most murder was
the greatest hero ; having heard and read of human
butchers and butchery, my heart had turned from the
one, and I shuddered at the picture of the other. Now
however, all these images of horror returned. I still
hated them, but of all others, it seemed to me that that
ball-burning shoe-mender was the most atrocious fiend
that ever trod the earth. In my boyish frenzy I vowed
he was an ogre, giant, demon, and all else that was
horrible and bad, to rid the earth of whom would be
doing an especial and particular favor to God, nature
and human kind. Amidst all the scourges and pests
who had ever trod the earth from Ghengis Khan to
Lord Jeffries, not one loomed up who was half so cri-
minal, half so deserving of the intensest scorn and
maledictions of the human race, as was that unfortunate
and guilty cobbler. We resolved that he must die,
and die by powder and fire; but in consequence of tl4
fact, that they explosive grains were rather unpopular
just then, while both guns and pistols, fire-crackers,

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.           73
double-headers, and torpedoes, being strictly prohibited
by-the constable round the corner,--we concluded to
defer the execution of the malefactor till the ensuing
Fourth of July, then a matter of some eight months dis-
tant. But at last, it came. Our revenge had slept,
but was by no means extinguished. The' ogre dwelt in
the same place still. The hour for dire retribution
drew fearfully near-and at length arrived. The cob-
bler's doom was sealed. Our maleficent congress-.-
boys, all under twelve-had resolved that he must die,
then or never, so far as we were concerned. Pistols
and powder being still as scarce as ever, we assailed
the enemy with a large string of ignited Chinese crack-
ers, in lieu of guns and bullets-articles de campaign--
not procurable, owing to the limited resources of our
combined exchequer.
We suffered a.defeat--a rout, total and complete-
nor did one of us escape what the cobbler calle  a
welting,' for our shoulders tingled many an ho  there-
after from the application of a strip of' leath , wielded
by the stalwart right arm of the vindictive m n. Now
it so happened that, nearly opposite the scene of this
farce, there stood a tall flag-staff-' Tom Riley's Fifth
Ward liberty pole' it was called-and with this pole is
associated, not only the moral of my story, but also one
of the most singular experiences ever undergone by a
human soul, while incarnated in a ta'bernacle.of flesh
and blood, nerve and sinew, muscle and matter. After
mutually smarting from the application of the cobbler's
welt,' we took counsel and refuge beneath the liberty
pole aforesaid ; and the last I remember of the affair is,
that, while gazing upon his triumphantly retreating
.4

/
1
t

p {
r
r"
f'
}4
i
Z
r}
1'
'F
t
i
y
L

k
f.
rr
r
C
w
Y


74          DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.'
figure, it struck me that the very quintessence of my
felicity on earth would be achieved could I have the
exquisite joy and unsurpassable pleasure of hanging
him to the weathercock on the summit of that flag-staff.
This' would be to me--to us, a very heavenly state in-
deed. 'And so I hung him, in fancy, to the north cor -
ner of the vane, enjoyed his imaginary struggles for a
while, and then went home. * * * * * *     Years
passed. My childhood's troubles were forgotten, and
man's estate had come, with all its griefs, cares and
strifes, and, from a student of revenge, I became one of
the science of Forgiveness. During one of these latter
years I became interested in the question, 'Has man a
death-surviving soul, or not?' and to the solution of this
great problem I bent the entire force and energy of my
mind, not hesitating to make all. sorts of experiments
that held out a hope or possibility of ny reaching a defi-
nite conclusion in regard to the subject. In pursuance
of this grand object I one day made an experiment
which, in some respects, was but too successful ; it was
not by means of drugs or potions, magnetism or spiritual
circles. At the end of one of these experiments I became
totally lost to the external world, its surroundings and
influences, and found myself in the world of Spirit-in the
midst of a vast and boundless Chaos, in which no sound
struck upon me save the rattling of the bones of a huge
and ghastly skeleton which swayed and swung to and
fro in the bleak air from the point of a vane on the top
of a vast pole, itself the very spectre of the one on which
mentally, I had hung my mortal foe.
Attracted irresistibly by the ominous sounds, I turned
my gaze toward it, when instantly the horrible, ghastly

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.       ,  75
thing became endowed with life and speech-ventri-
loquial power of speech-and it shrieked into my startled
ears these terrible, these ominous words : 'Wretch, look
upon the work of thy hands! Here didst thou place
me in the years now gone, and 'here have I hung and
swung ; here must I hang and swing during 'many and
many a coming age ! Gaze 'upon this cord-look on it ;
think of it--placed around my neck by you-by you!/
The flesh once with these bones which now rattle in
your ears - your ears !-has, by the elements, been
changed and dissolved into atoms-do you hear ?-Into
atoms finer than the flecks of light in a sunbeam-aye,
finer than the scintillations of yonder star, the point of
the buckle of Orion's belt ; and that star is an eye, and
it watches you-watches you; and, as you see, is the
only one in your horizon from zenith to nadir. That
star is the sentinel appointed by Him to see to it that
you escape not the doom-the doom! Ha ! ha! ho!
ho I Yes, it was I-I who burnt your ball, in revenge
for which you burnt your soul !--you burnt your soul /
Ha! ha! ho! ho ! And that soul must burn, and keep
on burning, in its own self-kindled flames, until their
fiery tongues shall have licked your joints-your joints,
your marrow-your very marrow, and keep licking
them until-'
'In God's game, what and when ?' I tremblingly in-
quired. And from between the chattering, clattering,
horrible jaws of that ghastly thing there hissed back
this answer : 'Atom by atom, the elements whereof my
body was formed shall once again cleave to these bare
bones; and, of their own volition, persuaded thereto by
. the spectacle of thy agony, softened by thy prayers,


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.       77

quit their gambols in space, their festive sport amongst
the star-beams, and re-arrange themselves into the origi- -
na  flesh, and blood, and nerve, and cartilage, and lymph,
and muscle, wherewith these bones were clothed once
upon a time in the dead years of an infinite Past I'
'But,' I cried, as the sweat of agony seemed to ooze even
out of my spectral cheek  ' there myst be some mistake.
The crime imputed was never committed by me. I
never slew you, nor any one else. True, I remember
you but I only'--' Wished and willed $o do it !' shrieked
my tormentor, frou thb gibbet ; 'and Whatever the soul
strongly wills is done, so iar as humazi responsibility is
concerned. You wished and willed me to be here ; and
here I am,by virtue of a great and mighty law. Hast thou
not heard the law laid down, by the sufferer of Calvary,
" Whoso looketh on a woman to lust after her, hath al-
ready committed adultery in his heart," and must pay the
penalty therefor ? And thinkest thou that this is the
only application of the great law of justice and com-
pensation ? Fool!1 know that thy crime is just as great
as if thou hadst, with thine own fingers, put the cord of
murder about my neck-about my neck ! The crime-
thought is as great as the crime-act. So it is with thee,
thou murderer! . Man is judged from the desires and
motives of his heart, whether hese be for good or ill,
and never from or for his act lone ; for the reason that
actions are often the result of an instantaneous impulse,
external pressure and circumstance ; but motives are
the creatures of will, the perfect offspring of desire 1'
I groaned in agony, an agony so great that it burst the
bonds of sleep, and I awoke from that which was not

all a dream.. It was an awful lesson, and taught me
how to become a wiser and a better man.'*
Such was the terrific experience of my friend, and I
feel that I need say no more on a point so well, so very.
forcibly illustrated.  *    *    *   '.   * *    *
Still the phantorarna glided past upon the wall, re-
Smealing  any a new mystery, and showing, me that
every human being is more or less responsible for the
result of personal influence exerted upon others.
Much rait and valuable knowledge flowed in while I
stood'there,in the center of the magic sphere, gazing on
the second vivorama, or living' picture, delineating the
results of my influence on others. Many and many a
strange scene passed athwart that globe's interior; and
I saw not only what the result of my influence had been,
but also what would have resulted had my action, in a
given instance, been different from what it really was.
Thus, I saw that had a cross word been spoken to a
child, whom I had endeavored to soothe by kindness,
that child would have been led to restrain himself, in-
stead of, as happened, taking advantage, and attributing
my complaisance to fear or something-akin thereto. I
saw, on that mystic scroll, the simulacrea of every per-
son I had ever known, and found that there, in the Soul-
world, people and things passed at their true, and by
no means at a7 fictitious value, like men and money do
on the earth. All mankind are divisible into seven
" This fearful apocalypticvision occurred on the night of. Feb. 3d,
1861, and was the means of inducing a train of thought and feel-
ing in the mind of the person who exporlenced it, which resulted in
his conversion from all sorts of philosophies to a belief in the pure
and sweet religion of, Christ the Saviour.-Pub.

,

76         DEALING WITH THE DEAD.


DEALINGS WITS THE DEAD.

great Orders, to each of which there are three sub-ar-
ders or classes. - I shall. speak of the Orders, not of the
classes. Many of those who, when living amongst
them, I had ranked with the highest, I now found, in
this place, where the secrets of all hearts are in very
deed laid open, really belonged to a far lower plane,
and, vice versa;-for many a civilizee and aristocrat was
now found to belong to the order of barbarians; whereas
not a few of those usually considered low were seen to
be better unfolded than thousands with loftier preten-
sions. Will it be credited, I even found the purest vir-
tue in one whose occupation was harlotry ! Once upon
a time, long before I passed through death's cold river,
I was walking through a beautiful grove, hard by,my
dwelling'-place, the house upon the hill. It was a gala
day, and hundreds had gathered there to celebrate the
noon of summer. Mirth; gaiety and sport ruled the
hour, and my soul was very glad.
Amongst the rest who had gathered there, were seve-
ral females, whose trade ws Sin, and who I .supposed
came 'there for their horrid purpose. How mistaken
was I! At that time it did not strike me that beings so
lost could have a pure thought, or in any way be tempted
to quit the hot pavements of the city to spend an hour
in God's great Temple, amidst its living columns-the
stately forest trees-without mischief and wrong-doing
in view. - I looked upon them, especially her with the
pale thin lips and large drooping eyelids, with utter
loathing. And thus I passed them by; years fled ;
never again did I think of them-much less that such
creatures could have aught of goodness in them, or feel
the need of God's sunshine, or of a bath in His pure

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.            9
ocean of fresh air. In life they' were forgotten, bu
now, as that mystic diorama moved forward, I saw that
very scene in the grove, reproduced in every minute
detail. There-sat the courtezans--there walked I past
them; and as she of the large blue eye looked up to-
ward me, with a mute demand for one sympathetic
glance-one kind word-only one kind word-.-I turned
heedlessly away ; and in doing so, I now saw that 'a
wrong thing had taken place; for had I spoken kindly,
they might have been saved from ruin, so far as the
world is concerned-utter and complete. Then, when
it was, alas ! too late, I saw how very easily I might
have melted and won the heart of the woman with the
thin pale cheek, and she would have become a minister-
ing spirit for good to many and many a lost and de-
graded one. I now saw her antecedents--a young girl,
a tender, loving daughter--fair, beautiful and sensitive
to the last degree' In her home misery reigned--no
work for the father, no bread for her little sisters, a
sick mother, and the storms of winter howling in the
streets, and the cold wind, sleet-laden, searching for
nooks and crannies, that it might freeze the little hands
and make the pale lips blue.
And then father took to drinking, and the pampered
servants of the rich lordlings of the great city drove
her with the large blue eye from their doors ; and she
was hungry, very hungry; and then thefoul fiend,
tempted her to accept a handful of silver from-a male !
for MEN never do such things-things so infernal, so
hideous, so ineffably mean--in exchange for her body I
* * * -* And so she sold it-again, and again, and
again I Great God ! she was obliged to sell it, or starve


80         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

in the midst of the granaries of Plenty 1 Starve her-
self ? Yes, but not only herself-that were easy-but
the mother who bore her, in agony-the father, whose
reason had for a time deserted its throne-the little
ones, clustering about the scanty fire in the little tin
stove ; these, all these, must eat or die! "The Poor-
house 1" A poor refuge indeed ! for although they may
have been better off therein, would she ? Doubtful!
for-well, never mind what ! She sold herself for
bread!
Presently work came, but the stain was on her. She
had run down a declivity, so steep that she could never
clamber up again, unless some friendly hand be stretched
forth to help her. And such hands are very scarce.
And now I saw what good might have been done, in
the days gone by, had I "only thought."
This scene passed across the walls of my sphere ; and
then there came after it a large blank space, and this
taught me that it indicated that some where in my life
there had been a corresponding omission. " What can
it have been ?" Scarce had this query been framed,
than there appeared a picture, which need not be de-
scribed, but the sum of whose teachings may briefly be
stated thus: I had never married-had never been
hailed by the dear titles "Wife" and "Mother."  I
had therefore failed in the one supreme womanly duty.
Nor. can any soul be fully filled with joy who neglects,
those great commands of God and Nature. Children are
the crowns of Heaven ; nor can any one-man or
woman-taste the -serener and the sweeter joys of Be-'
ing, who has failed to love ands be loved, wed and be
wedded ; for this is' one and the chiefest of means

whereby the soul becomes mellowed, and fit for higher
-uses in the Soul-home. For these reasons, my joys,
though great, were not equal to what they might have
been ; and yet, take it all in all, provided the entrance
into the upper land is made with-a clear and healthy
conscience and a fair record be left behind, no sense of
clearness, lightness and joy can equal that which is ex-
perienced subsequent to the first awakening after Az-
rael's decree has severed the marriage between matter
and soul. The Senses! Roses emit sweet odors, grateful
to the nostrils ; yet not all the perfumes of the Gulistan
is worth one inhalation of the celestial aroma in whichthe
spirit of the good.man or woman floats when once fairly
over the barriers which separate the worlds. Color!
I never knew the music of hues before I passed away-
never conceived of the sublime mysteries, nor realized the
great glory whose temple is the chalice of a flower.
Touch t Ah, what language, what pen; what tongue
can describe the deep raptures of a soul, when God's
sublime atmosphere first laves the immortal being! The
highest, keenest nerve-joy the body can experience must
be very, very dull and tame in comparison ; -and so on
through the Sense-gamuts of Earth and the hyper ones
of Spirit. Yet only the, good enjoy these pleasures.
Sin and pollution, whether of thought or over act, de-
tract from the senses and susceptibility to pleasure in
both worlds alike ; and so absolutely true is this, that
sin and folly ought to be shunned by the people, if for
no other than the selfish desire of being happy from
oneself. It is better to live right, die right, and be
right after death, than it is to purchase transient pleas-
ures on earth by drawing too largely on the bank of life,

DEALINGS WIIH THE DEAD.    $ ;


82         DEALINGS WIT THE DEA.                     THE DEAD.

to find one's drafts dishonored at the counters of the
world above. Suicides and voluptuaries are on an
equality up there. Both are only half-men, half-child-
ren, half-women; nor can they taste of the higher rap-
tures, unless they grow to holiness.'
After a while there ceased to be any more pictures,
and I became aware of the fact that an unseen force was
at work on the outside of the globe,, evidently endeavor-
ing to break it down, or in some way force a passage
through its walls. What this something could be, was
a,mystery, just so long as I vehemently desired to know,
which of course I, like others under similar circum-
stances, did. I could not, while thus endeavoring, ob-
tain my desire, and therefore I naturally began to wish
that Nellie or the old man would come, because, in
spite of my matchless surroundings, I felt quite human
in the midst of Spirituality, and the sight even of an-
other than myself would have been a solace and "a conso-
lation. No sooner had my mind placed itself upon a
new object, than I nmade two new and important dis-
coveries:  First, that loneliness or solitude is one of
the most terrible punishments to which either God or
man could ever possibly condemn a sinful human being.
God ;pity the lonely man or woman! O, it is very
dreadful to be 'compelled to exist alone !-and there are
thousands who walk the great world's streets, who move -
along in the very midst of a Solitude, as deep, silent
and fearful as that which prevails in Zahara's desert
wastes, where human footfalls never disturb the awful
stillnesb of the hour. There are those who travel up
and down the world's highways, upon whose soul no
glad sounds ever fall, and who appear to be condemned

to loneliness, as if they were thus expiating some awful
penalty as an atonement for great and undreamed-of
crimes, committed either by themselves in some pre-
existent state, or by their ancestors when the very world
was young. There are those who, while all about and
around them are merry and jocund as the bees on a
May day, are themselves as far removed from the pale
of human sympathy, and as utterly AtioNE, as if they
were shut up in some rock-ribbed cave in'the heart 'of
Mont Blanc or the Mountains of the Moon. 0, it is a
fearful thing to be shut out from the great Sympathia
whose function is to blend in one the chords of all human
hearts ! It is a sad fate indeed to be obliged to live
amidst the clamor and the clang of Discord, when all
other souls are dancing to the glorious sounds of the
great Harmonead; yet many such, aye, far too many
such there be, who are thus cut off, shut up, barred out.
They might have been let in, had the father given the
mother a smile, a caress, a blessing, at the proper mo-
ment, instead of a frown,.a rudeness and a secret curse,
as is, alas!1 too often the case ; and yet nothing is more
positively certain than that somebody must, answer to
their own souls, their own consciences, for this most fear-
ful entailment of misery, loneliness and woe. See!t you
der is a womai-a wife-big with a man-child, who will
ere long see the light; but she is miserable-is lonely,
is perchance pursed .for becoming-a mother; and so
she frets, and mopes, and pines-all the while paining
to be delivered of her pnisery and child. At length it
sees the day, the sun's bright laugh meets no reionsive
smile from its pale, thin, tiny lips. It mopes and grows,
but is prematurely old at ten yeats, a man at fifteen, a

DEALINGS, WITH THE DEAD.


I

84

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

mournful pilgrim at twenty-five, and an old veteran at
thirty years!l Who's to blame ?. Somebody! else God's
justice is, like man's, a mockery!I
Brother or sister,-who readest these pages, wouldst
thou know one of the grand.secrets underlying the con-
stitution of the great Brotherhood of Crime? It, is'
because man is a-social being, has a mortal and invin-
cible hatred and' repugnance to solitude, feels the need
of associates and sympathy, and will have both if possi-
ble, even though obliged to seek them in the very midst
of hell itself. Didst thou ever observe that the major-
ity of spiritual mediums are men and women who are
sensitive, lonely, bereft and forsaken?  Well; look
around, and thou shalt find it so. -*nd these, failing to
find sympathy on earth amidst their fellows, search for
it in the awful labyrinths that underlie the tomb; and
from the Middle States vast hordes of semi-infernals
come trooping at the heart-calls of these wretched ones,
who are thus preyed on by vampires from both Eternity
and Time.; 'for embodied wonder-mongers sap them dry,
and wear them out, while: disembodied demi-devils de-
lude them, until the fair Soul-garden either becomes an_
arid waste, or teems with thistles, thorns, and all un-
sightly and unseemly things. When such victims cry
aloud unto God, and keep. crying, He will send His
good angels to comfort, save, cheer and protect.'
Reader, wouldst thou know why millions of women;
fair, loveable, and' good as ever God's sun shone upon,.
yearly rush down the mountain's side and plunge neck.
deep int the swamps of prostitution and infamy ?- It
is because their human hearts yearn for sympathy, pine
for love, long for something good and kind-; which fail-

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

85

ing to discover and obtain where hope has told them
snch things were, they seek for it,-at last, in the horrid
belly of social damnation. Their motto, 'A short life
and a merry is better than a long and lonely one !' tells
too truly the story of many a poor girl's heart. My
God, my God, have mercy on the lonely ones ! for thou
alone knowest that many and many a sin against soci-
ety and thee is committed by such  and others, not of
settled purpose of ill-doing, but because urged on by
sheer despair. Many a crime has been committed from
a mental aberration caused by the horrors of loneliness.
Human tribunals take but little if any, account of a
criminal's antecedents and surroundings. He or she is
judged too harshly, in the main ; and thus it will be
until mankind learns a deeper lesson of wisdom than
yet. presides over its courts and councils. Only God
can truly know a heart ; and whilst this fact is so
clear, it is better to err on charity's side, if error must
enter into the account at all.
In prison there is at least a community of punish-
ment, and the sense of this goes far to relieve the tedi-
um of incarceration; for, bad though it be, many a one
has found it preferable to the perpetual and dreadful
solitude to which liberty condemned them.
Why are there such vast numbers of deserted wives
and husbands ?-so many ruined and cheerless hearths
and homes ? The answer is: because neither of the
heads of the household has even dreamed that the coin-
panion had rights which the other was b9und to re=
spect; and the greatest of these rights, and t'e one
most disregarded, is the right of being loved by that
other-loved tenderly, truly, kindly, humanly. The


88          DEALINGS 'WITH THE DEAD.
parties to the domestic compact have severally failed to
realize what common sense:ought to have suggested
from the first--that human happiness is never direct,
but is, always reflected. Whe' the married find out
this great law, and practically apply it, society will
redeem itself from all hatred and harlotry, license and
libertinism, free-love and folly, madness, murder and
meanness. AhI friendly reader, it is a 'fearful state,
that wherein a woman's or a man's true and generous
love and sympathies are driven down and beaten away
by those to whom they naturally cling. It is hard to
have their human kindness misconstrued, and to have
his or her affection crushed by the heedlessness or lack
of generosity of those. who ought to leap, and hail it
with all true human thankfulness. God knows that
there is too little real affection in the world, and it is
very hard to have that little forced back upon the full,
true heart from which it was sent forth on A mission of
goodness. This sort of thing it is that freezes up the
spirit, and makes man and woman lonely hermits in the
very midst of the teeming hives of human life, society
and effort.
It is a terrible thing to be compelled to eat your
own heart-to be forced to consume oneself-to hear
the harsh, brutal .and unfeeling tone, when one Aould
listen to the dulcet notes of generous affeetioni ; for
they freeze and chill the-spirit, and Warp the very lig-
ament 'of Soul. These sad things must be atoned;
the vicarious sacrifice must be self-made by the doer
thereof"--persons who unthinkingly tear down'and
wreck their fellows, every soul of whom might be
builded up. made strong for the Right, and emulous of

U

DEALINGs. WITH THE DEAD.          87
all great and good and noble thoughts'and deedswhich
God's human children have ever dome-and all. by kind-
ness, open-hearted conduct and friendly cheer. Heaven!
how much misery and( crime might be stayed  by one,
kind and loving word! fHow many are at this day
wading through Perdition, as they tread the pavements
of the world's broad streets, and all for want of one
kind word ! Wrote Milton:
Devil with devils damned
Firm concord hold. Men only disagree."
There is much pith in this couplet, which is far from
being all poetry-that is, if a judgment must be predi-
cated upon whatthe worlds have witnessed of warfare,
robbery, slaughter, and rapine, all along the track of
ages. Earth is, then, something worse than hell itself!
It ought to be better, for hell cannot be purged nor the
Middle State become-pure, until earth is purified, and
the daily delegations sent across the dark River be of a
better, purer and nobler mould than now.
I remember to have dearly loved the Apostles' Creed,
especially my own rendering thereof:
"I believe in the Holy Ghost; the Holy Church;..
the forgiveness of sins ; the resurrection....  the
communion of saints ; the life everlasting." Glorious
creed of glorious fishermen--Tepeated daily by millions!
But do these millions ready believe the words so freely
spoken ? Go ask their conduct- in the world's busy
market places, where human bodies and human souls
are as so many counters in the scale,--not negro
bodies and souls, but those of lordly bankers, and mo-
nied magnates, who serve as waiters in Moloch's tem-


88             DEALINGS" WITH THE DEAD.
pIes on the four shoresof the two great seas. Pity it is
that people do not believe their own religious creeds,
for if they did there would be fewer lonely ones on,
either side of the-grave.
Sung a poet, quite as good, if not so great as Milton :
If men cared less for wealth and fame,
And less for battle-fields of glory;
If writ in human hearts, a name
Seemed better than in song or story:
If men, instead of nursing pride,
Would learn to hate it and abhor it;
If more relied on Lo've to guide,  -
The world would be the better for it.
If men dealt less in stocks aid lands,
And more In bonds and deeds fraternal;
If Love's work had more willing hands
To link this world to the Supernal;
-If "men stored up love's oil and, wine,
And on bruised human hearts would pour it,
If " yours'" and "Emine" would once com)ine,
The world would be the better for it.
If more would ACT the play of Life,
And fewer spoil it by rehearsal;.
If bigotry would bheathe its knife,
Till good became more universal:
If Custom gray with ages grown,
Had fewerblind men to adore it:
If talentshone in truth alone, .
The world:would-be the better for it.
If men were wise in little things,
Affecting less in all their dealings;
If hearts had fewer rusted strings,-
To violate their kindly feelings:
If men, wben wrong beats down the tight,
Would strike together and restore it:
If Right made Right'ingevery fight,
The world would be the better for it.

DEALINGS WITH THE IDEAD.
Aye t that it would, and oill, brave lover of thy race,
when more shall live the spirit thou hast breathed. But
Faith is not yet dead; Hope stilillives in human hearts;
Charity is beginning: to be a power in the world, aid
these three-blessed three--will yet work out the world'
salvation. Strong hands, clear intellects, willing minds,
are all that is needed to develope true human individu-
ality, a thing of the future ; and then a man and'a wo-
man will pass for the self-displayed value, the intrinsier
worth manifested by Action. "It is not me they hate
and ill-use; it is the fictitious personality, they have
given me. They will not take me as I am, but insist
that I shall be what themselves desire I should be; and
in crushing, slaying, killing this phantom which they
choose to attach to my name, they are, alas, crushing,
slaying, killing me !" These words were uttered by an
almost brokenhearted man ;*they were true, and true
not only of him, but of many a lonely and sensitive one
beside.
In the days when common sense shall reign, the dis-
eases of the social body will be eradicated, and then
the loneliness of talent and genius will be exceptional
to the rule, instead of the reverse, as in these lonesome
latter years. If men could but realize that 'every hu-
man groan echoes up through all the starry Vauts3even
to the eternal throne itself, they would not eaue so
marry as they do, especially when they discover that
every one of these groans must be expiated by the
causer thereof. If men knew that every pang endured
by a human being on earth, sweeps like a whirlwind of
*Paschal, R.


_N,  J

90

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

agony along the telegraphic lines of infinite space, and
that not A soul in God's vast domain but must feel the
effects thereof in accordance with the Great Sympathia
-itself the nervous system alike of God, Nature, and
human kind-they would heartily strive- to lessen the
amount, and banish all anguish and its producing: cause'
from their midst..
The human race is a mighty harp ; touch one string
rudely, and all the others vibrate ; and the finer the
chord, the more it responds to the shock. When Jests
groaned on Calvary, the pain of his body and soul was
shared in by every creature beneath God's Infinite
heaven; and the agony thrills still go sweeping through
the worlds, and will, until all mankind shall go its way
and sin no more. No human body is healthy so long
as a single atom of disease lurks between the granules
of a bone, or between the cells of the most unimportant
viscus ; neither can society' be calm. or the race be
happy on either shore of eternity, so long as one unholy,
man or woman lives to mar the harmony, and be a dis-
cordant note in the Great Sympathia. Thus we dwell-
ers of the Soul-worlds ar impelled to action in behalf
of our brethren below, by the first and greatest law of
the universe-self-preservation ; for in making man
abjure his errors and turn toWard the Right, we lay the
surest and firmest foundation whereon to erect the great
Temple of Purity wherein all alike. shall worship God,
do well, and think no evil. The discovery of this great
principle of unity, the acquisition of the positive know-
ledge that every sensation, painful or pleasant, expe-
rienced by any, even -the most distant, low and de-
graded of the-species, was necessarily shared in by all

DEALINGS WITH THE .'EAD,

91,

the rest, surprised me greatly; and from finding that
the finest nerved and most sensitive were also the most
unhappy, I was led to infer the existence of a great
Vicarious law, whose elements were Sympathy, Conipen-
sation, Distribution. True, some may pass through life,
and apparently escape its action--but not forever.
God has said substantially, ".Bear ye one-another's bur-
densr;" and borne they must be. Sensitives bear the
greatest .portion of misery, and their fate seems at first
sight to be a hard one-a life all full of tears, groans
and sorrows ; yet the law of Compensation is operative
in all stages, phases, and planes of being:
"And he who the weariest path has -trod
Shall nearest stand to the throne of God."
There are seasons when men and women of a certain
mould, without the least apparent cause, are plunged
into the very midst of the blackest barathrum of misery
and woe, and. who ten times a year pass through the
body of a death too fearful in its agonies to be even
faintly imagined by those of a different make-up. They
complain, and are met with the stereotyped: "Fancy!.
Hypochondrias! Delusion 1"  Delusion, forsooth! Is
that pale and haggard cheek, that pain-thrilled sea of
nerve, those ,drops of almost bloody sweat, that utter
prostration of soul, a mere delusion? Will the hypothe-
sis of diseased nerves, liver, heart or stomach account
for these things ?  To the looker-on of surface, Yes ;
to the student of the soul and its mysteries, No!i There
is a deeper cause, a higher power in operation.- Will
* the theory of physical disease account for the instan-
taneous plunging of a man or woman into the deepest

0


92           DEA&amp;INGS4 WT I'T     DEAD.
anguish  ho,scareeten seeds beforewei'e in theenjoy-
rhent of perfect health fspirit Spul and body? Never .
What means the terrible weight of woe which suddenly
leaps upon the soul of the sensitive ?  Whence comes
this ocean of mental pain and half-sense of retribution,
knowing themselves innocent and spotless of all wrong?
I will answer. At that moment some one, somewhere,
is undergoing all these- pangs from apparent cause.
The wave of pain has gone out, and, like the needle to
the pole, flies directly to those whose position on the
plane of the great sympathetic nerve of the universe fits
then.to receive it. Some one else receives it in turn ;
but it becomes less intense, degree after degree, until
at last only a faint and tiny wave reaches the foot of
the throne.
"Eloi, Eloi, lamma Sabbacthani!" groaned the dying
Ohrist ; and the throes of his agony went pulsing
through the universal human heart, till the most ma-
j6stic prince of Seraphim quailed with agony. Even
so, still, as in the days of yore, is operative the, same
great vicarious law.
When the suffering, soul turns itself to God, relief
comes, but not an instant before. This latter law-for
it is one-was well known in ancient times, and amongst
the higher classes of the Orient is so still. It and its
operation is well set forth by a modern poet of Islam:
"'Allah, Allah!' cried the sick man, racked with pain the long night
through;
Till with prayer his heart grew tender, till his lips.like honey grew.
But at morning came the Tempter ; sai4, 'gall louder; child of Fain!
See if Alah ever hears, or answers, 'ere as),' again."
Like apta the crnel cavil through his brain and pulses went;
To his heart an icy coldness, to his brain a darkness dent.

DEALINGS WITH Til t    AD.            98
Then before him sat n  glias; says, My child, why -hucismayed ?
Dost repent thy former fervor ? Is thy soul of prayer aatid?
,AhI' he cried, I've calledso often ; never hear4 the ' Ioeam!X-"
And I thought God will not pity; will nbt tfn oa me his eye
Then the grave Elias answered, 'God said Uise, Blip*; go  h# a
pe.tohim, the sorely tempted,; lift him from  sr gulf of woe.
Tell him _that his -vex~ longing is itself an answererng0cry;
That his prayer, "Come, gracious Allah!" 1s my answer, ":flere ami 1."
Every inmost aspiration is God s angel undefiled:
And in every ' omy Father!' slumbers deep a 'Here, my child.
I do not say, nor did I discover that all sensitives, at
all times, are the mystic sympathants of those who suf-
fer ; for such is not the case. Much suffering comes to
them from   other causes and sources;- yet that a great
deal of mental agony does come from the source stated
I became perfectly convinced.
The last twenty years, I also saw-by the action of
a retrospective faculty of my soul, then discovered and
applied for the first time-has been productive of more
misery than any period of 4ual length since the world
began: for the reason, among others, that the people's
nerves and brains are keener, fuller, quicker in action,
and more alive to sensations than in the years prece-
dent. The mental and physical culture of the people has
been such, that not one civilizee in five thousand en-
joys good health in either department of common hu-
man nature. Much of the misery extant in the world
to-day is solely attributable to the extraordinary sensi-
tiveness now characterizing such vast numbers of peo
plc; and which morbid condition-for there are 1~
kinds of sensitives,, the  natural and the hotuhu     :
growths, the last of which I now allude to    o-e  t
origin to-First, A general overworking of the brain,


0

94

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

to the total neglect of the muscular system. Second, Im-
proper diet, in time, kind and quantity. Third; Uecd-
lessness in clothing, in reference to color, texture and
amount; carelessness in regard to heai,A light, cold,
sleep, - and physical magnetico-electrical influences.
Fourth, Personal magnetic influences.  Fifth, The
metaphysical nature of modern thought and study.
Sixth, Irregularity and excess, extending to all things
connected with human existence, by reason of which.
the funds in the bank of life are exhausted at the very
time they ought to be most plentiful: Seventh, Mod-
ern Spiritualism, which, by reason of its intensity, at-
tracts and absorbs nearly all human attention, to the
exclusion lof every thing else ; causes people to ex-
change common sense for 'philosophies' not half so use-
ful; induces a sort of intellectual fever ; lifts a man above
the earth; makes him forgetful of his body, by holding
up his spirit to his view ; promises to set his feet on solid
rock, and ends by, as it should, throwing out the fac-
titious props and stilts whereon he has stood to' catch
glimpses of what lies on the other side, and letting him
fall back upon his- own resources finally.
All these things, the last included, previous to its
ultimate effect, have, by inducing morbidness of thought
and sentiment, principle and feeling, unfitted man to
either live or die.. The result has been, the develop-
ment of a sensitiveness so acute, that persons are en-.
abled to penetrate the surface of both things and peo-
ple, and the result of this involuntary inspection is the
discovery that there is many a rotten spot in the fair-
est-looking fruit-many an unworthy motive underly-
ing the fairest pretende-nothing but duplicity where

a
r
;t

*r

friendship was thought to dwell-lust and passion, un-
der the guise of esteem; and love--and manymore such
unveilings of the seeming, and disclosures of the real
This sensitiveness -is morbid,-but its' revelations are,
alas ! quite frequently too true; and the effect it pro-
duces is an inveterate suspicion of all things and peo
ple, and an utter loss of confidence in the entire human
race. This is the hidden reason why a certain order of
those who call themselves Spiritualists are so unhappy
and discontented ; and it is this also that has suggested
the ten thousand and ten panaceas for all the ills of
life now so freely scattered up and down the walks of
the social world. To this cause is to be 'attributed the
thousand mad Quixotic schemes for- rejuvenating the
world-fron 'Free-love' to 'Angel-movements,' 'Wo-
man's Rights' to 'Land Reform.', This it is that -sepa-
rates people--engulphs thousands in the set of idle and
useless speculation--entangles thousands more in the
meshes'of sophistry, under the name of 'Philosophy'-
wise and otherwise, " Harmonial' and Harm-only;
and this it is that males people lonely, and throngs the
ways of Earth and Spirit-land with pilgrims of Soli-
tude, surrounded by millions.
It is never your boisterous, jolly,' rubicund subject
who reaches the penetralia of things, and' who thence-
forth casts off the world in despair, declares the play
of lifeis only a dismal tragedy, and becomes at heart
a hermit of the misanthropic order. 0 no! far from
it i Such belong to the first or lower orders of men---
they can find company anywhere, at any time. Careless
they, no matter whether it rains or -shines ; it's all the
same to them, whether school keeps or not. 'Of those

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.


96          DEALINGS WITU T.PHE DEAD.
who receive little, but little is expected. It is your fine-
rlerved people, the really greatrhearted man or woman-
those who pertain to the second or other and higher
orders of mankind-your natural aristocrats of the
Soul.worlds-when they get there--who on earth suffer
greatest and undergo the most.
This general information came to me as I flitted on
by the home-sides of those whom I loved, and who, in
turn,loved me. Loved me! What a world in a word!I
In the preceding pages I stated that: there were two
draughts of knowledge which came to slake my death-
less :soul-thirst,'while, I waited and wished for Nellie
and the old man who went with her. The law of soul
is, this: any question, the answer to which can be com-
prehended by the asker, may be .propounded to itself in,
the absolute certainty of a correct response, provided
the knowledge it conveys be adapted to the ends of
good and use, to either the neighbor or the self. This
is an integral law of the very being, no matter where
that being may be located. On earth men are not pure
nor properly situated, hence it is far more difficult for
them to elicit the required knowledge, than it is for
those who are not embodied; yet the law is as opera-,
tive on the lowest earth as in the highest heaven. In
accordance with the principle] laid down, that which I
have faintly set forth came to me; but the second les-
son, which seemed to be a sequential suggestion of what
I thought was an attack upon the external wall of my
inglosing sphere, conveyed wisdom as welk asaknow-
ledge, the good of which will be seen by those who
carefully analyze it..
3y glance now fell full and direct upon the point

I

where the disturbance of the crystalline barbrierwas
greatest ; and while wondering if it- couWldwithetaid
the effort made by some power on: its exterior tobreah.
it, or whether it would remain intact untilmyished
for friends arrived;, I began to study itsrcomipsition.
It was evidently not material, and yet it was something
quite as substantial. Among men the surrounding en.
velope of the body is called the 'odylic sphere' yet
odyle is material, therefore this could not be formedof.
that. 'It was not soul-substance, because it was far
grosser, and served a greatly inferior purpose It was
not spirit, either. Here then was a demand for useful
knowledge ; nor was it long ere that demand was full
supplied ; for it came to me that :embodied man repre-
sented God .in his threefold nature, Body, Spirit, con-
scious Soul or Thinking Principle : that each of these
must essentially differ from the others, and in a scien-
tific sense be high, higher, and most high; and thai too,
not by reason' of continuity or rarefaction, but by dis-
parates, and insulations. Now all three exist in, of
and constitute the same individual; Wherefore thr
must be at least two substances, differing in toto from
the three primaries, yet of a nature enabling  hem. to
clingto and connect the principals. What were these
two substances ? At ° glance I 'saw that the nuterials
of a human body- gave forth an atmosphere '"ignh
serves to connect it with .the life, or materio-splriar
part of man, and ties each by soluble links to thhe
material aid spiritual worlds. This is thedyglic
What connects soul with spirit ?  The seond g
revealed to me the fact that every monad, carnat
conscious alike, embodied or free, mere rnad o'

'5

I

If

I

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.        97


98          DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
oped soul, was surrounded by an atmosphere of its own,
unique, single, atomless, homogeneous, and elastic.
This envelope is very etherial, and is called Ethylle ;
it ,connects'soul with spirit, and unites all three worlds,
body; soul, and spirit together, and constitutes not only
the spheres, but the 'Personal Nebulo,', out of which
the immortal spark creates its surrounding sphere or
world, when disembodied, and whereof it, while in the
flesh, erectsIts stately chateaux en espagne--its castles
in the air. Here was a new solution of a mystery that
had troubled not only myself, but many a philosopher,
and a solution, too, in perfect and strict accordance
with the, principles of the Great Harmonead; for the
Nebulous Ocean enclosing the Spacial Halls of Deity,
wherein roll the starry systems, is the ethyllic envelope
of the Eternal One, is the material whereof he, through
his servants, the F os, fashioneth the mighty fabrics
now floating. in the azure.
Following hard upon the last great discovery, came
another, not perhaps so sublime, but quite as useful ; it
,was this : Th, mental efprt whose results have just
been recorded, had the effect- of uplifting my soul, and
firing it with, ambition to such an extent or degree, that,
seeing how little I knew, and how vast the fields of the
unknown were, I regretted my poor weak hufnan
nature, and almost hating it, became impatient of re-
straint, because I could not take wing, and, flying to
the Grand Centre, merge my being into that of God
Himself, and thus become all-knowing, all-being, all-
Life. I was'beset with the same sin that hurled Luci-
fer dow from the emppyreal heights of the vast heaven ;
and like him I'top, most bitterly did I regret my daring ;

DEALINGS WITH THE .DEAD.      99

'

for almost on the, very -instant that this sacrilegious
thought took possession :of my soul, my mind lost its
clarity, my vision became dim and misty, my equanimity
was lost,.and was succeeded by a state entirely differ-
ent-a sort of childliness of feeling. Almost instantly
my soul lost sight of the magnificent field just opened
to its inspection, and was forced by a power not then
understood, to turn completely round, and direct its
gaze earthward. Resistance being vain, I did so, and
observed directly opposite the point of attack upon the
sphireal wall, a window-like opening, through which I
looked down the vista of a lane of lightsbounded on
either side by an impenetrable amorphous wall. One
end of this lane terminated on earth, the other in the
Soul-world; and from the peculiar nature of the lesson
shortly conveyed, I became aware of two things: first,
that neither knowledge nor joy ever flow into the secret
chambers of the soul, unless the receptacle vessels there-
int are duly prepared to receive them ; for although
knowledge may become a thing of memory, yet it can
only remain stored up like corn in a granary, and never
become of positive value,-or serve' -as soul-food, until
that soul itself is in a condition to digest and assimilate
it. Secondly, there could no. longer be a doubt but
that I was being practically instructed by an invisible'
being of masterly wisdom and accomplishments ; and
from the nature of the emotions within me, to which
this thought gave rise, there was but little if any doubt
that this invisible teacher was the mysterious 'Him' to
whom Nellie had so mischievously alluded, when she
invited-ine to come with her.
If a woman ist loved, no matter where she be, no mat-


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

ter by whom, or where the lover may be, she knows it
instantly, without being told of it. It comes to her just
as naturally as the'vapors sail before the summer breeze.
I knew that someboyoved me ; and that although
unseen hitherto, that some one' was loved by me. The
telegraph of Affectio is swifter and surer than that of
electric batteries, and every true woman knows it, no
matter whether she be dead or alive.
As the sense of this flashed over me, my heart went
up to God in such a prayer of gratitude as only they
can feel and know, whose deathless yearnings have been
fully -satisfied. My soul rejoiced in its new tutelage,
and it praised God for this sense of the presence in
action, if not in sight, of one who took an interest in
clearing my pathway to Wisdom's coast, thus early on
my everlasting journey toward the shores of the Infinite
Sea.*
The further end of the lane of light terminated at a
spot where was being enacted a scene of a drama where-
in the actors were denizens of three worlds-Earth,
Soul-world, and Middle'-State. The lesson taught me
was, that very often organization, to a great extent,
governs and determines human destiny.
Before a vast audience, on a Sabbath night, stood a
- lonely man-~one with massive and active brain, but
thin, weak and 'puny body-therefore an 'unbalanced
character. The woman who seven and twenty years
before had given him birth, had imparted her own sen-
sitive nature to her child ; while the. man through
* A revelation concerning which will appear in the sequel ; and
one, too, compared to which, the grandest and most beautiful things
contained in the present volume, are comparatively trivial.-Pos.

whose agency God had incarnated the lonely one, was
of an ambitious, affectionate, but passionate and passional
nature. The son thus congenitally biased and -tainted
had grown to man's estate, and from various social
*    and other causes, he being a sang melee, had suffered to
such a degree that his soul was driven in upon itselfto
a great extent ; which, while rendering him still more
sensitive and morbid, also caused his soul to expand
knowledge-ward, become wonderfully intuitive and as-
piring, yet bound up by the affectional nature within
his own personal or individual sphere. But such souls
resist'th's damming up ; hence occasionally the banks
overfiwId and he became passional; forgot h'is dig.
nity;     led to believe that whoever said love, meant
love; 2:  beset with temptation, and yielded, until at
last b v art was torn to. pieces, and his enveloping
sphere is ame so tender and weak, that it could not
with= aa any determined attack thereon ; and thus he,
like tho ± ands more whose spheres are thus invalidated
and rlvaxed, became very sensitive to influences of all
sorts al characters, and a -ready tool and subject for
the epiisoitations and experiments of disembodied in-
habiLnts of the Middle State. He became a'medium!Z
Of course this circumstance and qualification necessarily
threw him into the society of those who accept the
modern theurgy.
In proportion to the self-abandonment and personal
abnegation, the degree to which the will is vacated, do
such persons become good mediums. The more im-
mersed in the theurgic studies and novelties they are,
the more they lose themselves, anfd their value ceases
to be individual; but only representative. In the last

100

101,

DEALINGS WITH THE ,DEAD,


Nr

.

102

DEALINGS 'WITH THE DEAD.

sense they inspire a liking in the minds:of others, but
in their former capacity, none so generous as to really
love and pity them; for, being perfect automata,.sub-
ject to any and all sorts of influences, they become all
things by turns, and nothing long; hence they are ac-
cuse of inconsistency and everything else, by the very
people,- to serve, and amuse, and instruct whom they
have vacated themselves, and consented tacitly to be
drained of the last drop of inan and womanhood by .
harpies and varypires from both sides of the grave.
The' man before ine had been guilty of this supreme
folly, and, like many a. score of others, had failed to
realize'that no man or woman can ever be loved alone
as the representative or official, but only as man or wo-
man ; nor that the more one merges him or herself in
an office, the more one sinks the individual in the re-
presentative, the less are their chances of being either
loved or respected. This is one of the reasons why
mediums are, as a class, unhappy and discontented, al.
ways craving love and sympathy for their own sakes,
and never getting either. As mediums and speakers,
they have friends and admirers by the hundred ; but
let their gift be lost, or themselves be demented or
driven into some silly act, and, lot the 'friends' drop
off like rain from a roof. Of course, there are those
who will deny this, but it is true, nevertheless, and will
remain so, until'these sensitives learn the lesson of self-
conservation, and exchange the passive for the active
mediumship-the BLENDING for their automacy.
Let it be observed, that every human being is sur -
rounded with an atmosphere emanating from theam-
selves- and that these enveloping auras are charged

F DEALINGS WITH TIEE DEAII.

by the man oi' woman with all the qualities, good or
bad, .pertaining to the individual. Thus, a person's
sphere may be full of snakes, (figuratively speaking),
asps, spiders, toads, and all manner of foul, vile, and
venom-meaning things ;while, at the same time,.the
speech and external conduct of these same pOrsonsn ay
be of the.blandest kind. Now no sensitive can long
associate with such  without the imminent danger of
foul contagion.; which, to the extent that it affects them,
is INSANITY. Let one of them be in company, pure,
good, honest and true, and they will be the same ; let
them mingle with Atheists; larmonialists. Infidels, Free
Lovers, Catholics, Protestants, Philosophers, Scientists,
Christians, no matter whom, and straightway they be-
come tinctured with corresponding sentiments and opin-
ions. Nor is this all; for people from the transmundane
worlds are attracted to persons of corresponding senti-
ments, as well as to those who, not so, are yet magnetic
sensitives, and most gladly avail themselves of the pres-
ence of such, to give forth their opinions on everything
in general and nothing in particular. This explains
why a certain class of mediums blow hot and cold as
the days go by ; for scarce an hour in the week are they
properly themselves, but nearly all the time are repre-
senting somebody else, either in or out of the body to
whose magnetism they have ingloriously  nucmid.e
I.ywas.speaking of spheres which encompass lnd
uals. They, as all other things in the great Harmonead,
are rhythmical. Men and their spheres, like .musical
notes, are of varying quantity and value. Some are
whole notes, double notes, halfs, eighths,: sixteenths,
thirty-seconds, 1 sixty-fourths, and so on. The last

0

103


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

four sorts are plentiful; the first three'are rather scarce.
The last can never approach the value of the first, al-
beit they will reach to heights and values infinitely be-
yond where they may chance to be at present ; but
when they reach the point now occupied by notes one,
two,gnd three, these latter will have attained a vastly
higher place on the infinite scale. Nor. is this all ; for
the lpw of physical gravitation has its correspondent
in the psychical realm. A stone let fall from a height
reaches the ground at a constantly accelerating rate of
speed, which speed is itself determined by the greater
or less amountof density and weight contained within
a given bulk. Thus a cubic inch of cork will be longer
on the journey than a corresponding cube of solid steel.
And so with the human soul. A, B, and C, being more
unfolded at the .start than E, F, and G, by reason of
better antecedents and conditions, will, for all eternity,
widen the distance at first separating them. To re-
turn, The human notes, (and those of spheres), like
their correspondents of the musical staff, and of color,
are governed by a law of their own. A perfect human
society would be perfectly melodious and harmonic, for
the reason that every individual would fill his or her
proper sphere, and to which they are constitutionally
fitted and adapted. Illustration : The sphere of A is
sympathetical, and accordant with and to that of C and
E, though not with B and F (the law of thirds and
fifths), but these latter will accord with other notes,
with which also A can assimilate perfectly, and thus
the entire human scale can affinitize, and would, were it
not that many uncongenial notes are huddled and jum-
bled together in that utter distraction and confusion

called Society. The sole cause of all the dissatisfaction
and discord in the world is to be found in the fact, that
human notes, like musical ones, often occupy wrong
places on the leger lines of being ; and all that is need-
ed to set them right is not, as many world-savers image
ine, a complete destruction of the existing system$ but
merely a little judicious transposition, to be.effected by
the great transposer, Common Sense.
As I gated through the lane of light upon the man
before the audience, I saw that he, like others, was a
good note, capable of filling an important place in the
Harmonead, but he was far from being in the right
spot, and -for two reasons; one of which was'a too vio-
-lent ambition to know mysteries beyond him, arid to
change sinners into saints by eloquent speech ; hence
he, like myself a few moments before, became impatient,
the result of which was a self-doom to lower planes of
thought, act and observation. I found that he was un-
successful also from another cause.. Believing himself
to be right; that his knowledge was real; that his in-
tuitions were reliable ; and, knowing that many-fields
lay open before his soul for exploration which were
sealed to others, his spirit grew restive froin neglect,
and the lack of attention he thought his truths demanded;
and, from the hight of power, he fell to abjectness, because
he could not, would not pander to the popular:taste and
fancy. This last was a 'sin' in the right direction truly;
but one that took many a mouthful of bread fromhis
wife and little ones, who had been well fed clothed and
cared for, if the spirit of pride had given way te policy,
imposture and craft; three counterpoints which would
have brought out, set off and relieved -certain beauties
5*

-

104

105

DEALINGS WITfl THE DEAD.


106         DEALINGS WITH TIE DEAD.

whose effect would have been 'Popularity' below, but
regrets, deep and bitter, in the Soul-world. Fool was
he, or was he not? for refusing to ring the dull changes
suited to the edification and advancement of so-called
Philosophers and Reformers,' people who hold Jesus
up to ridicule, and speak of God as "The chap supposed
to dwell beyond the stars !" No! His true place was as
the center of a few prayerful souls, and the wielder of
the pen for God's sake, instead of being the mouth-piece
and oracle of and for those, who next day would not
only.forget, but previously curse him for his pains.
It came tQ me that such is the fate of nearly all that
class of persons who cultivate spiritual acquaintances at
the cost of loss of will and complete self-sacrifice.
These people, at best, are only the ephemera of the age,
and well'it is that such is the case. They are sneered
at, vilified, scandalized, and traduced-sapped of the
last drop-of vitality, and then exultingly laughed at for
being such fools ; and when the days of hardship come,
but very few of those for whom the tremendous sacrifice
has been made, will go to their relief. In fact these
human-looking and humape-talking people can stand the^e
self-immolated victim's grief and sorrow very well in-
deed. The rising tide may engulph the lonely ones,
and not a hand of them all be stretched out to save.
True, such conduct is in strict accordance-with the way
of the world, bit it is a'very bad way, and those who
follow it will pay for their folly in the coming ages.
Instead of using these unfortunates in .this manner,
tie true 'motto and resolve of every one should be:
It may be that God or Destiny is working out some
deep and . instructive problem through that man or

s-
x
x3
' SS
I
t
i
! 5
r
f9r E
it
i
Si
_" r
r'
F3

woman, for the world's bestgood. It is well to be on
the safe side, and therefore best to treat them tenderly
and kindly ; for it may happen that it shall be said to
us hereafter :'Even as ye have treated the least of
these, my servants, ye have also treated me!' It wll
be pleasant to know, in the upper worlds, that you have
dried, some tears and bound up some bleeding wounds
in the lower ones."
Thus I stood and viewed, at one-glance, both cause
and re sult. The man's body was haggard, his spirit
very, very weary, and the enveloping sphere was liter-
ally torn into shreds. These spheres can only be kept
intact and entire by the exercise of an active will ; but
this man's will, like that of.vast numbers of the medi-
umistic class-the automata of the dwellers in the Mid-
dle State-had slept, and that so soundly that nothing
but the echoes of his own misery could break it. Such
people let things take ,their own course, or else rely on
Spirits and.earthly friends, instead of on themselves and
Deity. They pursue the ways of such a false life, heed-.
less of the inevitable consequences of sorrow and dis-
aster that must ensue ; they forget that, to be even a
moderately talented man or woman, is infinitely prefer-
able to being the mere machine and mouth-piece of the
loftiest seraph in the great Valhalla of the Skies-and
that, too, for reasons plainly discernible.
I saw, with grief and consternation, that not one
medium in every ten had a perfect envelope-else they
would not be so easily influenced by mortals, nor ob-
sessed and possessed by the dead people from the'id-
regions beyond the earth.
Through these openings the bodies and souls-of me-

.1

~DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.        10-7


diums may he and are attacked,* the remnant of will
destroyed or lulled, the mpral sense stupified, and the
entire being subjugated by spectral harpies and human.
ghouls, who wander. on either, bank of existence.
Many people, when reading the Scriptures, are in-
clined to explain away many things as. 'poetry' which
ought not to be so interpreted. Thus'the first chapter
of the book of Job contains: the following assertions,
which it would be well to read oftener and more care-
fully: "Now there was a day when the sons of God
came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan
came also among them. And the Lord said unto Satan,
Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the Lord
and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from
walking up and down in it."
Satan here undoubtedly means an evil chief of the
harpy bands infesting the borders of both worlds,
whose sole delight it is to circumvent God and man,
and bring all good things to an evil end.. Whether
this state of things shall continue, depends not upon
God or the devils, but upon man, and his actions, influ-
ence and aspirations. Those ill-meaning ones who live
just beyond the threshold, often attain their ends by
subtly infusing .a semi-sense of volitional power into
the minds of their intended victims ; so that at last
they come to believe themselves to be self-acting, when
* Good spirits do not break the sphere ! They approach the crown of the,
head and infuse thoughts, else blend themselves with the subject, but
never by destroying either consciousness or will. Evil spirits attack
the fwer brain, the amative organs, the lower passions, and force the
spheres of their victims. In a similar way the bad people destroy and
ruin good ones.-PUB.

in fact they are but the merest shuttlecocks, bandied
about between the battledoors of knavish devils on one
side, and devilish knaves upon the other ; and between
the two, the poor wretches are nearly heart-reft and
destroyed.
For every ill there is a remedy, God-sanctioned and
provided ; and the only one in such cases is the re-
integration and rejuvenation of the will, and the repair-
ing therewith of the disrupted sphere. The way that
end is accomplished, is through the instrumentality of
prayer and a persistent exercise of will. No person,
who is at all reasonable, will for one moment believe
that any of the profounder9mysteries have yet been
revealed by the class of spiritual beings who rap, tip,
turn tables, and entrance mediums3-the effect of all of
which should only be to merely call attention, in well-
regulated minds, to a new class of demonstrative evi-
dence of the soul's immortality. When the intercourse
between the two worlds shall have become normal,
healthful and regular, the earth's inhabitants may look
for light from beyond, of a nature and character far,
very far above aught that yet had come ; and that much
of the coming light will reach the earth in the same
mode as that which is herein given, must be apparent,
because the process is a normal and healthful one, pro-
ducing satisfaction and content instead of doubt and
distrust, as has been the case heretofore
Mankind, in either world, are as yet only on the bor-
ders-the very Adges of being and of knowledge--and
men-must and will come en rapport with the higher life
only by living correct lives below.
The first step toward this normal inspiration and en-

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.       -109

108 DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

lightenment -consists in- gaining a complete mastery of
the self, the purpose, and the will. The man or woman,
who believes what any spiritual being may rap, tip, talk
out, or write about, merely because it is a Spirit, has
not yet left off childish things. Tin the coming time,
men will derive information directly from the Soul-
worlds, and not by the proxy of tables and spirits, as
now.
The course here recommended is the true and only
one capable of effecting the redemption and liberation
of the obsessed from the terrible thraldom to which, by
their own unwise action, they have been subjected.
The sufferings of the class alluded to ought to be prima
facie evidence to themselves that their methods of
dealing with the dead are not the proper ones, nor such
as should be adopted by any sane or rational being.,
Their miseries, as a general thing, aresevere enough to
excite the pity and'commiseration of even a fiend ; yet
scarce ten in a hundred of these self-immolated victims
receive even the poor meed of thanks, much less food
and raiment, for- their toil and pains. By self-abnega-
tion and resignation of the will, they have brought their
misery upon themselves, by opening their spheres for the
free entrance of whatever apocryphal philosopher or
saint, whose identity they can NEVER prove, may choose
to accept their invitation ; and after displacing their o-wn
common sense, substitute a very un-common kind in lieu
thereof. It is only by an assertion of self, of will-a
persistent upbuilding and reparation of the shattered
fabric of their personal spheres--that the evil can be
kept distant and the good be attracted and entertained.
The great mass of obsessing and demonstratig spirits

110

u

* DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

0

111

are from the Middle Kingdoms; some of them are very
powerful, and are scripturally spoken of as "Princes
and Powers of the Kingdoms of the air." The better
class are denizens of the pure Soul-worlds, which is as far
removed from the Mid-region as light is from shadow.
It is only by beating them off, that mediums can ever
hope to regain their self-control, establish a communion
with the divine City of pure souls, and successfully pass
through the body of their double death, into the calm,
sweet and holy atmosphere of the blissful regions which
exist above.
Millions there are, around whose hearts the tendrils
of fondest love do clinig-whose happiness is centered
in some dear one's heart, and to whom life were a dreary
waste and barren, were they deprived of the sweet and
cheering presence of their lost ones, at least in memory.
The question of questions to these is, 'Shall we .meet
again ?-shall the broken links be reunited in the lands
beyond the River? When Death shall have sealed us
apart, comes there ever a time when that seal shall be
melted, nd- we loving ones clasp each other in a fond
embrace ?' Such are vital questions, to which different
answers must be given.
One of the' secrets which I soon discovered in the
Soul-world was that consanguinity, although a very
strong bond of union between people, is by no means
the strongest. Those souls are nearest who occupy the
same position on the plane of development. Thus it
often happens that brothers and sisters are really less
related than the same persons are to the most distant
strangers. Children are often born of the same-pa-
rents, whose appearance, conversation, deportment, con-

t


I'

112

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

stitution, habits, disposition and proclivities are as dif-
ferent as different can be. Such relations have nothing
in common, save that the monad idonstituting the soul of
each becomes incarnate in the same matrix ; that is all.
All monads vary; some are more unfolded and unfold-
able than others, and while the'intrinsic quality of each
corresponds, yet conditions may cause a higher expres-
sion of one than another, or that same one under differ-
ent circumstances. Thus a monad, be it never so ripe
in itself, isforced to surround itself with certain spirit-
ual and'material envelopes, furnished by the father, on
its passage from his soul-cells to the gestative chamber
wherein it clothes itself with corporality. -Now, what-
ever clings to the monad on, its passage is'totally ex-
ternal, and is charged with the man. If he is a sot or
libertine, bloodthirsty or ambitious, cheerful or de-
spondent, these states are impressed upon all his juices
and fluids, nervous, physical gr spiritual; and the en-
velopes of the commissioned monad, partaking of these
impressions, subsequently develops in the same direc-
tion, and, on the principles of attraction and impres-
sion, affect the fore-future of the contained monad or
germ-soul. That this is true, and that all the ill is im-
pressed externally, is proved by the fact that a couple
may have children during one decade, wherein the pa-
rents live upon a low external plane; which children
will be angular, and manifest anj but .lovely and,
genial traits. The same persons, during the second
decade, may reform and become deeply moved with re-
ligious sentiment, such as expresses itself in prayer-
meetings, singing, and violent faith-practice. The chil-
dren born under this reign will be deeply excitable,

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

1 1a

fervent, ambitious, sensitive, boisterous at times, and, as
a general thing, superficial and changeable. During
the third decade, when common sense, practical ration-
ality, and just ai d noble views of life and its obligations .
shall have taken the place of their previous state-
when cleanliness, light, fair, and sunshine, daily-acted
prayers instead of loud-mouthed lip-worship,, consti-
tute some of the elements of their religion-and when
their bodies have become purified by proper living,
eating, drinking and labor--their children will be born
with larger brains, better bodies, nobler appearances;
and their career through life will correspond. All this
is as true as. the Eternal Gospel, and shows that, al-
though ill and evil are dee ly rooted in the human soil,
yet they are by no means ineradicable.
All men know that they often feel more love and
friendship for strangers than they do. for their own
blood brothers; ind friendship, when real, and not
based upon. physical properties, or selfish motives, is a
thing that unquestionably survives the ordeal of the
grave. Persons thus bound together will, and do meet,
'whether of the same lineage or not. But it often happens
that thebest of earthly friends belong to and represent two
distinct orders of soul ; and it may be that they pertain
to orders so widely separated, that on earth, as in the
heavens, they must lose each other, and strike hands
and hearts over a 'gulf impassable by either. Do you
not see hundreds of proofs of this all around you on the
earth? A tender, gentle, delicate girl often clings, with
all the desperate energy of idolization, to some rough,
coarse, uncouth, unkempt and brutish fellow. The love
of that.podr heart will redeem that man from- many a

I

'        '

0


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

horror in the Middle state, and ensure his speedier en-
trance into the lovely gardens of the Soul-world ! The
same principle is demonstrated even among the animals,
between opposite species of whom the fondest attach-
ments often exist, as is seen in the Happy Families of
menageries ; the 'love of a lion for a tigress, a cat for
a rat, a horse for a hog, a serpent for a rabbit, and last
and greatest, the love of the dog for man-an affection
so deep and.pure, that it puts that between human be-
ings to the blush of shame by comparison ; for the dog--
generous, noble dog !-everywhere sacrifices every other
love, and devotes his entire being to the services of his
human friend.
Dogs and birds abound in both the Spirit and the
Soul-worlds. In both they are representatives of states
--loves, affections-and are found in the former realm
quite as often as.in the latter, for the-reason that the
coarsest, most wicked, and brutal mian, he who most
violently hates his kind, yet must, and does, and will
love something, and the dog is almost universally that
object, else a bird or fowl ; for how often do you see
the drunkard followed by his faithful cur, and how fre-
quently the hardest, man in a community lavishes the
most tender care upon a fowJ.-a game-cock, a parrot or
canary-sweet, beautiful, lovely canary!
The first reply to the question,'Shall we friends meet
again?' must be answered affirmatively. You will meet,
but whether ye remain together is another question,
and depends altogether on the rapidity with which the
one shall unfold and develope up to the point occupied
by the other. But, if the one friend belongs to one or-
der, and 'the other to a higher, then the electric chain

of unity will connect ye over the vastest ocean of infi-
nite space. Everything moves in elliptical orbits in the
material, spiritual and affectional realms alike.: In the
Soul-world the foci of this ellipse are Memory and Hope.
The lines constituting it are also the lines of the great
llarmonead-the vast Sympathia; every human being,
good as well as evil, is located on its plane, and along
its wires forever is flashing love and well-wishing, and
every heart must have its pulses quickened by the warm
magnetic outflow. The sun's heat falls at an angle
which enables Nova Zembla's icebergs to laugh at his
efforts to melt them ; they have laughed these myriad
centuries ; will laugh, perhaps, for hundreds more ; yet
the sun is patient, still shines on, and with such a steady
radiance and blandness, that the frozen North begins to
quake with apprehension lest its reign be forever closed;
for somehow it begins to feel that the question of its
regnancy is only ofie of time, and that heat is, after all,
more powerful than cold, love than hatred ; wherefore
it must one day yield-resolve its ices into liquid flow ;
cause its frozen heaps to ride upon the waves toward
the steaming seas ; relieve the poles ; let the earth
swing round, and all surface-earth smile with green
gladness. So with the. worlds beyond. The rays-of
goodness have long shone upon the evil ones of the
Middle State, and have bounded off again. Still around
go the flashes again and again; for neither God nor true
human souls grove tired of loving, even though that love
be repelled seven, seventy, or seven myriads of times !
Around goes the flash, and at every circuit some good is
done!. Navigators tell you that every year the number
and bulk of icebergs from the Northern oceans increase

115

114

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.


116

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

in number in the Southern seas., -Every one of them is
a victory achieved by Persuasion over Force ; and even
so the population of the realms of the Soul-worlds is eon-
stantly increased by the accession of people who, having
got tired of Hell, voted it unpleasant, and have deemed
it expedient to emigrate to Heaven, a land which, they
have learned from missionaries, abounds in milk and
honey, and all good things whatsoever. Every one of this
host of emigrants is an accession to the Good, and a loss
irreparable to the Bad ! Every one is a symbol of the
victory of Right over Wrong. Bye-and-bye there will
be a 'total depopulation of the Middle kingdoms, and
their places will be supplied with something better ;
and the sooner mankind cease to do evil and learn to
do well, the quicker will this much-desired hegira take
place.
Pure love changes males into men; and when men be-
come what they are capable of in an upward direction,
the Middle State will cease to be replenished by such as
love ill.
Of course, in a work professedly dealing with and ex-
plaining the principal, like this, it is impossible to enter
fully into specialities; that task is deferred till another
occasion.
No truer saying ever was uttered than that God helps
those who help themselves ;-a work which every one,
especiallythe mediumistic class, are especially called on
to perform.
There being two 'sides to everything, there is the,
same to mediumaship. The non-injurious kind is that
which I advocate, and it consists in the Blending pro.
cess already alluded to and, explained.'. No possible:

117

harm can result from it. Oii the contrary, the popular
sort, originating in the orient long centuries ago, and
now revived in these latter days, can but be injurious
to the last degree, because it consists in the usurpation
of the living by the UNKNOWN ! There is a better
way--a safer road, a thornless route-by means of
which to reach all the knowledge, and far more besides,
which is sought to be obtained by the other practice.
That surer means does not consist in an abandonment
of self, or stultification of the moral sense and will, nor
in Mesmerism, or .the use of hashish-the pestilent
thing-nor in the employment of any unhealthful
means, but in an increase and strengthening of will,
and consciousness, and moral purpose; not in a loss
of consciousness or responsibility, but in an intensifica-
tion and growth thereof. This better sort of spiritual-
ism is based upon the heart and soul; not, like the other
sort, upon the nerves and body. This better sort pro-
tects the sphere from the attacks, amatory and cerebral,
to which the acolytes of the other kind are subjected.
If people went direct to God for enlightenment, instead
of to Spirits, who so frequently deceive, there would be
much less, in fact no.evil at' all, resulting from the in-
tercours-e over the bridges of Time and Eternity ;, and,
by firmly relying on Him whose very existence thou-
sands of the inhabitants of the Middle State deny and
seput the bare idea of, people would not only be able to
preserve their odylic spheres intact, but would be pro-
teoted from the diabolic influence and machinations.of
the harpies who infest the Threshold, and,.frequently
deliver long and sounding platitudes from Rfh  ips of
shut-eyed members of the two sexes ; for they:'are not

v

I

DEALINGS wr,IPI THE DEAD.

0   f


118

DEALINGS WITL THE DEAD.

men and women yet, by a great- deal. No one is, who
yields the will and resigns both soul and body to any
spectral experimenter in phreno-mesmerism who may
chance to flit along, in their excursions 'up and down
the world,' and who are continually 'going to and fro
therein.' Reasonable people, whether of earth or higher
worlds, are beginning to weary of seeing and hearing
sensible-looking -men and women, with closed eyes,
pacing up and down a platform, and, with folly-driven
tongue, giving vent to 'philosophy' which neither God,
angels nor men can comprehend a word of !
Before long, something of the realities of the soul and
its hidden history will be known, and then ambitious
mouthers will no longer split the ears of the people
with senseless harangues-olla-podridas compounded of
moon-shine and nonsense-pseudo-philosophic hash, con-
cocted of fish, flesh and fowl-most foul, gammon of
Bacon and Swedenborg essences-whereof the great
Seer is as innocent as Peter the Hermit was of slaying
Abel. The time approaches .when a better state of
things shall exist, and more rational views of human
immortality bientertained by the masses. People have
made a great mistake in supposing that all the high-
flown stuff spoken, written or printed, as emanations
from the worlds beyond, were really true ; for much of
it originated in the brains of the deliverers thereof,
whilst more of it is but the result of tricky exploita-
tions of disembodied wags, or downright evil spirits.
Another and very popular error is, that the advent of
Spiritualism constitutes the opening dawn of a New
Dispensation ; that it is to supersede Christianity, or to
become the nucleoli of a new order of sects, or even the

I'

DEALINGS WITH .THE DEAD.

119

nucleus or pivot of a single one. No, no ; Spiritualism
has not yet produced fruit in the souls of its believers,
at all to be compared -to those growing on the tree
planted on the stony heights of Calvary nearly~ two
thousand: years ago ! It is, in itself, powerless to su-
persede a system so infinitely grand and sublime- as that
founded by the twelve fishermen and their illustrious
Lord. Nor is such its mission. Supply and demand wait
ever upon each other. The sense of human immortality,
in community, the wide world over, had grown dull,
vagueand indistinct, lulled by the droning music and
somnifying humdrum of ,theology. Churchianity to a
great degree. had usurped the office and functions of
Christianity, and the sense of an hereafter had so
nearly died .out, that bad advocates of, annihilation
preached and printed their infernal libels on the cor-
ners of the world's highway, and millions began to seri-
ously question wherein man was entitled to what ani-
inals were not ; while philosophic hucksters still, with
quirk and grimace, howled forth "Books-proving God a
myth, Christ a bastard, the Bible a lie, immortality a
lame delusion, and virtue mere nonsense 1" And then
- these peddlers bawled : "What pre-eminence hath a
man, above a brute ?. Wherein is, he better than the
dogs which perish ? Who knoweth the Spirit of a man
that it goeth upward, or the. spirit of abeast that it is
blotted out and goeth outward like an extinguished
. lamp, or. downward like a lead to the bottom of-non-
entity?  Come, buy my books.! come, buy my books I"
Surely here was a demand for. light upon the tre-
mendous. question, 'Are we to be, or not to be, when
life's fitful fever is o'e'r?' Here, was a question requir-

0

;tr
.,
_s
.
;.
Yf
Ji.
3       'S
eta
Y
_
s
_   #      ly
.
..
' :
-C
i~        41
. Y4      {:
^              VS
.          +
_


120

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

ing the lips of the infinite God to answer-and He did I
for with the weakest instruments He confounded earth's
greatest and wisest men. Through a harlot's daughter
was met and vanquished all opposers of His truth, that
"Death was not the destiny of man;' through a bar-
ber's clerk was revealed the Hierarchy of the vast
Heaven; through a country-school teacher was declared
the Order and the Majesty of Being; and through the
agency even of the wicked dead was demonstrated
man's continued life ! Spiritualism came, not as the su-
perseder of the Christ, but as the final demonstrator of
His truth. It came to transjise new energy into man.
and man's-religion ; it comes to point the better way,
and to foreshadow the radiant glories now beneath the
horizon; it comes saying, 'Prepare ye the way of the
Lord-make His paths straight by straightening thine
own 1' It comes to infuse new and glowing hope in
every heart bowed down ; and from the hill-tops and
the valleys of the world alike, it points man's vision
upward, and bids him, in the midst of all his trouble
and sorrow, to 'Remember, God is there,! up there !
In the steep and radiant sky He paints the picture of
the'YET To BE, and sending spiritual duplicates thereof a
to His children in their deep sleep, bids the .dreamer
behold them, treasure their memory, and to live-live
highly, purely ,obly, manfully ! Live, live, and die no
more forever .
Spiritualism-true Spiritualism-is 'one expression
and element of the soul of the age-an age whose body
is exceedingly corrupt ; and it so quickens the intui-
tions of some' of the watchers on the tower, that they
can already see the glimmer of the rising sun 'of glad-

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.           121
ness-a sun too, whose glorious beams will dissipate.
all the fogs and mists now bending over human heads,
and shutting out the light of higher heavens than op-
tician's glass can ever reveal. Aye, truly do some be-
hold the hither end of the bow of promise, and these are
singing the song of approaching joy:
The wiser time will purely come
.When this fine overplus of night,
No longer sullen, slow or dumb,
Shall leap to music and to light.
In that new childhood of thre world,
Life of itself shall dance and play,
Fresh blood througDTime's shrunk veins be hurled,
And Labor meet Delight half-way."
There can be no doubt but that the days of Evil by
God are numbered-those arising from    obsession in-
cluded.
Gazing still adown the lane of light, I- saw that a
process had been commenced in the soul of 'the man
upon the stage, who was about to .address the assem-
bled crowd-a process, too, which would ultimately set
him free-for already his sphere indicated the begin-
ning of the reparatory action ; and in precisely so. far
as he helped himself, and shook off the influence of
others, just so far did one or two attendant and ra-
diantly bright beings, of a high and pure order, assist
and protect him"; and, gazing upon the scroll of his des-
tiny, I saw that in five years from that day he would
complete his apprenticeship, and stand before the world
no longer an automaton, but a firm and- solid-minded
man ; that, no longe lecturing upon useless metaphysi-
cal abstractions, he would, for three years, preach the
gospel of truth and true Christianity, with a power and
effect never to be attained by human machines, but' only
6

,

Ia


122

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

by good, well-developed, unfolded, and harmonic souls.
*   * -a   *  Slowly the opening through which this
great practical drama was seen, and its beautiful teach-
ings conveyed to me, closed up, and once more I stood
solitary in the midst of my aural sphere. Looking now
toward the point wherefrom I had turned a little while
before, my eyes observed that the -apparent attack upon
its integrity was still going on ; but this was mechanical
only, for my mind was dwelling upon things of far more
interest and importance. Amongst other lessons gained
during the brief time that I had been dead to earth,
alive to a higher existence, wts this : The terrestrial
world itself is really spiritual, could mankind but per-
ceive it. For instance; every tree, shrub, flower, plant
and animal is not only possessed of an ideal and thought-
representative -value, but they are themselves essen-
tially spiritual ; for the bark, and leaves,.and woody
fiber, the flower-petals, and all that physical eyes be-
hold, are not the things they seem, but are merely the
outer-coats and coverings, the cloaks and garments which
the things themselves put on; the nature of the external
form being determined by alaw integral to the very thing
itself, just as a. picture is merely the physical embodi-
ment of an idea in the artist's mind. Unfavorable con-
ditions cramp some trees physically; but burn the wood, i
and the spirit of the tree is as perfect as the Infinite
One could fashion it. So also with human trees. tn-
teriorly, many men and women are better than they
seem, and many are worse. Still, be it remembered,
that beauty andsymmetry is natural to trees, even though
storms, and snow, and fierce winds dismember and ren-.
der them hideous ; so also virtue and goodness is natu-
ral to the human soul, while vice and deformity are

t
1
e
u
.T
^, Y
ei9
i
4

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

123

artificial and conditional acquisitions. A-man may lose
an eye, leg, arm, be disfigured by accident or disease
to an extent that will render him hideous to all em-
bodied beholders; but let him die, or, while living, be
gazed at by spiritual beings, and his legs, arms, eyes-
the whole man stands revealed in all his true propor-
tions.* This discovery gave me joy, indeed; for I had
known some whose disfigurements had pained me ex-
ceedingly. No maimed forms ascend from gory fields
of battle ; no crippled people inhabit the Soul-worlds.
Thank God for that ! True, in the regions midway,
there are many who, being insane, or immersed in phan-
tasies, insist on appearing as they were on earth, or
even in worse plight; but this is not necessarily so, any
more than the grimaces of a clown or mountebank are
the natural expressions of his features. By this time I
had also learned that, with the exception stated pre-
viously. in reference to the essences of things, the two
worlds-earthly and spiritual-were in scarce any one
thing alike, as had been taught by those whole books
upon the subject I had lost so much valuable time in
reading--finely written and eloquent books, truly.---
yetrafter all, I found them now to be filled with':
1       "Rich windows that exclude the light
And passages that lead to--nothing."
My, experience demonstrated that the two worlds are
not equgl, contimjous, or even resemblaut.  In fact,
they, being .disparates, many failures must necessarily
be made in attempting,-in the present state of the lan-
guages at least, to convey adequate verbal representa-1
* A man's spiritual form may be cut, shot, or slashed through ten
thousand times, yet never bullet or knife will injure him; and this for
reasons already 'set forth in earlier pages of this book.

Af


124         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
tions of things above to' those below-not with the col-
loquial and literary, nor even with the aid of modern
philosophical, scientific, metaphysical nor theological
tecinics now in use amongst thinkers. But the people
are longing for information respecting the soul's condi-
tion subsequent to its departure from the rudimental
scene ; they want to know what a soul is, where it goes,
how it gets there, and what are its environments thereaf-
ter ; consequently the essay to impart the required in-
formation must be made, even at the risk of adding to
the hundred failures already made. The word VAST, for
instance, when I -apply it in the description about to be
given, is not to be understood in the sense of enormoud-
ness, but in a different one altogether. Well then, in
a short time, the side of the sphere yielded to the ap-
plied force, and broke completely in two from top to bot-
tom, and the two sides instantly thereafter resolved them-
selves into a vast. archway-vast in beauty, grandeur,
color, form and symbolic meaning. Toward the invit-
ing passage thus presented, as if impelled by an invisi-
ble, but powerful force, I slowly moved involuntarily.
Upon reaching it, the entire sphere seemed to draw
into me. I stepped over the threshold ; turned to look
at it-but, lo1 it had vanished.
This taught me a lesson. I saw that if one chose to
do so, he migh;, while on earth, and in the Middle State,
draw his sphere within him, and lie concealed in the
deeps of his own being, unreadable by any, save God
and the dwellers of the Soul-world. This is effected at
first by strong efforts of the will,-(both Napoleons are
illustrative instances),-which soon becoming a habit,
is effected by the soul mechanically. At first, upon find-
ing myself alone, and my sphere absorbed, I could not

t
.
.}
{T
i
I   .

v    i  ,Ar
q it   ;'
I
1
L

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.          125
comprehend the celestial magic by means of which it
was effected. No opportunity,'however, was then af-
forded for investigations of the mystery, for a crowd of
new marvels rolled on me, in such quick succession,
that all my soul became at once deeply engaged. 'y
vision was clear, distinct. and far-reaching, and thou.
sands of objects existed upon all sides to attract it. The
scene was the realization of the fairest, brightest Ar-
cadie of which wrapt poet ever dreamed, Hundreds upon.
hundreds of the most beautiful of human creatures that
imagination ever pictured were there, in all the glory
of aflte in Heaven. Not a line of care or sorrow traced
its course upon a single cheek or brow of the vast mul-
titudes who. thronged the glades and gardens'of that
wondrous realm. It was the actuality of the fairest
ideal of earth's noblest poet, and something more ; for
there was a nameless something about it that earth can
never give. Magnificent and lofty trees, the movement
of whose very leaves was sweetest music ; streams of
living water, whose ripples flashed back ten thousand'
magic'hues of loveliness, to a stately but unmoving Sun
in the mid-heaven ; flowers of rare conformation, whose.
colors and fragrance put earthly roses to the blush, un-
folded their glory-cups to God's bright sentinel, and
praised His name in incense-offerings; bowers of shrubs,
resplendent meadows, stately groves, adgwn the sylvan
glades of which scores of merry children trooped, and
soul-wed lovers wandered, were a few gp( t$ e think
upon which I gazed in a raptness whsri6SE   s niay
conceive, but which to colder souls will bemysteries
for long. Splendid palaces towered in the distance,
while near at hand, on the green banks of many a sing-
ing brook, numberless cottages gemimed the scene.


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

Even animals were there-some of familiar and well-
known forms, some of new and singular shape and pe-
ouliar grace. Birds-rare-birds, of the most brilliant
plumage, played amidst the trees, and warbled songs of
strange melody and meaning. Such, and a thousand
other things beside, not one of which I had ever ima-
gined to exist, were constituents of the scene upon which
my eye now rested for the first time, Taken as a
whole, the entire vivorama was; in its nature and ef-
fect, at that time, incomprehensible, and at first some-
what oppressive ; but this latter feeling was very ephem-
,eral, and gave place to a delight, at once pure, deep
and unalloyed.
When thisscene first birst upon me, my attitude was
one of unmingled surprise, and I retained it all the while
my soul was drinking in the glory. Casting my eyes
groundward, the vision rested upon an opake, cloud-like
soil ; and while inwardly wondering whether the soil
was really what it seemed to be, or not, I heard my
name called in well-remembered tones. Turning has-
tily, I found the sounds came from a grove hard by,
whence three persons were seen approaching me. They
drew nearer, and I had no difficulty in recognizing one
of the comers to be Nellie. I knew her by her general
air, not from the appearance of her person; for that was
entirely change, and no longer appearing a mere child,
she looked to have reached the happy medium state
wherein the girl just begins to be the woman. She was
very pretty when she had assumed the status of a child,
but now she fairly blazed with a beauty most transcend-
ent. By her side moved a young and noble-looking
man, yet one around whom there floated an atmosphere'

4.

of Power, Will, and Intenseness, that inspired me at first
with something very akin to awe.
His garb was decidedly oriental, and became his fea
tures wonderfully, while at the same time it imparte&amp;a.
freedom and grace, that added to, instead of detracting
from his dignity. Observing that I scrutinized his ap-
parel, he smiled, and glanced sidewise at my own. I
did the same, and it flashed upon me instantly that my-
self, instead of being habited after the fashion of the
Occident, I to others must present the appearance of a
sultana of the ancient East. Again my eye met his,
and in that meeting there was a mingling too, for I felt
and knew that he was mine, and I his own ; that we
two were henceforward to be as one-for a period at
least, if not forever. Poor me-I did not then know
how long' forever' is. On earth, in love affairs, the
term means two months, more or less. It stands for a
longer period here, yet does not include the categories
of all the eternities-quite. - I had forgotten that states
constitute the marks of duration in the Soul-worlds, and
not the tickings of a clock ; but so inveterate is the
force of habit and ideal associations, that at first'it was
almost impossible to predicate sequences-upon anything
else than lapse of time, or to dissociate the memories of
the past, and the menstruum of the events whereof they
are the shadowy records, from thy reaties of the then pre-
sent, and the action of the New Pigipia operative in the
Soul-world. Besides this, I had bienetheretofore deeply
tinctured with the folly-essence, so mueh of which has
been distilled by modern eolists, and wouldbe philoso-
phers, to addle the brains of sensible people; and to
dilute what little of common sanse themselves-the
eolists-might chance to possess. I had with thousands

L t y
J
0
'.s
I,
4                      q
k

127

126


128       ,         WDALINGS WITH THE DE1D.

of others believed that the doctrine of 'eternal affinities'
was true ; and that every one would somewhere meet
with a congenial partner, in whose society all the com-
ing cycles of Time would be joyously passed. I have
outgrown that folly long since. The doctrine is a false
one for -this brief reason. God alone is infinite. No
human being is infinite, save in capacity for acquire-
ment ; therefore the human soul must be fed by that
alone which is superior in its nature, at every stage of
its growth, progress or unfoldment ; for. which reason
no one soul can forever supply the demands of another.
No two souls develop in equal or parallel lines, or at
the same rate, for which reason one must outgrow its
affinities for another ; besides which marriage in the
Soul-world is an entirely different institution, as to its
nature condition, purpose, result and effect, to what it
is on earth. Lust and passion, selfish interests, and ten
thousand other things pertain to marriage on the earth,
which enter. not at all into that of the loftier stages of
human existence. On earth, at best, love and affection
are plebeian. In the Soul-worlds they are imperial!
In the former these things go begging-in the latter,
never. On earth the person loving often embalms the
loved one in his or her own sphere, and then clings to
the worthless thing thus infiltrated, thus loving the self
and not another. Being therefore all on one side, there
is no mutuality. Such is not the case in the Sunny
Land!
The glowing son of the Orient drew near to me, and
I to him.. Our spheres touched ; they blended-and in
an instant I knew more-of what love and tenderness
really meant, than- in all the long years I had lived
before.

vt

When first gazing on my reflected image in the flodr-
mirror, I had suspected the nature and fervor of the
regal passion; but now, as he touched me--as our
spheres blended, and strange thrills went bounding and
dancing through every avenue of my being, I realized
that not one half of the reality had ever been imagined,
even in a remote degree.
Among people of the higher orders in human society,
the testimony of the 'hear-says' is not regarded as being
of the most satisfactory or convincing kind. This book
and those which are to follow it, is, and will be, ad-
dressed only to those who think and feel for themselves;
are intended for those who can pierce through tie mere
formalism of narrative and statement, to the solid' prin-
ciples underlying them. And for this reason, therefore,
have I forborne to repeat many strange and wonderful
things told ine by him who now stood at my right side
notwithstanding that such repetitions would be deeply
interesting to those people who believe they have im-
mortal souls, but are not quite certain of that fact. It
is better to tell what I saw, felt, learned and experi-
enced, than to relate what others told' me.
I may remark, en passant, that the sentence ' stood
bymy side' appeared to be well founded; for although
I knew my comrades to be spirits, yet they were to me
.quite as really and palpably human; as was the mother
at whose dear breast I drew in life many a long year
ago.
Mention has been made of the fact that' knowledge
comes to a person in the higher life, just in proportion
to that person's fitness for its reception, the Use in
the great economy which it will subserve, and the Good
that it will do. I was now in a -condition to be taught

-DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.     129


180

DEALINGS WITH THE. DEAD.

and therefore the doors of the soul's knowledge-cham-
bers were swung wide upon their hinges, so to speak,
and into them the following answers flowed naturally
and sweetly, in response to self-propounded questions
concerning all that had transpired since my emerge-
neent from the interior of my personal into the general
sphere of that portion of the immense Soul-world where-
in I now found myself. It has already beenstated, and
understood by the reader, that the sphere in which the
memoramie tableaux moved across its diameter, was the
personal out-surrounding of the individual. Precisely
the same, with the exception of being on a vastly gran-
der scale, was this new Soul-realm whereof I had be-
come an inhabitant. The fact is, I had been in it from
the dawn of the second hour of my disembodiment, only
that the opacity of my vision and the walls of my sphere
had prevented me from realizing it, just as a person with
nebulous eyes is unaware of the glories of a landscape
in the midst of which he stands, alongside of a friend
whose eyes are clear and good, and whose soul fairly
dances with rapture as he scans the sea of' loveliness,
which is all shut out from. the other.
Ali truths go in couples. I had just discovered one,
and its mate very soon thereafter appeared. It was this:
-What I had thought to be an attempt to break down
the walls of my circumvallated sphere, prove now not ,f
to have been the- work of another, but was the result of
the operation of a natural law of the soul-that of IN-
TROMISSION; but which law does not act until after cer-
tain others have -effected peculiar changes in the indi-
vidual-just as grace and resignation succeed the tumult
and agony of repentance and remorse. This law of in-.
tromission finds its humble analogy in the grub and

4

t
!  r
" .
9-
r /
t
.
f

131

subsequent gold-winged butterfly; and also in the
chick, whose tiny bill perforates its hard surrounding
stone-and-mortar sphere-for it batters and pecks at
the sides of its prison-shell and cell when the process of
incubation is nearly finished, whereupon the bird en-
ters upon a 'new phase of existence ; and so also does
the human soul, when its period is completed. All Na-
ture is a system of births.
These things are stated and these principles laid
down, in order to undeceive those who have accepted as
true the many crude and materially defective hypotheses
purporting to come from 'Royal Circles' in the Soul-
world, through scores of modern eolists. My design is
to show the rightly dying what they must expect when
rightly dead. True, there is an increasing number of
Spiritualists and others who accept the revelations of
mediums oi the principle interdum stultus bene, loqui-
tur; yet there are others who accept nine-tenths of
what purports to-come from the worlds beyond, merely
because of its claim. Truth will bear its own weight;
if not now, then in the course of coming time ; still it
is ever and always best for every one to reason well on
every proposition or statement offered as coming from
the world of spirits-this book's contents, of course, in-
chded. Amongst other notions, which along with my
co-believers on earth I had imbibed, was that which
declares the Spirit-land to be a fixed revolving zone-
a sort of second edition of the earth and its adjuncts.
I had expected to find my last home on one of those
aerial belts, occupying space just as a town or city does.
What an error ! No two antipodal things can be more
unlike--for I found that all' the untold magnificence
that now lay outspread befQre en  wasjust as ny former

'I,4

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.


° G
.:
;
;
ft°
a :'
,, .
~ 5 .',a
it'.

A


132        DEALINGS WITH THE DEeA.

sphere, but the general out-creation, elimination or pro-
jection from the countless hosts of beatified and radi-
ant souls who dwell together and create their own
scenery and surrounding, just as a man creates chateaux
en espagne, only that in this latter he exists forever on
the outside-in the former, dwells within them. In
other words, the realm whereof I was an inhabitant
was not physical in any sense, nor were any of its sub-_
jects or objects ; neither were - they, phantasmal, but
were spiritual, in the.sublijne sense of that much abused
term ; and although not permanant or fixed, as. is a
town on earth, yet were none the less true and real.
In order to better comprehend what sort of a place*
is that world wherein I met Nellie and mine, it will be
well if the reader remember that everything save
thought is perishable. For instance you have a thought
of a pink satin dress, made up in a peculiar style ; your
father has a thought of, a new cottage, complete in all
its parts ; your brother invents a' neW-modelled car-
riage for your mother's use ; while your farmer invents
a new building, which will serve at once for carriage-
house and barn-and all four of you forthwith proceed
to realize your several ideals ; and in a month the new
barn stands upon the brookside, the new cottage-peeps
forth from its bower of elns, the new carriage rolls
along; and in it, clad in your pink satin, you enjoy a
ride with the dear old mother. Three days thereafter
ttIe cottage and barn catch fire, and the dress and car-
riage become ashes, and so do all your patterns and
models ; yet your thoughts are living, still fresh as
ever, and all that is necessary, is for all four of you to
once more embody them in material garb, and in an-
other month P stranger, having seen the first and not

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.          133
knowing of the catastrophe, would swear that whatnow
he beheld was the same formerly so much admired-
and he would be right. The ideas arethe same, albeit
the material raiment is not. John Doe is still John
Doe, whether in rags or riches ; why not, then, John's
thought be the same ?
It will be well to remember that GOD IS A' THINKE--
that the vast material universe is the visible result ohn
single effort of a single faculty-organ of the Deific brain,
and-tremendous thought !-that faculty-organ will yet
make myriads of new movements, each one followed by
results still more stupendous and magnificent than the
vast array of starry suns which now light up the Halls
of Silence and of Space! Again: the spiritual or rathe1-
the thinking part of man is all there is of permanency
about the human being. His body is the sport of Death,
and his aid-je-canip Disease ! but his soul can never be
touched by the former, nor forever be harmed by the lat-
ter! for soul is not to be pernanently injured by any
power subservient t: the infinite God. All there is of
man is his thought-power ; the THINK is himself. By
this we know him; and he who gives forth most of him-
self, if he be bad, does the most injury to the species and
the world. If he be good, such an one lives longest inn
mei's hearts, on historic page, and in the traditions of
the race.
The Spiritual Universe ! What a mighty eoncep-
tion ! And yet, even that, grand as it is-for all 'the
material globes of space, chained together, are, after
all, but a mere little'island floating, like a bottle, upon
the crest of a single wavelet of the Infinite Seal!-yet,
even that Spiritual Universe itself, with its amaz-
ing soUL REALMS, made up of countless Soul-systems,


134        DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

each of which latter is composed of the blended spheres
of innumerable millions of separate dualities-even all
this-all these, I say, are but the result of a single effort
of another distinct faculty-organ of the GREAT BRAIN;
yet even this grand result will be surpassed by every
one of the myriad efforts thatsame faculty-organ is des-
tined to put forth. And when it shall have moved more
times than there are stars in the sky, grains of 'sand
upon the sea-shores, leaves in the forests, or aspirations
in the, human soul-greater than all-the end will not
be even foreshadowed, nor God's laboratory one whit
exhausted! Man himself, generically speaking, wher-
ever localized beneath the bending dome of the imperial
Heaven, is but the result of another single effort-of
another single organ of faculty. For although man is
nidulated in' and developed to personal'11istinctness
through matter, yet the very nature- of the thinking
principle at once forbids the assumption that it sprung
from any combination of material essences, howsoever
subtle they may be, and at once explodes the spiritual-
istic doctrine that matter continues on into spirit. No;
soul is discreted from matter by a -gulf so wide that an
infinite vaccuum exists between the coarsest -soul and
the most sublimated etherial vapor that ever resulted,
or ever will result, from molecular attrition or chemical
resolution. Individual monads-all men and women-
are scintillas or parts, of this third great thought of the
Mighty Thinker, God ; they are corruscations from The
Over-Soul, while Matter is constituted of etherial ema-
nations from God's Infinite Body.*] Now every exist-
* I regret that the limits adjudged to this volume will not permit
an amplification of this part of our subject.: It must abide the next
book.--Author.

ence represents a thought of Deity; so also man thinks
himself in his actions, .and fills the world with his
thoughts, variously clothed,; some in iron, steel, wood,
paper, ivory, cloth, palaces, engines, ships, houses, parks,
gardens, and so on ; so, also, after his disembodiment,
will he surround himself with soal-created forms, whose
aspect, shape and texture depends altogether on the
cleanliness and purity'of the loom wherein these mental
fabrics are, woven. The sole difference between the
creations of the mortal and post-mortem artificer is,
that, instead of arraying them in gross or coarse ma-
terial, as on earth, he in the Soul-worlds, fashions the
garments of such stuff as thoughts themselves are made
of; or, to give it still clearer, each thought possesses an
inherent vitality of its own, as also form, proportion,
and coherence. Thus, if an engineer thinks a. locomo-
tive, all he has to do. in order to impress his thought
on others, is- to give it a suit of iron, brass and steel to
wear, and, lo! all the world hails, and triumphantly ac-
knowledges the worth of the offspring of his deathless
soul.
Just as soon. as the man has placed metallic parts
where only mental ones were previously, all the people
see it, feel it, know it to be an ewj's to say,
an incarnate thought of a certain eni
Now, take notice all ye who think, t - fined
glories of the separate sections of the grld
are constituted of the general projections   sem-
bodied order, or section of an order, that o   the
society around whom the sphere is seen. Therare
myriads of these societies; and no one belonging to so-
ciety A can enter the sphere of society B, notwithstand-
ing both may belong to the same general order. True,

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.      Y


136        DEALINGS WITH THF4 DEAD.

people can visit each other there as well as anywhere
else. But visitors may not be'equa1s for all that. In
each society will be found those who love and affect
birds ; and just as sure as he or she has a bird in the
soul, just so sure will that bird be born thereof, and be-
come, to all intents and purposes (except begetting its
kind) a veritable bird. Others love trees, rivers, castles,
brooks, hills, dales, vales, vineyards, gardens, groves,
cottages, palaces, mountains, animals, and so on, through
an interminable list, and interminable combinations of
what that list may contain.
Whatever be the ideal of a man or community, just
so will be the out-sphering thereof. Thus, Mohammed
(and the' Orientals generally) loved woman, for the
sake of the :sense-gratifications she- was found capable
of imparting. Accordingly, when his soul was trans-
figured, it went directly to that section of the Soul-
world where were congregated those like unto him-
self; and, when he came back, he fired his partizans
with the deepest and wildest enthusiasm ever known
on earth, by telling them that the women of Paradise
were fairer than the full moon, more lovelythan the
dawn, and that every mother's son of the faithful should
be rewarded there, for all their earthly sorrows, by the
absolute possession of the moderate number of seventy
thousand houris.
Mohamied was not a liar nor an impostor; he told what
he believed to be truth. His houris, like the birds and
beasts just spoken of, were out-creations of -the sensual-
istic mind of the sphere into which 1e rode on the sad-
dle of Al Borak. Every man or woman's mind is an
empire, and the higher the position each occupies upon
the plane of the Harmonead, the more extensive is the

I

y^
It
is
4-Y
K-

I

i

DEALINGS WITH THf DEAD.          137
domain over which they hold imperial sway. The same
laws which govern an individual, also rule a commu-
laity ; for a man is a man only to such extent as he
prophecies and represents something higher and better
than the present status, The observance of law, by
persons and en masse, may be voluntary or habitual, or
not. This being understood, it is no marvel that the
things resident in the general mind should be objectified
therearound as in the case of a single person, nor that
in the former, as in the latter case, the things thought
of should be present, as well as those which are purely
symbolic and representative of the general state the
general love, the general affections and aspirations of
the general mind.
As this and similar light flowed into myasoul, that
soul involuntarily thanked the Giver for such amazing
exhibitions of his loving kindness and careful provi-
dence. I could now understand many things that were
before quite mysterious, and, amongst others, why Net-
lie and Mine had at first shown themselves to me under
the guise of Youth and Age. It was to all the quicker win
my esteem and confidence, each of which are prime ele-
ments both of friendship and love. Previous to my
change, I had often tried to analyze this last-named sen-
timent or passion (as you will), as it exists amongst the
people of the world. The result of that analysis was,
'Love is a mixed passion ; its orbit is elliptical-friend-
ship is at one of the foci, and lust at the other.'. Now,
however, as my enraptured vision swept the plains of
immortality, I found that in the Soul-world it was some-
thing more,*'but that its essential earthly character re-
* In the succeeding volume, the reader will be carried into a new


138

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

mained the same in the Middle States-nor merely spiritu-
al kingdom. With penetrating glance I swept the fields
of earth, and the result was a complete conviction ht
ninety-five one-hundredths of that which goes by love'
tender, gentle name, was a compound of three constitu-
ents-Parentalism, Amative desire, and the softer ele-
ment, Friendship. Hence sex, and what comes of it on
earth, is at best but the most coarse and external ex-
pression of a great soul-law, which can only -fully de-
monstrate itself in those who are in no one respect abnor-
mal or diseased. Sex really means more than people
even remot1y suspect. In the Soul-world it does not
serve the same purposes as on earth. There, sex is of
mind-on earth it is of the body mainly. I had sup-
posed it to be a-fixed physical principle ; and so it is,
but itgis also something more-for in the higher. realms
of human being, where everything expresses itself as it
really is, and passes at its true value, it is found that
many who, as if by accident, had worn the physical
characteristics of one, were.really, at soul, of the oppo-
site sex. For instance, Male means Energy, Wisdom,
Knowledge, Power, Creation, UsE-Female is the syno-
nym of Music, Beauty, Love, Purity, Harmony, Goon.
Now let two such meet in the Soul-world, and if they
are adapted to each other, their, spheres-nay, their
very lives-blend together ; the result of which is mu-
tual improvement, purification,.gratification, enjoyment,
and happiness--which state of bliss continues until new
unfoldings from within shall unfit them for the further
continuance of the union ; whereupon there is a mutual
Soul-region, of which Love is the key ; and then the world will see
what a vast deal of knowledge exists of which man has never heard.
Pos.

0

a
:r
.  .
Y
t
r
4
f
r
d

139

separation-not because they love each other less, but
some other one the more ; and that other one, be its
'male or female, is certain to be ready for the reception
of the new love. There is no jar, no ill-feeling, no dise
cord about it. Some of these unions may last for what
to man may seem to be long ages, but what the final
result will be I have not space here to mention:
It often happens that human bodies are so diseased,
and by mal-practice so distorted from their true uses,
that pure and genuine love cannot express itself--.
wherefore it soon becomes a sealed mystery, and Pas-
sion usurps Love's holy throne. He or she whose nerves
have become ruined, either by grief or excess, opium,
rum, tobacco, Mesmerism,-,Oppression, .Neglect, and
things of that. order, can never taste the ineffable joys
of love that attend on those who in such regard are
healthy.
Love has beonneither -a boyish or girlish sentiment,
else a sort. of spasmodic fever, which possession speedily
and forever chills.
In human society it has become a purchasable com-
modity. Women sell themselves for gew-gaws-for a
home-to escape parental tyranny and unjust espionage.
Men buy them, and think they are gaining love-not
realizing that joys or pleasures bought at any price are
not the realities for which the bargain was made, but
only counterfeits, which all too soon demonstrate theit-
own worthlessness. Buy a woman ! purchase a man !
bargain for. love! How much is Sunshine worth a
quart ? How does Goodness sell by the barrel? It is
very easy for either man or woman to buy each other's
garments, but the souls beneath them must be won by
wooing. Physical possession never yet satisfied a soul,

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.M


DEALINGS ,WITH THE DEAD.

and never will.  Soul naturally shrinks from  scales,
weights, measures,, and yard-tapes ; and it quite as in-
tensely despises all protestation. Why? Because pure
love is undemonstrative. Demonstration proceeds from
volition, but love flows from a fountain altogether back
of will. People may be proud of their property, but the
human can have no true deep joys, save such as spring
from love, pure, strong, earnest, spontaneous and recip-
rocal. Whatever is not thus based is distasteful to the
soul in. its higher moods. Joys of a tumultuous charac-
ter, such as spring from impulsiveness and passion, are
both short-lived and exhaustive ; and the pestilent brood
of anger, jealousy, hatred, disgust and trouble, ever and
always foflow in their train-priests of Misery, prime
ministers ef Evil ! On the other hand, pure manly,
womanly,-human love, is recuperative, re-creative-is a
virtue-exhilarant, tonic of good,' vice-dispellant, and
health-promotive ; while contentmeggf heart,-peace of
mind, security, trust, calmness and lerenity, are its at-
tendant ministers. God, who made us, well knows that
there is more of good than evil in our hearts, by virtue
of our ancestry-Nature and Himself ; yet, for His own
grandly-purposed end, He permits us all to wade to
Heaven through the malarious swamps of hell I-permits
us all to experiment and suffer, in order .that we mfay
grow powerful and strong, and thus be fitted for the
tremendous destiny that awaits all who wear the human
form on the thither side of Time. People feel before
they think, and the act of one single impulsive moment
not seldom enshrouds an entire life in gloom. Have
mercy, therefore-always ! Mere thinking without.feel-
ing is quite as bad-nay, worse ; for it freezes up the
fountains of the soul ! Something will grow and blos-

140

s
i
F

som even on an arid desert ; but the iceberg is never
gladdened by the presence and growth of one green
thing upon its crystal sides-not even moss. So with
soul ! It is bad to sin from impulse, but far worse to
do wrong from settled purpose. There are two classes
of persons who err. Those who do so from no evil in-
tent at heart, soon vastate their load, and become resi-
dents of the Soul-world ; those who sin from the head,
pass into the Middle State and become the infesting de-
mons of modern spiritual mediums:
The deepest wrongs of human existence are those
against the inward soul and sense of right. Illustra-
tion : Whatsoever earthly 'couple shall a ume the
dreadful responsibility, not only of imbitt . g each
other's lives, but of incarnating a family of sou  in dis-
cordant bodies, inevitably fashion a hell-sphere for
themselves in' the  ddle State, whence they shall not
go forth until th termost farthing is paid. The re-
cent partial uplifting of the veil separating earth from
regions beyond, has had the effect of removing the
sense of accountability from the minds of a great many
people, who, having conversed with the dead through
raps and tips, and hearing no valid accounts of a burn-
ing lake of literal fire and brimstone, straightway fall
- to laughing at the devil, and snap their fingers at the
bare idea of hell. If they could but realize that Devil
means Badness, and Hell is the synonym of suffering
and self-inflicted torture, the laugh would not be quite
so loud and long, nor the finger-snapping near so fre-
quent, as at present.
Such persons reason very superficially-in this re.
spect following the lead of one of their "self-elected
Prophets, a Regent of Hell itself, and Earthly Prime

D'EALINGs WITH THE DEAD.

141


142        DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

Minister to all the chief fiends of the Middle States-
and leap to the, conclusion that all a man's sins are
atoned for while embodied-that he is not to be pun-
ished at all after death ; and hence they cut off all re-
straiding- cords, give a loose rein to boasting and lying,
and solace themselves and blind others with the absurd
sophism that 'Whatever is, is right'-murder, robbery,
eoncubinage, divorcing two, three, or a .dozen, for the
sake of obscene dalliance, and semi-legal infamy-are,
just the thing to rid the world of evil and make society
a, bond of fraternal fellowship And such a system
dares to' call itself 'Spiritual,' ' Harmonial, 'Reform-
atory'! It does. But, thank God ! the days of.Pseudo-
Spiritua ,m, in whose train myriads of insanities,
wrongs, rreligions of all pestilent sorts, non-immortal-
ism,' and a host of importations from, the pit,:follow as
harlots follow an army,scattering d h, horror and de-
vastation on every hand ! Yes, k Heaven! te
false will soon be succeeded by a true and godly Spir-
itualism; and instead of being possessed and obsessed
by the maleficent harpies from the mid-region, as is too
often the case now, people will be enlightened, in-
structed and saved from ruin, instead of being plunged
therein ; for the noble, the true, the religious and pure
spirits, from realms where God's presence sanctifies all
hearts, will come to aid man in his hour of greatest
need. The true spiritualization will bring peace on
earth and good will among men, instead of hatred be-
tween couples, and absurd envyings and jealousies,
amongst mediums and believers ; it will effect the de-
struction of all spiritualistic and philosophic preterice,
the current sophistry of ' All-rightism;' pretentious cant
and mock philanthropy, whereof so'much now floats

"D"       DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.         14
upon the surface of the singular sea called,, falgely,
'Spiritualism.' A man is no more a Spiritualist b.
-cause he believes in physically demonstrated immor-
tality, than a child is a horse because born in a stable.,
If people cannot be Spiritualists without submitting
to the pestilent control of wretches from the sMiddle
State, or without losing conscience, virtue, and moral
cleanliness, they had better let the whole subject alone,
and rest as contented as may be with the faith and
creeds bequeathed by their ancestors. It will not do to
meddle with things so mysterious as Spiritualism, in its
nature, influence and results, unless perfectly fortified
in Qod, with a strong and holy purpose and a resolute
and unbending will.
As I gazed out upon the surrounding gloi sof my
new world, I could not forbear or repress a desire, if
possible, to take one glatice at those who yet dwelt in
infamy, although#%sejbodied. This wish, though a
silent one, was perceived by 'him who stood near me.
Sadly, mournfully, he gazed down into my soul, made
no reply in words, but slowly placing me betweenhim-
self.and Nellie, who had been joined by one to whom
she was very dear indeed, directed our step' towards
the pleasant grove before alluded to. Passing swiftly
through this, we. soon came to its outer verge, from
which, to my utter astonishment, we could look down
into a very gulf of horrors, as if from the edge of a
frightful, precipice. I knew that I stood upon the bor-
ders of THE MIDDLE- STATE. Believing that mOre is to
be gained by descriptions of the good and excellent than
by exciting the horror of deformity, I forbearin this
introductory volume, to recount the terrors of the Iful
Hell of the vicious and the self-damned soul.

0


144         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
Suffice it that I beheld scenes of lust, insanity, de-
bauchery, and all vileness, sulliciently dreadful to appal
the stoutest heart of any sane one who dwells in the
same awful phantasies, insanities and evils. Around
the heads of those who wandered up and down its noi-
some lanes and alleyways, were wreaths of twining,
writhing serpents, instead of crowns and coronets of
light. There were many who believed in literal hells
of fire, and such were surrounded by spheres of flame,
and therein must burn and suffer so long as the fearful
phantasy shall last, and till they be' redeemed by self-
effort. Drunkards, libertines, gamblers-all evil things
and persons were there, along with atheists and other
intellectual sinners. - On an eminence in the midst of
the deepest and most fearful hell, I saw the exact image
of one of earth's so-called great philosophers ; and it
was given me to know that the man there represented
was doomed, when his life on earth shall be ended, to
expiate his terrible offences against God, nature, reli-
gion, and his own conscience, and his fellow-men, by
sufferings too terrible to be adequately described.
"Men know the right, and well approve it too ;  ,
They know the wrong, and yet the wrong pursue."
So with the philosopher. The man knew better than
he taught ; and when he. dies, unless he shall repent,
his doom is a hell whose terrors are indeed fearful; nor
will he be able to emerge thence, before the cries of his
scores of thousands of deluded victims, some of4 whom
have been driven to vice, crime, insanity and suicide by
his execrable teachings, shall be changed into appeals
to God in his behalf.
One of the punishments after death consists in atoning

e.
«1,
., ,
r4
Y
_!1
Y
4,
l
F
t
"7y
.4
x

.  DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.       ,,   5
for one's bad and baleful influence while on earth; and
the more extensive this has been, the morefearful ;the
penalty self-inflicted therefor. The man who has taught
millions that God is a revengeful being; that He;ever
stands ready to hurl ruin and destruction on the wp14;
to rain.literal fire and brimstone on the earth, and this
frighten people into woe and insanity, must -abide the
consequences, and in the world beyond be compelled to
face the dreadful music himself may have evoked. And
so with others, let their influence be what itmay. Eter-
nal justice rules the destiny of mankind ; and sooner or
later its behests must and will be accomplished.
I turned in affright from the horrible scene, but not
without reaping a mental treasure fom what I had
beheld, both of the Soul-world and the Middle-state. It
will be remembered that I had asked certain questions,
which were not responded to. These questions, and
others had been uppermost in my mind all along, and
now as our faces were once again turned toward the
bright scenes of the Soul-world, I realized that neither
it nor its fearful antipodes were absolute fixtures or
fixities. The human soul is kaleidescopic. The scenes
it forever conjures up before it from out its mighty deeps,
and by which it is surrounded, are constantly and for-
ever changing, no matter whether its locality be on
earth, in the mid-region of the great world's atmosphere,
on the confines of the two great states, embodied Or
free ; or whether it be a dweller in the city of divine
souls, the law is the .same and incessantly operative.
Change is written on all things ; and although in' es-
sence soul can never alter, yet its moods and phases
constantly do, else Hell would be a permaneiity, Earth
stand still, and Heaven itself grow monotonous. In

rf


146         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
accordance with this principle, therefore, no scene in
-   the Soul-world is a permanency, but as soon as one has
produced all the joy it can to those from whom it is an
outgrowth or projection, it changes, but ever toward
the higher and more resplendent.
One question there was, of great weight and import-
ance,,which I asked of my soul, and to which a response
aftpr a time flowed in. It was this.: Do spiritual beings
live eternally as distinct entities, or are they after a
time absorbed into Deity, as the higher .Brahmins and
other orientalists maintain?  The reply to this was:
Reasoning from what any human being knows, no matter
how lofty he niay be in intellect, the decision arrived at
must be conjectural at best ; for whether we are to be
forever, can only be known to Him who taketh no one
into his counsels. But reasoning from what we already
know concerning the nature of soul, mind, thought, and
capacity, the inference is plain that no absolute absorp-
tion will ever take place, but that the double-unit man
will forever preserve his distinct and marked person-
ality.
Are idiots immortal ? Answer-All that is born of
human parents, all beings who took their external forms
through the agency. and channels of the male brain,
nerves, prostate and testes, and the female matrix, are-
necessarily immortal.
Question-But animals have been impregnated by
male brutes of the human species, and human females
have borne offspring to brutes-if human medical testi-
mony,,and the confessions of parties implicated are to
be credited; but whether such cases have or have not
.     occurred, suippose it were to take place, would -such off-
spring, whether begotten of, or by an animal, one of the

DEALING WITH 'THEDEAD.
parents being undoubtedly' human, be immortal?  An-
swer-As monsters, no I Idiots, both of whose parents
are human, are essentially immortal. idiotcy isbut
another name for weakness; and a monad havingOiCO.
put forth its powers sufficient to build ;itself a full i-
man body,no matter how imperfect, must necessarily' put
forth more of its inherent energies, if not in one world
or sphere, then in another, in the nurseries of the Soul-
world; and as it grows strong it gradually approadlies
the, point of self-ness-the Ego will be attained. It is
only a question of tiie and condition. Not so with
semi-brutes.
Question-But women have conceived from human
union, yet owing to some accident or fright, have brought
forth monsters. Are these immortal?  Answer-No.
thing that is not human is immortal, in the sense of
self-poisedness. and self-presence. If these monsters
are cerebrally human, and their malformation be merely
limb-distortion, taen that thing is destined to super-
mundane existence.
Quesbion--But human bodies, though brainless ones,
have been born of women ?--Well, they are not immor-
tal. Violent chemical actions en utero has destroyed
the conditions of successful monad-gestation, while per-
petuating the vegetative fcetc2 life: Of course the
thing is soulless.
Question-But the monad had begun to put forth its
energies. What then has become of it ; is it fore r
blotted out of being ? Answe--There stands a human
female, but the body you see is not herself: The soul is
her, not the flesh it wears. The monsters heated of in
medical works are but the product of body-iot of souL
In order to an inmortality, the-germ or monad must


148        DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

pass from the spiritual atmosphere interflowing the
material or oxygenic one, into the nosti and brains.
and soul of a male, thence through the parts and pro-
cesses already mentioned. Now the human form born
brainless is of the nature of an abortion ; and the ques-
tion arises, are abortions immortal ?  The answer is:
A  human germ, when first planted at the gestative
center, undergoes a variety of rapid and extraordinary
changes, assuming successively the typal forms of all,
the lesser orders of animated nature, from the jelly-fish
to the perfectly human. In some women these pro-
cesses are pushed with- extraordinary vigor and speed,
so that at the end of a very short period the fetus pos-
sesses all the requisites for permanency except physical
vigor. If then abortion takes -place, the nursling is
provided for and grows to comparative perfection, in
the Soul-worlds of course. Such beings constitute a
distinct and separate order of souls, and are, by the
great soul law, condemned to come to earth, and by
association and affiliation with embodied persons,
through magnetic rapport, experience the pleasures and
pains of self-development. These spirits will be treat-
ed of hereafter, when I come to write concerning" THE
REALM OF THE FAY."
But to- our subject.' If abortion take place before
the monad has, in the womb, put forth its powers to a
degree wherein the human characteristics rise above all
the lower forms, before its shape is perfectly formed,
then immortality dpes not follow.
But what becomes of the monad, the germ, the humani
point, the divine spark,. the pivot ? Answer-It re-'
mains with and in the fetal body till dissolution and
decay shall set it free.' Whereupon it floats again in

the spiritual atmosphere, until it is inhaled by a human
male, again,-whereupon it is, perhaps, and perhaps not,
sent forth upon its mission once again.
Question-We sometimes see double-men, as the twins
of Siam; and others still more remarkable, as one body
with two heads; are there two souls also? Answer-
Every true human brain contains a true and independ-
ent human soul. All men's brains contain vast numbers
of monads; hundreds of these seek incarnation on every
occasion, but only one or two, very rarely three or more,
succeed at that time!/ The rest, those that fail, float
about as before.
Question-At what period of life do men begin to at-
tract these monads? Answer-At puberty, owing to pecu-
liar chemical changes .in the physical constitution ; and
females are capable of receiving and nursing them when
a corresponding change has taken place in them.
Question-Can impregment occur without physical
contact?. Answer-Yes; by aid of artificial means, a
monad may be successfully introduced, and life ensue ;
but a very weak and imperfect life it must be, of ne-
cessity.
Having once entered upon this grand'subject, I deter-
mined to make the series of questions nearly, if not
quite, exhaustive; and, therefore, continued my inquiries,
receiving answers as before-for, be it again repeated,
no well-meaning human being can possibly ask a ques-
tion, the answer to.which. is not recorded somewhere
upon the secret tablets of the soul. In response to further
interrogatories, many grand truths came flowing forth
into the halls of consciousness; and, amongst other things,
I learned that the purpose of sex on the earths was pure
cohabitation, in proper human and God-sanctioned mar-

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.      149


DEALINGS WIT - THE3 DEAD.

16L

riagewith prolification, or soul-incarnation, as the re-
suit. But I also saw that this purpose was accom-
plished on earth, and that that use of sex was ended at
death ; that it absolutely does not exist in the Soul-
world. But in the diddle State, as a terrible phan-
tasy, lust and all other abominations abound ; and I
saw that one great cause of the moral looseness of thou-
sands of sensitive-nerved people on earth resulted from
the infernal possessions and obsessions of their persons
by delegations from those realms of darkness and-to
al but themselves-unmitigated horror. A sensitive
gi, - or woman-no matter how virtuously inclined---
may, unless by prayer and constant watchfulness they
prevent it, and keep the-will active and the sphere en-
tire; be led into the most abominable practices and hab-
its. Many of these denizens of the mid-regions of space
are insane-in the higher sense all are so--and'to them
lust and its gratifications, dram-drinking, and mal-prac-.
tice of all sorts, is a reality, although to others they are
cruel phantasies. The belief of these unfortunates re-
sults from their former habits, voluntary self-illusion,
and their old memories and associations, and they are.
devil-kings, gamblers, and keepers of seraglios-some-
thing on the same principle that a straw-crowned maniac
is to himself, and other of his ilk, a regal and potent
brow-gemmed monarch--a species of insanity generally
the result of personal excess and congenital disease;
and one, also, that it is very difficult to cure, either in the
Spirtworid or anywhere else, for the reason that no
man can be healed, morally or physically,,from or by
extenal applications ; the recreative work must be
commenced and carried on from within, ornot at all.
Are the destinies of all human beings parallel? An-

swer-No. On earth there are seven distinct orders
of mankind, and so there is beyond it. 'It is dffi-
cult to name these last without resorting to Orien.
tal terms ; but, as these will serve to convey something.
of the truth, I will attempt to classify them as follows:
1st, Spirits-Angels; 2nd, Seraphs; 3rd, Arsapham
4th, Eons ; 5th, Arsasaphs ; 6th, Arch-Eons; .7th, TW
Autarphim.
Is this all?  No. For the highest of the last five
orders-ultimate in a Perfection whereof the human nind
cannot conceive. They become Deions, a supreme or-
der of creative intelligences and energies, whose power,
in combination, is only second to that of the Infinite
God Himself. These constitute the.towering hierarchy
of the supernal Heaven. Their number is infinite. Nor
hath ever a man born on earth reached nearer their
glorious state than the second on the list, (Ser.aphs).
They are creative energies, you say ; if so, where is
the field of their activities ? Answer-The Amorphous
Universe, circuinvolving the material creation!
Is space then bounded?. Yes !
By what ? I have just answered.
.But what proof is there that this. tremendous state-
ment is correct? Answer-The nebulous masses re-
vealed by the telescope ; masses constantly being ladled
out, so to speak, of the immense sea of nascent ,matter,
by the awful powers to whom that mighty task is s-
signed,and by those same powers changed or condensed
into fire-mist, ire, cometary bodies, suns, planets, life
bearing earths!I
Then man is, in very deed, almost a--God?-You
have said !

150

DEALINGS, WITH , PH] 'DEAD..

0


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

He creates'worlds, and becomes the deity of his ore-
atin ?--Man is a godling!
These were a few of the answers that came to me, as
we turned from the precipice, and moved once more
toward the sylvan grove !
Measured by earthly clocks, I had been but two hours
in the Soul-world, but felt that I had endured for cen-
turies.
I soon discovered the reason of this. There is, as
said before, a great sympathetic chain extending from
sou1 to soul, over and through all past time, and up to
God likewise; and on the plane of this great Sympathia,
at every point, some one stands ; that some one can scan
the past, the present, and the future, just in proportion
to his or her unfolding ; and the true blending of that
soul with some other, puts this last in possession of all
the other may have attained. I loved and was loved'
by one who stood high thereon, and the intuitions of my
soulwere quickened by his presence.
Purity is the price of power. * * *J * Years of
earth have passed since that auspicious opening of the
inner life. Much greater and higher knowledge has
since flowed into my soul, portions of which will, ere
long, be given to the world by the same pen which in-
dited every line this book contains-save the preface.
At present I am, with Mhie, endeavoring to gain wis-
dom, as hand in hand, heart bound up in heart, and soul.
blended with soul, we together are happily, joyously,
climbing up the sky.
L. T.

PART. SECOND.

THE DISENTHRALMENT.
Tam Dunu. Good Palmer, is thy tale so wondrous strangeY
PAiMERn. Else had I not sought auditor so wise.
'Tis the best legend ever yet was heard,
Unless I mar it sadly in the telling.
SoMETING very unusual has taken place within a
little while,; what it is can scarcely be told, can' only
dimly be understood, and still more vaguely conveyed
to others. This change, this mysterious something,
pertains not to body, but to. soul, to the inner person;
and while the flesh-form is apparently as ever, the
strange inhabitant thereof is conscious that it is not as
of yore ;-nay, has passed, as it were, within these few
latter days, into a new mood or phase of its wonderful
being.
But a little while ago, the world--this stony world--
was far dearer and more highly prized than it is to-
Aay ; and this for the reason that not now, as then, does
the airy dweller of the body-house look out upon it as
of yore ;-no longer glances over its mountains, vales
and salt seas from the windows near the ground.
It grew suddenly tired of the weight, and gloom, and
lead-heavy air-air so light-istorting, which circulates

j i                                        ~;'
,  i
''r
5-
- _ ,'t;

152


154       DEALINGS WITH RTIE DEAD.W

just above the surface-just high enough to be breathed
by those who move along the by-lanes of Vanity Fair:
and the Soirl took a key from its girdle, and therewith
unlocked the door which alone had prevented its ascen-
sion to the upper story of the Temple ; and it saw the
steps leading toward the Dome-and they were broad, in-
viting, well carpeted and lighted. Up the steps it went,
and presently reached a lofty apartment, -within which
there fell a flood of glorious effulgence ; and this light
was clear, and pure, and pearly white ; and it streamed
into the apartment,-this upper chamber of the soul,--
through a glorious arched window, toward which it
drew near, and lo! all' the world looked different, as
did the stars that hung out upon the gt, and the
beautiful pale moon, and God's rockets-the meteors
---so beautiful !
There was an occupant of that chamber, one who had
been slumbering on a couch therein for many, many
years; but the grating of the door upon its rusted,
hinges and the rattle of the keys disturbed this sleeper,
and woke it up. The being was a female-so very beau-
tiful that I loved her from the first, for she was very
beautiful, and came to me, threw her fair white arms
about my neck, kissed my forehead tenderly, told me
that she had slept too long, pent up in that chamber all
alone.
And I loved her deeply, because she was so very
pure, so virginal, so fresh and innocent, and withal so
very beatitiful! I asked her name. "It is Devotion,"
she replied. Then folding me to her bosom, her tender,
loving bosom, she gently drew me nearer to the win-
dow, pointed down toward the ground,, and said:."The
air is thick, and dank, and dark, and dense, and very

murky. It is difficult to catch a glimpse of the bright
orb'of the Heavens, or to feel his genial ray down there,
in that thick and heavy air ; but here, tip here, the
atmosphere is purer, and, if you look well and steadily
through that pane, you will see the Spirit of God as He
moves across the mighty deep 1" And I looked. A
great Glory was at that moment marching across the
whole bright sky--a mystic but a nameless glory-and
the night was very grand ; the emotions it awoke were
very soft and tender, so that tears welled up at the
sight from the heart of Devotion, and suffused her
beautiful features. Oh, magic tears ! One pearly drop
fell on me, and lo I the icebergs of my soul were melted,
and-I wept ;--and the waters, as they flowed, swept
away many an obstacle that had thereunto impeded and
obstructed my vision, and, soon I was able to see the
Spirit of God in everything that He had made. Seeing
which, the Beautiful Maiden gently chided me for so
long delaying the coming up the stairs and the entering
of that wondrous upper chamber whose windows look
out upon the world below and toward the God above.
And she told me how happy I might have been in the
years agone, had not the lower strata of the atmosphere
hurt my vision, and if I had unlocked the great door
sooner. I asked the lovely one to reveal the methods
by which, when I descended again, the recollection
of the present golden hour might never be -effaced.
Sweetly she answered : "All that .is necessary is to
look toward the Dawn, and
"When the dance of the Shadow at daylight is done,
And the cheeks of the Morning are red with the Sun;
When at eve, in his-glory, he sinks from the view,
.And calls up his planets to blaze in the blue,
Then pour out thy spirit in prayer,

DEALINGS' WITII- THE DEAD*  - 155


DEALINGS WITH THE 'DEAD~
Wh6n the beautiful bend of the Bow is above,  -
Like a collar of light on the bosom of Love,
When the moon in her brightness is floating on high,
Like a Banner of silver hung out in the Sky,
Then pour out thy spirit in prayer.
"In the depths of the darkness unvaried in hue,
henshadows are veiling the breast of the blue,
When'the voice of the Tempest at midnight is still,
And the Spirit of Solitude sobs on the hill,
Then pour out thy spirit in prayer.
"In the dawn of the morning when Nature's awake,
And calls up her Chorus to chaunt in the brake,
'Mid the voice of the echo unbound in the woods,
'Midst the warbling of streams, and the foaming of floods,
Then pour out thy spirit in prayer.
Where by the pure streamlet the pale lily bends,
Like Itope'o'er the grave of affectionate friends,
When each star in the sky to the bright fancy seems
Like an island of light, in an ocean of dreams,
Then pour out thy spirit in prayer.
"When the Tempest is treading the paths of the deep,
And the Thunder is up from his cloud-cradled sleep,
When the Hurricane sweeps o'er the earth in his wrath,
And leaveth the footprints of God in his path,
Then pour out thy spirit in prayer."S
And I prayed.
Since that day* Devotion has been the solace of
many   and. many a weary hour ; for when grief and-
pain   and sorrow    with -their train afflict the soul, it
remembers the key-note and the key, and that glorious
upper chamber, with the great Glory that swept the
Eavens, even from the rising of the sun to the going
down thereof.
These:were the circumstances which- brought about
PFeb.4th.?186 .   ~.

DEALINGS-WT,   TE tED
the change. it gives. a singularly sweet and plac
conviction that my long, long night of painlife is :
nearly past, the agony-hours nearly at their'close.; and
so, feeling now emboldened and nerved to the task :the
fulfilling of a design long entertained, I determined to
mould into the following form certain of my
DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
In presenting what follows, wisdom dictates the nar-
rative style rather than any other, for the reason that it
is better calculated to entertain, interest, and instruct
the reader.
Not a few people, nor those of the least. informed
class either, entertain many serious. doubts as to the
nature, perdurability, immortality, and eternality of the
human soul. Of the last, probably no one in the body
can ever be absolutely certain and assured; but of the
former, all may be ; not, perhaps, by means of what
herein ensues concerning the points named, but by rea.
son of that greater knowledge whereof what follows is
the key. I present the subjoined as seriously as could
anything be. To my soul the truths here revealed,
transcribed from the experimental knowledge-tablets of
that very soul itself, are priceless, and worth as much
more than what people generally receive and accept as
truth, from  sources whose external manifestation is
through the 'Spiritualism' of the ,day, as these lash are
more valuable than the mere guesses at the truth of ira-
mortality, current previous to the advent of 'The Fex
and Fish Dynasty.'
Some six hundred and fifty years, more or less; before
the birth of Jesus of Nazareth-praises:be to his name
forever !-in the thirty.ifth: Olympiad, or about two
thousand five hundred years ago, there lived in the East.


158

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

a famous philosopher, known to us through history as
Thales,the Milesian ; and there is no doubt but that he,
was one of the first, if not the very first man of great
mental rank and caliber, who publicly taught the doc-
trine of human immortality.
Doubtless the same general train of reasoning re-
sorted to by Thales was nearly, if not quite, identical
with that which constitutes the basis of nearly all hu-
man hope to-day, if we except the modern 'Spiritual'
theory, which, while very comforting and satisfactory
to great numbers, is far from being so to millions more ;
for there are quite a number of questions which a doubting
man may ask of those who predicate an hereafter upon
the evidence furnished by the 'Spiritualism' of the day,
which those who are asked are not able to clearly and
satisfactorily answer. To many, the reasoning of the
'Spiritualists,' like that of the ancient, amounts to " It
is quite possible that human beings are immortal;" and
that is all. Many a man and woman are dying daily,
deaths from the fearful doubts that constantly arise as
to the truth of the immortality of the Soul ; doubts, too,
that will still insist on coming pp, in spite of the start-
ling phenomena of the 'manifestations' whose origin is
attributed to disembodied men and women ; they still
leave an aching void-a void which I am about to at-
tempt to fill ; and, I believe, successfully.
After the great Milesian, came other philosophers-
men of genius, and intuition-who had dim and indis-
tinct glimmerings of the great truth. Feeling, rather
than seeing, that there must be a life beyond the body,
they strove to impress their convictions upon others ;
yet the sum total still amounted to but a probability, at
best. As a result of the great search for light upon-

a '

DEALINGS WIrH THE DEAD.

159

this mighty subject, many glimmerings of the truth were
seen, but they were glimmerings only. - By-and-by came
tlato upon the stage of the world's theater. He pro-
duced 'Phaodo'-a great work, considering the times
in which it first saw the light. It still remains so; and
yet, so acute is the logical faculty of the people of the
present era, that even that work fails of convincing.
It is, viewed by the modern light, far, very far from be-
ing a satisfactory performance, considering the immense
importance and sublimity of the theme it professes to
treat ; yet, nevertheless, Plato did succeed-in convinc-
ing many of the people of the by-gone ages, as well as
of the present, that he had indeed struck the golden
vein at the bottom of which the wondrous jewel lies;
and in establishing a - crude- conviction of that great
truth, which the present century will doubtless have the
supreme-honor of perfectly demonstrating. In the final
conclusion, to which the world will shortly come, the
author of these pages firmly believes that the elements
herein given will enter as integers-as a portion and
part absolutely essential to the perfect structure
Plato, not unlike many of our modern savans, seems
to have been sorely troubled-not so much in proving
the immortality of the soul, as in assigning it a proper
habitation after death. But the soul, like the body,
must-have a home, he thought, and so he concluded to
locate that home within the boundaries of the*'New
Atlantis Isle,' situated, nobody, not even the -great
thinker himself, knew where. The same difficulty pre-
sents itself to-day; a thousand theories, or, more prop-
erly speaking, hypotheses, are now .foat on the surface
of the general mind, concerning the locality of the
Divine City of Spirits--the home of departed souls.

f

*


L,                "  y
fir.     "  fw

DALTN s WIT THE DEAD-

The great majority of these suppositions are too mate-
rial, crude, shallow and baseless, on'their very faces,,to
even challenge the attention of a thinker for a single
moment; others are too far-fetched; and not one of
them all is there, but presents itself in the face of a
dozen objections, from every one of ten thousand ob-
jectors.
That this assertion may not appear groundless, and
seem to be dictated by improper reasoning, let us merely
glance at the three theories held by the people who
claim to know most about the matter-'Spiritualists.'
One of the lights of that class gravely informs us that
the spiritual world is located quite a distance on the
other side of 'The Milky Way;' he and his disciples
affirm that spirits can and do come back to earth daily;
that our desires draw them, and that they, being there
and feeling us draw them, instantly quit the land of
bliss, and flit toward us, accomplishing the distance in
'no time at all ;' which very indefinite period we may
safely assume to be three or four hours, more or less.
Now, light coming from the nearest fixed star at the
rate oftwo hundred thousand miles a minute, cannot
reach us in less than eighteen years-while light from
any star on the further side of the same great belt of
suns, requires a period of time too vast for us to -con-
prehend; ere it can gladden our eyes.
The Spirits' dwelling, according to this school, lies
beyond even those vastly distant orbs. Supposing, how-
ever, that it exists in the neighborhood of the nearest
star, any spirit who gets here after a journey of three
hours, must travel through space at not less than the
rate of twdee thousand three hundred and eighty-seven
MILLIONS Qf mites DURING EVERY SECOND of the wft

1&amp;tO

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

161

f
r
'       t,
2
'     x;. ,
r, F .
4
i
rY
.
{{    i
ij
ca
t
i
.
_    '} ,
y     J

1

,f
St
+S
l
#+.
2
,i

journey /-a speed that would annihilate any being less
than God himself. What an idea!
The next theory, ~originated and advocated by the
same person,* is, that the Spirits' home is on a sort of
aerial belt circumvolving our globe. Said belt is fifty
miles thick ; spirits live on its upper surface, which is
very like this earth, seeing that it has cities, houses,
streets, waters, oceans, rivers, trees, beasts, birds, and
reptiles. At the poles of the earth, according to this
same self-dubbed philosopher and his 'school,' there are
certain openings or large holes, through which the
spirits come and go just when it suits them so to do.
When they depart hence, they go 'head up,' of course ;
and when they come to us, they must approach 'Yead-
foremost,' or with their feet toward their home-a very
immodest way for some spirits to travel, if the dignity
of their -sex is still retained-and a very undignified
mode of traveling for the philosophers and magnates
who so often talk to and at us, through the lips of mod-
ern eolists.
This, like the former theory, is unsatisfactory-but
mainly on the ground of its gross materiality, for it
makes the second life but a new edition of the first one.
Common 'sense must reject this last. Of the two, the
first theory is incomparably the most magnificent and
grand. The fault is, that it is too much so ; for it re-
moves us at one leap from the condition of humanity,
and. at once endows us with the attributes and power
of veritable gods.
The next hypothesis concerning the matter is, that
this world (our globe) is, and must, and will for all eter-
0 A man who; knows most when fast asleep, and then knows but
very little.


1 2        DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

nity be, the abiding place and, scene of activity of all
mankind, who ever  have been or will be born on it,'
through all the past and all the future ages. Accord-
:       ;ing to this school (if I may so dignify it), Spirits are,
here dwelling amongst us, taking note of all things that,
oegur--are eating, drinking, and doing all that we do.
Now, there is more common sense and reasonableness
in these latter notions than in all the rest ; for of the
many guesses at the truth, this comes nearest to the
mark . The faults which this theory has, are, however,,
verybad ones ; for, first, it materializes the soul ; sec-
ond, 'it confines it-here, nor even permits it to leave its
prison, to roam the starry fields ; and, third, it does in-
justice to God and His omnipotence, inasmuch as it
practically doubts his -providence, limits His power,
and assumes that He was incompetent to provide, spir-
itual homes for spiritual beings, and was compelled to
make this a double world. If a spirit occupies any
spaee at all, then, if this theory be true, not only is then
surface above ground one compact mass of Spirits, but
they form piles, extending far higher than our loftiesth
mountains; for, since men have begun to die, they have
continued to pass away at the rate of scores.of millions
every year fcr at least a hundred centuries.
I could not help disposing of this doctrine by means
of the argumentum ad absurdum, for it was, and ever
will be, totally unworthy of any more respectful treat-
ment ; -and yet, as said before, it contains far more truth.
than either of the others, as will very shortly be, if not
already herein seen.
People who lived in the days of Plato, Thales, and
the great men of the olden time, could not have the.
same notions that we have ; could got underatiandmany

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.          163
of the wonders which we, in this age, fully comprehend.
They could not conceive of a balloon, railroad, locomo
tive, steamship, photo-picture, or telegraph, for the very
plain and simple reason that the human brain had'not
as a general thing, then unfolded many of its wonder-'
ful and mighty powers. Its  immense capacities wed
as yet nascent, latent, still. True, the seeds of 'alL that
it has since proved were there, but in embryo only. In
other words, the soul had not the requisite brain-organs,
through which it could familiarize itself with all or any
of the marvelous things just enumerated. 'So now, in
these days, men and women worry themselves aggreat
deal concerning the locus in quo of their fleshless friends,
about the Deity or no-Deity question, and a hundred
others of the like, not the least important of which is
that concerning the nature, origin, and final destiny
of the soul itself. Presently, in the years of the'race,
if not in those of the individuals on earth to-day, the
requisite brain-organs will be developed, the proper
function of which shall be the furnishing of the soul
with what it wants, in order to take notice of, and com-
prehend the principles underlying its own existence,
here and hereafter. Till then, the facts it sees must be
admiitted, even while many of the bases-of these very
facts remain involved in impenetrable mystery. It must
take many things for granted-its own immutability irk
cluded-in many instances, without any very perfect or.
intimate knowledge of thewhy ?"-on the cogito, ergo sum
principle.
To return to the ancient philosopher: It aiybe re-
marked that, although he had a vague notion of a con-
sciour life of the soul subsequent to the dissolution. of
its corporeal investiture, yet, unquestionably, te port


144.        .DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
of post mortem'existence, which he conceived, and Im-
mortality-as the brightest intellects of the present age
understand it-are two very dissimilar states or modes
of being, and widely different in principle, value, nature,
and results.
It may be well to present an abstract and brief chroni-
efe of the Platonic idea, in order to clearly indicate the
divergences.
To say nothing concerning Plato's doctrine of the
Metempsychosis, or the Transmigration of soul from body
to body--(which doctrine contains some truth, as doth
nearly every notion man entertains, and which took
its rise in the plains of Chaldea, was there found and
adopted byt the great Zerdusht, or Zoroaster, from whom
Plato borrowed it)-we will merely glance at certain
others of his recorded opinions. According to Plato,
the soul is double-that is to say, both material and
spiritual; all souls pre-existed; originally, they were
inhabitants"of Heaven, a place somewhere in the sky,
whence they emigrated to the earth ; their sole mis-
sion is to become " developed," which process is effected
in this wise : Each soul must animate successively a
prodigious number of bodies, every stage of their ca-
reer occupying not less than a "period," which may be
set down as one hundred years, and must be repeated
an incalculable number of times ; they then return
whence they eame-to Heaven; are permitted by the
-gods to remain there for af$ allotted term, after the ex-
piration of which, they are again compelled to go forth
and occupy successive bodies, as before. Consequently,
all human souls are, according to the Platonic theory,
destined to nearly an everlasting repetition of the same
general processes, are fated to an almost endless round

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

of defilements and purifications; of returns to Heaven,
and dismissals to earth-not to speak of sundry sojourns
in very bad localities on the route.
Plato taught that these souls do not entirely-forget
their experiences, joys, sorfows- or ambitions, hopes,
cares and anxieties-in short, none of their varied eg-.
periences during the several incarnations ; and that all,
or any portion of human knowledge, at any given point
of time; has notrthe.real acquisition of the present, as
it seemed, but was composed merely of the memories,
or reminiscences of innumerable past careers-the press
sent recognition of facts and incidents which transpired
in some pre-existent stage of their tremendous career.
That these are truly magnificent notions, scarce any-
one who can truly grasp them will deny, even though
to some persons they may appear to be the very quin-
tessence of poetry. Transmigration, in some form, has
certainly been, if not hereafter to be, the lot of man. I
do not believe the Platonic conception of"this great
truth to be the correct one, nor that.man will ever un-
dergo the doom again ; yet, that the soul has reached
its present through many an inferior state, is a self-evi-
dent fact to me. At all events, a formidable array of
reasons might be presented to account for the faith that
is within me.
This idea of Plato's. completely antagonizes two of
the most celebrated dogmas that ever held the human
reason captive: .the first of which is the famous "Monad
Theory" of Leibnitz, albeit he came very near the truth,
as has been-seen ; and the other, the modern doctrine,
that souls, like bodies, are formed, made, created here:;
and that their origin is a common one-en utero. W
Before the conclusion of the task assigned me, I shall

-
"
, .-'
,,
;,
.'

165


166.         DEALINGS WITH TIlE DEAD.
have occasion to revert again to both of these latter
doctrines. At present, let them pass.
Plato nintained that the soul was Divine particu-
tumr auae, an emanation from God Himself, a portion of
His immaculate Being, detached for a time onlywand
that after innumerable transmigrations it is re-absorb-
ed into Himself again, and loses its own distinctive-
ness. Of course, this notion, if it be true, instead of
proving immortality, asPlato supposed, in fact dis-
proves it altogether; that is, if immortality be conceded
to be a continuance of personal identity, and an indivi-
dual duration,-subsequent to the demise of the physical
body. Immortality means a continued existence of the
personality, and not a mere survival of the varied ele-
ments whereof a human being is composed.. The parti-
cular Deific emanations which constitute the souls of
A, B; C and D, respectively, as soon as they become
souls, are beings totally distinct from all else that
exists, and'must forever remain so ; and "soul".can be
predicated of either, only as beings thus separate, and
therefore immortality can be the prerogative of man only
so long as God and man are not blended into one single
Personality. So long as each soul'shall think, feel, suffer,
enjoy, cogitate and have a continuity of self-knowing,
just so long will it be possessed of an invincible convic-
tion of personal identity, under which circumstance
alone, and only, can its immortality be truly predicated
and affirmed.,'But, should'any soul ever be re-absorbed
into Deity-again become a portion of Divinity-an
utter, total, and complete annihilation of the individual
must ensued; and that destruction of the human self-
hoed would be as effective, utter and complete, as if the
varied elements entering into it as constituents were

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.         167
whirled absolutely outsof the universe and into a blank
nothingness.
A tree sawed into planks is a tree no ionge, although
the wood, so far as mere essence is concerned;mains
as before. The tree as a tree is ruined forever, albeit the
wood of it may endure for centuries. To sum up: All
the theories of the Platonists, the followers of Thales,
and the disciples of every one of the ancient philoso*
phers, as well as those of scores of the modern" Spirit-
ualists," especially of that peculiar school who, prate
of immortality and annihilation in one and the same,
the very same breath, are unsatisfactory ; for, after all,
their boasted demonstrations of immortality amount, in
their final results and effects upon our minds, to but
very little more than pleasing hopes; and fond desires,
and longings after immortality In what follows I have
endeavored to solve the problem, in a somewhat novel
way, it must be admitted ; yet I am in earnest, and
have worked up the materials at my command in the
most effective manner that was possible.
The belief in ghosts, spirits, apparitions, wraiths and
doubles, is almost universal. Millions of people affect
to disbelieve in them ; and yet, deep down in the soul-
caverns of these identical millions may be found all that
exists in the minds of the most credulous. Disbelief in
such things is very near akin to the asserted creeds of
atheism. Thousands there be who in words4eny the ex-
istence of a God; and yet, let any one of these loud-
mouthed sceptics become racked with a realgenuine, old-
ashioned toothache,: and ten to one he cries out" 0,

*


:  , _  _
"-  ', ,
9
;Fr fi     Y  .
,-rte, y' /, R J -  t
'T+' fS
,,r-
ty
t
S '  '+
S
'
:    y
k-y
i.

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

Lord !" fifty times'a day, and as often in the night begs
God to have mercy upon his rack-tortured jaws. The
fact is, there never yet was, there never will be, such a
rara avis as a genuine atheist ; and in spite of all pro-
testations to the contrary; there are but few who do
nit believe to some extent in the existence of spirits.
As with the rest of the world, so with myself; for, not-
withstanding the chronic and hereditary scepticism of my
nature,:a scepticism as unbending as iron, as inflexible
as. stone, I, from early childhood, entertained a certain,
vague, indefinite belief in the existence of the spectral
gentry of another world; yet with this belief there was
not the least realization in my mind that the objects of
my belief had the faintest or most distant relationship
to the human people in flesh and blood whom I daily
saw about me. There was nothing very singular in
that, however, for I merely resembled the millions of
to-day, who, while entertaining the most undoubted,
and,in some respects, salutary belief in ghosts, yet prac-
tically seem not to have the most distant idea that in so
doing they are fully accepting the mystic's faith,-that
these self-same ghosts are but the spirits of mortals
who dwell beyond the veil.
Even in my early days I strove, by inquiry and by
reading such books upon the subject as fell in my way,
to find out whether this earthly life was the only allot-
ment of man,-poor, care-ridden, unhappy man,--or not.
Child as I was, I felt the incompleteness of all subsolary
things, and longed to know if out experiences here
were or were not all we had to hope for, or look for-
ward to. The belief in ghosts did not help me any;
for that ghost and spirit were synonyms, never once
struck my mind. To the innumerable questions pro-

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

169

pounded by me to my elders, in the expectation of
eliciting satisfactory replies, the old stereotyped re-
sponse was given,-to wit : Mankind have souls, and
these souls live when the body is dead and returned
into the dust of the ground ; but what the soul was,
whence it came, what was its nature, form, shape -and
size, and whither it went after the loss of its body, I
could gain not the slightest information;, for every
answer given me was as unsatisfactory as would be the
Platonic theory to a modern philosopher of the trans-
cendental order.
After a while these-repeated failures produced their
legitimate fruit; at first, a little doubt crept .in, and
challenged all I had gathered. It grew apace, and
finally settled into a sort of atheism, from which.I was
happily rescued by my sister Harriet, and the good old
Father Verella, a Spanish priest, by whom I was duly
baptized and received into the bosom of the Roman
Catholic Church, in my native city, New York. How
long the connection lasted cannot how be told;' but
something that occurred disgusted me, and forthwith
the Pope had a new foe in my humble person. Years
of doubt again succeeded after this relapse, during
which the belief in ghosts grew stronger and still more
'strong. My mind became subject to certain peculiar
states,-a sort of raptness, so to express it,--a condi-
tion precisely identical with that now claimed by
thousands in tlie land, to be spiritually induced.' The
supposition that it is so, may be correct, and it may be
that this condition is the result of the development of
a new sense or faculty in the mind: It matters not
which, albeit I am inclined toward the latter'hypothe-
sis. In these states to which I became at times subject,
8

168

t


170        DEALINGS WITH T  DEAD.    DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

,
r,
, -mot  -
Vii,
k
f
'
"'
t
f
}{i
{
+ {

it seemed to me that I held converse with the ghosts,
but for a long time was totally unable to realize that
they were human spirits. Much of the history of my
psychical life has for years been before the world, and
therefore need not be repeated here ; consequently we
will pass over several years, to the date of the first
occurrence of the "Rochester Knockings." At the first
opportunity that offered itself, I went to Litchfield,
Michigan, at which place were two females in whose
presence the strange noises were said to occur. I heard
their, believed they were produced by a power outside,
and independent of the girls, ye.t could hardly realize
that human souls, disembodied, were the makers of the
sounds.
The result was an increased and intensified study, not
only of the soul itself, so far as was possible by aid of
an active intellect and quickened intuition, but also of
its modes of action, its phases, and its moods. And,
0, how my spirit loved to dwell upon its possibilities !
Was. there any person in the country reputed to have
a wealth of knowledge on matters pertaining to the
spirit, I spared neither trouble nor expense ; but went
forthwith to glean what I could from his or her precious
stores. Of the "rappers," "tippers," and" table-turn-
ers," I soon became 'wearied ; for, as a class, they
amounted to but little, and, with one or two exceptions,
proved unworthy of confidence.
At last, I went to visit a city in New England, where
was :published a paper devoted to the illustration and
diffusion of spiritual light, the editor of which soon be-
came interested in me, (for people said that my ghost-
seeing faculty was real, and that ,Lhad given incontesti-
ble proofs, not merely of the power indicated, but also

of what they were pleased to call clairvoyance). While
sojourning in this eastern city, I came across a series
of crayon sketches, copied from an old 'English work
by their possessor, illustt-ative of certain portions of the
processes of cosmical formation, according to the' Igni-
genous Theory.. One of these drawings represented a
vortical sun, discharging from itself countless hosts of
lesser suns-a world-rain from the eternal cornucopia.
The idea, even if it be but an idea, is a magnificent--aye,
a tremendous one, and it attracted my soul very strongly.
Many and many an hour have I sat gazing raptly upon
that bit of pasteboard, which to me told a story too
supremely vast and grand to ever find expression in
human types or language ; and often have I been lost in
the lanes of the azure, when striving to reach that al-
mighty center of flaming fire, whence, starry systems
rain down like snow-flakes in the wintry days.
This particular crayon set me to thinking in'right
good earnest ; as a result of' which, it appeared that my
psychical vision became intensified. Test after test was
given of this power, until the list rolled up from tens to
hundreds, and people said, "If these descriptions of
dead persons, whom you have never seen when living,
and whom you profess to behold now, are not proofs of
both the immortality of the soul and the ability to scale
the walls which divide this from the upper worlds,
what in Heaven's name will prove them'? It must be
true that you, and hundreds of others as well, do really
penetrate the heretofore unlifted veil." The dispda
of these powers satisfied others, but to myself they still
remained the weary, weary A's and the barren, barren
B's; for, notwithstanding all that I had seen; heard and
read on the subject of the soul's continuance, it was

/

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.      171


172        DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

utterly impossible to actualize or realize my theoretic be-
lief ; and this, too, at the very time that scores of per-
sons, through the practical display of what I can but
regard as a mere phase of psycho-vision, were trium-
phing in a firm, solid, unshaken belief in an hereafter ;
singular, was it not?
That the soul can, at times, act independent of the
body, I am firmly convinced. We see daily proofs of
it in the mesmerist's art, in mental telegraphy, and in
various*other ways ; this has long been an accepted fact.
How often do wesuddenly think of a person, who in-
stantly thereafter enters our presence, his spiritual part
having preceded the physical! How often do we visit
places during sleep which, in other days, we recognize
externally ! How frequently we dream of persons and
things unknown to us, and subsequently encounter these
very persons and things when wide awake ! Many per-
sons possess this power of independent soul-action, and
can exert it at will. The writer has often done so.
The experience about to be related occurred at a
period when the skeptical mood was on my soul ; and
it overtook me as I wandered distractedly on the bor-
ders of the region of Despair. But this experience,
strange, fearful, and even terrible, as portions of it were,
had a beneficial effect ; for it lifted my struggling soul
to hights of grandeur and glory, from whose sublime
summits my vision 'swept the plains of immortality,
and pierced the arcana of death itself !'
Had the wisdom-lessons taught in this immense ex-
perience been duly profited by, as they ought, I should
have escaped many and many a bitter hour. But, like
the majority of people, I refused to learn in any but
the severest of all schools.

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.          173
It so fell out upon a day, that, having taken my usual
seat before a copy of the marvelous crayon previously
alluded to, and which I had rudely sketched, I became
impatient at my continual failures to comprehend the
subject it represented. Generally this had not been the
case. My mind, on that morning, was unusually clear
and vigorous; and yet, despite all efforts, I found it ut-
terly impossible to comprehend the stupendous concep-
tion-the Birth of a Universe. At last, heart-faint and
sick at my failure, I abruptly rose from, the chair, re-
sumed my walking apparel, left the room, and strolled
carelessly and mechanically up the street, and continued
listlessly onward, until I found myself beyond the out-
skirts of the city, and entering the open country. It
was a bright, sunshiny day; and after wandering about
for nearly an hour, and beginning to feel a double op-
pression-fatigue of body, for it was very weak and
slender-and despondency of spirits-it struck me that
I would turn short to the right, and lie down for a
while beneath the grateful shade of a .natural bower,
on the borders of a forest clump, hard by. This I did ;
and having reclined upon the rich, green turf, under the
leafy canopy afforded by the trees-rare and stately old
elms they were-abandoned myself at once to medita-
tion, speculation and repose. How long I thus lay it
is impossible 'to tell; it may have been one hour--it
may have been two or three:i all that I remember of
the outer world of wakefulness is the framing of a series
of questions, and, amongst others wherewith I interro-
gated my deepest soul for responses, were these: "What
is the immortality of man? What is God? Where
does He dwell ? Is the life hereafter a continuance of
this, or is it entirely different? Can it be only a shift:


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.       175

ing of world-scenes, or is it a change as widely apart
from our earthly state as is -this last from the existence
before birth ?" These, and many similar questions, my
soul propounded to.itself, and sought, by an intense in-
troversion of its faculties, to reach the penetralia of its
being, where it instinctively felt convinced that all the
momentous answers were already registered. Long
and persistently was this endeavor continued, until, for
the first time in my life, I became aware. of something
very, very strange, and supremely interesting going on
within me. This sensation was somewhat analagous. to
the falling off into a deep sleep, only that it was the body
alone which lost its outward sensibility ; it was the
physical senses only that became slowly and gradually
benumbed and sealed, while the mighty senses beneath
them appeared to intensify themselves, draw together,
and coalesce in one grand Albsense; and this contin-
ued going on until it reached a strange and awful de-
gree, and a sensation as of approaching death stole over,
and, for a little while, frightened and alarmed me.
With all the clearness of reasoning that I ever possess-
ed, I applied myself to the work of fathoming what all
this meant ; but the more strenuous the effort, the more
signal the failure. Finding that the phenomenon taking
place within, was governed by a law which pertained
to soul-life alone, and that my ignorance of that mystic
realm"was too great and dense to permit a full compre-
hension of the enigma, nothing remained but to submit,
and learn, as tinte wore on ; and, accordingly, giving
over all att pts. to shake off that which, by this time,'
held my enti being within its mighty and resistless
grasp, I abide patiently the result.
Slowly as moves the ice-mounds of Switzerland came

the sense of coldness over my limbs; inch by inch the
crafty hand of Mystery gained firmer hold. 'The feet,
the limbs, the vitals, grew cold and leaden, until at last
it seemed as if the ventricles Qf my heart and the blood
within them were freezing, slowly, surely freezing ; and
the terrible conviction forced itself upon me that I was
gradually, but positively-dying!I
Soon all sense of organization below the neck 'Was
lost, and the words 'limb, body, chest,' had no meaning.
This was also true of the head generally, but 'ubt of a
something within that head. The bodily eyes and ears
were the last to yield themselves up to the influence
of the strange, weird;spell.
With a last, perishing effort, I strove to look forth
upon, and listen to the sounds of the world, now perhaps
forever being left behind. What a doleful change in a
few brief hours I Where all had been serenely, calmly
beautiful before, nothing was now visible but the huge,
gaunt skeletons of forms I had seen glowing with living
verdure but a little while ago ; the sunlight was changed
from silver sheen to a pale and sickly yellow, tinged
with ghastly green. The overhanging branches and
profuse foliage of the trees hard by had altered their
every aspect, and from stately monuments of God's
goodness, had become transformed into spectral obe-
lisks, upreared on the earth to tell the future ages that'
He had passed that way in savage and vindictive wrath,
once upon a time. When I lay me down and gazed up
into the beautiful heaven, the fleecy vapors were play-
ing at cloud-gambols on the breast of the vault ; but
now they were turned into funereal palls, heavy, black,
and gloomy as are the coverlets of Night; and the
busy hum of myriad insects, and the gentle murmur of

174        DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.


176        DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

the zephyr moving through the bushes, no longer pleased
the ear by their soft, low buzz, but smote upon my part-
ing soul like a last and dirgeful knell ; while the warb-
lings of the plumed songsters of the wood sounded to
my soul like the sepulchral chants of Eastern sttry.
Very soon the deep black pall, hung out upon the face
of heaven, began slowly and remorselessly to come down,
down, down, until my nostrils snuffed the vapors and
sensed the odors of the grave. The far-off horizon bi-
gan cautiously to approach me, shutting out first one
window of the sky and then another, until at last but
a little space of light was left; and still the cloud-walls
drew nearer, nearer still ; the darkness and the fetor
grew more fearfully dense by degrees ; I gasped for
breath the effort pained me, and was fruitless ; and the
horrible agony consequent thereupon, for one moment
re-illumed the brain ; and the dreadful possibility, nay,
the probability, that I was to .die there alone, with no
loved hand to smoothe my brow, no lip to kiss me 'good-
bye,' no tearful eye to watch my parting hour, sent a
thrill along my brain almost too intense for endurance.
The conviction that I must perish, uncared for by kind
friends; out there in the wood, beneath the blue sky and
the green trees, seized upon my soul, and the cold beads
of perspiration that oozed from my brow and trickled
down to the ground, attested the degree of mental agony
I was undergoing. 'Good-bye, all ye beauties of the
sense-world ! farewell, all whom I have loved or been
loved byI' I mentally said ; and then, by a strong
effort of will, nerved -my soul for its expected flight.
Soon there came a thrill, a shudder, an involuntary
'God, receive me!1' and I felt that I was across the

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.      177

Mysty River, and stood within the awful gates of--
ETERNITY I
The majority of people imagine the Soul-world to be
spdi4lly (to coin a good word) outside of this sphere;
and so it is, in one sense ; but in another, it is not. A
notion of what I mean may be had by comparing the
other and higher with certain phases of the true dream-
life. The scenes of action of either are totally removed
from both time and space, and yet the events of each
are actual experiences of the soul ; for even in dream-
life we suffer and enjoy quite as keenly as in the wake-
ful world of grosser sense. A woman who sleeps and
dreams, finds herself in two widely-different states within
the four-and-twenty hours. Now, the normal spiritual
state is very like a prolonged dream-life, to which our
world-sense or earthly condition is just the same as is
spiritual clairvoyance toan inhabitant of the physical
body ; that is to say, it is possible for spiritual beings
to become en rapport with this earthly world, and the
interests, persons and things thereof ; but this is not
their normal state or condition, any more than the
clairvoyance,.induced mesmerically, is the normal state
of the subject possessing the faculty.
It requires long and persistent effort to induce a con-
dition in a human being, which will for a time intromit
him into the greater or lesser Soul-worlds ; and just
so it is no easy matter for the inhabitants of those higher
and highest worlds to become en rapport with this.
These remarks are introductory to what follows.
After the first great thrill of terror had passed over,
I became comparatively calm, and soon -lost all :on-
sciousness whatever. Not a sensation ever felt before
in all my life was experienced now, but a new magazine
8*


178        DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

of emotions seemed to have suddenly been opened in
the depths of my being, and began to usurp the places
of the old ones.
Some years subsequent to the events now detailed, I
read the wonderful experiences of several persons, who
had taken the oriental drug known as hasheesh, and1 a
few years thereafter was induced to make an experi-
ment upon niyself with a little of the powerful stimu
lant. I became fully conversant with its influence, but
in no instance was there the least similarity between
the condition it brought on and the state in which I was
when reclining beneath the bower in the wood. I have
known the fullest, .deepest, most intense effect of that
singular drug ;* but nothing I ever experienced from
it-nothing I ever read of as having been experienced
by others who had foolishly taken it-at all resembled
the sensations to which I awoke under the trees near
that eastern city. Gradually the sense of lostness, which
for a time possessed me, passed away, and was succeeded
by a consciousness altogether distinct from that of
either the dream or the ordinary wakeful condition.
Not a sensation ever previously experienced-not even
in the very soul-vaults of my being-now swept the
nerve-harp within, to solace, actuate or annoy ; but, in-
stead, there .came an indefinable PLEASURE-sENE-a
sort of hyper-sensual ecstasy, by no means organic, but
diffused over the entire being. I have every reason to
believe that this feeling is always experienced by the
newly dead. Persons who have'been resuscitated after
drowning, suspension by the neck, and asphyxia, all
unite in testifying, that so far as their experience went,
*"Nothing on earth could ever induce me to take a drachm of this
accursed drug again.

death was a pleasant feeling, and its joys supreme, even
ii what to spectators may have seemed the terrible
passing hour. This sensation, like all others, cannot
be verbally described ; it was as if the keenest pleasures
known to us in the body were infinitely prolonged and
strung out over the entire nerve-sea, instead of a single
organ or two.
I cannot perhaps convey my meaning to some people
better than by saying that. the sensation was akin to
the feeling of an instantaneous relief from the most ex-
cruciating pain-the toothache, for instance.  I was
not, at first, conscious of possessinga body ; not even
the ultra-sublimated material one of which we hear so
much said in these latter days; but a higher, nobler
consciousness was mine-namely, a supremely radiant
soul-majesty.
My ears did not hear; but Sound-Nature's music--
the delicious, but still melodies of earth and space, and
all things else, seemed to pour in upon my ravished
soul, in rich full streams, through a thousand avenues.
The eye did not see, but I was all sight. There was no
organ of locomotion, as on the earth, nor were such
needed ; but my spirit seemed to be all motion, and it
knew instinctively, that by the power of the thought-
wish, it could reach any point within the boundaries of
earth where it longed and willed to be ; but. not a sin-
gle*yard beyond it. Let it be -here distinctly under-
stood, that the condition in which. I now found myself,
was precisely the same as that of the higher class, of
spiritual beings, when they are in .the peculiar state
wherein they can for a limited period, and to a certain
extent, become connected with this world, wherein they
have once lived, and from which they have passed over

DEALINGS WITH ,THE DEAD.


180          DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
the bridge of Death to the brighter realms beyond ; in
other words, I was connected with two worlds, and the,
states.incident to the residents of both, at one and the
same time.
Distinctively and most clearly does memory retain.
all the marvelous changes from the pre-state of that
auspicious afternoon.
What is especially remarkable, is, that the condition
was so peculiar, that the freed soul could, and did, after
a tire, take close notice of material things, even while
that same soul-gaze penetrated the surface, and beheld
their essences. The vision was not bounded by the
obstacles which impede ordinary sight. Every object
was, more or less, transparent ; and one very singular
peculiarity of all bodies, of whatever kind, was this:
the trees, stones, hills, mountains, everything, appeared
as if composed of absolute fire.  A certain object I
knew, from its shape, to be a large tree, with brown
bark,. white wood, and green leaves ; yet none of these
colors were there now, but instead, the trunk appeared
to be a huge cylinder of gray fire, not in one mass, but
in interwoven streaks, all actively flaring upward, and
bound together by a circle of brighter fire (the inner
bark), which in turn was encompassed by a dull brown
band of faintly flickering flame. Each leaf was, also
nothing but a vari-formed disk of purple and orange
fire. Thus it was with all that I beheld.
Fire, in someform, constitutes the life of all beings,
of whatsoever nature; of this I am firmly convinced.
These strange sights caused me to reason in this wise:
"If dull matter is so filled with the divine luminescence,
what must be the appearance of a human being? Surely
a man must present an astonishing sight! Of a cer-

DEALINGS WITI THE DEAD.       181

tainty," said I, "this must be Eternity, and I am now a
free soul! 0, that I might behold- another soul than
mine, and learn somewhat of its mysteries, and reach
the understanding of a few of the deeper things of its
nature." Scarcely had this desire taken form, than a
sense of involuntary motion-took possession, and I felt
myself slowly and positively rising in space, at an angle
of eighty degrees with the horizon. Amazement! The
sensation was not unpleasant ; but as the ground re-
ceded apparently, the novelty of the situation produced
emotions that most certainly were. It is impossible to
describe one's feelings; nor shall such an %attempt be
here essayed. Suffice it therefore, that I rose to such a
height, that, judging by the faint gleams of the earth-
fires in the hills, and the indistinct shimmering of the
city itself, I conjectured, that when at the highest point,
not less than five miles, in a straight line, separated me
from the peak of the tallest mountain within sight.
Having reached this altitude, I began to descend the
opposite arm of the triangle,,whose base was on the
earth's surface, and reached the ground in the neigh-
borhood of a city in central New York, distant from
my point of departure not less than two hundred miles.
Of course, it was impossible to even conjecture either
the means by which this journey was accomplished, or
the motives prompting the wierd power which effected
it ; but whatever be the reasons'of my coming; one thing
is certain-here I am, and nothing remains but to abide
the issue, whatever it may be, thought I.
Even during the mental perturbation, which was the
natural result of tpe extraordinary circumstances in
which I was placed, the question-asking faculty and pro-
bensity of my mind-one of its leading traits-found


182         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
sufficient time for exercise ; and many were the "whys,"
shows, " and "what fors" which causality propounded,
but to which at first there came no response. It is
almost impossible-to convey an idea of the-strange pro-
cesses by which knowledge flowed in upon my soul. It
seemed to be absorbed. Knowledge, all knowledge
may be said to float in the spiritual atmosphere, under-
lying the coarser air men breathe; and in certain
states, reachable by every human being, this knowledge
is drawn in involuntarily, just as salt absorbs moisture.
Near -the spot over which I hovered, [for the spirit
cannot touch gross substance directly, but moves along
on the surface of an aerial stratification near the earth:
- these strata are 'about sixty feet apart, and there are
transverse vertical and other lanes leading in all direc-
tions through them,] stood a house embowered in trees,
and in this house was a "study," and in that study I
saw the object, above all others, which had been the
theme of my longing, prior to the commencement of my
aerial journey, namely, a man ; and that man was ap-
parently educated and refined-for near where he sat
stood a library of books, one of which he was at that
moment engaged in reading. The title of the book
was "Neander's Life of Christ."
Calmly read the man ; still more calmly I observed
him, and his surroundings ; and the result of these ob-
servations was a firm conviction that the theories pro-
pounded by-Newton, and generally admitted to be true,
concerning light, color, and sound,, are not correct, or
even approximately so
No amount of disbelief on the part of .others; no
amount of cavilling, nor reasoning can ever convince me
that the experience now being recorded is anything less

DEALINGS WITH, THE DEAD.     183

than absolute fact-the direct contact of my inner being
with the truths here related : hence I hesitate not for
an instant in challenging the guesses of even a Newton,
and offsetting against them the results of my own per-
sonal inspection of the phenomena whereof his Principia
treats. In the first place, there are many different kinds
of light : in the present instance, there were two sorts
in operation ; first, the rays of solar light fell upon the
printed page, and with it a still finer, and more subtle,
white and velvet light, from the eyes of the man him-
self; which proved to me, that men gain a knowledge
of external things by means of an absolute and positive
irradiation from the soul itself, whose seat is in the cen-
tral brain ; and this, through the medium of the optic
nerves, retina and other delicate organs. In proportion
to the central power of the soul, it suffuses and bathes
everything in, and with, a subtle aura ; and this aura is
that mysterious telegraphic apparatus, by means of
which it issues its behests, and receives information.
While gazing upon this beautiful sight I distinctly
heard a bell ring; -and yet that bell was not sounded
within two hundred miles of the spot where at that
very moment the body of the writer lay wrapped in a
death-like pall of- insensibility, as was proved by the
actions of the man within the house, near which I stood,
investigating the sublimest of all phenomena-namely,
the Human Soul, its phases, modes and nature.
The student instantly laid down the book and rose to
his feet; not, however, to respond to the ringing, but
to bid his three or four little mischief-loving prattlers
be quiet, maw less noise, put aside the hand-bell, and
not disturb him by its tinkling.
All this was deeply interesting ; but what most at-

-


184          DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
tracted my attention was the discovery of the fact that
sound was not, as thousands of scientific men have as-
serted, a mere vibration of aerial particles, but, on the
contrary, was, and is, a fine, very fine and attenuated
substance, which leaves any and all objects" that are
jarred or struck-and leaves in greater or less volume,
in pointed pencil-rays, single rays, broad sheets of
various shapes, and in undulatory waves, according to
the nature of the object whence it flows, the force of the
blow struck, and the character of the object used in
striking. It would be quite, worth the while for our
savants to make experiments to verify, or, if possible,
refute these statements.
The man resumed his seat ; and I saw that from his-
internal brain there proceeded to the outer ears innu-
merable fibres of pale green light, and that the pencil-
rays and sheets of sound, which were at that moment
floating through all contiguous -space, came in direct
contact with the terminals of what,-for want of a better
name,-I will call fibres, or, more properly, fibrils ; the
contact took place within the rim of the external ear,
and the sound was instantaneously transmitted, or tele-
graphed, along the auditory nerve to the sanctum
sanctorum of his very soul.
The question naturally arises in the reader's mind at
this point: "  How was it possible for you to become
cognizant of sound under the very peculiar circum-
stances and conditions by which you were surrounded
for the time being?  You could not hear by means of
the outer ear and auditory nerves, for it is lain, if your
story be indeed a recital of actual events, an not merely
. a splendid philosophical fiction, that your material hear-
ing apparatus' had been left behind you, in the body,

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.      185

beneath the trees on the outskirts of the New England
city ?" A very fair question this, and one demanding
a fair answer. To it I reply thus : The human being,
externally, is a multiple thing, at the bottom of which
lies the invisible soul : Soul is the thinking, feeling,
knowing essence ; spirit is its casket ; the body but its
nursery-garments, the clothing of its juvenility. By
means of the body, the soul, in which alone all power
and faculty inheres, is enabled to come in contact with
the material world. By means of its inner or. spirit-
body, which is but an out-creation, it holds converse
with the worlds of Knowledge, Spirit and Principle.
The fibrils alluded to are not mere emanations from the
physical brain, or its ganglia, but they are wires, one
end of which is eternally anchored in the very soul itself,
which latter is, of course, the man per se. The wires,
though passing through, are by no means rooted in the
corporeal structure ; hence, the han or woman, without
a flesh-and-blood body, experiences but little, if any,
difficulty in hearing sounds made in this material world.
As it is with regard to hearing, so also it is, to the
same degree, with reference to the power of seeing the
corporeal forms of earthly things. The perfection and
ease, however, with which this is done, depends upon
the normal condition of the disembodied man himself.
If he or she, as the case may be, is sound, sane, clear
and morally healthy, its powers, as with one yet in the
flesh, are augmented and positive ; therefore it can, by
processes already sufficiently explained, see, hear, feel, and
even read, not only books, but the unexpressed thought
of a person still embodied with whom he or she may
for the time being be in sympathetic contact. Very
seldom, however, can the recently dead do these things


186

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

with the same ease and- facility that others can who
have been over the river a longer time. This I have'
abundantly proved ; and this, too, explains a point
which, as certain believers in the Spiritology of the day
inform me, has puzzled thousands of investigators, i. e.:
why some of the dead people, with whom they claim to
hold very' frequent converse, can only be communicated
with by means of hard labor on their part, while others
readily understand and respond. Some can faintly,
others clearly see and hear;,some can correctly read
people's thoughts ; others cannot, and must be addressed
vocally ; others still require all questions to be written,
in order that they may see and understand. The facul-
ties and powers of dead people are doubtless as varied,
dissimilar and unevenly developedas are those of per-
sons on the hither side of Time.
The study of. the human soul is a great one, and en-
tirely worthy of a life's devotion. It has been mine to
seek the solution of many of its mysteries, and in a few
instances success has crowned the effort and rewarded
the laborer. The final answer to the question is this:
the sounds were conveyed to my inner being directly,
and without the need of any flesh-and-blood organ of
sense. Let us now turn toward a far more sublime
mystery, namely: THE VERY SOUL ITSELF.
h We %iged      be- u Z-A .
WITH unmingled astonishment I gazed upon the man
as he sat there in his quiet study. I had often been told
that man was a microcosm, or a world in miniature ;
but closer observation proved to me -that he was more
than that-for, instead of a world, he was a universe of

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.          187
worlds and mysteries, Q few of the latter of which were
comprehended by me for the first time.
Standing thus, I reasoned after this wise : ' Unques-
tionably all the faculties and qualities pertaining to
man, as we find him-upon the earth, are the results of a
design on the part of the august Mind which placed him
here. The purpose and function of these faculties and
qualities, are to subserve man's best interests, his proper
unfolding, and the divine purpose-here ; and, doubt-
less, when by death he shall be transported elsewhere,
to meet a new destiny and act in a new drama, other
qualities and faculties, adapted to his- changed position,
will be given him ; or, if already latent, will be duly
brought into action. Perhaps their seeds are already
planted in him; if sQ, they will assuredly spring up at
death, blossom in the Soul-world, and bear golden fruit
in that place, and at that period of the infinite year,
when God shall so ordain it. We none of us know what
we fairly are ; and no one, not even the loftiest seraphs,
can tell positively what we shall be ; yet, that man is
re-served, and will through all his trials be pre-served,
for some great, some yet undreamed-of destiny or end,
there cannot be the shadow of a Aubt. Nor will this
final end be the mere eternal dwelling in the Valhallas,
of which we sometimes dream ; nor in the 'spheres,'
about which 'spiritual mediums' so glibly talk, nor in
the gold-paved cities -whereof we so often sing. Our
final destiny is none of these. Beyond all question, much
of the knowledge acquired in the earth-life will be
found at death to have served its purpose here, and
will never again come into play.
Not a single one of the grander, more noble longings
and ambitions of the soul can find their field of action

46


*

16

188

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

here ; but they are deathless ; and as God has provided
a supply for every proper demand in all things else, so
He has in this instance ; and therefore,.though the as-
piring soul may pass away with its strong wings droop-
ing, and weak for want of exercise, yet, up there-in its
grand heaven-the air is pure and the field immense, the
mountains tall, and the oceans wide ; and the eagle soul
shall essay its loftiest flight, and grow stronger from
the trial. What a person acquires here is but a pro-
phecy of harvests to be reaped in the great hereafter.
Man is really a unitary being, but seemingly is da-
plex, and even multiple ; but this is seeming only, for
in fact there is but one real sense in man-which truth
I learned as I gazed upon the student in the chamber ;
and that sense is intuition-the human sprout of an in-
finite and God-like faculty, dormant in most people, yet
incontestibly destined to an immense unfolding in all ;
albeit, it is so deeply buried in some that it can only-
express itself through organs. "And God said, Let
is make man in our own image ;" and so He made him;
but God is ubiquitous, omnipresent, omniscient-man is
not ; and yet, if Scripture.be worthy of our regard, and
Progress be not a iham and delusive dream, the tre-
mendous prophecy implied in the line from Genesis just
quoted is certainly to be realized ; and man is destined
to move, through thorny fields-and slowly, it may be-
yet stilt to move, towards UBIQUITY and OMNISCIENCE !
Intuition is the sprout of which they are the full tree.
True, man shall never reach absolute godhood, yet
ever-will he move toward it.
"If this be. so," says the caviler, "and God be sta-
tionary, and ndt an advancing Being, there must come a
time-even though when many a yet unborn eternity

DEALINGS WITH TIE DEAD.

189

shall have grown hoary with age-still there must come
a time when man will overtake Deity ; and then there
can no longer be a God I" Specious this, very I Why?
Because'God, though not a-progressive Being, as we
understand it, yet is infmite; and man must ever be
finite. God's omniscience is what the word proclaims
it-all-knowing ; but man shall be much-knowing. He
is forced to approach Perfection in-straight lines, and
when he shall have attained immense power in any
given direction, there will still be forever germinating
new faculties, before the untold millions of which there
shall ever be an infinite stretch, a limitless field, an end-
less road. God also is kaleidoscopic; and, supposing it
were possible for man to reach the point of greatness at
which Deity is to-day, yet one exertion of His volition-
and,lo1 He presents a new aspect to the wondering
souls of infinitude, more marvelous than before, and
reveals points which will place a new infinity between
man and their attainability ; and so on for all the
epochs yet to be-epochs whereof eternities, as we un-
derstand them, shall only count as moments in the ever-
lasting year., Death is but an awakening, and there
are to be myriads of -these.
All this I-knew and felt ; all these. mighty-' foreshad-
owings flowed into my soul, as, with clarified intellect,
and spirit bowed down with awe, I stood gazing at the
man within the chamber. More : Reason, the king-
faculty given us hee, was only intended to act as our
pilot through life, and will have fulfilled its main office
when we step into the grave ; but very soon after we
step out of it, on the other side, the UNION 'OF THE
SENSES begins to take place, and the SENsN--whose ele-
ments are the senses-comes into play-the all-absorb-


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

ing Intuition. This uni-faculty is not a thing of earthly
origin, though it here deepens and grows strong ; it was
an integer of the original being-became a part of the
soul at the very instant wherein it fell from God ; it is
a triple faculty, and its role is Prevision, Present-know-
ing, and Reminiscence.
The skin of a man is not himself, although whoever
sees one, recognizes something human. Beneath this
skin is the muscular system, interlaced with a magnifi-
cent net-work of nerves, all in the form pf, yet by no
means the man himself. Next we come to the osseous
system-the skeleton-the God-fashioned framework of
the house he lives in-and a house only-one, too, that
is. often let, to bad tenants, seeing how zealously they
abuse it and batter down its walls. Now, when we see
a skeleton, we know it-is something that points towards
the human, yet do not for that reason, even momenta-
rily, confound the bones with the individual ; for we
instinctively know that the wonderful occupant of this
bony edifice is, and to bodily eyes will forever remain
invisible. Whoever looks for a man, must go below
and above skin, flesh, muscles, and bones, to find him.
Well, let the searcher enter the domain of the senses-
a country that lies a long distance beyond the nervo-
osseous land... Ah! here is the man, somewhere in this
region of sense. Let's see ! one, two, three, five, or a
dozen-no matter about counting them-yet nowhere in
all this region have we found or can find the man. We
are certainly nearer to him than we were awhile ago ;
yet, not finding him, we conclude to go a little: further
in the search. 'He dwells in the Faculties.' Not so;
try again. 'In the passions.' Further still; not home:
yet. 'In God-like reason, and the quality-parlors of viri.

tue, aspiration, expression-each one step nearer the
goal.' Go a little deeper, and in the centre of the brain
you will find a WINGED GLOBE OF CELESTIAL PBIE, AN
WHICH DWELLS THE MAN i-his part of God crowded
into less than three square inches of'surface. Here is
the seat of the soul ; here is the Grand Depot, at whieh
all the Nerve, and Thought, and Knowing, Thinking
ana Feeling trains, and telegraphic lines converge and
meet ! -This Winged Globe is a House of Many Man-
sions, eternal in itself ; and the principal parlor, in the
grandest palace of them all, is devoted to the Peerless
Power--IrTuIToN I Born in man, it often lies perdu,
or latent, till the final passage, and never bursts into
full activity at once, save in very rare instances, as in
the case of those wonderful genii, Newton, La Place,
and men of that order ; and even in these, it is only
partially active. It requires peculiar conditions 'for its
expansion, just as the reasoning and other faculties re-
quire time and exercise. The soul is really a divine
monad,* a particle, so to speak, of the Divine brain-a
celestial corruscation from the Eternal heart ; and, for
that reason, an eternal existence-immortality being its
very essence, and expansion constituting its majestic na-
ture ; and the Soul, this monad, was once an integer of
God himself--was sent forth by His' fiat-became in-
carnated and an individual, separate and distinct from,
yet having strong affinities for all things' material--
stronger for all things spiritual, and: for its brethren-
Monad-frst deflnitiop,- an ultimate atom; asingpl0 sub~ awce
without parts, indivisible, a primary constituent of mater: 'Secod
definition-a monad is not a material, but a formal atomit beir im
possible for a thing to be at oncematerial aid possessedof arafuni
ty and indivisibility

191

190


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.      193

192        DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

and an attraction toward its ultimate Source stronger
than all else beside. Here, then, I lay bare the very
corner-stone of the splendid Temple of Progress, whose
foundations are laid in Time, but whose turrets catch
the gleams from the Eternal Sun of suns, whose warm-
ing rays diffuse themselves over every starry island in
the tremendous Ocean of Being     .
Intuition is but an awakening of the inmost soul to
an active personal consciousness of what it knew by vir-
tue of its Divine genesis.
Suffering appears to be one means toward this
awakening, and the consequent intensification of the
individuality ; and the passions of man, labor, and evjl,
are also agents to this end.
Man -is beset by evil on all sides, doubtless to
the end that, in shunning it, and conserving the .self-
hood, he may effect the earliest possible completion and
rounding out of his entire being, and, consequently, be
all the better prepared to encounter the immense des-
tiny that lies before him in the Hereafter. * * * * * *
And I gazed upon the man within the chamber'; the
weather to him-but not to me, for I was totally unaf-
fected-seemed , to be oppressively warm; and it was
exceedingly difficult for him, after a while, to overcome
the somnolent or drowsy influence thus induced, and
prevent himself. frqm falling asleep. However, he
made strenuous efforts to conquer the tendency, and
for. a time it was mastered ; but, in the struggle be-
twen himself and the slumber-fay, a secret was disclosed
to me, and another beautiful arcanum  of the human
economy revealed.
The student of these pages will remember that ere-
while I mentioned the astonishing fact-one of great

value to all who think---that I was as a perfectly-dis-
embodied soul during ,the experience now recounted,
and could and did behold, at one and the:same time,
both the external and the essential part of whatever my
glance fell upon. 'The reader will perhaps arrive at a
clearer understanding of what is here meant to be
conveyed if this double power be thus illustrated :  .
person may look through one glass vase at several
others, many colored, within it, the last of which con-
tains the image of a man, in still finer glass,-his eye
resting upon the surface of each particular vase, yet at
the same time penetrating and grasping the whole.
Thus it was in the present case : I saw,-and what
obtained of that student in the room obtains of all im-
mortal beings;--the clothes; beneath the clothing his
body ; and interfilling that, as water does a sponge, I
beheld the spiritual man.
lee let me define a few terms : Body is that which
is purely inaterial, corporeal, dense, weighable, atomical
or particled ; spirit is a thing of triplicity : in the most
external sense, that which interpenetrates, flows
through, from, and constitutes the life of material'exist-
ences is spirit.; second, the great menstruum in which
the 'universe floats and has its being is spirit, but vastly
different from the foregoing ; and third,- the mental
operations, as well as their results, are spiritual--a
man's thought, for instance. ' Great care must be taken
to distinguish these last two from the first, ; his the
effluvium  from, or surrounding aura of     aerial
forms and things. Soul is that more states       1e
anat thing which thinks, feels, tastes, sees,
pires, suffers, hates, loves, fears, calculatesand
Hoping that these definitions will be retained li4
9


194          DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
that my meaning only will be given to the terms used,
we will now proceed. I became a rapt observer, not of
the man in the study, as a person, but as a rare mechan-
ism. The clothes he wore, emitted a dull, faint, leaden-
hued cloud, perfectly transparent, and extending about
three inches from their surface in all directions. His
body was apparently composed of orange-colored flame,,
and its emanations reached to the distance of fifteen'
feet on all sides ; it penetrated the wood-work, walls,
chairs, tables,-all with which it camein contact ; and
I noticed two'facts : first, that its form was an oblate
spheroid, and second, that a portion of it adhered to
whatever. he touched.
Thus it is true that a man leaves a portion of himself
wherever he may chance to go: this explains why a dog
is enabled to trace his master through the streets of a
crowded city. * *-* * * When the man rose to silence
the noise of his children, I discerned the form of this
sphere, in the centre of a similar one of which every
created being stands. Its poles were the head and feet,
and its equator, whose bulge exceeded the polar dimen-
sions about one-fortieth, was directly on the plane of the
abdominal centre. This sphere penetrated that of the
clothes ; and, although it was so marvelously fine, still
it, like its exemplar-a large soap-bubble-appeared to
be particled, or heterogeneous. Within the physical
body of the man there was a second,-itself constituting
another human form, like the vase within a vase. The
substance of this last was beautiful and pearly; its mass
was apparently in perfect coalescence,-indivisible,
atomless and unparticled. This was the man's true
shell-his house, his home,--the outbirth of, but not
the man himself.

,

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.         195
And now the question is asked me: "What consti-
tutes the ego : what is the man ?" The onsri-
Soul is a thing sui generic, and unique. Sight, taste,
and the senses generally, are some of its properties s
reflection, reason, and fancy are a few of its qualities;
-judgment its prerogative ;-physical scenes itsthea-
tre ;-earthly experience its school ;-and the second
life its university, whence it will graduate to-what ?
This shall bye-and-bye be answered. Time is-but one
of a vast multitude of other phases of existence, through
which it yet must pass. We know something about
its propensities, powers, methods and qualities; abut
only a very little about the soul itself. We realize
somewhat of its accidents and incidents, and not much
else beside. Most assuredly, modern  Spiritualism"
has not added much to our knowledge; it may do so
in the future, but some of us do not like to wait.
The human being may be likened unto a circular
avenue, divided by a central wall, which separates the
known from the unknown. We begin at the centre of
this wall, our conscious point, and look toward the
outer edge of the, circle ; we see one hemisphere, and
one only. What pertains to the other hemisphere-.'
the one behind this conscious point?' Make the tria,to
ascertain what lies on the thither side ; seek to fathoim
itereachedithyou, and what results ? Why the wall
is reached, nothing more ; you strike it, think it, feel
But, but cannot recede from nor look behind yourself.
Bothat there is a greater mystery behind than the one
before you is proved by the fact that your entire being
is but the result of an infinite, propulsive power, which
whirled you into being, but will never hurl you out.


DEALINGS WITH TH E DEAD.

9EALINGs WITH THE DEAD-
ere is a point reachable, quite beyond that of outer
consciosness-
Well, the man strove to baffle, the tendency to som-
nolence. His brain was one living mass of phosphor-
likeluminescence ; there was a large and brilliant
globe, apparently of white fire-mist, encompassing the
head. Its center rested exactly on what anatomist
call the corpus cdalosum; and this body-this central
cerebral viscus-I affirm to be the seat of conscious
nest,-the blazing throne of the Immortal Soul  I
On other occasions I have beheld similar bright
glob s of what can only be compared to pure ire.
Others claim to have witnessed the 'same; they have
described it, and uniformly, nay, invariably locate this
ball on the precise spot indicated. The volume of this
singular something, varies in different people; from the,
bulk of a large pea to some three or four inches in mean
diameter, in which latter case it, of course, has entrates
axis in the place indicated, while its body pene
the circumjacent brain. The effulgence, as thavolue,
also varies in different persons. In some it is, compar-
atively speaking, no brighter than the flame of a good
candle, while in others it is an infinite intensification of
the. dazzling radiance of the Drummond or the calcium
light. In the man before me this globs was nearly a
perfect sphere ; in other instances I have observed  s
shape to be somewhat angular. The better the per-
son, the greater the intelligence (intuitive, not mr
memory-learning), the larger, smoother, and rounder is
this wondrous Soul-Sun.*
*T hienal globe is the sun of the microcosm ; a duller globe of
ire, situated behind the stomach, in the Solar Plexus, is its moon, and
the phreno-orgaUS  artars;:the Passional organs are the planets;

In the student I beheld the operations of this.great
mystery; Whenever the drowsiness came over hinti
and he exerted his will to keep it off-I noticed that
one side of this winged globe (for there'ere two
wing-like appendages attached thereto, something l
the connections of the uterus) would collapse;an
straightway a perfect stream of radiant fire-flecksf ent
forth in the opposite direction, like sparkraysifrom thie
sun. These corruscations sped through all parts of the
brain, causing it to sparkle more brightly; they ran
along the nerves, leaped to the muscles, and diffused new
life and animation throughout the body,-which being
accomplished, the globe resumed its former shape again.
This struck me as being at once both sublime and
curious ; but something still more so now took place.
As I observed above, when he strove to keep awake,
the globe became indented, from the outside, which was
generally smooth,--albeit a countless multitude of filmy
rays of light streamed forth in all directions--the sur-
face meanwhile retaining its polished, burnished, and
ineffably dazzling general appearance.
The man laid down his book,.lifted a pen, dipped it
in the inkstand, held it over the table for a while, and
appeared to be concentrating his thoughts.; and while
he did so the winged globe within his head began to
enlarge until it occupied not less than four times its
original space within the brain, This it did gradually,
and as gradually resumed its 'former bulk ; but, in the
mean time, his hand had flown over the paper, and the
man had indited A THOUGHT! Anxious to know what
the Sensations are the meteors, &amp;c., &amp;c., there being not merely a
perfect correspondence, but a wonderful similarity, complete and
full, betWeen the universe without and the universe within.


198         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
this thought was, I looked upon the paper, and was
surprised by observing a very curious phenomenon.
The words written upon the paper were:-"The an-
cients were far behind the moderns in general intelli-
gence, but far, very far beyond them in isolated instances
of mental power. Probably the simplicity of the lives
of devout men of yore had a powerful influence in
bringing out the concealed treasures, and in developing
the extraordinary conceptive power which not a few of
them undoubtedly possessed. Isaiah, Jeremiah, Job and
the great Cathayan have never been equaled, in their
several specialties, by men of later times ; it is ex-
tremely doubtful if they ever will be. Really great
men are few and scarce in any age, but popular men
are plentiful in all eras. It is only the sad-hearted
man,-he who stands and walks alone in they crowded
cities of the world, shunned, laughed at, derided,
scorned and unsupported,-who succeeds in engraving
a ame upon the walls of Time; and of all that ever
lived, Jesus, the Nazarene, looms up in such magnificent
proportions, over the edges of the dead years, that we
instinctively know that he was a real personage,-one-
who lived and loved, suffered and died with, for, and
among men ; and we reject the absurdities of Strauss
and the Cavilers, and triumphantly proclaim that Jesus
was not a myth. He sought to do good, and not to merit
the plaudits of the mob, or of those who rule. A popu-
lar man is one who keeps just within the front ranks of
the human army, leading it whither its fancy and whim
may at the moment prompt ; but a great man is one
who volunteers to become the pioneer of the race, and
is, at the sane time, the Herald of the coming age of
Goodness. He feels the pulse of God in his heart, --

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.       199

and he KNOWS to live and lives to KNOw. We are ap
proaching an era when human genius shall be the rule
and not the exception, as now. When that day shall
dawn, the earth will fully blossom. It has painfully
labored heretofore, and brought forth abortions-.-per-
feet, seemingly, to their contemporaries, but, in view of
her yet untested energies, abortions still."
Now, the ink had scarcely dried upon the paper, and
yet the dark violet of the aura, emitted by it when in
the inkstand, and which rose from the paper wherever
the pen touched it, was almost immediately obscured
by a far brighter one, which proceeded from the gene-.
ral writing ; by which I discovered that THOUGHTS
WERE LIVING THINGS, ENDOWED WITH A BEING IN THEM-
SELVES ! This thought was really a part of the man
himself. I beheld a small cell within the winged globe
open and emit a line of fire, which leaped to one of the
cerebral organs, passing up one of the'fibrils and down
the other-=thence to a nerve along it to the arm, the
pen, and to the paper, where it became diffused and
.sealed in the inky letters. And at that moment it came
to me, from the far-off regions of positive Knowledge,
that, should the paper containing the ideas be burnt, yet
the 'THouGHT itself could ,never perish, because it was
part and parcel of a Soul; -but it would float about
in the human world-at some time be absorbed into a
human soul, undergo a new gestation, and in due time
be born again into the conscious realm around us.
Much more the man wrote,; but at length his weary
task and the sultry weather overpowered him, and,
rising from his seat, he closed the blinds, threw himself
upon the lounge, and in a few minutes was fast asleep.
While watching the process, I became aware, for the


00          DEALINGS WITH TNE DEAD.
first time, that I was being practically educated by a
glorious being-an inhabitant of the Soul-world-whose.
presence was now made clear, direct and palpable.
This bright one conversed with me by a process not
ily explained, but an idea of which may be gained if
we call it infusion of thought. His lips moved not, and
yt the full meaning he intended,-was transmitted, even'
more perfectly than if by the use of words. Such be-
inag can speak, but not so effectively as by the silent
language.
The object of his visit, he said, was to instruct me in
certain essentials with reference to future usefulness on
my pirk, but principally that the world might gain cer-
tain needed light upon the soul, and its career, through
a book or books thereafter to be written. His name,
he said, was RAMus-that, in history, he was best
known as Thothmes, or Thotmor, and that he was an
Egyptian, of the second dynasty-a king, and the elev-
enth of the line.
this was all I learned of him at that time ; for after
the brief introduction, he pointed toward the man upon
the sofa, and bade me "Look I" The man was wrapt
in deep sleep, and the winged globe within his head
was rapidly altering its shape. First, it flattened out to
a disk j this disc concaved toward the skull ; then it
put forth a point in the' direction of the medulla oblon-
;°   gata, into which it rapidly passed, entered the spinal=
marrow, and ran along the vertebrae until it reached
the vicinity of the stomach. Here it left, and instantly
immerged itself within the solar plexus. The man was in
a death-like, dreamless slumber. "The soul," said Thot-
mor, "has gone to infuse new life throughout the physi-
cal body, in doing which it also recuperates its own en-

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.      201

ergies. Souls can grow tired, but they find rest-not in
inactivity,.as doth the body, but by a change of action.
The mathematician, weary of figures, finds repose by
performing chemical experiments'or in studying music.
That man's soul is now supplying fuel to the bodyby
converting the essences of his system into the pabulum
of life. Presently its task will be finished, whereuponfit
will again resume its seat upon the regal throne of 'its
own mighty world."   *. *       *    *    *
Thotmor ceased to speak. I turned from the sleeper
in wondering awe, and, guided by the rare being at my
side, felt that I was once more rising through the air.
TURN where we will, ask whom we may, for informa-
tion, we are sure to be met with the stereotyped "Know
thyself." As well tell me to leap over the salt seal! I
ask all mankind, the ocean, land, air, sun, moon, stars,
history-everything else, both material ,and mental,
sacred and profane-to point me out a single human
being who really knows himself, or even approximately
so. 'Where, I ask, is the wonderful mortal-tell, 0 tell
me where ?-and from hollow space the echoes, mock
me-where ?
To know oneself ! The words are easily spoken or
penned ; but to do it, is, of all things, the hardest and
most difficult; for this very selfhood's personality is,
beyond all others, the special acquaintance of whom we
know the least,
The sentence "Know thyself " was written over the
porch of an. ancient temple. The man who placed it
there must have been deeply spiced with satire and cyni-


202        DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.      20

cism, else he certainly would have assigned mankind a
task less arduous-a task compared to which the twelve
labors of Hercules were mere child's play. Now, al-
though this feat maj never have been accomplished, still
it lies within the range of the possibilities ; and in de-
claring that a man may, by study, find out both himself
and God, I fly in the face of current philosophy, and
deny the truth of the noted dogma of modern sophists,
that " It is impossible for a man to explore the laby-
rinths of his own nature :-a principle cannot compre-
hend itself." Why is the logic of this doctrine faulty ?
Because, first, God can certainly comprehend man. All,
there is of man is mind ; all there is of Deity is the
same. 'IA. principle thus comprehends itself.
'Man is God's image, and can do on a small what He
does on an infinite scale; and the only difference be-
tween Deity and a full man simply is, that the former
can comprehend the parts of the Realm separately and
together, while the'latter can only grasp each truth as
it swims to him on the rolling waves of Time's great
sea ; yet, so fad as he goes, he comprehends himself.
The day will dawn when, looking back at what he was,
he shall fully understand the mystery ; and as he ad-
vances, he will continually read the foregone scrolls,
while new accrements of being will ever be his--each
one in turn to undergo the scrutiny, each one to be Fully
understood, and so on forever and for aye. Were it
not so, Being would be worthless and our-existence :A
dreadful farce. Secondly : Intuition has already been
proved to be the shoot, of which Omniscience is the
tree-which fact disposes of the absurd dogma just
quoted, and forever.
There are two mighty  *problems up for solution.

These are : " What and where is God ?" on which I
intend to write some day ; and the other is, "What is
the Soul ?" which I am now partially solving. This
last has proved itself to be the profoundest of all ques-
tions, and very difficult of solution; but only so because
investigators have mistaken their vocation, and an-
alyzed afew of the faculties, qualities; and affections of
the mind-all the while imagining the soul itself to be
under their microscopes-whereas the soul was calmly,
placidly looking -on, and wondering why they were so
busily intent upon examining the furze and bushes, in-
stead of the deep, rich soil whence they sprung.
Faculty, Fancy and Dream-life are but three of the
Soul's most common moods ; and yet metaphysicians
have, confined themselves to but little else than their
analysis. These are but three little rays from amidst
a multitude of others, proceeding from one common
source; yet, if even these were all analyzed, understood,
and known, the great center whence they emanate
would still remain as great a mystery as ever. Nearly
all that we know of soul is really not of it, but of its
methods of display.
There is something more of man than life, limb, sense-
faculty, affections, feeling and sex. There's a depth
beneath them 'all,. and into, these deeps I believe it pos-
sible to dive, and to bring up many a pearl, and crys-
tal, and grains of golden sand from the floor of his
being-from out the silver sea -of life, whose waters,
flow soul-ward, and have their rise beneath the throne,
whereon sitteth for evermore the Infinite Eternal-the
great I AM: Aye, it is possible to know oneself, not-
withstanding that, to ninety-nine persons in a hundred,
there seems to be an impenetrable clod, circumvolving


204         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
them-an obscurity, thick as darkest night, hemming
them in on all sides. Yes, thank Heaven! man can
untie the gordian knot, and triumphantly pass the Ru-
bicon, but not over the bridge of Mesmerism, ocksession,
drugs, or any of the ordinary means usually resorted
to ; but through the continued exertion of STEADFAST-
NESS, ATTENTION, PURPOSE, and wILL--the four golden
posts to which are hung the double =gates, which open
in both worlds.
.Souls are, of course, the subjects of number, and in
this sense are "particles,"--souls of course being plural;
yet soul is not, for although you may subtract forty-
eight from forty-nine, and leave a remaining unit, yet
that unit is absolutely one; and you could-no more dis-
member it, than you could find the lost particles of dust
upon a midge's wing. Spirit is substance in absolute
coalescence ; matter is substance, whose particles never
touch each other ; and soul is a developed monad. A
thought of a house is,'until that thought be actualized--
surrounded with matter conforming to its shape-a
monad. There was a period when God was alone ; he
thought, and the 'product of that thought is the material
universe, as we see it; he thought again-and o! those.
thoughts, each one complete .in itself, took outer gar-
ments, and became human beings. Far off, in the past
eternities, God's thoughts'went forth; these were the
nmonads. First, they entered into lower forms, then
higher and higher, till at last they reached organiza-
tions adapted to the perfect ripening of that which had
all along been growing. The ripening produced In-
telligeice : that intelligence is the soil, out of which
Intuition grows; and what this last advances to, we
already know, How long, and through what countless

a

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.      205

numbers of diverse forms, these transmigrations lasted,
and passed, it were impossible to tell. - We all have
indistinct retrovisions, flashes of back-thought, dim and
vague reminiscences of a pre-state of existence ; and
we also know, that there are marvelous resemblances
between men and the. animal creation, just as if the
soul, on quitting an inferior for a superior form, re-
tained something of its former surroundings and char-
acteristics. Some men physically resemble the ox, lion,
tiger, dog, owl, bat, deer ; and-we know that myriads
resemble in their mentality the traits of character, hab-
its and dispositions pertaining to all these animals, and
others, as the fox, snake, eagle, peacock, swine, and so
on to the end of a long chapter. "When I was a flow-
er," said 'a little child. That child had an intuition of
a mighty fact !
Now all these astonishing likenesses are not acci-
dental; but exist in accordance with the great law of
Transmigration. Mind me: I do not say, or believe,
that any man or woman was ever a dog, viper, vampire-
bat or tiger ; but I do affirm that the monads, which now
constitute their souls, once sustained a very close rela-
tionship to the beasts of the field, and have not yet got
rid of the effects of the alliance. This is a matter too
clear to be disputed : else, .why these very remarkable
resemblances?  I know, that some people will "pooh!
pooh !" at this idea ; but that wont 'account for' the
likeness! A man never was a dog, or An owl; yet, that
both dogs and owls were originally made, in order that
the human monad, in passing a sort of gestation period
in them, might be ripened slowly, and prepared for what
he is now, I have at present no manner of doubt  In-
deed, human bodies, both physical and spiritual, are but


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.       207

206        DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

other and higher forms, to which the Winged Globe,
Man, has transmigrated in its passage from minus to
plus-from bad to better, and from better to best. A
dog, owl, bat or human body is only so much matter-;
and the sole business of 'matter' is to furnish so many
different sorts of huts, houses, and palaces for spirit-
ual tenants, wherein the primary schools may be attended
by the regal student-soul. I know tlhat even the disen-
thralled spiritual body is itself but a mere vehicle of
Soul, on its next upward - transmigration-is still but,
an adjunct, an out-prQjection of, and scarcely second-
cousin to, the tremendous mystery-Soul-the Winged'
Globe within it. We know that man can live withou-t his
carbonaceous body, which is but an incidental assump-
tion in his career, a sort of garb, worn at the longest
less than a century; that this period is scarce one sec-
ond in its immense year ;. and that he can see without
eyes, and know without cerebral organs.*
It is an axiom that whatever has one end, must also
* Many persons desire to know how to produce and cultivate clair-
voyance. To such I present the following rules, knowing them to be
efficient, and only requiring patience for success. 1st, Set apart the
first hour after retiring to bed nightly., Eat a light supper ; bind a
light silk bandage over the entire forehead and eyes, turn the face to-
ward the darkest corner of the room, and endeavor to s'ee. 2d, Never
call on a spirit to assist you. 3d, Keep the skin pure by daily ablu-
tions. 4th, Learn to concentrate the mind on a single object, and
keep it there. 5th, Fix it on something good, useful and true. 6th,
Pray fervently to God. 7th, Ask a mental question, and desire that
the symbolic answer may be given. 8th, Wish well to everything and -
everybody.=
The results will be--1st, You will see a dim haze. 2d, A spark of
light. 3d, Agreater light. 4th, Misty forms will float before you.
5th, They will grow distinct. 6th, Answers will flow into your mind.
7th, You will gradually merge into a radiant light ; behold the actual
dead, converse with them, and realize your soul's desire.

have another ; now, if a human soul has its first begin-
ning here, nothing is more certain than that it will have
an end somewhere. But the soul is mind-mind is God
and God is eternal. He ever existed, and ever will;
and the monads, the germ-souls here developed, and
hereafter perfected, are also eternal; they existed in all
times past, and can never cease to be, for their very
nature is Permanency. All bodies here, or elsewhere,
are but accompaniments-instruments, tools of the royal
spirit in one or more of its multitudinous phases of ex-
istence-that is to say, it creates, uses, and puts them
on to serve its purposes, till it can afford to dispense
with them : for human existence is a synonym of Eter-
nal Duration--is an immense circle : a circle is but an
infinite polygon: and bodily vehicles serve the. soul's
purposes during its passage over a very few of the,
straightlines whereof this polygon is composed. And,
beyond all doubt, the period will arrive-it may be
away in the far-off eternities-but nevertheless will
arrive, wherein the soul will dispense with all these
characteristics of its juvenility. No one associates legs,
arms, eyes, stomach, or sexual organs, with the idea of
God: why then should such things be eternally-predi-
' cated of man, who is. fashioned after the model of the
Infinite God Himself?
The body' of a man is a greater thing than any object
on earth beside; is.far greater than even the physical
world in which he lives, because it is the master pro-
duction of all the elements and forces in that world.
The spiritual form that man assumes, and to which he
may be said to transmigrate after the physical decease,.
is of far more importance, and altogether, greater than
is his previous physical and material "structure. A


08      -  DEALINGS WITH THE :DEAD.
single faculty of his measureless soul is infinitely greater
than the spfiit, nor may even an archangel comprehend
fully one of these faculties, at a glance, in view of its
limitless and expansive power. From one point he may
comprehend what the faculty was and-is, but not what
it can be: yet the soul itself has untold myriads of
these ; and only God himself can embrace all at one
mental grasp-He alone can fully and perfectly know
a soul as it was, is, and is to be. This does not con-
flict with previous assertions that a soul can compre-
head itself ; for God's omniscience embraces the past,
the present, and the future: manonly seizes upon the
first two. Virtue and Vice, and the organs it now
uses, are but incidents in the career of thisUNDER-GOD.
These things are of time-are transitory and fleeting;
but the man.is forever In view of this, what is a vice,
what is accident to this majestic being-the perfected
work of the viewless Lord of Infinite'Glory?
They are but flecks upon the rose-leaf-atoms on a
moon-beam! The immortal man is not fashioned of,.
such material as can, be forever marred by vice, forever
happy in what now constitutes the virtues. Its destiny
is ACTION, and in the perpetual transmigrations, con-
trasts and Changes of the hereafter, it will find its truest
account, and the proper subservence of the purposes of
the awful WILL which spake it into being. "Rest fort:
the weary," is there ? There is no rest ! MAN CAN
NEVER REST ! God does not ; why then should he ?
The immortal spark within is a thing of ceaseless
activities ; not&amp; in sins and repentances, but in noble
aspirations and high and lofty doing. Great God! I
cower in, the presence of the tiniest soul ever spoken
into being; for I feel, by reason of the great UNYEILINQ

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAIL 209
that occurred upon that wonderifilled afternoon, that,
insignificant as it may seem, yet within- it there ae
energies that now lie sleeping which shall one day
awaken into Power, Beauty and most surpassing Glory.
Hell is its experience of the unfit, improper and untrte;
but its wings.are too powerful not to lift it, in triumph
above the flames and the deepest pit of all. Earthly
virtues are the offspring of contrast ; vice consists in
bad calculation, and both will prove in the great ear-
off to have been but the disciplines ordained to fit it
for the business of Good and Use on the other side
the curtain ;--and I clap my poor weak hands in glad-
ness !. Who with true heart can help it ?
-Man is si )remely greater than, not only law, that he
has found it convenient to violate or conform to; but to
any and all that it is possible for him now to con-
ceive of or imagine; because, in the order of the great
Unveiling, he wil discover and come under the action-
of new ones, as the Night of Time moves toward the
Dawn.
Those who go about' in the exercise of benevolent
offices are not always the most virtuous ; nor are they
who heal the sick and give of their abundance to the
needy ; for all these things are often done for fashion's
sake. But the man or woman who ever acts up to the
highest conviction of .Right and Duty, even though
rack-threatened, is the most virtuous ; because in so
doing the great design of Godrwhich is individualize.
tion, and of intensification of character, is all the
sooner carried out.
Human beirngs, male and, female, talk much of virtue,
which means strength, and loudly boast its possession;
yet how:very few there are who will stand up and face


210         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
the 'music which tiiir very talk may have evoked ?
How they shrink when the storm comes down; how
they cower when' bitter denunciation and abuse pours
in upon them from the ramparts of the world ! All
hal the glad and coming day, when we shall be what
we ought! When he who wears the garb shall in very
deed prove himself A MAN, the most glorious title on
earth save one, and that one is-woman !
Once in a while we are greeted by the magnificent
spectacle of a female who dares to stand up and prac-
tically vindicate her escutcheon, not in loud talk and
"strong-minded" diatribes against what exists, but in
her daily-lived truth, and t'he practical knowledge of
those tender virtues which-so endear all true women to
all true men. . And whenever such a woman crosses my
path, I rejoice ; I rejoice in the presence of such a fact,
and fold her as a sister folds another to her soul.
People are false to the light within them. It is a
great thing to be ,true to self-to stand forth the cham-
pion of your noblest thought, when all fingers point at
you with scorn, all heels are upraised to crush the sweet
life out of you, and when only God and your own stout
heart are on your side. To do this,-and, thank
Heaven ! some there be who dare it,-is to be more
than human: is to be divine ; and this heart-wrought
divinity allies us. to the immortal gods. This it is that
I call virtue.

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.       21

As previously stated, it was not possible for me to
understand the nature of the mysterious power ,ly
which, in company of the peerless being, 'hotmor, I
volitionless clove the ambient air. "0, it was a pro-
jection of your soul," says the modern novitiate.of the
mystic school. Not so, friend ; for the Ego. then and
- there ascending, under the influence of a power similar
in kind, but immensely superior in volume and-display
to itself, was not a mere psychical phasma-a thing of
appearance only, and possessing no substantiality of its
own ; it was no flimsy projection from the fancy-fa-
culty ; was not a meaningless substance-void image of
myself. It was no mere subjective state objectified,
but was indeed my very self, wearing the body of im-
mortality for a time, during which certain lessons must
be and were learned, fully and practically, demon
stratively and perfectly, so far as the lessons went.
The man himself, and not his mere shadow or ghost was
there, in proper form and essence, to the end, no doubt,
that the mysteries there learned might be given, as
they now practically are, to the world of thinkers.
As I, or rather we, ascended toward the zenith; it be-
gan to rain ; but this did not incommode us, nor in any
way hinder the ascent, which was continued until it be-
came necessary to penetrate a dense region of thick,
black convolving cloud that was now rolling up in vast
and heavy masses from °the northern verge of the im-
mense horizon, driven by the fierce breath of a mighty
blast. Looking earthward, it seemed as if the deep
black night was suddenly going down the wind howled


212        DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

DEALINGS WITH -THE DEAD.     213

through- the buildings, and the trees shook, as if with
mortal fright and terror ; the sorrowing clouds shed
great drops of tears, as if mourning in comfortless grief
over poor human frailty, while the soughing and the
sighing of the sea was a fitting sympathium to their for-
lornness and despair.
Thicker rolled the dense black pall over the face of
the vaulted heaven, hiding all its glories, and shrouding
it in the very folds of gloom, whose density was only
relieved when the broad glare of the lightnings rushed
out upon the sky. The sheets of flame were of various
colors-violet, green, white, red and purple. The three
former appeared to issue from the earth's surface ; the
others, from the space above and immediately around
- us. There were occasionally lines of purely white fire,
and these took the form of chains, every link of which
carried ten thousand deaths along with it. These came
singly ; and sometimes two separate lines of fire would
leap out from the bosom of the clouds simultaneously,
but from opposite quarters of the gloom-in which case
they appeared to meet in anger, like as if two angry
gods were warring with each other, and their junction
was instantaneously followed by the most terrific bursts
of thunder that ever fell on human hearing since the
mighty worlds were made.
I shook with mortal terror ; and this terror increased K
and intensified into positive, almost unendurable agony,
as crash after crash of horrible roaring, rolling, burst-
ing god-cannonry swept down the vast concave, drown-
ing the clangor of the mad winds, which were rushing
and rumbling through the spaces, striving desperately
to rival and surpass the awful voice of the electric god
himself. I felt that I was lost ; and in that moment of

anguish, from the deeps of my soul there went forth a
prayer to Him whose presence and majesty was then
recognized, with heart bowed down, and with a fervency
never realized before. I feared to be swept into no-
thingness by the tempestuous breath of heaven ; I feared
to be hurled into destruction by the driving blast! But
no ; for seemingly the wind passed through me, just as
the electric current passes through human or any' other
material bodies, and touched me not destroyingly. The
fiercest wind that ever raged can never blow a shadow
from its place, neither can it in any way blow -away a
spirit ! for the reason, amongst others, that spirit is not
matter, any more than is a shadow or a sound substan-
tial, as this last word is generally defined ; hence wind,
which is a material substance, can in no wise touch it.
And so I was not blown avay before the driving gale.
"But suppose a column of wind, just three yards
square, and moving at the rate of two hundred miles an
hour, sweeps toward the very spot on which a human
spirit 'stands, or is ; it cannot turn this wind aside
How, then, could anything remain unmoved ?" This is
the question ; now the answer comes. A bar or column
of sunshine streams through the air, and its volume is'
just three yards square. It will require something far
different, and much more powerful than a column of air,
moving at the rate of two hundred miles an hour, to
blow away that sunshine, or to drive a hole through it;
yet the sunshine would still be there, and so would the
windI This is my answer to that objection. I lifted
up my soul in unspeakable thankfulness and adoration,
as I realized that spirit was superior to matter, even in
its most subtle and rarified forms-superior even to the
glaring, seething, melting, white fire of the clouds, when


214       DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

the lightning furnaces overflow with fervent heat !
Safely, slowly, majestically and holily we passed
through this terrible battle-ground of the elements ; and
to a question internally framed and put,' this answer
was given by the illustrious being at my side:
"That you might practically realize the indestructi-
ble nature of the human being; that something of hu-
man majesty might appear to your understanding ; that
you might be shown somewhat of the dignity of being,
and the royalty of things, elements, laws and principles,
hast thou been_ by me brought hither. This is merely
a first lesson-the mere Alpha of knowledge ; but others
far more important are yet to follow. Fear not V"
But this last injunction it was utterly impossible for
me-and would have been for any human being under
similar or analogous cireumstances-to obey or do ;
for what with the dizzy sense of height, the sensations
attendant upon the movement through space, the glare
of the ~lightning, the elemental strife, the perfect ob-
scuration of my dwelling place (the earth), together
with an indefinable. dread of a something impending,
and which I might never be able to comprehend ; this,
'all this, had the effect of almost palsying every faculty
of being, and blanched my very soul with fear; for the
rush and crush, the horrible din of the tempest, and the
thunder, made terror my constant associate. It was as
if the trial hour had come ; it was like the breaking up
of mighty mountains ; it was as if a hungry earthquake
were feeding on a world ! Instinctively I looked to
Thotmor for protection. He smiled at my weakness,
and bade me remember that a greater than himself was
present. Yes, I realized then that God was there, and
I was safe ; for He smiled between His frowns, and

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.          215
whispered " I AM HERE !"  *   *   *  *   In other
days, when I gave my soul and body up to the guidance
and control of invisible beings, whom I did not know,
whom I did not stop to prove and identify-apocryphal
persons, at the best-persons disembodied, if indeed
they ,ever wore clay upon this footstool-beings who
seek their own amusement at the expense of human
dupes-beings who take supreme pleasure and delight
in the exhibition of human weakness-beings who
silently, but surely, infuse the most deadly and destruc-
tive venom, in the shape of philosophic assurances-
beings who mock at our calamity and laugh when our
troubles come, both of which they themselves bring to
pass-beings who persuade people to believe in all sorts
of inanities, dictate senseless platitudes, and encourage
persons to believe themselves philosophers when they
are only-fools ! I repeat, when in other days I yielded
to this evil influence-in other days, when both God
and Thotmor were practically ignored aiid forgotten-
in other days, when the pride and power of Eloquence
turned me from the USEFUL-an eloquence weird and
almost magic, that welled up through my soul and went
forth from eye, and tongue, and.pen, and drew my soul
from God,-there came occasional twinges of regret,
and an assurance that, in forgetting to profit by the
teachings of that afternoon, I had bartered off priceless
joys for the empty bauble 'worldly fame and ephemeral
glory '-that for the hollow music of man's praises and a
few claps of the hand, I had given up the Key to the
magnificent Temple, one of whose apartments I that
afternoon entered for the first time. Great God ! how
I have suffered for that- foolish estrayal-that fearful
lege majesta-that silly vanity and supreme folly !


216        DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

We rose above the fierce turmoil, and for the first
time a fair opportunity was presented for a loser scru-
tiny of my guide. As I drew nearer to him, he said-
not in words, but in the silent language used by the
higher citizens of the Republic of Souls-" All thoughts
have shape : some are sharp, acute and angular, many-
pointed, and exceedingly rough. These cut and bore
their way through the worlds ; others are flat aad disk-
like :'these are thoughts that must be incarnated in
matter ere they become useful; their mission is to be
SEEN ; others to befelt. Some thoughts are light and
fantastic, like bubbles on the sea ; they are beautiful
while the sun shines, but the very ray that reveals their
beauty also seals their doom-for the heat kills them ;
they burst, and forever disappear, being hollow and of
but little substance : other thoughts are round, heavy,
and solid °as a cannon-ball, and like them, too, their
mission is to batter down the mounds erected by un-
wise men. Words are but the garments of thought.
Geometry is the Soul of all Sciences-order, symmetry,'
and form! Everything, line, point, shape, angle and
figure, corresponds to something in both the Spirit and
the Soul-world (the outward and inward Soul-life), and
are, independent of magnitude, absolute and arbitrary
symbols, embodying an absolute and fixed principle:
and every line, dot, point, shape or angle has a fixed
definition in the lexicon of the Starry Heavens.* All
pure and good thoughts, being themselves full of sym-
* What a stupendous revelation is here ! What an astounding idea 1
For, if this statement be founded in truth, of which there can be but
little if any doubt, what ages must elapse ere we be fully able to read
the myriad volumes of God's great library-the boundless Universe of
form, color, and sound.-PuB.

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.          217
metry and beauty, can only be outwardly conveyed or
expressed ; if by the voice, by harmony, music and ryth-
mical speech and sound ; if by the pen or type, only in
characters themselves geometrically perfect, and harmo-
niously so.
"Now," said Thotmor, " you have seen much--heard
much. I have just given you a key, and to prove your
proficiency in learning, I propound a question. It is
this : What thinkest thou of Nature ?"
Now I, to whom this was addressed, could not pre-
cisely comprehend what he meant by 'Nature;' but
naturally supposed that reference was had to the ele-
mental disturbances and the fearful exhibition of mate-
rial energy we were witnessing, and which was at that
moment unabated in the least ; for the storm still raged
with as much fury as ever-not over the same portion
of the earth, it is true, but in its own track, as it moved
on its southward march. I, therefore, answered in the
same silent language, "that, in view of all that had just
been witnessed, it was evident that an overruling power
existed, ever wakeful, ever on the watch ; that His
power was exercised for the greatest good of all the
creatures of his love.; and that God worked mysteri-
ously through nature, expressly to effect the good of
human kind." To this general answer he responded:
"Right : but what think you of Nature ?"
Here was a repetition of the identical question al-
ready propounded. It caused me to ponder a little
more deeply, and after a while, thinking that this time
he was perfectly understood, I replied : "It seems to
me that what we call 'Nature' is simply God in action;
and that God in the sublimer sense is Deity in repose."
"Apt learner," said he, "right again. But wht
10


218.

*

DEALINGS WITH. THE DEAD.

thinkest thou. of Nature ?" Now here was the same
interrogation a third time repeated. I now determined
to study well ere venturing to. reply. This I did, ARli
the while upborne on the air by a force whose nature
was not easily understood, but which I inwardly resolved
to. igyestigate and explore. The resolution was, as will
bp.hereafter seen, most faithfully kept, with results
highly gratifying and. satisfactory, which will, be, pr&amp;e
sented in the sequel. to, this volume. -
While delving in the mines of my soul for a proper
aywer,,I took' notice. that we gently floated off and
upward, at an angle of fifty-one degrees with the. hor-
izo'. 'The storm: was going in. one direction, and we
in.the other; so that in a. little time we. were entirely
beyond its influence, as was. also that portion of the
eath over which it first began. to rage. There was no
standard by which the rate of our velocity could be
msgsuged ; but it must have been prodigious,.judging
by. the rapidity with which the. mountains, rivers and
citie. of the, earth seemingly swept by us-for indeed.
/ there was at this point of the experience but very little,
if any, sense of motion,-no cutting of the air,-no
hiding as we passed through it ; but it seemed as if we
were in, the center of a large transparent globe, or
sphoer;; which: itself moved on as if impelled by a force
entirely superior to that which governs. rude matter.
The earth itself, from, the elevation we were at, seemed
to have. lost its. general convex shape, and now looked
as if it. were a huge basin, so, singularly did' it appear
tocqcaye itself. Instinctively I realized that this was
the appearance it would naturally assume to a person.
Who:.looked: upon it through bodily eyes from the great
height atwhich we now were ; but it was not, so easy

DEALINGS WITE THE; D AD.

to understand, whasp-i
unimpded, hyh  spirit whose sense of sight was
unipeedby pysiologicaltorgavet or, cond~tiou
spirit to whom the electric atmosphere,r hc.diesoe--a
bosomed in the outer air--Pte, hich lieservedas-the e  of ocar
knowledge, should behold it in  the m e y.
But while studying the answer to thefistprobl;
the solution of the secondscame to me and Irsawblhat
the similarity of phenomena, viewed from    sit
states, was attributable solely to the' former habitues
of my mind, and to .the association of ideasa bd
Thotmor saw my embarrassment, and t
on the' subject to which I had arrived  "Rightions
said he- "But,"--ere another moment el
plied : "I think that Nature i     y   e  o  aie
forces, everradiating'from God as beam  o  ati-.
that they go. out, and, as constantly return to the pt
whence, they emanated."  "Paradoxt: Expin   poi t
mean. that"-ogha here- a sudden thought struck mean I
said to the' guide, "You have not dealt. fairlyebynde
your are not Thotmor, an Egyptian: f the ely cen
triess: o 'the contrary; I am convincedi thatea e
disguised yourself, and for certain reasons. and purposes
of your own. assumed another name. You ar    i, fel
perfectly convinced, that you must' be rooratas th
philosophy  come- back for a time to pursue the old
and honorable avoatine,--the teaching: and. enlight
meant ofthe ignorant; for'-Socrates alone; of all eah
great children of' yore; was. the  w one who tauht
asking questions. of such as soughtknowldgean  iy-
dom, where hersat,*dispense them. Ain±sInot right?",
The rarebeingganedtederlydow. into myysa
his conntenance-glowed witharadiancequiteglr
and. diiinej, a&amp; hereplied.: Yes...  Lam-

2 1 !J


220

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

and not Thotmor ; and still am Thotmor and not So-
crates. Here is another enigma. Do you comprehend?
Tiy ; for remember the human soul is infinite in its
nature ! Its capacities are boundless. You aspire to
comprehend the mighty secret of the TRINE. You
seek to become an acolyte of the imperial order of the
Rosy Cross, and to re-establish it upon the earth ; and
no TRUE RoSICRUCIAN dares shrink from attempting
the .solution of the mysteries and problems that human
minds in heaven or on earth may conceive or propound.
Our motto-the motto of the great order of which I
was a brother on the earth,-an order which has, under
a variety of names, existed since the very dawn of civil-
ization on the earth-is 'TRY."n
Again the same method ; again this strange weird
being not only provokes to mental exertion, but reveals
a clue to millions of profound and priceless secrets!t
He is then the great Ramus, the imperial lord of an
imperial order,-that great and mystic brotherhood at
whose power kings and potentates have trembled most
abjectly. And this lordly being condesce-ds to teach
a few of the mysteries of Being to my humble-self, and
through me to the world. How wonderfully! How my
soul rejoices I Verily, from this day forth I will en-
deavor to prove worthy of the kingly favor.'
This was my resolve ; how it was afterward forgotten
has already been stated. Men ever neglect and forget
their best friends'! But even this forgetfulness, so I have
been told, was foreseen ; it was known long years ago
that the painful career since accomplished, was the
decree of a power above my feebleness, and, it was
known that all the terrible sufferings,- trials, tempta-
tions and repentances were to be instruments toward

0

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

221

high and noble ends, not yet wholly, but to be wrought
out in His own good time, who doeth all things well.
And now, on this tenth day of February, eighteen
hundred and sixty-one, as I look back over the ruins of
the dead months, I resolve in my soul to TRY-and, as
near as may be, to approach the standard of goodness
and use: for these are the ends sought to be attained
by the Order.
To resume : In reply, I said: "Yes, you are, this
time, fully understood ; you are Thotmor, but adopt
the methods of Socrates, because' they are best calcu-
lated for the purposes of teaching ; and these methods
are"-" Wisdom's,-and were applied practically by the
great teacher," said he, interrupting the sentence, and'
completing it for me, but not quite as I had intended.
"Now, scholar, answer the first question, and tell me
what you think of Nature ?"
" I think that Nature is an emanation from the Glo-
rified Person of Deity ! Tell me, truly, is God a per-
son ?"
s " As certainly and truly as that you are an individual,
just so certain and truly 'Is God an 'absolute Being--
not a mere king--who, seated on the Throne of thrones,
watches the procession of the worlds ; but the INF-
FABLE ONE is a working God, who pursues His march
across the vast Eternities, reducing Chaos as He goes,
and leaving a train of luminous worlds behind him.
You shall know. more of this hereafter. Go on : tell
me what you think of Nature 1"
"The principles, I think, are, radiations from Jeho-
vah ; the purpose and design of this irradiation must
be to perfect the universal organism ; by a commingling
of forces and elements, by mutual and diverse action and


I

222

DlEAINGS WITH TII DEADl.

counter actionn,, the end sought is doubtless attained ;
and it is:through the same agencies that He reduces to
Order, Law, and Symmetry the     "'-"
I mold go no efurther,;for the reason that imy concep-
tion and descriptive power had run. against the wall.
He saw and pitied, while he completed the sentence
for me :
-   " Nebulous Systems, which lie beyond :the pale of
the inhabited and waking Universe of Forms."
Whoever reads these pages, and clearly comprehends
the meaning of his last fifteen words, can but agree
that here was:a stretch of thought amazing,:and abso-
lutely awful to even contemplate. They distinctly im-
ply that God is still making worlds-worlds hereafter
to be peopled with glowing forms of a life, intellect,
and beauty, that shall put to the blush the highest ideal
of the loftiest Seraph, now in being, when the present
Universe shall have died of hoary age.
Yes; Thotmor's thought is a vast and :mighty one.
Do you not-think so, my reader ? Try to compass and
master this idea,-rso terrifically great and sublime, and
you will forthwith coincide with me.
What becomes of many of the ordinary conceptions
of4pod's character now extant .among even the philoso-
phers-eonceptions so unjust, puerile, and even con-
temptible, as uany of them.are ; what becomes of them
all, in the presence of the estimate. of the great Crea-
tive Energy just conveyed to your brain ?' They fall
and sink into utter nothingness, while this one looms
up before our mind's eye in proportions majestic and
grand. We catch an intuitive glimpse of its outlines-
its edges.; but the whole thought is too great for our
puny brains to contain. Try to master it, and ere

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

.223

long 'your soul, like mine, will fold its wings in pres-
ence of its majesty.
--  " The Principles and First Elemerits, after per-
forming one round of duty, return to the Fountain
Head, become newly charged with portions of his
essence, refilled with the Deifie energy, and then go
forth again to complete and finish what, under a Iess
perfect 'form, they have before commenced ; for all prin-
ciples and elements are at bottom only 'one-but one
which acts 'under a thousand different forms :-a1 'ci-
ence is based on Music, or Harmony ; Harmohy is but
Geometry and Algebra-these are but Mathitatics ;
this is but one branch of Celestial mechanics, which
-in turn is only Number-but number in action f' said
the august presence at my side, as he completed the
magnificent lesson-a lesson so full, "o pregnant With
meaning, that my reader will not soon exhaust its treas-
ures, even though he most persistently may "'nt.e'
Still benignly gazing on me, Thotmor -said: "What
thickest thou of Nature ?"
Great God! that identical question a fourth time !
How is it possible to answer it? I felt that,clear as my
intellect now was, it would be sheerly impossible to
proceed one single step further in definition, and Was
about to abandon the attempt, when a voice, swoeter
than the dulcet melody of love, softer than the sounds
to which dreaming infants listen, more persuasive than
the lip of beauty, whispered : "7dry!/ the Sul groweth
tall and comely, and waxeth powerful and strong only
as it puttethforth its Will ! Mankind are of seven great
orders : the last and greatest are the Genii of the Earth,
the Children of the Star-beam, the Inheritors of the Tern-
ple.  Weak ones can never enter its vestibules; but only


4

224

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

those who Try, and trying for a time, at length become
victors and enter in. Man fails because of feeble, sleep-
ing, idle Will-succeeds, because he wakes it up and ever
keeps it wakeful!I"
In an instant I turned to find whence these spoken
words proceeded ; and a sight- of ..rare, surpassing
beauty, such as ravished every sense of -my inner being,
fell upon my gaze. A female of regal aspect floated on
beside the form of Thotmor ; her radiant mien, beauty
Qf form, loveliness of expression, and the grace of her
every movement, were such that the language we apply
to embodied woman can never convey an adequate idea
of the peerless Queen before me. It was from her lips
that the spoken words had come.
As I gazed inl utter bewilderment upon the houri,
Thotmor smiled, and said.:
"This is Cynthia, whose sun-I am ; my moon she is:
she is mine-I am hers-WE ARE ONE! On earth her
body sleeps ; here her soul is awake, and tuned to the
melodies of Heaven. We are working for the World,
and in that work find pleasure and excellent joy ; but
we only reached the bliss by Trying. Do thou the
same, and tell thy earthly brothers to do likewise 1"
Thus recalled to mental effort, I strove to conquer
my admiration for the woman, and address myself to
thought ; albeit the task was very difficult.
We are human beings still, whether in or out of the
body ; and the same surmises, guesses and yonderments
possess us, wheresoever we are. Thus, I could hardly
help envying the Egyptian his glorious prize, nor won-
dering if he did not see much trouble and come to deep
grief on her account. Certain it is, that no man on
earth could rest quiet with such a treasure of beauty

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD,      '29
under hip care; and it struck ie that, even in the Soul-
world, all people could not be free from all the human
passions, as we know them here below ; and that jeal-
ousy might disturb the Oriental's peace of mind, I could
scarcely doubt.
He saw my ruiind ; and, turning to the full moon of
beauty who clung to his side, said to her, " Answer for
me !" She did so, and said : "urity is the soul of
Beauty, Symmetry is its spirit, and Justice is its body.'
Every human being, in the Soul-worlds or elsewhere,
loves nothing so well as to be well thought of by all
other humaui beings. Ambition, Emulation, and Per-
sonal Joy are the three bars, which constitute'the pivot
of all human character. The bad passions, as envy,
strife, anger, last, and revenge, on earth, not only de-
stroy the body, but also mar the spirit. Every one of
these, and all other evil things, thoughts or deeds, in-
evitably leave their marks upon the soul, and deep, sad
marks they are.
" The law of Truth, the law of Individuality, and the
law of .Distinctness, (by means of which the man is
rounded out into a perfect character, and is afterwards
kept for all eternity totally distinct from any other
being in all the universe), reign in the Soul-world ; nor
can they ever be broken or evaded ;-consequently,
there can be no mistakes in regard to Identity. *Cyu-
thia is Cynthia, Thotmor is Thotmor, Clarinda is Cla-
rinda, and John is John-and all must remain so till
the end of the Ages. It is so now, whatever it may have
been in the ages wherein the angels fell.
" On earth, the real thoughts and sentiments of a soul
are hidden beneath the garniture of language and as-
sumption ;-not so here in the Soul-world, where every

i


226         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
one must appear to be what he really is at the moment.
There are no disguises ; and while any one can do
wrongly, if they so elect, yet they cannot intend wrong
and pretend right, for the presence of an evil thought
in the soul, is immediately marked upon its surface--
upon its features, by a law of that very soul itself ; and
these marks and distortions are so very plains and un-
mistakable, that all Heaven can read them at a glance ;
and such instantly gravitate to the Middle State.
"Self-preservation, therefore, and self-respect keep
Heaven clear of sin !
"In the second place, it is well known here, as it
ought to be on earth, that the deceiver is, in all cases,
the deceived; the wrong-doer wrongs himself more than
any one else ; and the unhappiness a person may cause
another to feel, must be expiated by the causer, not by
the victim! This is a safeguard against jealousy here.
No one will do an ill deed if he is aware that it cannot
be kept secret, even for a moment.
" In the next place, I chose Thotmor, and he me, be-
cause of all the inhabitants of this starry land, he suited
me the best, and I him ; wherefore, there is a stronger
attachment between us than there possibly could be be-
tween either and any other individual in the great Do-
main. All Heaven knows this fact also: hence, no one
in Heaven would attempt to sunder a natural tie, be-
cause they are well aware, that, even if that were pos-
sible, misery, and not contentment, must be the inevita-
ble result. Wherefore none in Heaven would attempt
such a thing, and no one from other regions could essay
it."
Like drops of water on the sands of Sahara, her
blessed words sunk into my soul: the Wisdom-cham-

DEALINGS WITH THE 'DEA           227
bers received a ne w family of ideas ; and my soul
felt exceeding glad of this instalment of the treasures
of the upper worlds.
For a moment, I remained pensive and silent ; and
then, inspired by the ineffable presence of Thotmor and
his Cynthia, who floated on beside him  -his pearly arm
engirdliirfg her glorious form in an embrace, which spoke
of something higher and holier t'n we mortals call
love-I answered : " It now seem  to me that Nature
is the birth-place of Affection, the tomb of all evil, the
primary school of human souls, the alembic of the Vir-
tues, the gymnasia of Thought, the "-
I was forced to stop again ; nor could I go on. Thot.
mor came to my relief, and added:
" A plane inclined, beginning at Instinct, and ending
in Omniscience; the telegraphic system of all Being,
connecting its remotest points ; the workshop of the
Infinite and Eternal God ;' the grand orchestra of'all
the Symphonies, and the ladder reaching from Non-
entity to the great Dome, beneath which sits in awful
majesty the Lawmaker of the Universe, the Great
I AM."
Tars book, which after all is but-prefatory to a vol-
ume on the general subject of the life beyond, which we "
are, ere long, to give to the world, would be incomplete
were we to neglect or omit to answer certain very preg.
nant questions, that must arise in the mind of the read-
er, as he or she proceeds in its perusal: accordingly,
this section, a short one, shall be devoted to that end.
As I rose in the air, and pag4ed over a sunny region,


228         DEALINGs WITfH THE DEAD.
which had not felt the effects of the terrific storm of thun-
der and rain, there came a feeling, that there was a vast
difference between my then present state, and that in
which the'aerial journey from the city in the East was
accomplished. In both eases, the altitude reached was
probably the same, or approximately so ; but in the first
flight I was not one-fiftieth part as conscious, or awake,
as during the second: there was also a difference in the
rapidity of motion.
The individual calling himself Thotmor, and concern-
ing whose reality I am perfectly convinced, now moved
through the air at but a slight elevation above me ;
wJhile formerly, I had not seen him at all, previous to
making his acquaintance near the house of the sleepy
student.
At one time, among my other miseries, there pos-
sessed me a very uncomfortable apprehension, lest, by
some mishap, my guide should be unable to sustain me,
and that I should fall. Now the reader will say, "That
was impossible; for a spirit, being lighter than air,
must necessarily ascend." Another one will say, "True,
so it must; but being so very much lighter than air,
what is to hinder it from going up with a rush-what
prevents it from going up vertically with the speed of a
rifle ball, seeing that the pressure of air must force it
upward with a power almost inconceivable? How is it
that a spirit gets to earth at all, seeing that light bodies
caznn? displace heavy ones; and how could a spirit move
off at an angle at all ?"
These, and a multitude of other questions were pre-
sent in my mind, along with many novel suggestions,
provoked by the peculiar circumstances in which the
narrator of the experiences was placed.

DEALINGS WJTI TIHE DEAt.       229

Let us try to make the matter clear, by remarking,
in the first place, that the prevailing sensation was such
as is experienced by those who go up 'into the great,
deep in balloons, during their novitiate in the business
of cloud-clidbing.
Among other questions that arose, and which I put
to myself, was this : "lDe I as -a spirit, forthe timie
being, actually ascend? Am I really here, on the breast
of earth's great cushion-the atmosphere ? or is all this
an experience of the soul-an episode of dream-life?
Am I really here, or is this, that so resembles me, only
an alter ego-a second self-the result of a pushing forth
of faculty? Is it a mere phantom, which my soul has
shaped, and sent forth, and then lodged its intelligence
in, for a time, by way of experiment and freak ? If so;
how is it done?
"In either case, the question is a grave one; for if it
be not myself, here in the air, but only a soul-created
phasma, of what sort of, materials is this appearance
made, and whence comes the wierd and mighty power
that can call these images into being, and endow them
with all the resemblance of reality ?"
These and similar queries suggested themselves to
me; and while the last one was still fresh in my mind,
I notidied that the earth beneath me was -smiling in
glad freshness ;--for the storm had not passed over that
part of the land, although even then and there it was
raining-a soft, gentle, sweet and sunshiny summer
rain, such as happens when the "Devil whips his wife "
--I beg pardon--used to whip her ; for, according to
modern philosophers, of the " Harmonial " order, he
has deceased these eleven years, and, of course, cannot
thus chastise her any more. Be that as it may, how-


230        DEALINGS WITH.!THE DEAD.

ever, it was raining; and here was an opportunity to
solve a much mooted point, namely : "Do spiritual
beings get wet "in a rain storm.? Do the rain-drops
and hail-stones pass through them, or do they bound off
as from a solid body ?" Most attentively did I make
the closest observations, in order to be able to solve
the question. I decided that the rain passed through us,
yet touched us not at all, as apparently did the wind.
Preferring to make every point as clear as possible, I
shall attempt to illustrate this one, even at the risk of
a little prolixity and repetition. The subject is an in-
teresting one, and demands it.
Now, everybody knows that nothing less dense than
water, %ave air, in violent motion, will turn aside or
shed it; and that which constitutes the spiritual body
is, of course, infinitely finer and more subtle than even
the rarest gas,. much less the thick and heavy atmo-
sphere surrounding this and all other globes.
This .fact being conceded, it follows that all such
bodies must be pervious; and they are so, and not so at
the same time. Remember that spirit is not soul ; for-
get not that the latter is the Winged Globe,,of which I
have spoken, and the former is a projection, an out-
creation from it. This out-projection or spirit is, of
course, perfectly atomless and unparticled. We gaze
into a mirror,,and behold a semblance of ourselves ;
and the same figure may be gazed at by a hundred thou-
sand eyes; everybody will at once acknowledge that
the likeness is perfect and real, yet every one knows
that not one single atom of any sort of matter enters
into its composition.
It cannot be handled, but everybody can see it ; nor
would a pistol ball, shot through the head of that

figure, harm it in the least .degree, because it is not
substance, although it is substantial. It is not a sha-
dow, for it is real,-which latter fact is proved daily by
those who first coax this image to enter a camera, and
no sooner does it get fairly in than the clever artist
impales it against a tablet of glass, or ivory, and lo!
everybody carries the chained image to his home for
everybody else to look at, who chooses so to do. This
is Photography.
Now      wind and rain, cold and heat, are as power-
less an ine cient to act upon a spirit as they are upon
the image i the camera, or a mirror. In other words,
the spiritual body is a projected image of the soul,--is
a sort of objectified subjective state ; or is a, fixed idea
-an out-creation.*
The image in the glass is not made np of parts,-it is
a unit,-an entity,-is homogeneous. " If so, how can.
it be scientifically true that the rain passes through it?
If it does so pass, it must make holes through it; and
if holes are made through it, then its homogeneity is at
an end for evermore."
This is a fair, as it certainly is the strongest object-
ion that can be urged against the position assumed.
But the answer, which forever sets it at rest, is this:
"Spirit is not matter."
The subject may be further illustrated, thus: Suppose
a large sheet of flame issuing, not from a jet, but from
the edge of a hollow disk, and that the rush of gas is
great enough to impel the sheet of flame six feet into the
air. Now, try to wet this flame ; it will take some time
before you succeed in the enterprise. .Take .a watering
* This sublime truth will be elaborated at length in the second
volume, of which this is the first.-Pub.

a

*1

DEALINGS WITH - THE DEAD.    31


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.      233

pot and sprinkle it to your heart's content; but, although
the drops of water will reach the ground through the
disk, and displace portions thereof, for an infinitesimal
space of time, yet they will neither wet nor touch it.
Every drop of water has an envelope of an electric
nature, doubtless; and that each particle of flame has
a corresponding one is self-evident. The respective
envelopes *nay come in contact with each other; but
their respective principles-never.
Now, the spirit is far more difficult to reach than
would be this flame. As'stated 'before, every perfect
thing is globular : the sun, within the brain, I have
called by its true name-a winged globe; the electric
moon, whose seat is in, on and about the solar plexus,"
is literally an electric moon, perfectly globular. The
human being, body, soul, spirit, is surrounded by an at-
mosphere of the same form, or nearly so ; and this
enveloping aura, this spirit-garb, protects its centre-
the man-from   injury or contact with other things
(unless, indeed, it be voluntarily broken down, or yields
to assaults from without by the abjectivity of the will).
True, a person may be injured magnetically through
this sphere, by pressure or malaria, although itself
remains unruptured and intact ; just as a pistol ball
will kill a man, without actually touching his flesh. If
he chance to be dressed in silk, it may drive its bulk
into his' flesh, yet not a particle of lead shall touch it.
I observed the aura or sphere which surrounded
myself and my two glorified companions. The rain-
drops passed through it, as.also through portions of ourt
respective persons, just as they wpuld through a sheet
of flame-lightning, but without actual contact or wet-
ting either. We have every reason to believe that, as

we ascend, the air grows colder, until at the height of
forty-five miles the cold must be in the neighborhood of
three thousand degrees below zero. Now, spirits fre-
quently pass through this--they'must pass through it to
reach us, yet they are unaffected thereby, for the reason
that they are superior to all material influences.
Moses, .Elias, the spiritual visitants of the Patriarchs,
of the man of Uz, he whom John saw,-and others, had
to come through this intense cold; and the fact that they
did. so proves that material forces have but little, if
6o y effect upon spirit. It therefore defies one extreme,
and consequently ought the other. It does so. For
the spirits seen walking about in the fiery furnace,
which was heated seven times hotter than its wort, for
the especial grilling of Messieurs Shadrach, Meshach
and Abednego, bade defiance to fire ;--a fatal fact
against the theory of a physical hell-the spirits proving
not only water, ice, and wind, butfire-proof also !
Continuing my scrutiny, I observed that never a drop
of rain fell upon the centre of the heads of either of the
aerial party : for just over the crown of every human
being in the body is a thick bone; out of the body, a mag-
netic shield, impenetrable by anything whatever ; for
every'drop of rain slides off it, as from an iron roof.
Place a spirit under a stream of falling water, and the
central globe would instantly condense to infinitesimal
proportions, so firmly embraced by 'its shield as to
resemble the original monad ; nor could water ever
come in contact with it, any more than the same water
could come in contact with a plate of iron at a white
heat, which every one liows is a physical impossibility,
I humbly trust that I have been understood.
In reply to "How can a-spirit reach earth at all, or

232        DEALINGS WITH TIM D.9AD.


234       DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

move 'through air at any angle up or down ?" I reply:
Electrically. It projects an image of itself to where it
would be ;-every man who thinks of a distant point
does the 'same, only that the 'thing cannot be seen with
earthly eyes. There is a magnetic railway between the
projection and the projector, along which this latter
moves.
Throw forth an image by glasses across the street.,
It will find no difficulty in reaching lhe spot whither
you send it. Analogous to this is the power of soul to
go whither it listeth, unimpeded, and of its own 'free
will.
The ultimatum of all philosophy is, 'to teach men how
to live ; to instruct them how to die; -establish a con-
viction of immortality ; and explain how this latter is,
and why, and to whither it shall lead. The sole busi-
ness of this book, and that which is to follow in due
season, is not to controvert any current system of phi-
losophy-Harmonial, Spiritualistic, or otherwise--'but to
present, not a mere theory or hypothesis on the subject
of an hereafter and. its sequences; but to give forth
what I know to be the truth, so far as that truth ex-
tends ; nor do I fail to be impressed with a deep assur-
ance that, although much herein given necessarily an-
tagonizes a few of the popular Spiritual theories, yet
I believe that that which I have now given concerning
the soul and its destiny, is perfectly true and correct.
I care not how much soever the reader may doubt the
aerial experiences herein narrated-for these are but
illustrative, at best, and 'in other respects are of little
account-yet the Theory I knowdo be the only true one
yet advanced; and it is to the principles wherein this

theory is founded, that I call the attention of the Think.
ing World, and challenge its respect.
Not a human being, whom I ever saw,:was fully satis-
fied with either Modern Spiritualism, or what is called
Harmonial Philosophy; for the more a man -bases his
hopes of a life hereafter upon either of them, the more
he stands on slippery ;ground. Doubt after doubt seizes
on the mind, until at Blast people turn away, sad-hearted
and 'desperate, from  so-called systems of Immortalism,
to take refuge in the church, which;erewhile they so
loudly berated and condemned-resort once again to
the Blessed Book, or else unhappily drift out upon the
shoreless, hopeless sea. of atheism. There are untold
multitudes who will gladly hail anything that promises
to remove the dreadful doubts concerning, not only
their continued&amp;existence, but their chances of bliss be-
yond the veil. To such this book and its fellow comes;
for the benefit of such they 'both are, and are to be sent
forth upon the world's great tide.
Thoroughly imbued with the spirit of the truths here
written-with the principles set forth and running like
a gold-vein through that portion which is descriptive
mainly-no one can help feeling strong in the certitude
of an' hereafter-this being the only attempt :ever yet
made in this country to treat of the soul per se, and in
its higher and deeper relations, so far as the writer is
aware.
Concerning the absolute -origin and final destiny of
the soul itself, the answer to the question, What is God,
and a few others of equal import, the reader must wait
for the second volume ; for, in the present, we have only
entered the outskirts of the illimitable 'course-have
scarcely touched the preface of the mighty volume,

DEALINGS WITS THE -DEAD.     235


236

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

SoUL. Herein we are only at the top of one of the less-
er hills, from which we catch a faint, very faint view,
and hear but the distant. throbbing pulses of the vast
ocean, on whose swelling bosom, and upborne by whose
wisdom-crested waves all men shall ere long sail.
As true lovers of our race, we ask all good people to
embark with us anon upon an intellectual voyage across
the Dee, in search of facts and truths far more stately
and sublime than those usually purporting to come from
super-mundane sources.
All truths are necessarily dogmatic ; nor has any
attempt herein been made to hinder their expression
from being the same.' Our.great Master and Exemplar
in virtue was dogmatic-why not his, followers be the
same ?
It seems essential, at this point, that the writer should
say something, not concerning the spiritual realms, but
of the man-spirit-the self-the developed and develop-
ing monad. Now, what is a monad ?   The reply is:
Something quite analogous to, but not exactly, the Leib-
nitziau 'Particle,' but that which is to universal spirit
precisely what an atom is to universal substance or
matter-with' this difference : you cannot cut an idea
into halves or pieces, for it is, was, and ever will be, a
unit ; so is a monad.
An atom of matter is divisible to infinity-a single
grain of sand being, by a mental process, capable of-
disintegration so great, that were each portion to be
separated from its fellow by only the millionth. of an
inch, yet the vast concave of the dome, the walls of the
sidereal heaven, the awful height and depths of space,
timdizzy steeps of the great Profound, would not afford
room to hold them all, even though the worlds were

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

237

rushed out of being for accommodation's sake. Yet-
not one of these portions would be spirit, because that
is indivisible ; they can never be. It is a philosophic
truth, as well as a scientific axiom, that "Matter is
divisible forever ; spirit is not."
Beasts have spirits, but not immortal ones ; for the
reason that they are the result of mere physical energy,
and natural elements acted on by natural forces: Their
mission is to serve certain uses, the greatest of Which is
that of affording, in some mysterious way, temporary
homes for higher beings, or rather for what is there-
after to become such-as already alluded to in the ar-
ticle on Transmigration.
Nothing material is endowed with perpetuity ; for
nothing particled can ever be so. True it is, that the
spirit of a beast is many degrees finer in texture, and
more sublimated than the luminiferous ether by which we
come in contact with colors ; but the soul of a man is
myriads of degrees more subtile in constitution than even
this essential part of animals. The last is particled, the
former homogeneous, sui generis, Deific in origin, pecu-
liar in nature, expansive in power, infinite in capacity
of acquirement, and probably eternal in duration.
Comparisons are useful: Suppose, then, that the sacred
rite is to be celebrated that shall call a neg soul into
outer being. Well, at the moment of orgasm, there
leaps forth from the very heart of the winged globe a
monad; with the speed of light, it rushes down the
spinal column, supplied in its route with a nervo-mag-
netic garment-a voluntary contribution from every
particle of his physical being. It reaches theneighbor-
hood of the prostate gland, passes through it, during
which it receives additional envelopes, of a nature easily

4


238         DEALINGS WITH THE 1EAIL                                         W

understood   Its next leap is, to the- prepared ovum,
which it only reaches: aftertaking refuge in a hollow,
shell,attached to what is called the "head of;a sperma-
tozoa," which in: itself is= the half germ (the1ovum being
the other) of the physical. structure. ,
Imagine, if you please,. a monad just incarnated in
maxny folder Its colo is. a. pearly whitey approaching
the hue, of pure- fire:; its- bulk,. with. its investments
about one4enth that of thf head of a small pin ;; with-
out them,. about. so. much less: that probably a million
might float without contact in a single drop of water:.
Its envelopes are the- very incarnations. and condensa-.
tions of electricity and magnetism ; and so possess the.,
power of repelling. uncongenialities, and of attracting
whatever is essential to its. development, during and
subsequent to its temporary home at the gestative cen-
tre. The essences and life, of all that the parent may
eat and drink, or breathe-as. perfumes, odors, andF so
forth-rare gravitative to the precious point.; and so the,
monad unfolds, and its envelopes: grow;. the one des-
tine dto become, a living, active soul-the other the.
temple of flesh and blood,, in which it will, for three
score years and ten, more or less, exercise and improve',
its faculties; aid powers. Now, this, process- is exactly
analogous to% that whereby God Himself bings-humansi
into being  only that instead of having a female form'
to shield them (the monads) He=made use of matter in
other forms- worlds, and substantial things.; It is easy':
to see-how. thedfirst human being was; brought intoe:z
istenee, albeit the ful , statement thereof belongs:tone
othenv volume thaw. thei prenti-the fdt part ofh
preeab one mereygising sar.outline. thereoft
Mau'ai bedy isw of thov eai'thy earthy;;:it . serves; the

soul's purposes for a time, and whenit pan no longer do
so, we die because it is the nature of matter to, decay
and change; but soul being of God.,the Uoset     AZ,
the SAgncD, the How, the GRaT M5sTRY lives on
forever nd for evermore; and is all human. probability
unfoldscontinually and incessantly.
Could you procure: a microscopic view of a monad,
you would behold a perfect resemblance= of a human
being of infinitesimal proportions, standing at _full
length, but with closed eyes, in the midst of a surround-
ing and protecting sphere, formed of something a myriad
degrees more sublimated, than the rarest imponderable
known to science.*
Soul has two, methods of increase: irst,, it feeds on
notions, thoughts, sensations, ideas, emotions,, hopes,;
joys, fears and anticipations,based on that which is ex-
ternal of itself. The. -experiencess and discipline thus:
derived, constitute Progressions On, the other handy.it
creates, moulds,, and fashions things froia itself,, and by
the exercise, grows intuitive and strong,.   This is De-
velopment, or Unfolding.. Souls are all of the same
* "over the graves of the newly dea4, may, on dark nights, be seen
hoverig'the forms of those within them-strange, ghastly, ghostly
forms they are. the' exhalations of the decaying bedies-assume the
shape and, proportions of the-. living;being, an, caught the passers
Burn a rose, and then mix its asheswith water in a bowI;;set it
away in a still place, and in a few days a thin, glairy scum will rise
upon the surfaces and arrange itselfin eteea c formrof the orina
flower."-Reporto/ Aca' &amp;4, Paris,1l84
Theacoruspin utwana exgseaQto a trA g.lightilighiniaT
nifying power, will disclose tie perfect. outlines of an oak tree.. The
germ of all things contains the likeness of what hereiter they are-
destined to beromea a and solld h r  o    o a a

*

DEALINGS - WITH- THE,.. DES.   289:


240        DEALINGS WITH -THE DEAD.

genesis, but, like trees of the forest, there are vast dif-
ferences between them. Men often speak of "full souls,
big souls, weak souls, strong souls, lean and fat souls,"
and so on-thus leaping to a truth by a single bound
of intuition. For no greater truths exist than those
words convey. People grow weary by labor, that's
physical exhaustion ; and of pleasure, that's sen-
sational weariness ; and of thinking, hoping, cogitating
on a single subject, that's soul-tiredness--for all of
which rest is demanded, or rather a change of attention
and occupation.
, The body is a laboratory, wherein the most beautiful
and useful chemical labors are carried on ; and it ex-
tracts and distils the finest essences from all things it
manipulates. True it is, that a coarse man will only
extract physical energy from beef and wine ; but it is
also true that these things contain something far more
rare, and so subtle that it requires a stomach of finer
texture and more elevated order to extract the higher
essences, that go to inspire genius, develope poets, and
sustain philosophers in thinking.
Some persons manufacture bleaching salts and oil of
vitriol ; others compound the delicate odors which float
upon the air of palaces, and radiate from the garments
of refined women ; yet both are chemists. And so of
human bodies ; they feed on the essences of food, and
convert these essences into the most spiritual forms pos-
sible ; this last is duly laid away in numberless maga-
zines, or store-houses, which we call the " Nervous Gan-
glia." When these stores are distributed, the body
grows strong. When the supply is exhausted, we be-
come faint and weary, and finally fall asleep, whereupon
the soul-sun sets for a while (vide the case of the stu-

dent), withdraws from the brain, pastes down l  te-
brienters the solar plexus, changes teefiee   es
of 1oheiganglia into pure fire,;endows it withrr Vi"of
its ondivine life, sends a supply to everypoin here
the communications are notmcut off-by disease" "-d so
increases the=vigor life, and bulk. of the body
When this re u   Merative work is done       me-
times rests awhile, and remains shut out from  world
for hours; during which time our existence  egeta-
tive only, and "we are in a deathly sluiber "far as
outward consciousness is concerned. A t suc  ine's, the
soul is making itself familiar with the eleme  of that
lofty and tracendant knowledge which all go = human
beings are destined to fully acquire after dea  It is
talking with God, and God is in turn conversing  with
it. It is 'perusing its, volume of Reminiscencesid
these sometimes vaguely, dimly flash forth on the ou
ward memory, causing men to doubt the story that they
have not pre-existed. Sometimes it is intentlylistening
to the gloiiouwmelodies which.the serayhim sing, or'
drinking in the knowledge of archangels;Tfor it is in-
deed true that--
- 'Sometinies the aerial synod bends,'  2
And the mighty choir descends,
And the. brainsof men thenceforth
Teem with unaccustomed thoughts 7
The soul returns from the inner to the 'outer life, and,
in spite philosophy or reasoning to the contrary &amp; t
entrtaiuvague memories, indistinct yet halfjpositive
Sas  a  e f having been aforetime rin somether:place
r thaneathohellgr heaven nor cauifget rid ofthifs
'con ison because itiiree,        ' W a exiteed sow-
wHErE ELSE    We hawelived  nd. acted .parts before

11

_ 4

DEALINGS -WIT] THE DEAD.  _t          .

-  -    r
,s, l Y
d. ,


242.       DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

longgges ago, before this world was ushered into being
fromtefery vortex of the Sun of suns; we have lived
and rtverd   nd had a being in a strange aqd far-off
world
A Palm of mystery and wonder, memory-filled, sublime; .
Ni his world, or hell, heaven, space or time!I
And ! we sleep.    At other times, without arousing
the body; he soul cautiously re-ascends its daily throne,
takes ad   ntage of the physical quiescence and slum-
ber, and   ays many a fantastic trick with the mate-
rials in it smagazines,-all for its own amusement and
that of iti phantasmal comrades and lookers on, who
do not fail to gather round the bedside &amp;    join the
spectra  sport
Sonietimes it overhauls the sheets of memory, sport-
ively, racily, jocundly, mixes them all together, puts
incongruous events alongside of bitter remembrances ;
takes a character here, and one there, and forces theme
to perform  the most ridiculous and     absurd  dramas
imaginable; nor does imagination itself escape, for the
soul touches it, and forthwith it produces, like a fecund
mother, and the night-born offspring are forced to mingle
themselves in one indescribable medley, along with.
thin.gsof pure memory and, reminiscence, thus forming
an o    podrida without order, system, head, foot, be-
ginning or end.   We are dreaming 1*
* An objection may be urged here, to. the effect that animals
dream, as well as human beings, Dogs bark in their sleep, aid ma i
feat all the phenomena 6f dreaming. Has the dog, therefore, got agg
that pernoctates, goes abroad, and soforthi? To this I reply : It is by
no.teans certain that the sleep-barking of dogs and other beasts is
anythingmore or less than a merely physical, nervous agitation. I am
not sure that they really do have dreams. Still, on this point I am

At other times, having placed proper sentinel to
guard the body and telegraph to itself arpthee t ap-
peajance of danger, the royal soul, feeling its- bg born
nature demanding a supply not to be found          thin
itself always, leaves.for a while the scene of its. so'ourn,
and leaps upward to the starry vault, to hold.   verse
with the stars and their holy tenants : The    have
visions !
Again, it takes journeys over the earth      surface,
visits old, familiar, or new and unknown place  persons
and things: Then we are clairvoyant.
These are moods and phases of the soul's existence
and activities, but they are not the highest ,. for, at
still other tiines, it arrays itself in its most regd garb,
and, marshaled by an army itself has called into being,
solemnly marches forth to attend THE CoUNCIL OF m
Houns!--and here a holy awe steals over me, as this
trait and power of the soul is revealed. At such times
we PROPHECY and become familiar with events,persons,
principles, and things yet unborn in time and space ;-
we have receded behind the wall. of conscionsness, and
bathed for a time in the sea of mystery, everybillow
and wavelet of which constitutes\ 4 destiny. For that
all things that are yet to be, at'this moment exist as
monads and uncarnated thoughts in the Mind of Mits,
there cannot be a shadow of doubt     nether can there
open to conviction, and just as soon as any rell-breddog, not one.of
your mongrel hounds either, shall tell me ,what he dreamed, I will an
notune that highly interesting fact to the world; but until one shall
do so, I- shall insist upon the hypothesis, above set forth, that these
somnolent exhibitions are in some way connected withwhat I callthe
process of monadtgestation, and not to the: dreaming. of: the beast ae
such.

DEALINGS- WITH THE DE:9cD.   243

I


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

be oe that man has been, still is, and hereafter will be,
intro fitted to: this sacred labyrinth of knowledge,.
unde" ; ertain conditions yet unknown to us. And yet
man  .  free-acting being.
Bye~nd-bye the sleep is ended, and we return to
outer, ery-day life. The soul's magazines have been
stored fl of the needful energies, both for itself and
body;     .it can at will, and sometimes by the action
of a po   r lying- back of volition, send forth these
fiery ele  ts ,to warm up and invigorate the outer
self, as o asion may demand. Thus comes the blush
of love, tho inspiration of song, and acting, the fire and.
energy 'f speech and oratory, the flames of lust and
passion the brutal vigor of the-athlete anlpugilist, the
blazerff .anger, and the sudden and awful courage and
ferocity of those who, at other times, are poltroons and
errant cowards.
Of course, some people accumulate more of this fire
than others, and some are more sensitive to its action-
even when it is quiescent-than less fine organizations
possibly could be ; .and these very sensitive persons
will, from the effect this accumulated power has upon
them, tell you more of an individual's character from a
half hour's associatioir, than others could after a dozen
years of intimacy, for they come in almost direct rap-
port with the soul itself, with something of which the
"sphere" is charged ; whereas those who are not so
sensitive must base their verdict on what they see and
hear.-the others, on what they feel and know..
Thisfact is beginning to be well known ; but there is
a consideration arising out of it of vast importance. It
is this : Those who are most sensitive are the very ones
who absorb deepest of those energies. They draw it in

DEALINGS WITH THE, DEAD.          245
like sponges, and give it out the same, as may be 4ily
seen on the platforms whence "spiritual medium  ful-
minate their doctrines. There you will see a finensi-
tive, delicate woman speaking for hours in b es of
thunder, and with an energy sufficient to rac1y a far
stouter frame to pieces,-physically sustained  ",What
she draws from the audience, and returns lik '.vse,-
with something added from herself. Such p   ns, sit-
ting in " circles," either draw off the very lif 6f those
with whom they join hands or come in cont ,or else
themselves are sponged dry.* Now, one of t se sensi-
tives will so absorb the sphere of persons With whom,
they may chance to be, that they may be led to o many
a naughty thing, even against their own incations
and judgment ;-especially is this - true with rerence
to, the tender passion. ~Their conduct may be very+
reprehensible, their hearts be very pure. Of course:
this condition is a morbid one, and should be sternly
fought against and battled down.
The question is often asked, "Do. spirits eat ?"
Answer: In the Middle States, eating is a strong phan-
tasy; the inhabitants believe they eat. In the Soul-
world. stomachs are useless, as, well as the organs of
sex, but the soul absorbs nutriment spontaneously.
There is no waste!1
Having thus briefly replied to the objections likely to
be raised, I now resume the narrative at the point
where it was left incomplete. What further took place
will be found in the next section.
A the splendid sentences of Thotmor, recorded in
a previous section, fell upon the hearing of my soul, that
* For further light on this point see a book called "The Sexual
/ Question," by the writer of this work; and shortly to be published.


246         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
sou:involuntarily bowed itself in awe: and as the ex-
prepn, " the-workshop of the Eternal'God; the orches-
tra /the Symphonies, the ladder reaching from Nothing
to the freat Dome, beneath which sits in awful majesty,
the GVAT I A,'--reached my understanding, there
went 4 from the soul's deepest profound a desire to
know 4owhat, and where was this supreme Ruler of
the star  skies.
w Scarcely was this thought fairly formed, when a deep
slumber  ntly but rapidly stole over me. How long it
continued_'I know not, but when consciousness for a
moment turned 'again, I found myself brushing the
dust fro  my apparel, beneath the trees from which
my firs journey had commenced. This occupation
could; not have lasted more than a minute, when'I
stated off. -mechanically toward a deeper nook, and
more secluded spot among the trees and bushes, appa-
rently guided by instinct; or directed by a power above
myself. And I lay me down, as if wearied with undue
physical labor, and soon a gentle buzzing sound, like
unto that made by.myriad insects when the Day-God
hies him to his slumber, and all the great, big world is
still, lulled me into a sweet and soft repose. And a deep
sleep fell upon my eyelids ; and in that strange, mys-
terious rest, I experienced that which was not all a
dream.' I hasten to present the result of this last dis-
play of power.
LIGHTLY, as floats the atom on a sunbeam, swiftly as
the bird flies, gaily as a laughing child, a spiritual
form sailed stilly through the SPACE. Beneath it rolled

DEALINGS 'WITH TEE DEAD.    44

the globe, its black mountains, deep valleys, and -11 its
silvery seas ; above it twinkled the starry leld of
Heaven ; and afar off, on either hand, great sun&amp; looked
out to see the moving panoply.
And still the soul sped on; until,at last, it earthly
home was in the distance, and all around t  mighty
,Silence reigned. And still the so il swept on  Ld  No
dizziness, no faltering, from the awful sense :f height,
alarmed it; no fear beset its bounding, joyus, happy
heart. That soul was not my own, for they ason that
no man can possibly predicate ownership of  soul-the
thinking-principle-Mind'; for soul is hims. He can
speak of, and say, "-my body, limbs, faculties, ualities,"
and so forth, with correctness and propriety ;.or these
are his incidents, but soul is himself-that of wh h these
incidents obtain. They are, to coin a word, t  out-
sphering of the inner being: the soul was me.
In a little while, the question, " What, and why is
this ? and whither am I going ?" rose in my mind. A
silvery voice breathed silently into my spirit this re-
sponse:;" Whoso truly willeth to know, shall know, by rea
,son of the relationship between himself and'the other two
members of the great Eternal Trine, provided always
that tie wish is good, and its realization would-be pro-
ductive of Excellence and Use.
"No bad man can earnestly wish and will good, while
he is bad'; if.he does, his failure is certain: not sd'with
the good and lofty soul! It is always welcome to. the
banquet of knowledge ; nor is the gate of Wisdom ever
closed to it. The good man can solve all mysteries;
the good woman ,sound the depths of all Music, Love,
and Beauty. Thus the saying is--jiterally, perfectly,
absolutely true, which affirms that if ye ' Seek first the


248        DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

Kingdom of God and his righteousness, all things else
shall *-added unto you!'"
Theoice was that of the fair being, whom Thotmor
called .£s own. Previously intent upon observing the
rapid cl.nges about me, I did not, until that moment,
realize t t both these auroral spirits attended on this,
my third: ight.
" Broth ," continued the sweet being, "Forget not
the first leson  the second, thou art now receiving.n
For a little while, still pondering on what I had been
taught, and till moving forward and upward, I made
no mental response or observation. Soon recurred to
me, the p1ase used by the female teacher a little time
before :  'nd the two other -members of the .great
Eternal :rine."  I longed to know the meaning; and
at that instantt a clearness of perception, power of con-
ceptdn, and ability of comprehension, was given to me,
such as I never knew before. I asked mentally, how
this came about, and the answer came to my understand..
ing, through the channel of a cl6ar intuition, and shaped
itself in the following form, as nearly as words will
hold it.
"Theearth is coarse, yet imprisons the refined. It is
a dense, gross substance, a heavy rough body, but it has
a soul. The soul of the world is spirit. Every atom
of matter has a moving, living, active, spiritual centre. -
The matter enchains the spirit, and the spirit (the prin-
ciples of Beauty, Use, Goodness, Music, Odor, Tone,
Sound, Rhythm, Shape, Sympathy and Coherence, con-
stitute the World-soul or spirit)-and the spirit 'ever
struggles to free itself from its unwilling thraldom. It
can only do so by working up the material of its prison
house into forms of Excellence, Use, Beauty, SQund,

r

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

Tone, Shape and Rhythm.      When it does so, it capes
its jail, and goes back to God, whence it or       allyy
came, through the human organization, and oft      s less
perfect, in the form   of Odors, Music, Tone     Sound,
Beauty (flowers, forests, &amp;c.) Art, Color, and   eir cog-
nates.  A. rose is that success in its struggle, bich at-
tends that amount and phase of spirit, wtr      g out its
liberation, from  and through matter, by       ans of its
inherent self-the principles named.
There are two Realms: Matter, filled wit spirit, and
Spirit (above, beyond), free of material enembrance-
the great Spiritual Ocean, in which all the    orlds are
floating.*   The World-soul -is spirit, negative : the
great Ocean is spirit, positive.    In it float   rained
down from the Infinite, myriads of existences' the
form of Mo2Aps-each one a particle of soul giv off,
so to speak, from the great Eternal Brain.
These monads are not spirit negative, such as is con-
taned in and constitutes the soul of the world, of mat-
'ter in all its million forms of beasts, birds, reptiles, and
vegetation ; nor spirit positive, such as constitutes the
Sea whereon the worlds do float, and whose finer breath
is the sphere of disembodied souls ; but they are the
original soul-germs of immortal beings-they are the
sparks which fell, and fall from God himself-particles
of the Deifie brain, unique, sui generis, unparti led, ho-
* I realized this tremendous truth. The links of the chain are : Gra-
nite Rock, Water, ,Atmosphere, extending about one hundred and fifty
miles upward; Electrical Sea, above the air, one hundred miles ; Mag-
netic ocean, one hundred more; above that, each redove teing a
great as between the first two, the ocean of Eledtrime, one hundred
mIles (the figures are approximative only). Neta-aeocean of Magnet-
ime, then Ether, then Ethyld, and then- the great Ocean of Spirit posi-
tive. All the rest are ousio , asjt were, to ti, our world.
11*

249


e

250

'DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

mogen ous: old as -Deity, young as the new-born in-
fant; ways existed, ever will exist. They are Pha-
souls (by-souls,).or Monads.
I nowK ealized this strange truth : that the consciQus
soul thaconstituted me was now beyond, as it were, all
the circn }volving material. atmospheres surrounding
earth, a4.i that it was rapidly approaching the awful
and vast piritual Ocean. Presently it ceased .its.
flight, tur  l earthward,-and made the following dis-
covery: fir't, the SPIRITUAL pervaded the Ethylic Sea:
this, in turi the Etherial ; that, the Magnetimic; that,
in turn, Eltrimic ; that, the Magnetic ; that, the Elec-
tric ; and  at, in turn; the Earth Sphere, or 'O dylic'
emanati, which in turn pervades the atmospheric or
Oxygnc; so that man really breathes several, instead
of a igle atmosphere-the highest of which quickens
spirit, as thie lower does the body.
Turning the ,gaze outward, a fine, glorious, soft, sil-
very sea was seen spreading,, away in all directions ;
and the eye had no difficulty in traversing space, as on
earth it has, through the corporeal structure and the
several earth-airs. In this: clear expanse of Spirit floats
uncounted globular monads, infinite in number, infini-
tesimal in volume ; they are each enveloped in a fine
electric substance, which surrounds=them perfectly. The
spiritual waves bear them on its bosom to the earth ;
they, by a mysteriotis power, are drawn to the human
male brain, through the lungs-; they enter it, become
lodged, remain till ascertain physical work is completed,
and then descend and effect their mission through the
aid of the prostate gland. At certain times, they quit
this, pass into the uterus, enveloped in the prostatic

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

251

mulse ; are caught up-are carried to the womb, end-
the work of INCARNATIoN is' effected.
aere, in these aerial Kingdoms, beyond the d ain of
matter and the sphere of what we call Nature,  rNatu-
ral Law, which of course does not govern Spir it hav-
ing a mode of-its own, I found two sorts of  nads-
the one perfectly globular, which constitute  he germ
6f the man-the others ovoidal, which constitutes the
germ of the female. .There are always two together: in
couples they come from the Eternal God,'n couples
they return.
Placed in the uterus, these come in lovit relations
with a subtile spirit originally in the fem e monad,
-subsequently energized in the woman, conden d in the
'ova,' and there is a blending of elements--th  exter-
nal of the monad, and the internal of the ova ; an  om
this blending springs a third something, which isnehe
nucleus of the nervous body, so to' speak. This nucleus
robs all earthly things of their vital life-plants, flow-'
ers, food, drink, and so on-through the instrumental-
ity of all the bodily organs. This union produces an,
improvement in both ; together, they attract the great
spiritual substance or atmosphere pervading our air,
and then the child is quickened, and rises in the pelvis ;
the very instant that the first spark of this great spir-
itual atmosphere passes into the babe, the monad in-
creases in bulk, bursts its bonds or envelopes, passes
from the foetal lungs to its brain, locates in the pineal
gland, radiates through the corpus collossum, energizes
its body, and, lo! a soul hfas entered upon a new career.
* My business is withfacts here ; therefore, I shall briefly state what
I beheld,,and leave others to t1hoQde-satisfied, as I am, that I hlave
pbnetrated the GaiND SFonRT,

s

5

1


252         DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
As 4id before, the soul grows'-grows in two ways:
first, b development-unfolding and awakening ; sec-
ond, b required knowledge and experience. The lat-
ter is o nd .for the earth, the former is of and for the
soul itse  The.one .epends on circumstance and acci-
dent, thli other is above and beyond both; There may
never be  uch of the latter, but the- former will, must
go on to Inity. Both may go on to a great extent on
earth; one ertainly will in the Hereafter.
All these things I felt, I saw, and knew, as I floated
there on th" shores of the Spiritual Kingdoms.
Have yo ever beheld the golden rain of a rocket, on
a stillys ner night? You have ? Well, just so God
rains mo da from Himself ! Spirit is the emanation
from G's body! Monads are corruscations from His
Soul VaThese truths can never be demonstrated; all
s Wtfual truth is- real, ands demonstration is effective
ly in reference to fleeting appearances. The logical
aculty deals with what pertains to us on earth ; that
which pertains to the Spiritual, requires some higher
powerof the: soul. .It has it-in the Intuitions. The
logical faculty deals with Progress'; Intuition with De-
velopment-unfolding : organic the one--central-soul
the other.' Intuition will one day substantiate my dis-
coveries-when I am dead, and this writing is a cen-
tury old.
At present there is really no Spiritual Philosophy at
all-scarcely an approximation thereto: We have: not
even a spiritual nomenclature, and -it is exceedingly
difficult to convey spiritual fats or ideas in terms no-
toriously adapitd only to the expression. of transitory
earthly knowledge.
$wec1enborg's ideas are worth all others on the great

DEALINGS, WITH THE DEAD.         253
subject, yet he even must be read in Latin or erman,
to be correctly understood. The English is t  tongue
of commerce-has too much ring of the dollar uit-to
be used to express spiritual things. I shall  to con-
vey my experiences so as to be understood  yet how
can.I hope to be ?-hoe make the fact k   wn, that
one human sou is actually larger, deeper, water, than
this whole material globe ? -that:it has' sun, within
the cerebrum ; a moon, the solar plexus that its sun
rises (when we wake), and sets, retires to he vertebral
column,. sinks within the great ganglio  behind the
stomach, when we sleep ; that it has sta, the nerve-
villi ; planets, the ganglia ; it has a milky w , the great
nervous cord ; comets, and, in. short,' ever thing that
the outer world has, and much beside.. H   shall I
express these facts so as to be understood? for the
terms I use do not convey the -exact meaning.  ho
can understand that the soul has hills, mountains,'v
leys, and so -forth? Yet it hath all these things in a
higher and heavenly sense. Still; more difficult will it
be to prove or show that the Bible saying, that "the
kingdom of heaven is within" every one, is a literal
truth. The soul, per se, contains within itself the sum
total of a dozen universes, each differing from the other,
each one overlying' that beneath it; and just as fast as
the soul outgrows, unfolds from, or 'vastates' either of
these, new and higher ones become apparent, just as
there dwells an appreciation of the refined and beauties
ful in every coarse man or woman ; but, in order that
this esthetic sense shall comre out and be active, a cer-
tain discipline is essential, the result of which is a vas-
tation and throwing off of What impeded end obstructed
this beauty-sense. .This is the end and mission of edu-


254          DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
cation o discipline. Our principal life-for we lead
several Jtthe same time, is the life of Imagination..
We form, 'n fact create, by a mystic power not yet un-
derstood,  hole galleries of paintings, figures, adven-
tures and  ircumstances, 'houses in Spain,' 'castles-in
the air.'  these are our in-creations, because, while yet
in the bod hey loom up in the deep, distant depths of
the mind, a images more or less vague and shadowy.
They are as et within us, pictured, as they are, upon
the outer spaces of the soul, yet within the radius of
the spirit.
After death, these become the realities of our then
existence, a'e the spontaneous out-births or out-crea-
tions of ou souls, and in them we live, move, and have
our bei    happy, joyous, pleasant, provided our souls
are bea iful, calm, and serene; but if they be not so,
the d4se out-creations'are full of horrors-serpents,
soine things, reptiles and dead men's bones.
Few, very few clairvoyants have ever beheld the reali-
ties of the spiritual world. I know of but few, contem-
poraneous or historical, ,whom I believe to have ever
beheld the mysteries of the pther life. Amongst the
few, Behmen, Swedenborg, and Harris stand pre-emi-
nent. The others-some of them honest, doubtless, but.
often deluded-have beheld their own out-creations, or
the spiritual photographs on the sky-surfaces of things
and events pertaining to the earth.. Every out-creation
differs from all-others; hence arises the annoying dis-
crepancies and diverse accounts of the same things,
which we are constantly:receiving-as,'for ,instance,-the
spirit-land, the sun, moon, planets, and their occupants,.
as given by various-so-called modern seers. The mem-
ory of mazi is internal to himself while here, but after

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.           255
death it is, as it were, the furniture of the parlor Where-
in he lives on the other side of time ; and these jbleau-
vivants, or living pictures, when seen by clai oyants,
are passed off upon men as the revelation. of ealities,
when they are but the ephemera of existence - Spirits
tell us of their legs, lungs, bodies, lands, par ), and so
forth,-and of their gardens, houses, trees, ests, and
the- like. All this is very well, and are s  itual facts
to them, yet are but the out-creations of the+ human soul,
which really has no legs, arms, and so.forth, ecause the
soul is MIND, and can have no possible uefor. these
things; yet, for a long period, these ver  things are
realities to the spirit and to clairvoyants.
The fact is, good spirits do not appear o  -tenth as
often as imagined'; the majority of spiritua  appear-
*ances'-are but out-creations-subjective imageof the
seer, objectified-else are psychological project 11of
other minds-images impressed upon the susceptibh
person's brain.
The spiritual world, as it is generally mapped out to
us, appears but a few degrees in advance of this one,
on the same general plane, if we are to believe the tales
told us concerning it ; while the -fact is, that world' is
not like this in any respect. It is not a place, literally
speaking, but is a ecndition-a single one of thousands
that have been-of millionsfyet to be. Dream-life is a
good illustration of my"meaning. It is a condition of
the soul. In it, we have a life actual, real, absolute;
not in far-off regions, because we are still in our bed-
rooms; but in the midst of our own private domain,
our own out-creations, our personal universe,
The human soul, as said before, is a divine kaleides-
cope, which forever changes, yet never exhausts its ca-


256          DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.
.I. .
parity therfor change, or for appreciation for the bliss
thence  derived, or of trouble encountered. So we have
no need .f legs in the spirit-world, because our move-
ments ar not with reference to- space--we have done
with roa  and distances there-; but our changes are of
state or c ndition. Illustration: Anna is a beautiful
girl--pioi good, pure, excellent sits beside her lover
John-a p&amp; shed scoundrel in every sense. One bullet
kills both,, instantly. They die on the spot. Both
awake in t. other life-in the same room, yet are a
million mii apart, because their respective mental
states deter ne their relation to eachother there, albeit
other thing determine it here.
They i y never not only not meet again, but never
know au   t of each other, so vast is the real distance
(condin) between the twain. The spiritual world of
the will abound with forms of beauty, use, goodness:
'ti aof the other will abound with toads, swamps,
snakes, bugs and unseemly things.  Why ?-because
each is surrounded with his or her personal out-crea-
tions. Each conrnunicating back to earth, will tell
what each beholds; both will be true, yet both fail, to
give even the ghost of a real notion about the absolute
supernal world. Whatever we are, we see;- whatever
we w-ant, is there before us-we have, Thus we can
ascend in goodness, or sink away to 'the' very depths of
hell-both our own,however. * *  *-* And all these
things came to nie there, as I floated on a wave of the.
sea of knowledge.
Self-induced psycho-vision often passes as the product
of spirits. the line is yet to be drawn between the
Aseem   and the real in this respect. Spirits first are
monads-spiritual (psychal) atonis-God-existent 'from

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.          257
all past eternity : Secondly, they are awakened-beings,
self-existent to all future states-not times merely:
Thirdly, at physical birth they, as monads, cease to be ;
a' physical death a change as complete and gr  t as the
last occurs. And now they have passed thr ugh, and
across three eternities ; that of monads, mjter, and
spirit ; and fourthly, they remain in no condilon above
a century (which accounts for the fact th44t no well-
authenticated instance of intercourse with spirit over
a century dead, has yet been recordedl) ; lastly, they
ever pass onward, and each condition diffes from the
last, as does sleep from wakefulness. There are mil-
lions of these changes. It takes about a century to
graduate and gravitate from one condition-  another.
When we pass from this world, we take so  ; things
with us which we are obliged to unlearn there. ,Thus,
some want drink, others rest, fruit, land, houses, money,
and so forth ; some want children and desire to cohabit,
as on earth. All have just what they want ; only that
the children begotten there, are mere phasmas-just as
by a powerful effort we can create a beautiful puppy
dog, and hold it as 'an ideal before our eyes while here.
A crazy man's golden crown and throne, although to
us nothing but straw and bits of stone, are to him gold
and diamonds ; and flash forth the richest scintillations
of the most precious jewels. It is a state of the mind.
Millions of crazy people inhabit both worlds; whence
it follows that insanity is a disease of the mind, as well
as a result of organic and chemical change and dis-
turbance in the body.
It is hard to describe spiritual things in material
language. Amongst all the flood of ".Spiritual litera-
ture,'t I know of no single work that gives the faintest

r


DEALINGS WIT THE DEAD.

259

idea ofaspiritual actualities.*  All that ppasses current,
as sucp is far more ideal and material than spiritual,
and are ,eferable, as to their origin, to- excited ideality,
and -oth4 peculiar mental states, rather than to the
Superna vorld. Amidst the three million speeches a
year, del ered under professedspirit influence, it is my
deliberat$onviction, that not Aver ten in one thousand
has its soue in the pure Soul-realm, but many origin-
ate in the Iiddle-states of the spiritual world; very
many of th vivid and beautiful descriptions of spirit
life, scenery nd so forth, which so please us t'o hear, are
transcripts 00m the individuals' inner-self, or rather of
the out-cre tions thereof. Of course, these are true
to the individual, but to no one else : let it be once
remembered that the man is as immortal in the past,-as
he is n\w, and will be ; and that during that state (as
M1-OgA  or Pha-soul) of pre-carnate being, he had an expe-
rince as real to him then, as his present is to him now;
and we shall no longer marvel at genius, or at the stu-
pendous powers of the human mind. - During the sub-
lime experiences of my soul, which I am endeavor-
ing to recount, I became thoroughly satisfied, not as
the medium, not from spiritual teaching, but from soul-
observation, that man, like God, had no beginning, as
did matter as w~e know' it---aud that like Him, he will
never positively have an end ; albeit the modes of God,
and those of, man---for at bottom, they. are ONE, contin-
ually change conditions. This brings us to the ques-
tion, "What is God ?"  *  *   *  *  Up there,t upon
* If we except Swedenborg, and a fugitive lecture or two- by persons
not necessary to be named herein.
St Inow discovered that "up" was a conditioni of soul an spirit-
and that to both, time and space did not exist.

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

the, beautiful: ether, all was still and silent mi'c, yet
loving in Beauty, Order, and Form-which were out-
greations of one Eternal- Monad, self-cons 1us and
awful--shone a sun of ineffable glory and m  sty-the
Omnipotent God.
This sun shines in the heaven of spirit, 4st as the
eornparatively tiny and material suns ill y.nate the
material. universe. The spiritual does nt glide into
the material, but is from 'and above it, ju in the sense
that the meaning of a sentence is above f e sounds or
characters which convey it-and in no other  The grand
procession of material universes consntly sweeps
along the Eternities ; receive Light, Li  and Love
thence ; fructify ; incarnate the monad's B uty, Con-
sciousness, Form, Order, Law, Music, and  tuber, in
human souls ; and then exhaustion prepareste self-
same material universes-or rather, their bases.for a
new infiltration-of God-Od, so to speak, differihg
from the last'; and so on forever. One procession is
one Eternity-or rather, Cycle. Thus- it will be seenk,
by those who can grasp this tremendous thought, that
all matter-the amazing system of substance, is after
allbut a more fleck-a mote in the sun-rays----,a mere
grain oa the awful shores of the stupendous SPIRITUAL
OCEAN; nor does all the matter existing, bear a greater
proportion to the spiritual, than an orange does in bulk
'to the Rocky Mountain Chain. The material systems
move near its centre, and the spiritual waves flow on
all sides into the Ineffable BEYOND
The fountain, whence they flow is GOD! and this
word " God" is a poor name. Men become "gods" in
the great hereafter--gods for'Goon, USE and OnDIi,
or the opposite of these ; but this, of which I speak, the

258


.'k

260

DEAlINGS WITH THE DEAD.

Eternal4 Secret, the awful, yet radiant MYSTERY, is as
far beyoj d the Ideal Jehovah, as is the human beyond
the anali. Let us make a chain : Matter is the first
link : Sprit is the second-I speak of UNIVERSES nOW,
remember Soul-that which constitutes the Human
THINK-pri iple, is the third ; well, this, OVER-SOUL
flows through all these, as man's spirit through his
body. - Now man is conscious only partly ; he knows
nothing just n the other side of himself, is ignorant of
what life is, aid of that august power which governs h is
involuntary golf. Well, the OVER-SOUL fl vs-out into
the All-into the universe of ,THINK, (I can use no
other term,) to that of Soul, MONADS, Spirit, Matter;*
and while pervading and being imminent in ALL, is'
self-consci  at every point; in the THINK, the MONAD
the Soul the Spirit, the Matter, in every particle that Is,
or ca -fever BE. I hold this, as the truest definition of
then,""eity yet given ; and in the radiant presence of
such a thought, all human things must bow ; all human
pride stand back, all human ideas pale and fade. * *
And these things came to me, and I believe them true.
And God is not good, but beyond it ; is got truth, but
its foundation ; is not power, nor Life, nor THINK, but
beypad, beneath, above all these ! Spirit may be repre-
sented- as the soul of matter : Soul as the inmost of
Spirit ; Monad as the base of Soul;- THINK, as the
essence of Monad; God as the SoUL OF THINK. Here,
let no man smile at these uncouth expressions; they
 stand as symbols of mighty truths. I have said that
Monads were scintillations from God's brain: They
are: That Matter was THE PROCEEDING from his body.
Monads are forms of thought, and are the bubbles on
His ever-rising tide of SOUL. Hence, these monads

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

261

are, so to speak, the giving of of his spirit.God's
Spirit is the element, Soul ; but of THIS Soul, done but
Himself knoweth.
And as I floated there on the sea of knoiiedge, an
impulse sprung up to know more ; and' these.questions,
were fashioned in my soul, and that soul de  ed from
out the mystery the answers appended to eal question:
" Is not man forever in the human form ?' In human
form, YES ; in human shape, no : Man wsas once the
monad-a finite sun. He still is so as tohimself (see
a previous section), and the body which he uses is but
an out-creation, as are his mental pictures; with the
difference that the latter are volitional andcircumstan-
tial, while the former is constitutional. The shape,-
organic, is the very best adapted to the poses it
serves, and it is the effect of a force lying behi the
personal consciousness. Its use is for the material.t
could have none in the spiritual world, save as the
effect of Soul-habit; or as a means of discipline in the
lesser or "lower" departments or conditions thereof.
"How of dead infants ?" Infants have spiritual bodies,
and retain them till discipline places them beyond the
necessity. In all cases, the bodily forms are attach-
ments to the human, so long as the human is in the
sphere of discipline,-hence moves within the possibili-
ties of Good and Evil. When they leave this latter,
and merge into the sphere of USEs, the external of the
soul corresponds to its new state. A soul is imma-
terial, as of the nature of THINK,-hence needs no
stomach to digest food, lungsto breathe air, legs for
locomotion, and so forth ; for all these are principles of
the soul, with mere out-created organs. =When it needs


262        DEALINGS WITH THE- DEAD.

the organs no longer,~it dispenses. therewith, but the,
princip  underlying them still remain,
"Unhurt amid the rush of warring elements,
,te wreck of matter, and the crush of worlds."
A. man  its in his study, and thinks of his father's:
house, m     many miles -away. He sees it ;-well,
brook, barn, trees, garden, flowers,-all, all just as
they really ,xist. Now, the man's body, being a mere
thing of circa instance, still remains in the study, but the
man himself is gone ; his body and spirit are in the
room, but hii self is at the old homestead. Space; time,
and flight !re not to the soul,-only to forms and
things of coarser nature and lesser majesty.
The   &amp;1 thinks "I am   there," and--there it is.
Certain persons, gifted, can see things spiritual ; all
perfoiscan at times, and frequently are sensible of the
presence'of others, whose bodies are far away. They
are made sensible of it by soul-contact. 'It is possible
for a man to project an image of himself to any dis-
tande, which image shall be mistaken for himself.'
These images, being such,.of course, cannot speak when
questioned: by whoever sees them. Whoever 'can pic-
ture the exact simulacrum of himself, can will this
figure whither soever he may choose, and then persons
who behold this declare they have seen his. "spectre,"
" phantom," "ghost," "wraith," or "double."  Again,
the man of strong will and. pure desires may quit the
body:spiritually, actually, and 'be perceptible to. others
at a distance,; may be spoken: to,. hold conversations,;
and move material objects, when his body lies seores of
leagues away.
"Are there demons ?"   Yes, two kinds : forms of

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.           263
fear, corresponding to a man's bad moral state pro-
jected out-creations from  the wicked self. si  are
the fiends, snakes, toads, devils and horrid 1# asters
seen by the victim of deirium -tremens. Of  e, same
order, but beautiful, instead of the reverse,;re the
angels, ghillim, houris, fairy-forms, peris .n aiads,
seen by the rapt enthusiasts-of all ages and oxes, but
especially of the Orient, when inspired by dPium, love,
and religion ;, out-creations of their inmost iouls,-sub-
jective images objectified.. This species of out-projec-
tion pertains to all -persons, while under thediscipline
of good and evil, virtue and vice, and all other material
conditions and accidents. "What do yo" mean by
virtue and vice, as material incidents ?"  I mean that
good and evil are but conditions environing many while
under the sway of his inevitable discipline.
There is such-a thing as the spirit of Co unity. A.
mob is a fearful thing, a dreadful power, and it developes
a ferocity which does not inhere-in any one of the multi-
tude composing it-a material energy of awfl: force.
A- reasoner can take aside, one by one,. an entire
audience, and convince them thus, of the justice of the
cause he advocates ; but, let them be, combined, and he
shall not be able to convince the general sense, nor sne.
ceed in evoking aught but derisive sneers at his "imbe-
}cility." Or conversely : he may:not be able-to convince
the people,. taken singly, yet, let him pour out his. soul
before them, congregated,ar,4he shall sway themas the.
tempest sways the forest-material=energy in both eases.
Again: vice. is frequently not, considered in. the at
itself, but in the how' society views it. Thus, adultery,

'.


264          DEALINGS WITH TE DEAD.
in  e ,'ietlaughedat as "the',mereaffai of sofa ;"
is penalty is a blck eye oroandhalf a
crown   week; in the Orientit i s  mattearof course;
in the  uthern States,lit isalegaland verypeculiar
institute   ;and in New England it is fearful eriine
and ye   , notwithstanding, avOry fashionableice, in
spite o is and bars; one too, that has lately stained
not a few teachers of the gospel.Adultery;so far as
individua   re concerned, is, except i rare instances,
a thing o  eble momientg but, alas! the veryones
who mak    e mos Doise about it, denounce it the
loudest an  rosecute the sinners most grievously, are
the very   'wo are particularly weak in that direo
tion t    e      Man   a judge has left the hehJ
whe     m he had just sentenced some weak one to long
yeako f penal servitude, torevel, in a wanton's arms !
ividuals are governed by .personal lawsn and .in-
ices ;boeiety, cammunity;,the niob, develop an
o       "on  o"sentiment," before which 'all .hai-
table; just, or 'personal considerations vanish and are
f     ;gtt  Many a jury, if individual preferences
were  allowed scope, would fiee:the culprit whom the
"    yer" consign to dungeon or the gibbet. This is
mterial force I Again : A fellow hires himself 'out as
ietocomt homicide as often as he can ;-goes
oudo;.o; ce=ias:back, afterimaking      dozen or
twor,g s a hundred,-hans-      ;settlesl.dow in
lifebeneath     uelslives to  ag d old ge,=dies,
ndgoes   el-4think,with e'e        pang or   i
~of cai  ee. ,.Why? B,'h          ouzt0~ie
ohin         stin ai  a .;   , te vyhig      mna
kilIg      every one of hem  akensingly  condemns
and msteverdisapprove.-

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.       265

This personal feeling is Common- Sense. The other
is Public Opinion. The. last is always wrong ; the
other is always right. The individual is generally just,
the community very seldom. Public opinion is, there-
fore, a mere physical power ; and as such, eternally
changes. Common sense, on the contrary, ever and
always accretes and intensifies, spreads and grows
stronger as the, years and people pass away; the one is
accidental and material; the other, personal, constitu-
tional, and real. Now take a couple of other men, con-
stituted precisely as was our soldier : let them, each for
himself, commit a genteel murder ; one gets caught at
it and is strung up and choked to death in a period of
time, varying from four to twenty minutes; -choked till
his eyes bulge out, his tongue lolls thick and swollen
from his mouth-by a fellow who gets paid for the job.
Society says this is right as Society ; but take every
one that composes it aside, and let him look on that
blue-black throat, at those bulging eye-balls, contorted
features, and ghastly carrion ; ten thousand to one,
that every man of them will denounce this legal
choking affair as a damnable piece of buisness, totally
unworthy of a savage, much less civilized (?) men and
women.
Here you see the thing is material-is the monstrous
out-creation of the social body, and not at all related
to man, as an individual. How happens this out-crea-
tion of the body-politic to be so terrible ?  just go back
a few pages and you will see that "the out-creation
always corresponds to the condition of the being
whence it emanates." The great mass is barbarous to-
day ; and civilization, much less Spiritualization, is the
exception to the general rule and order. Bye-and-bye
12


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

civilization will be the rule, and then we shall have a
bitter "Public Opinion ;" therefore, less hanging, and
things of that sort. Let us work for it.
Turn we now to the fellow that earned his ten dollirs
by performing the choking operation--the nice young
gentleman who so gaily looped the rope and pulled the
neat little spring which sent a soul to God on a yard
of twisted lermp. How does he feel when the job is
over? Why, not at all uneasy. The guilt of doing
this wicked thing is not his, he feels-albeit, he and I
disagree on this point. It is not his, and so he "don't
care a fig." That's it exactly. He, like the choked-
to-death, whose eyes bulge out, who bleeds at the ears,
whose tongue is so largely swollen that it won't stay in
his blood-slavered mouth--he, too, I say, has sent a soul
prematurely cross-lots home; but feeleth he remorse ?
No more than a good dram of sixpenny damnation will
drown-but not forever ! Oh, no 1-for just as sure as
God reigns, he must come up to the bar for sentence,
and must expiate his error .somewhere, at some time.'
The judge, the jury, the legislators-all, just as the
executioner, feel that they are clear of even this judicial
murder, and at last, we trace the responsibility home to
a formless, brainless monster, without a body, yet with
a great black soul, whose name is, "PUBLIC OPINION."
Presently, you and I, sir and madam, will beget a better
one-God speed the day !
Now for tlhe other murderer. He has too much tact
and finesse to be caught, caged, and strung up. Chem-
istry can't fasten the deed on him, nor can skilful detec-
tives trip him up ; and so he goes along, happy as a
lark in the day-time I But somehow or other his dreams
are devilishly unpleasant ! Why ?-Because in the

266

silence of the night, when deep sleep falleth upon men,
a spirit passes before his face, bearing a very astonishing
resemblance to a former acquaintance of his, now, alas !
deceased; and, although he is above the weakness
of believing in "spirits," yethe often catcheshiiself ex-
claiming, "By God, I believe it's his ghost !"-an out-
creation of his foul within. From this day forward, the
invisible fangs of Public Opinion, go'deeper and deeper
into his soul-a moral augur, sinking an artesian shaft
into his very centre-until, at last, the waters are
reached, and burst forth in one full, deep stream of
agony-Remorse.    The executed suffered about ten
deaths, in expiation of the one life he took ; but this
wretch, whose crime is not known, suffers a dozen deaths
a day.
Now, in a community where man-slaying don't count
much against a citizen, this fellow would not have
suffered one whit more than did the soldier, or Jack
Ketch. *   *  *  *  I said that there were two kinds
of denmons. Having described one, we will glance
rapidly at the other ; the process is simple enough. A
man's elevation on the scale depends upon himself'.-if
he lotes disorder more than its opposite, hatred than
love, the deformed than the lovely-why, the man, in
so far forth as he departs from rectitude of his own
purpose and will, just so far does he demonize himself.
And as there is no limit to advancement or descension,
so he may become guileful to an immense degree-be a
demon.
There are myriads of such within the compass, and
on the confines of the Material .Realms, but none beyond
them in the Divine City of Pure Spirit. But within
those limits exists a Badness, so awful, so vast, that the

267

DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.


DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD.

soul shrinks before the terrible reality. These beings
cannot injure our souls, save by the voluntary co-opera-
tion of our own wills and loves.
I content myself with this brief outline now, promising
to take up the subject hereafter. In this book I have
touched only a few of the lesser truths of the Universe,
and shall go deeper next time.                                     *
All these things came to me as I floated on the air.
These practical lessons I received from Thotmor and
his Cynthia, and from my own spontaneous teachings
forth. Presently Thotmor looked lovingly upon the
maiden at his side, and then upon myself. She 'turned
to me, and said, "This lesson will do for the present.
Return once more to earth."  *  *  *  * Again, a
deep sense of drowsiness fell upon me, and seemingly,
I slept. When next I woke, I was beneath the tree,
and the golden sun was setting.
This was not all I learned ; but my present task is
finished. Patience, my reader ! Since these truths were
written I have received a message from beyond the sea.
I am going to cross it.- I shall speedily return and
relate to you and all my brethren the things I there
have seen. Till then, ADIEU!

2.68


  
             
         
       
   
