
    ----CITATION----
        Smith, Julie P., (d. 1883). The Married Belle, or, Our Red Cottage at Merry Bank .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7819
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The married belle, or, Our red cottage at Merry Bank 
            
               NEW NOVELS
BY
JULIE P. SMITH.
L -WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
I.-CHRIS AND OTHO.
II --THE WUDOWER.
IV. --THE MARRIED BELLE.
V. -TEN O1D MAIDs. (In Preparation.)
The novels by this author are of unusual merit, unoom-
monly well-written, clever, and characterized by
great wit and vivacity. They are growing
popular and more popular eyery
day."
A11 published uniform with this volume, at 61.75, and sent freo by
mail, on receipt a price
BY
G. IW. CARLETON &amp; CO., Publishers,
New York.

N

'I

THE MARRIED BELLE
ORS
OUR RED COTTAGE AT          MERRY    BANK
A NOVEL.
BY
JULIE    P. OSM ITH-,
AUTHOR Or
"Wwow GoLDsMIT's DAUGHTER, "CHRIS AND Omo," "TrE-
WIDOWER," ETC., ETC.

NEW YORK:
G.. W. Carleton     &amp;   Co., Publhshers.
LONDON: S. LOW, SON &amp; CO.
M.DCCC.Lxxxr.

i
1
d    _


a

- -.s

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1872, by
G. W. CARLETON &amp; CO.,
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.

t2(
'dm~f2

I
To
My Good Friend,
ARY 1T.   oLJ M ES,
I DEDICATE THIS STORY, WITH DEAR LOVE.
3z I's-, .  u sc x

# f

Stereotyped at the
WO MEN'S    PRINTING      H.OUSER
56, 58 and 6o Park Street,
New Yorke

dw'x

-l

t
Ii

lam'

i
.. S   '
t :dl1
l
1
i
*     , '


CONTENTS.

CHAPTER
1.--The Red Cottage    .    .       .
II.-The Sweet Singers of Israel
III.-Henry's First Guest .
IV.-" Where the Bee sucks there lurk'I"
V.-Lord Feigning's Daughter
VI.--"Yours truly, George Blair" .
VII.-The Letter and the Picture .    .
VIII.-" Dies Fastus"
IX.-Were you never in Love, Carlotta?
X.-They that go b Ocwinggo     ~owing
XI.      shall be a lady  ever"":   .
XII.-Kitty visits the Quince hish  .    .
XIJI.-The Ogress' Castle. ..-.
XIV.-P i'nce Almanazar and Lady Delight.
XV.-Carlotta dances a Quadrille.     .
XVI.-Making Love in the Ball-4oom.
XVII.-Paul and Virginia,     .
XVIII.-Kitty learns her Catechism
XIX.-=Aunt Elinor's Disappointment

XX.-Kitty's First Offer

PAGE
.      .  .  r,
"         " SII
-         30
S.40
"         .    48
-         - 57
. 6.
.         .88
92
.         . 110
.    .    .   119
.    .    . 142
.    .    .   i68
.    .    . 179
.    .    .   194
S .  .r212
.    .    .   234
.    .    .240-
.    .    .   253
.    .    . 258

.iS  .  .  .  260

h t  j

0

s

.                   _
,
;,, ,                                               "  _             -'
-                        -         d'


CONTENTS
CH APTER
XXI.-Uvetinig Angds uaware}s
XXII.-Basswood versus Hickoy.
XXIII.-A Pean of Triumph .      .
XXIV.-r-Lord Feigning's Daughter.
XXV.--Our Nutting Party.
XXVI.-Ghosts on Rollers
XXVII.-Young Love and Old Love        .
XXVIII.-One was taken, the other left
XXIX.-Archie's Confession .
THE LAsT.--Good-by to all -. .-   *

PAGE
.                 2.  .  .278
S.        .   . 281
.    0    .       290
- - - - 301
.    .    .   0   308
."        .   .331
.    .    .        41
. . 5
*    -    -  ~    358

MY DEAR READERS:
I GLANCED into the "Autocrat " this morning, and
saw something. I liked so much that I thought I
would speak a 'few words to yo  in the same vein.
I am not fond of flourishing ti  say-so of other
people, or trimming my actions and ideas to any-
body's pattern.
If a "store-clerk" interrupts my consideration of
the dead black silk I am about to buy, by telling
me, ''butiful piece of goods, ma'am; Mrs. Judge
Sampson took a dress of it this morning," I am quite
apt to toss away the fabric and say, "'Oh' indeed! if
that be so, I won't take one."
The say-so I had in mind was about writing to Au.-
thors your opinion of their works. Many writers pro-
nounce "'book letters " a bore and nuisance. I don't.
I like.them. A young maid let me know that Sonsie
Eagan's thoughts and doings inspired her with cour-
age to fight fate and conquer caste ; a woman sent me
1*

I

, ,    I)

r-
.j
Y

.t

.i              .,                  e
y                             ^'
ii _
r

A

,i.
i     _
a        ':    .,
_'       ,%;
-t:


word that the busy usefulness of the Roaring River
girls fired her with energy and resolution to fill her
life with work; and one wrote to me how lie desired
"truth, purity, delicacy, culture," more after walk-
ing py the side of our Chris through her trials; and I
must tell you that my very soul sang for gladness
in gettingthese good messages. I thank you for the
pleasant letters you have sent me. I treasure them
all carefully.
could bear dispraise, if it were honest. There is
a small lassie who walks about my place, as straight
as a reed, as merry and full of fun as tricksy Puck=--
often carrying a volume under her arm and when I
come upon her in a cosey nook reading, I- say,
"What is it to-day, Lux?" and she replies, "That
nauseating attempt at a novel called 'Widow Gold-
smith's Daughter," repeating the words of a California
critic upon the first scribble I sent you. Lux is not
reverent; she calls me " dear old woman," she finds
Fault with my stories, catches me tripping in my uni-
ties: ,but I don't mind ; it is easy to be kind to those
who loverus.
Do you remember the toast Tiny Tim gave at the
great Crachet Christmas Dintier? I take leave of you
in his very words, "God bless us every one." .

JULIE P. SMITIL-

I

THE MARRIED, BELLE.

CHAPTER I.

THE RED COTTAGE.

N ancient nursery called "Eden " has.some-
times received favorable notice as a tolerably
fine garden, although no catalogue of its col-
lection has been preserved, which is a pity,.  One
John Milton mentioned a few 'sti4gards, such as
" woodbine, ivy,,roses, myrtle," etc., but in so un,
scientific, desultory a manner, as to be entirely ui-
satisfactory to thorough. gardeners. We- all know a
plant can give no solid pleasure to a trp4 e florist which
has not a Latin 'name at least three syllables long, it
being as indispensable as a pedigree t9 a horse, or a
crested grandfather to a genteel family.

, REJ c .

1to


THE RED C TTAGE.
Eden bore no thorns or t istles,no weeds; and we
are told by the aforesaid  ilton that all work about
the place consisted,-in "lo ping, propping; pruning,
and binding."  An exceed ng stupid, stale, flat state
of affairs. Such a nursery may have suited Adam
and Eve, those young people being but novices in
the complex arts of hybridizing, forcing, dwarfing,
and budding; but I would not be afraid to wager on
the amount of satisfaction they got out of their la-
bor, after 'they found diffic ties to grapple with, fa-
tigues to be endured.
Fancy Adam tugging might and main at a great,
strong,, healthy burdock, for instance, whose long,
yellow root is busy sucking jurces from the breast of
its mother Earth, satisfied to dwell in seclusion, and
labor in secret to support the children it has pushed
up into the world, and which declines to be dragged
-_into society it has no capacities for. What a jolly
keel-over our excellent fore-daddie got, when at last
heprevailed- and dragged the obstinate thing forth in
his two fists ! How he and Eve laughed at the fun
siting on the fresh -smelling mould, wiping from their
brows the. honest 'sweat ! They probably talked it
over: perlYaps our maternal parent was busy with the
family sewing, her vegetable-ivory thimble on her
round finger, and her devil's darning-needle merrily
yflyig while she made becoming little aprons and
things. The flaming sword was glancing and swing-.
ing every which way in front of 'the old platation ;
but bless you ! they'd got through lI g and

THE RED COTTAGE.

'I3

propping -and lolling about in arbors.  Their lives
those later times were full of. steady work, and -no
strikes.
Weeds grow with ex-Eden .facility in the Red Cot-
tage garden, but flowers grow there also lovingly, and'
yield to our fostering care riches of beauty and sweets.
Imagine that the shade has gone back on the dial-
plate, and in place of breathing these sultry summer
airs, think you feel upon your cheek the vigor-giving
vernal breath of a clear May morning.
The anemones and hyacinths are in full bloom,
nodding and smiling in the gentle breeze, as they
pour forth the complimepof the- season.  'It was
the self-same Power Divine taught them to bloom
and you to shine." The common mother is no step-l
-dame to them. She embraces. them tenderly, and
shelters their roots with the light touch you could
wish when she enwraps your mortality in the. dim
earth-house built for you ere.you were born.
Among the borders and clumps tarries, trowel in
hand, the lady Carlotta, fronr morn till dewy eve, on
these fine spring days. She ardently loes her flowern
pets; she says they know her, confide .in her, and
communicate their inner life, their flowery -loes and
joys; that she is on hand anddYoxglove terms with
their Queen, who often consults her about "'Love in,
a huddle,'" Love in idleness," "Love lies bleeding,"
asking advice touching her " Bachelor's Buttons'"-se
prone to entangle among the "_Maiden's hair "--her
Sweet Williams, her. Mourning Brides her "Johnny


THE RED COTTAGE.}

Jumpups," too frisky and spry, and the "Jack" who
desires to occupy a pulpit; her -"" Monk'Hoods,"
"Cardinals," "Hooped Petticoats," and  'Ladies'
Eardrops," and divers other solicitudes, showing
that the cares and responsibilities of the sovereign
must be. many and perplexing.
Between ourselves, I regard the above statement as
a cheerful phantasy. I could not take my Bible oath,
though, that it is not fact.  No mortal can surely
state the precise limit of another mortal's senses. Al-.
though my dull airicles are not able to hear the tiny
corn-blades springing dnder the ground, I couldn't
undertake to aver that Fine Ear lies when he tells
me the tinkling music is as vibrant a the' ringing of
the fairy bells to his delicate perception. I don't deny
anything : I only wish I was Fine Ear.-
Carlotta looks extremely picturesque in her broad-
brimmed .Canada hat of yellow wheaten straw, en-
wreathed 'about with corn poppies. Maud Miller
making hay was beautiful, I suppose, tfiough the pop-
ular picture of her looks to my rustic eyes "like the
most unprofitable sign of nothing." But Carlotta
leaning on her spade would be a study of pith for a
painter, and the homely hoe in her supple harids be..
comes a gracious implement.
The spirit of our surroundings is so roomy,
leisurely, and thought-permitting; that I believe I
should leave off inditing good matter to you, my
precious readers, andfall dreaming, wereit not for
the chippering, hcppig, fluttering, and unrest of a
g;  -unrst-, f

company of blue-birds upon the low roof of the old
porch ,below my "crow's. nest,"' who ,have, thrust
their vital, vivacious bird-life upon the serene stillness
of country r@se. They are some while ago re-
turned from southern travel, and have not nearly
finished talking up their adventures among the rice-
fields ,and sugar-cane. The big fellow perched on
the eave-trough, dipping hither and thither in the
sunlight, bringing- to -view his rich azure feathers
with their purple reflections, his jetty black pens
andtail, and the! ruddy chestnut of his shining sides,
and pouring forth his voluble notes, has been 'in
Washington. There is " doings. of Congress" and
"human progress " in every toss of his plumed head,
and every knowing glance of his bright eye, para=
doxical as the connection may appear. Last year
his mate reared a great cow-bird in the rustic'cottage
planned and built for her use by Cariotta, with a
jack-knife, from four ,pine shingles ; neglecting her
own offspring to feed the intruder, feeling all the
while that there was a screw loose, but not able to
comprehend how it had come to passthat she had
hasd such greatness -thrust upon her. Now that. he
las fini hed his oration, amidst applause, and clapping
of wing, he'and she are going away.to visit the old
house, which; feels like home, still; -and plan s0me
mode of defence ag4ist the pestilent Fringilla, who
sits on a neighborin. bush, stretching her dark drab
necks as glQoy pas a lady quaker's satinbonnet, and
puffinig:out ,er violet b en, while she carefully e
F' '. r   i  F}"r ' F1    :,. .,rit         , F   A
1          t  j  '  , ,  ,   i   F    r ' t 7 '     -  '  ;s,% ",'1,  7.l ; ~
"  -  _   ~~~ ~~~~~~~~F l.t1  {     t!  '  k    1) '  ,  l ,,'(:  ,} , tf , .  ''i     : ! f

' ,
_.  , ,
E ti   61Yt    'itJ   ,
'Y            - #   '
iv
^ ,
:
hy '
k =        i
y'#
ra,

a             f

.

I4

THE READ COTTAGE*

z5

I !                        ti


THE RED CQTTA GE.

amines the domicile, where she means to eve reared
her great, hulking offspring.
We will adopt no children of yours 'his year,"
says the sober-tinted wife.
Not for Joseph, if he knows it; cl(,;es in the
slangy, rollicking husband, or wordsto-tht effect.
Cow, Cow," called out the Troppiai from  her
picket-bush; "now, now, don't make; a row "-still
keeping her eye on the nest, and waiting her oppor-
tunity.
We have favorite flowers in our garden,. which we
call our flowers of friendship.. A  or instance, a
clump of Scotch roses,, from. which ;vere gathered
once. some modest blooms for, a n  est fair maid,
the only bride we have ever sent   from the sold
home; also a bunch of lilies, whicyielded their
waxen beauties to be entwined among thg tresses of
her pretty little bridesmaid. Then'thr . the Yew,
a tall tree now, from whence our pet rAr $e Lawrie
broke a tiny sprig for.a parting bouiet.; culled to
bear him company on his journey when  put loose
from his old friends and started for college  'He fo
ghM- orgo;,
the posy after all, inthe absorbment of rple-sugar,
flap-jacks, and leave-taking, and- Carlotta pinned
it carefully up against the wall in-a cord er of the
quiet old parlor. Perhaps-it was partly for her liking
of the lad, partly in memory of the scolding she had
,.been sharply moved to give him thatlst day of his
stay, for despoiling her little Irish green (she can
point out the exact spot of the robbery), and a little

THE RED COTTAGE.
also or the good, hearty, boyish hug she got from the
bonnie laddie. Though he has been four years gone,
the dried flowers are all undisturbed; never profaned
b unfriendly fingers, and bearing upon their faded,
blonless remains..all the sacrednesst of a precious
Ofr' flowers rejoice at merry-makngs ; they mourn
fwierals;- they brighten sometimes the loly altar
oft churchc, though Mrs. Deac  Rotterdanm does
not iike to see them there ; she says, it.looks pop-
ish. Carlotta does not much care what anybody
says, and though Mrs. ,Ramble took pains to bring
he the full pith of Mrs. Rotterdam's opinions of her
doings, she gathered her offerings just as' carefully,
and with as unalloyed enjoyment, as if her labor of
love had been smiled on. -She says flowers are God's
beauties, and they shall adorn His sacred house,
popish or no popish.
Our garden-treasures also gladden the hearts of
small children (they reach through the pickets and
claw them out by handfuls, the young reprobates !),
and they perfume our lives.  They rest us ;when
weary; they comfort our sadness, and inspire our
dulness. T1-ere are but three of us, and we liv -as
we list; we 'follow the fashions afar off, like spies;we
sing when we feel merry, we scold when we are
bilious, we laugh when we are hilarious, and we fill
our homes with such occupations as suit us best,.
Freedom and independence dwell with us; 'We =10
ago learnedto respect each other's good points.and


k
/

z8

THE RED'COTTAG.

wink at each other's little foibles. Carlotta's wIk is
the vyer inspiration of mischief, and tells more effec-
tually than a loud laugh of mine. She i the 'cutest,
sharpest, wittiest little female I happen to know.
Going from home as I do sometimes, I. find other
women insipidly wanting in flavor ; and it was not
till I arrived at years of comparison, that I ascertained
the reason to be this same Carlotta's piquant origin-
ality; full of anecdote, of quips and quirks and
funny gibes. Of course, being two women to one
man, Henry occasionally finds himself in a miserable
minority; and is fain to retire from contested fields,
unlaurelled; but being like our Southern neighbors,
who didn't know when they were whipped, he is l-
ways ready to renew the tournament with undaunted
cou ge and burnished weapons.
Our Red Cottage garden is a famous place for
studying nature; not only flower, bird, insect, and
reptile, but the. real unadulterated hurhan in its Va-
rious aspects"and phases. It was but the other day;
we were working. The complete we includes Henry,
Carlotta, and Serena ; good, honest names, bestowed
by our excellent, and much revered parents, in
Christian baptism, when they Ystood together at the
font with as serious faces and prayerful hearts as the
inopportune squalling of their hopefuls would permit.
My' mother received but coldly the condolences of
the good lady who bewailed our uproarious be-
havior because, as she said," it was a had omen if
a baby cried not when the water of christening

THE RED COTTAGE.

19

touched its forehead, and theant short- life for it."
As I was saying, we knelt among our 'wind-flowers
(the feminine-we, Henry being at is office), weeding
diligently, when an ancient dame appeared, of dried
and shrivelled aspect, and red eyelids, as of a dweller
in the vicinage of a smoky chimney, and wafting upon
the cirturhambient air a mixed odor, harm-fat, dish-
water, onions, cabbage, and snuff. We "knew her
well; she looked with such a look, -and she spoke
with such a tone," that we recognized Mrs. Ramble,
the truckrnan's wife. The Merry Bank people hold
persistently the opinion that she is fond of watching
and prying among her neighbors' affairs'; and she
certainly knows all, about everybody. She came, I
say, and leaned her elbows on our low picket4ence,
and surveyed us and our surroundings with a com-
prehensive sweep of the visual sense, inventorying
ur apparel, noting our attitudes and occupation.
" Mornin', Carlotty !" said she; presently, in a
dried-up, wiry voice) as hard as her face  "I ain't
goin' to stay a second hardly. Ye're diggin' away
for dear 'life'!. folks say you're a dreadful sprycreatur'
to work.~ You 'beat everybody to flatround. I'
spousee you like the name on't; but I should think
you'd ketch yer never-get-over, setting' on that damp
ground. No ? well, you'll find out sore ay you
ain't made of iron I I never could get tineforthat
fooling' amongst posies. There's so many meetin's to
go to; so many sinners out 'of the ark. Did y heat
what Miss Squirmwell spoke in conference Last night


20 ..THE   -E  COTTAGE.

I see you want to meetin', any of ye. Oh, yes;.sh
talked considerable about forgiveness. I expect some-
body's been offendin' her. I guess as like as not it's
you, Carlotty. You jes as lief tread on her toes as
not. Sheprayed right out for you in female meetin'
'last week, I 'spose you know."
Me ! " exclaimed Carlotta; '"how thoughtful of
her ! that accounts for my feeling so remarkably
good-explains the placid benevolence of my hu-.
mor."
"rThe land !.I believe you'd make fun if you was
a-dyin' ! I hope you won't come to my funeral. I
know you'd snicker if my'cap wa'nt on straight, or
the ,pleats happened to get twisted in. my coffin.
You little midget,- you! come, yank up some of
them smoke-pipes. I'll carry 'em home to Alumzy
Jane, to plant in her little bed ; she's desput fond of
posies."
Nay, dear Mrs. Ramble,. that is too rash a test
of my benevolence; those are choice flowers. I can-
not rise and give thee those, but here is a gay bunch
of daffadowndillies she shall have, and welcome."
She used her trowel to 'good purpose, and quickly
lifted the roots fromtheir place, transplanted them to
the dame's red cotton handkerchief, extended to re-
ceive them ; and cutting short anaccount of a rife
quarrel between Mrs. Pillhach'le and Mrs. Deacon'
Rotterdam, embracing some strong opinions of Car-.
gotta herself, exchanged during their last sword exer-
sei she bespoke the assistance of young Mr. Top..

THE RED COTTAGE.              21
lofty, who was just passing the toll-gate, to .convey
to her lares and penates the excellent Mrs. Ramble.
"How lucky !" said she; "now you can be in
prime season for the evening meeting, and save your
strength for the hymns.'
Mr. Toplofty drew rei4 ; he couldn't well do less;
but he made a grimace at me behind his hand, which
was wrong; and Carlotta winked at us both and
laughed.
Wherefore such lavish generosity with my daffo
dils?" inquired I, as he drove away. We could"
hear the dame's voice uplifted above the clatter' of
resounding hoofs and revolving wheels. "And why
did you ruthlessly forceFsuch unwelcome company
upon that friendless, unprotected young man ?
" Put away a froward mouth, and -perverse lips
keep far from thee," is a command. "I took the
readiest method, the swiftest .conveyance - which
offered," replied Carlotta, resuming her labor; "did
not you hear her say '1I ain't goin' to stay a second
hardly'? She always stops to tea when she utters
those fearful words.  Smoke pipes, indeed . what
sacrilege to so- misname. my true poet's lNiarcissus t
The handsome boy couldn't have been more in love
with his image, than am I with these creamy things.
The horse-leech hath three daughters, crying 'GiveI
give'-and that' horrible old- Rambler is one- of
them. I believe this is the first time, in her life she
ever turned her back on the place without borrowing
something.


22          -4TE RE2- C0T4gE

Scarcely had Mr. Toplofty borne away his charge
of mature virtue, and Carlotta was still in a ruffled
stateof mind, when a man-stopped at the fence, and
~after tying his steed to a thrifty young maple, ust
putting forth its pale green leaves, and which, of
=  course, the-animal cropped at its leisure, he: came
through the=gate, leavingit ( ajar,oni. little, Ipray.
you," and affording ingress to Jane Mallony's pig,
who whisked his tail with delight as he followed in-
the footsteps of his illustrious predecessor. His feet
were. large (this coming man), and they throttled re-
morselessly our lovely white pansies, took pitiless
strides -across the mignonette, and effectually sup-
pressed a young tiger-flower which was, getting
courage to take its place amongst its peers. He
held to his nose, en Passmet, a tulip plucked fromthe
border, wherewith to refresh his sense as he walked,
like Bunyan's pilgrim. It was named "Lady Mer-
cer inthe catalogue, apple-scented and very choice..
When he had inhaled a satisfactory sniff of the per-
fume, he jerked it towards us.
"Have you got_ any of these roots to spare,
maam ? I gin a piece, of garden tomy darters to
plant their posies, and I thought, as I was riding' by,
I'd stop and git a few little things to begin on.
You've got a nice sprinklin' of 'em, and I reckon you
won't miss 'em-- should like a couple of these holly-
hocks well enough" (grabbing at an early althea
beside him).
Carlotta cut into halves a wire-worm she caught,

THE RED COTTAGE.

thieving into the heart of a hyacinth bulb; before she
pushed off her boad-brii, and shot a glance at the
intruder, which covered him and the flowers he held.
"The tulip you have there is only a couple of
months from Holland, and has never bloomed be-
fore," said she severely. "4(I never pluck my tulips
but upon rare occasions; as you have broken it, I
will sell you theiulb."
She had grown crafty by the frequency of such
applications. The Red Cottage stands upon a much r
travelled road, in immediate vicinage of a toll-gate,
where all the budding beauty of her; pets shines
temptingly-upon the travellers pausing to deposit
their three cents, for the u'se of the planks, with the
lame keeper. "Yes, yes ! - them's the diggers,"
exclaimed the flower-seeker, his eyes following
anxiously the murderous slicing of the bright trowel,
"and they're harder to kill'n a cat, ain't they.? well,
how much 'd you tax for some of these red roses,
pulling a full-cupped splendens from our best per-
petual, and adding it to his collection. Though a
trifle cast down at the idea of paying, he still re-
solved to do the handsome things he had gone-so
far. "I never did spend no money for such ginm-
cracks, but Iwon't mind a sixpence or so to please
my gals."
"I cannot part with any more .of -my roses at any
price," replied Carlotta, glowering, at the igst- and
gone treasures, "but I will sell you that bulb for fiv
dollars, and that is two less than it cost me."


24

THE RED. COTTAGE.

:

Positively it was .as good as a play, the look of
blank, amazed affright which stole over the sun-dried
countenance of the father of the gals. "Five dollars!'"
he, repeated so slowly that the last syllable died in a
subdued gurgle; dropping the blossoms thus rudely
snatched from their parent stems, that he might slap
his pockets with both hands, and convince himself
that he had not already gone and acted the proverb,
the last clause of which . is "soon parted."  No !
thank Midas !-the old leathern wallet was there all
right and tight, and as fat as ever. He hustled off
without a reply to Carlotta's bland "Good-morning,'
sir."  His horse, meantime, had not barked the
pretty maple more than half around ; we tied it up,
and hope it will live.
Our stock of visitors was not exhausted, however,
nearly so soon as our patience, because right away
after the horseman had ,galloped off with spread
elbows and bent knees, like Ichabod Crane riding to
the fair Katrina, Mrs. Pillhackle pranced in, all brisk-
ness, black garments, jet ornaments, and grief. She
demanded "-something white and pure-looking " for
the only little Pillhackle which had ever put forth
from the parent stem, and after a:sob or two, and all
the wriggles and unpleasant faces it knew how to
execute, had retired from the scene and left the pair
lamenting. Mrs. Pillhackle informed us, as if .the
avowal were a proclamation of severe Spartan virtue,.
that she had always kept a bouquet of :flowers on,
baby's grave ever since she buried him ; a fact so

F

. ,
1 w     _
"_':
,
e.            r
i,           -
'         r
.
4.     ri        .
J,
;-
t
,; i 4 s~r
c
K.          i t
." !.   _
z  '    rr '
f"        ,       i
it        :   ,L, ,
'zt '   4.,,,  t,
.
k'       }; s;' - ';
J',4
: ;
t_          ,.#
=-,
;
.L              !
' .
'                a
I             
E;
.t
-    « '
t
!'
t      r
b
Y .f
_4;
1'    rJ
''

THE RED COTTAGE.              25
patent to us, that she need scarcely have mentioned
it, because we had been honored by being permitted
to " furnish forth" the bouquet ever since that sad
event. So there went the best of the white pansies,
hyacinths, and snow-drops, to wither in the forlorn
old burying-ground.
"'There ." ejaculated Carlotta; "who next ?"
"Egypt's royal qtieen, which the same is her name-
sake," replied I, pointing out a smiling female of the
colored variety, who requested, with the cheerful, soft-
voiced alacrity peculiar to her race, to have '"a few
posies for my husband's funeral; he's going' to be
buried this afternoon, and wouldn't Miss Sereny
lend me a black shawl fur to wear."
.As Cleopatra, commonly called Pate, was our char-
woman, who sometimes cut loose from her husbands
without the ceremony of burying them, we were
quite willing to encourage her attempts at decency,
and we administered to her necessities.
"Now I know there isn't any one else. to come,"
said Carlotta, as Pate departed,'brimful of the ap-
proaching festivity in which she was to shine as chief
mourner. "I know there can't be !"
She was mistaken; a bevy of school-girls from Miss
Stratton's "female Seminary" were already in sight,
and came crowding through the gate, chatting, gig.
gling, and skipping among the other flowers like
animated rose-buds.. They wanted. specimensAo
analyze in the botany clans, and Miss Carlotta was so
good, and'had such pretty ones. I mustsay Ienjoy-


THE RED COTTAGE

ed their fresh nonsense (I* do like young girls), and I
supplied their wants with pleasure, It took about a
peck of blossoms to ,meet the, demand, not including
the handful of lilies of the valley I privately bestowed
upon little Flora Cresswell for .her sweet similitude
therewith, and I rather stood between them  and
Carlotta, whose replies 'began to wax short and
sharp, like the snip of her pruning scissors ; and they
were scarcely off before. she dashed down her gloves
in despair.
" Shut the door, good John," said she, " and say I'm gone to bed ;
Oh, shut the door ! and say I'm sick, I'm dead!"
She strode away leaving me to follow at my leisure,
which I did just in time to catch an often request
from Bill Ramble, who approached with a. basket on
his arm-" S'Gorton, s'mapples?"     I knew   the
meaning of the demand, being accustomed to his
idiotic--I beg pardon-idiomatic use, of the vernacu-
lar. It always reminded me of the old red school-
house where the boys used .to pop up and say,
Master, maint I g'-out-; t' git-s'mice to put'n my
jacket t' keep ma nose from    bleed'n?"   After
dispatching him to Winnie, I ascended to Carlotta's
room, and entering- unbidden, I sat down by the
window. "Good Gardener," said I, " I have come
to read you my little bit of writing about our Red
Cottage."
Better indite a sonnet to the Harpies," replied
she concisely.'

." On the contrary, you (know you enjoy extremely
this pleasuregiving., and you would miss these daily
visits and requests from your life, feeling as if your
occupation was gone. What -,if Bianca Ashcroft
were to fail coming for the geranium leaf and rose-
bud at the next gathering'; or that forlorn, young.
Frisbee) who eats your ginger-cakes, should show no
more his dirty face,--how would you feel ?"
"Well, well, Serena, go.on with your abuse-that
is, with your poem," replied Carlotta, still ruffled in
spirit ; "and let me get at something of import-
ance.
I was fain to proceed with .such encouragement as
I got ; and I read in my best voice :
OUR HOME.

It is not a palace or castle hall
With marble floor or ivied wall;
And ancient parks of grand old trees
Waving proudly in the breeze.
Oh ro! our home"is a humble spot,
The passer-by might mark it not,
But there dwells love,
Sweet love.
The lowly roofris thick with moss,
And vines;ofroses wind across
Thi little porch ;
And there in sweet, glad sum ir-ime,
When all the flowers are in th  prime,
A little blue-bird builds her nt:
She knows she is a welcome guest,
For there dwells love,
Rich lover

Running comments by Carlotta during
the reading!
"Palace! no, I should say not; very
far from it indeed."
"Mark it not! I wish I could see such
a passer-by : they all spot the place in a
minute, and begin to-beg for posies,-
"Yes-and it leaks like riddlee.1
" The roses are covered with slugs."
"'Humph I blue-birds  always build
early, in the spring.

THE RED COTTA CE.

26

27


T11E PED COTTAGE.

THE REtD COTTAGE.

There's a little garden just below,
Where hyacinths and daisies grow,
And the bright anemone;
And a gentle river runs along
And sings a happy, gladding song.
There grows the sweet forget-me-not :
It tells a story to my heart,
Of love, true love.
The rooms within are low and small,
One single picture deces the wall.-.
Our mother's form.
I've watched it when the sun went down,
And te golden clouds grew dark and
brown;
I've fancied that the placid face,
Where lingering love has left sweet trace,
Has smiled on me:
It looked all love.
Dear love.

"Yes, they would grow if people would.
only leave them alone"
"'River' I Gully Brook, I suppose : a
muddy, galloping, trolloping thing, always
full of chips and sticks, and bordered
with pig-pens and hen coops, 'gladding
song !?"'

I noticed that Carlotta's stinging. comments sub-
sided when'I came to the forget-me-nots[ and also
that her fingers played restlessly with the little shell
combs she held. I knew right well that she had a
heart of her own, to which the smallmodest vergisz-
meinnicht had never ceased to speak.. I watched her
that day, before the Astor sailed. out in the garden,
picking the little starry-eyed things; I saw her
divide them into two clusters, and I know where her
half are, still hidden-up in a queer old box; she didn't
know I saw her;. I never told; her, but I won't reveal
her secrets.
That last verse is very nice, Serena," said she
softly, after a brief silence. "Mother has got a
saint's face, the poor blind mother I she used to call
us her live senses. ' I love to think about it, and the

boy Henry, crisp and impatient to us, was. always
ready to read and talk with her and you, Serena;
supplied the missing sight, so well, that she saw with
your eyes, and I-ah ! I might have done better,
but I loved her. I don't believe the youngest is ever
good for much."
"You make the richness and flavor of the place
dear," said I; "our beloved is a garden of spices.
"Thank you for your-two-sided compliment. ' . I
was. a bit spicy to-day.over those 'rashly importu-
nates.' There is a- nice dash of truth in your verses-
Our old Red Cottage is a safe, quiet place-for some
kinds of love."
"I am glad you approve -ny poem, Carlotta,
because I am thinking of sending it to the ' Crispy
Onion' for publication."
"Do, by .all means," Carlotta rose briskly; she
heard the little gate clang, and her black eyes caught
sight of a familiar .figure from the window. She ex-
changed her mood of softened retrospect for a house-
keeper's bustle. ."Heny is coming to dinner," said
she, "with law-suits bristling all over him,'and the
table is not laid. Come quickly, Serena; get out the
jelly7-

28

r

29

,

4

'                 .             ,         _


THE SWEE T SINGERS OF ISRAEL.

CHAPTER II.

THE SWEET SINGERS OF ISRAEL.

OU will be pleased, my own readers, to-
know. that we Red Cottageites belong to the
Stone Church choir. Henry blows the flute
and fills the chorister's chair, Carlotta leads the so-
prano, and I- have the alto all to myself,.
We take-great credit to ourselves, that we are al-
wvays in our places of a Sunday, be it sunny or
cloudy, wet or dry, cold or hot. Snowstorms are to
us feathery delights ; we revel in them, we wrap our
cloaks about us, and up we g 0--excelsior ! over the
hill, over the canal bridge, pas the quiet stores,
around corners, cleared for the day of loafing gentry;
cleared of dozing old farm-horses, and dingy wagons,
past saloons and beer-shops, from whence our holy
r      Sabbath has .turned forth their lounging tipplers,
or hidden them in back places ; past village homes,

right, to the church steps. Sure as the bell tolls we
are there, in our places ; ready to rise into the very
inspiration of psalmody, float in it, soaring on
devotional wings.
Do not for a moment suppose that we Red Cot-
tageitesrconstitute the choral body ; on the contrary,
many and many pretty maids come smiling in, bring-
ing sunshine with them, at the call of the Sabbath
bell, and with a rustle and a flutter settle behind the
red curtain which shelters our sanctum from the pro-
fane gaze ; and dimpled fingers, incased in fairy little
gloves, agitate the leaves of the National Psalmody,
when our pastor names the hymn, and young voices
pour forth their fresh sweetness,-let us hope 'some-
times acceptably, in orison-worship to our Heavenly
Father.
Besides these; on the bass side of our gallery, t4ere
are, stalwart figures and thoughtful faces, the staple
of our manhood, "praising God-and saying Halle-
lujah'!" Among them for years and years, in fact
long before I attained to the dignity of first alto, a
stout-built, sturdy Dutchman has stood and - sung,
firm as the everlasting hills, digging foundation deep
'for his heavy tones,. grinding them'hp by the card-
not always to the chord  perfectly regardless of the
winks and nudges passing among his neighbors, or
the, vehement adjurations of the afflicted chorister
in rehearsals, or his stage whispers in hymn-time:
"Piano ! Deacon Rotterdam; Pianissimo; affetuoso !
and do not beat time with your boot, if you please,
Deacon Rotterdam."   Carlotta says the good man

31.

:


THE SWEE.7 SINGERS OF ISRAEL.

THE SWEE T SINGERS OF ISRAEL.

(f

sings with the understanding also. Not a whit cares
he; sometimes I think he really enjoys the nervous fid-
gets his gritty grinding awakes in our sensitive Harry,
and his frowning expression of the same. Indeed, he
once said to a friend in confidence:
"I don't b'lieve Gorton wants me to sing up gal-
lery, and for that very reason I'm going' to sing."
He is thoroughly orthodox, is Deacon Rotterdam,
to the back-bone ; says he don't find any proof in
his Bible that infants are saved, and is content to pin
his faith to old John Calvin's coffin--burrowing in the'
dark ages, and hugging the breme and ghastly belief.
that they are all damned-probably, notwithstand
ing he has young ones of his own pegetting around
his hearthstone.  I remember quite well how
ashamed I used to feel for him, when, a little lassie, I
had to sit and listen to his weekLy confessions of
guilt in the evening conference ; and as I was just in
the Decalogue for my Bible-lessons, I used to look at
him, and, fit into him every commandment on the
stone tablets, and wonder which he had last wickedly
broken, and why he made a point of telling his fellow-
sinners, instead of his God.
Deacon Rotterdam looks askance at all innovations
and improvements, even in the form of a contribu-
tion-box, and stumps doggedly up and down the
aisles, poking the long-handled money-chests under
our noses, which our grandfathers contrived; he says,
"they're just right, "good enough," and- though
the little kists are battered and worn; he, won't hear
of new ones. If a stray fiddle chance to find its way

into'the alto seat, he anathematizes, it in good set
terms, and advises, with a pious frown, to turn, out
the irreverent interloper, neck and heels. Our worthy
Rotterdam has never digested the good old Catholic
doctrine, " in essentials, unity ; in non-essentials, lib-
erty ; in all things, charity?'
Any unlucky dog who happens to thrust, his pry-
ing nose within the church-door 'during service is
sure to attract the ever-watchful eye of the deacon,
and he directly rises, clothed in majesty of office and
squeaking boots, and kicks out the intruder, with no
show of the Christian quality of mercy. His long
swallow-tail keeps time to the motionof his heavy
legs; his obstinate mouth dropped at the corners and
his eyebrows threateningly gathered together are quite
terrible to see, and poor Tray departs sniffling and
whining, feeling perhaps that he might have kept
better company. The small boys giggle and the
little girls get pale,'and a diversion from the order
of worship is created, and a few smiles, unbecoming
the place, play about the composed faces of the older
church-goers ; and the good man squeaks back to
his pew, feeling that he has done holy service, and
vindicated beyond all question the sacred solemnity
of the consecrated house. Once, however, he drew
upon himself an angry retort he little expected, from
the owner of a smallish black puppy who had -"a
turn for goin' to meetin'." He delighted to accom-
pany his mistress, and when serion was about half
over, would rise on his hind legs, place his fore paws

r'                               '   .
,,

32

33-


34 THE -SWEET SINGERS OF ISRAEL.

on the seat-back, and .inspect the congregation with
ludicrous gravity, and was quite likely to elevate his
nose and his, voice during our psalmody with plain-
tive, soul-harrowing howls; he would pit-pat through
the aisles, and trot up and down the pulpit stairs,
making the most of the larger liberty of animals.'
Deacon Rotterdam  disliked this dog: he wouldn't
stay put, he wouldn't be quiet, and he bore down
upon him horsewhip in hand; the lash overreached;
but bringing up his corps de reserve--his Sunday
boot-he sent him yelping, not out at the door, but
in hiding behind the old gray skirt he knew he was
always a welcome puppy to couch upon. She was
an elderly maiden was the owner, and her dog was
dear to her; she rose with puffed-out cheeks and
fiery eyes glaring, and calling her injured pet over
her shoulder, snapping her fingers and puckering her
lips to say, "Pink,- Pink!"  As she reached the
door, Pink, close at her heels, she faced about, and
jerked her chin at the deacon, who was awaiting her
exit, with elbows squared and a ducked-in head, like
a determined rhud-turtle, and exclaimed in an aggra-
vated undertone, brought low by respect to the
church, and concentrated. by rage at its officer,
"Kick a daag, will ye! and a deacon, tu;" and so
slamming the door she seemed to shake off the dust
from her feet, for she never came to sit among us in
heavenly places again. The Revere1 % metheus
akepeace mildly reasoned with his official upon his
overt acts, "interrupting the service," distracting the
people, giggling tle children, "'twas throwing words

THE SWEET SINGERS OF ISRAEL.        35
away," for "the deacon .still would have his will,"
and answered:
"There's no use in dogs going to -meeting ; if they
don't keep away, I'll lick 'em." We have gone on
singing our hymns in our own fashion-, Sunday after
Sunday, up in our choir, for years and- years. No
ong has thought of invading our hallowed precincts,
or calling us to account for our doings. When we
acquitted ourselves well, the congregation' would
smile blandly into their. hymn-books, approbatively
beating time ; and when by any unlucky accident a
tune got warped in our handling, they only made wry
faces, sometimes going -so far as to cast reproachful
glances at the red curtain ; but upon the whole, they
looked up to us kindly, and respected our perform.-
ances.  But during all these speeding years there
had been perfecting and maturing, among the majes-
tic old trees of down-east Maine, a tall, lank Yankee,
whose enterprise brought him one summer to refresh
the dwellers of Merry Bank with the light of his re-
markable presence. Squiirmwell was his name, and he
and his equally tall and lank wife, did not approve
our psalmody.  Soon our true and tried adherents
began to fall off, one by one. Faint whispers reached
our ears, that somebody had told somebody else, that
his brother's wife said that her uncle's mother-in-law
had heard Judge Ashcroft say in the post-office that
our music was behind the times ; and that Mr. Squirm
well agreed with him that it did seem to be "dread-
ful run deown, that's a fact, jest as true as you liver
judge !-principal voices getting thin-and for my


36      THE SWEET SINGERS OF ISRAEL.
part, I don't think no great shakes of a flute in church,
no way. Never had one in Shebunck, where I come
from. I led the singin' there myself."
As the new member was pretty busy heading com-
mittees, blazing away at temperance meetings, and
making himself, as-old Father Toplofty said, " amazing'
conspicious everywheres," displaying ardent zeal, and
also,,somewhiles, " the Roman infirmity of boasting ;"
and his wife was quite as rampagious in her way,
taking an active part in female prayer-meetings, as
well as occasionally elevating her voice in promiscu-
ous assemblies, in face of St. Paul's express prohibi-
tion--we were at little loss to trace to its direct source
the spreading disaffection.
Before many months, Mr. and Mrs. Squirmwell be-
came, by hook or crooks members of our choral
body, he-executing the tenor, and she fending her
vocal organs for the embellishment of the soprano.
Though her rendering of the "neows and theous,"
was a little prominent on the high notes, still .e ac-
cepted their services, and considered them helps in a
general way ; in short, we looked upon their incursion
with as much favor as could reasonably be expected
be shown to " new uns" by old incumbents. But
alas!1 we found ere, long to our cost that we were
somewhat in the position of the youngusband, who
-complamed to his father-in-law that his wife wouldn't
be mistress of her own hooe-
Oh yes, she will, I guess, Ben, if you'll let her,"
replied the old gentleman,

THE SWEET SINGERS OF ISRAEL.     37

"No, she won't, darn her;! "- rejoined the tried
spouse.  "I tell you, .dad, she's determined to be
master !
While our new stone church was in process of
building, our choir were busy, after the manner of all
choirs from time immemorial, talking and whispering
in corners and by-places about the seats to be as-
sumed by particular individuals; each claiming pre-
cedence of somebody,; each stoutly declaring that he.
or she wouldn't sing a note at any price, unless cer-
tain coveted positions could be theirs, allotted beyond
all doubt or question. Some of our body -carried
their grievances to our minister, but he, like a wise
and prudent pastor as he is, kept carefully aloof from
all expression of opinion, intrenching himself behind
"hums !" and " ah indeeds ! " as behind a wall.
One Saturday evening at rehearsal, we were all
quietly deposited behind the red curtain, except the
Squirmwells.  Henry named "Antioch " as the
"morsel" for practice, and the little bustle caused by
the rustling of our singing-book leaves, as we found-the
page, had subsided. We all sat erect with our fore-
fingers raised, and our lips in position to send.forth
the "Joy," as soon as the clear ringing of the chor-
ister's flute should herald it, when an uplifted voice
in our rear proclaimed in accents so purely Yankee,
that no throat in Merry Bank, except a Squirmwell,.
could by -any possibility utter them.
"'You'll hef to move along deown there ; my wife
don't set in no seat in this gallery but the top seat."

Y
.        Y


38     27E SWEET SINGERS OF SIRAEL.T                            SIG

All heads were instantly turned with this startling
announcement, and- all mouths were a shade wider
open than before with astonishment. There, to corro-
borate the valiant assertion of her wedded lord, stood
the female Squirmwell, in all the dignity of a new
spring bonnet,. note-book in hand, quite ready and
willing to, speak for herself. Directly before Carlotta
the imposing figure reared its majestic height, "with
head.uplift and eyes' that sparkling blazed," but as
our little sister " showed no symptoms " of retiring,
the forefinger of the determined intruder pushed sig-
nificantly her plump shoulder.
"What do you want?"' coolly inquired Carlotta.
"Please set alongdeown."
What for, pray?"
So'st I can get in."
"Impossible ! when I am thy captive, talk of chains,
proud boasting cherub," was the reply .delivered in
perfect sobriety, and a soft, quiet voice, which pro-
yoked smiles from her neighbors, and entirely non-
plussed Mrs. Squirmwell. As 'she was not able to
shove out the speaker, however much she would have
 liked to do it, she wheeled about, and espying a va-
cancy at the end of the bass row, she slid into it.
"Never mind then ; this'll be head neow; he, he!"
Her husband responded with a confirmatory
"putty good, ho, ho !" and'removing her gloves with
perfect aplomb, the lady turned with easy grace to me,
who was looking on in mute wonder to see how she
was making herself as much at home under our vine

und fig-tree, as she could have done' in the distant
'forests of her native wilds.
"What page is it, Sereny ? Oh I see ; tew thutty-
tew, ahem-m-m ! "  She had ample time to clear
her tuneful throat, because I grieve to add that Henry
so far forgot his dignity as chorister, as to fall back
in his official chair, and laugh so long and so loud,
'"that it looked doubtful whether his lips could ever
again pucker sufficiently to meetthe embouchure of
his instrument. He stopped at last, though, as did we
all, Carlotta included, whom this episode more in-
tensely tickled than any of us. If Mrs. Squirmwell
had known the little woman as I know her, I think.
she would have assumed a less boastful front. Carlotta
is quite apt to pay her debts, and I for one felt that
the newly acquired headship would prove no sine-
cure to its proud incumbent. You ought to have seen
Squirmwell swing into the tune, swaying his lank body
about like a rock-maple in a: high wind; and heard
him render the consoling words, " Kamfurt the we-
ack ; drei thur taares" swelling and dying away in up
and down strokes, like a writing-master's best flour-
ishes. He rejoiced as a strong man who runs a race.
I did not mention this little matter to you, my
readers, because it is especially devotional-I don't
for an instant pretend that it is'; nor was our Saturday-
night rehearsal particularly promotive of worship in
our Sunday orisons-but only to show you that we of
the choir in the Merry-Bank stone church were after all
much like our neighbors.: no worse-not much better.

THE SWEET SINGERS - OF ISRAEL,   39

I
r


1

/

HENR Y'S FIRST GUkeST.'

CHAPTER III.

HENRY'S FIRST GUEST.

HAVE in my mind's eye a self-asserting lady,
who has had considerable to say first and last
about-" gala days-;'' but she was never at the
Red Cottage, and consequently can-form no adequate
conception of real gala days, such as we enjoyed. that
summer when Kitty Clayton was with us, making glad
our' earts by her joyous presence.
I -must tell you how it came- about. The child's
father was one of those migratory merchants, who do
business in New Orleans, passing six or seven months-
of each year among the mosquitoes and alligators, and
the remainder in the North ; really living nowhere:
keeping their families in some quiet nook, often the
old homestead, and snatching brief intervals of do-
mestic. pleasure with them--enough- to kep their
hearts- warm, or make them sore, in the dreary inter-
val of enforced absence.
Paul Clayton's wife died while he was worrying his

brain, taxing his energies, to make more money; and
he dropped his uncompleted enterprises, and hurried
home to Roaring River to find his hearthstone cold
and. his dwelling empty, ; nothing left,, except the
memory of household joys, of which she was the cen-
tre and source ; and, hopes made almost certainties
by the full assurance with which she had clung, to
them. Oh yes, h ehad something left-alittle Mother-
less girl, who had been his plaything and pet, but of
whose needs for culture or care he had not the re-
motest conception.; all that had been his wife's prov-
ince. She was lying in the dead-house now, awaiting
him in her coffin.
He -took a look at the rigid face, which had not a
smile for him. It seemed strange, so strange that his
heart ached, and he could not help a shiver at the
thought that her delicate limbs were cased in ice, and
the kiss he took from the. frozen lips sent a dumb
chill through him as if her- death had deadened his
life. He, shut up the rooms to their -resounding
emptiness ; locked the great hall-door, and never un-
locked it again ; indeed, he sold the place afterwards
to the Captain Slocum who married. Dulcet Petti-
bone ; and after placing poor little Kitty at school,
he went wearily back to his cotton press, a lonely,
disappointed nan. He had been planning and work-
ing for a' future - to be enjoyed in his native town,
which he loved for its . beauty and its 'associations,
with the wife for whom ie forswore the.society of all
other women.

U

I

I

4'


42        HENRY'S FIRST GUEST.

"Only one year more, dearest," said he, when he
kissed her at the gate, that last autumn leave-taking.
"gOnly one year more," he repeated to himselfas he
drove away, still watching. the slender figure, and
noting the sudden' dropping of the pretty head into
the clasped' hands. He-knew how fast the tears were
falling.-tears which had been bravely kept back, that'
he might remember her last look in his face, a smiling
one. " Only one year more," and. these miserable
partings will be over forever. And they were over
vt forever, and his labors vanity and vexation of spirit;
out of his great wealth he could only build a marble
tomb to hold her coffin. Though his name had syl-
labled itself in the dying breath from her faithful lips,
he was not there to catch the sound, which melted into
thin air, and was lost. Nothing but blank emptiness
left out of all his magnificent projects, his great ex-
pectations. But what of it ? hundreds of such for-
lorn and chilly hearts are-beating funeral marches all-
around us.
" Clayton. has lost his wife," said a gentleman at
the.St. Charles dinner-table, when the news reached
New Orleans..
" Yes ; poor fellow ! so i hear;" and that was all,
though it is probable that some of the diners sent
home a thought of dread among their own lares and
penates. The' clatter of knives and forks went on;
the political, argument was renewed, the last opera
discussed; nobody.had sympathy to waste; all had
their fortunes - to achieve, many with just such mo.

tives as had pushed forward the widowed man they
were discussing -so carelessly, and all pressed on in
the eager chase.
Paul Clayton too plodded on as usual. He had no
especial incentive for changing his habits. It seemed
much the same to him where he dined and slept ; life
had got narrowed to extremely meagre limits-
little daily treadmill in which he mechanically
wrought ; and if his face grew paler and more worry
and weary, he neither asked nor expected sympathy.
Kittyhad never left Madame Devereaux's establish-
ment in all the ten years which had elapsed since she
was written motherless. She *had no near relations,
her father being the last of the Claytons, and her
mother an orphan. The Roaring River folks, the
Bradshaws and Walsinghams, their old neighbors,
paid her a few visits, and desired to fetch her away
with them, but Madame declined to permit an absence
unwarranted by her guardian, .and the child herself
shrank from them as strangers. Her father though
he lavishly supplied her with money, whia she as
lavishly spent upon her whims and those of her
school-mates, had 'ceased to express much fondness
for his daughter in his infrequent calls ; and though
she never forgot the old days of sweet petting, she
left off expecting much, being one of those good little
souls who drop easily into any niche, and accommo-
date themselves to the inevitable. As she had no
opportunity to measure her papa by;other papas,
she accepted him as the general type of all father-

1 ENR Y'S FIRST GUEST.      :3


\.     HENRY'S FIRST GUEST.

hood, and his silence and reserve did not prevent her
loving him truly, though it lost him a glance into the
rich book of her affections, of which he never saw a
leaf turned.
A direct and urgent appeal -from Henry to Paul
Clayton, his old friend, had effected this summer's
release, and it was almost a happen so, because his
meeting her at Madame Devereaux's was purely acci~ /
dental. Going thither to place a ward (Henry has
lots of wards of all sorts and sizes), he chanced to see
Kitty on her pony ; and her sweet, childish face, and
her equestrian grace, led him to inquire her name.
He was utterly astonished to find her a daughter of
the fellow he used to call "leetle Paul ; " and after a
pleasant study of the fair maid, he desired to have
her at the Red Cottage for, a season. Perhaps it was
because he had known her parents, that Kitty's heart
warmed toward the stranger;.or it might have been
because he was nice, and kind, and genial ; but at
any rate, she was glad to come away in his corppany
-glad, even amidst the sorrow of turning her back
upon the familiar faces ; and-she alighted among us
one bright day like a merry sunbeam.
Carlotta and I left everything to watch her. It
seeded almost as if we were fifteen again, while we
listened to tales of school-frolics "about the girls,"
about the parlor nights, and the horrid old Made-
moiselle who called names in French she dared 'not
utter in English, when she gut in a passion. We
followed Kitty's dancing progress among our flowers;

IR NRY'S FIRST GUEST.

out in the orchard ; we showed her the pigs and
chickens, and gathered for her whole'apronfuls of
tulips and daffadowndillies, and Carlotta crucified her
affections, in that she plucked a handful of her best
and newest roses, which she offered to the guest as
at a shrine. She was as sweet and natural as a
peach-blossom. All the polishing-at Madame Dev-
ereaux's finishing establishment for young ladies--
French, German, music, and everything extra-could
not spoil Kitty. It was as much labor thrown away
as t polish a white lily. She came from the hand
of the good God so pure and perfect-so good and
gentle-so overflowing with tenderness and dear
love, that she could not be harmed by the most elab-
orate system of boarding-school training in the vorld.
She dropped into our quiet, country habits as easily
as if she had been born under our roof-tree. We
were never tired of watching her slight figure flitting
about the old place, getting mirth, and amusement,
and occupation out of everything.  She followed
Henry down among the pear-dwarfs, carrying on her
plump arm his label-basket, and poking plenty of
fun at his dilapidated garden hat, and rusty old coat,
which Carlotta had long ago christened the "Peck-
sniffian costume." She watched the process 'of
budding the young, straight, lithe trees, slender and
vigorous, like her own elastic youth, with the pret-
tiest little puckered-up, dimpled mouth, - and the
busiest eyes imaginable. Even Mrs. Ramble took to
her. Mrs. Ramble-saidshe was a "real likely little

4

t


HENRY'S FIRST GUEST.

creator," and  told her upon her first visit that it
would be a pity if such a nice, white skin should be
scorched all up in everlasting torment, and exhorted
her to get religion right away, and enforced her
preachment with an encouraging stanza from her
favorite hymn:
"Behold the hardened sinner goes,
Laden with guilt and heavy woes,
Down to the regions of thedead,
With endless curses on his head I
The dust returns to dust again;
The soul in agonies of pain
Ascends to Heaven, not there to dwell,
But hears her doom and sinks to Hell/ "
As she sing-songed the time-honored rhymes,
w hout taking her eyes off the blooming face, it
naturally blanched a little under the Christian admo-
n ion. We are told that there is a time for every-
thing under the sun ; but Mrs. Ramble recognized
all times as opportunities for talking goodie, goodie,
which she called "laboring in the vineyard."     She
brought her knitting and -spent the day, soon after
Kitty came ; though she announced, a     she dropped
her old bonnet with the horse-hair eve lastings upon
the floor beside her, "that she      couldn't stay a
second, hardly."
We always expect to see Mrs. Ramble's rusty
bombazine at an early period, when new guests
arrive at the Red Cottage; with the inevitable blue
sock she .is always footing for the truckman, and

46 .-

HENRY'S FIRST GUEST.            47
,which, like Penelope's weaving, never seems any
nearer completion. She says she " allus thinks it is
jest as pleasant to visit folks when they've got com-
pany, 'cause then she feels as if she warn't puttin' on
'em out any;   n' as they've got to be sprigged up
all the while, and have lots of little notions on hand
to eat."
Mrs. Ramble professes vehemently to despise
creature-comforts, and being one of those " cold-
potato Christians," whose religion consists in attend-
ing all sorts of meetings, travelling from house to
house, and exhorting to reform, especially in any
pleasure she is incapacitated to partake of, her family
have very few opportunities for experiencing any sur-
feit of home enjoyments.
Mrs. Squirmwell also approved of Kitty. She came
and hugged her, and asked her divers questions, read
,a chapter with her, invited her to join her Sunday-
school class, and told her Mr. Squirmwell wanted' to
have her "come deown teown and take a dish of tea
along of him "-we expected her also, because she
drops her piety about promiscuously as- an ostrich
does her eggs-and I laughed when Kitty came and
said, 4"Oh Serena ! what an awful good woman 1"


CHAPTER IV.

" WHERE THE BEE SUCKS THERE LURK I."
T is now several summers since we brought
dur flower-garden to a -reasonable state of
perfection, and being sure that it could hold
no more " battle giants," "lady's delights," Baltimore
Belles, or " parroquettes," we of the Red Cottage
naturally bethought ourselves, that a few bee-hives
would have an agreeable effect, scattered about among
the low-branched apple-trees, besides paying us
nobly with frequent caps of delicious honey.
Kit North-peace to his ashes !--has said, "what
is a cottage without bees ?" we, being fully of his
opinion, decided in full conclave that a colony should
be forthwith invited to domesticate themselves in our
Arcadia, or, in other words, that we would brain them
home and force them to stay as the Sabines did their
wives so many years ago, when our old world was

3

If

"WHERE THE BEE SUCKS THERE L URK I."
young, and no " manuals of politeness " or " eti-
quette of courtship " had been issued, before Carleton
had got out the " Habits of Good Society."
We selected to receive them .one of the greenest,
shadiest spots in our whole domain, and erected:t ere
a little temple dedicated to the Hivites ; not an of
those pig-headed old heathen who were always giv g
the descendants of Abraham so much trouble, cau
ing them- to "pitch " here and there among the hills
of Canaan, to the imminent risk of their patriarchal
necks, but the industrious workers in wax of the
tribe of Apis, who also number amongst them, as we
found to our cost before summer ended, Hitites of
the surest and most unerring aim.
Our new ornaments looked so pretty and pictur-
esque, so neat and white, showing above the green
grass, and the busy inhabitants commenced to ply
their trade from the very first with so much briskness
and alacrity, flying hither and thither, with a sooth-
ing, droning sing-song; saluting the apples-blossoms,
diving into the honeysuckles, sipping at the violets,
winging their way in select parties from successful
excursions, filled with sweetness, loaded with yellow
wax, that notwithstanding. we got inkling of some
stormy debates going on in the house, of which we
lobby-members failed to catch the significance, we
still maintained a high state of satisfaction, and began
already Barmecidially to enjoy the flavor of the deli-
cate morsels we intended to roll under our tongues,
and we beheld (also Barmecidially) great. masses of


50 "WHERE THE BEE -SUCKS THERE LURK I."
melting nectar upon the table, neighbored by Car-
lotta's wondful biscuits, wherewith we meant to
delectate ourselves and our friends.
We were never tired of watching their labors, and
purchased "Bevan on the Bee" and divers authors
on the same topic, and studied them sedulously;
found out all the curious habits of the family of Apis,
how they lick and otherwise train up their young
Queens - as a mother puss does her kitten. Car-
lotta said that if some queens we read about got;
more lickings in their childhood, their subjects would
have better times under their reigns, probably,
Henry made an especial journey to Toptown, that he
might order a copy- of the wonderful old Antwerp
book, 1648, entitled the-" Spring of the Honey Fly,"
and also the more venerable essay which is traced
back to the age of Democritus, 46o years before
Christ, called the "Portrait of the Honey Fly,"
showing how bees are "bred from the purest juice ex-
haled from flowers in summer," and describing the
superior or King bee as springing from a blossom
more noble than _common flowers, and also noticing
the second king of a season, as a false king or truant,
calling him the usurping prince who plays the flute
to divert the bees; and before long Carlotta and
Henry sided off into factions, one swearing by Huber
and.the other quoting Huish, and after the fashion
of all intense people riding hobbies, they..waxed
warm in argument, and used more interjections than
areadmissible in polite society.

" WHERE THE BEE SUCKS THERE LURK       ." 5
Carlotta also hunted up poetic scraps bearing upon
her new fancy, and recited-
"My banks they are'furnished with bees,
Whose murmgs Wwite me to sleep."
To wnich Henry added, How doth the little busy"
-and we squinted a good deal under the corners
of the hive, and through the glass windows, in
hope to get a view of- the imperial majesty who
queens it right royally over her subjects.
It is true 'Carlotta sometimes scolded concerning
the sad havoc these Hymenoptera made amongst
her flower-pets, tearing the delicate blossoms quite
to rags, opening prematurely the, rose-buds, pulling
off the Turk's caps ; but Henry opened a discourse on
a "garrulous Honey Eater," so named on account of
its singularly talkative propensities, and remarked
reflectively that it was really curious how well she
answered its description. "The coloring of this bird
is sober, but pleasing, the top of its head is black, the
face dun, brown, and the eyes deep hazel."
Carlotta replied that to'be a bee or not to be a
bee was a question she should settle in her next
metempsychosis, taking comfort in.the fact that it is
the females alone who are able to sting their enemies:
Our Hivites wre in the main good-natured. If
we ventured "too lose, they would-dart .out with an
admonitdry "phiz "-and sometimes Jim, our big
Maltese, cat, woul come prancing across the iooms;

11


(,

52n" WHERE THE BEE SUCKS THERE LURK I."
through the door upon the floor, spitting and growl-
ing over his shoulder at his winged pursuers, rolling
over and over and pawing his ears; then we said
quietly to-each other:
"Poor Jim! the bees are after him."
As midsummer approached, and the sun poured
down hot and-hotter, and their corps of fanning-mills
could not keep the hive cool, it became quite another
affair; none of us could go near the hive, but half a
score of angry workers of the "K.m. dm Ghallager "
persuasion would pounce upon us, their stings in
battle array ; evidently the mandate had been buzzed
out by the licked Queen, "sting 'em-settle 'em "-and
we learned to keep at a respectful distance from their
quarter, in our walks around our half acre, and we
much sympathized with the torments of the mis-
guided cat, who could not leave them alone.
One hot day in July-the hottest of the season-I
was busily collecting the materials for building a
double-decker apple-pie, and thinking of the cool
spring where the Persian Prince filled his drinking-
cup-in the leafy wood, and of the little ripples around
the bank which musically kept time to the sportive
splashes of "Nymphs bathing," in a picture I was
fond of up at the Quince Bush, and wishing for a
Russian ice-palace, or a little Esquimaux snow-hut,
or--when Carlotta rushed in, trowel in hand;.and
quiteout of breath.  ---
"For gracious sake ! " she burst out, "do run!"
"What is the matter? " I inquired, pushing the pie

" WHERE THE BEE SUCKS THERE LURK 1." 53
into the cupboard. "Is the toll-gate on fire, the
canal running out, or is Mrs. Ramble coming to spend
the day?"
"Nothing of the sort!" she replied, gesticulating
frantically, with the earth-stained implement she
held ; "the bees are swarming!"
"Oh, is that all; I am delighted. to hear it; I'll
finish my double-decker and take a look at them."
"But I tell you the ungrateful wretches, the
Huishites, are making for the woods !-we are going
to lose the whole posse, and their name is legion!" 
"No, no, that won't begin to do," said I, hurriedly
restoring the much vexed pie to its seclusion ; " we
must stop them ; we will distract them with discord-
ant sounds, which they cannot bear ; hard noises
mix their wits. That was not the original -reason,
though, why tin pans were used in pursuing vagrant
honey-flies-you see the Anglo-Saxons had a law
that any person going ott of the highway into pri-
vat. property without blowing a horn was liable to
punishment, but as--"
"Well, Serena, to hear you ambling on with your
honey-flies .and horns, when the pestilent bees are
making tracks, verily you let your moderation be
known to all men."
"I had to wash my hands of the double-decker;
but I am through now." There they were, sure
enough ! "thicker than the 'autumnal leaves which
strew the brooks in Vallombrosa," and heading, as
well as I could make out, for Gully Brook, and the

*


54 -"WHERE THE BEE SUCKS THERE LURK Z"
dim wild-wood, as fast as their gauzy wings could
carry them. So I ran out and hailed a promiscuous
boy who happened to be looking over the garden
fence close to the waxen lilies, so close, in fact, that
one dirty paw was pushed through the pickets in the
act of grasping the stalk of a fair  er. I promised
him a basket of early apples, ditt of pears, and a fist-
ful of roses, if he would run. u  to Henry's office
with the important'intelligence. Then Carlotta and
I armed ourselves with a great basin apiece, and an
iron spoon, with which we outdid the gongs on a'
Joss day, and gave chase to the recreant host. It
became evident that the Queen was of the "new-de-
parture " party, and was determined to found a king-
dom of her own, all under the greenwood tree ; all-
our drumming and shouting were of no avail. They
soared al9ft, a solid phalanx of. buzzing wings; they
would not be persuaded by otir musical performances;
they were deaf to the voice of the charmers.
Luckily, before we were quite' melted, Carlotta
bethought herself to throw cold water on their plans,
and she turned- the whole force of the hydraulic ram
among them. This caused a panic, and. the Queen
ordered a halt in a branch of an apple-tree to con-
sider the situation. By the time Henry arrived they,
were all there ; the branch was black with them,
hanging, they only knew how, one, from another.
We brought out our best hive, rubbed it well with
sweet thyme, as Bevan advises insuch a case ; that is,
I did it, while the Hubers and uishites were disput-
uIhtswrelipt

"WHERE -THE BEE SUCKS THERE LURK I." 55
ing over the proper herb to use, one insisting on
majoram, and the other asserting that sage was the
only rubber. Our "patent glass ventilated" being
duly placed on a table under the tree, the next step
was to persuade the Hymenoptera to descend and
take possession.
" Now, .then,- Henry ! " said Carlotta, her arms
akimbo, expectantly. "Now, then, run under and
give them  a shake, and there we are all safe."
" Hui-yes, all safe, of course, that is the proper
course to take; but you see the rascals always sting a
fellow without mercy," replied he, squinting doubt-
fully up at the pendant kingdom. He had taken the
precaution to protect his'face with a long green veil
tied around the brim of his stove-pipe, and which
draped fantastically about his masculine shoulders,
ludicrously out of keeping with his office-coat, etc.,
and had incased his hands in gloves. { Urged by the
impatient Carlotta, he rushed desperately in, and giv-s
ing the loaded limb a quick shiver, down they came,
not as we hoped, in solid content, housed and homed
in their .inverted hive;' but a buzzing, surging, an ry
mass, "a gust of rugged wings," even to the middle
bee, the centre -of the community. The outsiders
quickly detached themselves, and gave us chase, with
a suddenness and precision of purpose which fully
avouched their resolution to do and die.
Obeying Lady Macbeth's directions to her guests,
e stayed not upon the order of our going we-went:
at once, running like mad, fighting unseen foes,


56 "WHERE THE BEE SUCKS THERE LURK I"
striking out blindly at our pursuers, dodging the
smoke-house, circling round the hop-poles, like happy
peasants on a May day:. Henry, leaving a keepsake
of his green veil on every bush and twig which claim-
ed such token, fill a greedy buck-thorn took ,the
remainder,. hat and all included, leaving his head ex=
posed to the enemy, and showing his eyes- in fine
frenzy rolling. In and out, and around about, we
fought and raced and plunged and scampered, taking
refuge at last down cellar among the apple-bins and
cider-barrels, and even there one or two followed us.
Jim was close at our heels, green-eyed and enormous ;
whether he believed us out on a midsummer-mad
frolic, or appreciated the situation, he kept pace with
our erratic flights, and jumped the last ditch-pork-
barrel ahead of us all.
We did not see each other clearly for many days,
and disposed as soon as possible of our sticky pets to
a bee-master, who could impunibly lift the wretches
by the handful Huber and Huish were shelved, and
we walked where we liked, without the danger of
trespassing on Tommy Tiddler's ground and finding
TQmmy Tiddler at home.

4

-I

CHAPTER V.

LORD FEIGNING'S DAUGHTER.

VERYBODY is liable to change of opinions;
and I have observed that where once a hobby
has been trotted into a life, it is pretty sure
to amble insinuatingly, back at intervals, although
kicked out ever so ignominiously.
Carjotta declared some while ago that she couldn't
abide bees ; she would never again harbor the unpleas-
ant, pilfering, vindictive wretches about the place ; but
she was the very one to-propose restoring the hives.
She said she missed the honey from her cakes, the
spiced metheglin from her drinks, the wax front her
stores. I privately. think she missed the pleasant
occupation of watching the workers, and their- dron-
ing sing-song from her-summer music; at any rate
the reinstatement of the Apis family under our trees
was a thing accomplished, through the medium of
a newspaper, the very summer of Kitty Clayton's
coming. Carlotta read one morning in a_" Courant,'
8*

"WI N


9

LORD FEIGNING'S DAtIGHTER.

which somehow found its way to our breakfast table,
that a " small swarm of bees, enough for seed, was
recently sent by mail from Lancaster.to Washington.
The.means employed for their transit was a block of
wood, about six inches in length, four inches wide and
an inch and a quarter thick. Four holes, an inch in
circumference, were bored through the block with ax
auger, in each of which were confined a queen bee
and half a dozen workers, the germ of a colony. Each
end of the orifice was protected by a wire screen,
affording ventilation; the postage amounted to
twenty-one cents.  Instantly, Carlotta was fired
with enthusiasm to get such a nucleus from Lancas-
ter, and wrote that very day to Washington for infor-.
mation. She got it ; and before we had really made
up our minds to a repetition of our well-remembered,
annoyances, behold Tommy Tiddler was at home
once more, and Huber and Huish in full blast again.
The auger-hole family was neighbored by half a dozen
households in swinging hives, all as busy as bees.
The tribe dwelling under the strawberry apple threat-
ened to swarm, and, we were sitting with Kitty, as
near as safe to them, armed with tin utensils and
porridge sticks in order to anticipate .any disposition
they might show pour prendre congs, when Henry
came' quickly down the garden-path, his veil in one'
hand, and an open letter in the other. I observed
that the serenity of his usually benign countenance
was somewhat clouded under a mist of perplexity.
"Oh, by the way, girls," he commenced, apropos

LORD FEIGNING'S -DA UGHTER.

59-

to nothing, and leaving, in the midst of a' bar, the
doleful tune he was humming-he is always hum-
ming a tune, and we discern his moods by the plain-
tive or uproarious melodies he makes choice of-
"oh, girls,- Belle Brandon is coming to make us that
visit very soon."
"Us!" exclaimed Carlotta; "speak for yourself,
Mr. Gorton, if you please ; you invited 'her, and
though I shall not follow the fashion of a lady I
know, who locks up the' china and -stores when her
husband has guests; and bids him entertain them as
he can, I mean you shall have all the trouble as
well as pleasure of'the job you have planned."
4" Now, Carlotta, do not be unpleasant ; I wish
you had a husband to keep you in order ; I could
give him a few hints "-he went on pretending 'not
to hear her running commentary, "Bachelors' wives,
etc."-" No woman- should lock up my - china
twice. I certainly shall do -my. best to make our
pleasant old home agreeable to the coming lady. I
can't make puddings and pies; I've got some prec-
ious little women-folks. who excel in that vocation,
fortunately. This girl comes of a good family-the
Vernon Brandons, you know ; and she is an uncom-
monly stylish, attractive: person, one whose stay you
will find pleasurable, if you do not incase yourself in
foolish prejudice beforehand, woman-fashion-have
all your opinions prejudged. Her form is fair, fqr
plastic nature worked with pleasure on her stature,
and sI e is as bright as a button."

.

is


LORD FEIGNING'S DAV'GHITER.

Although Henry replied quietly, I saw he was
nettled at Carlotta's mischievous, unbelieving face;
and I.would have made an effort to suppress herif I
had not known, from long experience, that it was a
thing impossible. If I ever trod on her toes, hoping
to stop a speech, she would turn on me and say,
"Now what do you mean, Serena, by stepping on
my corns? You know quite well that I never learned
the deaf and dumb language of the feet;" and so
bring me to open confusion. And, therefore, I cut
inrather uncivilly with a common-place remark
"Quite true, Henry; as you say a remarkably
i ce family. Three brothers came over with Wil-
liam the Conqueror, and landed on Bunker Hill in
the ' Mayflower,''where their descendants have lived
ever since on the top of the Monument-taking care
of the Beacon light-and I, for one, shall be im-
mensely glad to see this merinber of it. I only hope
she won't be a t1-ifle, just a trifle-a hint of a tint of.
a shadow of a shade out of place amongst as unvar-
nished folks."a
I glanced somewhat ruefully up at'the old Red Cot-
tage which snugged itself cosily enough, it is true,
amongst its roses and posies and-greenery, but which
was all corners and odds and ends, with its wood-
house and well-house and dilapidated old barn,
where the soft-soap was stowed away side by side
with the garden-tools; and where Henry's Peckspif.
ran costume fluttered from a ruty spike, agitated by
each "wi'stlin wind,"

"We can eat the stylish creature well enough, but
the puzzle is, where we are to sleep lher,' said Car-
lotta; "of course the arks she calls trunks will gorge
the spare chamber, and certes she must abide among
them, or share the pig-pen with Willie Winkie."
"Most assuredly she, shall be put in the spare
chamber; that point admits of no, discussion,", re-
plied Henry, with extreme promptness.
Now we have but two, guest places in the Red
Cottage: one, of them small, low, plain, with furni-
ture vhich has been there always ; the other, named
"Blue Corner," a fanciful boutade of Henry's, and
always devoted to his choicest friends. Of course,
Kitty Clayton inhabited it at present, and her pretty
belongings adorned it, and her dainty trifles scattered
about it pleased me mor than the primrnest order.
It is built in an odd angle,.finished quite up to the
high-peaked roof, and the ceiling is curiously frescoed
with, tropical flowers on a deep-blue ground. A
little Egyptian lamp, which Henry broughtback
whenhe let his beard grow, and went lotus-eating
swings from an azure cord in the centre, where all
the carved beams meet. In one corner stands a
Pompeian brasier, which in summer serves as vase to
great flower-bunches, and winter, for burnngthe
odorous cones of the cucumber-tree, of whose sei
perfume Carlotta.-is exceeding foid.  The narrow
pointed windows are hung with blue damask_ and
white lace; the carpet is a magical sprinklig ofpa
golden corn-poppies upon an azure bed;:and the

f     +

6o

LORD , FEIGNING'. DA UGHTER.

k


LORD FEIGNING'S DAUGHTER.

dainty furniture of clear, curly maple, so finely, deli-
cately coigred, that the bunches of painted field-
flowers scattered over them seen floating on a bed
of liquid amber. Henry suffers none but. pretty
maids to inhabit the Blue Corner ; masculine habili
ments have never desecrated its hallowed precincts;
masculine snores have never resounded within its
-delicious interior,
Kittyhad listened to our debate with a in pan in
her lap ready for action, in which Jim lay 'circularly
icoled,, his Maltese tail softly waving, and his eyes
blinking at the birds who were- restless fluttering in
and out of their rustic habitation at the top of a hop
pole hard by the smoke-house.
"Dearest people," said she, "please tell me some-
thing: who is Belle Brandon, and why do you make
such a coil about her coming? I hope you did not sit
in familycouncil over me in such a dreadful fashion.
If I thought it, .I would want to go away directly."
Indeed, but we did then," replied Carlotta quite
candidly, "'and I assure you I much dreaded the in-.
troduction.'of a boarding-school miss into our quiet
house. Henry, it is true, painted the pretty child in
glowing hues, but Henry sometimes blunders where
Women are in question ; all is gold that glitters, to his
eyes, as witness this. Saratoga belle of many seasons
he is about to quarter upon us. There! don't curl
your sweet lip, honey; You are my own darling, my
comfort, my blessing. He did not blunder that once,'
but wrought by inspiration thrice inspired."

Carlotta punctuated each epithet with a kiss and a
small hug. Kitty's face cleared, and she listened to
the remainder of our confabulation in amused content.
"You see, Kitty, Miss Brandon laid siege to- Hen-
ricus last year at Niagara. I believe she confessed to
a violent impulse to make-a headlong plunge into the
seething current under Goat Island bridge, and was
only restrained from the rash, fatal act by his strong,
manly embrace, and her emotions, poetic, beautiful,
interesting, culminated in a burst of tears on his
shoulder."
"Don't be absurd, Carlotta," cut in Henry in an an-
noyed tone; "luckily we are ckez nous, or you might
give me a reputation. You certainly earn one of dili-
gent spinner of yarns."  Our gardener went easily
n as though her talk had been continuous. "Yes,
the dashing, stylish beauty fished for her man, like St.
Peter; she. angled for an invitation here, ,though
"hy she desires te bury her charms in this out of-the-
way place, I cannot divine. She was bewitching and
Henry was bewitched, and behold the result! a fash-
ionable woman, a hackneyed belle, domesticated in
our old-fashioned corner, where she will be. as much
in keeping as a bird of paradise in a hen-coop: all
our independent ways must be infringed ; our privacy
invaded; we must pick our words, mince, speak
small, trim our motions to manner, be interviewed in
season and out of season, treated to a rehash of re-
-ected lovers for dinner and supper. I shouldn't be
a mite sur ised. if she made a rule to dine at six I

I:

62

LORD FEIGN NG'S -.DA UGHTER.

63

i

_
_    ,       _ _J        "e a_


LORD FEIGNINGS DAUGHTER.

I'd like uncommonly much to have her try it on; and
who is to do the fancy cooking ? She sings, we are
told-look out for squalls about these days; she sits
up-late, of course. I shall shut the house at half-past
nine, just as the clock strikes."
Now look how Carlotta is putting herself in a
nice preparatory fume. You may as well take pa-
tience and, be good-tempered," replied Henry, with
his usual mannish way of finishing a debate,. "She is
coming anyhow. One swallow doesn't make a sum-
mer, but, one will serve to gulp down your wrath.
You will survive her visitamong other shocks of time,
and if you approach the lady in a proper spirit you
will find her a delightful companion. I assure you I
did.":
"Proper spirit!  interjected  Carlotta.  "Ap-
proach the lady!"
"By the foot of Plutarch ! there she blows !" ex-
claimed our lawyer, beating out a ",rum te dum tidi
dum" withhis tin pan and iron spoon, and printing
to a dense body all wings and stings, which was gath-
ering in the air above us. "Strike the cymbals,
ladies, while I take the veil."  Nimbly darting hither
and thither, we forgot the coming guest in the spirit
and variety of his remarkable evolutions and the ab-
sorbing interest of hiving our bees, which we accom-
plished successfully.

CHAPTER VI.
"YOURS TRULY, GEORGE BLAIR."
IME is the nurse and breeder of all events,"
and time brought forth the day of Belle
Brandon's arrival. Carlotta and I had been
stewing ourselves all the morning over the kitchen
stove, getting up custards, tipsy cake, and other
trifles. Kitty had picked and shelled the early tom-
thumbs. Uenry had been diligently churning, his
masculine proportions elegantly draped in a protect.
ing table-cloth, and the never-failing old hat resting
upon his curly pate ; and the longer he wielded the
dasher, the more rakishly it tilted to one side, and
the more ruefully discontented he looked. Our law-
yer hated above all things to be asked to churn; anl
though he rarely refused, he made our lives a bur
den to us by constantly flapping up the lid to insect
probabilities of coming butter, and spattering cream

V^

.£
.l :F    f
4           i
_i   r                      i
-,  ti

64:.

,'",i


(   f "                            w
,'lam    - t+   -            _   }"
_                                          YI
66

clots all over the place, glibly analyzing the lacteal
fluid into 'its constituent elements, so that I was out,
of conceit of the compound, hating to feel that I was
dining and supping off salts and gases. ~The .wry
faces he executed under our jokes were an honor to
his head as well as his heart ; but his help was quite
likely to be as much plague as profit, because he
rarely had patience to await the consummation of his
labor, and we were often obliged to drop whatever
we had in .'hand and complete his unfinished job.
/.As the tall kitchen clock struck elevenour dairyman
'hastily cast off his disguise, as Achilles 'arose from
spinning amongst the women with the first blast
of Ulysses' trumpet; and wiping away theplen-
tifu sprinkling of incipient butter from his cheeks
and beard, he started to array himself for meeting
the guest at the station.
Look here! is that churning done? what o'clock.
is it? " inquired Carlotta from the pantry, where she
was up to her elbows in the fancy cooking shehad
so solemnly abjured.
"Bythe foot of Plutarch [Henry was fond of swear-
ing;Bobadil's'favorite' oath]yIl see no reason why thou
shouldst be so superfluousas to demand the time of
ay; as to the game of rumble-de-thump I shall
play it no longer; you must call in Winnie; I must
away to youth and beauty and;jocund smiles"
And, array edin his  attiest' hat and coat, al.d
carying under his. arm the little }e he cut with hi
owi jack-knife from the cedars'. of Lebanon, he

whisked through the gate, and, sauntered up the
plank-walk, drawing at his gloves, and h untming his
gayest air. He had an uninvited companion' too, in
his walk, because, the moment our Alderney heard
the snap of the wicket, and discovered her master's
voice discoursing mgsic, she trotted after him, beg-
ging, with outstretched neck for the apple he was*
accustomed to bestow. He took her attendance
easily, being well used to it, till he met Bianca Ash-
croft and Jerusha Peacock, who performed screams
of terror at the idea of a little dun sea-cow onthe
sidewalk; and he spoke so sternly to. his petted
favorite, that she stopped short, casting reproachful
glances from her Juno eyes, and finally wheeled
about with a parting .loo, and reti'rned, her head
lowered, brooding evidently upon the mutability of
human friendships, and took her stand by the barn-
door, chewing the cud'of sweet 'and bitter fancies.
When the lumbering old stage stopped at our door,
and Belle Brandon alighted politely assisted by
Henry with the "very Jacob's staff of complimen,"
her magnificent beauty, ripe as he.rvest, had a bewil-
dering charm, which struckeven me, who am not
easily impressed by flesh and blood perfections, and
I fell to studying her blue eyes and blonde curls,
noting how she coolly appropriated her escort'sat
tensions, making no scruple of piling hisa.rs wih
he multitudinous shawlsbags, books, et   also
obsryingliow she exhibit her sharp, hitteethi
fascinating smiles hich setout her dimipleswhen  e

" YOURS TRULY, GEORGE BLAIR."

67

t
"YO (IRS TR UL a , GROZ E .FLAIR.


YOURSS TRUL   GORGE BZR  "     4
was presented to us; though with a' covertly super-
cilous glance at our=calico gowns and heated faces.
She closely scanned Kitty Clayton in her fresh white
: muslin, her smoothly shining hair floating over her
white shoulders, and took instant note of the exquis-
ite chain and ornaments around her neck, and the
blue enamelled watch in her belt, and Etruscan brace-
let,.ffine cutting spanning her small, round'wrists.
While throwing-off her hat and duster in our spare
chamber, where.we politely left her that she might
say her prayers,*arrd render thanks for her safe
voyage, she glanced over the homely furniture with
curling lip_
" An antediluvian old-affair," she muttered, our-
ing some water into the room   basin 'of brown
edgewood which came down to us from our great-
great grandmother, andwhich we prized    above
rubies.  " Well, I wouldn't hae. believed that
Harry Gorton's hone could be such a place as this.
Ye powers!what abedstead! .'Ihope theyprovide
a ladder for.the ascending and'descenlding angels; I,
for one, couldnever scale unheled so'dangerous a
height. It =is indeed a lbfty toerof refuge; and
behold also. wonders of art upon-thewalls'She
burst into.'a realnatural' en ing laugh, as, she
scanned 'my mother's ,     'cvre.   A  weeing
willow berding over a    atone and a neeing
gre beneath: it shadoW' and her:,name-Grace
Srlig-wre     n aelss on the tie.y#419ie4
mar gin;the lines are    y awry  and  hecc rs are

" YOURS TRULY, GEORGE BLAIR."

I

69

peculiar, but there is nothing about the old place we
prize more highly, except the marvellous rug before
the bed of cut rags'sewn with patience into shapesof
impossible- animals, and the counterpane of d locate
quilting, all the work of ,the precious mother i her
sweet youth, before her pretty eyes had lost sight±of
her children. There isn't the least doubt that-the
things are grotesque and queer; in fact,;our meddling
friends do advise their banishment to the garret,.and
Belle Brandon of course knowsnothing of their 'his:
tory-so after all she was not to blame'for he r.laugh,,
Which was at- any rate brimming with mirth, and as
natural a .thing as she aid during her whole 'stay at
the Red Cottage.
" I hope I may be so blessed as to make my stop
short here," said she, drying her dimpled.fingers on
the towel.; ' dare say they mightn't'be ovr'
pleased to know that the visit-is of the:sort vulgarly
called  Jackwat-a-pinch;' I could not afford.to'pay
my board   Aunt Isadore wasgruffuand impractica=
ble, andall my other invitationsame to nothing
see they are not rich butthey are a reteable old
family.2 The Irish.Gortons andtheEglisal  n
dons need not*fear raking up their -antecedeits,..th
fortune. Illtry to make it"payrnesomehow  cha
summer quarters,if noting  r   save my
bring    my good look   AEh howhuny I am.!
these quet county houses?'are famous places for
good eating; I wonder what t
diner."

5 . ,. .

,   -
.                  ;
-


a                                   '

.70

"YOURS TRULY, G4QRGE BLAIR."

Raving performed"her ablutions, the next thing
she did was to draw back theniuslin curtain, and
with a handglass she _took from her travellxg bag,
carefully to inspect.her complexion, fearful of'freckles.
As she turned to the same recetacle fra healing
lotion she believed  remedy for=those beauty-kill
ers, she displacedand knocked down from the dres-
sing;table. a little cigar holder of Campeachy wood,
carved with a Dhole's head. Miss Walsingha;m, of
the Quince Bush, gave it to me, and I thinkishe got
it from.n Craigenfeis. Upon the stem wa's cut in up-
right characters made  brilliant with  carmine=
"Yours truly, George Blair."  The workmanship
was delicate, and the. rich veining. of the, dark wood
,was rare enough to make the trifle a bij9u; but it
was something more which fastened the steely eyes
of the blonde upon it, somethingmore which suffused
er creamy  heeks withaflood of crimson. The
f   is, she had seen the toygbefore, at a very critical
timeihcareer, when se. had been the eve of
mriae with rich old felon  who unselfishly de-
redtoenderherlife happy; andnrete name she
a ig bongedto  g t handsome giantwhom
sh had come as, near to loving aseer she had been
inthe whole of her flirting course. She had bey' ;a
'gil f sxtenthenand he:. anohe wma'shus-
;but tha hd not indered the spadig of
h   er w  and usingall hr hre  to e       i
She failed, however-.signally failed, The .iant was
ue beyond her' power   enmtaon    nd h lost

"YOURS TRULY, GEORGE BLAR."
also the rich husband. She opened a drawer;and
hastily thrust the bauble out of sight.
If I believed in omens," said she, "whiciek-
ily I don't, I should feel sure that ray coming:to this
house was ill-fated. I must find out the history of'
that unpleasant thing, and also the compass and
capacity of the debonairGorton's acquaintance.:I
wonder \if he numbers that blacksmith a umong his
friends  I don't care about going over thosedays,
even in thought; although I make it apoint toinore
all failures .and unlucky occurrences. One fact-is;
patent : I am twenty-seven: -years old; and n'nearer
being married than I was then; not so near, I think
I wouldn't have believed it could have come out so.
I may live to regret not taking old soap-fat,'the
grease collector, whom Aunt Isadore pressed upon
me. How I should like to be sixteen once nmore!_
would try to be good? no, to be'rich-money is tl -
most useful goodness I know. Peradventure there is
some 9ld patty here-I must as ertain.   'ours
truly, George 3lair.' Wha a ha    nidsm felwhie
was-! If there had not been a rpingad misnin
agement somewhere, he must have' been   ffuet
lover-my   olden spouse:' Hweiho! what   ashe'
had!"
Her reflections had not hindered her m inga.
splerid toilette, and now she rustled out throghthe
narrow hall, and glanced inlit the half-open door=of
the Blue Corner whereKityt sway      ca
beck and forth in her-little r kinghair; her ull

'   ...4"j '


"YOWS TALY1, GEORGE BW!?."
Jn  roses and lilies, which she was leisurely ar-
ngigin vases designed for Belle's apartment
hose ro     s thi pray    said the bnde,
zither rudely pushing wide the portal and advancing
u bidden.
"    eine, replied 1 itty pleasantly  isn't it a
beauty?l3lue Cprner we callit. Come ! get down, Jim;
etheadythe arm-chair. I never saw such a cat !
where do youkeep your manners? youwere not taught
inmysehol     eaways rosep before our elder and
rs-hat's right! jump on my bed; now I hope
youfeel qeuitcornf5dtable"
dTheseiadioiitinswere addressed to our big Mal-
tese cat,mho-assistedataall Kitty's occupations, and
Shothughonearythe size of a Marguay, graciously
pitted her to worker sweetwill withi him; hd was
skedb our ,oldfriend Rainbow, and inherited the
paalduble paws,-indomitable courage and ei-
nent' oial qualities, and hadbebrougt tohisi pres-
entheaven ain a hand-basket by Miss Walsinghm, in
,andtearly stake of kitteood arnd 1estowedtpon us
asanesp dal treasure . }-    ;
d ousyabut and a lowering coud of
discontent settled uponhrhnsm    etrs
der handsome features
" itea'leach bowerrally; one wuld ntu-
rly pp hi        the cdnayroorni of the
tis," ans r    ycompsedly arrain       er
pace hIth     as much."

' .YOUR  RF .GOR GE BLAJkY 'T

No,. I do not," spoke up the pretty child  ic
Lam sory to say that I have no rights in this fa
except such asI ,get from:' my good friends' kind-
ness    wish it was  iy home; F'I'love to sta  {,re
always.
InstantlyFBelle established Kitty's position fro mer
ownstandpoit.
She has a lover here," she thought. "It can'rtbe
Hery Gotn?
"How old are you, Miss Kathleen-I thi}k they
called you ? "
My name is Kitty; I amnfifteen andahalf"
Belle eyed her, sharply; she wondered howma uh
was concealed beneath this amazing simplicity. She
herself, in her most artless rdie, qtldn't have looked
more transparently candid
aOh dear Ihowstui    I didhope I shld  hd
somiebody herecapable of beinga companion
Swishoup    ighta    sure," repliled.1r tty wth
unruffled ogoodnature ;  but I on't   eto
teum o  or-age frhtpose, even        __to oblige
you. Vou will have to make friends with  rotax
or Bianca Ashcroft-she is twenty-f      his
Though' she ,had','got her changequite copltely
she wast1 ernhthe itame fr             a
SThandkou for-the sgestion;-YOUeY
self, a sumer-gues, cclud e.'I wonde   it}1any,:
oneels invitede"
mo4   , ef         ,  :_                 ,,  .' '  r;

'I

_        R       n,     .Y

ipi

-  ,
;,'                    -      -  _

-'t'


74     70YURS TRLI GEORGE BAR2
_  . hope not," answered Kitty;' y-we have been so
comfortable, and had suchnicetimes;she stped
shot and center he d   among her flowers.Miss
ellefinished forher the sentenceand laid it away
inher memory for future use.
"ou don't dress your hair for dinner, I see; well,
itis nonsense where there's nobody worth the trouble;
tht style is dnot at all becoming, though  You must
letme show you how to put it up ina comb; you
ul look three years older, much more stylish, with
braids and a coil.
What Is the good of trying to look old? I arm
onlya child. I like being a littlegirl," replied Kitty,
nettledl by Belle's manner.
Gentlemen are quite apl to smile at and perhaps
look down upon females who affect the missish style,
and call'them chits and peaches, and those things."
She-did  t give Kitty time for the piqued reply
h rose to her lips at being accused of affecting
something, and also perhaps at the new notion offered
hat option young men might hold of her and
her oings;tbut asked carelessly, "These Gortons
are not rich people I take 't ?"
I haven't an idea," answered Kitty, looking her
astonishmnt"I never thought about it; they are
good worksany how   they read .all sorts of
boosad sig all Sorts of music, and henry.plays
thedflute we belong tothe ehoi erhap they  ill
Soi. They arthe nicest peple evkne
allthe money intheworld  o  tIdntke thei any

o'YOURS' TRULY Z 7 RG  LZR"

75.

nicer. I don't see any use in being rich, as long
we have everything we want."
Kitty stopped to take a.thread in her teeth  d
ing it about the stems of her flowers, and M Bran
don studied her attentively. While she mu
fire burned, the dinnerwas cooked, and the ti  n
nie knocked at the 'door to announcethat it  as o
the table'
The afternoon passed pleasantly enough   entry
went' up to his office ; Carlotta i.rlderlfoth
old lounge with "little Becky   for compiiion,
while she rested from her arduous kithei labors
and I set out for along country walk,' to v st my
friend Miss Elinor Walsing ant. I wasresolvedalt
to allow the new-comer to interfere either'fthrinmy"
business or m-y pleasure. Belle set her facultiesto'
the task -of finding out all about Kitty Clayton
which was not'at all dificult,-for' the dear chil4,;.3L
as transparent as daylight, and as chaty as a  r
The woman of the world, who had passethrough
strange experiences, andylived a life
attempts played recklessly aniong emotion a
passions, and had forgotten more exciting passage
eand hair-breadth escapes fro  actuagi,
would be possible for our Kitty todreao,
stood'just how to ada t herself to the candid
purity shewa handlingandwas so
and   ery th atcthebild leased to rebr the
eaginelyr unpleasant dpres nF, she hadi*rived,
before 'inner, and bestowed' meitl ursre


YO( ' 1s4y 6O A G 4 RSO

confidence ; and before tea-time the blonde had
learned nearly all she cared to ascertaim- was per-
w ctyposted  as to: her futre course.
Aste sun declined in the west, " what time the
w grayfyids her sultry horn," Henry-returning
 fromhis h face to lis .vening "chores," after
seeking Kity in the great apple-tree which was,
ind bya staircase, and furnished with seats fo a
party an    hich was a favorite rest of he-rs
in the swinging hammock beneath the pines, and
other resorts-caledout at the stair foot that hea
going to feed the pigs.
se evenng "chores" were a source of ever
fresh and ever new-delight to Kitty, and she always as
ssteditfthem with' joyous glee; and afforded a daily
amusementto Henry,.who brushedall law and equfity
rne from his tired brain under its ifhuence;
ad y migh hear the case-worked lawyer laugh-
ing,_and see him running races, playing tricks all
a tthep lace, like anienfranchisedsichooioydgn a
hal.holiday.F irt there was a tomiic turkey-
e hunted out fr  secretnooksand
unheard-of roostinaesi         hed hom
"Jadnever takentheieinto his stupid old head, that
t w asl' odutyroostinourbau     nike    re
stablendomestic fowand'e uttered a reionstr
g g    e at each rlant stepof his ugly feet
pandot ,blueliandpurpleallcthe  a
thereas the litl       to   ik     Kit
feltgay when fhe had sofar con:u d her ti m ydty

YQOURS RULYT GE61GE B1 tfR 'a
as to have a lesson in bringing the rich yellowstre~m
soutin~g into the bright pail, and koved the svaet '
whiffs of cow-breath she got, as the gentle creature
turned her head and- contemplated her on the iik-
ing-stool, gazing quietly out of her soft,"liquid F eyes'
And there were the bantams to be' gathered'up n
counted and fed, and the cocks. and -the hens, Wh
came caclingg and flying from all directions, at her
call, and eagerly picked up the shining yellow corn,
tur ing bright glances at the pretty donor, ad
noisily thanking her with their' merry '". clck, cluck,
choroo.;" last, but not least, there were the 'porcine
Willie Winkies to be treated to delicacies, and Ahe
pulled up the long brittle stalks of fresh-smellngpg-
weed, and it was rich delight to her to watch them
champ its juiciness, and suck in the clotted milk, jst
ling, crowding, and squeaking, with their fee n h
trough, as eager arnd self-apptfopriatinlgas Christans
in  W all  Street.  Though  ten  yearstshut  outfroitio  oatlah h,
such enjoymnents and occupations~ Kitty was ather
a frhcountry lads andsmoreover she hada
liking for her co-Worker,and at the first call
cheeryvoice se jumped joyfullyleavriig Belle i t
intensegart of a boatnug-party i which she h
ceived two offreis of narnrage, and seized her sun
bonnet.
Oh! there's Henry-I, must run  ickly; d
me to  elle; its such fun ;, we are going nt do
the che s.
lens Brando very nearly laughed in the


7$ ORS NRUY,'GRE ALM ?."
face,,not but she could have entered with beautiful
zeal nto the occupation if she had been furnished
th a sufficient motive. Under. the present cireum-
stances she thrust out her kid boot as an excuse.
"The grass is damp, you darling little Phyllis; I
am forced to take care of mny health, and my cape
bonnet isat the bottom of my trunk. You shall see
me outdo you in country joys; but this evening, as
yout will desert me, I'll run to my packing which
your delightful talk has.made me forget.
With a gushing kiss, she dismissed the good-na-
tured Kitty, who flitted away, calling  mas se flew,
and left the lady possessor of the Blue Corner.
Abandoned to her own devices, that person took a
thoughtful survey of the furniture, which she seemed
to fid much to her taste. And she was fastidious in
her surroundings, liking everything as elegant as
possible, and what she liked she made it a p6int to
get, if-managemernt and ingenuity could compass it.
There was one little item which had eluded her ardent
pursuit: she had failed to get a husband. She had.
been very near, often, to wearing the plain gold ring;
but somehow, even while she was reaching out her
hand, ugly disappointments had arisen and pushed it
aside. Miss Belle was an orphan indebted to an uncle
for her 'brilliant education, Whose fashionable wife
disliked her for her good looks, and yet more for her
untoward behavior. She also made bitter moan at the
expense of supporting her; and after being obliged
to bringher outand keep her 'on three or four sea-

YOURS TRULY, GEORGE BtJ4R."

79 4A

sons without getting her established, notwithstand-
ing her magnificent beauty, her display of shoelders
and dimples at erery place of fashionable resort
where such possessions are traded, she had managed
to make 'the orphan feel so provokingly that she was
de trop in-her splendid house, and declined so persist
ently to supply her extravagant demands, that after
numberless family squabbles, in every one of-which
the good, easy-going uncle was victimized by the"twe
women, and driven to the brink of despair e'md
a private bargain with his niece to give her an alfw
dance and let her keep herself where she pleased
which Belle consented,-because she naturally decide
that she could come- at more moneythatwvay
than under Aunt Isadore's pryintg eyes ;besides,'sh
had small wish to tarry longer amongst her aldis
appointments, where the younger girls coming
began to look upon her- as an old mai&amp;E  Herlow
ance though tolerably liberal, was too small for hr
lavish tastes; she had many years ago become
ceedingly expert in eking it by presentsdiplomati-
cally pr-ocured among her, friends, andshe  managed
for herself invitations to houses where were eligible
matches, and used all her arts to settle herself n'-life.
She could play'chess, and had sttudied every positi
f her dimpled fingers in moving the' pieces' 'She
had learned billiards at Rqsenbloom when' a school-
girl,. and her opponent often forgot to watch  am,
in admiring her graceful pose'; she aa  perfc
horse--woman, an elegant dancer, a brilliant muksiane

L  ,    yiT.       Teri-     :lt       ,)        _                                 '_


; of    * "YOURS TRULY, GEORGE BLAIR."
but still she constantly saw plainer girls chosen; "two
worgen were grinding in the mill, one was taken and
the other left;" the, good chances slipped through her
net, and, almost weary with angling, she found herself
at 'twenty-seven an unclaimed-maiden still. And she
aspitefully reflected that her beauty could-ot last for-
ever, which galling -certainty rather took sweetness
from1her naturally haughty, imperious disposition.
Always having an eye to the main chance, and an-
scrupulously using, everybody, made shprt friendships
fir her; and despite her artful artlessness, her gushing
wmarth,' she rarely achieved a second invitation..
Every One. of her honeyed words, every display of
her pearly teeth; every toss of her blonde curls were
meant to tell, and somehow people "got the hang of
it," and'rit spoiled the effect. Though her coming to
the Red Cottage was a resort dernier, now that she
was there, housed with the pliable Kitty, who had
the two things she lacked, a rich father -and no end
in-money, she found profit front the monotonous
seclusion; and dim visions already floated in hr
scheming' brain of an establishment in New'Orleans
to which our little pet rpiglit be the stepping-stone.
the first essential to .her comfort was possession of
the Blue Corner, which little nook was worthy of her
warmest admiration,
Perfectly ridiculous to waste such a bijou upon that
unformed chit ! I should suppose it would be reserved
for elegant guests; any place would suit her well
enough, such a hoyden as she is! If anything should

" YOURS TRULY, GEORGE BLAT?."8
come out .of this plan Miss Kitty would be speed
trimmed into proper shape. Miss Kitty's mamma:
to be, abhors romping. On her knees in that white
muslin! wasteful little witch;j . real India too-her
hands full of nasty weeds, and that ridiculous monster
of a cat at her heels. Fu! Miss Kitty, a little tonng
down will be awesome, h. Mr. Ijenryseems devoted,
watches her foolish antics, and smiles upon her--a
simple country pair-quite Arcadian--I wonder now,
could he-they say there's. no fool like an old foolI-4-
must observe--the chit i- good-natured.; wilr take
joyfully the spoiling of her goods. It ' really re-
markable how often I fall in with people ofher stamp.
It must be a kind arrangement of Providence to sup-
-ply my needs."
She turned away from the window, and ran her
eyes, over the cabinet-pictures, medallions, thk small
case of rare coins, the marble Stella on her pedestal
the. Undine rising from her native river; and she felt
it a positive necessity of her being, to' he installed
amogthis pretty garniture without delay.  "'Aston
ishing how such'a bower dropped out of thisold-tune
domicile, which looks as if it had stood stili since the
flood- I should have as soon expected to see the-
great.Rosy Diamond blazing on that malapert 1VMss
Carlotta's neck. I foresee a. bout with=that young
woman before we part, .sharp as she thinks. herself.
It may be she considers a Gorton the only:person
capable of reading character. Poh! I have been
through more emotions and queer places in.one yea
446

I. :               _

-'1$

-    5             4                       _       '1


82

"YOURS TRULY, GEORGE BLAIR."

of my eventful existence than all the old fogies in this
God-forsaken corner ever thought of."
While her thoughts were thus busy, Miss Brandon's,
hands were not idle; she was turning over the con-
tents of Kitty's bureau, and her blue eyes got bluer,
examing'the fine laces, gloves, handkerchiefs, and
kick-.knacks. She smelled-at the perfume boxes and
scent bags, and critically pronounced upon a point-
bertha in its dainty case, crossed and recrossed
wthpink ribbons. In all her glory she had achieved
nothinglike it; she had barely time to replace it in
the drawer and busy her hands among her long curls,
gazing innocently at them in the mirror, when Kitty
rushed in, all flushed and rosy, and smelling de-
cidedly of pig-weed.
"You little breathless Hebe! you palpitating rose-
bud! how this fresh country life suits you! I've
been wasting my precious minutes watching your
aerial flights and earthy gambols. I longed to de-
scend and join them. I also can frolic. Ab I if I
had but your robust health: I am delicate ;-I suffer
terribly~tormenting headaches--I hope the room I
am to occupy is quiet. I cannot bear any noise---
last summer, Mr. Gossamer had sawdust spread
above the gravel, about my windows. I sometimes
really wonder why people are so fond of making me
comfortable. Now sit down, cherie, and show me
the pictures in this great album, and tell me who
they may be."
Kitty readily complied; first splashing her hot

" YOURS TRULY, GEORGE BLAIR."

83

cheeks. with cool water, and stopping a moment to
inspect and bewail a few unlucky grass-stains the
India muslin had acquired ; with a brush or so, she
dismissed them.
"Carlotta knows how to take them all outs" said
she, easily; "she's. got some stuff in a bottle that
blanches everything like a charm."
'I wonder .she does not try its magic on her nut-
brown face," said Belle with a sraer. Though only
a few hours in our little woman's society, she had
conceived a violent dislike to her, acid I must ac-
'knowledge there was small love lost. Seeing Kitty's
displeased pout, she made haste to laugh and say,
t Only a bit of my fun; no disrespect to Miss Carlotta,
whom I sincerely admire.
"'And well you may," said- Kitty ; "she's just as
nice; she can scold a blue streak, though. When I.
am twenty-five, I am going to keep house like her."
Whatever gifts or acquirements the child had hidden,
her expression was absolute simplicity. Early hours'
and quiet living had kept her face childish and her
frame vigorous, while a frequent change of school
associates had made it easy for her to put out tendrils
of love, and clasp' and entwine those who came
naturally in her way. All her habits prepared her to
become fond of Miss Brandon, her devoted, useful
friend, and to get great content out of such a state of -
being, while the lady-leader was kind. Henry said
'Kitty was made to be a precious pet, and it really
seemed as if that was her normal condition, she took

f  1
I"

H        d,
"       1 . .  J_  1  i i '-


85

"'YOURS TRULY, GEORGE BLAIR."

to it so easily. Sheexpressed nor felt any surprise-at
finding the blonde in the Blue Corner, instead of the
'spare room, busy among her trunks. In fact, she
entirely forgot how that occupation had .been made
the' excuse for remaining in-doors; and drawing her
little easy chaiy close to the " perfection of comfort "
in which her visitor was installed, she turned page
after page-of the great album, and ran through the
names, graces, virtues, etc., of the originals of the
photographs, with an amusing volubility. Every
one of "the- girls" -possessed some especial good
gift: one was as "cunning as anything," another
"just as e art as she could live," Cora Barker was
"so hands e," Jenny Ashmead " full of fun," and
"my dear oom-mate, Laura Gwin, the dearest, truest
friend in the whole world."  No faults were chronicled,
no mistakes mentioned.  Kitty's mind was of the
type: which accretes no such rubbish; and while
Belle listened with bland attention, waiting to achieve
a piece of information, she observed this trait half
curiously, half contemptuously.  Her patience was
rewarded at length; when Kitty placed her small
finger-tip upon a card, and said proudly:
"This is my papa! isn't he beautiful ? "
It was' the picture of a middle-aged man, partly,
bald, and prematurely bowed; the' face was all lied
with care-marks, the cheeks thin, and the lips show-
ing 'their habitual compression, even beneath'their
shadowing mustache ; 'the dress evinced a methodic
habit of attention to trifles, and a great solitaire

IU

brilliant on the shirt-frill. had been touched up and'
brought out with the artist's, choicest skill. Evi-
dently, to his mind it was the cream of the whole
performance.
Belle studied it closely ; especially the diamond pin.
"You are your father's own child, cherie," said she,
smiling'; "you have his eyes-but of course it does
not look that way to-you; you are not afraid of him.
I think he looks a little stern, and hard to please.
Is it not so?"
Kitty cast down her eyes, and busied her fingers
with undoing the spring of a locket she wore on her
bosom. Belle's words echoed her secret thoughts,
but she had. not got far enough in her confidence
with her new friend to let out her private griefs, if
she had any.
"Nobody ever said Iwas stern and hard to please,
so it can't be that expression I have inherited," she
replied.  " This is papa in his youth, when his
cheeks were red. I really do think I look a little
like' this picture ; and this lady on the other side is
my dear mamma."
"Oh, indeed, how very pretty !" said Miss Bran-
don ; and as she said so, she threw a glance into the
mirror at her own superb loveliness: "not many
women so beautiful as I am," she thought. "I
must get things in train. ' In the morning sow thy
seeds and in the evening withhold not thy hand,Jor
thou knowest not' which shall prosper, whether this
or that.'" Belle smiled inly at her sacrilegious apb

'4

,    _
-      f                                    ,

'OURS TR (L Y. GEORGE BLAIR.

[J4'-

_,
,t


"YOURS TRULY, GEORGE BLA4I."

*6 YOURS TRULY, GEORGE SLAIR."

propriation of Scripture.. "I'll bless the fates if IT
have lighted at last upon what I need ; meanwhile let'
ne watch and prepare ; I shall hit upon a means if it
really proves worth my while. If not--this Gorton
--no ; too poor; I am too handsome to stoop yet,
though I should rather enjoy outwitting and walking
over that Miss Carlotta. There °may be other avail-
abilities hereabouts-all these places have a little
great man, who may be a widower or a bachelor-
27 are uncanny figures to stare opposite my name-
Why stand we here idle,? what is it that gentlemen
wish ! "
While Kitty chatted merrily on, the worldly woman
sat with her eyes upon the pictured faces which
made the texts of the talk, and though she seemed to
listen with pleased attention, her vagabond thoughts
went rambling as we know-and they got busy
among'some finished scenes of her life. There was a
dark-browed Spaniard, whom she had held in thrall
once, whose love-making had been a mixture of im-
perfect English and very intense Castilian.  She
seemed to feel his caress-his warm breath upon her
cheek. There was no stain-on her ripe mouth, which
looked dewy and fresh as a vestal virgin's, although
she had been engaged a dozen times. Othello, you
may remember, had a little private rumination in this
same strain. " I°found not Cassio's kisses on her
lips," said the fond old. Moor. The poor boy Zam-
brano went to the, bad-thanks to her-and mixed
with his memory came a idble face crowned with

grizzled hair.  She had been very near marrying
that man, and of all her lost chances this stung her
most deeply-he was.so exhaustlessly rich.  The
closing scene of that drama was mortifying, and al-
though, seven years had passed since it swept her like
a storm from her almost accomplished desires, it
bitterly stung her yet, and she shut the golden clasps
of the great volume with a quick snap, put away the
young owner,- and rising, almost rudely, she shut
herself into her chamber.

11

0

87

86

I


THE LETTER AND THE PICTURE.

1?

CHAPTER VII.
THE LETTER AND THE PICTURE.
ISS' BRANDON'S diligence and application,
when she-had a scheme in hand, might have
offered a bright example to many men of
business. The next morning she proposed to Kitty
that they should sit down together and get up their
correspondence ; inviting her plumpness into the
Blue Corner for that purpose, where she secured the
"perfection of ,comfort," in the pleasantest angle,
gaining a full-length view of herself in the long mir-
ror.
Kitty had no particular fondness for the occupa-
tion, nor desire to pursue it at the moment, but
Belle purred so insinuatingly that she consented,, and
drew her chair to the opposite side of the table, and
laid out her pretty French paper and her pens and
her butterfly, and commenced: "My dearest papa,"

89

and then waited while the blonde got ready her,
materials. The easiest portion of her epistle having
been completed, and the rest being arduous labor,
she was quite willing to delay and listen to the talk
of her friend, who seemed in no haste, but went on
turning out scraps of poetry, love letters, and billet-
doux fromher portfolio, and commenting upon each
till she carelessly tossed down before the child a
couple of photographs.
"How do you like those frights ? are they ugly
enough to be true ? " asked she, with a laugh.
"'Oh, dear ! how perfectly lovely ! and just you-
as'if you would speak ! I wish I could get  good
ones of me. Papa didn't like the last I sent im; it
did look funny-the horrid blue light hur my eyes
and squinted them all out, and the sun blazed down
so, I couldn't see the old head he stuck on a pole-
and he would insist on my holding up my hand with
a lump of my shawl clutched in it, and it looked a
perfect paw-; Miss Teazle said it was good, and should
go. Laura Gwin said she was hateful ; she made faces
at her. And I knew papa would think me a fright-
this is pretty, but you are pretty too."
"Thank you, cherie ; I wonder if your father
would be of the same opinion? I see you are
writing first to him, like a dutiful daughter. Wouldn't.
it be a frolic if you were to send him the shadow of
your friend ? I wish you could also convey to him
the pleasant impression his. charming little Kitty has
made upon me ; but words.cannot do that!"


THE LETTER AND  E PICTURE. THE LETTER AND THE PICTURE.

90

The simple child flushed with pleasure. "How
nice you are ! I should like ever so much to send
this to papa ; and I must tell him all about you. ° I
was wondering whatever I could put. into my letter.
I- don't usually write but a page and.a half; but this
time I have got something to say, and I mean to fill
up the sheet."
" That's right, cherie ; but if you intend giving a
compendium of my character I shall bargain for a
sight when finished."
" Of course ; I don't need to tell about your face,
because he will have that to look at, you know. He
will think you very handsome. Why didn't you ever
get married ?"-
Belle smiled, and there came a very unpleasant
glimmer through the deep blue of her eyes like burn-
ing steel. Kitty so artlessly reminded her of the
twenty-seven years, and that she considered her, if
not passe, at least no more a young girl like herself.
" Perhaps I may, some day, if I find a mran to suit
me ; and cherie shall be my bridesmaid.  Come !
we must begin to be industrious ; you have got no
farther than 'Dearest Papa'--an excellent begin-
fling; why don't you make him come on this summer
and pay you a little visit ? If I had a good father I
would make him stop with me altogether."
".He would not like me to urge him, I am afraid;
I never do; he is so busy, and hates the trouble of
travelling."
" I shall really begin to think you do not desire his

I

company ; and you his only daughter ! Perhaps he
feels hurt that you do not beg of him to come, and
would be glad to get a nice, loving letter from his
little girl ; really, I must scold you !"
"Well, if you think so, I will try. I never looked
that way at it. You shall tell me a little what to
write, and I will put it down  I do hate letters, it is
so much nicer to look into people's eyes and talk ! "
"Well, come! look straight into mine, Cherie !
Now ifit was my father, I would say all sorts of fond
things."
Without exactly -dictating the epistle, Belle man-
'aged to inspire the writer so that the missive dis-
patched had certainly a new tone. It was full of
pretty pleading and small nonsense ; and with the
handsome woman's face .shut within, and a hearty
eulogy upon that lady, it was sealed and addressed ;
and then Miss Brandon seemed out of the humor of
correspondence; for she declared herself tired, and
threw up her arms and yawned, and proposed a walk
to the post-office, where she kept careful watch of the
missive till it was safely deposited in the care of good
Uncle Sam.

"    "           f  o ^         '
i      ?  t
"
w
M
4

THE LETTER AND THE PICTURE. ' .

91


"DIES FASTUS."

CHAPTER VIII.
"DIES FASTUS."

C

ATURDAY in the country, and everything
to do : sweeping, dusting, baking, brewing,
boiling and stewing, besides cleaning up
generally. I think the swift-rolling speed of' the
days beats everything ; these dies fastus lap right
together now; wr are not rested from the last till,
behold! another is twirling away. I can remember
when a week was a mentionable portion of time-not
a flash.of the old mower's scythe ; heigho.! "All the
labor- of a woman is for a man's mouth, and yet
his appetite is not filled : " Ecclesiastes vi. 7. The.
Red Cottage is a bit of a cottage, but it takes a mar-
vellous deal of thinking and planning, to say nothing
of hard work, to keep Henry's mouth full; and a
great: many weary steps in the domestic treadmill to
make the machine grind on steadily, so that there
shall occur none of those ghastly hiatuses 'which
pitch all comfort into chaos ; and I have known that

wretched fellow to inquire in the most unfeeling
manner, "Why, what. can you women-folks find to
busy yourselves about ? " There was a time when I
used to waste my breath in explaining some of the
agreeable details of the menage, pointing out the
motes in his sunbeams ; but I've got scornfully past
all that; I pity his ignorance, and despise him.
Saturday is, par excellence, our "working day ; "
set apart exclusively to cleaning the engine, furbish-
ing up the works, getting in fuel, and preparing for a
fresh go ; though the process is wearing to bodies
and souls, the emancipated condition of clean, easy
quietude it brings out for the holy time approaching,
is truly refreshing and delightsome.
Henry is thankful in these seasons of hurry and
worry for a "picked-up dinner ; " the bit of steak
left from breakfast, eked out with a piece of apple-pie
hot from the oven, and a cup of black tea, not set out
with the mandarin china, but on an end of the great
deal table, secure from the jostling of the workers ;
a huge pan of doughnuts steaming under his "talented
nose," defended by a great, brown cloth, which he
modestly lifts and replaces with every fresh consump-
tion ; the family bread, in process of rising, in a big
wooden tray in the middle ; and the distant swishing
of Winnie's scrubbing-brush mingling with the bub-
bling and boiling on her kitchen stove. Winnie is the
cleanest creature ; you, might eat your dinner off her
floor ; and she has ways of disposing of her skirts
which always remind me of

9)3


I

94

"DIES FASTUS."

Winifred Pice, who was tidy and clean,
Her gown v+-s a flowered one, her petticoat green;
Her buckles were bright as her milking cans,
Her hair was brick-red, and cut like a man's.
.Her little, gray eyes wei-e deep set in their socket-holes ;
Her gown-tail was turned up, and tucked through the pocket-holes.
A face like a ferret, betokened her spirit;
To conclude, Mrs. Price was not over young,
Had very short legs, and a very long tongue."
If our factotum had sat foi' her portrait, she could
not have been more aptly described ; and a more
faithful, obliging soul, even in her tantrums, never
wrought for Christians.
Henry assimilates' his noonday repast on the dies
fastus, I hope, with singleness of heart ; but not in-
dulging in much light and cheerful conversation.
Carlotta's replies are apt to be .a little more epigram..
matic than usual; and even I, Serena, do sometimes,
mislay my placidity of equilibrum, under the pressure
of fighting circumstances. The man, of the house is
wont to seize his hat and walk away quickly, humming-
some plaintive ditty, and comforting himself with an
apple or a bunch of raisins ; and he has great reason
for thankfulness if he is not hollowed back just as he
turns the corner, with the announcement that the
molasses is out ; the oil jug    empty; or that some
other of the multitudinous articles necessary to com-
plete housekeeping are not, and must be replaced
directly, or there will occur a general standstill.
Jim keeps his distance from, the cottage on Satur-
day, curling himself in the sweet-smelling hay in the

"DIES FASTUS."

95

old barn, only sallying forth 'at distant intervals tp
reconnoitre, and ascertain how soon he may reason-
ably expect to be welcome within doors. He has
learned to calculate chances equal to Hoyle; and
when he hears the last splashes of Winnie's wash-
house. inundation, and the flipping of her wet broom
against the post, he knows that the cleaning is fin-
ished, and the cat no longer in danger of being
kicked out as a" nasty, pothrin' body, getting under
foot," and he may safely resume the cushion of his
favorite chair.
No walks in the garden, no loitering admiration of
flowers, no glee-singing or book-talks are in season.
The flute stands idly in its corner. The old "Pleyel"
is shut up ; my flageolet breathes not a strain. The
sterner realities of the dins fastus crowd out all holiday
indulgence, and still achieving, still pursuing-we
learn to labor and to wait.
On this particular Saturday we were unusually
overwhelmed. Having dispatched the evening be-
fore, per cars, an invoice of cousins, on the Norberry
side, embracing almost as many children as that in-
teresting household, whose history is feelingly set
forth in the New England Primer, ''nine small chil-
dren, and one out of breath," and we had barely
time to take-a small dose of ''Nature's sweet restorer,
balmy sleep," before the hurrying minutes pitched us
right into the thick of our work. Orpha Ann Norberry
had been billeted upon Kitty, who cuddled up to her
and had a merry, good time, and Miss Brandon had

4

, .
{'

}'
it   ,


96             " DIES FASTUS."

been obliged to harbor Keziah, and the Red Cottage
was in a state of irresponsible chaos. Though our ex-
cellent kindred had tarried but a night, like respectable
pilgrims, they had .caused a general uprooting of
things, which neededpatience to lick into shape again.
Especially the leavings of that scamp of a pestilent
young Norberry, who played horse with everything
movable, and left all our chairs tied together like
prisoners of war, in whose midst he had fought an
army, pelting them with the knick-knacks, shells,
books, and other trifles he could lay hands on. While
Aunt Melinda rejoiced in his sprightliness, and said
he was "mamma's man if he broke everything all to
bits."
Miss Brandon complained of headache consequent
upon broken rest, and was shut into the spare cham-
ber, attended by willing Kitty, who had already run
the value of half a dozen miles with ice-towels, hot
tear and other remedies suited to. the case and occa-
sion. I had tied up my hair in a red handkerchief
that I might not feather out in process of sweeping,.
and encased my digits-in a pair of Henry's old driv-
ing gloves, minus a couple of fingers, and was skir-_
mishing about, trying to get up the needful enthusiasm
which avails to explore the corners and ferret out the
tucking places-when somebody knocked. The door
stood invitingly open, and the person seeking admit-
tance seemed to think it unnecessary to wait a
bidding .to enter ; for before I could get rid of my
hand-shoes, or relieve my hair from its picturesque .

"DIES FASTUS:"

97

adjustment, Mrs. -Ramble had entered and taken
possession of the rocking-chair. Her bonnet, adorned
with iron-gray everlastings of bristling horse-hair, as
if her own grizzled locks had budded like Aaron's
rod, was tilted back, and its crushed .and crumpled
strings tied under her wrinkled chin, with marks of'
haste, which I ascribed to a pressure of unshed :news
on the dame's mind, of which I was certain to get the
benefit.
"Oh, Mrs. Ramble I good-morning. Busy as a
bee you find us--Saturday is a trying epoch to house-
wives, is it not?"
" I don't make no such hidelo over it ; I don't see
no use in scrubbing and rubbing every Saturday, I
ain't going to stay a second hardly. IMrs. Toplofty's
got her some new war-musses and a bunnet; he fetched
'em from the city yesterday ; I thought I'd run down
and see 'em. She's dreadful apt to dress too much
for a church-member, and I feel as if I ought to use
my influence,. and kinder lift up my voice ; last sum-
mer she had a sky-blue hat, with streamers. as long
as your arm ; company ain't gone yet, be they ?"
"Yes ; they left us last evening."
" What ! gone!   I thought they. was goin' to
spend the summer, but I must say I'm glad, that Belle
Brandon's cleared out-I didn't think no great
shakes of her-too stuck up for my use ; but Kitty
was a likely little creatur'-I took quite a notion to
Kitty-i.-went off kinder sudden, didn't they? no
rumpus, I hope ?"

:,
l
qq31
lf
i
;
I

.

t - .

,
,,
t      -'
r'
y,

:
$  _
,_
;"         ' .
. .
r
-
, ,k            {
i
e,
'     _
!,1         _          '


)

98

"DIES 'FASTUS."

"°Miss Brandon and Kitty are still our guests ; I
thought you referred to the Norberry's, who spent
yesterday with us."
"Law ! they been here and I didn't find it out !
I'd a gin anything to see 'em. How's Moses gettin'
along now? I heard he'd gin up preachin' and gone
to York to be a cricket on a newspaper. Is it a
fact ?"
"Cousin Moses has taken an editor's chair there, I
believe."
" Ves--much the same thing, I s'pose-where's
Carlotty?"
"In the kitchen, Mrs. Ramble; this is baking
day, and she is exceeding busy."
" Oh, well, I ain't goin' to stay a second hardly ; I
won't hinder her none. She needn't mind me."
Seeing that she was determined to see the baker,,
I opened the door, and there she stood beating eggs
for dear life, and up to her elbows in flour, her
face ornamented here and there with little white
patches, showing well upon the clear brown ground,
as I have seen ladies spinetimes who made too liberal
use of meen 'fun or pearl powder. She intimated to
me by sundry nods and becks not interspersed with
wreathed smiles, that I was to shut the door directly,
and say she couldn't and wouldn't come ; but as I
knew Mrs. Ramble to be of a jealous turn of mind,
and that she would be raspingly disagreeable to me
in such a base, I expressed as much in pantomime as,
animated as her own, the immediate vicinity of

'D21 !S FAS277.",

A9

our visitor precluding the use of speech ; so she
frowningly dropped, not to say dashed, down the
egg-beater, and advanced to the door.
" Oh, mornin', Carlotta ; I heard about your tiff
with Mr. Squirmwell; you gin him fits, didn't you ?
Well, I declare I was clean done out with that Jeru-
sha Peacock last night at conference meetin', Ser-
ena. You see, Deacon Rotterdam got up to make
his speech, and just as soon as ever he' got to the
place, 'When Skipio went into Africa,' she giggled
right out, he stopped and gin her a look, and she
kinder choked in as red as a beet ; but when he
began again, 'When Skipio went into Africa,' away
she went laffin' right out., And that warn't the worst
don't: the girls all round her snickered, and the minis-
ter had to hide up his face, and the deacon he sot
down."
Very wicked youths, Mrs. Ramble," remarked
Carlotta.
"'Yes, but the deacon says you smiled a contempt-
able smile, and he is coming' down this afternoon to
wait on you-he's gritty, I tell you."
"You mean contemplative, don't you ? like this "-.
drawing out her lips and eyes like a Chinaman.
"You little midget, you ! If you don't look as
wicked as a fox--better wink at him that 4way; he'd
haf to laffi What's ye making' smells so good ? "
Mrs. Ramble took a sniff, and advanced into our
kitchen, undertaking a critical review of our resources
and preparationrs for Sunday in the eating line.

1'

1 ,
}
,
1  _
ir.
~
j4
j f  j
f y,(-
4                     "5


N

" DIES FASTUS."

-" DES F AS TUS."

" Oh ! corned beef ind such--biled pot, we used to
call it when I was young. Ain't you extravagant to
have two kinds -of meat ? I should think them pig-
eons 'd be too muchh; do for Monday, I s'pose. Well,
I declare for't!I wher'd ye get yer sweet corn?. didge
dry it' yerself ? looks proper nice. You've got a lot
more in the bag, haven't ye ? better gi' me some; 't'll
all get wormnf if you keep it over, and 't'll soon be
finie for new ; yes, you put merlasses into yer baked
beans, don't ye tastingg them]; I do, too, and a little
speck ofsallyratus ; makes 'em tender. Mrs. Squirm-
well was telling how they bake beans in Boston, in
little stone pots, sittin' up all night to keep filmi' on
'emn up with water ; they ain't a mite better'n ours,
but them kind of folks think they're the clear cream-.
I can't stay a second hardly. I run in this morning
to bid you -to the mite s'ci'ty ; I'm goin' to have it to
my house next time, and I want to borry your forks
and spoons and plates, and I didn't know but what
you'4 bile me some of your beautiful crullers; five or
six dozen will do ; -I don't never have no luck,-and
everybody says Carloty Gorton makes- the- best
pickles they ever eat ; T must~ buy or borra some
of 'em. My vines didn't seem to bear, and the vine-
gar et up all I got of Mrs.~ Deacon Rotterdam; 'tain't
no vinegar no how, nothing but 'scorbutic acid, and I
*kinder felt as if Serena 'd whack up a batch of tarts ;
it's such an everlasting' job,'I hain't got no patience-to
fiddle with the pesky things."
I read a story when I was a child, something like
this:

a"I've broke your rotten old wheel-barrow usin'
on't, and-I want you to get it mended, 'cause I want
to borra it agin this arternoon."
The owner of the dilapidated vehicle was a quiet
Quaker, who calmly replied :
" Friend ! it shall be repaired and sent to thee."
It was'in this meek spirit that I promised cbmpli-
ance with Mrs. Ramble's request. While she talked,
Carlotta fidgeted about, holding up her doughy hands,
till finally, losing all patience, she departed to her
pantry, and left the~ whole task of entertaining to me,
It was not an onerous one, so far as talking went, for
having returned -to her rocking-chair, she treated me
to a full and particular account of the quarrel over
the new pew-cushions. How Mrs. .Squirmwell had
taken away Mrs. Pillhackle's, and said she used to
have it in the old -church for jen years, adding, " I de-
clare, Serena, it must have wore like the Israelites'
close in the wilderness, for 'tain't no ways ragged
now." 'She dished up the deacons'and their wives,
the minister and his family, in an original pot-pourri.
Whenever I tried to insinuate a remark, she waved
me off, holding all the while a pinch of snuff in her
thumb and finger, and raising her voice a little louder,
and pushed forward as volubly as ever.
At length I took dexterous advantage of a pause sihe
was forced to take, while she enjoyed her- macaboy,
and slipped in a question by way of turning'the cur-
rent of her thoughts.    gig
"Is your husband really gito California, Mrs.
Ramble ?"

roo0

I0I


.'DIES FASTUS."

"DIES FASTU(S"

"I don't know nothin' 'bout it; one day he says he
will, and another'day he says he won't ; he keeps me
as flipperty fussy as an old settin' hen that's had her
nest broke up. Folks has. tried to make out that
me and Ramble don't live happy, but 'tain't so ;
we've scooted along as slick as a kitten's ear; he's
a kinder shiftless coot, always was ; -but I've got used
to him ; I shall be .drefful lonesome ef he duz go';
I expect I shall be' cuttin' round to the neighbors
putty often;~and that makes me think, you hain't
showed me your new parlor carpet ; let's see how it
looks."
Rising, Mrs. Ramble admitted herself to the apart-
ment, without giving me- the trouble even to turn
the knob for her, and going down on her knees, she
proceeded to a careful. inspection of the fabric, in-
quiring the price, if the thread and binding were
thrown in., informing me that it was down crooked,
and advising me to have it "took up and stretched
right away,"
Time never stays, and three mortal hours had drib-
bled through the old hour-glass, while Mrs. Ramble
knit and rocked, and yet she showed no "symp-
toms " of departure, though she still reiterated her
commencing statement, " I' can't .stay a second
hardly." Dinner-time drew on;. I thought, it would
be hardly decent to allow the old -lady to depart,
after so much exhausting discourse, unfed,. and I
invited her to-stop and dine ; taking care, however, to
forewarn her that she would not. be surfeited with

a'

good things ; as I might have foreseen, the dear old
fish rose to the bait at once.
"Well, I don't know but what I might as well,"
said she, "as I've sot so long. Mr. Ramble can
pick himself up a dinner somehow ; he's kinder used
to a buttery-nibble, and don't mind style."
Report said that the forbearing man usually got his
own breakfast before going to his work in the: early
morning, while his helpmate still slumbered and
slept, and not -unseldom his supper also, while she
was attending all the prayer-meetings, societies, and
mothers'-bands far and near.  Poor man ! though
he drove his truck early and late, he-never seemed to
drive it into much prosperity. There is a homely
proverb: "a woman cani throw out with a teaspoon
faster than a man can pour in with a shovel," which
I am afraid had a bearing upon the Rambles' home.
However, the knitter adjusted her spectacles, andher
needle in its goose-quill sheath, and clicked away
quite comfortably after having dismissed the respon-
sibility of her good-man's dinner. Just as I was
slipping out, thinking to. finish my sweeping before
Henry's arrival, she arrested me by remarking:
Have you heard how mean Alumzy Jane's hus-
band treated her, just cause she bought a few things
to the store, and had 'em charged without his know-
ing it? Law! you'd a thought the sky was a failin',
to hear him jaw, as if it wasn't a man's business to
provide. What's the use of husbands if taintt to
make a livin'? .The nasty, stingy critter !' I give

102

y

103.


04"DIES FASYTUS."

"DIES FASTUS."

him a piece of my mind ; I'declare he ought to be
hung on Haman's gallowses, but I tell you, Serena,
the right sort of folks is as scarce as hens' teeth:."
She was still agog with Alumzy Jane's wrongs
when Henry arrived, but she faced about and in-
terviewed him immediately.
"Good-day, square ; I guess, as I'm here, I may
as well get a little law; I 'spose, you don't charge
nothing for advising' the ladies."
I left her detailing a long affair about a pig which
had come to a sad end, through malice prepense of
some -marauding boys, and got the dinner on the
table as fast as possible, but as I felt certain that
Mrs. Ramble would never forgive me any sins of
omission, though she lived in a most slip-shod way
herself, I was obliged to lay the table in state.
When Carlotta appeared all glowing and rosy with,
working like a little beaver, I noticed the guest's eyes
settle on her with an expression which boded some-
thing disagreeable to be uttered presently (she has
a knack at saying such things, and calls it "blunt
frankness"), though she profited largely by her
kitchen labors, eating voraciously of the juicy
- broiled ham, fresh, warm apple-pie, and relishing
little potato-balls, baked in cream, supping noisily
the coffee-and if I do say it, you might go far to.
find such pure, clear, amber-colored, aromatic coffee
as we serve to ourselves and friends at-the Red Cot-
tage.
It was quite evident she had an affront to settle,

A

viz., the neglecting her presence for such a bagatelle
as the Saturday's cooking.
We have an old aunt in Bordentown, whom I am
fond of visiting, and I can invariably tell the esti-
mation in which she holds her guests by her way of
entertaining. She says, " I always cook stuff for
folks I don't care anything about ; but when I have
real friends come, I- can't bear to leave them a min-
ute." Carlotta is never taken aback ; her larder is.
as sure to be full as a squirrel's-and visitors who
drop in "are certain of nice food as well as piquant
conversation."
"Seems to me, Carlotta," began Mrs. Ramble,.
squinting at the gold beads our little woman has
never removed from her neck since they were clasped
there by the poor blind mother-" seems to me you
wear a great deal of gold for a chirch-member; I've
heard folks say you was dreadful fond of dress."
" Who are folks, most delightful generalizer?"
demanded Carlotta, blandly.
"Oh, I ain't going' to give no names, but I must
say I wonder you don't have a ring in your nose too ;
I think it would be just as. proper.
"I am not given to rooting, and I don't need
any-"
"Well, you'd much better sell them tinkling or-
naments, and give the money to the heathing. I
wouldn't have the dingle-dangle things flopping
round my ears; I wouldn't be seen with them."
Carlotta glanced mischievously at the pious old
5*

'og

:l -

I64


1Io6           "DIES FASTUS."

lady's snuff-stained nose, and wrinkled, weather-
beaten, skinny neck. "No, Mrs. Ramble," said she,
"neither would I-if I. were you."
Well," replied the guest, tossing, the remains of
her coffee about in her cup, preparatory to a finish
of it--" well, they don't look Christian, nor becom-
ing to Christian women. I've borne my testimony,.
and that is all I can do. You don't seem very soci-
able, square ! what's the matter?"
" I agree with Varien, madam; people at dinner
should be neither loquacious nor mute. Eloquence.
is for the forum, silence for the bedchamber."
" I want to know-don't you never think about get-
ting married, square?"
"'Oh, yes, madam;
"I to the world am like a drop of water
That in the ocean seeks another drop."'a
"'Is that so ? You have a great flow of language ,
when you do let it. out, haven't you,? Now, square,
if I may make so bold, how old are you:.?"
Henry, who has a- lawyer's horror of direct ques-
tions, replied to: this home-thrust:
"By the foot of Plutarch, I was so very young:
when I was born: that I don't thi k I caught the
exact date, even if I heard it mentio ed, which is not.
likely. Now, Mrs. Ramble, I'll ask you a question:
what is the first mention of bitters in the Bible?"
"I don't know,.sqttare; I don't believe in such rid.

DIES FASTUS."             tO7
dies, making fun of Holy Writ: but what is it? I'm
kinder curus to hear."
"The waters of Marah, which were bitter, weren't
they ?
"That's so, square ; bitter? yes, as true as you
live; but the folks grumbled at themer e
"Yes, ,I know they did, until they were sweetened;
same way with us, we use sugar with ours."
"Now,-square, I declare you are too bad-'cute,
though, ain't it."
Belle Brandon, meanwhile, had not been idle; with
Kitty ministering to her, she had done a good deal
of moaning and groaning.
",Oh, dear, my head! how it aches; I know it was
the dumplings and cream yesterday. I never could
eat such stuff."
"Stuff! " echoed litty; "they were elegant, as
light and nice as puffs ; my head doesn't ache, and I
ate ever so much."
"You have such robust health, child, you might
eat nails like a camel."
"Well, I, like that, Belle, when I saw you swallow
a whole lemon last night."
"That was a tonic, Cherie. It may have been the
dreadful cousin who made me ill, she talked such
fearful twaddle."
"Orpha Ann and I had a joyous time, though ;
we fold fairy stories," answered Kitty, laughing
"Sweet innocent, you have the very nature tobe
pleased with a rattle and tickled with a straw. Ah .


0

i0o8

"DIES FASTUS."

there goes another wagon ! it seems as if they all,
rolled on the top of my head. If this room was only
as, nice and quiet as yours--the horrid old plank-
road gives me agonies ; I know just how much toll
that lame wretch took last night ; I heard him
count it. You ought to be thankful to be out of
the sound of it; but you can sleep anywhere': I wish
I could."
Kitty reproached herself that she had not thought
of offering the invalid her Blue Corner, so cool and
still, and made haste to insist on immediate transfer,
wet towels, ice-water, and all; and being dismissed by
the i ew incumbent, who languidly hoped she could
sleep-she came down rosy and satisfied, just as Mrs.
Ramble had swallowed the last crumb of her dinner
and put her last question to the lawyer.
"Well, I declare fort, I must eat and run as the
beggars do, or I shan't make out to get a sight of
Mrs. Toplofty's warmusses; here comes Kitty-.do
you know what my old father used to say to me ? he
used to say, ' Late to breakfast, late to heaven;' and
that makes me think, what would you answer if I was
to tell you how Mrs. Squirmwell allows that you down
here, are pretty likely to walk into conference after
meetin's begun?°"
"I should call her a frisky Sapphira, Mrs. Ram-
ble."
"Pretty good, square ; I s'pose you know she had
a brother that was a noted pugilist; but he gin up
fighting, lately; he found it was bad for the eyes ;

"DIES FASTUS."

I09

where's Miss Brandon? does she have her vituals
sent up to her-?-"
"She's got a headache. I just left her in iny room;
she's going to try to sleep."
"In your room, Kitty! what's that for?"
"The rolling of the carts and things hurt her head ;
my dear Blue Corner is the quietest nook, you
know."
The shrewd old woman looked sharply at the child :
"You didn't ought. to let her in there, Kitty," said
she. " It won't be easy to get her out again, I can
tell you-don't you let the sun go down on her, the
'cute old one ! I can see through a grin-stone when
there's a hole in it."
"Cow-bird," muttered Carlotta; "Pestilent Frin-
gilla."
"Now, then, Carlie," laughed Henry, "unclasp the'
purple leaves of war." Seeing that Mrs. Ramble was
sagaciously observant of us all, we, with one consent,
ceased all conference upon our private affairs, and
she left us to inspect Mrs. Toplofty's new warm-
usses."


CHAPTER IX.
WERE YOU NEVER IN :LOVE, CARLOTTA.?
HE sociable young people of Merry Bank,
with' whom Kitty was an. immense favorite,
called upon Miss Brandon, who impressed
themall more or less' by her elegant dresses, and air of
fashion andstyle. Picnics and sociables were the order
of the' day, and'though the blonde often ridiculed-her
hospitable entertainers, she accepted  their invitations,
arid when she felt in humor, or saw anything to be
gained, she knew how to suit herself to any set of
tastes or circumstances. She speedily ascertained to
her satisfaction the status of every prominent family
in town, and the prospects, matrimonial or otherwise,
which the place afforded. She singled out for a
particular display of the shoulders and dimples, a
middle-aged, almost elderly banker, who-had recently
come among us, of whom little good was known.
He was a returned Californian, and was reputed ex-

WERE YO( NVER IN LovE, CARLOTTA?      11
haustlessly rich ; but.whether heobtained his wealth
in honest digging, r skilful shuffling of the " devil's
leaves," was not clearly understood. Of course all
sorts of tales wer rife, all or none of which might
be true;-. He wa  a widower, twice bereaved, ex-
tremely fond of horses, of which he drove the showi-
est, an excellent' judge of female beauty, and had a
brotherly, fatherly, protective, friendly way of address
ing women, which, with his, lavish use of money,
good-natured proffers of his spanking grays, high
bred saddle-horses, and his ready willingness to pro-
mote any frolic, or merry-making, glossed over his
sporting talk, his frontier coarseness: and swagger,
and gained him favor in houses from which poor,
seedy blacklegs would' have been ignominiously
ejected. His face told a tale of him, which our friend
Chaidy Goldsmith used to put in' the form of a conune-
drum, "Who hath redness of eyes-? he that tarrieth"
long at the wine.
The fact that Mr. John Nickson had shown marked
admiration of Kitty Clayton's sweet ways; and' fresh,
young: face, added zest to tell's secret exultation'
that she could draw him''to her side, by one melting
glance of her steely blue eyes, one witching display
of the matchless dimples, and who can blame her for
a little ill-nature, when Kittyso' artlessly expressed
her joy to be rid of' him and his attentions ? While
keeping another project in mind, Miss Brandon' be-
gan to revolve seriously 'the question whether it would
not be for her advantage to fold her' tired wings, a


112 WERE YOU NEVER IN LOVE, CARLOTTAP
domestic dove, in Mr. Nickson's experienced bosom,
and ceasing her wandering quest on restless pinions
roaming, to bestow the much-hawked-about shoul-
ders, the often-tossed blonde curls, and what battered
-remains of a heart she could patch together, upon
the banker, as soon a§ he could be brought to begfor
them, which sweet pleading she had many minds to
hasten to a climax. She had already discerned the
faintest outline of an incipient crow's-foot under her
left eye, and a couple of freckles'on her nose. Death
gave three warnings to his victim before he took him
into custody; .Belle felt that she had got two-that
there was no time to lose before entering the holy
estate of wedlock.
Kitty daily expected a reply to her letter contain-
ing the pictured beauty, and was fond of talking about
it and the surprise such an inclosure must have been
to her dear papa, and discussing the probabNities of
his coming ; Belle also looked out anxiously ; it might
change her plans:
It was the second week, I think, after her arrival at
the Red Cottage, that Carlotta one morning discov-
ered Kitty sitting quite disconsolate in a huddled at-
titude, looking out of the window, over the tops of
the flowers, without seeing anything.
"Why, pet ! what's gone cris-cross -? has Jim for-
sakedi his little mistress ? have the ducks forgot to
quack ? has the cow-bird been unpleasant, that you
hang metaphorically your harp upon the willow and
~abandon yourself to desolation, your head bowed

WERE YOU NEVER IN LOVE, CARLOTTA? 113
down like a bulrush? Come here till I hold you a
little, and you whisper your woes into my ear.
"Oh, there's nothing the matter, Carlie; only I was
thinking," replied Kitty from her favorite resting-
place on her friend's breast. She had a pleasant, cud-
dling little way like a soft kitten, which made. cares-
ses the most natural thing to bestow and .receive.
Nothing in the world, but I should like to ask you
one question."
"Well, sweet, what is it?"
"Were you never in love, Carlotta?"
"Oh, yesI" replied the woman-friend quietly,
though her pulse  sickened, and her black eyes emit-
ted an unconscious flash ; " oh, yes, of course ; I am
twenty-five years old, and I don't suppose you could
find many females of that ripeness who have not been
silly over some fool or other."
Tell me about it," said Kitty, nestling closer.
There isn't much to tell, pet;- I wasn't crossed in
love: Iwas onlyseparated from the young person."
"But he made you an offer of marriage; he was a
real lover.
"Oh yes, he did--I suppose he loved me i a way
-as much as could be expected. It wasn't that he
loved Caesar less, but Rome more."
"What do you mean ? who was Caesar?
" Only 'an old Roman, much used for pointing a
moral."
" Oh, something out of a book. But, Carlie, did
his hair curl?

I


114 .WERE YOU NEVER IN LOVE, CARLOTTA?
"Let me consider-to the best of my recollection,
it did."
"That was right ; what became of him ?"
" He took a voyage to China."
"And never came'back, nor sent you any word?"
"Oh yes, he wrote to ie for a twelvemonth or
so, and sent me a lot of rubbish, which I've got
tucked away upstairs somewhere."
"Well, Carlotta, please go on; I want to hear all,
about it ; what did he say ? how did he act?"
"He talked nonsense, acted like a fool ; he under-
took to lecture me ! to tell me what he expected in
his wife, and all that, and I just cut him short-told
him it was evident we were not intended for each
other, and if he was so positive about the pattern
he meant to cut his wife to, he had better look
elsewhere, because I had no idea of being trimmed
and fashioned out of my individuality to suit any-
body."
"Why, Carlie, how could you ? wasn't you afraid
of making him angry ?"
"Afraid ! no, child-I have yet to see the person I
am afraid of-I told hin the truth. I meant to. I
had one more letter,, dated Siam; he said he had
burned all my former epistles, but would keep that
one to discuss in full when he came home."
.Anddid hekep it ?"
"I don't know, child, nor care; he hasn't come
home yet; he went for three years, and tiey are not
up till July. I don't know anything about the arro-

WERE YOUV NEVAR IN LOVE, CARLOTTA? 1ir
gant pest. I never trouble my head about him-any
to speak of."
" But you have not forgotten him; I see that in
your eyes ; they glimmer and glisten ; when he
returns he will come here. I hope I shall see him."
"Pho! child; he will be mighty shy of hunting me
out. I am too sharp for a comfortable sweetheart.
I must say my say."
"Oh yes, he will come, Carlotta, and you will
make up, and be married, and I will see you; I wish
it was July now."
"Silly Kitty ; but what has all this trumpery to do
with my pet's pensiveness, when I found her like
Cathleen O'Moore, who sat in the door one cold
afternoon, to hear the wind blow and to look at the
moon."
"Well, I'll tell you-I don't see why I don't have
any lovers ; I'm not so very ugly, am I? Belle has had
cords and cords of them; she's got a book where she
keeps a list of her offers-=I want -to have one."
" What, an offer-book ! so you shall; we'll go up'
town and buy a beauty, all bound in blue and gold,
and I'll sharpen you a canary quill to write down the
first one ; let's see, who shall it be ?-there's--Bascom
Peacock ; but no:: his hair is too straight ; come, get
your hat and we'll hunt the volume first."
"No, no, I don't want that; I want a real lover,
such as you had."
"Such.as. I had-Heaven forbid! you are quite
too nice to be toned down aid primmed up; oh you


116 WERE YOU NEVER IN LOVE, CARL7OTTA ?
simple little fresh rose-bud ! a lover! you are crying
for a lover, as the baby cried for the moon ; come,
moony ! moony ! come, lovery, lovery ! "
"I don't a bit care if you do make fun of me;
Belle is so unpleasant about it, all the time vaunting
herself; it seems as if I was no account, and truly,
Carlie, it must be ever so nice--a proud, handsome
fellow, with friendly eyes and curly hair, thinking
about one all the while-just devoted, you know."
''"You will sample the pleasantness all in good
time, Pet; don't let that cow-bird fill your innocent
noddle with her unwomanly ambitions. When you do
acquire a lover I hope he will make a husband; and
that is what Belle has not, found for all her offer-
book. By the way, Kitty, you promised to take
possession of the Blue Corner this week ; I shall have
to interfere if you don't hold to your mind ; I would
have done so long ago if you had not begged me
with-tears in your eyes to keep quiet."
"Oh Carlotta, don't make a fuss, please; Belle will
be angry ; I don't mind; I like the spare chamber
just as well-no, not quite so well, but I am comfort-
able enough there, and I can't bear to hurt her feel-
ings. She is accustomed to nice things, and you know
our rooms at school were just as plain as they could
be, so I haven't got what she calls ' Luxurious
habits.'"
"Luxurious habits !' I'll put an end to that trash,
she shall march this very day.,"
"But, Carlotta, I don't see how you can help

WERE YOU NEVER IN LOVE, CARLOTTA ?117

yourself now, because," said. Kitty,'hesitating and
blushing, "she has moved all my clothes and things
and put hers up for good."
"What! and you let her ! Why didn't you call
me?"
" You weren'tA1ere, dear woman-friend. It was
yesterday, when you were all at the flower-show. I
couldn't say a word, it seemed so selfish of me ; and
she was very pleasant about it-really funny. I had
a good laugh, and she danced a hornpipe--tihe pret'
tiest you ever saw-and whistled the tune.' I must
say I felt a little bad, because Henry put me in there,
and said it was my fairy bower. Do you mind the
poem he recited, and the ridiculous gestures ?
Kitty laughed at the recollection, and left her place
to rehearse the scene from memory ; and Carlotta,
looking at her, muttered,
Nasty cow-bird ! I hope Henry will get enough
of Lord Feigning's daughter when he has finished this
episode."
Of course there was nothing to be done without
having what our lawyer calls a." row," of which he
has a devout horror ; though we discussed the topic
at large downstairs, and he hummed his dolefullest
tune, while he listened and ejaculated," By the foot
of Plutarch;" and he commenced a fresh ditty of the
most bewailing minorness, when the beautiful blonde
descended to supper, with her creamy arm around
her dupe's neck, and her melodious laugh musically
dropping upon our ears. Floating up to Carlotta,

I

I

I


I1$ WERE YOU NEVER IN LOVE, CARLOTTAF
she offered a gushing hug, and she was not a whit
abashed when she got the cut direct.
"Why are you so brash, beauty ? " said she.
"There is a time to embrace."
"And also a time to refrain from embracing," re-
plied Carlotta, curtly; "and this is the exact period
spoken of."
Henry rushed desperately out, and presently re-
turned in the last strain of his doleful utterance,
holding out some lovely scarlet strawberries of a new
sort just fruited for the first time, which Miss Bran-
don gracefully appropriated to herself.
"Oh, thank you ! " she exclaimed gushingly.
"How delicious! Come, Miss Carlotta, let us share,
like the babes in the wood, and stain our fingers and
our lips."
" By no means," answered Carlotta; "I never
touch meat which has been offered to idols."

I

Ik

CHAPTER X.

'4J
f
f
Ai

f

THEY THAT GO BORROWING, GO SORROWIlNG.
NE fine day, the two girls, in their cool mus-
lins, strolled up to Lamode's shop to look at
worsteds. At the door Mr. -Nickson met
them, and preferred a request that the young ladies,
including both, but fixing his eyes upon Miss Bran-
don, would drive out with him in the cool of the
evening to Sandy Creek-a famous country resort on
the old ridge road. Kitty declined, pleading an en-
gagement with Henry, viz.: "the chores.'' Belle
loftily accepted.
The shopkeeper, who had been standing  behind
his counter with an air of deferential waiting, while the
gentleman completed his little arrangement and.bowed
himself off,'now brought forth a handkerchief, tempt-
ingly displayed in a highly ornamented box) on the
cover of which a young female in high and low 4nc-


I20 THEY THAT GO BORROWING, GO SORROWING.
ing costume, with flaming cheeks and captivating
smile, was performing a pas-seal in the presence of a
fountain.
Holding up the airy fabric, she stuck her head,
adorned with a false front and horn side-combs, on
one side, and shut up one eye tight while she fas-
tened the other ecstatically upon the bit of goods she
meant to sell.
"Did you ever see anything, ladies, so beautiful as,
that ? It isn't often I venture to bring -such costly
things here to Merry Bank, .there are so few ladies
willing to pay for them ; but directly I saw this lovely
handkerchief (I gotihome from Toptown last night),
I said to Miss Snuffandbark, I'm just going to-show
that to Miss Brandon; she is a real judge, and I do
enjoy having such ladies look at my goods-we don't
ask anything for showing our laces-and the very first
time she ever set foot in my store, I said, says I, there
is a lady that knows the worth of laces. Now do you
drop everything and wait on that lady whenever she
comes in. Those are the very words I spoke. Isn't
it a beauty ! real lace, .1d so cheap. -There, Miss
Kitty, a little bird whispered in my ear there's to be
a grand party in town soon. If you take this I can
duplicate it in a day and a half. There's just one
more like it. I don't mention any names, but it's
so.
o" How much is it ?" inquired-Belle, coolly, not in
the least moved by all the shop-talk, while Kitty felt
uncomfortable, and as if she ought to purchase at

THEY THAT GO BORROWING, GO SQRROWING. 121
once, or at any rate double her worsted order, and
try to think of something else she needed.
"Only fifty dollars. It couldn't be imported for
seventy-five now; and such a lovely pattern. And
I've some point collars for you. Just your style--so
delicate and genteel."
"Oh, thank you ; I never wear those things," re-
plied Kitty, feeling that she would have to buy if
urged. " Madame Devereaux:does not permit us."
Belle made a side griniace as the. 'voluble shop-
woman, mounted some steps to fetch down a box
from a high shelf. "The mouchoir is a pretty thing
eough, and not dear either; smuggled, probably.
I' certainly have it if I had my quarter; unlucky,
that I am impecunious, isn't it ? I might display it
this evening with a killing flourish to Mr. Nickson's
admiring gaze. I dare say he is as good a judgeof
laces as of horse-flesh and women."  Belle Brandon
was a handsome person, but she did not look lovely
with such a bitter, haughty, soulless sneer on her red
lip.
Kitty laughed. "Oh, don't mind the money,
Belle, said she, easily, "I have plenty.
"Thank you, Mignonne ; but I couldn't think of
borrowing,"-...which seemed airather remarkable an.
announcement, considering her. usualfashion of supply
ing her needs.  After a little pressing on Kitty's
part, and pretended reluctance on hersshenali
consented to accept-a loan.
" Well then, Cheri, since yo . will insist, I m s
6

{

'1

I

F.


i

2 TE THAT GO BORROWNG GO SORROWING.
pleasure you; I shall get my quarter next week at the
latest.".
Do by all means, said innocent Kitty, opening
er purse and taking Qut a roll of bills.
Really a most absurd transaction, but shows
what a good little heart you have. I shall always
inkf you every time I carry the thing-almost as
fitwe   agift. It is so very sweet to have pleasant
occasions     ieds' faces associated with one's be-
longingsa don't you think so?"
CA tbs onversation had been carried on n a low
side between te twoell-assorted fiends; while
amoe pretended to be entirely engrossed i  rrang
gher bQof laces, and ostentt'ously bivous of
their presence. Belelenedcressgly over Kitty
~and watched her moving  ngers out of ergreedy
blueeyes while she purred in her earn She ob-
served that beside the roll of bank-notes the purse
contained- nothing else except afew ile  eces and
some pennie.The bilIS counted out were just the
sum needed-fifty dollars. She did not hesitate to
leave "Cherie"'without a farthing ;she never hesta-
ted when  shehhada      gratify  r a project to
accomplish, and reallthe  azif seemed a  e  ut
trifles make destin y
Anwon't you take the cllar, Miss Kitty,
asked Lamode peqsuagiey.
sNst to-day,"  replied  the  child  "My  finances
are at too low an ebb."
'hargeit; your credit is good."

i
'At

A

THEY THAT GO BORROWING, GO SORROWING. 123
'I mean to keep it good,". spoke up Kitty with a
decision quite noticeable in her. 'I never made a
bill in my life, and I should not know how to begin
now."
The shopkeeper replaced the laces without another
word, and Belle carried off the coveted bit of gossa-
mer, in a high state of satisfaction, after some little
time spent in matching the-worsteds for the smoking-
cap of wondrous pattern which ,Kitty was working
for Henry, and which took all her remaining silver,
and the dog's-head slippers which Belle had' com-
menced for a party unknown. The blonde was in an
expansive humor walking homeward, and Kitty
pleased and happy, though her little purse was quite
empty ; and. after they were out of ear-shot, Lamode
said in confidence to Miss Snuffandbark, "I'll give
you my opinion of that girl, free, gratis, for nothing.;
I won't charge a red ! she's first cousin to the'Mac-
Takes, and no kin at all to the MacGives; and she's
fooled the innocent lamb out of her money."
The next morning our guests were seated on the
back stoop, busily engaged in winding. their bright-
colored wools, and making numberless pretty tab-
leaux of themselves in their flowing robes and .easy
attitudes, their white arms glancing here and there
in the stray sunshine which flickered amongst the
grape leaves, Jim in attendance, ready to chase any
wandering ball into unknown corners, busy little Car
lotta, the Martha of our household, stepping-briskly
about in-doors on kitchen cares intent. I was leaning
(g

,;, ;

t
x .

T"
t,
'
a'r .
.
t.
y,_
,3
' i   C               r
a
,f
:r
; 
S xrM
ri
.S          1
i
S ;y'
4f "
4''           ,
E
(3 ,,     j   ,   n
iTi      64          r
}          f
r T1j     YYYYYY
}r                           +
t       6l ,
w          y  "
Jrf         - lr

s
+       -.
i  i
7      LI J
1 '
i
f1  _
r          r


4

124 .THEY THAT GO BORROWING, GO SORRO WING.
lazily against the trellis, listening to Belle, who de-
tailed to Kitty the particulars of her last evening's
drive ; unmercifully ridiculing the elderly roue, whom
she was spreading her choicest lures to entrap into her
matrimonial net ; caricaturing his jockey driving,
horse-talk; imitating his tones and gestures, with such
ludicrous fidelity, that Kitty laughed whether she
would or no; and I, the outsider whom she did not
regard, could look upon her-beautiful, accomplished,
fascinating, as I was forced to see her-with no
eyes of favor, and said inlyr.-
"Her sphere is the stage-the circus-anything but
our old-fashioned home; and I heartily wish-" What
I wished never found voice, for there came such an
astonishing rat-a-tit upon our-brass knocker as must
have wakened every sleeper of the seven, if they
had made a dormitory of our sitting-room. Winnie
being busy, in her usual abbreviated fashion of skirts,
among her poultry, I made haste to open the door,
and Mr. Nickson's smart colored servant delivered
into my care some cards of invitation from a basket-
fuilhe carried in his white-gloved hand.
Mr. Nickson boasted much of choice bachelor
quartersie revelled in at the Folly, an elegant place
just outside of Merry Bank village, which had ruined
its 'builder, and which he was very fond of enlarg.'
ing upon. "I got it for a' song," he would say.'
' Mirrors, gimcracks, and all; you see the fellow
had t sell and I'ot the whip-hatid of hin fools
build-houses and wise men live in then."

r4

C
s       9%  -
s,
.  ,
~.,'
Y           v      r
'[            7    "1
''
-r
j'YMyy"jj
_     Rf  E
R             !
1= _
t }  1
it
i [
'  x
_
-  
i1
,
t'1
% ;4

THEY THAT GO BORROWING, 'O SORROWING. 125
Occasionally, people going' thither of an evening
would find hanging about the place a horsey, turfy,
sport named Knox, who made it his -home, whether
as friend or defendant of the -owner, was not exactly
clear,; but as he tarried much in the stables, lady-
visitors seldom encountered him.- There were, be-
sides, three or four others of his stamp, who certainly
were cronies of the banker, which gentleman. was
extremely chary of appearing with them' in public.
And. sounds of revelry by night were sometimes
audible to belated travellers, in which was _no psalm-
singing--and this conviviality centred in the Folly.,.
Mr. -Nickson frequently promised the young peo-
ple an entertainment,_ which he declared should
"take the rag off anything ever heard of in this old
rat-hole of a place "--meaning our- flourishing vil-
lage., He resolved, also, to dazzle the blue- eyes of
Miss Brandon, whqse practised manners kept him .in
a tittilation of uncertainty as to the.state of her affec-
tions, despite his horses, one of which he had named
in her honor, and his polite assiduities. 'This "feety
champeter,'" as he styled his party, he, decided should
be the crowning charm, nd ,he also turned over in
his mind the, feasibility of a proposal, then and there
Of course, all Merry Bank was on the gui vive, and
gala-dresses were furbished up, glovescleaned, 'and
curls baked for the occasion.  Susan Dusenbury
went herself to Toptown, and brought thence a spick
and span' nea silk for the occasion, andjerusha Pea.
cock -nearly. sewed off the end off her fore-fingerto

4"

k           'r
..t
i           't
i           .
(            '  Z
V   Y
t
3 .TL
L
I
t            i
l -
4           Y
{            '
a .F;

.I

s;


126 THEY THAT GO BOROWING, GO SORROWING.
complete a green tarlatan, ruffled to the waist. Mrs.
Squirmwell was tormented by somethingon the end
of her nose which she called "an excrescence," and
which Mrs. Ramble said was nothing in the world but
a pimple. Mrs. Ramble, who was full of congenial
occupation, going from house to house and .asking
questions, and she and Mrs. Pillhackle quarrelled like
Ferrex and Porrex over the uses and abuses of
amusements, and 'Mrs. Deacon Rotterdam waited on
the minister, as soon as she found her girls were not
likely to get invitations, and requested him to preach
a sermon "agin dancing "-and frequent visits were
paid to Lamode's shop, and golden was the harvest
she reaped during the week of grace the host had
kindly placed between thelhidding' and the festival.
Even our -lawyer was in a- high state of delectation,
though not on account of the approaching, gala-day.
His old favorite and pupil in Greek, which dry dust
he had imbibed like hi mother's milk-Archie Lau-
rie-was coming hoite, on the very day appointed for
the Folly, after an  sence of four years. He was a
great favorite in Merry Bank, where he had lived as
a boy with his rich maiden aunt, at ~her place, the
Quince Bush, whose charming grounds, choice con-
servatories, ferneries, graperies, etc., were the admi-
rration of the country round. Many were the tales
Henry had already told his guests, especially Kitty,
of his young paragon's goodness, his pleasant wit, his
skill in all manly sports, his overflowing fun and
jollity. Of course, the village girls were counting'

)1

?. ,
I
,n
-
',
,
'     '1
,_   ,
: '"      1
'      .
:}

THEY THAT GO B9RRO WING, GO SORROWING. i 27
upon the return of the finished gentleman, who had
been so merry and useful amongst them as a rosy
cheeked youngster; and speculations were rife as to.
the change years might have effected in his person
and his heart.
Belle Brandon flashed up her blue eyes when she
heard the news, glancing triumphantly in the mirror.
She threw back her perfect shoulders, and practised
the artless toss of her- blonde curls, mentally calcu-
lating her chances for a handsome, young husband,
before she settled irrevocably down with 1Vr. Nick
son, whose ugly, old, brdwny-red. face, marked with
crows'-feet, seamed with wrinkles, nearly made her
shudder every time she looked at it. One drawback
tormented her : she had brought to Merry Bank no
party-dresses: and half the effect of her beauty, as
she well knew, depended upon her attire.
The momentous question, "What shall we wear?"
was on the tapis in the Blue Corner, the day of the
invitation.
"I'm sure I don't know what I'm to do," said
Belle sourly; she could be sour now and then, ever
to Mignonne.  "I didn't expect parties in this out-of-
the-way place, and of course I didn't ihmber upimy
trunk with useless apparel."
"I didn't either, for I had none to briig," replied
Kitty merrily; "ewe are not allowed su\ follies at
school, except parlor nights, and we never had any
gentlemen, only the old teachers ; and the em-
broidered muslin my papa sent me, with that point-

I.


f-

128 THEY THAT GO BORROWING, GO SORROWING.
lace bertha in the drawer, and which I wore (the
dress, I mean) at our last examination reception, is
the onlyething Iave at all like a society-gown; and
that stupid Mr./lowfoot, who taught us Hebrew-at
least he-taught some of the girls; I never could learn
a word of it-set his heel through it, and made a
horrid tear in the skirt, and the mice ate up my white
glove' for the ice-cream on them, and I gaveAmy
sash tp Laura Gwin, who begged me for it   i I shall
have to hurry up to Lamode's, and try what I can
find; maybe she will have some bargains for me,
this time."°
Kitty stopped short, and her gleeful face elongated
as she remembered that almost for the first time in
her life she had no money. She flushed scarlet as
she met Belle's glance, whose mind during Kitty's
prattle had been attentively working out the prob-
lem of her own toilette. Recalled by the closing re-
mark and the child's blushing cheeks, her thoughts now
posted in the same direction, and she began charac-
teristically to count the chances of kitty's declining
the invitation to the Folly, in which case she might
borrow some of her best things and shine unrivalled.
"However," she said encouragingly, "muslin is well
enough for you, Mignonne; your style don't need
much dress.; and as for the tear,. Carlotta will be
delighted to exercise her skill upon it,; and really,
gloves are not indispensable, if one has a pretty hand
[glancing at her own dimpled digits], especially in an
out-of-the.way corner like this ; I dare say half these,

4

THEY THAT GO BORROWING, GO SORROWING. 129
country Chloes will appear nude-handed, like frogs
on .a log ; as for me, I must replait my ashes-of-
roses brocade ; I wish you could sew a little better,
I would let you help me ; at any rate, you may take
my knife and rip the seams; that will expedite matters
somewhat; and mind you don't cut the fabric, while
I put almond paste on my face ; I am certain I see
a freckle; that odiosi s sun shone straight into my
eyes last night nearly all the time I was driving ; and
such talk as I listen d to and grinned at-it sets my
teeth on edge now !
"Then why do you listen, Belle; you know quite
well- how to shake people off. I think he is horrid,"
replied the straightforward Kitty.
" When you know more you won't utter nonsense,
and propound ridiculous questions," answered Belie,
shortly, taking up her hand-glass and giving careful
attention to her complexion. "Be,, in with the back
breathss"
"But I promised Henry to go berryingwith him
this afternoon, down by Gully Brook ; wouldn't to-
morrow do as well?") said Kitty, who hated ripping,
and was loath to lose her promised ramble in the
sweet-smelling woods.
" Do leave my dress alone, then !" spoke up Belle
crossly; "I'll take care how I ask you to help me
again. I do despise selfishness, above ground ! "
Kitty lifted the brocade without another word,
though she could not keep down a soft sigh, as she
looked out on the green fields, beyond which she

I

I' ,


130 THEY THAT GO BORROWING, GO SORROWING.
seemed to see Gully Brook dashing and splashing
over its rocky bed; and she cut away in silence for
some time at the close, fine threads, which required
the nicest care, Belle never moving or looking in
her direction.  Kitty occasionally felt her friend's
yoke a-little heavy, but had no courage to cast it off.
It was so necessary to her comfort to be on good
terms with all around her; she couldn't bear to have
even Winnie scowl at her ; which, to say true, the old
creature rarely did, no matter how nimbly rampageous
were her tantrums. She had stolen many side-looks-
at the blonde, and was just making up her mind to
say something good-humored and mollifying, when
there came a brisk, lively knock at the door, and she
sprang up, glad of any event to break up the situ-a-
tion, and ,any excuse to slip away from the hateful
ripping to her dear woman-friend and comforter.
Henry stood on the landing  like a benignant
"slave of the lamp," bearing a huge square box in
his arm, which he deposited on the floor, taking off
his-hat and bowing low to Kitty.
"Remember the porter, miss," said he ; "for by
the foot of Plutarch, 'tis a warm day to be toting
bundles-here's a package all the way from New
Orleans, and here also is a pair of sharp black eyes
peeping over my shoulder, as full of curiosity as they
are of mischief, and the woman who manages them is,
all impatience to inspect and-pronounce upon these
contents. Oh, I see ; you are entertaining company
in your Blue Corner, which is hospitable of you--

4

THEY THAT GO BORROWING, GO SORROWING. 131
Miss Brandon, your servant-comes-vous-portizes-
lous ? tres-beans.
Belle replied with a musical laugh and very perfect
French to his Anglo-Franco salutation';. though she
perfectly comprehended his marked manner.  She
also understood the legal maxim, " Possession is nine
points of the law," and wa not a whit abashed, and
she secretly and adroitly h id her pounce-box and
wiped her anointed face on her handkerchief.
Kitty dropped on her knees' at once, clapping her
hands joyfully. " How good of you to bring it ! from
papa, dear, kind papa!"
Her eager fingers were alltoo trembling to undo
the stiff cords, and she glanced about for the knife
she had dropped in such a hurry.
"Not so fast! young lady," remarked Henry
quietly, catching her hand; " not so fast, if you please;
those stout strings are just the things for my grape-
vines; therefore we will not waste them. I'll spare
your fingers."
He mischievously took time to untie all the hard
knots, enjoying Kitty's pokings and impatience
While we were all guessing, wondering, and exclaim-
ing, who should walk into the Blue Corner but Mrs.
Ramble ; as usual, without the ceremony of knocking;
and seating herself with her customary aplomb, she
took.out her snuff-box, and pulling down her specta-
les from their resting-place amongst the ragray
everlastings, she remarked, as she peered curiously:
at the lawyer's occupation:

Y
_1


s

132 7TIEY THAT GO BORROWING, GO SORROWING.
"I declare for't, Carlotty! it seems as if that mgst
be Pandora's band-box you've got there by the hub-
bub you make over it. All of you was talking to onct,
so I 'sped you didn't hear. me knock ; mebbe I did
,rap light.  New  Orleans, Adams Express Co."
[spelling out the address.] Miss Kitty Clayton; oh!
from her pa, I see ; well, I'm'.kinder glad I hopped'
over. I dessay there's somethin' nice inside ; I don't
know. as there's any harm in lookin' at putty things ;
you'd as soon I'd see 'em as not, hadn't you, Kitty ?
you're a dear little creatur ; you'll be an old woman
yourself bimeby. You mustn't set your affections on
the perishable, beggarly elements of this fleeting world.
' Remember the days of darkness,. for they shall be
many.'
I opine that Mrs. Ramble must have seen the arri-
val of the box, and had hastened over to the opening ;
I'm strengthened in this belief by the fact that little
ever came into the Red Cottage which she did not see ;
and that reminds me, it was only last week that she
dispatched her son Bill with a wash-hand basin to
our front door, with this enigmatical request:
"Mother wants some of that ere what come home in
the bag." Moreover, on this occasion, her snuffy hands
presented a parboiled appearance; and she was
odorous of dish-water,as if she had dropped a neces-
sary domestic occupation in a hurry.
At last the stubborn knots yielded ; the cover was
lifted, ad;d the first thing which caught Kitty's eye
was 4 letter, which she eagerly seized and kissed, her

.3I(
r I
'3 4

THEY THAT GO BORROWING, GO SORROWING 133
cheeks flushing, and her eyes filling. Mr. Clayton
said: "As his daughter was staying withhis old friend,
he wished her to do him credit in her appearance, as
well as conduct; and he had selected some finery,
such as he supposed girls loved, and he. hoped she
would enjoy it, and be happy, before the days when
she should have to say, ' I have no pleasure in them ;'
and enjoined upon her to be always the true, honest,
faithful girl he believed her, for the sake of her dead
mother ;" then leaving off abruptly, he signed himself,
" your father, Paul Clayton," and underneath, in a
postscript., as if an after-thought, .he added a few
scrawled words : " I ani glad you have found a friend
whom you like; she seems a handsome woman, much
older and ought to be much wiser than my simple
Kitty; and so you love your old father ; well, I am
glad of it. Sometimes I think I will come on and
fetch you 'away. I have thought of you often, since
I read your last, sitting by me. at table, fetching my
slippers, sewing on my buttons,; but I could not take,
care of a girl. I should -not .know what to do with
you. You are best off where you are. Perhaps next
year I'll come and see you ; but not now ; I cannot
leave ; my business wil. not permit ; -e a good child."
Kitty hid the note in her bosom, .ith a little sob,
and sat quietly by, with her thoughtful face in her
hands ; while Carlotta laid out, one by one, the hand-
some gifts so 'opportunely arrived. Jim came purring
along with his tail in the air, and rubbed his head
sympathetically against her. She seized upon him and


134 THEY THAT GO BORROWING, GO SORROWING.
hugged him close in her arms; she longed to pour out
her Love in caresses-her pent-up love, which her
father had never sought.
Is the nice papa coming to his little girl ?" inquired
Belle in a~ lotr voice, while the others were busy
about the- box; she .had been eagerly watching the
child, and determined to know. at once, because if he
proposed to appearron the scene she might find rea-
son to shape quite differently her conduct.
"What does he say about the bit of ugliness we
dispatched to him by post-?"
"Not much," answered Kitty unconcernedly. In
fact, she had not given special attention to the part of
the missive of most importance to her friend. "There
are no secrets,; you can read, if you like. He is not
coming this year. I didn't believe he would; and he
won't."
"So it seems," replied Belle, tossing back the
letter after a hasty perusal ; and she looked queerly,
at Kitty, while she mentally added, "'Much older !'
You shall pay me for that, cherie; and I must
'inadvertently marry the banker.'"
There were two dresses-one of blue satin, the
other- of white crape, soft and rich, like wrinkled
cream; a box of gloves, a pearl and parchment fan,
a set of elegant handkerchiefs, a silver bouquet-holder
set'-.with turquoises, and a very fanciful mouchoir
ring-a tiger's claw, which sprang upon its prey and
held it fast; beneath the whole lay a small casket of,
purple morocco,- which Carlotta put into Kitty's

THEY THAT GO BORROWING, GO SOXRROWING. I35
hand, with a little finger squeeze. She knew for
certain that it contained something precious. She
opened it, and lo ! a sparkling diamond, in foreign
setting, and bearing within the shank the letters
"P. C. to my wife."  Her mother's ring ! she had
often' seen it upon her father's finger, and now it was
hers-her very own.
" Oh ! my dear papa!" she exclaimed raptur
ously, "how nice! how kind !" And she put it on,
feeling as if she had gained a talisman--a token of
great good. Oh ! how many times she pressed it to
her lips in the after days, when her heart was heavy,
and troubles shut out joy. It was like a message of
love and strength from her mother in heaven. Mean-
while Miss Brandon was darting envious glances from
'her blue eyes at the costly fabrics Kitty had almost
forgotten in her single-hearted joy. Her mouth es,
pecially watered at the shining satin of cerulean tint,
whose heavy softness quite fascinated her.  She
had worn such a robe one night to Wallack's, when
she met there Mr. Cragenfels, whom she did not.
marry.
" I would fain know of Heaven," she muttered,
"why yon fool should wear a suit of satin ?" and
with the words there came also a memory of a
merry-hearted youngster named Chandy, who was
accustomed to take large liberties with Billy Shakes.
She threw off the whole train of disagreeable reflec-
tions, and fixed- a spiteful glance upon the little Kit-
ty's' childish face and drooping figure, sitting on her


136 TIfEY THAT GO BORROWING, GO SORROWING..
low stool so absently, with her ring at her lips, and
her eyes gazing afar off with their look of sorrowful,
yearning.
"Superb enough for a duchess-or for me ! and
to be cut down to that snip! Reductio ad absurdum !
Icould put it on and look as if it had been woven
expressly for me; but that child ! Paugh ! a ridicu-
lous misfit and shameful misbestowal !  She shall
never go to the Folly dressed out in all this finery,
and me in my old ashes-of-roses--never ! - I won't'
bear it ! Evidently some good gifts are gone astra
I must plan a way to bring them back into their
proper channel."
She frowned. upon her offending brocade, which
was handsome enough, as were sundry others in her
collection, and pushed it out of sight in disgust..
"That's a real putty little foot of your'n," said
Mrs. Ramble, who. was shrewdly watching the im-
patient tap-tap of said foot on the carpet; "real
small, but I 'spose you pay just as much for your
shoes as other folks."
" Oh !" replied.Belle, with superb modesty, with-
drawing it not from 1Mrs, Ramble's eyes, but Hen-
ry's, which she became aware were, directed upon it,
"I was not conscious that my slipper was in society,
or that there was a chiel among us takin' notes.! ",.
She rose and stood by the bed upon which. Car-
lotta had placed the things. "This is a pretty ma-
terial, Kitty," said she, taking up the satin. "What
a pity it is got rose-color-bring out your charming

THEY 771AT GO BORROWING, GO SORROWING. -17
blushes so effectively. It seems to a looker-on in
Venice as if satin might be a trifle old and heavy for
your style ; you are such a little fairy, you aught to.
be always floating about in white gauze. Light fab-
rics are the only fabrics for angels and sixteen ;
better stick to them while you can. Satin goes with
majesty," throwing a look at her shoulder and well-
developed stature reflected in the mirror behind her,
and a merry glance. at those about her, as if she
acknowledged and despised her own vanity ; which
pretty tableau I privately considered meant for Henry
alone. " We and us are the only ones who may ap-
propriately array ourselves in the garb of royalty."
Carlotta turned her eyes quizzically upon- the
speaker, but for once she agreed with her. She took
the blue Lustrina from her hands, folded it carefully,
and restored it to its brown-paper wrapping.
"Kitty, you shall wear the crape first, with your
point bertha. It will be the perfection of rare sim-
plicity. As Belle very judiciously puts it, satin is
rather heavy for your salad days. She and I are
ripe enough for it, but we haven't got it. You have.
There will come a time when it will be just the thing,
As a part of your trousseau,,,for instance: it would be
proper for a recepLion dress," she added, ,reflectively,
"with-a--pearls-; and I hope I shall have the pleas-
ure of arraying you !
"A long look ahead ; longer than A. S. Roe's,"
said Kitty, sighing, and making a rosy mouth. "I
r'ust get a lover first. You shall take it, Carlie ; and


138 THEY THAT GO BORRO  LVG, GO SORROWVG.
when the sailor comes home;" whispered Kitty, with
her armsabout her woman-friend.
"Nonsense-! me! Did you ever see a thunder
cloud walking round ? Well, wait till you see me in
blue' garment. I've got through lovering. . You
haven't begun ; therefore lay aside the pretty'stuff
till curly-head appears," replied Carlotta in the same
tone=.
"Law!" said Mrs. Ramble, "Kitty! why she's
just the girl tp get one real good, stick-tight of a fel-
lar. Some girls has beaux enough, but they don't
seem to have the -knack of turnin' any on 'em into a
husband. Do they, Belle?"
Miss Brandog appeared not to hear.
Point lace is rather ancient for Cherie, n'estpas?
Don't you think a fall of'blonde would better suit a
schogirl?. s.= much lighter and more gossamer."
In fancy she saw the exquisite bertha about her own
shoulders over the coveted blue satin.
Not at all," replied Carlotta, with projt deci-
sion; ":especially as Kitty happens to possess the
one-very handsome; and can't get the other with-
out useless trouble. I don't suppose Lame-has a
yard of real blonde in her shbp;and if she had loads
of it, it would not signify; Kitty should wear what'
her papa has sent hem  Won't you, pet ?."
Kitty smiled, as did we alleven Mrs. Ramble, at
Carloita's brisk, positive way, and the little spice of
hasty brashness her contact with the blonde was
quite stare to bring out.

THEY ,THAT GO BORROWING, GO SORROWING.l 3*
" Hadn't you better order a cap and spectacles to
complete the costume ? " sneered Belle. "You out-
of-the-way people do have the most antediluvian
ideas. 0 tempora / 0 mores / as we used to say at
school."
"Esto guod else videris, as we used to say. I'll
translate, if you wish."
"Oh, thank you ; it isn't necessary ; we learned all
those trite things out of the great dictionary, where,
I suppose, you found them," replied Belle, whose
temper was likely to get the better tof her in Carlotta's
neighborhood, if anywhere.
Carlotta was fond of saying, "Human nature is
sure to caper if you poke it ;" and she did poke it
pretty often when such characters as Miss-iBraxklbn's
were-thrust in  her way s
Mrs. Ramble's sharp eyes had taken in the whole.
""Ha! ha 1" laughed she. "Carlotty is enough for
you. You don't get ahead of her none.i' dot
pretend to understand'your hog-Latin, but I know
she's enough for you. .,You wouldn't shirk the hand}
some lace if you saw your way clear to wearin' don't
I'll-be bound."'
Belle particularly disliked Mrs.amble--her snuffi"
ness, her pious talk, and her inquisitive cunning,
which" keeked through ;ivr other folkwi' nicead
sly inspection." She always- gave-her the  cut direct
when she could. She turned haughtily on her now
glad ofsomebody upon whom to wreak her diap-
pointment and envious vexation.

I

'4


140 THEY THAT GO BORROWING, GO SORROWING.
"If you are addressing me, madam, my name is
Miss Brandon; and you will oblige me by making no
more remarks upon my affairs.' It is simply ridicu-
Slous fpr you to pretend to discuss topics of which you
know nothing. Neither dish-washing n r scandal are
on the tapis, consequently you must bd entirely out
of your latitude."
"Law!. dIu tell ! massy me ! hadn't' you better
get up in a chair? Well, what queer eyes you got !
They make me think of the old wolf that et up Goody-
two-shoes; and hyenas and smoke that goeth up out
of the pit ; andfire and brimstone. . Ain't it queer
now? I went to ee that Potter woman, that pizened
all her relations, and I vum if she didn't have just
such a shine deep down in her eyes as you got?
You make me feel kinder chilly--you do so."
She took off her spectacles and replaced them in
her shagreen case.
" Good-by, Kitty," said she. "I've enjoyed see-
ing your pretties. I seem to feel glad you've got
em; they'll become you,-young, and sweet, and
good. I guess if anybody ought to get what they
like, it's such as you; 'for behold thou art fair-thou
art pleasant.' 'Tain't a good plan to be sassy to no-
body. You never are. We are all poor, dependent
critters. I've a great notion to run up to the Folly
jist a purpose to ,seyou sprigged out ; you'll look
so spry. Well, I can't stay a second -hardly. I'm
goin' down in the shank of the evenin' along to Miss
Rotterdam's. I'll fetch you one of their new ban-

0

THEY TIIAT GO BORROWING, GO SOR OWING. '141
tams; they promised it to me, and I'l gie it to. you;
you kniow how to treat folks. The :wic ed. stand on
ylppr knolaces. She'll get a plumpin' all, sometime,
you see"
The closing remarks were a confidence, as Miss
Brandon had loftily withdrawn from the neighborhood
of the rusty bombazine, and was looking out of the
window with her back to us all, though whether she
Was digesting Mrs. Ramble's unvarnished: opinion'of
her visual organs, or ruminating upon ways and
means, I am unable to say.

o
i
1

L

I


"i SHALL DB A LADY FOREVER."

CHAPTER XI.

" I SHALL BE A LADY          FO  EVER."
"Full busjgy Arachne weaved wos
To knit her nettes and her wobbis slie   -
Therewith to catch a silly little midge or flie."

LL the rest of the day Belle was moody and
snappish. When' Kitty.offered to resume
the ripping,.be - aat   the dress out of her
hand, and threw it under the bed; and turning her
back upon the astomshe  girl, and shaking fretfully
her shoulders, she curled herself in a discontented
heap on the.sofa, and said: "Do go along and leave
me alone." Kitty colored, and an angrf speech rose
to her lips, but she checked it in time : her life train-
ing had practically taught her "least said soonest
.mended;" and going quickly frpm the Blue Corner,
she shut the door, ran downstairs, out through the
kitchen, ' never stopping till she reached that haven of

peace, the barn, where she came upon Henry, assum-
ing the Pecksniffian costu me, preparatory to his rural
labors, and after obliging Jim to jump through her
hands about fifty times, which feat he always accom-
plished with flattened ears and a scowling countenance,,
she entered heartily into the "chores, and soon for-
got all causes of annoyance,
The next morning Bellemet Kitty at her door.
She was faultlessly-attired in the sheerest and clearest
of muslins; iand her.handsome features were radiant
with gushing innocence. She kissed dear Migiionne
on- both cheeks, and descended the stairs with'one
beautiful arm around her waist. At breakfast she
was gossipy, witty, amusing, delightful. That deal
happily over, she enticed Kitty up to the Blue Corner,
and shut carefully the door. "Cherie," she com-
menced, winding the child's curls around her fingers
"how abundant your hair is ! positively, it ia thep&amp;
cise color of that Miss MacKenzie's, who was so run
after in Newport last year. Everybody raved over
her graces, and she had no end of verses;written;in
her praise. Your tresses are her very shade, let me
see! [poising her head. admiringly one side] I rely
must fabricate for you a garland for the fete. %'A-rosy
crown 'll twine for thee, of Flora's-richest treasure:
for Flora read Carlotta, who has some darling garden
sweets which  it will-be  a  pleasure for;ine to  .ullshnsna
with some of her shining ivy leaves FIl transforn y
Mignonne into a Hebe."
Playing thus with the long ringlets, and smoothly

,.F"

14.3

r


nI  '. -

X44

"P SHALL DE A LADY FOREVER."

purring, she came at length to the business of the
time. /'jDo you know, Cherie, I've been thinking
perhaps Ihad better offer to take that satin off your'
hands; you will look like your, great-grandmother in
it, if you ever attempt to put it on ; and as to laying
it aside, perfect fudge I with your-father's wealth and
munificence, and the quantities of things he is perpet-
ually sending you. The standing mystery to me is,
that I did not have a beneficent parent of my own; I
could makedone so useful. It;seems that all the good
gifts are bestowed o inconsequent recipients who can't
put them to proper service. Just think, Kitty I I am
an orphan--nobody to love . me, nobody to send me
anything."
Kitty was very sorry for her, not so much for the
words as. the hopeless, dejected manner of them, :and
she really felt as if there must be a great wrong in
getting so much, when poor Belle needed everything;
and she put her arms around her neck and kissed her.
*I can't seg what ever induced your papa to post
on such an old-time piece of goods; nobody wears
satins now."
Kitty'took away her arm.  "My father always
sends me handsome things. The girls said so. There
weren't such pretty organdies and linens in tire whole
scheolas mine. I remember particularly how much,
ILurGin liked my silk stockings ; they just fitted
her4'
Intent as 'Belle was upon an object, full of guile, she.
could not help a real honest laugh at this unconscious

I SHALL BE A LADY FOkEVER."

145

revelation of Kitty's careless innocence, in which the
child gleefully joined, happy to reflect anybody's
good-humor without taking trouble to hunt out the
joke.
"I can readily believe it, Cherie; but in this. in-
stance you must confess he has a little misjudged.4
Carlotta, the self-elected arbitress of your affairs, said,
you know, that it was not suitable, and folded it villy-.i
nilly outt of your sight ; and she did wisely. The
crape is perfection, and' Ilong to see my Mignonne ar-
rayed in it: full, low body, and Marie Louise sleeve,
and my garland of ivy'and flos adonis. Therefore,
if it 'suits you, perhaps I had. better take the heavy
fabric.  I couldn't get- anything decent here if I
should try. I know my good Kitty would not feel
right to go fie to Lanagan's ball, and have her poor
Belle shabby. I judge others by myself. 1 could
not endure such a though-, but it is a weakness of
mine to lavish too much sympathy on my friends. I
feel pretty sure the satin will fray, but I will make it
with a cord, and I can get three or four good wears
otit of it, always provided some Merry Bank Slow-
foot does -not, tread on it. I have laughed half a
dozen tines at your description of that contrete.s.
I should have liked to see your scathing indignation
and his downcast shamefacedness.   I suppose we
have settled our little business, haven't we, preciousP
and vrai ed / I look upon the manner of our'prep.
aration f } this "'Folly as it Flies ' as aii especial in-
terpositi-n of Providence."
7'

I'.1


N       .-,

146

"I SHALL BE A LADY FOREVER."

Notwithstanding Belle's soft purring, with all her
claws in velvet, Kitty hesitated.. Even she, simple-
ton as she was, could not be insensible to the richness
of the, costly satin, although she knew as little as a
girl could of money values ; her abundant allowance
was disbursed for trifles, and quite as often for her
friends', including her chum Laura Gwin, as for her
own pleasure ; and the clothing bills were made up and
forwarded with the others by Madame Devereaux.
She reflected that Carlotta would not approve such a
disposition of her papa's gifts; it seemed like slight-
ing his kindness, but then it was only a dress, after
all; there .were plenty more where that came from;
Belle would look lovely in it ; she liked seeing her
friends look lovely, and as artfully put before her, it
would be selfish to refuse, and she had no funds.
What a pity there had not been also a cheque in the
box! then Belle could have the satin in welcome, and
n t ing disagreeable to be said about it. Some coax
in of Carlotta-oh yes, Carlotta certainly would
cold her-she must try to make her see that it could
not be helped, and-ah! now came the rub !-her
heart rose up in hei throat and choked her, while she
faintly brought forth the words, looking down and
blushing like a culprit:
"I must ave some money, you know,, Belle,
and if you could pay me a little directly. It is non-
sense to lay it up for the great occasion Carlie talks
about, when I have got no lover; .so if you will give
me enough to do for now"-

" I SHALL BE A ._L ADY FORE VER."

"4

The blonde, had been eagerly watching -and impa-
tiently awaiting her decision, while she mused;and she
hastily seized the goods which they had had spread out
on the bed side by side with the wrinkled cream, and
folding it hurriedly, she stepped quickly and thrust it
into her trunk, which shelocked, and brought away
the key in her pocket.
"'There: that is consummated!" exclaimed she,
airily; "who says we are not business women.? You
should thank me for putting the stuff to use- you
and I must make a sensation dancing in the same set,
of course we shall enter the room together; we will
illustrate for- the benefit of these country folks' the
two styles of beauty, the petite and the queenly; and
just fancy me twirling in the. mazy (i suppose I can't
get through the evening without it), encircled by the
arm of the graceful, gallant Nickson. I hope Ae will
wear gloves,! his hands make me creep: files and
graters are silky-satin compared to them. By the
way, Mignonne, don't mention our private matters to
anybody, Carlotta especially. I should like to sur-
'prise her.; a' capital joke, you see ; and besides, she
might make unpleasant remarks to you, thoughVcertes
I don't perceive 'any reason for it. But there's Rno
telling what she may do ; rules and conventionalities
don't fetter her free-soul. -How you can laugh when.
you see her round eyes as she espies 'us ! =I feelthat
we shall be gorgeous. Blue is my color," etc.
Coaxing, wheedling, purring, she managed a ,rom-
ise from foolish Kitty to keep her secret, and then

a'


148.  "I SHALL BE A LADY FOREVER."

dismissed her with droll talk; merry laughter, and a
little practice of some fancy steps she had shone in
long ago, when her rose-colored slips scarcely reached
her knees, and which she executed with as lithe a grace
as if the far-off childhood were a yesterday ; but never'
a word of money. "Base is the slave who pays,"
and Belle Brandon was innocent of such baseness.
An hour or two afterward, she came downstairs,
dressed for a walk, with a brown-paper package
under her arm.
"Where .are you going?" asked Kitty, who was
nursing Jim on the door-steps, trying to feel suite
that although she hal not gotten her money, she
certainly should get it directly, notwithstanding the
fact that in h9r superabundant fun the handsome
debtor had forgotten it.
Up to the dress-maker's, Mignonne;" Bellepassed
hurriedly on. Kitty hastily pushed Jim out of her
lap and/followed to the gate  " Belle,'' faltered she,
looking and feeling as if she were committing a crime,
but nerved up- to the utterance by dire necessity;
"Belle, I wish you would pay me, at least a part.,
before you go; I must also get my dress made."
" But I cannot, Mignonne: I am impecunious, abso..
lutely a pauper I You must not seize on your fellow..
itrwasnthe ickd elo     hoit    htadCei
servant, saying, 'pay me what thou owest,' because
it Was the -wicked, fellowwodi  htadChre
has not the heart to be wicked."
How cant that be? y   said your quarter was
due ; and I have been waiting."

4

r ,

I

" I SHALL BE A LADY FOREVER."       I
"How long, pray ?-,an eternity has not passed
since the transaction ; and besides, the cheque isn't
always punctual to a minute ; just as soon as it ar-
rives, my precious Kitty shall surely come into her
own again, like .Bonnie Prince Charlie."
" But, Belle, forgive me ; I am qtiite certain I saw
the cheque .in the letter Henry handed you-at dinner.
You opened it, remember, the bit, of paper dropped
out, I picked it up and. restored it. to you. I am
sorry, dear Belle, to be troublesome, but I don't see
how I am to get ready for the party without- it; a
little will do ; I don't value the money--you know
that ; I am not stingy; and if I could help it, I would
never ask- you ; you might keep it all, and. welcome;
I know papa will send me enough before long;, but
you see I can't go if I don't have some now."
Belle actually blushed, and for an instant. looked
almost ashamed: but it was only an instant.; she had
so long ago contracted a habit of strangling her good
impulses in the birth., that they gave her- little trouble
now. She hated to part with money at-any time;
she believed Kitty would not betray her ; if she
could not get the dress made, she would, of course,
stay at home and leave the field clear, and finally
she justified her conduct by the thought that the
child might obtain all she needed, by applying to the
Red Cottage' folks ; and if they dared mention the,
transaction to her, which was not likely, why then,
"business, necessity'"-and: that was all there was
about it.

4


00

: I SH4LL BE A LADY FOREVER."

"That cheque ! oh, that 'was a mere bagatelle--
gone. immediately, ,lie the sparks which fly upward,
or the spirit of the beast, which goeth downward,
You 'nust wait, child ; I actually have no money;-
besides, I expect to make a bill with that hideous
Snuffandbark, and why can't yodo go and do likewise;
that is the command, you know."
A bill ! with a perfect stranger ! ask to be
trusted ! I couldn't do it."
"Well, then, ask dear Heinrich'; he will 'give
you the key of his chest if you will marry him, him,.
him," hummed Belle, provokingly.
"I would stay at home forever, first ! " burst out
Kitty, her eyes- filling; "you are}unkind to speak
of such a horrid thing! "
" I don't see the barbarity, Cherie, but if you are
so monstrously delicate, I. am afraid I cannot propose
any way out of your dilemma.MI had supposed I.
was to be clapped on the shoulder, like a thief by the-
sheriff, I would never have offered to take the trum -
pery. If you are sorry for your excellent bargain
and wish to have it back, say so, and there's an end ;
of course it is of no consequence to you whether or
no Igo to the party ; you can have your good time. "4
Belle, you are too cruel ! I. don't care about the
money now-you need not pay me-no ! never !--in
the wide world ! I wouldn't touch it !"
Bursting into tears, Kitty leaned over the post,
and,°covered her face with her hands, and Miss Bran-
don shut -the gate with a wicked little slam-bang,

I SHALL BE A LADY FOREVER."       I t
and walked gracefully away ; and " Mignonne " re-
turned pretty soon, very slowly, and sat down again,
and took up Jim, who bore no malice for his hasty
dismissal, but pure his loudest, and rubbed his head
sympathetically against her hot cheeks. Her fit'of
passion was over; it subsided into a sorA feeling of
injury, a friendless, outside, chilly, comfortless state
of mind, which most of us can remember to have ex-
perienced at some time in our lives, as I suppose there
are few who have not been outwitted by some clever
one, and laughed at.
During dinner Henry made some joking 'allusion
to the approaching festivity.  Kitty colored up and
said, " I'm not going to the frolic, Henry; I've con-
cluded not."
Our lawyer looked closely at her, took note of her
red, swollen eyes, and scarlet cheeks. He kept his
thoughts to himself, 'but though we were at table, and
he had a tempting morsel of chicken on his fork, he
laid it down and commenced humming "Why should
we mourn "-tune'"China," as if it had been a funeral
occasion.
Carlotta, brisk, little black-eyed Carlotta, ex-
claimed in astonishment,' Not 'going, Kitty ! when
you have such beautiful things lying upstairs beg-
ging to be worn ; what has taken the child~! I never
heard such nonsense ; my pet develop whims!1 Oh
no ; leave them to cow-birdg-who will exhaust the
supply.
Carlotta had been flying about all the morning like

r
}':
i -.
. f2 _
r.° s ,
irr
;
, .

j

:1:


s
152    "Z SHALL BE A LADY FOREVER."
a little honey-bee, and hadn't taken time yet even
to look at Kitty, so busy was she in pouring out
tea. We always have with our dinner green tea at the
Red Cottage, one sniff of which would put life into a_
dying woman, to say nothing of its exquisite flavor,
which soothes, exhilarates, and brings out all the fine
points of our nature; we are never so chatty and con-
versable as at dinner. Mrs. Ramble is fond of bor-
rowing our tea. "jKitty, my love," said she, setting
down the old-fashioned silver teapot with a heron
engraved upon it-" Kitty! you've been crying; tell
me directly what is the matter."
" Now, Carlotta,. don't speak cross," burst out-
Kitty, going round and falling upon her woman-
friend's neck, whose tone had been a little curt, but
with the child in her mind only as sufferer, her
thoughts indignantly covering Belle Brandon's hand-
some self as the actor. "Now you don't know how
bad you make me feel; I think I am very unhappy."
So what could Carlotta 'do, but push away her
chair from the table, take her darling into her arms,
and comfort her, then and there, and Henry went off
in a hurry, without waiting for dessert. , We heard
him away beyond the gate humming the consoling
strains of a "doleful dump; " and also the lowing of
the little sea-cow, who failed to attract his .ttention.
Of course Carlotta set herself1to find out £he cause
of the hidden grief. Kitty refused to confess, and as
all her pressing only added to her misery, without
any other effect than the little head-shake, and " I

i
i
.
i~
'  ,

"I SHALL BE A LADY FOREVER."        153
promised not to tell, Carlie, so 'don't nake me," she
dried her pet's tears, and hushed her like- a baby.
After seeing her comfortably busy with sorMe red
berries, tiny shells and mosses, and a cross -f card-
board, in which dainty work sloe was exceeding
skilful, our Martha went up town on her round of er-
rands. Stepping into Lamode's, that gossipy shop-
keeper asked her how she liked the beautiful handker-
'chief Miss Brandon had got of her, "such a bargain;
adding, "Miss Clayton is a charming young lady,. and
so free with her money. 'Tisn't everybody would lend
fifty dollars as easily; just pulling it out and throw-
ing it into her friend's hand, like nothing at all.' But
they say her fathertis awful rich ; so I suppose it comes
as easy as it goes ; well, it must be nice to have what
you want without stitching it out of your poor fin-
gers."
'As very- little was elicited by her information, she
went on another topic. "What a beautiful dress it
is that Miss Brandon has got for the great party, to be
sure ! she had. it here this morning; in fact, she is
stairs now with Miss Snuffandbark."
Carlotta knew in an instant what it was, and she
replied carelessly,
"Ah! the blue satin?"
"Yes, indeed,'and so particular as she is about
the fit; she is alittle bothersome to work for on account,
of knowing so much herself ; but she's got a beautiful
bust; my head-woman is hard at work, and you may
be sure we shall do our prettiest to please any c .

i


.J.

i54

" 1 SHALL BE A -LADY FOREVERR"

towers you send us ; we know what real gentlefolks
are. Won't you take those tidies, Miss Gorton ?
they're cheap.as dirt, and a perfect'*imitation of Hon-
iton."
After Carlotta had gone, Lamode said to Miss
Snuffandbark, "I was determined to let them know
about that handkerchief, because you mark my words,
that fifty dollars will never get back into the little
fool's purse, if the other one can get rid of paying it.
She's an old hand, she is ; I must keep the right side
of her-if she's going, tcy marry Nickson; maybe a
good customer, I wonder what the proud' thing 'd
say if she knew he spent. half his evenings here
amongst my girls, as sociable as old cheese-he isn't
proud."
"Kitty," said Carlotta, after admiring the com-.
pleted cross, which was indeed very artistic, "let's take
another look at your pretties. It is time to set about
making up your dress-at least to decide which of
the-two you will choose ; of course you need not take
my say-so about it."
".Oh ! I'm going to wear the crape, if I go-but I
shan't go."
"Don't make that silly remark again, unless you
wish to vex'1 me," answered Carlotta. "I shall not
hear of your staying at home. Have you forgotten
your desire for a lover ? no ? I thought not. You
needn't hang your pretty head and pout. I've made'
a privatearrangement with the fates to have you find
one in that ball-room  I expect to introduce you to.

"I SHALL BE A LADY FOREVER."

I

155

my male pet, Archie.   I hope he won't fail to
come."
Still talking, and pretending riot to notice Kitty's
flushing cheeks or her unwillingness, she put one arm
around her, and drew her upstairs, the poor child
feeling as if she was about to be- executed, but hav-
ing no power to cross hwo an-friend's strong will.
Upon opening the bureau   wer, only the crape was
there. Carlotta nade no remark, but taking it out
as if it was the sole object of her attention, she laid
it in attractive folds upon the bed, and fetching the
bertha, she placed it gossamer-fine' upor it; then the
fan and handkerchief; the bouquet-holder ; a pair of
tiny white, gloves. The child watched her motions
silently, her flushing color coming and going, while
her breath wafted unevenly through her parted lips;
finally diving into the bottom of the drawer, she
fished up the little porte-monnaie, saying gayly:.
"Shakespeare advises, 'put money in thy purse.
It appears that you have been taking it out of yours.
It is as lean as hungry charity."  '
"I know it," rejoined Kitty, trying to laugh ;
"' who steals my purse steals trash,' but I shall have
it full again before long."
"Excuse me, darling, but I should like to know
what you have done with all your money ; I know
you had plenty when you came, and you have bought
no expensive articles here."
"Now,' Carlie, it's no -use asking me," replied
Kitty, resolutely shaking her small head and pursing

I

}
r  '          Fi
-                 'S
-n                i           w             "
_                            .i


156

S[" SHALL BE A LADY FOREVER,"

her lips ; " I cannot tell you, at least I'd rather not ;
and I know my dear woman-friend won't make me,
when she sees that it pains me. It's gone, and, there
is an end -of it." -.
A little silence ensued, and Carlotta stood thought-"
fully -smoothing the folds of the wrinkled cream.,
Suddenly shesaid:
"EKitty, you shall tell me one thing : Did Belle-
Brandon beg, borrow,- buy, or steal your blue
satin?"
The child, astonished out of her senses, answered,
"'Why, Carlie, who told you she-had got it?"
"Oh, I heard of it ;. a bird of the air carried the.
matter, and.as I do. know -it, you are absolved from
your promise of secrecy ; and you shall tell me how
she managed it."
With the weight off, Kitty most gladly confided
the whole story to her woman-friend, adding, "II
shall never mention it 'to her again ; I wouldn't take
any money of hers, not if she was to go down on, her
kneefMd beg me ! "
"Well, .child, I won't gainsay you; I see it would
be torture to you if I should interfere, so let her
keep her ill-gotten gains, and Heaven grant we may -
be soon rid of her ! I feel like praying the prayer the
old deacon offered for his scolding wife, 'Oh, Lord,
let her be speedily and geritly removed.' She is .
angling for a queer. fish--such as it is, I think she
will get it. One thing. is certain sure, if she does,
she receives full reward for all her evil deeds. That

"Z SHALL BE A LADY FORE VER."'

15'g

Nickson is a wretch, if thereis one unhung ; I don't
pity her or envy her. You have been a foolisli child,,
but it is a sort of folly born in you, and it will
beautify your life. I couldn't love you so much if
you were less innocent, and more selfish  and if that
cow-bird can afford to flaunt her borrowed feathers,
we can afford to let her. You are not going to be
cheated out of this party; I really believe that is just,
what the pestilent Fringilla would like, and that is
precisely what she can't have; I shall give her to
understand "-shaking her hand threateningly-" that
other people can manouvre as well as she. Now
mind you.say no word pro. nor con about it, and she
won't ask, you may be certain. She'll watch , let,
her ! all she finds out, I'll present to her with my
compliments. I'm going to get up this robe myself.
I'm a famous dressmaker. I've often thought of
going into that line. I will not permit you to carry it
out of the house, and we will have all the fun to our-
selves."
Kitty, who had been much. moved, by Carlotta's,,
home-thrusts (she did not spare her pet, but lectured
roundlyand bade her take care in future, notwith-
standing her characteristic wind-up.), now threw her
arms around her' neck, relieved of her heavy load;
and though she shed some tears, her spirits rose in"
proportion to her late depression.
"I've been. so. unhapp'y.-you. can't think," said
she. "I felt as if people were so wicked."
" I'eople have been behaving like a ragingewolf to

i     4


158 *II SHALL BE A LADY FOREVER"-
my precious lamb; there is not the shadow of a ques-
tion about that ; but the sheep-d6g has waked up
now, andwe'll see-who comes out best ; shine up your
eyes, darling ; if you had persisted in sobbing and cry-
iig so, I should have gone distraught. We must con-
sult about the crape. Let me see:- what do you think
of baby waist and duchess sleeve ? I wonder how
many gores we had better put in the skirt ! hum---
hum-4f an ox gore a man or woman, he shall be-put
to death; but there is no law against goring skirts.
There is a creature-the first letters of her name are
cow-bird,'--' who has gored the gentle bosom of
peace with pillage and robbery.' I've a notion she
is coaxing up a future for herself that with bloodless
stroke, her soul shall gore;- that old Nickson is a
dreadful goer, yea, one of the go-ats of the party who
go the pritprose way to the everlasting bonfire ; but
never mind that pair now. We'll forget and forgive.
Good, ny mouse of virtue, answer me : how shall
ve fashion the frills ? beauty's a flower ; therefore
smile again, my bonny lassie."
Kitty followed the talk of her woman-friend with
amused attention, thinking "how smart she is," and
she soon forgot her vexations in the momentous dis-
cussion, and before she knew it she had laughed
heartily at Carlotta's .drollery, her grimaces and
hum-hums;" and they got as merry as grigs
long ere replacing the pretties in their hiding for the
night.
It was after the candles were lighted that 'Belle

I SHALL BE A LADY FOREVER."     159
Brandon returned ; she threw herself. wearily dkwn
upon the sofa, and tossing off her hat, she said:
"I wonder i( Winnie will give me some supper ; I
haven't eaten anything since morning, and I am as
faint as death."
Pray) where have you been all day ?  asked
Carlotta, rising to give the order. .I began to think
we should have a - dreadful occasion,' or a clandes-
tine marriage in the Merry Bank Scalpel, to-rnor-
row morning, as a relish for our breakfast.'"
"Nothing clandestine for me, thank you, Miss Gor-
ton. When I take the vow, it will be with a flour-
ish of trumpets ; I think the eclat and the trousseau,
the presents and the grand tour, are the cream of the
performance ; and after that, Newport, Saratoga, and
the Metropolis; no love in'a cottage for me"; thank
Heaven ! I am not romantic."
"Very pleasant, all that, and not to be despised ;
but don't you think a little love for your husband:
would be advisable to fall back upon, in case of sick-
ness, poverty, or old age? There rnghit come a time
when you would need sympathy and tenderness,-
said Carlotta, with an unwonted softness in her tone,
and an involuntary yearning toward this self-willed'
manager, so resolutely marching on her chosen path.
Kitty looked up in surprise, and. I must say I was
astonished, although ]I knew all about Carlie, her pe-
culhar views as to the sacredness of the marriage-vow,
and the needs and must-haves for .its assumption.
She was generally so curt to Belle, and declined so

-k

i


": I B BE 4 LADY FOREVER}

A

utterly to manifest any interest in her feelings. or her
proceedings. Iut I had forgotten that the anniver-
sary of PitkiA Sterling's departure was close at hand
a-- daywhich she always observed in, a way charac-
teristically her own.
"Don't preach! pray don't! you make me sick,"
said Belle, playing restlessly with her hat-strings.,
When I do take a husband, I shall provide against
any possible poverty.; and for the-rest, I must accept
my chance as other people do."'
Something was stirring within her, for a blank
weariness came ,over her handsome face, a dreary
look of trouble and dread., But she' pushed off her
curls presently, and with them. pushed away also. her?
thoughts, whatever they were, and poured for herself
a cup of the fragrant tea Winnie set before her on a.
little round table, and began to eat her buns and
raspberries; in a quick, determined manner, as if she
disclaimedthe idea of softness or wavering.
But you haven't told us where you have spent
the day," said I. "Bianca Ashcroft was here asking
for you.
Belle glanced swiftly at Iitty, who was bending
over her saucer of berries and mosses. " I wonder -
if the chit has prattled," was her thought; but as the
child's curls shaded her face, and she did not look up,
she replied aa,. venture,
"Only at the troublesome dress-maker's, getting.
my bodice. fixed."
Kitty raised bethead in quick astonishment, but.

"I SHALL BE A LADY FORE VER."      16
Belle met her gaze with collected quiet, and her color
never changed; a bitter thought burned in her heart,
though.
"Here sits this innocent thing, adored, petted,
sheltered, like a bird in a nest, and I am alone, out-
side ; she will get a loving young husband. I must
take that hideous wretch, or fight poverty, and be an
old maid, ugly, wrinkled."  " By faint degrees voice,
lute, and pleasure ceased ;.no azure vein wandered on
her clear-hued temples, no soft bloom misted the
cheek, no passion to illume the deep-recessed vision;
all was blight." Belle smiled grimly as Mrs. Ramble
opened the door. "It was this horrid old witch
which inspired my musing," thought she, "not my
speeding future.
Time past and time to come are not ;
The time present is my only lot.'"
The truckman's wife announced that she couldn't
"stay a second hardly," and began to talk about the
party, forewarning, us in what holiday apparel we
should meet our acquaintances.
I 'spose you know where. Nickson come from,
don't you ?"
As Carlotta snapped her eyes, and nobody replied,,
I made haste to cover the gap by a negative.
"'Why, Roaring. River! leastways he lived there
before he went to Californy; he married for his
second woman Mary Ann Williams, my sister's
darter ; I never found it oat til a little while ago,

A

.,       _                   }      _ t
,      _ _              "
t                   ,
. , ! W C


162   '"Z SHALL BE A LADY FOREVER."S

that he was the same one; me and sister Williams
hain't been on-the best of terms for quite a spell, .and
I didn't go to the weddin' and I didn't go to the
funeral; but when Alumzy Jane, was to Toptown,
she met her Cousin Payson to Brother Baalam's, and
somehow or another she .got hold of the whole story.
His first wife was a Wapping from Winchester, and
she tried to kill herself three times before they finally
found her in the barn hanging to a log chain, her
long hair streamin' down behind her, and her eyes
sot-and theygot her down just in time to save her
from being tried for suicide, and she didn't. live but a
couple of days afterwards-and you might know he
and poor Mary Ann didn't live a mite happy: they say
he beat her ; and anyhow she took her new-born baby
and went off one dark night, and she wasn't found
till she was as black as your hat, and a'most all to
pieces ; and he took leg-bail between two days, or
the folks would have mobbed him. I knew all about
the poor thing's death before, though they hushed it
up ; and now I'm putty ,sure this Nickson is the
identical fellar-in fact, I know he is-I meafl to put
it to him the very first'chance I get ; they do say he
goes by another name. That Knox has been heard
to call him Jack Frippon. I can't say nothing about
that;, but I do know if he was made of gold and
dimuns he ain't no kind of a man to be tied up to.,
It's just as true as you live, Belle Brandon.; you'd
better let him alone if you know when you're well
off. Ramble says I'd better hold my tongue or I'll

get took up for slander, but I ain't a mite afraid.
He dassent do a thing."
Belle was as pale as ashes. Mary Ann Williams
had been a schoolmate 'of hers, and there was a,
good deal mixed up with her and those' times which
was exceedingly disagreeable, and she wondered
what portion of her previous history was includedin
Payson's gossip ; reflecting that the. fellow was a
mere child at the time, she hoped she had escaped
mention.  How much of the banker's" story she
knew before, or whether this was her first information
of ' his connection with her former friends, I never
ascertained. I think it quite likely, from her penetra-
tion' and -sharpness, that a part of it at least was no
news to her. At any rate she haughtily resented
Mrs. gamble's interference, and took care to let her
know it.
"Oh, well: I've done my duty," said the old "lady.
" If you want to have a black-leg, pu-gel-ist, hypo-,
crite, and what-all, go ahead ; there ain't nobody
got no objections; but I tell you if you do, the
time'll come when you'll cry right out : 'Oh, that
mine head was waters, and mine eyes a fountain of,
tears, that I might weep day and night.' You'll rue
the day ; mark my words. . As for me, I'd just as
soon see you in the Folly as anybody. I was kinder
afraid one time that this pretty'-Kitty 'd get took ir,
but thank the Lord, He meant her for, better things;
what you goin' to wear, little rose-bud, hey? is it
the white or the blue?"

"r -1 SHALL. BE A LADY FOREVER*"  163

I


64    "i SHALL BE A LADY FOREVER."
It was really remarkable how the old lady's eyes
twinkled whenever they rested on our precious
blossom, and what a kindly grin stretched her mouth,
displaying: her toothless gums ;. she never had any
unpleasant "tells " for her, fruitful js she was in such
productions for other people.
I think of putting Kitty into Japanese mourning
for a want she knows of,'' said Carlotta.
"The land sake ! what's that, pray-.--pepper and
salt?"
"Black and yellow, Mrs. Ramble'; the color of
the crow-foot in the meadow or on the banker's face;
the hue of the pirate's flag,. 'never say die.' "
"How you -do talk, Carlotty; the dog can't make
nothing on't out. Oh, good-evening, Mrs. Squirm-
well; gain' to prayer-meetin'?"
While the others were busy, I had admitted the
singing woman, who speedily bore down upon her
errand.
" I've come in on. purpose to see you, Carlotta.
Preparatory lecture is Friday night, and I want to
ask your forgiveness,
"Indeed, what for--been skipping into my place.
somewhere ? "
"No, not at all. I know I haven't noticed you as
much as I ought to lately, and I want to speak about
it before communion, and beg your pardon."
"Oh, is that the occasion of your contrite spirit!
Well, you may take away my blessing; I assure you
I had felt no want of politeness.'

*I SIALL BE A -LADY FORE .EP."
Whatever reply she might have made was hindered
by Winnie, who bounced into the room, forgetting all
proprieties, with her cheeks and nose extremely in
flamed and the tale of her gown belligerently tucked
through her pocket-hole.
' Your nasty boy, he's most killed my pig, and you
let him, just because he got his poor head catched in
your fence," said she, shaking her fist at Mrs. Squirm-
well. " Do you expect ever to go to heaven ? if
yoi do, I hope the leetle hog '11 go on your back and
say ' que, que, que !' all the way."
"Why, Winnie, Winnie ! you forget yourself; go
out of the room immediately," said I, rising to enforce
my command.
"I can't help it, Miss Serena. I don't abide that
Woman. If she be not the devil, she's the devil's sis-
ter. She's always droppin' and floppin' down on her
knees in the kitchen and everywheres, prayin' :up to
everybody."
"Wouldn't you like to be forgiven before you go,
good woman? "- spoke up Mrs. 'Squirmwell in an ex-
alted frame of mid ; " stop a minute, till I offer -a
short petition for you."
" No, no ! petish yourself, if you feel like it! petish
for my leetle pig. I don't want any-of your long
graces; " and Winnie bounced out as she wildly had
bouncedin.
We sing a hymn at our led Cottage before we
exchange good-night kisses, and read a little in the
Holy Bible = We are not wont to speak much to-

V

,


i166

9 I SHALL BE A LADY FOREVER."

gether afterwards; we. like to -take to our pillows
whatever of sweetness or pith we have found, each
for herself, in the sacred utterance. The blind mother
loved this gathering time, and I notice that the songs
we sing oftenest are those she hallowed by her tune-
ful voice. Her spirit is among us, I am fond of think-
ing; and her heavenly orisons blend with our earthly
ones-
I happened to be looking at Belle Brandon that
evening, while Henry was reading the Scripture les-
son. " And thou saidst, I shall be a lady forever, and
thou didst not lay these things to heart; neither didst
thou consider the latter end of it ; these two things
shall come to thee in a moment, in one day, the loss
of children and widowhood. . They shall come upon
thee in their perfection for the multitude of thy sor-
ceries and for sthe great abundance of thy enchant-
ments."
Belle was not over given to deep listening to the
Bible-readings, nor self-applications of their promises
or threatening ; but this evening her mind was turbid.
It sent up the mire and dirt of past follies, sins, trials,
mortifications, disappointments--the fruit* of un-
worthy actions. When she was sixteen she had a curi-
ous experience. Sitting opposite a girl named Chris-
tabel Goldsmith, whom she had much tormented, and
as deeply wronged as she could, with her opportu-
nities, now as then a shudder ran through her veins ;
for one instant the present vanished, and she saw her-
self in those clear, brown eyes, as in a, mirror; an old,

-"I SHALL BE A .,LADY FOREVER."

i67

ugly, guilt-stained hag;, a polluted creature. Per-
haps her guardian angel showed her once more the
vision, to save her from the ruin her trickery and false-
hood must bring; perhaps it foreshadowed the dreary
end: who can say? Now as then she shook herself
restlessly, and sent a searching glance into the sur-
rounding faces ; she felt as if we 'must have also seen
Belle Brandon "no more called tender and delicate,
but sitting among the mill-stones grinding the meal,"
neglected, ashamed, dragged through dirty ways. If
Belle Brandon had a guardian angel he had certainly
a most unsatisfactory charge on his hands ; for there
never lived a woman who turned more persistently
away from all good impulses and holy aspirations,
using with obstinate diligence the muck-rake amongst
trifles and tricks and sordidness ; she couldn't have
seen a crown if.he had held one above her head; and
the heavenly glory of a celestial circlet would have
attracted none of her regards.

b  ,,t;&amp;

r'
{..
,
.,,
°


KITT Y TSITS TIlE QUINCE BUS?.

169

4,

CHAPTER XII.

KITTY VISITS THE QUINCE BUSH.

HAT night, after Kitty had gon, to sleep in
her white bed, with her pretty curls all tossed
on her pillow, Carlotta went softly upstairs,
fetched away the crape, and after shutting herself in-
to her room, she measured the breadths, and com-
menced operations. All the time she could make.
from her household duties she .put upon it, and the
morning of the party it was ready to try on. Kitty,
who enjoyed the secrecy and mystery of the affair
hugely, gayly obeyed a signal from her woman-friend
to come up from bftakfast andiinally pronounce upon
the fit. So, having carefulylocked the door, she was
speedily inducted theieir;i aid Went into raptures, and
hugged and kissed the maker some scores of times.
",Do you know, Carlie," said she, looking thought-
fully down at the half-finished, sleeveless garment, with'
its basting-threads and ravelled-edges ; " I had such a

funny dream last night: I thought I went with you to
the party ; I wore a new .dress, but it was the blue
satin, and I had curious flowers and ornaments, and I
went through long rooms, more beautiful than any-
thing I ever beheld; and there, in a great ball-room
filled with people, I found a lover, such a pretty fel-
low, with curly hair ; and I was so full of joy, and I
looked around for you that I might show him to you,
and you were gone ; and he also had disappeared,-and
there came a man, and said, Why do you weep ? I
do not like children who have red eyes. Carlotta is
mine ; I have brought her up to my standard, and
now I shall take her ; and I was afraid,-and then my
papa came, and looked so cross, and scolded me, and
Belle Brandon stood close by him, and I tried to tell
him something which she hindered me from speaking ;
she would not let me look at him, and I awoke, trem-
bling; and I could not get rid of it, it seemed so' real
and true. -I like nice dreams, but those pokey ones
are awful, aren't they?"
"You need not trouble yourself to fix up any such
destiny for me in the watches of the night. That
comes of the stuff I was so silly as to tell you .one
day : there won't anybody. bring ine up to any
standard ; you see, you had a nightmare, and of
course, that cow-bird had to 'thrust herself into it.
Heaven forbid such a juxtaposition! What on earth
put that into your .head ? has she been. asking you
questions about your father?" inquired Carlotta sus-
-piciously.
8

V

j .r
.t
t
j

ji
_                  /, t
,
-., -,
,
i     _ ,  ',
;
'

a'
i
-         ?A
i


17Q    KITTY VISITS THE QUINCE BUSH.
"Oh yes; we have talked a good deal, and I sent
him her picture when she first came."
"Her picture! what for, pray ?"
" Oh nothing : she told me to, and I asked him to
come on this summer ; I knew he wouldn't, for all she
thought I could coax him; and he won't," said Kitty
sorrowfully.
" Good Lord, deliver. us from all these---cow-
birds.! " ejaculated Carlotta not very reverently. Her
utterance was something difficult, too, for she had-her
mouth full of 'pins. "I only hope I can get this
skirt to hang," she added, frowningly twitching it.
"He had better stay where he is, if he knows when
he's well off."
" What do you mean, Carlie ? why do you say hem
of my crape."
"A confusion of genders consequent upon my
French studies," answered Carlotta.
It is such fun getting ready on the sly, isn't it?'
And Belle thinks I will stay, at home ; won't she look
astonished when I come_ in leaning on my woman-
friend's arm ? Oh' Carlie, I wish we could find -our
lovers up there ; I want a lover ; don't you ? "
"No ! child, no ! of course not; what should I do
with a dangling fool?"
"Why, marry him, pet him, kiss him, like this and
thlis."
Well, child, that may suit your salad days. I'm
no longer green in judgment. I forswear all such
Pinipery; doii't hinder now ; take your pretty arm off'

KITTY VISITS TIE QUINCE BUSM.      171
my neck. I shall have to work like steam to get fin-
ished in season, and I want to make time to wash my
best collar, which Henry brought me from Brussels,
and to clean my gloves."
" Let mne wash your collar, Carlotta."
" Nonsense! pet ! as if I would trust you. I don't
believe laundry-work was taught at your school ; go
and find Jim, and have a little romp, and keep your
bright looks, or you may miss the pretty fellow,
which would be a pity."
" You shall wear- a. pair of my gloves, any way ;
promise that, or I won't stir. See, your hand fits mine,
finger to finger; only your first and middle ones are
just the same length, and that is a sign you will
rule your husband. Laura Gwin told me so, oh
Carlie!"
" Well, I have as full a right to rule as be ruled,
if it comes to that," answered Carlotta; "you must
go now, pet," she added quickly.
" Not till you promise," persisted Kitty; "no
gloves, no g
" As you please, precious," said Carlotta, kissing
the sweet face raised to her. Putting her favorite
,from the room she locked the door. I' believe she
sewed many thoughts into the dress that morning-.
thoughts kindled by Kitty's artless prattle. I feel
sure of it, because when I visited her room seeking a
brooch of mine, I found her busy with a box of let-
,ters-so busy that I had to knock thrice- before she
admitted me-; and there was a certain exaltation

v


172     KJkTY VISITS TIE QUINCE BUSH.

KITTY VISITS TIlE QUINCE BUSH.

about her face, a lithe grace to her motions, which I
remembered well in the old days of her friendship
with. Pitkin Sterling: and moreover, she had turned
her raven tresses back in deep braids, and pierced
them with the golden arrow. Once a year she did this.
I cannot tell how I knew, but I did know, she had
worn it thus the evening when he had asked her to
marry him. I loved her too well to intrude any com-
ments upon actions on which she desired to keep
silence; but she is one~-of those rare creatures one
cannot help studying, all whose phases are full of
interest.
Our lawyer was at court. I was presiding over
Winnie's currant jelly, and-too busy to dine, and
Carlotta took her green tea, salad, and rolls in her
apartment, being pressed for time, and also perhaps
choosing her own thoughts to any society. So the
two girls sat down to the table by themselves. They
had hardly spoken together since the talk at the gate.
In fact, Miss; Brandon had passed most of her time
in Miss Snuffandbark's workroom, going out each
morning with a little basket on her arm directly after
breakfast, and returning late: She did not dare in-
trust her costume to the tender mercies of the country
artist, but directed and planned Ahe whole toutedn
scramble" (to use a favorite phrase of the dress--
maker), and assisted with her own fingers, made
skilful b'y adroit practice. So we had our Red Cot-
tage very much to ourselves.
Little Kitty had done her best to forget and for-

give, but, she did not feel like being especially so-
ciable, and as for the blonde, she looked down
on "the chit," as a means, an instrument, wholly
devoid of interest, except so far as she could be made
available, "a poor, spiritless little tool "-and as she
had not yet gotten all she needed out of the "tool,"
she was glad of the opportunity the solitary dining
gave her to achieveher design.
"I declare, Mignonne," .she broke out, "I do feel
so annoyed ! I have the greatest mind not to go to
the party, after.all.
"Why not? " replied Kitty, pleasantly, in whom
the familiar tones and epithets awakened the old train
of feeling.
"Because I cannot find a decent thing to put on
my head in this dull town, Robin Gray. I wanted
marabouts, and there isn't one to be had for love nor
money. I do think after all the unpleasant feelings
I have been through, and the trouble and worry,
and the misunderstandings with my dear friend--''
"Why not wear flowers ? Carlotta will give you
plenty ; make a wreath."
" You 'dear,. unsophisticated innocent! do you
suppose .I would appear in  garden flowers at a full-
dress party? Certainly not !
Kitty looked amazed, remembering Belle's offer
to construct a garland for her use from the despised
blossoms, but did not say anything.
"I suppose you wouldn't like to do me a favor,
Kitty, if I should ask it ? You have hardly spoken

i73

} ,
e'


174    KITTY VISITS THE QUZNCE BUSI.
or looked at me this whole week" (this in a gushing,
tender tone). "You can't know how unhappy you
have made me ! If I had for a moment supposed
such a trifle could have broken our friendship, I
would have jumped into the Dead Sea before I would
have touched that dress ; and I was so fond of you: I
never met a girl in whom I took so warm an interest.
The ants don't prize their aphides more than I prize
you." (Belle laughed inside ; she knew she was safe
in simple Kitty's "Natural History.") "I hoped we.
should be life-friends. I am the most unlucky-creat-
ure ! always saying and doing outri things. I do
think it is too hard. I don't see what I was born
for!"

If Belle had put her exclamation into the form of
a riddle, Kitty might have replied as. did the boy to
a certain lady-lecturer: "Gives that up ; ask some
more hard questions ; " .but seeing that the blonde's
handkerchief was at her eyes, and she was getting up
quite a rush of sobs, the poor child felt as if she
must be personally accountable, and wickedly to
blame somehow for' the torrent of grief, and made
haste to speak such words of comfort as she could sum-
mon in her.embarrassment ; and was finally induced,
by half ejaculations, and incomplete confessions, to
inquire what was the favor she desired, but feared to
name ; going mentally, at the same time, over such
possessions of hers as she thought it probable Belle
might be-most likely to beg or borrow.
 Oh, nothing now t' replied that person, in a

KITTY VISITS THE QUINCE BUSH.        1750
spirit and expression of martyr-meekness, wiping her
eyes and sweetly smiling. "I did wish very much to
have some cape jessamines for my hair.; but it is of no
consequence. I did think, as you were not going to
this stupid Foll.--though I must say I consider you
too hasty in t at decision" (she speeded on as she
noticed an an ry flush mounting in Kitty's cheek ;
and it was no part of her plan to provoke her now),
"and you are ;so fond of country rambles-quite a
walkist, in fact, you might enjoy a stroll up to Miss
Walsingham's to bring me some. Her place is look-
ing beautifully now ; and I know she has plenty, be-
cause Bianca Ashcroft told me so this morning. If
you were .going, I could make a lovely breast-knot
for you."
. Kitty, in her astonishment, cane near.-letting out
Carlotta's grand secret, and declaring that she was
going ; but she checked herself in time,
"Miss Walsingham's ! " she exclaimed. "Why,
Belle,,you are surely wild. It is one o'clock now ; I
don't believe I could go and get back in time ; it must
be a good two miles. Besides, her nephew is ex-
pected. I shouldn't like to meet him, all dusty and
red ; the sun is melting : and as- for asking for hot-
house flowers, I am sure I never could get up cour-
age. I don't know Miss Walsingham. I am afraid
of strangers.  They say she is very outspoken.
Anything else I can do for you, Belle?"
She finished falteringly, because the blonde's blue
eyes were getting deeper and more glittering with

I

,I


176    KITTY ' VISITS THE QUINCE BUST.

each word, and the child felt that she was behaving
in a perfectly selfish, unprincipled manner under their
Geraldine influence.
Oh, do pray stop there ; don't prolong the agony
needlessly. You are determined to be disobliging,
and that is the upshot of it. 'Anything else !'-but
there isn't anything else. I am resolved not to stir
one-step to that party unless I have some cape jessa-
mines. I should hate to feel that I had spoiled a
friend's pleasure just for.paltry laziness ! "
( Pushing -away her chair, she fell on to the sofa, in
a state of mind, and buried her head in its cushions,
and moaned andsobbed.
" Oh dear me !- I'm perfectly miserable ! all alone
in this unfeeling world. I wish - I was dead and
buried out of everybody's way ! "
Crushed as she was, with grief, Lord Feigning's
daughter managed to lift her face enough 'to get a
peep at Kitty's countenance. The sorrowful conster-
nation painted there looked encouraging, and she
continued:
Oh, Kitty, Cherie! I don't feel as if I was long
for this world" (" only five feet sixinches," she inly
interpolated); "and I have had a hard time ; I have
a presentiment that I shall die young. I am not strong,
but.I should like to know that somebody would think
about yme after I am gone. Will you drop a tear to
poor 'Belle's memory ? One tear is all I ask (I am
sure that is modest of me). Think of her who loved
you, Mignonne, when you are happy."

" Pray don't, Belle ! " said Kitty, starting up ner-
vously. "I'll go ; if cape jessamines will keep you
alive, you shall have some."  Kitty could not- help
laughing in spite of her.distress ; but the merriment
was so hysterical, that tears would have come just as
easily. She tied on her sun-bonnet and looked at the
clock. She was a'good walker;- but she dreaded the
burning sun, which was pouring down its hottest on
the dustyjroad. " I'll just run up and tell Carlotta-
where I am going ; she might want me."
Belle. raised her head and said quite sharply, for
one so crushed by grief, "Ifyou mean to proclaim it
on the house-top, I had rather you didn't go at ill.
I do despise such a fuss about every trifle ! "
Kitty, who had her hand on the knob, feeling her-
self thus hemmed' in, turned back without another
word. When Belle saw her safely through the gate,
the pink sun-bonnet which Carlotta had manufac-
tured amidst much mirth, to accompany the Peck-
sniffian costurne, drawn over her face, she laughed a
laugh of mean, selfish triumph.
"There goes the most miserable fool ! I wonder
if there could be an inducement offered to me, which
would take me out two miles under this broiling sun,
to oblige my best-that is, my most useful friend.
There is a species. of humanity created on- purpose
for the use of the clever ones. The fates be praised
.for them ! That chit Will be sure to get the flowers,
though, with her sweet, soft ways. That old frump
of a Walsingham wouldn't give me a blossom to save

DITTY VISITS THE QUINCE BUSH:    V7


178    KITTY VISITS TIE QUINCE BUSH.

my soul. I came exceeding near being a relation of
hers once ; heigho ! I am really getting old ! "
Suddenly starting up, she ran nimbly after her
messenger, who was speeding on her way,
"Stop one instant, Mignonne; let me speak one
word."
Kitty turned about without looking up, and waited
for her.
"As. you are not going this evening, I may as
well borrow your fan and other things. God bless
you, Cherie ! I shall never forget how kind you are
to me. My head feels better already. Maybe it
will be my turn one of these fine days. I'll have you
up to the Folly to spend the summer, when I marry
the banker. There ! hurry on for your own Belle!"
Giving "the chit " a little push and a kiss, she
ran back to the house with her handkerchief over her
face. Though -the heat was so oppressive, and the
scorched roadway deep in hot, red dust, she felt no
pity, but floated up to the Blue Corner, humming
"Angels ever bright and fair," which she did so
exquisitely-in such delicate, thrilling voice, rich in
pathos, tender in purity, that Carlotta opened her
door to listen, and Winnie crossed herself in the
kitchen, and muttered an "Ave," feeling that there
must be a need for a little extra praying; and was
not quite at ease-till the fair warbler had hushed her
notes, having concentrated her attention upon putting.
her complexion into almond paste, to enhance its
brilliance for t1e evening.

CHAPTER XIII.
THE OGRESS' CASTLE.
ITTY plodded along with tearful eyes. Her
cheerful, forgiving nature rose up afresh
against Belle ; she felt, though she could not
resist, all her exactions and extortions. As for the_
party, she would have given it up altogether, if Car-
lotta had not taken so much trouble about it. Then
remembering her dress, and the good times they had
enjoyed during its fabrication, and her odd dream,
she fell to speculating about the dancing, and won-
dered whom she would have for partners; what she
would wear in her bosom, and how she should look ;
what Henry- would think ; what the wonderful
Archie would say to her, and if his hair curled ; if
he really would be there ; and by the time' she
reached the Quince Bush, her elastic spirit was
bright again, and her pretty face was serenely cleared
of all shadow.


180        THE OGRESS' CASTLE.

THE OGRESS' CASTLE.

It was a lovely spot. Though dead level, like all
the surrounding country, it had been brought into
such a state of perfect cultivation, and so tastefully
laid out, that. the eye felt no want in looking over it;
and Kitty took off her bonnet and sacque, and sat
down upon the broad door-stone to admire and get
cool, before she -asked admittance. Her hair fell in
damp curls all over her plump neck, so fair and full ;
and her flushed cheeks, and dimpled, round arms
crossed over her lap in a pretty, old-fashioned, child-
ish way, made her as bonnie a picture as you might
see on a summer's day. A couple of very youthful
puppies of the Retriever family, who in their baby-
hood showed the marks of their parentage, having
the wide Newfoundland muzzle, and long, silky ears,
and well-lined face of the Irish setter mother ; and
the thick, glossy, black fur, long and curly, so neces-
sary to a perfect Retriever, were rolling over each
other on the lawn, and Kitty laughed heartily at their
clumsy gambols ; which laugh suddenly subsided
as the hall-door opened, and a stout woman in
rustling silk, who had been attentively watching. her
from the, window, accosted her in a full voice, as if
she had always lived in the open air, and taken in no
end' of oxygen or ozone, or some other vitalizer,
which made Kitty start quickly to her feet. She
just glanced upward, meeting bright, black, penetra-.
tive, eyes, which seemed to search her inmost soul,
and made her drop her own, culprit-fashion, upon
the ground.

" Are you trying to catch a cold and a fever, child,
that you sit there unsacqued, with the wind blowing
on your bare arms ?"
" Oh no,. indeed, ma'am ; I was watching the
dogs," replied Kitty, hurriedly.
"And have you come. to Quince Bush to admire
my dogs ? they ought to feel flattered by the atten-
tion. You see their mother is doing her best to show
her gratitude. If her chain were not a strong one,
she would be thrusting her cold nose against that
hot-cheek of yours, and that would frighten you."
" I am not afraid of dogs," replied Kitty with
marked emphasis, still looking down.
"Oh, and you are afraid of me, for instance-and
yet you have invaded my domain."
" Yes, ma'am, I had to-I have come begging-
and. I may as well get it over first as last. I want
some flowers."
She preferred her request in a timid voice, with
bowed head, and her small hands tightly clasped
together: had she been suing for .a brother's life,
another Isabella, she-could not have sembled a more
trembling suppliant. Miss Elinor Walsingham, for it
was our old friend, looked down at the child in a
curious, admiring, amused way ; but when she spoke,
it was in the same full-volumed voice.
- "Do you suppose, little one, that I grow hot-
house flowers to supply all'Christendom, that you
come and batter at my door so boldly, and demand
them?"


182         THE OGRESS' CASTLE.

She smiled to herself at the idea of boldness, in the
modest, shrinking figure before her.
"Indeed, I do not," replied poor Kitty, ready to
drop ; "I could not .bear to ask for your jessamines;
I never ask for anything. I told Belle I should be
horribly afraid of you, but she would make me come ;
she said she should die; she always does make me
do what she wishes, Ican not help it, and I am glad it
is over with, and I'll go right home. I ought not
to have sat down on your door-steps, but I was so hot
and tired, and I just wanted to rest and look at the
puppies."
She hurriedly picked itp her sun-bonnet and
sacque, and turned away. Aunt Elinor burst into a
laugh loud and hearty, and'full of good humor.
" You're a cunning little sprite,"'said she, "and as
pretty a child asI have seen for many a day."
Kitty raised her eyes at the pleasant sound, and
looked in the face of the laugher.
" You are not angry, then, after all; I thought you.
meant to scold meIfor intruding, and send me off.-
and such a walk as I have had!"
"And did you take me for an ogress, who eats
children, that you trembled and blushed at such a
rate? Do I look like one ? Come, that's right, full.
and frank; I like faces that will bear daylight, yours
is as clearas a crystal brook ; so you, told Belle that'
you would be afraid of me ; am I so awesome a
sight ? "
"Now you are laughing at me, Miss Walsingham;

but you spoke so loud ; I always am afraid of people
who talk loud."
":Come, then, I'll whisper mild as a sucking dove ;
I can't have such a tender little chick afraid of me."
She reached down and softly took Kitty's hand,
and drew her inside, and shut the door; "no, not
even, when a close- prisoner in my keep?  You see
an, ogress is good-humored, when she isn't hungry,
and I shall not eat you ; I am not like the con-
verted feejee Islander, who desired, when very ill,
to partake of a bit of baked pickaninny-I prefer
chickens.1"
" How. horrid!" exclaimed Kitty; "I suppose
pickaninny means baby-dreadful old -cannibal ! "
"Yes; the ruling- passion strong in death, you
know-do you tremble severely ? "
"Don't make fun of a poor stranger," said Kitty ;
"I like you very much-you are merry, and I think
you are handsome, and ever so friendly."
"Oh, do you ? very,, well then ; sit here in the
breeze and. get cool, and we will have in some iced
lemonade, and sponge' cakes, while we talk about
this jessamine ,business ; so you hated to come, did
you ? I should think so, through this burning heat ;
it was enough to wilt such a little blushing bud.
How far have you. walked ? from the village, I sup-
pose ; I thought I knew all the lasses about me, but
your fresh, dear, charming face is a new one."
"I do not live at Merry Bank. I am a visitor with
the-Gortons."

I

THE OGRESS' C'14S?'LE        183

5     T


TilE OGRESS', CASTLE.

THE OGRESS' CASTLE.

"The Gortons! ah--indeed ! and what is your
name, my dove?"
Just then a huge cat jumped in at the window ;
and Kitty seized upon her before she answered. "I
am called Kitty Clayton, but I believe my true name
is Katrina Augusta."
A quick change passed over the hostess' face, a
spasm of pain, and she silently observed they little
figure before her. The bent head so childish fair;
the soft, dimpled hands, busy with caressing motions.
When she was young and beautiful, she rejected
lovers for this maid's father, and because she could
never, root out from her breast his image, she had
lived single and alone all these years, and she looked
yearningly at the child ; but soon rising briskly, she
brushed back her - memories as she did her silken
skirts.
"I hate to cut my flowers ; they are only for my
friends, and the friends of my friends' friends-"
I was sure you would," broke in Kitty. "I
would. wear dandelions in my hair before I would ask
such a favor ; but Belle would make me come."
"tAnd you love Belle very much?"
" No, I do not love her; but she knows how to
win her way. She got my Blue Corner ; she gets
all she wants."
"She is not7 your sister, or you would not so
frankly confess to a want of affection-who ,then is
she ? "
"She is Belle Brandon."

" Belle Brandon? I have heard that name before.
I wonder if it is the same ; how does she look ? "
" Oh, beautiful ; long curls and blue eyes."
How old is she ? "                       -
"I don't know-pretty old ; I should think as
much as twenty-two /
Aunt Elinor laughed. "Do you call that old ?
Why I am forty-seven.
"Oh, I mean old for a girl."
"But I am a girl."
" No. .You are a woman."
"But when does a maid cease to be a girl, and
commence her womanhood, according to your
idea ?"
" When she leaves off wishing for lovers, and set-
ties down to her life with something to do, and thinks
no longer- about being married. ^Carlotta says she
isn't a girl any more, and she told me that was the
reason. Has your cat got any name ? He's a hand-
some fellow, like a lion, with his yellow stripes and
pale eyes, golden as the ochre we used to have among
our paints at school."
"He is named Lion-you have hit the nail on ,the
head with your little hammer. He knows who he
likes, and why he likes ; here comes our lemonade.
Now 'drink, pretty creature, drink.' "
"Thank you," said Kitty. " I used to say those
verses at Madame Devereaux's."
"And so you are Paul Clayton's daughter! Do
you know, my pretty one, you might have been my

'1v

184

185

4


6THE OGRESS'- CASTLE.

daughter ?  I knew your papa when I was a wee
lassie ; he carried my dinner-basket when I went to
school. I left off being a girl, according to your reck-
oning, when I was nineteen, and have been an old
dame ever since. You are like your father, too. I
should think I would have known you ; you have his
eyes. Ah ! how well I remember that look."
She rose and walked out' of the room, and when
she came back, her nose was red ; and she held a
great bunch of jessamines carefully tied in wet paper.
" These are all for you ;. mind, they are for Paul
Clayton's daughter. You may give them away, if
you choose ; but I cut them because you asked me."
"Oh, yes ; I must give them to Belle; she sent
me out here, you know ; and besides, I am to wear
some of Carlotta's ivy this evening."
"Very well; just as you like ; but you must stop
awhile and talk to me, to pay me for cutting them."
Kitty, nothing loath, curled comfortably into the
sofa corner, and coaxed Lion to make a ball of him-
self in her lap... She began to prattle in her quaint
fashion, while her hostess sat erect in front of her,
drinking in her looks and words with admiration for
her, and many thoughts of her own lost youth ; see-
ing herself 'in Kitty's bright eyes as in a mirror-at
gay little maid like her, fresh, careless, and loving.
In answer to her hostess' questions, Kitty gave a
simple account of herself; her school life, her visit at
the Red Cottage; and finally branched off on to
the party, and confided to her amused listener that

one great reason she hated coming to the Quince
Bush, was a fear that she might meet Archie Laurie,
of whom she had heard so much.
" Do you know, ma'am ?" said she confidentially,
curling Lion's tail.
"Aunt Elinor, darling; I want you to take me
for your auntie," said Miss Wilsingham leaning for-
ward, and giving to the bright-colored face a little
squeeze.
"How nice to have an auntie ! I shall like that.
There wasa girl at our school who was so queer ; one
day she came along with an open letter in her hand,
and smiled, and said, 'My aunt is dead ;' and wecould
not help laughing, because she announced the news as
if she were speaking of a fete, and then a little while
after we found her crying bitterly in a corner, and
when we asked her 'why ?' she said, 'Oh dear, my
poor aunt was only ninety-five ;- I don't see why she
couldn't have -lived to be a hundred. I did so want
an aunt that was a hundred ; and now I haven't -a
single one left, except six of papa's sisters.'"
" Kitty, Kitty, you are a bit of a rogue, I see ; you
mustn't make fun of people's foibles ; it is a bad
habit."
"I don't, auntie, never. I don't like it myself-I
think it hurts."
"Yes, and it hurts the fun-maker more than the
subject of the ridicule. What was it you were-about
to ask me if I knew?"
S"Oh,   was going to ;say -I had an idea Archie

i86

TIC'S OGRESS' CASTLE.

187

.


711E OGRESS' CASTLE.        189

188         THE OGRESS' CASTLE.

Laurie must be something like Prince Almanazar in
'Brazen-Gates."'
Is that so, my dear," asked Miss Walsingham, with
a little laugh, and a side glance at the open window';
" and why, pray? "
"Because I think about him as .Cousin H4enry
speaks of him ; his good heart, his bravery and s'wveet-
ness. The Prince was that way, you know ; but per-
haps you don't read fairy stories."
" Not often in these old dame days; but there are
a few that-are worth the trouble ; nd this little tale
happens to be by a dear friend, so of course I have.
read it from cover to cover."
" Don't you think he was a nice lover? I want a
lover; Belle has had ever so many, and I haven't
had a single one yet."
Miss Walsingham cast a sharp glance at the child
after this speech, wondering how much there might
be under this simple surface. Kitty was looking in
her eyes, and; her sweet, clear-cut face was so child--
ishly frank and pleasant, that she cast away what-
ever thought of guile or boldness had been obtruding
itself, and answered her in almost the same words
Carlotta had used :'
"Oh, wait a bit, darling; you'll get plenty."
"Yes, perhaps so. That's what they all say ; but
I don't see any coming about."
'll give you leave to take Archie, if he develops
as well as you anticipate."
" Has he come? Is he here? Will he be there ?"

"He is not visible to the naked eye, you see ; he.
arrived in town this morning. You need not flutter
like a little dove-you are safe from him at present.
I think he will be at the party, though. I shall cer-
tainly give him his invitation, and instructions.".
"That will be nice. I am ever so glad I came. I'm
cool now. I'll come up and spend the -day ; can't I ?
It was lucky I did not meet Archie; which road will
he take ? I should hate to be seen in this crumpled
muslin, and my curls all frizzed up. I hope he will
ask me for the first dance. Does he know all the
girls ? I hope I shall see him ,before Belle.does.
Don't you tell, will you? I should like to show you
my dress. It is lovely."  Here followed a full and
particular description of the crape, its style and fit;
to all of which her hostess lent pleased ears, bending
toward her from time to time for a little pat of the
round cheek, or a caress of the abundant hair, her
manner full of lovingness.
"But how does it happen, dear auntie, that I have
not seen you at the Red Cottage, since you are such
a friend of the Gortons ?"
"I have been at Bladen Springs, my dear; I only
returned last Friday. Serena came to see me the
day I left. I remember she spoke of guests; but she
could not' have mentioned your name. I should
surely have noted that.
" I believe I. knew you were gone, too, auntie, but I
didn't think about it, because I had not adopted you
then. You could not go away now without asking

.
G  ,
4
L
;
y,
1'


THE OGRESS' CASTLE.

It

my consent, like a dutiful relation, could you ? and
you will be at the frolic this evening, and see me fine,
won'tyou ? "
"Me, child'! with my rheumatism ? my dancing
days are over."
"Yes, I suppose so; but mine are not, and I must
have all my people to smile and -look pleasant. I
haven't got any real people, auntie, except papa.
  That's why I am so glad of you. It used to be dreary
at school when all the girls got piles of letters and:I
never had any. Will you *rite to me when I go back ? ".
"What if I were to keep you here always, and -get
a cross governess, and make you study and work and
milk cows and feed pigs ?"
" Here, auntie ! with you ! why, I never heard of
such a thing!"
Miss Walsingham laughed. " We won't go beyond
the party now--sufficient unto the day is the evil
thereof.",
"And willArchie come all alone without you."
"-I believe him equal to such an emergency, though
I am quite fond of mothering him. Cords and bands
could not hold him when -there is a merry-making in
progress; he will be sure to be there." She raised
her voice a trifle and cast a look out of the window.
" I must forewarn yo  Kitty, this Archie is no hero;
he is only a great wi ul boy, who desires his own
way, thinks he knows everything, and sets up to be
mighty independent of his old aunt, who loves him a
great deal better than he deserves."

Aunt Elinor finished her speech with a frown;
she was evidently talking, not to Kitty, but herself,
and possibly to a third person, who did not appear.
On the soft grass beneath the window lay lazily
stretched at full length a well-knit, healthy, hearty fel-
low, who glanced merrily houseward and smiled before
resuming his occupation, viz.: watching the fleecy,
sailing clouds, and puffing a long cigar.
"Why don't you mother your boy harder, auntie,
and make him mind you and behave ?" asked Kitty,
smiling. She felt the abundant sweetness and strength
which enveloped the'lady like an atmosphere, and the
native way in which she showed it mightily pleased
Miss Walsingham.
" An excellent suggestion, dear. I shall certainly
adopt it."
Kitty was just about to put a very important ques-
tion. She was going to ask, "Is Archie handsome?
dpes his hair curl?" but the great hall clock tolled
out five, and in such sonorous, commanding tones as
to compel attention, and.she jumped up in a mighty
hurry, and pushing away Lion, began to tie on her
bonnet.
"Oh dear I! how late it is ! I have stopped too long ;
how I. do wish I could fly, or go home in a fairy
chariot, or a balloon; any way to. get rid of that aw-
ful walk in the hot."
" Perhaps you would like to meet Prince Almana-
zar on'-his winged horse."
"No, I don't know as I should ; he loved Lady

I

I;

I

t
1
i     -      ,
,
/
.
q
,

TIDE. OGRESS' CASTLE.

X90

19'

i


THE OGRESS' CASTLE.

'93

Delight. I am only simple Kitty. I must have a
lover who isn't too wise for me.'!
"One who can batter down the brazen gates, hey ?
I know a young puppy who -is' full of conceit that he*
is able to accomplish anything. Well, let him go
ahead and try ; I've-got through talking."
"Now, auntie, I-know you mean Archie, but don't
old me, please. You know I hate to have my peo-
ple talk loud. When he comes he must do as you
want4Ito have him.  I shall help you keep him in
order."
Miss Walsingham laughed and gave the maid a good
squeeze. '"My pretty dove," said she, ''I am
glad you came; you have done me good. You'shall
have the key of the Ogress' castle ; it isn't every child
I'd have pattering about my place, but I love you. I
gave up general society long ago. I live nowadays
amongst my pigs and poultry. I hadn't the remotest
idea of going to that festin this evening, but now that
you have told me so much about it, I seem to smell
the battle afar off, and I think I will don 'my war
paint and 'feathers,' and appear in the arena. I must
make an effort ; you know Fanny Dombey died for
want of an effort. Look out sharp for the lover,
Prince Almanazar or Archie; and, my darling, I am
going to send you a nice bouquet ; you shall accept it
for the sake of Paul Clayton, who used to carry my-
dinner-basket. Now don't walk too fast, and don't
get run over by any wild lads driving by."

i t

Kitty kissed her hostess in her fond, nestling fash-
ion, and with many thanks for her kindness, she
started on her homeward way, delighted with her new
auntie and her visit.

A

THE O ?ESS' CASTLE.

192

:

'
_
,r
w


CHAPTER XIV.
PRINCE ALMANAZAR AND LADY DELIGHT.
HE burning air seemed to simmer. The
-breeze had died entirely away when Kitty
reached' the brook, about a quarter of a mile
walk ; she felt too tired to go on, and quite overcome
by the heat, seating herself under the spreading
beech-tree, which stretched its long arms half way
across the merry stream, she bathed her hot face and
hands in the cool, rippling water, and then leaning
back against the 'rough tree trunk, she 'began to go
musingly .over the events of her afternoon. She
gazed dreamily out of half-shut eyes at the fiery scar-
let dragon-flies and royal purple demoiselles, flitting
and darting hither and. thither over the stream, and
listened to the locusts singing above her, and the
frogs croaking among the rushes, until somehow the

PRINCE -ALMANAZAR AND LADY DELIGHT 195
bunch of flowers dropped from her limp grasp, her
eyelids fell, and pretty, foolish Kitty Clayton was
fast asleep upon the king's highway.
A sound of wheels crunching the gravel aroused
her; and a young man with clear, ruddy face, which
just now wore a look of amused admiration, seemed
to have been watering his horse in the ford, for he
stood beside the animal adjusting its harness.
I do believe I have been asleep ! " exclaimed
Kitty, starting up, surprised into the exclamation, and
scarcely knowing where she was.
" I am quite sure of it," replied the young gentle-
man, as if the remark was addressed to him, and de-
manded a reply. " When I drove down the road
just now, you were as fast as little Bo-peep when she
lost her sheep, you remember ? "
" Oh yes, I know all about the small shepherdess;
she was an early friend of mine," replied Kitty, laugh-
ing with easy frankness, and picking up the fallen
flowers, while she shaded her eyes with her hands.
" Dear ! how low the sun is! I shall have to hurry
dreadfully ; and how cross Belle will be ! "
"Perhaps you will allow me the distinguished
honor of setting you down at home, as I am going
your way."
" Oh are you, indeed ! pray how do you happen
to know which way I am going? you may take me,
though, if you are passing through Merry Bank.
Your horse heads that way, I see; I am sure I am
tired enough to be carried."


196 PRINCE ALMANAZAR AND LADY DELIGHT.
"That is omniurn in totem; then please. come up
into the chariot, etc."
" Do I want to, be toted? yes ; haven't, I just in-
sinuated as much?"
Both laughed good-humoredly; he assisted' her to
her place in the light carriage, and carefully adjusted
the linen duster over her muslin skirts. She glanced
petulantly at the soiled crumples, and hoped he would
not perceive them; and then listened to his opening
remark, which was admiration of her jessamines.
" I am afraid they will be wilted, though," said she,
holding 'them up ; " and that would be a sad pity,
because I have taken a good deal of trouble to obtain
them ; they are going to the Folly this evening."
"-So I supposed ; the fame of the fete has travelled
far. I heard of it miles away. I take it these sweet
things came from a green-house; you must have a
friend among the flower-growers."
Thus started, communicative little Kitty told him
whence they came, and all about her visit to the
Quince Bush ; mentioned the expected advent of the
coming man, Archie Laurie ; the Red Cottage, and
the interesting chores; and before the first mile was
passed (he said it was too warm to trot his horse very
fast), they were on the chattiest of terms, and the
young man had confided to his companion a good
deal of valuable information -concerning fly fishing ;
and had gone entirely through a moose hunt, from
the first springing of the shy game, to the final shot,
between the two balls of fire, in the black midnight.

PRINCE ALMANAZAR AND. LADY DELIGHT. I
Suddenly Kitty burst into a merry laugh.
"Might 'F venture to inquire what amuses you?"
"Certainly ; I was thinking what Miss Walsingham
said about Prince Almanazar,. and how funny it is
that I have a ride home, after all."
"Very delightful for me, I assure you. I shall
also imform you, that I am wondering if you are not
the Lady Delight. If these were water-lilies in your
hand, I should feel quite sure of it."
Kitty opened round eyes at him. "So you know
the story; I thought boys never read fairy tales."
" I don't know about boys-I read them, from
Arabian Nights down to Alice in Wonderland, and
the Grimm books. Itow would I do for Prince Al-
manazar ? in a tableau, for instance ? "
" Only so-so," replied Kitty candidly. "He was a
tall, yellow-haired youth, with sparkling eyes. your
hair isn't quite yellow, but it might pass, with a lit-
tle gold powder. Where do you live, sir?"
" I am a citoyen du 7nonde."
"Mercy save us ! how learned ! I know some of
that myself; I studied French at school. It's my turn
now. Calypso se pouvait se consoler pour le depart
d' Ulisse. She often walked herself alone,; no, that is
the English of it-elle se promenait seul. Now what is
next ! well, I could say more, but I won't."
He listened attentively, and lhe also wondered if,
under her extremely simple exterior, she were quiz..
zing him; but the doubt melted when she raised her
eyes, brimming with fun, which belied the primly

[I-


198 PRINCE ALMAiNAZAR AND LADY DELIGHT.
tucked corners of her mouth; keeping in the merry
laugh which desired to ripple forth, and when he burst
out she  leefully joined.
" Now if I were only one of these Merry Bank
youngsters, I might be of your party, and dance with
Miss Belle. Would I get a refusal from the Lady
Delight if I should aspire to the honor of a waltz,
think you ? "
" Meaning me?-"   asked Kitty, dropping her
fringed lids with a deep blush, beneath his look of
unqualified admiration, and also beneath a thought
which flitted through her mind : "What nice eyes
he has got for a lover !"
"None other, I assure you."
"I wish you were going to be there," she answered,
frankly, "I should like you for one of my partners
very much ; I don't suppose I'll have very many.
Archie Laurie is going to dance with me if he comes
in time. His aunt said so."
" Lucky fellow ! he should have some nice points
that you single him out for favors ; and you have never
.seen him, you say ?"
" No ; but I know a good deal about him. He's
got friends where I live; lie is witty, and good, and
brave, and handsome."
"Handsome ? what is your idea of a handsome
man. Where would you class me, for instance?"
"Not among the beautiful sheep.  Your hair
doesn't curl."
"So that is the chiefest element in manly beauty, is.

PRINCE ALMANAZAR   ND LADY DELIGHT. 199
it? I'll go home and put my locks in curl papers to-
night,-if that will do the business for me."
"But it won't. I only spoke of that particular be-
cause I happened to think of it."
"A hopeless case, I see, in your eyes. Well, I am.
coming this way to-morrow,'and'I should like to call
upon you, and inquire how you enjoyed the party,
Could I, do you think?"
"As you have been so kind as to fetch me out of
the dust, and have talked so nicely, I think you
might."
", Thank you ; I wish it had been twenty miles, in-
stead of-two."
"Look at your horse'! he is turning right up to
the Red Cottage gate. How did he know where to
stop?"
"A remarkable case of animal instinct. He saw
you looking that way, and discerned immediately his
duty and destination."
Kitty sprang lightly to the ground, and gayly
thanking her escort, she turned away.
" Stop one moment, please ; won't you give me.
one of your jessamines before you leave me ? I should
like a souvenir of this short drive, which I have won-
derfully enjoyed."
Kitty looked full in his face an instant, and then
down at her flowers.
"I am so sorry my hair doesn't curl," said he,
smiling; "don't let that blemish harden your heart
against me."

9


200 PRINCE ALMANAZAR AND LADY DELIGHT
She selected a blossom, and offered it to him with-
out a word. She began to feel as if she had perhaps:
said too much to a.stranger.
"Many thanks, Lady Delight," he answered, tak-
ing it from her hand, and bowing deeply.
"You are quite welcome, Prince Almanazar," said
she quickly, running inside the little gate. As she
shut it, of course she turned her head for a last look.
Curiously enough, he turned at the same moment,
for the same purpose, and the child's cheeks were like
scarlet when he took off his soft hat, and gave her a.
parting salute. She sprang lightly up the stairs with
her flowers, only reserving a single blossom, a mate
to the one she had given away, which she placed
carefully in water, smiling to herself as she did so, and
scarcely owning her motive to her secret thoughts.
Belle's room was locked.  In answer to Kitty's
gay summons she opened it a little and peeped out,
but when she made sure who it was, she closed it
again hastily.
"You cannot come in now, Kitty," she called froii
within. ' I am busy."
-" I don't wish to come in, you may be sure ; here
are ypur jessamines. I really hope you will enjoy
wearing'them."
Surprised at her lively tone, Belle opened the door'
again, and took a look at her. Then she reached out
one anointed, begloved hand and pulled them into
her, as Noah pulled in the ~ dove, saying curtly,
" Thank you."

PRINCE ALMANAZAR AND LADY DELIGHT- 201
"Have you got the bloody ke' in the Blue Corner,
that you are so wonderfully secret?"
Belle muttered something about being in a hurry,
and shut the door again and locked it.
"Coolness is nothing to her," ejaculated Kitty ;
"but fortunately, I don't care," and in the highest
spirits she danced away up to her woman-friend,
where she dashed in like a sportive breeze.
" Oh, Carlottal" she exclaimed, dropping into a
chair.. "I've had the most elegant, time."
"Time, child ! what have you been about ? I
didn't hear you anywhere, and I made up my mind
that you had retired to the square chamber, and on
downy pillows soft reposing were laying an extra stock
of beauty for this evening. Cow-bird has been in her
stolen nest, after the manner of her kind, all the after-
noon. I have heard her chanting triumphant strains
from time to time, so I conclude she is satisfied with
her conduct and her prospects."
"Carlie ! guess what ! I've been up to Miss Wal-
singham's !"
"What ! where ! how ! when ! " exclaimed Car-
lotta, dropping her work and staring.
"Those are all adverbs that you are firing off like
minute guns; they qualify verbs, adjectives, and other
adverbs ; it says so in Green's Grammar."
1' You are getting qualified for a straight jacket, I
believe."
"Not at all; I mean what I say, and I say what I
mean ; I have paid a visit to the Quince Bush, and
9*.


202 PRINCE ALMANAZAR AND LADY DELIGHT,
made acquaintance withits mistress, who is to be my
auntie forever and ever; amen."
" Expound, child," commanded Carlotta shortly.
Kitty gave a spirited account of her accomplished
mission, her falling asleep so 'oddly under the tree,
and wound up with ecstatic praises of her charioteer,
and her delightful drive home-
"How selfish of Belle ! " was Carlotta's first com-
ment, " to poke you offythere in the hot sun just for
a whim ;,how could you let her treat you so ? you
must learn to resist evil better than this. I shall feel
obliged to mention this topic to the cow-bird."
" No, don't ! dear Carlie; I have the best of it as
it is, because I made a new friend, my papa's friend ;
I am to go to her for a visit, I am to have a. choice
bouquet for the, evening ; and besides, that person
who fetched me home was an exceeding nice person."
" Was the fellow handsome, pet ? "
"He wasn't a fellow, Carlie; he was a gentleman.
He was not handsome, I believe."  She smiled as
she added : " His hair did not curl, and he had a long
nose ; but his eyes were nice, and he looked strong
and :friendly, and he was as 'cute as anything. I
laughed ever so at his fun."
"!What did he say?)"
"Oh, I don't know; I can't tell it so as to make it
sound;as he did;. but he looked pleasant and gay,
and we had a real merry time; we talked about Prince
Almanazar and Lady Delight.".
A quick 'blush suffused (Kitty's cheeks. Carlotta

PRINCE ALMANAZAR AND LADY DELIGHT 203
was inly amused, but she thought proper to put in
a slight admonition.
" A trifle imprudent, w sn't it, pet, to, talk and jest
so freely with a perfect stranger?"
"Now, Carlie, don't you say that," answered Kitty,
feeling a little alarm lest it must be so, since her
woman-friend also'saw it in that light. " I didn't mean
to, and I don't believe it was ; I was tired to death
and as hot as fire, and 'he had a carriage and asked
me to ride, which I am sure was very polite of him,
and you wouldn't have me sit mum and glum,
because I didn't happen to know who his grandfather
was. I can't help it, anyhow. I had a real good
time, and I think he enjoyed it too."
"Well, pet, I -didn't go to scold. I know quite
well my dear Kitty would never do anything wrong, so
don't look so troubled ; but come and see tie dress.
Isn't it a beauty? Run now, and bring your bertha;
you made me forget the hour with your prattle.
Come ! fly-before I begin curling your locks," said
Carlotta, laying out the hair-pins and brushes.
Kitty danced off to her room, humming a gay
waltz. She heard the hall door clang together as she
crossed the upper passage, and paused a minute to
listen to a dialogue between Henry and Winnie.
"Look a here, Winnie, what a target-board you've
made of my white vest! By the foot of Plutarch'!
you might fire a pistol right at me five.paces, and the
ball would dodge as if I was an iron-clad."
"Yes, sir ; I seen ye were getting a trifle stoop-


204 PRINCE' ALMANAZAR AND 'LADY DELIGHT.
shouldered, and I thought you might like bracing up
a bit; all for your good, sir."
"Tremendously kind ! I've wriggled myunder jaw
out of joint, so that it will be lame for a week trying
to button the thing."
"tOut of joint, is it, sir ? sure it wags all right, sir,
and as nimble as a flea in June."
Finding he was making no headway; Henry
whisked into his room, muttering: " By the foot of
Plutarch ! a man has no chance here at all ; these
women's tongues are hung in the middle."
Kitty laughed ; and thinking how  she would
amuse Carlotta with the little fracas, she hurried into
the square chamber, pulled out the drawer, and took
thence the paper box. No bertha : the pink ribbons
were there, the tissue paper was left, though draggled
and torn, and nothing mote. In a flutter of eager-
ness, and with a sobered face, she looked further ;
her bouquet holder and fan were also missing. In
disordered haste, she ran into the Blue Corner; and.
commenced breathlessly: "Why,~Belle "-she was
talking to empty air. The cast-off garments of the
blonde were flung upon the chairs ; the almond-paste
box, and a pair of torn gloves on the bed ; a few
jessamines scattered about the toilette,,diffused their
sweetness in forlorn neglect, among brushes, combs,
and cosmetiques.;- but the handsome plotter was gone.
Winnie at this moment came by with a pair of
patent-leather shoes she had been sent to fetch, and
.Kitty called out to her:S

PRINCE ALMANAZAR AND LADY DELIGHT. 205
" Where's Miss -BelleWinnie ?-"
" Oh, she be in the thick of the good times afore
this, my fairy ; I laced her up half an hour ago, and
most beautiful she was, indeed : blue do become Miss
Belle like  grand lady to home."
"But d she go alone ?"
"No, Miss Kitty, darlin', she was fetched in Mr.
Nickson's own carriage, her and Miss Ashcroft; I
heard them speak something of fixing the flowers up at
the Folly. It should be a rare fine party. Ye must let
Winnie see her bonnie fairy when ye are 'smarten'd.
Ye'll not be as cross as yon kelpie'; she glowered and
snapped all the while I was running the feets off me ;
she was in that scurry to be off. Indeed, I was near
tellin' her I hoped she 'd never make as great haste
to be out of the place, as she was anxious to be in;
she's over proud, and stomachful, and she looks
down on most, but she's seeking a fate that would
scare an honest girl."
"Winnie, Winnie," called Henry impatiently,
"where are my shoes ? "
"I'm. a coming' ; God love ye, Mr. Henry, sure ye
hain't the patience of a squirrel."
The parting remark made by the blonde, when she
got her kids and push that day, now flashed across
Kitty'; she' had not much heeded it in her soreness
of heart, a4d subsequent events had quite driven it
from  her memory; she felt bitterly hurt; quite
crushed, ad child-like, as there was nothing better
to be done, she dropped into: a chair, and began to


206 PRINCE ALMANAZAR AND LADY DELIGHT.
cry. Carlotta, who was waiting her reappearance,
hair-brush in hand, all ready to plunge into the busi-
ness of dressing, got impatient with her long stay, ~
and after calling twice or thrice, sallied forth to find
what had become of her. . tetchy remonstrance
died on her lips as she espied the poor little girl, and
listened an instant to the heart-breaking sobs which
were convulsing her. One- searching glance into the
tossed-up drawer, and its disordered contents, showed
her the cause.
Ah, that pestilent Fringilla that blessed cow-
bird !thought she; "I devoutly pray that Henry
Gorton will get enough of stylish women this. time.
How a sensible man can be so hoodwinked and bam-
boozled, and led by the nose, I can't contrive ! Why,
she shows her hand just as she does her teeth, every
time she opens her mouth ; I wouldn't ask -over five
seconds to make her out. Come, pet," she said,
taking Kitty in her arms, " I see how it is-but don't
you mind. I'm equal to fifty cow-birds ; come and
be dressed."
Kitty let herself be drawn by the bands of her
woman-friend's love. She was always easily com
forted and consoled by friendly words ; and she pas-
sively followed, but with one pretty 'arm over her
eyes, like a grieved child.
Now, now ! " said Carlotta briskly, " look,
look ! " she brought out of her press a brass-bound
box, which she opened with a tiny key:.i sitting down
beside Kitty, she took hold of one of her wrists, and

N      -

I

}

PRINCE ALMANAZAR AND LADY DELIGHT. 207
pulled the arm around her neck, and laid out on the
pillow a fall of old lace, a necklace, brooch, earrings,
and bracelets of orient pearls, a rare ivory fan, strung
on silken threads, and the prettiest, quaintest cluster
of rose-buds, made of feathers so delicate and truly
tinted, that the perfume they shed might have been
bred -in their hearts. Kitty watched her in silence-;
the quivering breath and a deep sob betraying the
gust of passion which had swept over her, and -her
soft eyes were still heavy with tears ;- she somehow
understood, all unlearned in emotional lore. as she
was, the half unwillingness with which Carlotta
touched the pretty things, and she laid softly a sin-
gle finger upon the busy ones working .for her, and
said:
"Dear Carlie, this. is the P'rubbish ' that was -sent
to you from beyond the sea."
"\Well, what if it is ? as ,it can't talk, it will tell no
tales; you won't feel the touch of any hand upon
it but mine'; and you love me!.' Rare andiprecious,
you see ; worth the sending, and worth the wearing ;
in truth, they will become you; what is the matter?"
Kitty hesitated, and fastened her eyes upon the
precious things which she felt were locked out of
sight, like' faded hopes, and never meant' to see the
light again, and while her color went and came in
rosy splashes, she feared to speak her thoughts, and
shrank away timidly, "self-folding, like a flower that
faints into itself at shut of even."
" I must say it, dear Carlie," she broke out at last;

. }

t


-2O8 PRINCE ALMANAZAR AND LADY DELIGHT.
"don't be' angry, but I cannot put on these pretties.
I never could wear any of the girls' trinkets at school.
Please let me god plain. Now, dear woman-friend,,
don't look so ; I knew I should vex you ; please
don't. I am grateful, but I am only Kitty Clayton.
I haven't .got any holes in .my ears, anyhow. I
should not know myself in jewels; give me one fresh
rose-bud and a couple of geraniums, and don't mind
the. bertha,. I like my dress best without ; it looks
simple, like me."
Carlotta snatched the despised ornaments a .little
brashly, and huddled them back into their casket.
"Lie there," said she grimly, "till you are wanted,
which will be never ; come on, child ; time flies ! "
"Now, Carlie, I don't want to go," sobbed Kitty;
"you are angry, and I can't have any good time at
all. I'll stop at home."
Carlotta was ashamed of her injustice instantly, and
made haste to repair it. "No, no, pet ; I am notan-
gry, only in a hurry ; you shall be dressed just as you
please; you are quite right: those gauds don't suit
you, a little fresh blossom; they never suited anybody
that I know of."
But are you sure you have forgiven me?" per-
sisted Kitty.
"Quite," laughed Carlotta; " look at that tear!
why, it is larger than the largest of the unfortunate
pearls."
"Will you do me a favor, Carlie.?"
"A thousand, darling." Even, Kitty was sharp

r

r
.

PRINCE ALMANAZAR AND LADY PELIGHT; 209
enough to know that the time to get favors from Car-
lotta was after she had shown herself unkind, just,
or selfish.
"Will you wear the pearls and the flowers, and the
bertha to-night, over your black satin ? "
" Me! put on those things ! "  Carlotta looked at
the questioner, and then at her own reflected face in
the mirror.. " And why not ?" questioned the black
eyes ; "you are passably comely ; you are able to
please, if you wish it."
"Belle Brandon says you are awful old, Carlotta,"
insinuated Kitty with a cunning unworthy her simplic-
ity-" too, old for anything."
" She does ! well, child, I can tell you, I never saw
the family Bible that carries her record, but I know
well enough she was walking. before I began to
breathe ; but that doesn't matter in the least: what's
cow-bird to me, or I to cow-bird ?"
"I want to see you dressed fine ; I have often
thought of you so,- with many friends around you,
and lovers, and you smiling and gracious, and win-
some and beautiful; you are beautiful, Carlie. Do
just please me ; you said you would."
"Yes, but to assume that rubbish, it would look as
if my heart was full of something which isn't there.
Pitkin Sterling gave me those things."
" I know it, Carlie," answered Kitty softly, " and
that is why I want to see you in them just once."
A- fresh train of old emotions and desires came
trooping up among the woman-friend's- thoughts, an

f

-          .,i
,            : ;
; ,:

_1 ;
1                       1
A41
_ t       ,y f
,'Y
j'
-                  ,
;
, ;
..k..
i                                e  i
't:
_ 1
s
_               ' i
,
a
2i
a
_          .i
        # ,
t-
t
.
t                                   ,i
'
.a
1
rte.
e               ,-              :
3
1
' i
,S
A
'1
,l
W
t
T
'                   y"
Y l
,  }
S
r  f
.
$

c


S10 PRINCE ALMANAZAR AND LADY DELIGHT.
impulse to prove to Belle that she had powers of
pleasing, that she could shine, year outshine, if she
chose-a curious wish to try again the attractions
which had been so praised by one who, notwithstand-
ing them, had wished to remodel her to his own ideas,
also, a fancy to gratify her pet, and she answered quite
sheepishly for her: "I've as good a right to be a fool
as  anybody, and I'll don the motley to please you;
so waste no more moments. I will show you what
expedition is. I always said I could dress to be mar-
ried in fifteen minutes."
"Thanks, dear Carlie. Now if we but find lovers
up there !"
The robing progressed smoothly and swiftly.
Nothing could be prettier than the wrinkled cream,
even though the only ornaments were fresh rose-buds,
shining ivy leaves, and one little jessamine; You
wouldn't have noticed 'it: you only knew it was there
when you looked. close enough to get a breath of its
fragrance. Carlotta surveyed her work with satisfied
countenance.
" Dear woman-friend," said Kitty, when she had
inspected herself, turning about and, about before the
mirror, " Belle is welcome to my things ; she has not
spoiled my pleasure. Ah!" she added, espying the
face over her shoulder and wheeling rapturously,." I
knew I was right ; you are wonderful ! superb,!"
Carlotta had plaited her tresses, pierced them with
the golde  arrow, and shining' above her -forehead
were the geat pearls. A new spirit seemed to pos-

0

,,
a
'

PRINCE ALMANAZAR AND LADY DELIGHT. 211
sess her with this assumption. a, certain ,radiance
enveloped her with the satin folds, and she moved
swiftly, almost eagerly. T
"Come ! let us be gone !1" said she. " I hear the
voice of the enchanting chanter;- his tune is lively ;
therefore I know he only waits for his women-folk."
Gathering her skirts she passed down the old stair-
case, and there indeed was our lawyer walking up
and down, much braced by his" iron-clad," and sing-
ing, "Come over the sea, maiden; visit me."  You^
may be sure he felt, reasonable pride in his beautiful
charge, as he wrapped her in her fleecy mantle, and
led her to the carriage, which had been swearing
before our gate for at least half an hour.
"What, Belle gone already ? " he asked ; "well,
'tis the early applicant that catches the widower." -
Just as we were about to drive off, a person on
horseback handed in at the window a bouquet, in a
holder of old golden filigree work, richly set with
rubies. "From Miss Walsingham, for Miss Clay-
ton," said he, and galloped swiftly away.
"Who was that young man?" demanded Kitty,
coloring up.
"I am asking myself that very question,"-replied
Henry ; "the voice was as 'familiar as 'Dundee' or
'Old Hundred;' but I fail to place it."
A kind of half suspicion which had glimmered in
Kitty's mind died as quickly as it had. lighted,
though she-kept quiet all the way to the Foly.

:

C
.      '                 i'
rh
M
'                         {
'                    S'
4


CARLOTTA DANCES A QUADRILLE.

CHAPTER XV.
CARLOTTA DANCES A QUADRILLE.
E found the grounds of the villa lighted after
the most approved manner, with Chinese
lanterns hung amongst the lofty branches.
A triumphal arch, bearing a festal. inscription, com-
manded the gravel entrance ; and the broad veranda
Was already filled with gay groups chatting and
walking; and rippling laughter and bright, pleasing,
youthful voices mingled-the deep tones with the
gay trebles, and- the stirring strains of the village
band invited to enjoyment. It was evident that the
host had left nothing undone which ought to be done
in the matter of festive arrangements ; and it was
quite as evident that he must have been aided and
abetted. bya well-skilled female' mind in carrying out
his' designs. Some of the girls caught sight of Kitty
under her hood, as the smart servant marshalled us

'I

'I

Z

I

up the wide staircase, flower-lined, and ;came flutter-
ing about her with joyful greeting. In the empty
dressing-room we slhook out once more the folds of
her exquisite dress, and gave a last loving touch to
the floating hair, with rapturous pride in the child's
beauty. When Henry received her on his arm, and
proceeded up the long drawing-room, he looked as
proud as a king, and I believe he accepted the mur-
mur of admiration she excited, with his chin in the
air, as a tribute justly his due ;- feeling himself a pub-
lic-spirited person to indulge them in a sight of so
much loveliness.
The first group they encountered had Belle Bran-
don for its centre ; she was radiant -and magihificent
in the blue satin, which -I must confess suited her
style and presence exactly. With Kitty's point-lace
bertha shading her ~ shoulders, Kitty's pearl and
parchment fan waving gracefully in her hand, Kitty's
silver bouquet holder, filled with choice flowers,,a gift
of the enamored host, conspicuous in his primrose-
gloved digits; he grasping the elegant trifle with an
air of obsequious devotion, as though it had been the
best piece of plate, won at the best race. Evidently
he was quite far gone;. drunk with the blue eyes'
bewitchment.: The long sprays of cape jessamine
trailed among her blonde curls, and fell in perfumed
profusion over her white shoulders, which with the
teeth, dimples, and so forth, were on full exhibition,
set out to allure. There was a strange hitter, though,
in her 'steely orbs, which might have affrighted a

I
r           Af
, r'3
' t r'T
}
t  8jy

2i3

i
1
_


2t4     CARLOTTA DANCES A Q UADRZLLR.
close observer, a certain power of will and cruel des-
peration.
" Her head was serpent, but ah ! bitter sweet,
She had a woman's mouth with all its pearls complete;
And for her eyes, what could such eyes do there
But gaze on Nickson, what could he do, but stare ? "
The banker was not a close observer of such hint-
ings as concerned the inner life ; he had been drink-
ing too, his eyes were bloodshot, and his tongue
was a little thick already.
On the right of the blonde, and listening with
polite attention, looking also, as in duty bound, at
what was paraded for such looks, stood a young
man, with straight hair, a ruddy face, and wearing in
his button-hole -a .single blossom of the cape-flower.
She was trying ,for him .some of her brilliant talk;
and it was curious to observe how easily she managed
her smiles, and how warily she preserved the atten-
tion of all who approached her, and how coolly she
stood the fire of their admiring glances.
Kitty felt the hot blood surge over her face, when
her eyes met those of the wearer of the jessamine.
Instantly Henry seized upon him joyfully and pre-
sented him, "My dear friend Archie Laurie "--
"Prince Almanazar, if you please!" replied he,
bowing low,'and offering his hand, while Henry came
near commencing a tune in his astonishment. Kitty
ventured another look from beneath her dropped'lids,
and catching the infectious, quizzical good-nature,

t

H

CARLOTTA DANCES A QUADRILLE.        215
with which his face was brimming, she echoed softly
his laugh. Still holding the hand he had taken, he
said in a low tone:
I ought to beg pardon for not making myself.
known to-day, but really it was too good fun; I saw
you hadn't the ghost of an id   who I was; and
enjoyed your innocent praises too much to cut them
short. Don't lay it up against me-I won't do so
any more. The Lady Delight gave me a flower ; it
matches one I espy upon her bosom; will she also ac-
cept me for her knight this evening ? just a rehearsal
of the part ; I am all ready to tilt at the Brazen Gates,
having her colors in my crest: metaphorically speak-
ing, of course.
"'No other favor will I weal,
Till this sweet token shall decay,
And, wilted, hef to be thrown away.'
"Take my arm, please, while I make sure of all the
waltzes on your programme. You promised me that
much, you know, in the chariot. I see a long line of
fellows swarming up to ask you."
"You labor under a delusion, an illusion, and so
on," answered Kitty,-gayly. " I don't remember any
such promise; indeed, it is impossible, because I
did not know you would be here. I supposed I had
seen the last of you. I will keep one for you, though,
and I will introduce you to a partner who is nice:
there she goes !  Jerusha Peacock -he- name is,
Doesn't she galop well ?"

-              .
'                              -    _ ;
; ,;

:
,
 "  .
ji
F
s
t
/     T
T
..
.1


6 CARL OTTA DANCES 4 Q UADRJLLE.
"Truly, the dancing of the girl is to be commended,
for she answereth the music handsomely ; but I hope
to -trip it with the fair maid who sleeps under trees."
Well, there is one ; the next I am not engaged
for, unless Cousin Henry wants me. Oh, there ! he
is going to stand, up with Carlotta. How nice ! "
"Extremely nice.. There it is: Mr. Archie Lau-
rie, No. 3."
Mr. Laurie was of the style of young men called
chatty, whose subjects are exhaustless.; and the
merry talk flowed on as between old friends. He
evidently enjoyed.it very much too, because his eyes
got bright and his cheeks reddened to as rich a glow
as Kitty's- own. Miss Brandon's surprise became
something like fury, whf h deepened in intensity, as
she surveyed the " chit's" perfect-toilet in its charm-
ing detail ; and an . ugly. sneer curled her handsome
lip as she said, seeking the first opportunity of speak-
ing aside, and she spoke in an unpleasant, under-
tone:
"I thought you were not coming, Mignonne. I
had no idea 'we were playing comedy."
" I have finished playing or being played with," said
Kitty, very quietly.  " I am in sober earnest now,
Belle. I bear no malice. I have been your willing
slave, but you can't make me fetch and carry any
more ; your charm is broken. You are untrue, un-
kind, and selfish; and' I will not call such a woman
my friend. You need.not look at me that way. You
dare not hurt me. I am not afraid of you. You

CARLOT'TA DANCES A QUADRILLE.

217

need not fear that I shall tell what I know of you,
You need not think I shall ever mention any money
obligations. You are welcome to what you have got,
but you will get no more;. although the things' you
meanly carried off this evening are costly, although
they are my father's gifts, you may keep them. I
would not touch them again at any price you could
offer me. I should not like to be reminded of trickery,
lying, meanness, as I 'would certainly be every time
they came in my sight. I am not angry. I don't
hate you. I only despise you."
Kitty finished as she had begun, very quietly.
Her firm, composed attitude, and clear, decided ac-
cents gave a, glimpse of. power underlying her soft,
baby ways, which might upon occasion develop a
self-sustaining "poise of which the owner never
dreamed. Belle was thoroughly astonished as well as
enraged. Just then Mr. Laurie came, in his character
of Prince, to claim the hand of Lady Delight ; and as
with a cool, departing nod, she walked away on the
arm of the young man Belle had just taken some trou-
ble to enchant, I could not.tell what rage and bitter-
ness, envy, malice, and all uncharitableness, filled the
soul of the handsome woman in the blue satin. One
thing is certain : it would be-a pity if an opportunity
ever presented itself to act out any of the wicked
wishes which crowded her mind and glittered through
her blue eyes' steely light;. should such chance ever
culminate, poor Kitty would need her wits about her.
The blonde broke off her meditons to smile ravish-
10

1
i

r
,
_
,;
,
K,
r'        ,'
~
r
ti,
- ,
-,
.k
I
P         ..


21 S   CARLOTTA DANCES A QUADRILLE.
ingly upon Mr. Nickson, who begged the honor of
the first quadrille.
"Shall we enter the ring for a cup, Miss-Brandon?
I don't know but I may make a few false starts, being
a little down in my training ; but I expect we shall
come ,in on the home stretch. As. soon as we arm
warm in harness-we can step out with a long stride."
It was bitter, for after all Belle was born and bred
a lady and hated coarseness. Of all her many lovers,,
this was the lowest, the meanest. She had. played
with noble hearts in her time. She had lost lovers
fit for rulers ; and to stoop to this old, battered, dis-
sipated, worthless, gambling jockey! Needs must,
though, when poverty and. pride spur on ; and the
dreadful old-maid future loomed right before her--
just at hand. She forced herself to smile graciously,
and with pleasing dignity she took her place in the
same set with Kitty, who had already forgotten her
and her doings. And while the blonde seemed en-
grossed with the deep devotion of her elderly aspi-
rant, and his horsey, frontier talk, she found oppor-
tunity covertly to watch the gay couple opposite, and
to feel rage at their lively conversation, and evident
pleasure in each other. Meanwhile she was also cal-
culating her chances. Had there been a ghost of a
probability that Mr: Clayton would come on, she
would have waited for him with a new motive--the
pleasure of humbling his daughter. But that was a
foregone conclusion. It would be a gratification to
entrap the youth Archie. She never doubted her

CARL OTTA DANCES A QUADRILLE.       2r9
power to do so with sufficient opportunity ; and she
reflected that a few words called the" Marriage vow"
would be no hindrance to such pastime; and she re-
solved to finish her fate there and then. Even her
blutred and warped consciousness perceived that-she
could not remain much longer an inmate of the Red
Cottage, especially with Kitty Clayton under the
same roof; and while she shot killing glances,. and
danced with voluptuous grace; she never forgot for a
moment' to feel cruel spite at the child for her recent,
plain speaking, her 'sweet beauty, her utter uncon-
sciousness of her neigh orhood, her engrossmentin
her ruddy-faced partne , and her simple enjoyment
of the dancing.
Of course, the two elegant girls in their costly array,
worn with such easy unconsciousness, crossing- each
other in the changes of the quadrille, were the won-
der and admiration of all Merry Bank there assem-
bled, and I am afraid some of the young ladies in their
tarlatans, with which they had been so eminently
pleased, became envious at the eclipse they suffered.
I know Susan Dusenbury feltthat her time and money
were thrown away on the cerulean-blue 'silk, and
Jerusha Peacock's green tarlatan was a failure. Poor
unconscious Kitty lost popularity, and became the ob-
ject of some cutting, remarks, on account of the
marked attentions of the bienvenue, who had been
the coming man round whom expectations had centred.
Belle.'also' was not spared, was well-watched, and
severely commented upon 'by the wall-flowers arid

11

i


a

CARLO TTA DANCES A QUADRILLE.

CARLOTTA DANCES A QUADRILLE.

/

single young women, aspirants to the holy estate of
mat imony. But Kitty was oblivious, and Belle too
much engrossed in her pressing business to waste a
thought upon the Merry Bankers, whp were to be-
come her townspeople and everyday critics, most of
whom she regarded as the small dust of the balance
at best.
Henry, who happened to pass her where she stood
after the Lancers, waiting an ice, which her attentive
partner had flown on the wings-or love to procure-or
to be a little less flowery and more truthful, had gone on
legs a trifle unsteady,'owing to frequent imbibement of
his own liquors-was attracted by the -fan she was
displaying, in one of her carelessly elegant attitudes.
Now Henry is a very close observer of women and
their apparel, and had greatly admired the choice
trifles which Kitty's box had contained. In the hlurry
and bustle of court-week, he had missed the plotting
and counter-plotting among the inmates of the Red
Cottage. Still he remembered his pet Kitty's swollen
eyes at the dinner-table, and some random words he
had caught from time to time, and which had chimed
in curiously enough with the divorce-case he was work-
ing up. Now the whole meaning dawned upon him
at a glance. After provokingly scanning the recherclde
toilette of his stylish guest a moment, with his hands
behind his back, he began to hum a doleful lay, but
stopped short in it to say:
"Belle, you make me think of one of theold fables
in my Latin reader, called 'the Jackdaw.' It is ex-

221

feeding lucky you are not that jackdaw, because in
your case all the plucking must be done by a tender
little dove, so you are quite safe ; all your borrowed
plumes may securely .flaunt. But by the foot of
Plutarch! what queerities women are ! I thank God I
am not a woman, to be touched with so many giddy
offences as He hath generally taxed their whole sex
withal."
A slight tinge of heightened color upon her practised
cheek was all the blonde suffered to become visible,
as.with a welcoming smile she greeted Mr. Nickson's
reappearance,. and gracefully accepting the ice he
brought, she turned her back upon her tormentor.
"I have not the least idea," she replied.(" her eye-
lids opened bland)," " what you are talking about, but
I know it must be something interesting, and I want
to find the sense, if possible ; as soon as I get through
my round of engagements, I'll sit down somewhere
in a corner and you  shall explain."
She quite fascinated our lawyer's eyes with her
strange expression of face. "Her throat was ser-
pent, but the words she spoke came as through bub-
bling honey.'' He could have sworn he had done her
wrong, her voice had such a clear ring, "warn1, tremu-
lous, devout, psalterean." Not so Mrs. Ramble, whose
low, malicious laugh sounded in Belle's ears a§ she fin-
ished her speech. Wheeling quickly about, she con-
fronted that snuffy lady, who was edging here and
there amongst the crowd, arrayed in her best bomba--
zine, having her folded handkerchief across her arm,

220

"        " '

0


222       ZLOTTA DANCES A~ QUADRILLE.
and the spectacles, with which'she had been examin-
ing all the dresses, in her fingers. Had Miss Brandon
been wise, she  would have restrained the contempt-
which curled her haughty lip, and allowed her enemy
to go unaccosted on her way ; but Henry's speech,
and the. consciousness that this old woman had heard,
and enjoyed it, piled over all her other, causes of an-
noyance, exasperated her so, much that she was glad
of a victim.
"How comes this pre-Adamite here ? " she ex-
claimed, drawing away from the neighborhood of the
bombazine ; " of course she is not an invited guest;'
and it is too- soon for the gathering of the cold
pieces!"
Mr. Nickson did not hear the remark, being called
off to attend to the forming of the -sets ; but Mrs.
Ramble heard it well, and she stopped, eager for an-
encounter with her foe in this fair field; and she
launched a preparatory affront out of her watery,
deep-set eyes.
"Why, Belle Brandon!" she began in a high-keyed
voice, pinching the blue skirt, and holding it fast;
"why, massy me ! how beautiful you do look in
Kitty's satin frock ! Did you buy it, or borrow it,
or steal it, hey? How you have got your hair rigged
up! She's .a kind-hearted little creature, isn't she ?
My land ! if that ain't her fan you're flirting round so
genteel; and her bokay bottle, or whatever you call
that thing-a-ma-jig. Why, you've got on all Kitty's
things that come in the box the other day from New

CARLOTTA .DANCES A QUADRILLE.

Orleans. You. do beat the Dutch; and you know
who the Dutch beat, don't you ? Kitty's here, ain't
she? Oh, yes; .I see her over there, jest as putty as
a sweet pea. I heard tell about her lending you
that fifty dollars up to Lamode's. Is this the han-
kercher ? du 'let's look at it; I never seen a 'nose-
wiper that cost fifty dollars ; I'm glad to get enough
on 'em for fifty cents. '.She seized the filmy bit of
lace, and spread .it in her fingers. "Well, you do
take the tuck out of the whole ! Kitty's ring onto
it ! I must run round and see what the child has
left.  I should have thought she'd a-been clean
stripped."
Then advancing her wrinkled face close to the
creamy ear of the handsome blonde, who stood upon
the rack hemmed in by many listeners, she added,in
a stage whisper, "You remember, I degsay, what I
told you and you told me that day up in the blue-
-room ! I thought -as like as not I'd make you re-
member it. I rather expect I'm even with you now."
A giggle from Susan Dusenbury, and the two Miss
Standbys, the elderly twins who had never been sep-
arated a day in their lives-who had also been victims
of Belle's sarcasms on previous occasions-showed
how keenly they relished her position. It was really
wonderful what a facility the had for making enemies
among her own sex.
During a. pause in the dancing, Kitty, who had
had plenty of partners and waltzed herself weary,
discovered Miss" Walsingham upon, a sofa.  That

'z22.

4


224    CARL OTTA DANCES A QUADRILLE.
stately lady drew back her velvet dress, and smilingly
beckoned for the little girl to come and sit beside
her.
"A few minutes among the wall-flowers will be
good for you, my love, after so much admiration."
The - affectionate glance accompanying her words
showed how thoroughly she enjoyed Kitty's triumph.
"Pray, how do you find Prince Almanazar ?  I hope
he is up to the part. Let me see--good, sensible,
brave, and kind.'"
Kitty blushed scarlet.  "I think I have been
through the whole chapter of blunders to-day-.
a perfect blunderbuss ; but you must not laugh
at me ; you promised to be my friend-and friends
are always sympathetic and charitable. I-paid well
for my silly gabble to-night, in the shame- and con-
fusion I felt when-I was presented to Mr. Laurie."
Aunt Elinor laughed, as she tap ed the round
cheek turned toward her, with her black fan. "Had
you a pleasant ride home ?" asked she.
"Oh, delightful ! I suppose you heard all-how I
went to sleep like a little goose ; and I expect I
should have slept till this time, if he had not
wakened me up. Really, now, don't laugh, auntie,
but it was a little like the Prince and the water-lily;-
wasn't it? ".
"Well, not so very much ; you are vastly more
like a fresh rose-bud, or a-sweet violet, than a color-
less water-lily; and" as for the boy Archie, you
mustn't go to work'and glorify him, woman-fashion ;

CARLOTTA DANCES A QUADRILLE.    225

t

because he is only a jolly, good-tempered youngster,
o nearer perfection than you are."
Kitty sent a swift, shy look at the gentleman who
was standing up with Bianca Ashcroft, and another
into the eyes of the stout lady who advised her.
All alike ! " thought Aunt Elinor ; " well,
'There's nothing half /so sweet in life as Love's
young dream;' so let her enjoy it. Pity it fades so
soon ! "
"I was glad Mr. Laurie happened along just as he
did, for I was horribly tired, and never in the world
could have reached home in time to dress."
"Happened ! you precious little simpleton ! I
sent the youth. after you, as soon as Flora could be
put into harness, which took time, as she was in the
pasture, and objected to being caught.  It would
have been much more sensible and old-dameish to
have kept you, but I have whims as well as other
people; and as you had put Prince Almanazar into
my head, I thought I would send the flying horse in
pursuit ; and fortunately, your charming little fashion
of folding your hands, shutting your eyes, opening
your mouth, and dozing off at the foot of a green
tree, like, a maid in a pastoral, made it all come right.:
I assure you, Archie went-into many raptures over
your picturesque pose, and bitterly regretted the lack
of genius which hindered his conveying to canvas the
'one warm- flushed moment,' which he declares he
can never-never forget!"
" ButI don't believe I slept with my mouth open.;
10*


226    CARLOTTA .DANCES A.QTADRILLE.

I am sure I never do ; such a figure ! " replied Kitty,
not at all pleased with the picture.,
" So sayeth the witness. Do you see that horrible
old woman over there ? well, she has been sitting by
me, giving me a full and particular account of Miss
Brandon's outfit. Though ,I happen to know some-
thing of her ancient achievements in her peculiar
line, I must say she has out-Brandored Brandon this
time. Now .I must also scold you, silly child ; are
you going to let every designing person prey upon
you ? Don't you know the world i full of Harpies
and Gorgons ? You must learn' to . do battle for
yourself-stand!  'The - ground's your own, my
brave!"
"But I don't feel comfortable so, auntie ; I like
peace and pleasantness. After all, what does it mat-
ter for a few paltry wearables, if they must- be kept
at the price of prickles and stings and claws ? They
are not essential to salvation ; I an just as well off,
without those things, and with them Belle is achiev-
ing a triumph."
" Kitty, Kitty ! there are two sides to you'; you
are both hilly and wise. I was about to say you'
must get a lover to take care of you ; but I believe,
on the contrary, that you would be able to take care
of a lover, if need be."
"Thank you, dear auntie," replied Kitty, quite
soberly. "I mean to be wise like the- serpent, and
harmless like the dove."
She laid a soft hand upon the hearty one of her

new friend, who felt the quiet power under the baby
ways-as I had done often-and she took the fingers
within her own with:a kind pressure.
"You. have got the right end of it, darling-the
true secret of happiness. Poor Belle!
" Yes ; I wish Mrs. Ramble would not go talking
about what does not in the least concern her. I 'am
very happy. It is good to have friends-see my
pretty flowers !
"I am glad you like the bauble, darling. - You.
have a precious right to it ; for Paul Clayton gave it
to me when I was a young lassie like you ; now I
return it to you,, and you can't help thinking of a
stout old woman every time you carry it; that pleases
me."
"You loved rmy papatwhen he was young," said
straightforward Kitty, with an intuitive perception of
the case. "Why then did you not marry 1him?"
"I had a sort of liking for the lad," replied Aunt
Elinor. "He never knew it. I thought one while
that he liked me, but as it turned out, he didn't."
"How I wish he would come now, and make you
my mamma !"
"Nonsense, child ! I haven't seen him for, twenty
years. I'm -old and stout, and I dare say ,I shouldn't
know him if ILmet him," replied Aunt Elinor with a
little flutter she was heartily ashamed of. " Look f
look ! " she added briskly, " at the Ranble ! she is as
busy as a honey-bee or a yellow-jacket over her mor-
sel of gossip. Observe the sly loQks,. the wins, the

. at
trF.
3
yu Z

CEIRLOT.rA DANCES A QUADRILLE.  227

I


CARLOTTA DANCES A QUADRIYLE.

CARL OTTA DANCES A QUADRILLE.

whispers, the covert laughter. which are levelled at
that handsome plotter. Don't you think she is get-
ting her pay ? verily, the way of the transgressor is
hard. Every female in the room knows that each
article of her beautiful costume is borrowed or begged
-and of course every married male will know all
about it before- to-morrow morning. Purgatory is
nothing to her state of mind at this moment. But it
won't cure her !"
"Too bad, auntie : what do people want to be so
ill-natured for? There isn't surely any person so un-
kind as to carry Mrs. Ramble's talk to her ears."
"It doesn't need words, my dear ; look at her
face-did you ever see rage and mortification better
veiled? admire that gushing smile into Mr. Nickson's
eyes, after a baleful dart, shot from her blue orbs, at
the snuffy old-woman. If an eyebeam were a dag-
ger, how fatal would that one prove ! verily she had
gossiped her, last this night. Upon my word, that
girl is a wonderful creature ! . If she only had a
heart, what a woman she would be!"
Yes, indeed, auntie; she can be very charming ;
and she is the"'handsomest girl here, isn't she? what
beautiful hair she has ! "
" Hair! yes, but those crisped, snaky, golden locks,
which make such wanton. gambols with the wind,
upon supposed fairness, are often known ,to be the
dowry of a second head; the skull that bred them
lying barely in- the sepulchre," replied Aunt Elinor,
grimly.

(

"Now you wrong Belle, auntie ; those floating
curls are all her own."
"Yes, it appears so ; that is, she bought, and I
hope she paid for them."
" No, no ; but they grew there," persisted Kitty,
laughing.
"I wouldn't swear to that, my dear ; unless you
have tried them hair by hair. Belle Brandon's ways
are too wonderful for you, simple Kitty."
Their talk was interrupted by Jerusha Peacock, to
whom the party was an utter failure. - "I hate such
fandangos," said she wearily. "The starch is all out
of my tarlatan; I've spent half the evening looking
at that brush-heap" (pointing to a moss-basket)
" and counting the braids in Jane Potter's chignon;
she sat down right in front of me. And -then Harold
Ashcroft brought up that lean owl; they always bring
up all the forlorn young men to me ; and when I
asked him for a biscuit, he fetched it on a fork, and
then he came with chicken-salad and a teaspoon,
and after everybody was gone out of the room, he
came back and found me looking at some gold-
fish, and he said, 'He ! he ! there you are : the last
one-what are you going to do now?' And I
marched off saying,.' I shall join my friends immedi-
ately.' I think. parties are a bore."
Just at this instant Tom Larkins convoyed an as-
pirant for an introduction to Miss Clayton, and leav-
ing poor Jerusha to Aunt Elinor's kindness, which
was quite equal to the occasion, Kitty took her place

I

229

228


230    CARLOTTA DANCES A QUADRILLE.
in a quadrille just as Carlotta advanced upon the arm
of young Laurie, whom she had been used to pet as
a boy, and for whom she retained her full liking.
Her face was all unlocked, cheery, and winning ;
her holiday good-hum'or suited her attire. I had been
admiring her-all the evening, and Henry and I had
proudly compared- notes on the completeness of our
garden of spices.  Kitty and her partner took the
head, Carlotta stood on the right, and the opposite
place was empty till just before the quadrille com-
menced. Then a gentleman talking with Bianca
Ashcroft came and took the vacant " fourth."  Kitty
happened to 'be looking at her woman-friend in her
pearls and satin, and she started at sight of the quick
change which passed upon her features. Her eyes
were fixed upon her vis-d-vis, and her face was white
as death, and Kitty could almost hear her heart-throbs,
and she knew instantly that Pitkin' Sterling had come
home. She forgot to be polite to her partner in
watching the couple so long separated and so unex-
pectedly brought close together again.  It seemed
like a tale out of a story book. Only bows and quiet
salutations were exchanged through the dance, and
at its close Kitty ran breathless back to Miss Wal-
singham with the news.
"Carlotta's lover has come! look, they are speak-
ing together now ! Oh! I hope they will make up di-
rectly."
Meanwhile Carlotta stood- composedly still under
the questioning looks, of the returned sailor who had

Id

.
z
'

CARLOTTA DANCES A QUADRILLE.      231
desired to mould her to his model. She had gotten
back all her senses, and was ready to hear whatever
he would say.
"I have your last letter in my pocket, Carlotta,
which I will discuss with you if you give me leave to
come and see you."
" Certainly I will give you leave. I, for one, have not
forgotten our compact to talk together on your return,
no matter what we might find expedient to say. I
demand as my right the fulfilment of that pledge."
Mr. Sterling smiled. "I could believe that I'took
leave of you last evening out by the Scotch rose
hedge; you have not changed in the least, either in
voice or manner."~
" I don't intend to change, sir. I am quite .satis-
~   fied with my identity as I know it."
"Oh ! I am entirely aware of that ; you expended.
some pains to let me distinctly understand that impor-
tant and perfectly self-evident fact."
S "I hope I made it clear, sir ; such was my en-
deavor."
"Don't be sharp., Carlotta! look a little bit sweet
at a poor sailor boy, who hasn't had a surfeit of
sweet looks for a couple of years."
" Oh, certainly, 'both men and women belie their
nature when they are not kind,' sayeth 'Festus,' your
favorite."
"And sayeth well. I am glad that you wear my
pearls sometimes, they rarely become you. I haven't
seen such eyes as yours since I lost sight of. a lady


_

232

CARLOTTA DANCES A QUADRILLE.

V

CARLOT7TA DANCES A QUADRILLE.

233

standing amoiig the roses. Won't you wink once for
me?"
"Nonsense. No. I haven't so much as looked at
this trumpery for an age, sir. It is a mere happen-so
that I have it on to-night. I unearthed the ,rubbish
to please a child, whose whims cropped out in this
direction unexpectedly."
Trumpery! rubbish ! Carlotta, and yet an em-
press wears poorer jewels.. How, then, about the
golden arrow ? was that hidden up also ? "
" No, sir ; I have put it on once each year, on the
return of the day on which you asked me to be your
wife. I have worn it, and have enjoyed thinking of
you as you ought to have been, and of myself as I
might have been if you had been less pragmatical and
more satisfactory.".
"Don't provoke me, Carlotta! I have come with a
heart full of tenderness, willing to take you at your
own valuation."
"You think so ; on the contrary, I see that you be-
lieve yourself all in all, and I am only a woman.
'I could.endure chains nowhere patiently, and chains
at home, where I am free by birthright, not at all;'
therefore it is my belief that you will take your heart
away again.
"aYes, I want to be all in all; .I mean to be, Iam
resolved to be ; come, dance with me, and don't
quarrel any more this evening; we'll have a grand
pow-wow to-morrow morning, and read over your
horrible letter together; or I will recite to- you; I

have it verbatim et literatim. You haven't shaken
hands with an old friend yet'; you can afford me that
much, I am sure ; I won't presume on your affable-
ness to cut short any arguments."
Carlotta laughed, and put her hand into the one'
he offered. I don't believe she would, though, if she
had counted on such a hearty squeeze as she got;
but she did get it; and it was over, and she made no
comments. Everybody who loved her knew that
she was happy.; she could not help the radiance and
glory of her love from shining through her, any more
than' a cactus bloom could fold its petals. over its
heart in the glowing sunlight. I must say I was re-
joiced; I wanted her to get married to this good
fellow ; and Henry and I walked away arm in arm
to talk secretly over the opening future we both
desired.

e
z
A


MAKING LOVE IN THE BALL-ROOM    235

CHAPTER XVI.
MAKING LOVE IN THE BALL-ROOM.
ELLE    BRANDON .carried herself loftily
through' all the disagreeables of the night-
among all the titters and sneers and scornful
looks; they came from the women, and. she never
greatly regarded the opinions of her; own sex. Meet-
ing-Kitty now and then chatting with Archie Laurie,
she did wish for "a little time to carry him offfrom
her ; but she could not in the present #ositi'on of
affairs afford to wait. Mrs. Ramble's ridiculous tales
might reach masculine ears, and redound to her pre-
judice, even with the banker. "I ought to have, a
tall, good-looking husband ; I always meant to have
one with black hair to set off my fairness, hanging on
hisarm. Ah ! poor Henriques; he was a handsome
bruno," she thought, as she watched the merry pair.
"Eh ! that horrible cat! -I could choke her. with

pleasure!"  She closed her soft, dimpled fingers
viciously over her flowers, as an 'aggravating cackle
reached her from Mrs. Ramble. "Bah! how my feet
ache ! how stupid it all is ! how weary I am of it! -I
wish I was a gray mouse in a wainscot."
Just then Mr. Nickson appeared with Jerusha
Peacock on his arm, whose face was quite shortened
and chirk, and who giggled vivaciously in apprecia-
tion of some titbit 'of wi uttered by the host, and
Belle turned her thought steadily toward him. He
must answer, he was so rich ! He could give her a
table to sit at, and she resolved to occupy the head,
even though she must look at him opposite her every
day for the rest of her life. She deliberately made
up her mind to ignore the ugly tales of his former ex-
ploits, which were, thanks to Mrs. Ramble's industry,
beginning to be rife in Merry Bank-his jockeying,
gambling, his coarse falseness to' women; his dead
wife, her old friend, beaten, distracted, heart-broken;
the whole terrible scene had been portrayed to her-,
the cruel blows, the dreary wandering through the
dark night-the dismal hiding in the old school-house
--the terrible finding of the two bodies, the mother
and child-the mad uproar of the town-the secret
flight of the wicked man. -'She put them all behind
her, but they were strange thoughts which flitted
through her brain-strange for a woman who looks
in her lover's face, and it was a hard, col glitter
which gleamed in her blue eyes. A vision of possi-
ble -scenes in her wedded life arose before her, and

I


MAKING LOVE IN THE BALL-ROOM.

she set her sharp, white teeth, and pushed on her
Way.   It needed but one alluring eyebeam, one
melting, gushing look, and he was at her side. Her
splendid, luscious beauty kindled his sensual nature,
and his eyes, which had a mean fashion of turning
aside while honest people regarded them, gloated
upon her charms ; she endured his bold gaze without
the falling of an eyelid ; nay, she courted it. In the
deep bay-window with the cool night-wind blowing
back her curls, scattering sweetness from her-wreath
of jessamines ; the noise of the music, and the meas-
ured tread of .the dancers, and the hum of young
voices vibrating on the air; shut in to privacy by the
trailing curtains, innocence and youth outside-he
offered.to her his battered old heart, all shrunk and
withered long ago ; his shaking hand, foul with many
a cheating act; -his deadened, degraded manhood,
reeking with debauch, dragged through vile scenes
and dirty ways ; and she, knowing it all, suffered him
to draw toward him her stately head, beautiful as
Juno, With its perfumed crown, and to lay it against
his spotless waistcoat, and did not shudder nor shrink
from his rapturous embrace, though her sweet
maiden-breath mingled with his, all rank with the reek
ofdrunkenness.*ithe young, handsome, proudwoman,
with intellect enough to make a .name, industry
enough to keep it ; with health, vigor, and versatile
accomplishments, was aboutto surrender them all to
a master, was about to barter them all for money!
And her white bosom swelled with triumph when she

glanced at the glittering circlet spanning her finger,
the pledge and .token of success. It was a costly
thing, rare and choice, worthy of the hand it adorned.
To say trdly, the happy man had been carrying it
about in this vest, waiting for this culminating
moment.
At last he would be rich, independent, splendid !
No. more miserable managing and plotting, no more
sneaking, despicable necessities. She sent back a
thought to some former scenes of her life, when she
had said the same words to herself with infinitely.
brighter prospects, and had lived long enough to
prove them but idle breath. This last chance must
be the victorious winning. True, she did just once
glance at the lanky hair, the bloodshot, cunning
eyes, the purple, hairy, shaking old hand grasping
hers, so white and dimpled ; all so drearily different
from the husband she would like, from any of the
many she had thought to have. "George Blair!"
Ah! there came a bitter pang; her soul died within
her, but only for one brief moment. Gathering her-
self together soul and body, with a haughty gesture
she pushed resolutely away all such thoughts, and
walked proudly down the rooms, and stood among
the guests, with the husband she would take, " to
love, honor, obey, till death them should part."
Poor Belle ! after all, she had scarcely a fair chance ;
no loving, judicious mother to guide and govern her
wayward spirit, to point an aim for her ambition, to
root out her selfishness, and curb her towering pride,

!I

237

236

MAA7NG LOVE IN THE BALL-ROOM.


MAKING LOVE IN THE BALL-ROOM.

239

to lead her affections -softly among domestic virtues.
Marriage, the only object of pursuit and attainment;
thrust before her from babyhood up. Money, gran-
-deur, style, fashion, the highest types of life-the
coveted possessions. Little account of genuine man-
hood was made in the practical instructions she re-
ceived.  Small vices were winked at ; great ones
ignored ; and no reckoning whatever upon truth,
honesty, rectitude ; so the exterior was polished, at-
tractive; and golden..' Belle Brandon might have been
as good as the average, hedged in by proper influen-
ces. Circumstances make as many good people as
inborn virtues. Absence of temptation keeps as many
correct lives as native love of purity. .Belle Brandon
had no such thoughts as these in her mind at this
epoch in her affairs. Her prime object attained, she
lent her energies to the next stepin her pathway,
viz.: the securing a refuge and safe retreat till the
day other wedding. She was resolved not to go to
New York ; not to show herself there till after the
ceremony. She hid no desire to flaunt Mr. Nickson
as a betrothed ; as a husband-appendage it would' be
different. Her uncle was in Europe, and she knew
quite well nothing could be effected with Aunt Isa-
doi-e, and she meant to remain at the Red Cottage
till she became a br-ide. It was a delicate thing to
manage ; but she rose equal to the occasion. By ob-
taining a private conference with our lawyer ; by
tears, penitence, grief, and loveliness, she won upon
his sympathy, inspired his pity, and gained her point.

Three weeks after the f6te at the Folly, Mr. Nickson
took her from among us a wife, making short woo-
ing that he might exhibit his prize at Saratoga, New-
port, and other marts, before the season should be
finished, and the great American show closed for the
year.

j ,
' .
_    7c.
jf
...     -
J
i
it-

*

Y
23Q
8

A AKING LOVE IN THE BALL-R O ©M

.,.      1 i
-- - F
i


PAUL AND VRGLNIA.;

CHAPTER XVII.
PAUL AND VIRGINIA.

HE wonderful party over, and Belle Brandon
Nickson gone, the rest of the summer flew
evenly and pleasantly away. Mr. Archie
Laurie availed himself of Kitty's permission, and not
only called the next morning after that festive occa-
sion, but several other mornings; and Aunt Elinor
also kept her promise, coming in her handsome
carriage, and taking Kitty away to the Quince-Bush,
nothing loath, for a long visit. The old love for Paul
Clayton found -a new spring of tenderness in his pretty
daughter, and the stout lady manifested the great-
est possible interest in her sayings and doings, and
listened to her childish prattle and sensible talk (our
Kitty could be soberly sensible upon occasion, in a
grave, quiet, old-fashioned way) ; and she told her
many tales of her youth, her trials and.victories; her

journeying in foreign lands, and the strange peoples
she had seen, in rich, racy language, as strong and
vigorous as her full-flowing voice, and her personable,
independent self. Best of all, Kitty loved the boy-
and-girl frolics, where " Paul" was the hero ;- the
Roaring River life, among the breezy hills ; and
through the raconteur she made acquaintance with
many of our old favorites, who would, have been her
friends, butfor the peculiar accidents of her life which
isolated her from the people and places known and
loved-by the last of the Claytons.
Aunt Elinor -read and studied with the child-
guided her taste by her own rare cultivation. Ear-
nest and indefatigable, as in her flower-growing and
stock-raising, she made the visit a rich harvest for
Kitty, who, though never an enthusiastic scholar or
great bookworm, still took in much good knowledge,,.
and lived long enough to thank the tireless teacher for a
beginning, of which she reaped the fruits in her whqle
after life. We were. the more willing to have her
leave us because we had our hands full of Belle Bran-
don, and we did not wish our sweet flower to come in
further contact with that arch plotter.
Carlotta was full of her own life; and it was
strange how a rekindling of her smouldering love
softened her towards the woman for whom her sweet-
est word had been "cow-birdr" or "pestilent
Fri  la.' Carlotta was beautiful in her happiness.
ma   and piquant still, full of pithy, pungent
owed a de1icte willingness to cov r with

};,
f     _..
+:
          ;r
.'    j
.     -
e                          11 "
__,
-                  '.  li   4,
;,
._               _'
.                    ;  _
4
. i
i-
_   _
( . ,
_      ,.
"                     I!  '
t
,
-
1                        ti
'    -
,
i
.it  _ f,
,      _
{t
lr'
. '                        it"   ,
. ' ; '
'            "E
-         F ,
-  M        a34= ,

A

i

24!

Ya
_    i
t
-
i
i


-I

PAJL AND VIRGINIA.

243

S242           PAUL AND VIRGINIA.
a mantle of charity poor Bell 's faults and sins.. And
Henry came off vastly better than he expected in'his
confession of the extorted permissionhe had accorded
for her prolonged sojourn, and its avowed consumma-
tion. And though she did not duplicate the kiss of
peace and forgiveness gentle Kitty Clayton left upon
the handsome bride's lips at parting, she pleasantly,
assisted' in the preparations-fancy cooking, jellies,
black cake, 'and so on-and bade her "good-by, and
every happiness ; " and what is quite as worthy of
mention, she refrained from all cutting speeches and
provoking taunts, when our 'lawyer discovered that he
Ihad-fallen heir to a long list of dress-makers' and other
bills, bequeathed to him by the departed blonde.
As for Archie and Miss Kitty, they were as happy
as children '-together. 'They made no secret of their
fondness fQr each other; the young fellow's manly
proportions had not outgrown his boyish jollity, and
the two fished in the creek, rode the ponies, ran
races, and frolicked, like the light-hearted youths
they were, He even taught the lassie to play the
classic game of "mumbleAhe-peg," and-insisted that
she should draw out the stick driven into 'the ground
with four right strokes of the knife-blade, according
to time-immemorial usage:; which feat she accom
polished to the' peril of her little white teeth, amidst
much merry jesting, Aunt Elinor presiding as umpire
to see fair play.,
Kitty learned to row on the pond, and originated
with Miss Walsingham's help-who entered warmly

1"r}-f   ' _

r

into the affair, and did all the stitching on her'
" Singer," as if she wzre governing a rebel-a costume
for their fishing and woodland.excursions. A broad-
brimmed Leghorn hat d la Wateau, ornamented with
pale-blue and delicate rose-tints, which blend so del-
icately in that old painter's pictures ; and a dress of
graystuff slashed and trimmed with bands of violet ;
dainty little high-heeled, thick-soled boots; gauntlets
of buck-skin with tassels ; and thus jauntily arrayed,
you wouldn't believe how -lovely she was., She quite
upset poor Archie, who wasn't good for anything for
gazing at her. They were out in the boat one .day,
she pulling the oars, and he enjoying otium cum
dignitate-puffing his cigar and looking at the-rower.
"Kitty," said he, between the whiffs, "'let's go
and get our pictures taken together."
"Together," she replied, doubtfully;  I don't
know as that would be proper."
"Why not? brothers and sisters often sit that
way."
"Oh, yes; if I hada 'brother I could; but as I
haven't any, I'don't care about it."
Archie watched her little pout, looking askance at
the water, and admired afresh the rosycolor in' her
cheeks, and her curls floating about.
" You won't be my little sister, then?. I haven't
any, you know."
"-No, I will not; brothers take too.great liberties
-scolding and finding fault-I can't bear to be found
fault with; I had enough of that at school.

If

,-     h   r
'       I       '
,
:i  .

I -

'

't-,


0

44         PAUL AND. VIRGINIA.
"I wouldn't find fault, Kitty ; I have io talent of
discovery, and it would need a painstaking person-
to pick flaws out of perfection. Come, say 'yes' to
the picture ; it would please Aunt Elinor so much."
"'Why, if auntie wishes it, perhaps I might ; 1pt
in those double things one is sure to be ugly. I doh't
want to be the one, and you can't afford it."
"Thank you-; I shall try to look my best.",
"How I wish your hair would curl-it is so
straight' "
"I'll have it shaved, and then you won't notice the
terrible fault. Luckily, yours curls enough for two-so
we will give our pictures to Aunt Elinor to hang in
our parlor. Let's be taken in costume. .1 detest
those stiff things apropos to nothing. The operators
seem to have but one round of ideas : with a. book in
one hand, with a pillar on one side, or bolt upright,
and staring. Now we will be somebody in particu-
lar. We'll be shepherds, we'll be medieval, we'll be
Corydon and Phyllis. What do you say to that?"a
"Who are Corydon and Phyllis ?" asked'Kitty in-
nocently.:
Archie, vexed to lose what he considered a deli-
cately pointed allusion to their own future, replied
petulantly, " I thought everybody knew that ; haven't.
you read Milton?"
"Oh, yes," answered Kitty; "that is, some of
it; we used to parse out of ' Paradise Lost' at school-
horrid stuff."
You don't like poetry,.then ? "

PAUL AND VIRGINIA.2
Oh, yes, I like poetry well enough, but I don't
call that pokey reading poetry!"
"Indeed, what do you call it ? "
"I call it preaching done into feet."
"Master minds have thought well of the work,
however."
"I can't help it ; I haven't got a master-mind-I'm
a weaker vessel. Why not choose something nice,
say 'Paul and Virginia.'
" I never read 'Paul and Virginia,'" -replied
Archie, sheepishly; "don't know -who they are."
"Master minds-. have thought well of the work,
however;" echoed Kitty.
Archie had, a great mind to be -angry, but thought
better of it, and Miss.Walsingham, who highly ap-
proved the schetne, settled the point by proposing
Prince Almanazar and Lady Delight ;. and they got
down Brazen Gates, and _ after studying the story
carefully, they decided that as Christabel Goldsmith
had not dealt largely in dress-stuffs in her descrip-'
tion of her favorites, they might wear anything they
liked, so they-carried the distinguishing flowers.
Selecting a clear, sunny morning, Aunt Elinor
drove in to. Merry Bank, intending to superintend
the,,attitudes. Kitty drew close around her the shel-
tering watt-proof which hid her dress from the ob-
servation of the curious, of which class there are
always plenty in our . good village. In fact, it is a
chronic wonder to me from 'whence come the groups
of idlers which gather around all the -groceries, and


PA                               UL AND  VIRGINIA.

haunt the sidewalks ; and how they can afford the
tiiefor so much idleness in this work-a-day world.
Alighting before the great sign, " Photographic
rooms," emphasized by a -hand whose very fat fore-
finger points  uncompromisingly  upward;  they.
mounted the stairs and stood in the presence of a
loose-jointed, lanky youth, who looked 'a trifle aston-
ished when he surveyed Kitty's fantastic- attire.
" Doyou think you can give us a good picture?"
asked Aunt Elinor sharply. -
"I, rather expect I can ;- we do mostly.. I sot a
woman with a pair of twins standing this morning,
and she-said they looked like angels."
"We' don't want to look like angels," answered
Archie dryly, not especially pleased with the ,stare of
the red eyes upon Miss Kitty's loveliness. "Where's
your master ? "
"My master! I never seen him yet.; I never seen
your'n'neither, but I know jest how he looks-.-hoofs
and horns, and a tail; smells of brimstone."
Aunt. Elinor was vastly amused with the ready
change her nephew had got for his airs, and made
haste to resume the conversation,
"Don't be offended, my good fellow; it was but a
figure of speech. This gentleman has been sojourn-
ing for years among people Who feel the ,term no af-
front ; we simply wish to inquire for Mr Hathaway;-
will he be here this morning ? "
"No, ma'am, he most probably won't ; but it don't
make a mite. of difference : I can do your work just

(

as well as he can. I do take more than half the pic.-
tures in this establishment myself. I profess to be a
dab at the' business."
"Oh, if that is the case, we had better get to work.
This morning sun is too favorable to lose.
The lanky one was still more dumbfounded when
Archie came forth from the masculine robing-room,
in short velvet trousers, edged with lace, a' brigand
hat and long white plume, and a jaunty, close-fitting
jacket of sky blue. Miss Walsingham had costumes
enough to fit out a fancy-dress party in her old ward-
robes. Kitty was as much surprised as the others;
and  they both burst out laughing, which mirthful
jollity, together with their youth, beauty, and care-
less high-breeding, accustomed to ease and plenty,
neither'df which he had ever known, were especially
aggravating to the lanky one ; and he began throw-
ing the books' about, kicking the pillar, and boxing
the deaf ears of the stuffed squirrel who was accus-
tomed to do duty in. infant-sittings-(" Look-a-here,
baby! see! see ! . whew! whew ! hop, scamper-
there, now he.is going-to fly.! oh, watch him  "
The attention of the youthful candidates being thus
solicited)-to the imminent peril of his inside sawdust.
" You'd better go into t'other room, ma'am " said
he sourly to Miss Walsingham.  You'll make 'em
laff," as he-stalked gloomily.away to fetch the plates.
"Now, how shall we fix ourselves-?" asked Kitty,
enjoying the fun and striking a variety of fancy atti-
tudes.

Et       .'    _.          t            '

f..
fjE
F ;
,K r
t+ !
t!
a{j
.t.
T.
'}   .
_ta:5
y
iy  , ,
e x
;ftn  l
'
K
;z+
'tl
S
1A
fi
a
.i
x
S
t
.
F,
S
i'
J
Yi
K
fi
.t
°
F
T
.f
J
iy

..
,
F
r
r
d
s
: ' ,

,

246

PAUL -AND VIRGINIAS

247.


PAU AND VIRGINIA.

"I should lketo fix myself here," replied Archie,
dropping on one knee, and clasprig his hands in a
troubadour position.
"You have no warrant for that in the story,"spoke
up Kitty, blushing a little, and rather liking it too.
"You must keep to your part. Musn'the, auntie ? '
" I think it would be the death of that poor young
man inside if he were to discover you," said Aunt
Elinor.
"Do get up, please'; he's coming!" entreated
Kitty hurriedly.
"Puppy!" grumbled Archie, ho had conceived
the most violentaversion to the p or operator. "lHe
had better give his undivided attention to his busi-
ness, or I shall feel obliged to offer him a striking*
proof of my esteem."
After much posture-making, and divers arrange-
ments of the water-lilies so necessary to tricky
Johnny and the peerless Lady Delight; after sundry
tiltings up Kitty's chin with his damp and rather
dirty hand by the lanky one, who was chewing some-
thingf and smelled of mutton (he seemed ,taking his
breakfast by odd mouthfuls, as he could snatch it, in
some secret hole behind the blue screen, and his face
cleared'apace as his'stomach filled and he chewed the
cud with- relish,; perhaps after all it was over-work
which made him so crusty and glum), "You cross
one foot over t'other, the toe down so," said he to
Kitty, adjusting his own lean legs to illustrate the po-
sition. "And you straighten back a little,'-to
t  "  "  A/

Archie, who moved not the fraction- of a" hair.. "Well,
if you want to be took as crooked as a ram's horn, it
is immeticular to me- Now, I'm all ready," he con-
cluded, pulling his head out from under the black
cloth. "Look as pleasant as you can, and wink 'as
often as you please!"
Kitty tried her best, but it would come,; the water-
lilies nodded in her fingers, her lips parted, and an
uncontrollable gust of merriment burst forth.
"There, ma'am ! I told you you'd make 'em laff,"
expostulated . the lanky one, glowering on  Aunt'
Elinor, who had caught the contagion, and was join .
ing heartily; "you'll have to leave, or we shan't get a
picture all day."
"Oh! you. consider fme a subject of 'ethereal
mirth.' Well, I will retire, and take with me 'jest and
jocund jollity, quips, and cranks, and wilful wiles,
nods and becks, and wreathed smiles."
'And trip it lightly as you go, on the light, fantas-
tic toe,'" said Archie, springing forward, and waltz-
ing the stout lady out of the room.
"I wonder if these folks came out of a crazy house,"
grumbled lanky. "I never see such a packof lunie;
whenever you get through prancing round,I'nready
to try again. I've got an appointment with a min-
ister to-day. Now then, see ifFyou can look right
here, sir," sending a little bit of tin up on.a pole, aid
placing it at a convenient distance:
" But I'tl rather look here," replied Archie, turning
towards Kitty.
11*

"R" yi
J
All-
'z w
P''J
4 -
,i

.,         t y

PAUL AND VIR GINZA.

.48

249

R
r
X

"'   ,  ,

' J                         , _ 'r.   -
"i; . ,;
-                -         -
r    :          3    $

,
~        .-
_ _'  "


2PAUL AND WVIRGINIA.      g51

" I -can't take your eyes .so.  -
"I, don't think you could take my eye any way,"
answered Archie, insolently facing about, much dis-
pleased with the tone, and also the evident admira-
tion of the lanky one shown for his fair partner.
The operator bristled up, and made a feint of cour-
age, enough to- frighten simple Kitty; but eying
over the broad :shoulders and powerful fists, which
the young gentleman knew quite well how to use, he
changed his mind, and subsided into internal swearing.
It was a Work of patience. At each removal of
the plate to the secret hole, came a voice from the
depths, "both moved ; one moved," and.that, too,
when each felt sure of having been still to a rmnuscle ;
till Kitty got tired of standing on one foot, and
'wanted to give it up altogether, when Mr. Hathaway
appeared upon the scene, and brushing. aside the
lanky one, took the business into his own hands, and
having an artist's eye, as well as powers of execution,
quickness, adaptation, precision, and other traits
necessary to his profession, he soon gave them a pic-
ture which he pronounced a success. Aunt Elinor
knewthe gentleman wellkand liked him; she had
watched his toward course, his artist-struggles,.had
bought hisspictures, and given him a sitting for her
face in oils, andl while. they were waiting for the neg-
ative she entered into conversation with him, watch-
ing his dark, rathermelancholy face. with its soft,
black eyes, and.,thoughtful mouth, with interest in
what he was saying.

V

Sy
7
s

:250  -   -     PW UZ ..4ND  YIRGIIVI.4.

"To Rome ! " said she, "and leave this lucrative
business to study art ? "
"I dream of it-sometimes," he answered sadly,
"but I believe I shall never see Rome till: I look down
upon it from heaven."
. " When you study the celestial pictures, you will
fil your sodlso full of beauty, that old Rome will be
forgotten," answered the lady ; and while- she spoke
she turned over in her mind the feasibility"of dis-
patching this ardent art-lover to the land of his
dreams, and resolved to consult Archie: about it as
soon as they reached home. Aunt Elinor, with her
sympathetic woman's heart, knew well the ecstatic
delight of fulfilling the desires of people who are
worth the trouble ; and after summing up all the uses
of money, what investment pays so well ? " Now that
you are here," she concluded briskly, " I shall have~a
little ivory-type for myself. Take off that hat, child,
and smooth your curls. . I like my friends, as I know
them best. Now, .Mr. Hartaway, do your prettiest ;
I have provided a nice little sitter, and I expect per-
fection in the semblance."
"He'll have to. go out, sir," suggested the lanky
one, determined to have a last fling at Archie'; "he
makes 'em laff."-=
The first trial was a glorious success ; sweet, pure,
and lovely she looked at them. Kitty at Kitty's
prettiest and best.
9"I'll come privately, and carry that off," said


25.

PAUL AND VIRGINIA.

Archie; "it=is too, much='like the girl I found asleep
under the beech-tree-
"By the rushy-fringed bank
Where grow the willow and the osier dank,'
to be owned by any other person."
The lanky one overhearing, muttered:' You may
het your sweet life you don't! I'll have one, though,
and keep it in my room, and look at it just when I've
a mind to-; there now-.-"
"If the group proves good," said Miss Walsing-
ham in her ,prompt business manner, "I shall want
it finished in oils, and I yill leave it in my will to
one of you, mayhap to both,"'she ended in Kitty's
ear, at which the -conscious maid blushed red as a
rose, and said, " Novw, ahuntie ! how can you ?"
The lanky one coughed a rasping, barking cough,
which sounded like a growl, and shuffled off to the
dark hole, where he commenced splashing something
in water, and turning a wheel, which was like Ixion's.
to him, for'aught we can tell.,

j

('.

I

CHAPTER XVIII.

KITTY LEARNS HER CATECHISM.

UNTIE," said Archie one morning, when
he and Kitty came in to breakfast, after a
long gallop on the breezy ridge road, "this
little girl doesn't know her catechism: don't you
think she .ought to learn it directly?"
"If she likes, as a memory-trial; but as she recites
ten verses 'of the New Testament to me every even-
ing, I don't care any great about that musty old stuff.
She is getting'her creed straight from the Fountain-
head. I prefer Christ's say-so, to lany old church
dogma, myself."
"Why, auntie ! it is lucky the day of fagots and
stakes has gone by, 'or you would have a chance to
be sent to heaven in a smoke-wreath. I see I shall.
be obliged to prosecute this duty without your assist-

,r
a.

-

""

1
'
x


~,_                 s- ,
,1.
,
1
,         s

KITTY LEARNS HER CATEcHISM.

ance:.Now,Kitty, I'll give you a gaygold ring if
you will rcmit thewhole this week, beginning
who was thejfirst man?'"
"Ring ! I don't care for rings, only this one which
was mamma's [kissing her diamond]; they are
always slipping off into the wash-basin, and getting
lost'everywhere' I shan't study for rings."
' "What would you like, then ? name the treasure--
the half of my kingdom shall. be yours. I feel so
anxious to see your feet safely planted on the, Say-
brook platform."
"Where's that?" demanded Kitty innocently.
"-Here's a little heathen for you ! " exclaimed
Archie; "poor, neglected infant."
"Calling names isn't Christianity," retorted Kitty.
"Answered like a woman. I shall keep to the
text hereafter, 'what do ye lack ?' like a Scotch
pedler."
" I want to ride Dandy ! jur'np him over the five-
bar, where you 'went this morning ; he was- so mean,
auntie ! he leaped over, and made me wait till he
had opened the gate, before I could go through."
"Yes, you wanted to break your neck, and as it is
toshort to join again, -I objected, from motives of
economy."g
"Well, I won't learn the catechism unless you will
give me a ride on Dandy."
Shall I risk it, auntie ? "
"Why not? Kitty rides wel, and Dandy is a good
jrnper."

" Very well, I shift all responsibility, and you shall
try your skill just as soon.as you are perfect."
"" ut if1 I miss two questions," said-Kitty, turning
over the leaves of the yimer Archie presented heit;
" that used to be perfect at school."
"I'll make it one. I don't want, to be -a hard
master," replied Archie blandly.
" I'll be ready by four o'clock, and have the ride
this evening."
" At blushing shut of day-.agreed."
All the morning Kitty studied the questions, and
conned over the answers; and flushed with triumph
she presented her book to the young catechist before
the hall clock struck four. " I've got 'them all," said
she.
"Very well, we'lr'see-who was the first man?"
" Adam."
"Who killed Cain?"
" Abel."
" One miss! take your book and study" (very
severely).
" You' shan't count that, Archie ; you didn't ask
the question right ; it is who was the first murderer?"
"So it is--.well, I will excuse that failure-; now who
was the strongest man ;" and so. on : they advanced'
swimmingly, till Archie propounded the query,
"Who, was the last man-?"
".Now you are too bad to skip about so, and.ask
the very one I didn't learn;" said Kitty, quite cast
down and discouraged.

KITTY LEARNS HER CATEcHISM

z55

-. 54

a, .

,I


KITTY LEARNS HER CATECHISM.

A hearty laugh from Aunt Elinor set the faithful
pupil thinking.  "There isn't any last man," ex-
claimed she, clapping her hands gleefully, "and I'll
have my ride on.Danday."
"I can convince you that you are, mistaken," re-
plied Archie, fetching a-volume of Campbellfrom the
library.  "I've "got the ipse (dixit of a fellow who
pretends to know.,
'I saw a vision in my sleep
That gave my spirit strength to sweep
Adown the vale of time.
I saw the last of human mould
That shall creation's death behold,
As Adam saw its prime.'"
The young man finished the poem, to which Kitty
listened with fixed attention.
"There I Miss Kitty," asked he, shutting the
book ; " what do you think of that ?-"
" It makes me creep a little," said Kitty, shiver-
ing; "but I like it ; it sounds like a grand anthem-
like solemn church music-it is like a gorgeous paint-
ing. I'd rather learn that than your stupid old cate-
chism."
"Well, I give up ! " exclaimed Archie. " I ex-
pected you would class it with Milton as 'horrid
stuff.'"
" You can't sometimes almost always tell these
young maidens' thoughts, thou man. Elegance for-
give the. use of your own boyish slang,". saidAunt
Elinor, laughing and patting Kitty's cheek.  "They

don't admire and reject by rule and pummet, but are
quite apt to be a law unto themselves. Go and get
ready for your ride, darling ; enjoy the pleasure you
have earned. And you, Archie, see if you can be as
careful a guardian as you are accurate a theologian."

KNs

j

9

I

APITT Y LEARNS ,HER. CA TEC.II $IW.

257

256.

0


I

CHAPTER XIX.
AUNT ELINOR'S DISAPPOINTMENT.

ERHAPS the pleasantest times this couple
enjoyed were the long talks over the career.
Mr. Laurie was to make ; a something great
glorious, in which they had joint interest; which
amwas discussed in all its bearings, and admired in the
prophetic gloty of its magnificent results.  Miss
Walsingham took infinite comfort, watching, petting,
lecturing, and helping. She made them work, too,
doing her best to interest her nephew in the manage-
ment and capabilities of her Quince Bush; and in-
sisted that he should assume direction of her work-
people; and she plied him early and late with en-
treaties to remain and superintend the property-
making that his business.
"It will all be yours, Archie," she said. "You
should look after your own. What more noble and

I,

AUNT ELINOR'S DISAPPOINTMENT.      259
useful life than dwelling onyour owi acres, and
making the people about you happy?
"But, -dearest auntie, you raised me for a lawyer;
I have always meant to be one. I mean to show the
world that rara avis-an honest barrister. I am just
ready to. practise ; I want to'make a career. I am
determined'to test my powers, and prove what there
is in me. I-want to earn my living in the sphere to
which you have educated_ me. - I must be acknowl-
edged a man among men, before I ask a woman to
take and trust me for life."
a Miss Walsingham met an unexpected rebuff; for,
on confiding her. troubles to Kitty, that .little maid
blushingly, but quite firmly, owned that "she agreed
with Archie ; she thought he was just right."  So
good Aunt Elinor was obliged to give in at last,
withmany sighs over her lonely home, where she
dreaded to miss the presence of the gay young peo-
ple at her table, so splendid and solitary, that even
her cat was an acceptable companion, and she re-
solved to keep Kitty just as long as she could.


kITTY'S FIRST OFFER.      6

CHAPTER XX.        °
KITTY'S FIRST OFFER.
AMBLING together one evening beneath the
golden harvest moon, chatting and enjoying
themselves after their usual fashion, Archie
broke out suddenly-
" Kitty, I've had an offer."
"An offer !" replied Kitty, quite mystified.
"Yes, and 'I want your advice ; shall I or shall I
not pounce upon it?-"
" I would do just as I thought best, Archie."
"You provoking little bo-peep! why don't you ask
me some questions?"
Oh, I can wait;' if you have anything to tell, I
shall get it fast enough."
I have something to tell, Kitty. Iam about'to
leave you."
"Leave me !" echoed Kitty, faintly.
"Ah! I thought I could surprise you. I hate to

go. I hate to disoblige Aunt Elinor. I hate to in-
terrupt our pleasant life, like a dream of Arcadia;
but I don't feel like abandoning my life's design.
The career must be made ! Such an excellent op-,
portunity offers now, that I can't think it right to
give it the go-by. You will miss me, won't you,
Kitty? We've had nice timeshaven't we ? I must
speak this evening to Aunt Elinor."
After waiting a little while in a silence which Kitty
could not find voice to break, Archie said, " Do-you
know, Kitty, I almost wish I was rich."
"Why so, Archie ? " she answered softly.
"Because if I had money of-my own we might get
married right away, and make the career together af-
terward. Wouldn't that be pleasant? I declare I
am sorely tempted to give in to my aunt's wishes,
and settle down and let the old career go. hang !
You would take me without any fame, wouldn't you ?
Esquire Laurie doesn't sound much better than Mis-
ter, does it?"
"You are taking a great deal for granted, Mr.
Archie Laurie. You seem quite sure of me. You
needn't be, for I am not at all sure of myself."
" Oh, yes, you are. I beg pardon ; you must be;
because I am Prince Almanazar and you are Lady
Delight. You taught me that with your  own sweet
lips ; and are not we two hanging in one frame in
auntie's parlor ? "
"But Prince: Almanazar had to do brave and noble
deeds ; batter at the Brazen Gates and prove well his


KITTY'S FIRST OFFER.

XITTY'S FIRST .OFFER.

manhood, before he won his love for his," said Kitty
with kindling face.
Thank you, little preacher; you recall me to my-
self.. I also must fall to work and lose no time. I
must make a hammer of the law, and strike with might.
and main good,, strong, lusty, honest blows for. my
water-lily. I shall be successful, of course, and when
I have made all things ready to occupy the castle,
may I come and takesweet Kitty home ?,"
Dropping the gay, bantering tone he had been
using, he looked seriously down into her face. The
swift blushes chased each other over her cheeks, and
her true eyes dropped beneath his earnest look. Al-
though he felt quite sure of her, he wished ;to hear
hervoice and begged for a word, which she gave him.
"Archie, I love you dearly. I will be ready when-.
ever you are ready to take me."
The harvest moon looked smilingly down upon
this youthful pair, and the whispering trees told each
other how good and fair was she, and how honest
and trusty was her lover..
But," said Kitty, "what if papa should not ap-
prove ?  You must find that out first. I am only.
sixteen, you know, A silly, little wife I'll be, I am
afraid. I must beg Carlotta to teach me housekeep-
ing.'
+I shall try to forgive your extreme youth, especi--
ally as I'm only twenty ,myself.. We don't want gray
heads .on green shoulders. I expect we shall make
no end of mistakes. I know I shall. I'm always,

262

_ _
i              f  ,        "'                          ''
'i

.        I

,l

263

diving into blunders. I shall look to you to be very
loving and forgiving, and we shall come all right after
a while. As to the father---I have na fears now that
I am sure of your heart."
" You were rather sure of that all the while,I think,
considering how modest you are."
"I am making love in my character of Prince, you
understand.
" Oh, yes;, I see ! Well, I accept you in the
character of Lady Delight."
"My darling ! my darling! -Don't, mind Kitty;
don't run off. I won't, do so any more. You shall
see how I will work. I am so proud of your love
and your goodness."
" Archie, I want to ask you one question. Sup-
pose you should meet some fine woman, handsome,
and learned, and witty-"-I am not any of those. I am
only simple Kitty. Do you think she could coax away
your heart from me, and make you forget your love,?
When you are out in the world you will see hosts of
them, and they will all wish to have you."
" Now, Kitty-but I won't swear. Oaths are mere
words. The Lauries are true men. I am a Laurie."
"Thank you, Archie. I feel sure of you, because
I love you. I don't know why I should have asked
you such a question. - Just to show you how silly I
can be,.I suppose."
" I might return your compliment, Miss Clayton,
but I refrain. Ali ! how nice this is! I don't see
how people live who are not engaged."

,,
o
,,   _


MEETING ANGELS UNA WARES.

CHAPTER XXI.
MEETING ANGELS UNAWARES.

T was a brilliant morning when Archie Laurie
walked into the law office in Toptown (the
county seat, where we have our court-house,
jail, insane-retreat, poor-house, and all sorts of civi-
lizative conveniences), which was to'be the theatre of
his bold attempts to achieve greatness.  It was a
brilliant morning,and his pulse-beats kept joyous
time to his jubilant mood. Blessed with high health
and an untouched constitution his young blood ran
sparkling through his veins like     agne wine.
He.st epped off'his walk of five miles from t e team-
boat landing, like an athlete in full training. He. ad
written to Kitty, in his' cramped, little-state-roo,
annoIncing his arrival in a strain of exhilarated glad-
ness, which kept her singing for very joy for days
afterward. A little time of steady attention to his

new business sufficed to put him au courant in its
detail. The position was an excellent one. The old-
est house in town had offered him a partnership,
and with diligence and industry his much-talked-of
" career " was sure to be achieved. . He settled ab-
sorbedly to his work. Richard Roe and John Doe
with their never-ending disputes could not disgust
him. He read-voraciously, and wrote reams upon
reams of dry cases, as though it were mere pastime.
In short, he battered away at the Brazen Gates with
sounding blows which made them reel again.
Alas ! for the chances and changes in this ever-
whirling world. Man proposes, but it seems as if the
disposing came from down below, sometimes ; at any
rate, an evil spirit presented herself in the'garb of an
angel of light. Strolling one evening into the long
dining-room of the hotel where he boarded, he sat
down to table, and had just finished helping himself
to a huge saucer of late peaches, and was carefully
sifting them with sugar, thinking about a law-suit of
which he was writing up the evidence, when, with a
silken rustle, and a faint breath of heliotrope floating
about her, Mrs. Nickson, nee Brandon, seated herself
at his elbow. She was alone, and looking radiantly
beautiful. Her steely eyes glimmered when they
lighted upon her neighbor, who greeted her with
pleased eagerness.  Had he not met her on that
blissful occasion-that rapturous evening, every re-
membrance of which was thrice blessed, now that he
was separated from the only girl to speak of, in the
12

,4

4

265

:'

-  ,


yj-
s-
a1

MEETING ANGELS  UNAWARES.

Brandon  for sweepstakes.
chosen set, he was leading

Surrounded by
a very fast life.

266      MEETING ANGELS UNA WARES.       ,
world ? They soon sailed.into pleasant seas of talk:
of the grand party, the wedding, Merry Bank peo-
ple, the Red Cottageites ; and, tea over, what more
natural than that he should accompany the handsome,
charming lady, the brilliant. causeure, who was in
some sort an old acquaintance-almost a friend--
into the parlor, where, to say truth, he spent the en-
tire evening listening to her sparkling conversation ;
perhaps unconsciously admiring and wondering at
her rare beauty-which was set in array for his bene-
fit. Of ,course Mrs., Nickson sang. Archie didn't
consider himself a great enthusiast in music, but
those songs thrilled through his soul.  He begged
for one  more, and   one more, long   after all
loungers had deserted the parlor, and they two
were left alone. He thought a dozen times about
going, but she had a little more to say, and .she
looked so handsome saying it, that he forgot the
flight of time in listening, and his watch showed him
the small hours before he undid its guard-chain and
adjusted its key for the winding ; and her face was
before him; her entertaining talk, her musical voice
lingered about his thoughts till the image of death
locked fast his senses. Poor little Kitty went to
sleep that night with- the joyous, loving letter from
her betrothed under her white pillow, first praying a
prayer for him, and she slept a sweet and dreamless
slumber.
Mrs. Nickson's jockey husband had gone to the
Brooklyn races, where he had entered the Belle

marriage had no controlling.. power over him-they
say reformed rakes make the best husbands;
don't you believe it, girls ; it can't be- so ; mended
china isn't so good as unbroken china ; mended
manners are not so trustworthy as life-long purity.
But John Nickson was not reformed-had no idea of
being-and his handsome, wife did not in the least
trouble herself about his morals, so long as he gave
her plenty of banknotes. The Folly was undergo-
ing a thorough burnishing before it could receive its
splendid mistress, who meant to have the full value-
of her " most filthy bargain " in everything that money
could buy ; and here she was at the hotel, with noth-
ing in hand, till the banker's return. Only a few
weeks married, and she had hours of hearty disgust
with her wedded life-and she bitterly regretted
what she was now disposed to consider over-haste in
her decision ; and she vainly wished that she had
stayed for one more chance. The time had already
gone by when she was at the least pains to conceal
how disgusting was her husband to her; how abhor-
rent his habits. All the horse-talk to which she afore-
time so llandjy listened was received with cold
shoulders and open sneers. His chosen companions
she would none of, and they dared not come into
her presence. She. had already proved, to her ex-
treme surprise, that there could be weariness and
ennui in spending money. The golden apple she

I,

267
his
His

II' _

,


jri..    c          _
f                         '
'        L
~          S
{
3
J
t
f
R !' i
r rte.
-             F
1
i
4

had plucked so eagerly was turning to ashes in her
hand, and   a whole, long life yet before her.
Of course, she willingly seized upon Archie Laurie
for occupation, and he, poor fellow,' with his' high
trust in woman, had not the ghost of a chance to
resist her wiles. A few adroit conversations made
her perfectly au fait as to the state of his heart.
He easily confided all his plans, and she led him on
and drew him out by the beautiful sympathy she
manifested, and the fervent praises of" dear, sweet
Kitty."
The handsome plotter remembered with bitter re-
sentment every event of the great party where she
had suffered such unbearable mortifications, though
she had so gushingly gone over its delights with him
on the first evening of their meeting ; and shere-'
solved to captivate this young fellow-half for the
pleasure of resuming her favorite amusement, which
she called "flirting," and partly 'to punish Kitty
Clayton for everything she had suffered while in that
innocent maid's society. She busied herself making
natural opportunities to meet Archie, and to bring
him to her side. She flattered him by showing in-
tense interest in his business, his plans, his future.
While she praised Kitty, she thrust her .own beauties
and graces upon his attention, so that he'could not
help being impressed with them. She set off her at-
tractions by brilliant toilettes. She smiled her ador-
able smiles, and breathed out her perfumed breath in
pretty sighs, while-she bewailed the lottery of life.

"So many draw blanks,'" she said, and shook her
head with its floating curls, and sang to him a plain-
tive song which thrilled to his heart's core. She
talked trippingly-laughing threaded melody, while
he held her bright-colored worsteds. He could, not
help observing her round arms and charming dimples,
as she supplely bent hither and thither in the wind-
ing. She paraded her graces, practised the allure-
ments it had been her life-work to make perfect, and
she threw a cruel glamour over the lad before he knew
that he'was in danger. She rejoiced wickedly when
she saw how the image of sweet Kitty was obscured
in her gorgeous .presence.  No respect for herself
r held her in check. She had never followed her avo-
cation with richer zest or fuller enjoyment. It was
more than flirting now ; it was also revenge, and she
gloried in the -'sorrow she was brewing for Kitty,
whom she hated in exact proportion to the favors she
had received from her hands.
As for Archie Laurie, his latter years had .been
passed among his own sex, engrossed in his studies,
his sports, his travels-which had left him neither
time nor opportunities to study women. Thus put-
ting a wide gap between his school-boy life at Merry
Bank, when, girls were -only girls and nothing more,
and now, when womeri were mostly angels without
wings.
Every hour the infatuated youth could command,
he passed by the side of the Married Belle. Every
thought was claimed by her, without any design to

8 MEETING ANGELS UNAWARES.

MEETING ANGELS UNAWARES,

268

269

.  -


270

MEETING ANGELS (YNA WARES.

7

' ME E TING ANGELS UNA WARES.

271

be false to his love. She had slid insensibly into the
background, out of sight ; lie nearly forgot to write
to her. In fact, Mrs. Nickson did not give him time.
One evening she came upon him reading Chatterton.
He laid down the volume to converse with her ; in
fact, hehad only been beguiling the tedium of wait-
ing for her appearance. She did not ask him-what
occupied him, but took an opportunity to steal a
glance at the title, and the next morning she rose
early and fetched the works of "the marvellous boy,
the sleepless soul that perished in his pride."-and at
their -next sitting she adroitly led the talk toward
him, and showed herself so thoroughly conversant
with his stormy life and its strange work, that Archie
was impressed with her erudition, and paid her many
compliments upon acquirements not common among
women, and when she repeated the whole hymn be-
ginring "Almighty Framer of the skies," so melo-
diously and with such true devotion, he could have
knelt at her feet. If Belle had taken as much trouble
to minister to the tastes and-enjoyments of her hus-
band, as she did to study and fascinate this youth,
she might have lived comfortably 'with him, -and
perhaps have kindled within him some new desires
after home pleasures, some-notions-of refinement and
manliness.  I say, perhaps, but she had no such
leaning-no such intention.
Things had'been going on thus for weeks, when
one evening after tea Archie was sitting on the bal-
cony of his hotel enjoying his segar and the autumnal

,{    -

coloring on the distant woods. He was alone for a
wonder;- Mrs. Nickson was shopping. , He pulled -
out his handkerchief, and with it came a tiny glove,
smelling of heliotrope. He had stolen it from the
Married Belle the evening before, on their return from
a concert, at which time she had been bewilderingly
bewitching. The faint perfume reminded him of 'her
in her floating robes-of her sweeping curls, her won-
derful eyes, rosy mouth, sharp white teeth, and beau-
tiful dimples; of her, leaning on his . arm,- walking
with easy, springing grace by his side home through
the quiet street ; of her sitting at the piano-of the
air she had warbled in his'charmed ears. The liquid
melody of her glorious v ice still lingered about him
like enchantment ; unc nsciously he hummed the-
words of her song :
."In earth or air, a thing so fair,
I have not seen as thee."
A servant approached. and handed him  a small
package.
"By express, sir ; fifty cents."
Archie took it, paid the charge, and after turning
it over in-his hands a moment, as everybody does a
bundle or a letter, for some unexplained reason, he
opened it, with his cigar in the corner of his mouth and
his head much on'one side, to shirk the smoke which
wreathed about his half-shut eyes, not greatly inter-
ested in what he was doing, and still dreaming vaguely
of the glea ing glances. A little;ivory picture met


MEETING ANGELS UNAWARES.

MEETING ANGELS UNAWARES.

his gaze when the last wrapping was removed. He
dropped it from his hands, appalled and conscience-.
stricken. The words of the enchantress' song died
on his lips. "My God !" he exclaimed. "Can
this be Archie -aurie ?"
It was nothing frightful, however, that fixed his
look, only a sweet, pure, little, childish face, shaded
by soft curls and lighted by loving, trustful eyes.
He turned sick and. cold. Well, he had to face a very
unpleasant verity : here was a good young fellow, who
had always lived on the best terms with himself, ac-
customed to feel infinite respect and complaisance for
his manhood, as he acknowledged it, rather fallen away
from  the narrow path of rectitude ; rather slipped
loose from candid honor; he who had so loftily denied
all possibility of change or forgetfulness when asked a
simple question by a simple girl, speaking in proud
haste and assured certainty, was suddenly brought up
with a round turn by a little picture that he was
obliged to lift again and hold in his hand, and which
he could not take his eyes off of, and couldn't look at
without blushing.  Kitty Clayton, in her precious
youth, gentle, winning, tender, leaning on his breast
under the yellow harvest moon, came back into his.
thoughts, stole back softly,: where she had a right to
be : all her quaint prettiness and fresh innocence was
there. Her lovely presence care once again, flutter--
ing and fearful, into his soul. He dashed down the
perfumed glove, softly hid away the picture, and cov-
cred his face with his hands.

Some persons were talking together in coarse tones
within the tree-shaded nook below him, where they
were lounging and smoking in arm-chairs.
"I say, Knox, what a luscious piece of flesh old
Nick has got for a mate this time! she beats the
-others by a long stride."
"He ought to be a judge of the article. By hokey!
he's had experience enough among the fillies."
"I'll bet on this one against the field, she won't
hang herself or cut her throat, as t'others did. I re-
member the night he first seen her; 'twas to a fair;
he left a fiver in the box on her table for a cup of
coffee he drank :. he was just mad to wait then and
see her again. I didn't think the cards would ever
turn .up such a trick as they did, though ; she's a
match for the devil in his brimstone clothes, any day
in the week."
"Oh ! not so bad as that, you know. I call her a
confounded fine. woman ; you mustn't lash out be-
cause she turned- the cold shoulder on you ; haw !
hai! They will do that sort of thing, you know;
those high-strung ones are devilish apt to snap, at a
raw hand."
"Blast her shoulders ! I hate her ; she told me
with her nose in the air that she did not wish to en-
tertain any of Mr. Nickson's jockey associates. She
wasn't- fond of stable odors, and I'm blessed. if the
impudent jade didn't put her handkerchief to her
nose and-turn her back upon me. By Judas ! she'll
'come down a peg yet; old Nick is betting like thun-

0

"e

273

272


_jy

274

MfEETING ANGELS U/NA WARES.

der; and I'm just the fellow that won't say 'whoa.'
Let him spin.; silks and satins look fine on my.hand-
some dame but I should like to see how rags would
become her."
"Splitting fun to watch what a fool she is making
of that young lawyer. It is as good as a play the
way she leads him by the nose, like a tame bear.
Golly ! wouldn't I like to be round when old Nick
gets wind of Ijer goings on."
"Oh! he knows all about her. I was at Newport
when they was, and he was as proud as a peacock of
his new bargain; didn't she dress, though ! There
wasn't a woman there that could hold a candle to her,
and she flirted day in and day out, riding here, driv-
ing there, with a train of men around her as long as
a flock of wild geese."
" I don't care nothing about that. I tell you,
Knox, she'd better mind her eye; if Nick gets down
on anybody, they had as good say their prayers."
Poor Archie ! fallen from his high estate to be a
byword and 'a laughing-stock to 'keys and gam-
blers!
A handsome carriage and pair drew up before the
hotel. The tall coachman pulled' in his high-step-
ping-bays with a jerk, to the admiration of the crowd
of smokers and loungers. The Married Belle sat in her
purple-lined phaeton, in perfect costume, her blonde
curls floating beneath a jaunty hat, whose long white,
plume covered her shoulder ; her velvet basque fitted
perfectly her beautiful figure, and a certain air of con-

MEETING ANGELS UNAWARES.

275

fident triumph showed in her graceful pose. When
she caught sight of the foolish lad she had spent so
many enchantments to make wretched, she smiled at
the bowed head and exulted. "lHe is in a fit of ten-
der musing, of which Iam the sun and glory; " so she
thought as she spoke to her coachman.
' "Alphonse, you may give the reins to Mr. Laurie ;
he is.fond of driving my horses. You must get new
rosettes for this harness to-morrow, and a fresh pair of
lines. I will have nothing pass or dingy about my
turn-out."
Alphonse swung his legs to the ground and stood
ready to resign his charge, but he: listened to the
orders of his handsome mistress with a careless, inso-
lent indifference, which showed that he did not like
her service. The men in the arm-chairs were weigh-
ing her, add boldly staring-she, with her haughty
disregard of.those beneath her in the social scale, en-
tirely ignored their existence, and called out to Archie
in her subdued, musical voice, as if they had not been
within hearing:
"Come, Mr. Laurie ! just the time for a drive; be
quick, please, the bays are so impatient ; " and she
nodded and smiled as she gathered up her rich robes
to give him room beside her.
Yesterday the boldness of the -action might have
passed for gushing simplicity, and he would have ac-
cepted. the invitation so unblushingly offered, and
have heartily enjoyed managing the spirited steeds,
and listening to the brilliant conversation of the mag,


276     MEETING ANGELS UNA WARES.

nificent woman beside him, as he had done often and
often before; but to-day ! her spell was broken: with
a sudden waking as from a dream, he beheld her as
she was,. a bold, unscrupulous woman, obstinately
seeking her own pleasure in open defiance of all right
and honor, and he shrank from her with loathing.
The handsome plotter felt instantly that her prey
had slipped out of her net. She saw it in his averted,
unsmiling face, herd it in his changed tones, even
before he had finished putting his refusal into words;
but she sat an instant looking at him with Geraldine
eyes, and the Scripture-reading in the old Red Cot..
tage sounded in her ears like a sentence of condem-
nation.
"Though thou clothest thyself with crimson,
though thou deckest thee with ornaments of gold,
though thou tentest thy face with painting, in vain shalt
thou make thyself fair. Thy lovers will despise thee.
And thou saidst, I shall be a lady forever., For thou
hast trusted-in thy wickedness; thou hast said, None
seeth me. Therefore shall evil come upon thee, and
desolation shall come upon thee suddenly."
Archie had turned from   her and disappeared
through the long window before a suppressed "haw!
haw!" from the jockeys and gamblers in the arm-
chairs brought her back from the unpleasant, profit-
less past, home to the doleful, unsatisfactory present,
and a queer: look in the eyes of her showy coachman
gave it force and fire, proving how keenly he appre-
ciated and, enjoyed his mistress' position.

MEETING ANGELS UNA WARES.        277
It was a terrible glance that Belle gave the man.
"All was blight; Lamia, no longer fair, sat there, a
deadly white."  Her pale lips hardly- seemed to form
the words of her order,:and the glitter of her sharp
teeth through the livid cleft was uncanny enough to
make you turn chilly.
"Drive on, fool. Are you taking root, that- you
cannot leave- the place ? Do you hear me ? drive
on."
" Where, ma'am ? "
"To the lake, to the glen, to the church-yard."
"Yes, ma'am," replied Alphonse, and mutteringly
added: "Post to the devil everywheres."

r   *                       0

.


Fll

ilk

CHAPTER XXII.
BASSWOOD VERSUS HICKORY.
S for Mr. Archie Laurie, he walked rapidly
down toward his officein that most unenvia-
ble of all states for a noble-minded man, proud
of his strength, when he is forced to. feel himself
weighed in the balance and found wanting. He
blushed all alone when he reviewed the miserable in-
fatuation of the past weeks. "Paugh!" he exclaimed,
trying to twist himself away from his thoughts ; "how
can a man be such a dishonest fool?"  He tried hard
walking, and made a circuit of a couple of miles, but
with the pleasant persistence^ that style of reflections
are sure to excite; they pursued him like avenging
furies.
At the door-of the office his senior met him in an
angry bustle: "What the deuce kept you so long to-
night, Laurie ? of all nights in the year; you're fooling

"    Vii,,                  ,    i       ,     \   Jti'.     .  .".,        "t '"  .?         ti       .
r

BASSWOOD VERSUS HICkORY.

279

away too much of your time, my boy ; it won't do.
You'll have to chop short round or there'll be a fuss
in the family. I don't-mince matters, and I tell you it
won't do, and I mean it."
"You shall not have occasion to say that to me
again, Mr. Bradbu'ry," replied Archie, in still excite-
ment. "I intend to be all business hereafter."
" Humph," ejaculated the old lawyer, tilting up his
glasses and curiously eying the young man. "All
business, hey ? well, let me tell you, my young friend,
the office is a safe place for you, but I've got a'safer;
you must post directly off amongst the lumbermen;
old Basswood-has sent for me to come and take testi-
mony in his great saw-mill case, 'Basswood versus
Hickory,' and the very best thing I can do for you is"
to send you up immediately."
"Thank you, Mr. Bradbury,''replied Archie, flush-
ing under the clear penetrating eyes which were read-
ing him, ".I should like nothing better."
"That's right, my lad. Fresh frontier life will
take the taste out of. your mouth ; help you to throw
off the yoke, hey ;'" he slapped poor Archie on the
shoulder: "I don't want my. office brought up to
notice in a 'crim. con.' case, in which my junior shall
figure. Don't say a word. I believe you are a-right-
minded lad ; but I'm -afraid you haven't cut your eye-
teeth yet. 'I, Wisdom, dwell with Prudence,' you
understand."
The - angry blood surged up through Archie's
heart, and tingled at his fingers' ends; he haughtily


'c
'
r
1.
t
Y:'
t
f
F
f_
}
,
f'
f*
;
r'
yo

BASSWOOD VERSUS HICKORYV.

'1

withdrew his shoulder from his mentor--his tormen-
tor ; and his first impulse was to knock' him down.
But the sickening feeling, that his folly had fastened
such suspicion on him, made him a mark 'for ,men's
wagging tongues, kept him silent, and he stood with
dropped eyes, looking and feeling intensely foolish.
"Come, come, my boy; don't break down under
it. You are not the first fine fellow by a many, who
has made a slide ; start again, that's all, and be sure
and keep the straight path next time. Pack up your
traps, and look sharp ; the cars leave in an hour;
your papers are all ready for you, and good luck at-
tend your fishing. There are wild folks amongw4e
woodsmen, and you will have to rough it ; b
do you good. There .is one thing about it ; the
precious few women up there, and, I will venture to
affirm that you won't find a married belle among
them."
With a good-natured chuckle, the old lawyer shook
Archie heartily by the hand, and left him to facilitate
his preparations for speedy departure. We too will
leave him to the tender mercies of the uncouth lum-
bermen and his own avenging reflections.

HEN   Belle returned from  her drive, she
went straight to her, room, and throwing
away her hat, she tore off her ornaments and
cast them aside, and pushing back her curls from her
burning cheeks, she sat down at the table and leaned
her face wearily in her clasped hands. Utter abhor-
rence of herself and her life oppressed her soul and
weighed her to the earth. It ,was one of those
avenging hours which will sometimes sweep'over the
most blunted and selfish natures, when the past looks
loathly and the future a dreary nothingness.
Her jewel-casket stood before her, and after a
while she opened it and fingered the rich gems it
contained-a part of her bargain. But they had -no
charm, and with a bitter, scornful laugh she pushed
them  away and bent again to her unwelcome
thoughts. During her solitary drive she had-.been

CHAPTER XXIII.
A PEAN OF TRIUMPH.

5F

280


4

282

A PEAN OF TRIUMPH.

regretting her past, purposeless, flirting, despicable,
cheating, heathen life? Oh no, not at all ; but her
over-haste in jumping into matrimony thus, losing
another opportunity to be added to the thousand and
one good chances she had pursued after; 'angry,
enraged that it was too late to have Archie Lauri9 for
her husband ; angry also that, from sorne unexplained
cause, he wished to sunder the chains she had taken
such pains to forge.             -3-
While she sat thus thinking her wicked, unwifely
thoughts, her, wedded lord entered her room. She
saw his hated figure reflected in the mirror before
her, but she did not move. A young, honest, trusty
face was in her mind, and she shuddered at the first
glimpse she caught of this degraded humanity. He
had been drinking, and his voice-was thick when he
addressed his lady wife:
"Mrs. Nichson, I've got home; I wish to speak
to you."
He steadied himself against the tall, carved bed-
post, and looked at her with drunken gravity out of
his bloodshot, sensual eyes.
" Do you hear, Mrs. Nickson ? I've got home. I
want to speak to you."
She turned about for an instant, and took into her
consciousness his coarse, hardened face, bloated and
red, his swaying figure, with his hands plunged deep
in his-pockets, and his tall hat (which was Knox's hat,
picked up at random, and vaguely appropriated, and
all too large for his bullet head) set tipsyly on one

A PEAN OF TRZIUMIP

283

side. She turned away with sick impatience.; even
the drunken man perceived the disgust in her face,
and it angered him.
"You are a devilish fine woman, Mrs. Nickson,"
he said, running all his words together: "devilish
fine; and I've spent a pool of money on you. Those
showy ones are always -'spensive. I'm too old a coon
to be fooled. I met Jim Knox coming up; he made
a joke and a deuced haw-haw about you and your
goings on with that stuck-up puppy of a Laurie. I
say you're a devilish fine woman, Mrs. Nickson ; but
that kind of thing won't go down. I've married you,
and I mean to keep you in order. I'll drive the bays
myself, hereafter; if Dolph won't serve your turn."
Belle never moved, nor gave the least sign of having
heard the drunken voice at her elbow-except a curl
of her haughty red lip. Her husband pulled out,
after some purposeless fumbling, a- handful of crum-
pled papers from his pocket, and threw them down
on: the table before her.
"I've paid some swinging long bills, but you shall
hold up now. Your namesake, curse her! has run
me behind, and I'm out of pocket, and you won't
waste any more on kickshaws; you've kept it up
pretty well since you. got hold of my purse-strings,
but, by Jove! you'll stop."
The beautiful wife sat as still as a statue ; the bob-
bing hand and the winking eyes, stupidly trying to be
stern and dignified, concerned her not at all. Her
silence enraged him; and he raised his voice:

p


A PEAN OF TRIUMPH            285

284         A PEAN OF TRIUMPH.

"Do you hear me, madam ?      Your lord and
master is speaking to you."
" Yes, I hear you ; I must be deaf indeed not to
hear such a roar as zyou are executing. It does
credit to your lungs; I could understand you better;
perhaps,'if your utterance was something clearer."
"Then why don't you answer when I talk? By
thunder ! my wife shall speak when I choose-; you
can chatter glib as a magpie, when you take a fancy ;
you'd better not stir me up, unless you want to see a
cloven foot.'
She turned her head with careless scorn. "You
will oblige me by leaving my apartment ; I can't talk
to a drunken man.".
" Can't you? hal ha! pretty good ; why, you hand-
some fool, you belong, to me ; I have bought and
paid for you ; your blue eyes and your round arms
and your dimples and all the beauties you were so
fond of showing off to me are mine / and hereafter
you will keep them for me. I'll have no stuck-up
young puppies dangling after my wife."
Your own life is so irreproachable !" she said
disdainfully..
"That s neither here nor there. I shan't ask any
woman's leave to do -as I please ; it's your business to
trot in the path I point out, and you'd better go easy
or it will be the worse for you. I've tamed a woman
before you."
b       oShe haughtily rose, and. pushed back her chair.
Words fail to express the superb insolence of her

manner. "Since you seem to fancy my apartments,
I will leave them to you. I will recommend you to
try to sleep off the brandy you are so odorous of;
when you are. less like a brute and more like a man,
perhaps I will listen to you."
He laughed savagely. "Sit down ! I tell you, sit
down. Your grand airsare fine, but they are out of
time just now ; keep them till.I want them."
She wheeled about and looked him'full in the face;
such a look ! such glittering eyes, such sharp white
teeth !
"If you could know," she said, in a steady, even
voice, which never lost its musical ring-'"if- you
could but be made to feel how I loathe and despise
you at your best, and how disgusting and abomina-
bly repulsive you are to me now, in your vile, drun-
kenness, you would not wish me to stay where every
sense recoils from your hated presence. I could tear
my heart out and trample on it when I look at the
vile wretch I must hear called my husband-"
Her speech was stopped suddenly, for beside him..
self, fired with rage by her taunts, her contempt, her
overbearing pride, which scornfully ignored him, he.
struck her, when she stood confronting him, and still
indignantly, provokingly. apart-such a cruel blow,
upon her creamy dimpled cheek, as left the prints of
all his horny fingers in livid marks upon the tender
flesh.
For one instant she was still, except a thrill of rage
which shivered -through, her ; her red lips parted in a


286         A PEAN OF TRIUMP.

smile ; the devil within her intensified her ferocious,
savage beauty'; with one undulating motion she
darted toward him, and with a blow of her clenched
fist she knocked the big hat down over his face, and
catching off her long crimson scaif, she wound it
round and round his arms, plunged helplessly into
his pockets, and drew it fast with all the strength of
her quivering fingers. Almost before the mocking
laugh had died from his lips he was bound as firmly
to the bedstead-as ever prisoner to the stake. Then
taking a costly cashmere long-shawl, one of her hus-
band's gifts in the first pride of possession, from the
chair where she had carelessly tossed it, when she
came in from her drive, she deliberately wound it
about him from chin to heel, kneeling before him,
and making it firm and sure ; and he stood swathed
like a mummy. Then seizing his hat in 'her two hands
she dragged it ruthlessly off, regarding no whit his
long nose, which suffered cruelly in the transit ; she
placed it at his feet on the floor, then stepping back-.
ward and spreading her voluminous skirts of rustling
silk, she performed an elaborate curtesy.
"Perhaps my noble lord and master will think
twice the next time between the impulse and the
blow; I crave leave to retire and bathe my wounded
cheek. I kiss my hand to you. May your shadow
never be less ! In fact it couldn't well be, except
you were shrouded, for your coffin."
Turning with her serpentine glide, she floated eas-
ily out of the room, leaving the door open, and sa ed

A PAAN Ox TRIVMPZ.
down the wide staircase ; her white shoulders thrown
back, and her superb head haughtily erect, with a
desperate, wicked, regal grace; soon the full tones of
her splendid voice swelled out rich and clear from
the. parlor below, where stood the concert grand'
piano, and her skilful fingers played a jubilant aca,
companiment to her pean of triumph. Poor Nickson,
left alone, gave vent to his feelings in curses. not
loud but deep, and writhed in futile efforts to free
himself from his inglorious bonds; but. he could not
move a finger. The partner of his joys and sharer
of his sorrows had done her work too well. He was .
a helpless prisoner, and wad fain to squeal for help;
the ties of love began to be painful; so excruciating,
in fact, that the agony quite sobered him.. His chum
and fellow jockey, Knox, happened to be passing in
the hall, and hearing an odd noise, peeped in at the
door, to see, as he said, "what's the row." Discover-
ing his comrade in such distressful plight, wriggling
his head from side to side, goggling his eyes, and
gurgling strange oaths, the sight seemed so fraught
with mirth, that heedless of his .short-breathed en-
treaties for help, he staggered and reeled and shouted
and stamped in a frenzy of laughter.
"Poor old Nick," he wheezily exclaimed as soon as
he could find breath. . " He is turned into a mummy,
by the everlasting hokey! real Egyptian ; beats
Barnum  all hollow.  Say, didst thou walk the
streets three thousand years ago ? thou hast a tongue,
mummy; let us hear its tune!"

'I

fl

f


A PEAN OF TRIUMPH-

A PEAN OF TRIUMPH.

"Come, just quit that, and unwind these cursed
things," gasped the victim; "don't you see I am
suffering tortures, you infernal Guinea-pig ."
Fair and soft, Jacky Frippon; fair and soft. If
you call names, I leave you to choke, or get out as
you can. You must promise me an extra thousand
before I go to work ; my services are worth double
the money ; but I'll do the job cheap; say a thou-
sand."
Not a dime ! you've had your living out of me
long enough; you're all the while begging; not a
dime."
"Oh, very well; just as you please ; I rather like
this; quite an entertainment. Ah ! madam's shawl:
that explains, a little matrimonial scene ; Cupid among
the roses; haw! hawI!"
The eyes-of the men met, and the hilarious laugher
felt that perhaps it was as well that his friend's hands
were not free that instant and armed ,with a knife.
"Make it a thousand, Nickey, and I'll unwind the
mummy.
The poor sufferer stood it as long as humanity
_=      .might, but he came to Esau's state of mind at last,
and promised the money ; and- then Knox quite
leisurely undid his bonds, and he did not tarry long
in the society of his chum after his, release. As soon
as he had let one arm free, he got his money, and
took good care to give the scarf an extra twist on the
other, while the enfranchised hand counted out the
bills; and he quite plumed himself upon his modera-

tion in not asking for more ; but as his silence was
not bought, he made such a tale out of the scene,
and told it with so rich action among his confreres,
that the banker and he came -to blows about it one
night at a drinking-match, which gave them each
black eyes and generally smashed-up countenances;
and the deep hatred bred between them blossomed
into such fruit as bears murder in its core.

13

',I

288

289


LORD FEIGNING'S DAUGHTER-    291

CHAPTER XXIV.
LORD FEIGNING'S DAUGHTER.
ALF an hour had not elapsed since her scene
upstairs, and Belle's song was still unfinished,
when an elderly man, a little stooping in the
shoulders and somewhat bald, whose face showed
the wrinkled yellow tinge common to dwellers be-
neath the burning tropical sun, entered the long
parlor and sat down on a distant chair, where he
could enjoy the'music as well as command a view of
the singer's face. A gleam of recognition shot from
his eyes, and he rose as soon as the jubilation was
ended, and approached the piano.
' "I believe I am speaking to Miss Brandon," said
he.
Belle knew him instantly. "And this is Mr. Clay-
ton," she replied, offering her hand ; "how is my
dear Kitty?"

I have not seen her yet; in fact, I am on my way
to Merry Bank now ; neither have I communicated
to my daughter my intention. to pay her a visit. It
was an impulsive start which projected me on 'my
northward-journey, with which, permit me to. say,
Miss Brandon had something to do. You perhaps
remember a picture which Kitty sent me, a most
speaking likeness! T must have known you any-
where. The accompanying letter was also very
pleasant. If my little girl had always been so frank,
I believe I should have been unable to resist her
pleading; and perhaps it would have been better for
me ; at any rate the successive visions which she
conjured before me, of youth, beauty, accomplish-
ments, and social joys, made my thankless life'
drearier by contrast, and at last k I resolved to pay
you all a visit, to try what my native'air would do
for me, endeavor to get out of my club-house rut,
and into the old channel of home influence."
The conversation, indefinitely _prolonged, made
Belle acquainted with several useful points.  Mr.
Clayton was a thoroughly refined and presentable
gentleman.
Mr. Clayton did not know she was married, was
not enlightened upon certain money transactions in
which Kitty was a sufferer ; his trip North was quite
as much to see her--Belle-as the simple chit at the
Red Cottage ; and while she sat listening and bril-
liantly talking, she revolved some plans in her fertile
brain which needed immediate execution. She was


LORD FEIGNING'S DA UGITER.  293

I

not one to let time waste between the projection and
completion of her schemes ; and as she ,stood before
the gentleman to say good-night she also offered her
hand with her most-confiding gushingness.
I am so glad you are here, Mr. Clayton; I want
a .friend. I feel sure none could be safer than Kitty's
papa. I see you do not precisely understand my
position. I cannot explain to-night ; it is too long a-
tale : but to-morrow, if you will permit me-"'
A beautiful gush of tears--'" Belle was- so lovely in*
tears "--finished her sentence, and she turned away in
graceful haste.
" Stop one moment ! I implore you, Miss Bran-
don."
"Not to-night, sir. I must not ; I cannot. See !
the people have all left the parlor ; we are quite
alone," murmured the blonde ; " to-morrow, may I
speak to you here ? I must speak to some friend
who will advise me, I am so unhappy."
With one fair hand extended, with averted head,
and her handkerchief to her eyes, leaving to be seen
the -delicate rose of her creamy cheek flushed with
grief (she-kept carefully the bruised one in shadow),
she floated away, leaving Mr. Glayton quite over-
whelmed, and so filled and possessed with her mag-
nificent loveliness that no other thought found room
in his heart.
On reaching her room she discovered the door
fast, which was nothing unusual. A feeling, half-
amusement, half-dread, made her loiter; thinking of

the odd sight she had left there, and which had been
quite driven from her mind by stress of later thoughts
and new projects, she knocked, and got no answer.
A chamber-maid passed.
"Please open my door, Jane," said she carelessly ;
" I believe Ihave lost my key-oh ! thank you."
She waited till the girl was out of sight before she
turned the knob. The room was perfectly still and
dark ; she moved warily to the match-safe, struck a
light, and faced the bed. The crimson scarf she had
used in her strange work lay in a glowing heap on
the carpet, some loose papers were scattered about,
but the prisoner was gone. She remembered then
that she had left the door wide open, and she smiled
'as she wondered who had been a witness to her hus-
band's flight, and how he had procured his release.
She approached the table. The thought flashed upon
her 'that she had left there, in her absorbing passion,
her jewel-casket, and unlocked-a thing which had
never happened before. Even the banker was ignor-
ant of its contents. Besides rare jewels purchased
with his money, there were the accumulations of
years ; gifts from former lovers ; a ruby, for instance,
which a young man, named Jan Vedder, gave her
when she was only sixteen, of fire and hue like the
great talisman worn by the Moorish Sorceress of 'the
Alhambra; a string-of rare pearls, won by strategy
from Aunt Isadore, of much value ; a set. of tur-
quoises, the gift of a fond old 'fellow who had wished
to have her for his wife; opals from Zambrano.

LORD FEIGNING'S DAUGHTER.

292


294 _     ORD FEZGNING'S DAUGHTER.

These were only a few of the costly things she had
hoarded. She kept them secret-kept then, as a re-
source; something to fall back upon.  The casket
was gone. It was only a plain, wooden box, brass-
bound, very strong, and triple locked ;- nothing
about the exterior to attract cupidity. She flew to
her trunks, searched them hastily : no vestige of it.
Also the India cashmeres she had wound about her
mummy were missing. The banker's valise, over-
coat, and the like, were not to be seen. She palpi-
tated as she became certain that he had gotten pos-
session-; but it might be the spoil of some other thief,
and, she ran hurriedly down to the office to seek in-
formation.
"A square box, with brass corners ! yes, ma'am,
Mr. Nickson took it in his hand when he left here an
hour ago. I saw it when he was buying his Chicago
tickets. It's all safe, ma'am ; but I wouldn't trust
much things of value in your room ; better get them
locked up in the Herrick."
Belle stooped down to search for something on the
floor. She desired to hide her white face and to veil
her eyes from the observation of the smiling clerk.
She felt what a raging devil there was glaring through
her wondrous beauty, and phe wheeled about without
lifting her head, and with a well-managed "thank
you, sir."
She passed a horrible night ; cruelty, hatred, re-
venge struggled for mastery of her. The very spirit
of evil raged within her soul, ansl so profaned its

wonderful temple, that, sitting with clasped hands
and staring, wicked eyes, she looked capable of fiend-
ish deeds. The gray light of morning found her
where she had thrown herself upon entering her apart-
ment, and she rose and took a look at her face, and
was ashamed that she had so allowed passion to get
empire over her as to forget her best power, and
bathing her eyes, and schooling her muscles to at-
tractive graces, she swallowed an opiate (she kept
them always by her latterly), and slept. At the'ap-
pointed hour she descended to meet her new adviser,
quite collected, and mistress of herself. She examined
the livid finger-marks upon her cheek, glad to find
them even more distinct than the evening before.
She meant to make them her evidence in the tale she
was about to tell.
Mr. Clayton was impatiently awaiting her ; and you
may believe she went through her part charmingly.
"Married ? oh yes ; alack for pity ! to a wretch ;
look at the marks of his cruelty. I refused to sing
for his drunken friends ; that earned me this painful
blow ; not the first, either. Ah ! it is'terrible beyond
belief. Only a few weeks a wife, and' all my hopes
cast down, dragged in the dirt, my life wrecked ! "
After a silence, during which the handsome plotter
bent her regal head and dropped quiet tears which
fell like pearls, Mr. Clayton ventured to propound
.an inquiry, quite delicately, as it might sound like a
reflection upon the taste and judgment of the be-
witching sufferer:

L ORD FEIGNING'S DA UG.HTER.  2955


2ORD FEIGNING'S DAUGHTER.

297

How could you make such a choice ?"
Ah, indeed! how could I; but I was alone in
the world, Mr. Clayton. He seemed so honest and of
such good, kind heart, and to love me so very dearly.
The. coarseness I tried to forget'; my friends urged.
me ; I was weary of being dependent. It is a hard
life, sir; he promised so fairly-a-I feel now how
wicked I have been, for i did--not-love him."
The last words were an almost inaudible murmur, and
the modest embarrassment of the speaker was like
the shrinking, sensitive plant. With such texts she
amplified' dexterously, and before the close of the
conference she had elaborated her plan. Mr. Clay-
ton had promised to take rooms at the Folly for hir
self and daughter.
It is a great place ; quite too lare for my simple
habits. I shall be so lonely there. I must have my
sweet Kitty to bear me company ; and I know dearly
well how joyfully she will receive the summons to
come to me-she loves me more than I deserve."
Mr. Clayton could not see how that could well be,
and expressed as much in his looks and words.
She was going home in a few days, and Mr. Clay-
tQn would wait and accompany her ; he would not
communicate with his daughter, but give her the full
benefit of the double surprise.
There were few hours of the intervening time which
were not passed in the company of the Married
Belle, insomuch that the lookers-on sneered, and said,
"the young lover had gotten an old successors" de-

lightfully passed in varied occupation-music, chess,
driving, conversation. The beauty was equally sat-
isfactory everywhere, and understood quite well how
to avoid monotony in her entertainments. Mr. Clay-
ton could not have told whether the idea of a divorce
originated with this "splendid creature tied to 'a
brute," or was the offshoot of his own desires; but
it is certain such an idea had not only presented it-
self to him,, but had been talked over between the
two, gradually, of course, before they left the Man-
sion House. People thrown together in the Bohe-
mian life of a great hotel, cut off from home influences
and home restraints, make- intimacies. with intense
rapidity ; and Mr. Clayton and- Mrs. Nickson were
excellent friends before setting out for Merry Bank.
Mr. Clayton had also gotten a good many new
opinions concerning boarding-schools ; their perni-
cious training ; their promotion of selfishness, vanity,
deceit, and headstrong will; so that without any
actual allusion to Kitty, he felt as if her education
might have been.a failure, and her unpruned charac-
ter overgrown with divers faults. ''Sweet Kitty got
in such a pet !" " Mignonne flew into a 'terrible
rage." "Cherie really made me scold her, she was
so obstinate." These and the like were bits of infor-
mation she industriously compiled, and artlessly in-
termingled with her amusing recitals of their Red
Cottage life ; we also came in for our share. "I
actually felt obliged to remonstrate with Carlotta, she
was so injudicious--.flattery is not good for children.
13*

Lw

LORD FEIGNING'S DAUGHTER,

296


LORD FEIGNING'S DAUGHTER.

LORD FEIGNING'S DAUGHTER.

If I had daughters, Mr. Clayton, they should be re.
spectful and obedient. Mr.-Gorton encourages the
dear girl to be such a sad romp ; you've no idea of
the queer things they permit her to do. It may be
all right, but I was brought up with such very pecu-
liar ideas of refinement and maidenly, delicacy. I
dare say I am foolishly afraid of boisterous hoydens."
The gentleman frowned much during these naive
,revelations, and felt that his daughter must be taken
in hand-must be put under proper influence, and-.
"Ah ! Mrs. Nickson is so perfect a character-if she
should obtain a divorce-she certainly is eminently
calculated to make a man happy." It was'so many
years since this widower had come wit in the sphere
of woman's influence-since he had bestowed a
thought upon any possibility of a domestic life for
himself-that once the idea found lodgment in his
mind, it persisted in stopping there, despite all pro-
priety-fighting, and while he felt too much respect for
the handsome martyr to hint at such a consummation,
he pondered it in secret, and fed it by constant ob-
servation of her multiform graces and attractions.
On the last morning she came to him in a becom-
ing travelling dress, and looking resplendently lovely,
but extremely shamefaced and disheartened.
"Mr. Clayton, how shall I tell you ? "' said she,
stepping so close to him that he caught the he-
liotrope odor from her floating curls.
" What is it, my dear Belle ? "-she begged him to
call her "Belle," saying, " the name she was forced to

bear was so, utterlyodious to her," as well it might
be.
"This absurd hotel-keeper ! I don't know how to
find words, it is so dreadful-such a shameful indig-
nity ! "
it took a little pressing to bring out the truth,
which came at last in the sweetest of low voices, and
amidst the most charming blushes. " My trunks-
all detained ! the bills not paid. Oh, dear ! what a
fate is mine ! "
" Give yourself no uneasiness,. my dearest Belle ;
don't think of it for a moment ! I will attend to the
matter. I heartily trust the time approaches when
you will have suffered the last of these unpleasant ex-
periences-when you will be free from this monster
who is so reckless of your happiness, so unworthy of
the infinite treasure he has gained. You have my
warmest sympathy ; trust the whole to me."
"Sympathy is akin to pity, pity akin to love,"
thought Belle, as she lifted her eyes, swimming in
grateful gushingness. (" Deai-, what a pity he is so
very sallow, and so bald ! ") " Ah," said she, "how
can I thank you enough ? You cannot know how in-
expressibly sweet it is to me, so long shut up in myself,
to find a safe friend upon whom I may lean for com-
fort. My dreadful husband has money enough, and,
of course, he will make it right on his return ; but how
unfeeling to desert me in such a manner ! Ah ! if he
would but stay out of my sight till I could be free
from his insults,. safe from his brutality. Words

I

w3

298

299,


300     LORD FEIGNING'S DAUGHTER.

cannot express my humiliation-to be beaten like a
dog!
She shuddered and shivered and looked so utterly
heart-broken, that Mr. Clayton made haste to take
her hands in his and to squeeze them a little, while
he spoke such words of consolation as suggested
themselves ; and he had the greatest mind in the
world to kiss off a tear which filtered through her
dropped eyelid; and after just .touching her cheek,
the hue of a blush rose, dropped, a round pearl,
upon his hand. Fortunately, he was so much out of
practice that it took some courage for violent love-
making, and he hastened away to assume the neces-
sary preliminaries for their departure.

'I

CHAPTER XXV.
OUR NUTTING PARTY.
HE summer was all gone long ago ; June had
scattered her roses; August had left the
sweetness of her perfumed breath upon the
ripe hay, before she gathered up her gossamer robes
for departure. The woods were gay with their red
and golden leaves; and the acorns lay piled beneath
the great oaks, and the chestnut burrs were open, and
lying hid away among the shining brown foliage,
waiting till the boys'and girls should, hunt them out,
with many a shout, with frisky springing and jocund
singing.
Henry, accompanied by Pitkin Sterling, drove a
livery span up to the door of the Red Cottage, and
politely invited us to come out nutting. Of course,
we dropped .all our occupations in a hurry, though
we were deep in the mysteries of cider-apple sauce.


302        OUR NUTTING PARTY.

Carlotta swung off the crane from whence depended
the four-pailed brass kettlein which the sweet juice
was bubbling and steaming, and bade Winnie "watch
it for her life during her absence."  Kitty set down
the basket of "pumpkin-honeys " she was coreing,
and vanished upstairs ; and almost before we knew
where she had flown, she came dancing down, ar-
rayed in a spick and span fresh dress, and stood in
the open doorway, taking leave of Jim, and drawing on
her little gloves, and ready for a start. With sundry
last charges and warnings to our faithful old factotum,
Carlotta and I came forth ; and we all piled into the
four-wheeled vehicle called a Landau, and bowled
merrily along the plank-road with spirits ready for
any adventure. It was one of those perfect Fall
days when earth and sky look their best, and
the air is deliciously cool and invigorating. We
turned off into the sweet-smelling woods, where the
slender brakes gave out grateful odors with every
pressing footstep ; where the woodchucks peeped at
us from their holes, and the gray squirrels basked
among the high branches, and the carrion-crows
wheeled and cawed over our heads. We filled the
moments with jest and song, and our baskets with
glossy stores, and forgot our years and dignities, and
made children of ourselves just for a little while.
There came near being a fuss, though, because
Mr. Sterling thought proper to ask Carlotta if she
had read "John Halifax," and after getting an affirma-
tive, he extended his inquiry upon very dangerous

ground-asking if she thought she could make such
a wife as Ursula, adding, "She is my idea of a life-
mate.                            o
They were sitting apart, eating amicably out of
the same basket. I knew .directly that something
had gone amiss, because Carlotta jumped up so sharp
as to overset the receptacle, and send the contents
spinning.
"A  stupid, unreasoning nobody-look how she
treated that poor girl ! no, I flatter myself I never-
could ! I should be sorry to think I could let a day
pass without saying or. doing something sensible ;
and as for John Halifax, I consider. him a priggish,
obstinate mule !~- If you are building such a couple-
ship with me in it, you may pull it to pieces at your
leisure. I'll none. of it ! Once for all, I'm not going
to make such a wife as anybody ! I don't want such
a husband as anybody! If you can't leave off study-
ing models, comparing and measuring, you'd better
go back to China."
"Yes, ny dear Carlotta, I'intend to return to the
Celestial Empire when the necessary preliminaries
are adjusted-such as a wedding-ring, trousseau, etc.
I think it will make a unique bridal-trip, just enough
out of the common to suit my very rarely endowed
bride. Then you think you can't make an Ursula ? "
" Can't ! I didn't say that-I could do anything I
liked-I won't !
"Very well, I won't urge you-Carlotta suits me
tolerably--only don't spap my" head off. -On the

OUR NUTTING PARTY.         3p3.


304          OUR NUTTING PARTY.
whole, I don't believe I shouldn't like Ursula for a
wife."
Seeing that we were all laughing at her, the lady
flounced down and ,began gathering together the
scattered spoil. They made it up somehow after
we. left them, because they were excellent friends,
and Carlotta as sweet as a rose the rest of the day.
I never saw Kitty Clayton look prettier. A sort
of cloud had been hanging over the dear child. The
lover she had gotten was' a care and an anxiety to
her. Her firm trust in him was not precisely shaken,
but there was something she could not understand.
In all the weeks which had elapsed she had received
but a couple of letters: the first full of merry
plans for their future, of success against the Brazen
Gates, whimsical lamentations because his hair would
not curd, and of fond praises of Lady Delight. She
put it away with the sprig of jessamine and a wild
columbine he had given her that happy evening be-
neath the yellow harvest moon, when she had prom-
ised to be his-wife. The .next, short, speaking only
of business, constant occupation, etc. We never
mentioned the subject to her ; with all her simplicity
there was a certain reticence about her which hedged
securely her secret emotions. -When ,Aunt Elinor
scolded and threatened, she only said: "Now, don't,
auntie ; I will not be a bugbear ; he shall do as he
likes: If he has changed his mind, he shall not be
hauled up and pounced upon. I am only a simple,
little, childish thing, not half fit for a wife. If he has

OUR NUTTING PARTY.            305 .
found it out, and regrets what he has done, let it
pass ; you shan't frown at me, auntie ; you shall not
persecute him-I won't have him scolded. It was a
cunning little dream; I enjoyed it, and if I have to
wake up out of it, all you could do or say wouldn't
help me any.".
It was after such a conversation that Miss Walsing-
ham privately enclosed and dispatched the ivory-
type ; and she had felt ever since as if she had done
the girl an injury; though she sternly said, " If
there is.anything amiss; and that face does not set- it
right, I shall be disappointed in my boy, and what's
more, I'll stay disappointed the rest of my life."
To-day the exhilarating air, the merry party, and
the wild-wood frolic, which Kitty dearly loved, in-
spired her. Doubts and fears fled away-like mists
before sunbeams, and her glad life and cheerfulness
made us very happy.
On- our return home we'stopped at the 1Merry
Bank post-office for the family mail, and Henry ran
in for it, while Kitty made great show of holding in
-the ferocious beasts of livery hacks during his ab-
sence. He tarried three or four minutes, and when
he came out he took the reins from the laughing
girl without speaking to or looking at her. The re-
mainder of the distance he seemed absorbed in
painful thought, making no reply to his favorite's
sprightly nonsense, except a pitying glance at her
sometimes.. When we reached, she sprang lightly
to the ground.

L

.


OUR NUTTING PARTY.

307

"I declare! there is that tiresome old gobbler on
the gully fence, waiting for me to chase him home,
I suppose ; well, I'll soon realize his expectations, I
will chase him!" She started off with springing step.
" Oh, Kitty! here's a letter for you !" (poor dear!)
Henry added, under his breath.
He had received one by the same mail from his old
college chum, Bradbury (in fact, it was through our
lawyer that Archie Laurie had obtained his excellent
position), of the firm of Bradbury &amp; Laurie, making.-
pretty full mention of his junior's late escapade, and
his present absence amongst the lumbermen.
Kitty wheeled swiftly about. The wild wind
sported with her curls, blowing them all over her rosy
cheeks, and her eyes danced through their meshes with
innocent glee. She caught sight of Henry's half-
averted face, and her own dropped directly 'and the
red color faded out of her face, the gay sparkle from
her glance.
"You have bad news there," said she ; " my father
is ill."
"It is not from New Orleans," replied Henry, busy-
ing his hands with the harness. She tore it open,
standing there in the clear .sunset, and hurriedly read
it. Mr. Sterling walked away, not wishing to be a
witness of what he foresaw would be unpleasant. She
made no moan, but turning to Carlotta, she buried
her pitiful face in her bosom, and clasping close the
woman-friend, she hushed her grief and sorrow, silent-
ly struggling.

" Come. away, pet, to my room; let's talk," whis-
pered Carlotta.
She complied without a word ; and thrust the letter
into the hand which sought hers. "I wish I could
take a little cry," said she ; " I feel so choked, so hurt;
so ashamed.
The tears did come at last ; great bursts of sobbing
swept over her slight frame, leaving her quivering and
exhausted. Carlotta held her quietly, not knowing
what to say to her ; she had not calculated on the cap-
acity for suffering in this delicately strung nature ; and
she was forced to look on, nearly powerless to offer
aid in this, her first trouble. Words would not touch
it, and endurance in a solitary state, which knows no
neighbors.

306

OUR NUTTING PfIRrI'Y.


CHAPTER XXVI.
GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.
T was the. time in the' waning day ere the
evening lamps are lighted, etc. We all sat to-
gether before the sociable wood-fire, which
chippered softly among its ruddy blazes, each one si-
lent and thoughtful...
Kitty sat on a low stool ; her scarlet wools and-her
crochet pins lay unused in her lap, and she was leaning
her head, like a weary child, against Carlotta's knee,
her idle fingers interlocked and pressed together, and
her mournful eyes gazing into the changing' coals.
Archie's letter was a manly one ; he had not spared
himself in the least, but there was.a little hitch. In
his self-blame he had confined his epistle to statements
of facts, and left them naked and uripalliated: not
asking to be forgiven, or speaking of the future, and
Kitt felt sure, and the more she pondered it, surer,

GHOSTS ON ROLLERS            309
that Belle Brandon was still in his thoughts, or that
her simple self was too simple and childish and insuf-
ficient to  fill avoid left by such gorgeousness, variety,
and diverse attractions-it is -a 'ty sometimes that
souls cannot communicate with t poor words ; it
would save so many heart-aches and misunderstand-
ings-while Archie, proudly leaving everything to her,
not asking even for a reply to his letter, was waiting
to hear her verdict, she, brooding over probabilities
and undervaluing her own powers, had no intention
to shorten the distance she imagined he had placed
between them, and was silently striving to forget him
and leave him out of her life. It seemed as if she had
suffered enough, but there was more to come-the
bitterness of unfeeling tongues, which wound like
daggers. Merry Bank is a little village, and the ris-
ing up and sitting of its inhabitants are well known
to each other ; and what is not fully known is guessed
out, and everything is commented upon by everybody,
and the town is quite likely to side off into violent
partisanship, over very immaterial occurrences, and
hard words are bandied and sharp sayings fired off by
picked combatants, who become personally aggrieved
and often bitter enemies, on- account of events which
concerned them not in the remotest degree.
My eyes were fixed upon Kitty; and my thoughts
busy about her. I could not help a sigh as I studied
her drooping little figure, so buoyantly able to express
light-heartedness-the flickering fire-shine playing
over her patient face, so gentle sweet in its sadness.

I

L

I "


310         GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.

Mrs. Squirmwell had been to see. Kitty, and told her
"at to mind what folks said, for Mr. Squirmwell
thought everything of her ; and to come into her
Sunday-school class, and that there was as go  fish
in the sea as ever was caught out, and that fames
Peacock thought she had beautiful eyes ; and to pick
up another feller," and had gone home, feeling highly
puffed up by the tone and spirit of her consolations,
and left our poor child, who had been quite speech-
less, while the visitor held her hand. in her damp,
clammy one, and entirely powerless-to resist the fare-
well kiss she had got from the rather moist lips of the
singing woman; humbled in the dust, and ashamed to
look in our faces, or let us look in hers.
Miss Walsingham had ,come down and carried her,
off almost by force, to spend a day. She.shrank es-
pecially from this full-voiced, hearty woman, who had
lived down and conquered her own small foibles;
who knew all about her lover, and her happiness,
and who-would wound her by scolding and calling
him hard names. She had shown his last letter to his
aunt, who would not be denied, but she did it under
protest ; and she also hung on her neck, refusing to
let her go except she promised not to interfere by
word or deed.
" If Archie wishes to make up, he will come and
say so ; if he doesn't, he will stay away. I never
will take one step towards him. I am not like Belle
Brandon to run after people, and I shall let him un-
derstand it."

"But, my child, you ought to write to him ; you
owe him an answer to his letter ; it is- your plain
duty."
" No, auntie; he did not ask me ; he treats our
engagement as a thing of the past, and it is, I think.
I shall die Kitty Clayton. I have had my wish ; I
got a lover and I lost him ; and there is the end of
the whole."
And Kitty returned in the evening to us, very
weary, and glad to be left alone with her sorrow,
among friends who let her work out her life without
any obtrusive thrusts of advice.
As I was saying, while we sat around our fire, the
house-door opened without any warning, and like a
ghost on rollers came Mrs. Ramble among us.
"Why, laws-a-me!" she exclaimed, untying her
bonnet, and letting up the horse-hair everlastings from
among her grizzled frizzles as she pushed back the
head-gear. "Laws-a-me ! how dreadful pleasant it
does look here ! I can't stay a second hardly; I just
run in. I always tell our folks there ain't nothing so
cheersome as a good bright fire-place, and Carlotta
keeps her hand irons so proper clean too ; mine won't
stay yaller ; I rub 'em up every once in a while with
salt and vinegar, but they will turn kinder grim and,
green. You use rottenstun an' ile, don't you? Well,
I reckon 'tis the best, but it takes such a lot of elbow
grease, an' I declare my arms give out ; it's such
a-heatin' job. If I had a Winnie to -do all mr dirty
work, I'd shine too. Ramble will have that-old dum-

GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.           31r

i


312         GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.

betty of- a stove stuck right into the middle of the
sittin'-room ; he says the fire is allus goin' out in the
fire-place so that he can't toast his feet nights- 'tis
monstrous apt to, I .have to be away so much to
prayer meetin's aiid such. I can't bear to neglect
the means.of grace, 'specially when they meet to the
neighbors round. I most usually hear and see kinder
curus things. I tell Ramble 'tain't so much conse-
quence about critter-comforts, so long as there's a
fire kindled on the altar."
By the time she had got thus far she was comfort-
ably seated in-the big rocking-chaii, which Jim 'most
unwillingly vacated for her occupancy, spitting and
growling most inhospitably as she pushed him out,
and vindict'vely eying her afterwards. Having taken
out the ble sock, and  adjusted' her needle in its
goose- uill sheath, she clicked along with her knitting'
and her remarks, while her sharp eyes sought out and
peered into everything around her.
"I had quite an accident this morning. You see
Ramble got kinder belated, and the fire wouldn't go
very brisk, and I hauled out a handful of straw out of
the bed to'kindle with, and as true as you live, I burnt
up Ramble's silver watch that his pa give him when
he died. I didn't find it out till I took up the ashes,
and there it was, sure enough,, asblack as the chimbly._
I don't know what he'll say; I don't care no great;
he no business, to tucked it in there. That sort o'
makes you laugh, don't it, Kitty?  Kitty's kinder,
pimpin' lately, ain't she.?  I heard about your gettin'

GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.

.31
yer pictures took that time. $am Sheepshanks, that
did the job, he boards to my house; he's kinder settin'
up to my -Melinda Maria. He didn't think no great
shakes of that Archie ; he said he put on too many
airs, ad he was a good mind to lick him. I tellyou,
Kitty, it's the folks that turns the wheels and grinds
the axes that fills up the chinks in this world, that
is the best judges of dispositions. They see un-
derside, you know; 'tain't no object to be pretty to
them."
Henry began Ioudly to hum " Win'dham," suddenly
breaking out, as if his feelings were too many for him;
but Mrs. Ramble, though she paused a moment, and
beat time with her knitting-needle,scratching her head
with the point .of it afterwards, was not a whit dis-
turbed.
"I dunno as you've heard the news ! That Belle
Brandon, what a rig she's been runnin' down to the
city, goin' round the stores, dressed to fits, and buy-
in' everything she could lay claws on. I thought I'd
run in neighborly like, and tell you, because Belle-
was such a friend of yourn, and .it was through you
that she' got her rich husband and all ; and Iknew
you'd like to hear what a fool she's makin' of herself,
and she ain't the. only one either; Archie Laurie,
he's been waitin' on -her; she's just the one to have a
lot of men round, and- be singing and makin' eyes,
and flirtin' with 'em. They say Archie rode 'out, and
walked out, and kept after her, and her husband
come 'and got mad, and they had an awful muss,.and
14

a

~1

313


314 GHOSTS ON ROLLERS '-
he struck her so as she carried the marks on her
cheek for a week ; and Archic, he went away ; some
says he had'to leave 'twixt two days ; I don't know
nothin' about that ; 'tenrate, 'twas ridiculous ; he
hadn't no business foolin' after that stuck-up peacock,
and she ,a married woman. .Yes, Archie's a fine fel-
ler ; -I always liked Archie; but that's just the way
with men. I tell Ramble wouldn'tt make a mite of
difference if they had an angel from heaven for a
wife-not a mite ! "
Kitty tightened her clasp upon Carlotta's fingers,
and her frame quivered, but she never moved nor
took her eyes from the changing coals. The old
knocker gave out a sharp rat-a-tat, and.Winnie, in a
fierce condition of tucked-up gown, ushered, in Belle
Nickson and Mr. Clayton-the lady all gushingness,
smiles, and beauty, and the gentleman following in
her wake, perfectly satisfied with her companionship,
and  quite alive to the new class of emotions she in-
spired in his breast.  She floated up to Carlotta
and seized bothher hands, but she did not keep them
long; and thence to Henry, who rose up aghast to
receive her compliments ; then she seized upon Kitty,
who had sprung to her feet and stood pale and
trembling, looking from the gentleman to the lady
in fear and amazement..
Her own papa.! and in such company!,- on such
friendly terms !
My sweet Mignonne, here we are ! Now you owe
me a thousand kisses; look what I have brought you:

GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.
And you are to come right away with us to my home,
where you are to stay, oh ! forever, I hope. Is she
not, Mr. Clayton ? " Then pretending to observe in
wonder, Kitty's embarrassment, she gave her a little
push: "Why, Cherie, you ungrateful child, what's
the matter-are you not glad to see your papa?"
"Yes," stammered Kitty, feeling that her father
was sternly, critically regarding her. "How do you
do, papa?" said she faintly, sidling toward him and
scarcely daring to look up. -Belle burst into a laugh
musical-and unpleasant.
" What a funny little midge it is! 'how do you do,
papa?"' mimicking her tone and manner. "Why don't
you rush into his arms, hug him ! kiss him !" She
folded her own rapturously-and suggestively. "Here
he has come all these weary miles to see you ; I have
been impatient to arrive that I might witness your
joy; and all you have for him is a cold 'how do you
do, papa?'"
With his daughter's shrinking manner thus dis-
agreeably thrust upon his notice, Mr. Clayton looked
stern and forbidding, and felt thathe was being very
ill-treated by an ungrateful child -; and after a chilly
kiss upon her cheek, he put the poor thing from him
and turned toward us, explaining his route, and
talking generalities without bestowing any further
attention upon her. An inexpressible constraint
shadowed all our attempts at cordiality ; and with
Belle in front of her, Carlotta got crisper every
moment, and said such sharp things that I felt sure


3 16         GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.
Mr. Clayton must regard her as a shrew and a vixen,
and I--attempted to rally, and be cheerful and polite;
and then Belle came and whispered in my ear,
"That's right, Serena ; a great catch ; first impressions,
you know-I'll help you," which of course effectually
quenched me; and added to her joyousness. In fact,
she was perfectly radiant, and talked and laughed,
and appeared to Mr. Clayton in a state of rich ex-
pansiveness and beaming beauty, unparalleled in his
previous experience.
"Come, Cherie," said she, rising at length, "get
your hat, please : we must go home."
Kitty drew back and looked imploringly at Car-
lotta. Mr. Clayton also rose and fixed his eyes
upon his daughter, disapproving of her 'utterly.
"What have you been doing to Cherie ?" asked
Belle merrily. "She is as vite as a primrose; why
will you not let me touch your hand, child? I am not
a basilisk that I should blight you. Look, Mr. Clay-
ton, doesn't she appear as if we were hailing her to
prison and the judgment ?"
"Do you wish Kitty to accompany you this even-
ing?" asked Henry soberly; "it seems rather sudden,
and is also a trifle late,"
"I have taken rooms in Mrs. Nickson's house, by
a great kindness of hers, during my stay in town,-and-
of course I expected Miss Clayton to occupy them,
but after some trouble and inconvenience to myself,
I perceive I am not very welcome, and certainly shall
not insist upon her sharing my quarters."

GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.
" Oh yes, papa," stammered Kitty ; "I am coming
with you, but I was so surprised."
"And so delighted," laughed Belle.
"Mr. Clayton," said Carlotta, turning her back
upon the blonde, whose eyes got the color of tempered
steel, "I wish you would consent to leave Kitty with
us; she is not well, she is at home here, we love her,
and cannot bear to part with her."
"I shall not compel her to accompany me," an-
swered Mr. Clayton, stiffly.
" Where's your husband now, Belle ? " spoke up
Mrs. Ramble, who had kept unusually silent thus far,
watching all parties, and congratulating herself upon
her good luck in happening round just in the nick of
time. " Gone horse-racing ? Law me ! you kinder
ignore him so, folks forget you've got one.; you must
forget it yourself sometimes,^don't you ? We heard
all how you tied him up to the bedstead. I said
it served him right, if he couldn't take a joke. You
train him, I'll be bound. He'll find out the differ-
ence between wine -and winegar afore he dies."
" Kitty," said Belle, hurriedly turning her back
upon her ancient enemy, and, as it were, wiping her
out of the group; " Kitty, Cherie, I really must hurry
you; I am a housekeeper now. I have a couple of
new servants up at the Folly, awaiting my orders ;
we must hasten home and tell them about breakfast.
What shall we have? . Waffles ! I see it in your eyes.
I know what Cherie loves: peaches and cream, and
omelette. Won't it be fun to have what we like?


GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.3

We must beg Carlotta to teach us housekeeping. I
invite you Red Cottageites, every one, to dine and
sup off our good things."
Kitty listened-to her pleasant words dropping like
honey, and looked at her father-who stood apart,
in an- offended attitude-sidled out, feeling awkward
and embarrassed, and generally of small importance..
I followed her, and she threw herself into my arms.
"Why, Kitty, darling, don't take on so! " I said,;
"you will make your papa think you are not glad to
see .him ; and you know how often and often 'you
liave longed for his coming. You will have beautiful
times up there ; and you must brighten up, and you
must show him what a sweet, dear daughter he has."'
" I cannot act like myself with her by !'" sobbed
she; "I wish I could stay here. I am afraid ! oh,
dear.! what shall I do?",
I let her cry a little, and then made her bathe her
face. "She *will not dare to be disagreeable ; I
don't think she will wish to," said I, trying to believe
my own statement; "and we will run~ up often. I
don't see any help for it. If I could find any way to
keep you without offending your father ; but it can't
be done.",
Kitty hung back. "But I met Archie there. I
had a lovely time that night ; better than I can ever
have again ; and now it is so different. How strange
it seems ! like an ugly dream-for my papa to walk
in with Belle Brandon !-Why couldn't she stay
away?. I don't want to go and live in-her house; I

don't like her; I hate her! What if Archie should
come up there ? I should die if I had to see them
together. I wish I dared tell papa how he has be-
haved. I can't go ; I won't go I I will stay here ;
you'll let me, won't you ? "
Putting her hastily from me, I ran downstairs.
I .am a shy person-a poor talker ; but I spoke
firmly: " Mr. Clayton," said I, " please let us 'have
Kitty to-night ; the poor child is not well ; a night's-
rest will refresh her and set her all right. As I have
undertaken to be her physician I desire to keep her
where I can see the effect of my medicines."
"Cherie has a great deal of will," said Belle,
shaking her head. sadly; " a great, .deal; she has
taken an unaccountable whim about this; I can't
understand it, but I really do not think you ought to
encourage her."
"She - has not a stubborn will," said, Carlotta ;
"she is only too heavenly, kind, and patient, and
gentle. Come, be careful, now, Madame Belle ! I
am reasonably forbearing, but I will say something
if you provoke me."
Belle laughed innocently. " Oh, no doubt of that,
Carlotta ; all who have been so happy as to live ,in
the same house with you know quite well how fast.
you can talk ; I am sure I have no objection. It
seems-very kind of you, to wish to shelter Kitty and
conceal her faults, but I do not think it is right; and
I am too outspoken 'to do it. I think it is her plain
duty to obey her father, -as it ought to be her

r

GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.

3a8

31I9


320         GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.

pleasure, and would be under different influence..
You see, Mr. Clayton, it is just as I toldyou."
I saw and felt that for some reason of her own
Belle wished to make a breach between us ; and I
determined she should not get her will.
"I have always given you credit for amazing
sharpness, 'Belle," said I, pleasantly;. "and you
must be endowed with wonderful penetration if
you can discover any blemishes in our dear, sweet
child; but we will take them all for granted. The
point in debate just now : shall we be permitted to
keep her for this night? Only say'' yes', Mr. Clay-
ton, please."
''"Why, Serena ! how very coaxing you can be.!
What a pity you had not begun earlier ! Say 'no,'
sir. You must be deaf to the voiceof the charmer.
Kitty needs a father's authority, and this is a good
point to make. I really cannot consent to the mar-
ring of all our beautiful plans-we'll stop on the way
and buy baby a sugar-plum."
Tell my daughter I desire her to descend di-
rectly,." said Mr. Clayton, in freezing tones.
.' Thank you, sir ; i only needs-a little firmness on
your part, and all will e well. Carlotta, you are
the efficiency in this ho sehold, and I leave it with
you to see that the child's trunks are packed and dis--
patched to the Folly early to-morrow'."
Kitty came, pale and uncomfortable, and when the
blonde took her father's proffered arm, she followed
as best she might. She did not speak a word during

the walk, and Mr. Clayton seemed quite engrossed
by the sprightly nothings of the handsome plotter,
who exerted herself to be delightful.
"Since you are an invalid, Cherie, you had better
retire immediately," said Belle, when they reached
her" home. '"I hope you will rise in good trim to-
morrow, because I shall need your assistance in ar-
ranging our new furniture ; we must teach Cherie to
be useful, must we not, Mr. Clayton?"
"Certainly; I hope the life she is about to com-
mence will develop new qualities. I am sure it must,
under such guidance.
"Thank you,.sir ;" I believe I have rather a special-
ty, which, is training young maidens to industry.
It seems a pity to be idle in a world where there is so
much to accomplish-for me ; - I shall be only too
glad to fill my hours."
Kitty's room was opposite her father's, and she
went in without a good-night kiss; Mr. Clayton felt
very angry, considered ,her very ungrateful ; uncon-
sciously, the leaven Belle had been so busily dropping
into his mind was leavening the whole lump.
Oh! what a sore heart our poor, friendless darling
took to her couch that night ! She lay awake. long,
trying-to make out what it all meant ; how it had
come to pass-she in the power of the woman who
had done her best to wreck her happiness. After
thinking till her head ached, and praying some fervent
prayers, she slept at length ; her last thought a resolu-
tion to speak with her papa in the morning, and get

N

I

"1

GHOSTS ON ROLLERS,         32I.


322

GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.

near enough to let .him know how dearly she loved
and wished to please him.I
She rose betimes, dressed herself carefully,.and
knocked at the opposite door., She knocked hur-
riedly, and with a fluttering heart; she heard in the
distance the clear voice of the hostess, who sang a
morning hymn, and she almost resolved to enter un-
bidden, so.much did she dread her coming. While
she stood irresolutely with the knob in her fingers,
Belle floated up to her, and Mr. Clayton came out
just in time to surprise an affecting tableau, viz., his
naughty child in the arms of her forgiving friend,-who
beamed upon them both in a cherubic manner, as she
uttered her musical good-morning. Not only was the
opportunity lost, but Kitty felt- ashamed of her cow-
ardice, which had not repulsed caresses she abhorred,
and so left her in a false position even more difficult
than ever.
"Come, Cherie," said Belle, as they rose from the
breakfast table, at which she had presided with grace-
ful elegance, looking "like Mopsa, the queen of curds
and cream," while our darling sat by, silent, con!
strained, and uncomfortable ; the. good-morning sa-
lute she had offered her father having been coolly re-
"ceived, and her red eyes and unhappy face having
been severely noted and disapproved of. "Come, I
want you to try my new piano, and show your father
how well you can play."
"I cannot," faltered she; ''"you know, Belle, I
have not the least bit of execution."'

x

GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.

323

"Nonsense, child ! Now don't go into one of your
perverse fits. If you do, I shall feel it my'duty to
scold you ; just sit down and dash off something; we
are not hard critics to willing children; are we, sir ? "
'" Papa ! do you wish it ?" asked Kitty desper-
ately. ''I will do anything for you that I can ; - but I
have-no talent for music ; never could learn it."
''I do not expect to find my daughter disobliging,"
answered Mr. Clayton; "Ihate missiness and nonsense.
You have been taking piano lessons-at least I have
paid' for them, and I expect you to show some signs
of proficiency."
"I'l do my best, papa,". replied Kitty' humbly;
"but my best is very poor indeed."
She sat down, and commenced a school piece ; but
the keys blurred beneath her swimming eyes, and her
fingers refused to go right, and 'after half a dozen fu-
tile attempts to rally, she burst. into tears, and laying
her pretty head on the instrument, she cried ready to
break her poor little heart.
" You must not blame our dear Cherie," purred
Belle apologetically; "she has been so petted and
'spoiled, any crossing of her .whims or rigorous re-
straints are extremely disagreeable to her. She will
soon rise above all such childishness, under your firm,
judicious hand. Don't you feel like trying again,
Mignonne? it is a pity to leave such an impression
upon your good father; he will excuse you if you
really make an effort. Play that little polka Archie
Laurie was so fond of."

f


324          GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.

Goaded to desperation, Kitty sprang to her feet:
"Don't you dare to mention that name to me, you
wicked woman-you wretch-you fiend ! Oh, papa,
you do not know how cruel she is to me. Don't let
her plague me--so; do pity me."
"Go to your room," replied her father. "I am
displeased, disappointed, disgusted. Such offensive,
unladylike behavior, such coarse epithets ; ungrateful,
too, to a lady who kindly endeavors to assist you to
appear at your best ; selfish in your stubborn refusal
to comply with my wishes. Go to your room."
" Do not be hard upon Cherie. I assure you, I
long ago ceased to mind her little tempers ; you see
they do not move me, answered the blonde, in a
beautiful gushing attitude ; "forgive her this once as
I do, freely ; I will answefor her in future."
She went up to Kitty and attempted to pass an
arm around her waist, but the child shrank from her.
approach as from a deadly reptile ; she tried hard to
control her emotions and realize her position.
"Papa, papa ! " she cried, "will you not listen to
me ! I am not bad, I am not wilful, nor disobedient.
I love you dearly, only let me tell you the truth; let
me speak to you, when her dreadful eyes.are noton
me. Ah, papa, you do not know Belle Brandon;
dearest papa, don't frown ! don't turn away! __I am
your child, your little Kitty ; oh, ask Carlotta if I am
bad. Oh ! do not kill me with such looks ; oh ! my
heart will break !"
Mr. Clayton's eyes were fixed upon the face of

the blonde, who used all her baleful power to enchant
them, and he saw his daughter through the glamour
she threw about her. He had been ,well: prepared
for any delinquencies on the part of the child, and
the words he used were somehow inspired in his
mind by her arch cunning, somehow given him to
speak ; and when she lowered her superb head, and
dropped her creamy countenance into her mouchoir,
sending him a waft of heliotrope and. a martyr-
glance, he sternly commanded Kitty to leave him,
adding, " Stay till I recall you; I must put an end-to
this sort of thing ; I hope it is not too late."
"Do not be harsh, sir," murmured the belle, as
Kitty left them: "Cherie will think so hardly of poor
me, who love her dearly, and only wish to see her lit-
tle faults corrected. Pray, permit me to carry to her
your kind forgiveness."
"You are too good, Mrs. Nickson--quite too for-
bearing ; she must first learn what it is to.displease a
father, to brave his anger."
"Let me implore you, sir, consider her unfortunate
training; I beseech you to remit your severity, and
smile on the child. Your frowns are too terrible to
bear ; the weight of your displeasure too crushing."
. " Since you condescend to interest yourself -so
charmingly in my unworthy daughter, I will relent ;
but she must fully understand to whom she owes her
forgiveness; and must-humbly beg your pardon."
As Belle knew something of the strength un-
derlying Kitty's childishness, and did not wish to

GHOSTS ON ROLLERS,'         3


326          GHOSTS ON ROLLERS..
have her shut up when there was dusting and run
Wing to do, she made no mention of terms in h
summons, and also managed so adroitly, that the
wise papa was satisfied of her contrition.
But no-sooner were they seated at dinner than he
cropped out in fresh desires to pursue investigations
upon the unfortunate maid's educational attainments ;
whether self-prompted or set on by the blonde, I
cannot tell; and' he opened upon her with a variety
of examination questions. If any of my young read-
ers have ever been thus suddenly and unexpectedly
brought up to such searching tests of scholarship,
they may comprehend the absolute vacuity of Kitty's
mind, from which scurried away everything she ever
knew, hiding in unfindable corners, leaving, her over-
whelmed with confusion and mortification.
"What and where is Malta, Miss Clayton?"
Kitty seemed to know that Jim was a Maltese cat,
and almost remembered hearing Henry say his love
of olives and raisins came from his birthright; and
she felt that something must be said, the silence was
so dreadful; so she falteringly replied, "A city of
Athens, I think, papa."
"An excellent commencement," replied her father
grimly. "Now then, what is Gibraltar, andto whom
does it belong?"
Kitty remembered the yellow streak on the map
which located the thing, and reasoned that it must
naturally belong to one of its two neighbors, so she
said:

GHOSTS OAT ROLLERS.

327

" It is a fort, sir, belonging to Spain-or Portu-
gal."
" Remarkable, upon my word ! Well, what is
thunder?"
" An awful noise," stammered Kitty.
" Dangerous, I suppose?"
"Yes, sir, very ; kills people."
"We will turj   the science of arithmetic ; I dare
say you are equally proficient there. If A. doeg a
piece of work in four days and B. does it in eight
days, how long would it take them both?"
Kitty wet her parched tongue as well as she could,
and having added the two numbers together, gave it
as her opinion that twelve was the result ; but on
being asked sharply, "twelve what? " was uncertain
whether it might be twelve days, twelve men, or
twelve pieces of work.
" Upon my soul, this is refreshing," said Mr. Clay-
ton; " you also learned, I presume, spelling."
" Yes, sir, a little."
" Let me hear you spell Nebuchadnezzar."
Kitty, commenced and put in so many letters and
jumbled them so hopelessly that finally Belle finished
for her "'t-i-o-n-shun t-y ty," and laughed heartily.
Poor Kitty hid her face in her 'napkin when her fa-
ther joined his hostess in her contagious mirth, and
silently wept.
"Boarding establishments are rather uncertain in
their results," said Belle. "If I might venture to
advise, I would recommend a good grounding insti-


4,

328

GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.

tution for our dear Mignonne ; it would be of infinite
service, and luckily there is an excellent one close at
hand, the district school hard by the Red Cottage."
" An admirable suggestion," acquiesced Mr. Clay-
ton. "I will immediately act upon it. Kitty, prepare
yourself to enter directly,' and I hope you will en-
deavor to make up for lost time."
"Oh, papa ! don't send me there among those dirty_
-boys and girls. I can't go, indeed; let me study by
myself. I will be industrious."
"As you /ave been, probably. No, Kitty, you
deserve a punishment for such a waste of your op-
portunities, and I consider this a proper sentence.
You need not attempt to reason with me ; it is useless.
You will obey me."
Kitty rose and hastened away.
"You will not feel all this care too much, I trust,
Mrs. Nickson," said the gentleman considerately, as
they rose from the table.
" Ah ! that hateful name," murm-ured Belle, sink-
ing down upon a sofa; "how much longer must I
bear it.?"
Mr. Clayton came,, over and sat down beside her
and took her hand in his.
" My poor girl needs a mother sadly," said he.Ir
"In any other circumstances I should think it a crime
to speak what I am going to utter, but thrown in your
society, studying your transparent goodness, I can-
not hold my peace. If I am able to procure free-
dom for you to form new ties, may I hope that after

GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.

329

a suitable time elapses I may be so blessed as to call
you mine."
Belle trembled, quite shook, in fact ; he, holding her
beautiful dimpled fingers, felt the tremor and pitied
her.
"I can never face the terrible ordeal, the publicity,
the shame. I fear I must try to fare on to the end. I
sometimes think it will come soon."
" Do not speak thus, I pray you. It is easily got-
ten over, a mere form of law. Your wrongs are so
self-evident. I apprehend no trouble. I will take
the whole management of the business, only promise
me what I ask."
"But it seems so wicked to speak of such a thing.
I am hij wife. I cannot think further than to desire
my freedom from his hateful power.
"I will not press a subject from which I see you
shrink. Dear Belle, perhaps I am hasty. Indeed,
you convince me that I am, and permit me to. say I
respect your scruples, and will forbear to intrude any
further arguments."
The blonde stole a little peep, at his face in adjust-
ing her mouchoir, she feared having said too much for
her purpose., " Thank you," she replied, returning
his hand-squeeze; "and you will not leave me till it is
over ? "
"Leave you! no, indeed. You must accompany
me to Toptown, and the sooner we go the better."
That was precisely Belle's opinion, because her un-
certain renegade of a, husband might take it into his


GHOSTS ON ROLLERS.

blundering head to return at any inopportune mo-
ment, and she sweetly assented to his proposition to
get off early'in the week, only delaying long enough
to receive and set up the costly new furniture she had
purchased for the Folly.
" Ought I not to have a lawyer to attend to the
settlements, or maintenance, or whatever dreadful
word they use ? " asked she, innocently.
"No, madam, I cannot consent that you should
touch a penny of this wretch's money. I have plenty,
and in any event I will make you an equal sharer with
Kitty in my fortune, of whom I hope you will never
lose sight.'
It was a pity, but could not be helped; and Belle
dared not seem anxious to keep the wealth of the
man she was about to cut loose from, however much
she hated to let it slip through her grasping fingers.
Mr., Clayton looked too firm, and, after all, what did
it matter since he could bestow all she desired, and
she very sweetly expressed her thanks, and promised
to be a dear friend and adviser to darling Mignonne,
with tears in her eyes.

CHAPTER XXVII.

YOUNG LOVE AND OLD LOVE.

ISS WALSINGHAM had been absent in
Roaring River, and she heard on her .return
the news of the unexpected arrival and its
attending circumstances.
How Paul Clayton had appeared,.in Mrs. Nickson's
company, and carried off Kitty to dwell at the Folly.
If Carlotta had been the raconteur, I will not answer
for any scathing, comments she might have added
upon the deportment of the two new allies-but I am
proverbially mild, and I contented myself with bare
facts. I also advised Miss Walsingham to pay the
child a visit immediately. I had been twice to the
Folly, but had failed to see her either time, her ex-
cuses being made in the blandest manner by the
affable hostess: "Cherie was practising; ,Mignonne
was putting up ferns." And Mr. Clayton's behavior,

ell       330

v

4


though courteous, was so extremely distant that I
felt myself unwelcome.
The stout lady was quite ready to go-setting out
immediately to see her young : darling, and also,
perhaps, to get a glimpse of her old one, though such
a wish was not confessed to herself. All the way up
she was thinking of him, and the pleasant school-
days, of the sweet-faced boy in roundabouts, the
ruddy youth, the" handsome young man, who had
never loved her, but who had been so precious and
so worthy that she had preferred his memory to any
other love ; and she pulled in her horses with a jerk
when she came, upon Kitty, muffled in a shawl, sit-
ting under a great elm, whose few brown leaves
were whiffling . and whirling on the -high boughs
above her, while she silently dropped great tears,
looking toward the Red Cottage, even as the Israel-
ites wept when they remembered Zion-" when there
was lamentation generally upon the housetops, and
their hearts sounded for Judah like pipes wherein is
no pleasure."  She could discern our chimney-stacks,
and sheltering evergreens, but had been refused pe-
mission to run down and see us for a little while,
sternly refused ; we being represented to Mr. Clay-
ton as arch plotters, and improper advisers for his
daughter.
Why, Kitty, child ! what is the matter?"
Perhaps it was not quite right; yet who can blame
the. little maid, so straightened, hedged about, and
hemmed in as she was, that she impulsively, joy-

333

fully threw herself into the arms of her true friend,
who possessed the sympathy she longed for, the love
she craved, the tenderness she needed, and poured
her complaints, her trials, her sufferings into her
bosom. She climbed eagerly into the car iage and
snuggled close, and spoke in a whisper, half afraid of
what she was doing-afraid that it was disloyalty
to her papa-but wholly unable to keep back the
words which must come and the tears which would
flow.
Miss 'Walsingham listened in amazement. "The
district-school ! nonsense-absurdity ! Is the man
mad? Come with me till I see what he looks like."
"It was not papa, auntie; he did not think of it ;
it was Belle. I cannot blame papa. He asked me
questions I could not answer-he frightened me so-
he thinks I do not know anything-I am not wise-
but I think if he had been a little softer with me, and
she had not been there looking at me so dreadfully,
I could have done better. Oh, auntie, what a pity
she met papa at the hotel! If I could only have seen
him first--oh I am so unhappy !-I don't -know what
to do."
"If that young scapegrace, Archie, had been
worth a dump, I could see my way clear. What is it
that men find in this woman so irresistible ? I don't
consider her charming in the least," grumbled the
stout lady.' "Come along, darling," she added,
aloud. "' Maybe I can straighten some of the tan-
gles;' I'll try, anyhow. Well, who could have fore-

332     YOUNG LOVE AND OLD LOVE.

YOUNG LOVE AND OLD LOVE.

I

r'
-      .
;,,
. __ - ,.
t
,-    ,,,
-. : ,t
,'.
_° L,


UG       VAND OLD LOVE.OUNG LOVE AND OLD

334

seen such a coil as this ? 'Satan came also,' sure
enough."
"-Let me, out, please, auntie; I don't want to go in.
I keep out of the way as, much as I . can-I'd rather
wait here for you. I hope Carlie or some of them
will come ; I think they are cruel to stop away so."
Aunt Elinor gave her her wish, determined to-
bring matters to a crisis with Mrs. Nickson, and put
an end to the sort of persecution Kitty was undergo-
ing. In five minutes' time, the romance of a life was
scattered like chaff before the wind. Usheredinto
the presence of a stoop-shouldered, bald-headed,
yellow-faced person, she looked aghast, trying vainly
to discover any likeness to her young, fresh, fair,
beautiful Paul; and she sourly regarded him as she
propounded her queries.
"You have grown stout, Elinor," said Mr. Clay-
ton, not admiringly.
"Humph, you haven't; but you have grown old ;
I never should have known you--don't know. you
now-there isn't a trace of your youth left."
" You are disposed to be complimentary, I see ;
you always were outspoken, I remember, and time
has evidently not softened that characteristic; years
are tolerably sure to leave marks. I believe I must
own that you resemble little the slender beauty I
used to carry over Bradshaw's brook, and lift from
one mossy stone to another at Petrifying Spring, in.
our bread-and-butter days. I fear I should not dare
attempt the feat now."

" I-ho.pe not. Well ! I feel as if I had been to a
funeral."
"With little Paul for the corpse, I understand-I
buried little Elinor long ago."
"There ! that will suffice ; let by-gones be by-
gones. You are a shrewd business man, I suppose ;
a successful one, I know ; and can grasp a subject
completely. What I want to talk about now is this
school-scheme. I won't hear of Kitty's being shut in
among those rough animals. It is the most ridiculous
project ever originated."
"I cannot agree with you, Elinor. I am deter-
mined to have her make a beginning. She is igno-
rant to a miracle."
"Stuff and nonsense ! She knows plenty. You
jumped at her like a wolf, like a spider ! and fright-
ened her out of her senses. She is intelligent enough
for-a woman, and as good as she is pretty-a daughter
any man might be proud of."
"Perhaps any man might; but I assure you I am
very far from being proud of Miss Kitty; on the con
trary, I am exceedingly disappointed in'her ; she has
neither accomplishments nor learning."
" Why have you not looked after the poor lamb in
all these years, when you have kept yourself nobody
knows where ? and she has wept her silly heart out
over your indifference and neglect, and now you gal-
lop in all at once, and stab her with hard questions,
lock her out of your confidence, and make her life a
burden ! What kind of a father do you call your-
self ? "

I

If

.-

YOUNG LOVE AND OLD LOVE.

335


336     YOUNG LOVE AND OLD LOVE.

A shocking bad one,, Elinor. I've been over that
same ground myself, I acknowledge it. I had a sort
of idea that women grow like roses by the sweet
juices within them ; and I must say I was shocked
by 'the notion that Katrina's daughter could be
faulty and unpleasant, to say nothing 'of ignorance.
You see I am speaking quite freely, as to an -old friend.
I hope it is not too late to remedy the defects and re-
form the faults in my wayward girl's character."
"Paul Clayton, you don't know what you are talk-
ing about. You have evidently had your opinions
premade for you. by one who is no friend to Kitty.
I am not in the habit of decrying my sex to yours ;
but I am going to.speak plainly now. I see quite
clearly what this all means-though I confess I don't
see any object to be gained-it must be pure malice
-devilish wickedness.  I am in Mrs.. Nickson's
house, but I shall not let that hinder my speaking the
truth about her-a dangerous, lying, cheating, tricky,
dishonest creature-who dislikes Kitty, and has
wronged, and distressed, and misused her in a thou-
sand ways, and is doing her best to turn you bitter
toward her.. If you have a spark of wisdom, you will
take your daughter away from her-take yourself
away-don't you know she is a flirt, a Married
Belle?"
"Oh, Miss Walsingham! how delighted I ani to
welcome you at My Folly."
"Your folly, indeed," muttered Aunt Elinor, who
had risen to her feet at the first sound of her hostess'

YOUNG LOVE AND OLD LOVE.
voice ; and almost felt as if she had done wrong in her
plain speaking under this roof.
"I trust we may be excellent neighbors. I am
fortunate, you perceive, in my first guests. I have
been looking for you. I knew you couldn't long stop
away. Such an acquaintance as yours with Mr. Clay-
ton is quite likely to seek renewal. I used to hear
our Roaring River friends say that you were lovers
once-childish lovers-and [With an arch look] I'm
going to tell it all, Miss Walsingham. I know you
won't mind now : they said that Elinor Walsinghani
loved so very dearly Paul Clayton that she refused
everybody else."
" What is your object, Mrs. Nickson, in pouring
out this folly ? " said Aunt Elinor, quite white.
"Oh, nothing ! I had no idea you would care, at
your age. I thought old women outlived all emo-
tions of that sort."
"You are right for once ; they do. I have outlived
any such youthful folly I may have had, entirely."
Mr. Clayton stood silent, while the blonde floated
up to the stout lady, laughing musically, and seized
her hand j she brought her creamy beauty in sharp
contrast with the middle-aged face, settled into lines,
and she rejoiced inly when she saw that he was un-
consciously comparing them in his mind.
"Forgive me," said she, in her most gushing man-
ner ; "it was only a little fun. I did not mean to
tease. I am matronly and sober now, staid and ad-
visable. I have buried youthful follies. I am going
15

:


38     -YOUNG LOVE AND OLD LOVE.
to begin a new life. I. mean~ to make a good man
happy."
Though Aunt Elinor had snatched away her hand,
she did not take her.eyes from those of the hand-
some speaker.  She also felt the magnetic -power
this Lamia exerted-'" this palpitating snake ;" and,
she had half a mind to disbelieve the past, and regard
this lady bright-this full-blown beauty, ripe and ex-
quisite-as an angel of light. It was not till she saw'
Mr. Clayton watching intensely the blonde,drinking
in her words, that she got back all her' senses, and
uneasily felt that there must be more than met the
ear in her smooth speech.
"Belle," exclaimed she, half-sorrowfully, " if you
took half the pains to be, that you squander upon 'to
seem,' what a woman you would make ! I know
what I am saying, Mr. Clayton, quite well. I am no
slanderer. I am able to substantiate all my asser-
tions. I only make them for Kitty's sake-"
Oh, you are speaking of our new plan for Kitty.
I am the instigator of that. I claim the credit, and
I am willing to take a good deal of trouble to perfect
the result. Believe me, you must soon acknowledge
me right."
"Mr. Clayton," continued Aunt Elinor, ignoring
the interruption, "let me have the child. Let me
teach her. Come, I am a lonely woman-I love Kitty
-I'll adopt her ; take her off your hands directly !"
Such a consummation suited not at all the blonde,
Who in her projected future saw great use for a pair

YOUNG LOVE AND OLD LOVE.    339

of willing hands and .ready feet, and had no wish to,
helpKitty to such a life of ease and luxury, and Mr.,
Clayton replied with his eyes upon the enchantress'
face:
"Do not compel me to be rude, Elinor. I cannot
alter my plans, even to please an old friend, although
I heartily thank you."
"That is clever of you, sir. I feared you. might be
tempted to disappoint me of a pleasure I have set my
heart, upon-Cherie's company.- Ah ! by the way;
Miss Walsingham, what do you hear from Mr. Laurie ?
I saw a good deal of him in Toptown; he stopped at
my hotel; he is quite a presentable youth. I rather
entered him on my list of friends."
"I'll see you again, sir," replied Aunt Elinor hur w
riedly, "and give you one more opportunity to prove
yourself '.a man ; of sense and judgment. If I stay
any longer now I shall lose my temper."
Belle's ringing 1augh floated after her as she stalked
away, grumbling, "Well, if anybody had told me I
could ever in my life have such a scold with: Paul
'Clayton, I couldn't have' believed it. Dear, dear !
what a world this is!"
"A very eccentric woman, Mr. Clayton," said the
blonde; "that sort of personality grows out of a sel-
fish life, I suppose, sir, with masculine pursuits. She
rears pigs and calves. I've heard her talk about them
with such-odd language " (he smiled at her lovely, hor-
rified face, wide-open, blue eyes, and thought how
handsome she was, -how complete in womanhood !)


340       YOtUV L0T7 AND OLD LOIE.

I heard her calling me names just now, but I freely
forgive her she was disappointed that I could not f:I
in love with the gawky nephew ; I never could admire
salad greenness.
Kitty was awaiting Aunt Elinor under the tree.
"Don't give up, child," she finished, after announcing
her ill-success. "I'll pull through yet-I've the great-
est mind to carry you off now. Come, jump up and I'll
turn my back on them, and keep you in spite of them."
" Oh na, auntie. I must obey papa; I'm not go=
ing to be unhappy any more if I can help it: I will
do niy best, and -maybe he will see after a while that I
nean to be good, and get to like me."
Aunt Elinor touched up her horses with a short
goodaby she couldn't bear the patient, sorrowful tes-
ignationi of the child, and she drove home full of in-
dignation against Archie, "not worth a dump," and
Paul Clayton who had dared to outgrow his youth and
leave hei. nonee to love."-

ap

CHAPTER XXVIII.
ONE WAS TAKEN, THE OTHER LEFT.
ONDAY niorning came, and Kitty was bidden
to make ready for the district school. She had
also by Belle's directions been habited in a
dark calico dress and check gingham apron, as suitable
apparel, but if the blonde meant to humble or annoy
her by such a choice, shefailed utterly, for the simple,
childish clothing suited her, and she looked as pretty
as a pink. She sat alone in her room, leaning her
face in her hands, waiting for half-past eight, when
she must set off. Nobody can tell how she dreaded
it, but she was quietly trying to make the best of it,
and fully determined to study hard, to please her
father; and as she heard him pacing up and lown his
room opposite, she wished she dared go in and tell him
so, and was fluttering- with the thought,  hen her
door opened and he walked in.
Mr. Clayton, infatuated as he was, had. had some

46s

w


ONE WAS TAKEN, THE OTHER LEFT.    341

hours of sober reflection since Miss Walsingham's visit.
Carlotta also had waylaid the man and persisted in
adding her say-so to that of his old .friend; elabor-
ating her opinions of our darling, her purity and good-
ness ; and really, in going over her conduct he began
to fear that he might have been too severe. He could
not help seeing, that she had been uniformly gentle,
patient, and obedient since his coming, though most of
the time unpleasantly tearful and drooping. In face
of the step he was about to take he had passed a wake-
ful night. The old-time feelings, the habits of a life-
time, would not be thrust aside withoutia final strug-
gle ; the memories of poor Katrina had thronged
around him during the still hours, and some regretful
tenderness for the child she had borne him, some dis-
agreeable, remorseful suggestions, " he had not made
her happy, had shown her no fatherliness," and he
wished to speak a few words before he left her, to let
her know that he did not mean to be harsh or unkind ;
the fact that he desired to do so'secretly, 'might have
proved to hin, if he had been at the trouble to analyze
the impulse, how much and' what sort of power the
Married Belle. had-over him.
Kitty started to her feet at his voice, and after one
look in his eyes, she sprang to hisheart.
" Oh, papa, you will love me," pleaded she. "I
will try so hard to be wise. I am not bad, papa,
believe me ; and I am so lonely. I have got nobody
in the wide world but you, if you will only try to
forgive my faults."

Sitting down, and taking her on his knee, half
ashamed of the fond action, he looked at her, and un-
derstood the still strength which was keeping back her
tears, because she knew he disliked them ; and the pa-
tient smile she showed him, and her beseeching eyes,
were too much : he put his arms around her with a
good, fatherly hug, mentally resolving that whatever
he might do, this child should not be made to suffer
any more. He talked a long time, assuring her of his
love, and real interest, in_ low, kind tones, and his
wishes for her best good, and though she hardly spoke
a word in reply, he left her the happiest girl in the
world. Though he returned to his room and she de-
scended the stairs alone, Belle was astonished at her
beaming face.
It was the appointed day for the Toptown journey,
and the blonde was habited foi a start "pacing si-
lentty about in pale, contented sort of discontent."
Kitty accepted her good-by kiss, and oh ! how glad
she was afterward that she had parted kindly with her!
how devoutly thankful for the reconciliation, and pre-
cious hour she had enjoyed with her papa ! and she
set off to the old sc1 ool-house with a light heart.
As Mr. Clayton had foreseen, the divorce business
was a mere form; what God hath joined together
is put asunder with perfect facility nowadays. And
the instant the judge set eyes upon Mrs. Nickson,
he felt that such beauty, grace, innocence, and sweet-
ness must not remain married to any wretch incapa-
ble of appreciating them, and he gave his decision

342   ONE WAS TAKEN, 'THE OTHER LEFT.


344   NE WAS TAKEN, THE OTfER LEFT
with a flourish and a compliment, and Belle Brandon
was herself again.
There was a long time to wait, and somehow the
blonde felt uncomfortable in the hotel where she had
sat about with Archie Laurie, where she had gotten
a blow from her husband, and she begged for a drive.
Her perfect organization stood her in good stead,
and she threw away the gloom which desired to
enshroud her, the presentiments' of evil; and after a
long drive, a choice dinner, a couple of glasses of
champagne, she was in radiant humor ; whatever
forebodings, doubts, or misgivings the gentleman
had felt, were entertained no longer ; they vanished'
like ugly shadows in the bright presence of this
gifted creature he was going to marry.
The train was late, and the short autumn twilight
was long passed, and the night darkness had long
settled over all objects, before the great red eye of
their speeding engine glared upon Graceville, the last'
station before Merry Bank. Some people entering
the car brought dripping umbrellas and streaming
water-proofs among the passengers, and a general
exclamation, "What a sudden storm!" passed from
mouth to mouth. Flashes of vivid lightning illumi-
nated the landscape just an instant, and left darkness
that might be felt, and heavy rolling thunder pealed
above them. Belle was leaning on Mr. Clayton's
arm with a new sense of security ; he was talking to,
her, picturing a life with her for its queen and glory;
and while she silently listened, perhaps a glimmering

ONE WAS TAKEN, THE OTHER LEFT.       34
desire 'lighted the r cesses of her soul, inhabited by
selfishness, craft, lies, dishonesty, to realize the ex-
pectations of this upright man, to be a good wife to
him, wondering if it were possible. I say perhaps,
because there were interfoldings of Belle 'Brandon's
character I never could safely pronounce upon with
all my careful study; at any rate she looked as sweet
and nice as woman could. Mr. Clayton thought so:
"her opened eyes, where 'he was mirrored small in
Paradise," were as blue as a summer heaven, and her
ripe' lips parted in a contented smile 'showed all the
dimples.
After the train left Graceville, he rose, putting her
gently from him, to look out of an opposite window ;
she followed him with her glance. When he with-
drew his caressing arm, what meant the '-strange
emotion .which passed through her with a chilly
shiver, as if everything true was gone forever, and her
day of grace shut down by throbbing darkness -a
sharp, crashing sound-smote her ears, and before she
could breathe, something fearful tore the car to
atoms; she saw it crushing the seats, splintering'
them to fragments ; she saw it strike Paul Clayton,
dashing him down ; he' fell at her very feet, splash-
ing her with his blood. Everything human around her
was mangled, lacerated, despoiled of God's image,
promiscuously dishonored among rubbish.  In the
universal wail and terrible pang which cleft .the dark-
ness, rising above the storm, quenching the noise of the
rushing train, petrifying the inhabitants of the shut-up


346   ONEL WAS -TAKEN, THE OTHRR LEFT.
houses, she Was alone ! All other souls Were divorced
and fled. Then a terrible arrest, a violent shock, a
grinding, leaping overthrow. The train off the -track
and nothing left but chaos. A loose rail had been
lifted by a stone, and so propped that the revolving
wheel tore it higher and higher, and sent it through
the car.- A discharged workman was tried for the
deed afterward, but as nothing could be proven he
was set loose. Belle let go her hold upon the cross-
bar which she had instinctively clutched, add climbed
out over ghastly things, through pogls of blood yet
warm from human hearts ; she saw many lights, a
crowd surging and swaying ; nobody observed her,
and she stepped away, stumbling on through the
storm.

1

CHAPTER XXIX.
ARCHIE'S CONFESSION.

HE first day in the old school-house was
over, and like the man who, on being asked
how he enjoyed the concert, replied, ' Well,
I didn't suffer as much as I expected" Kitty told
us she had got through quite nicely; told us over
our garden fence, because the prohibition against
visiting us was not removed, and she dutifully
returned to the Folly, feelinga sort of responsibility
there in the absence of its mistress. After conning-
her lessons.(Kitty meant to make thorough work
now), and practising her exercises, she felt tired, and
strolled into the great drawing-room where she had
first seen Archie that fateful evening, standing in the
very spot where she had danced the first quadrille,
and she dropped down upon the soft carpet among
the roses and posies, and she buried herself in her


ARCHIE'S CONFESSION.        349

thoughts so absorbingly that she did not hear the
door-bell, nor the approach of a-step on the thick
piled tapis.
" Kitty," said a well-beloved voice, "Kitty, I
heard that you were alone, but I did not expect to
find you so much alone that I must make my own
way to you like the Prince entering the castle in
search of Lady.Delight; will you rise, and bid me
welcome?"
She sprang up and looked in his eyes. He was
smiling, but rather shamefaced, not to say sheepish;
he' evidently felt the discomfort of his position as
much asthe angriest mistress could desire..
"I have made a great fool of myself, Kitty," said
be, ".a great fool."
"I know it, Archie," she replied frankly.
"Dearest Kitty, how pale you are !"
"4Yes, Archie; I have suffered a good deal since.
you saw me last."
"Did you receive the letter I wrote you up among
the lumbermen? ""
" Yes."
"Why did you not answer it? were you too an-
gry?"
You did not ask me, and I did not feel like forc-
ing a letter upon you.".
"I expected it, though. I looked, and watched,
and waited."S
You should have said so, then ; I never run after
people:."'

a

" Can youforgive my ridiculous folly, Kitty? I
have suffered ; I deserved to suffer, You can never
know the bitter humiliation it was, to be forced to
own such madness as mine. I don't think half so
much of Archie Laurie as I did six months ago."
Kitty made no reply, but moved the toe of her
boot among the petals of a great red poppy in the
carpet, and did not look up either, though her color
flickered and her lips trembled.
"Kitty, I don't deserve any grace ; but be merci-
ful ;,don't cast me off. If you do, Iam afraid I shall
go to the devil-no, I won't say that. I have been
as near to one as I ever mean to come ; but--I wish
you could look at me ; at least, say you'forgive me
before I leave you. You cannot ! I see it; you shrink
from my presence ; well, I can't blame you ; I de-
spise myself. Good-by, Kitty ; dear Kitty.; pre-
cious Kitty; I must say so just once. I won't trou-
ble you any more, but I'll tell you, if you was a poor
fellow who came to me for forgiveness.and consola-
tion, I wouldn't treat you as you treat me : I'd be
kind, and say 'Dear Archie, yes, yes, of course I for-
give you-come here and kiss me directly."
The whole-hearted sorrow, mixed with humor and
bravado, were too much for Kitty, who, burst into a
laugh; " I do forgive you, Archie,"' said she.. "I
forgave you long ago, but "--she faltered again-" I
trusted you so thoroughly.",
" Then' trust me once more and forever.  God
knows I will-neverprove unwrthyiL " He reached out

9
C     ;

348         ARCHIE'S CONFESSION.

l


350         ARCIE'S CONFESSION.RC

his hands, taking a -step towards her ; she laid her
soft-fingers into them, and he. grasped them eagerly,
and she rested her poor tired little head where she-
had thought never to place it again. All the past was
as if it had never been ; fearlessly and fondly she
gave her happiness into his keeping. .
Kitty dear?."
Yes, Archie."
You know the picture you sent me?"
"I did not send it, Archie; did not know you had
it till you wrote me. It was Aunt Elinor did that ; she
wished to recall you to your duty. I felt very bad
when I found it out."
"I suppose so. I felt bad when I got it; I
wouldn't live that time over for anything in this
world."-
".Not even to get forgiven again, Archie?"
" No, ma'am ; I am very happy, but I should be
happier if I had not tripped."
"Oh well, Archie, it-is all past now; I shall. not
think of it any more."
"Thank you, Kitty; I haven't dared kiss the
lovely face; I would not without your permission.
May I kiss it now--may I kiss you ? "
"Yes, Archie,,you may ; " she raised her head and
looked-trustingly into his eyes. " There ! " she said,
smiling; "now you are Prince Almanazar."
"Now you are my Lady Delight."
Neither spoke for a moment, but Kitty put her
hands withinhis strong arm, her support from this

time, and clasped them contentedly, leaning against
his shoulder.
"Kitty!"
"Well, Archie!"
"Do you mind because my hair won't curl?"
She laughed one of her old merry, ringing melo-
dies-soon checking herself, though. "But, Archie,
I have a great deal to tell you. My papa is here."
" I know all about it, dearest. This is Mrs. Nick-
son's house; I hated to enter it, but I heard that you
were alone. Carlotta told me, and bid me come di-
rectly and make my peace. I am glad I found you
in this very spot, because I nearly know you were
thinking about me ; honest, now, weren't you ?"
"Of course I was ; I remembered how you kicked
up your heels in that polka.  But, Archien my
papa-"
"Yes, darling, I know ; he has gone to Toptown
with Belle to get a divorce, and he means ,to marry
her. I 'am glad to take you away from them. I
ani going to give up the law ; I don't like it ; it brings
too many knaves and fools about me. I feel as if I
had been in shocking bad company ; and I'm going
to settle down on Aunt Elinor's farm, and make a
career where there won't be a dirty taste all the while
in my mouth. I've talked it all over with her this
evening, and she is just pleased."
" Oh Archie, a divorce ! 'interrupted Kitty, as pale
as a ghost-she had heard nothing else of all he was
saying-" and to marry Belle Brandon! '.'

4
f
!
4
4
.j
y
i
.   .
iF   _

ARCHIE'S CONFESSION         30
,r


352         AR CHr'S CONFESSION.
Yes, darling; you may ,as well look it in the
face ; it's coming as sure as fate. I don't blame her
for wishing to be free ; that Nickson is a nasty scamp.
I can't think of her becoming a tyrant to my little
Kitty, though; you must promise not to let them,
separate you frmn me."
"'I could never disobey papa, Archie ;I don't think
he will object:;'he was too good this morning. I have
felt very unhappy. I thought he did not care for me
at all,; I know better now ; I've had a talk with him.
I shall never be afraid of him again."
"He is under the influence of a dreadful woman;,
he cannot, see things as, they are, but only as she
shows them to him. Don't-I know all about that?"
said Archie, grimly. "The .quickest way to disen-
chant him will be to let him go ahead and marry
her."
"Oh, Archie! I hope nothing so terrible as that
will ever happen. Poor papa ! he is only just begin-
ning to he nice to me; and she will make him cross
if she can-'
Don't let's think about it this evening , Kitty;
let's be happy; it is my private opinion that she,
won't be Mrs. Clayton very long anyhow, There
will be another divorce case in court. Perhaps some
kind providence may stop it; don't borrow trouble.
Come! when shall we two be made one? I am all
ready to settle down. Auntie is impatient. Let's'
get married when Carlotta does."
While they were pacing slowly back and forth

ARC HIE'S CONFESSION.

:1

through the length of the great room, who should
walk in but the house-master, Mr. Nickson. He had
on his overcoat, and a slouched hat from which the
water dripped in little rivulets, and carried in his
bony hand a stout riding-whip, with which he im-
patiently, almost savagely, beat the air as, he ap-
proached. For a wonder he was perfectly sober ;
but there was a sense of still excitement over him-
a cruel, vindictive look in his haggard face-t dan-
gerous savageness.
" You ! in my house, Mr. Archie  aurie ! (e n-
found your impudence,") he mutt ed under s
breath ; "waiting to see the madam, I suppose !"
"No, sir," answered Archie, ignoring the inso
lence of his manner, and pausing in front of him with
Kitty on his arm, who shrank fearfully away; "I am
conversing with my affianced syife, who was brought
here by her father. Permit me to present you! "
"Ah, Miss Kitty! she. is an old flame of mine !
Wasn't you, my little dear? I congratulate you-
upon my soul I do. I wish everybody vyas as lucky.
I am glad you are here, both of you. I just as lives
have witnesses. I expect a lady soon-Mrs. Nickson
that was-Miss Brandon that is!"
He struck out with the lithe whip, and laughed so
discordantly, that Archie felt that it would be a -pity
if a defenceless woman should have come into his
power in that mood, and was-glad he was there ; and
wondered how he heard the news, and if Belle would
return alone or in Mr. Clayton's company.

,r


354        AlRCHIE'S CONFESSION.

ARCHIE'S CONFESSION.        355

Folks think they have stole a march on me ; but,
Lord bless you, I've been watching.; I could have
stopped the game if I'd a wanted----"
A slight noise made them turn, and Belle was stand-
ing alone upon the threshold. Her dark dress was
drabbled with mud, her hat crushed and-broken, and
dripping with Water, and her face splashed with
blood-stains, her eyes hollow, and her lips colorless.
What are you- here for, madam ? How dare
you enter my house !"
" I have come home ! " she replied, in a still, faint
voice ; "home to rest! I am very weary."
"Rest here ! you? No, by Judas! not an hour-
not a minute-a divorced thing! You have cut loose
from me ! glad of it ; saves me the trouble and ex-
pense. I am tired to death of the sight of you.  It
was the plumiest thing you ever did. Your new lover
is waiting outside, I suppose ; go find him.. I wish
him joy of you ; go ! Do you hear'? before I do you
a mischief.. It's my turn now. Doyou think I shall
ever forget the trick you served me? how you made
me.a laughing-stock--eh ? How I hate you ! Come!'
tramp! get out of this ! You may thank these
friends, if you ever get off without the beating you
deserve.".
"I will not stir out again in this storm ! You do
not know to whom you ; are talking. I have been
through a terrible scene ; as soon as the morning
comes I wish to :go.  I must rest. I must think..
I must prepare."  She passed her bloody. hand

across her forehead, and staggering, leaned against
the ivall. " I am ill."
''No,'you don't. I know all your tricks. If you
was dying you should go. Do you suppose I'could
ever feel any pity for you? My best wish for you is
that you may rot on a dunghill ! I've had three
styles of wives ; and you are the most abominable of
the whole ! Now I'm going to get a good, steady
woman to- keep my house, save my money, and
make me comfortable in my old age. Do you see
the door ? "
Out in this storm ! I will not be driven out ! I
tell you I am too ill to stand. Keep your hands off !
Oh!" 
" Mr. Nickson ! " exclaimed Archie, stepping for-
ward, "do not ! something fearful has occurred ;
see ! your wife's face is streaked.with blood."  .
"Blood ! there will be more blood ! " shouted the
furious man. A sharp blow had fallen upon the
creamy fleshs-another and another. Archie used all
his strength to overpower the raging devil, who held
the defenceless woman in his grasp, and to wrench
away his whip. The three-struggled on through the
great hall, whose door stood wide open, and into
which was beating the fierce rain, borne on wild,
wailing wind-gusts. The helpless beauty ceased to
struggle, and was pushed passively out; and Archie,
trying to undo the ferocious clutch which gripped her
so fast that. the horny hands bruised and tore the
tender flesh, stumbled on the brink of the broad

Jr.


1'

356

ARCHIE'S CONFESSION.

staircase leading upon the lawn, and narrowly es-
caped. plunging down with the banker and the
blonde, who fell from the top to the bottom in a
mad plunge. When Archie picked himself up with
a cut in his forehead from the sharp post which had
stopped him, he felt dizzy ; and he heard a musical,
terrible laugh, which rung piercingly on the air,
swept toward him by the blast; and then came a
stillness like: the grave. The heavy portal slammed
together ; : and Archie vainly tried to undo the
spring-lock which barred him from poor Kitty, alone.
inside with all this horror. A persistent pull of the
bell brought a shared servant at last, who peered fear-
fully out. He pushed pastier, and rushing forward,
he found Kitty unconscious on the floor. Pressing
the white-lipped female into his service, he carried
her to her room and left her, while he set out to
search for the others.- -The banker was stretched
helpless upon the flags, completely stunned, but no
bones broken; and after a. good deal of effort, was
gotten to his apartment, from which he did not go
out for many weeks.
All search for the blonde was vain. Archie pro-
cured a lantern and looked up and down everywhere.
As he was slowly seeking through the avenue, flash-
ing his light hither and thither, he came'upon a sight
which stopped his heart-beats. Upon the gravel,
"-cirque-couchant, sat a palpitating snake of dazzling
hue, sapphire green and amethyst," her crested
head raised proudly in the midst of her graceful coils,

ARCIZIE'S CONFESSION.

357

r
,
r
i
a          ,
4
5
d
T
%.
C
i
S
.: Yt
x
2:             i
[t
rt
r""r,
:
4
4'           }
.f
it
F
' $         r
eul+rs
.

i

i

and her eyes, he would have sworn as he bent, and
closely held his light, that her eyes were blue as tem-
pered steel. While he looked, motionless, she low-
ered her luminous crest and slowly undulated in wavy
glides. out of his sight, among the dead leaves ; and
was it imagination ? or did he really hear, borne on
the night wind, that musical, terrible laugh, clear, ring-
ing, and penetratingly vibrant:? and he lifted from the
ground the necklace of golden scales which the Mar-
ried Belle had clasped around her white throat that
very morning.
The next day Aunt Elinor came, and 'carried off
Kitty, and broke to her the terrible news. I will not
dwell on her sufferings, which she bore with the uii-
derlying, composed power that sort of womanhood is
apt to bring to the inevitable, and she often went
over the last hour with her father, getting great com-'
fort from its lovingness.

a        T_
Fem.
A 1


GOODBY TO ALL.

CHAPTER THE LAST.
GOOD-BY TO ALL.
RCHIE LAURIE made an excellent farmer,
but not a better than Pitkin Sterling. We
had a double wedding at the Red Cottage.
Mrs. .Pillhackle, Mrs. Rotterdam, and others, made
remarks about Kitty's tting married in mourning.,
Mrs. Ramble, for o ce, was on our side, whether
from genuine goo  eeling for Kitty (she always did
like the child), or certain looking forward to good
things to be borrowed, or long visits- when she
couldn't "stay a second hardly," I can't determine.
At any rate, she was the only one of the; three who
was present at the ceremony, and she stayed not for
an invitation, but came promiscuously, and there were
tears in her red eyes when she went up- and kissed
our brides, one of whom came down in a dress of
crape like wrinkled cream, and the other in lustrous

satin. Carlotta always said no other fabric should
enrobe her for her bridal. Though there was little
merriment among us, we were sedately happy.
Mr. and Mrs. Sterling purchased the Folly, which
they rechristened "Scotch Roses," with the farms
belonging; and we did not lose. them. Carlotta is
a more ardent Huishite than ever, and her banks are
hummi ng with bees.
Of course these occurrences were the talk of the
town for a while, and some fierce opinions were in-
terchanged, till a runaway match took up public at-
tention, and we dropped back into primeval ob-
scurity.
If any of my readers desire to hear more of Belle
Brandon, I will chronicle the fact that Carlotta and
Kitty met her once afterward at the St. James. She
was sitting at table with a gentleman; she was not
married, because her- maiden name was on the regis-
ter. If she saw them, she made no sign ; and though
her beauty was faded and paled, she evidently forgot
that her charming dimples had elongated into wrin-
kles, and still smiled to show them off; and though
streaks of gray had mingled with her blonde, curls,
she still practised the artless toss, and continued her
plotting and scheming to secure a husband,
THE END.

I   i/
v
-

3t9g

$   1
. ,r,  r
z ',
.,.
.;:
-,   -
-,  ,
s
e      y    t
a
'h -
: ,;  '
"  r"   5
2 $    i
._  f
.
- L.
}
,'+ -


  
             
         
       
   
