
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The Mysteries and Miseries of San Francisco .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7315
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The mysteries and miseries of San Francisco 
            
               i'

SAN FRANCISCO.
BY A OAL'ORNIAN.

iNOWNe UP ALL. m  TAWOt'suseIAOras AND WOTA   mUatas, ( o 3 Or us
A    sow L0a) THAT MiAVI Wrana IN SAN FRANCICO
SIOUITS SUTTLllENT.

-JA

NEW-YORK:
QARRETT &amp; 00., PUBLJBIISER8,
No. 18 ANN-STasar.

i
fi     t
,t
n.  y
4 i
' 4
a
.    ;
I
k      ;{
°.
dr;

m - .. - - - - -lowim"Illwo

THE
MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
OF

.z
E
.#
r}
t
f
1
      (
_t
4j
Y       ;£'
A
,  s
'a, 4
S
Y ,       t
t            a
u    . .    I
'     } a   §
S
.     , , z      '      +,k
,.        M .


I

33

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1853, by
GABR ET-T       &amp;   CO.,
Inthe Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of N&amp;   rk.

f
-
.
______ _
;
t,,
-
i           d        C;
!  ti
4 t
.(
a  '  i"  '         i   .,
..,  ._  S"

CHAPTER I.
The Alarm-The Flaines-The Ladder.
SAN FuANoIsco, on the marge of the
sea, with towering hills behind her, lay
basking in the sun like a serpent by the
side of a rock.
The dwellings of the more fortunate
classes loomed pleasantly on the side of
the large round hills in the distance, and
might with the aid of a little fancy, have
been metamorphosed into the castellated
domains of . the feudal barons whose
reign succeeded that of absolute barbar-
ism in Europe. Those quiet dwellings
amid the solitude of nature, present a
vivid contrast to the stirring scenes of

the town below, and accordingly all who
possess taste and the means of gratify-
ing it, rear a building among the hills
to which they can retire, after the fat-
igues of the day, and solace themselves
with the comforts of domestic retiracy,
and the grand simplicity of nature.
In giving a coup d'wiel at the scene,
from the city itself, one is struck by the
pointed roof rising above a range of hills
which lie to the south west of the noble
harbor, and which crowns a dark pile
that, on a nearer approach, seems to
lean against the side of a mountain upon
whose peak linger the last beams of the
setting sun. This extensive edifice is
the dwelling or homestead of the wealthy

'
4
t
f
r '
i
t
b
e
r

OF

NFRANCISCO.

I

-   ,
.


8                     MYSTERIES .A
and far-famed Senor de Castro, an old,
resident of the country, and one of the
proudest of the ancient lords of the soil.
Ilis horses are the best, his table the
most sumptuous, and his servants the
most numerous of any ranchero in the
regions round about California.
It was early on one afternoon in June,
18-, that several young men, mostly
Americans, were conversing around a
table in one of the principle Caffes in
ne young city of San Francisco; a stout
robust man nearly forty years of age,
and dressed partly in the English style
and partly in that of the country, with
leggings and heavy blunt spurs,. and a
red sash about his middle, was discuss-
ing the merit of the auguadent sold in
Santiago, -a city of Chille, and having
become very eloquent on this important
topic, he' set down his glass upon the
table so violently as to shatter it to
atoms.
'Give me : your good old-fashioned
horn tumbler,' cried he, with an oath,
'and leave these baby-toys to the women
and children !'
You like to take your liquor in a
horn ' said a young American clerk to
a provision dealer, 'now I prefer a glass,
if it were only for the cleanliness of the
thing,

Yes, by the mass!
Give me a glan,
To toast a lass.
In horns should never be.
Remembered when
We married men
Quaffdenty or cheek thee.'
'You married menP exclaimed the
stouter disputant, laughing.
£A marriage extempore,' muttered a
saturnine  young   American, with     an
enormous bead' of black hair.    'When
are you going to send that little girl
back to her mother?'

FRA N tiDA  OC

ND MISERIES

'Silence, Pothook !' cried the other,
'you know that you would have given
all the old shoes in your locker to have
got one smile from her, yourself'-
'Yes, envious Pothook," cried anoth-
er youth, whose accent betrayed the
Cockney, 'if Cardwell has a notion to
settle down in the calm of domestic life,
and '-
' Settle ! Ten thousand blunderbus-
ses!' laughed the stout man, 'When did
you ever know Cardwell to settle any-
thing but his grog bills-them's the set-
tlements he is most accustomed to.'
'But I mean," added the Cockney;
' that he is not running around after
every pretty face like-like some people,
always excepting the present honorable
company, as a matter of course.'
' Oh ! of course!' said Pothook feel-
ingly.
'Yet," remarked a tall, pale young
man, who seemed to have recovered from
some dangerous illness-' Yet, let me
tell you that Cardwell is not so innocent
after all, as he seems to be. I saw him,
the other day, stand for half an hour,
looking up at a certain house in Clay.
street with all the eyes in his head, and
meaning no offence to the gentleman,, I
don't by any manner of means dispute
his taste.'
Oh ! the young villain' cried the
stout man, roaring with laughter.
In the midst of his jollity and noisy
voeiferations, a young fellow from ' the
States' who had been silent until then,
demurely asked-' Do any of you know
what is good for rats?'
This made the stout man laugh still
louder-' You had better enquire what
is bad for rats,' said he at length ; ' for
to judge by their sleek hides and plump
bellies, I should think they had already

had enough that was good and wholesom
-perdition catch the born devils! Las
night, about an hour before morning '-
the speaker stopped, as the sound of a bel
rang violently, and the cry of ' fire' a
once arose in the streets.
'Never mind, go'yon I' said the Cock
ney.
'Never mind the bell,' said Cardwell
'We can't be disturbed in our pleasures
by these domestic affairs.'
'Why, by the noise,' said the stout
man, 'it would appear that there was a
polite invitation given to all citizens that
their presence might be required in the
adjoining streets, and as the wind is com-
ing up fresh
'There is no time to be lost, my good
fellows !' cried a tall, elegantly formed
youth, rushing into the apartment from
an adjoining room. Half the city is in
flames!'
So saying, the youth hastened away,
followed by the revellers.
The whole town was in an uproar. As
they gained the street, they were met by
the strong sea breeze that filled the air
with dust, and betokened no good to
those whose property was at that mo-
ment encircled by the flames.
The- Sansome Truck Company, with
their hooks and ladders, were rushing
by, their scarlet coats powdered with
dust, and making the iwelkin ring with
their shouts. The elegant youth of whom
we have spoken was one of the first that
reached the fire. Already was the house
of Senor del Castro completely enveloped
by sheets of flame, and from the windows
of some of the adjoining buildings the
streams of fire -darted forth, and moved
swiftly off toward the South on the wings
of the gale.
Several persons, among whom were

e Cardwell, and the stout man of the cafe,
t busied themselves in tearing up the
- planks in the immediate vicinity of the
l conflagration, for the streets being laid
t down with plank, instead of stones, aid
greatly in the spread of the flames. The
- firemen, had brought streams of water
to bear on the principal building, when
suddenly there appeared at an upper
window, a fair and youthful female form,
evidently belonging to one of the higher
t classes of the country, whose dark hair
fell in rich masses about her shoulders,
and partly concealed a face in which the
snow and the rose contended for mae-
tery.
For an instant every one paused in
astonishment, nor was her overmastering
beauty unheeded in that moment of
fearful excitement; for the cry that a
woman was in the house now rose shrilly
on the air, and was echoed in every
street in the city. The ladders were
hurried to the spot by men frantic in
their hasto to save so fair a specimen of
mortality from 'a dreadful death, while
the object of all this interest, the lovely
cause of the wild confusion that pervaded
the masses below, simply placed one
little white hand to her eyes as if to shut
out the sight of the surrounding horrors,
and steadied herself with the other by
placing it on the sill of the window.
In the moment that the ladder was
placed against the side of the house, a
shrill cry was heard in the rear of the
firemen, and a stately form was seen forc-
ing itself through the throng with giant
strides, and thrusting aside e erybody
and everything which opposed its pro-
gress. One glance was suaficient to con-
vince the spectators that the father of
the imperrilled girl was rushing to her
rescue. His hat was gone, and his dark


10                    MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
but silvered leeks floated on the breeze, way up the ladder. All eyes were now
the sweat stood in beads upon his broad fixed on the adventurer. For a moment
forehead, and his face, though bearded all seemed silent except the hysteric
and mustachoied according to the custom wailings of the anguished father, and
of the country, was pale with anxiety the awful roaring of the flames, as the
and horror.                         wind swept through every aperture of
'Oh, for the love of God !' cried he, the building, and- aded ten-fold to the
*my daughter ! my daughter!'       fury of the conflagration.
As he reached the front of the build- Before Monteagle had reached the
ing, the flames gushing from the lower lower sill of the window, he was discov
windows drove back the brave men who ered to be on fire ; but at almost the
had charge of the :ladder. The Senor same instant, a stream of water from
del Castro clasped his hands, and utter- the pipe of an engine drenched him to
ing a cry of despair, would have rushed the skin. Then both the youth and the
into the house, the lower part of which girl were entirely hidden from view by
was completely filled with flames. The the rolling forth of a dense volume of
stout man of the cafe threw himself smoke streaked with flame. One cry-
upon the distracted father, and by the one general cry of despair burst from
timely aid of Cardwell and the Cockney, the throng below, and the Senor, not
succeeded in dragging him out of the- -doubting that both his daughter and her
reach of danger. But the fire com deliverer had perished, gave a deep groan
panics had not been idle while these and sunk senseless to the earth. But
events were transpiring.  They had loud rose the voice of Charley upon the
brought the ladder to the building 'ataiathewflcss--Tyaraiv
another place. They had placedit firm- air at the awful crihsis- They are aive
ly against the-side of. the:house, when a -yet) Don't be frightened, man, I feel the
man, addressing an oflicor of the Fire weight of both of them on my shoulders,
Department,-exclaimed ina tone of des- now-now-the ladder shakes! they are
pair, ' Oh, my God ! Charley, the ladder coming down !'
is too short It don't reach anywhere  Several men with large ponchos were
near the window.!'                  crowded around the bottom of the lad-
der to smother the flames, in case the
.Quicker than thought, Charley placed   ldshudbonfr,            wa
himself in front of the window at which young lady should be on fire, by wrap-
the girl stood, and bade them place the pIng her tightly in these ample garments,
feet of the ladder on his-shoulders. In and they looked up on hearing the cheer-
an ifatant, this was done, one foot of the ful exclamations of Charley. The feet
ldder resting on each of his shoulders, and legs of a man were discerned below
Thelegaut youth of the cafe then the smoke that had enveloped the upper
sprang forward-                     part of the ladder, then the bottom of a
That's right, Monteagle,' cried Char- lady's robe, and finally the face of Mont-
ley; 'climb right up by me and then on eagle begrimed and blistered looked.
the leader; brig down the youngay down upon the trembling expeetants.
or never live to tell of yourfailure.' The head of the girl reclined on the
* Dut liefore these words had been fair- shoulder of the gallant youth, her black'
ly uttered, the daring youth was half hair flowing down his back, while her

OFA N FRA N TCr

arms hung listless by his uides-she wa
in a state of insensibility..
As soon as Monteagle and his lovely
burthen were within reach of the multi
tude a dozen hands grasped them, an
while the friends of the youth bore himn
off on their shoulders to administer suci
healing remedies as his case required, fo
a part of his hair-his heavy brownie
locks-was burnt off, and a blister on
his forehead showed too plainly that a
moment longer would have consigned
both the young lady and her deliverer to
the realm from which no returning
spirit has come back to describe the final
parting of the soul from its material en-
velope.
The girl herself was carried to the
arms of her father, who, just awaking
from his swoon, cried in a gasping voice
'Inez ! Inez ! where is my Inez ?' and
plucking a sharp-pointed dagger from his
breast, he was about to end his agony by
thrusting it to the hilt in his heart.
Quicker than lightning, the man who
was called Charley grasped the wrist of
the desperate man, and holding it like a
vice in his -stalwart grasp, pointed with
the other hand to the girl, and said in his
rough masculine voice :
I 'None of that ! If I'd thought you
would take it so-hard that we had saved'
your daughter's life, but we would have
-no, not that exactly, for she's worth
saving on her 6wn account!'
While Charley was delivering this
speech, the cinders were raining down
on his head, and be shook them off as a
lion would have shaken great flies from
his forehead, but others were not so in-
sensible to a shower of fire-brands, and
the Senor was dragged farther from the
scene of ruin.
When the senor perceived that his

s Inez was really by his side, ho gave vent
to the most extravagant exclamation of
y joy. Rushing to the Chief Engineer,
- whom he supposed to be the savior of
d his child, he clasped the sturdy fireman
a in his arms, called him every name that-
h is flattering to the pride of man, emptied
r his pockets of all his gold, and tried to
force into his hands a precious ring that
he wore on his finger, and which was
said to contain a diamond of great value.
Charley said that his duty called him
elsewhere, and we next saw him plung-
ing into the thickest of the throng to
bring up his forces to the principal point
of attack, and to expedite the tearing
up of the planks on the street, for they
had become thoroughly ignited in some
places, and the flames were marching
through the slight wooden buildings of
the town with the imperious step of a
conqueror.
No sooner had the young lady recov-
vered consciousness, than she raised her-
self to her feet, avid looked anxiously
on every. side as if in search of some
object which she could not find.
' Here eomes your father,' said Card-
well, who had been the most officious in
bearing off the girl to a place ofs
and applying cold water and other roe-
toratives to her face and temples.
Ines took the band of her father, but
still her eyes wandered through the
throng as if seeking another, and while
she was led away by the old Senor, she
walked listlessly and thoughtfully, as if
something pressed heavily upon her
mind.
By this time every gambling-house,
every drinking shop, every pulperee, and
every theiving den had poured out its
crowds upon the streets of San Francis
co, and a vast proportion of the inhab-


12

j
i
r
f ,
{
t
i
}
t      i
i      ,

tl
g
Of
st
ti
e4
Im
t4
e
t
t
v
o
t
f

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

nts of the city were thronging around street, the Cockney mentioned at the
e scene of conflagration. Here was a commencement of this narrative saw a
ang of thieves pretending to be very fellow hugging to his bosom a little iron
vicious in removing the goods from a safe, and stealthily escaping under cover
ore-house that had just kindled, while of the smoke, along the street towards
he eager glancing of their eyes, and the the harbor.
aif-shy, half-brazen way they shout. , He raised the cry of 'Stop thief!
d to each other, by way of encourage- Picaroon! Coquin/!' and in as many
sent to preserve and to hasten the work, other languages as he could bring to his
efficiently denoted that they had come aid, he gave the alarm to such individu-
o purloin whenever an opportunity offer- als as were within the reach of his voice.
d, and that their zeal was merely in- The merchants themselves who were near
ended to blind the eyes of others, and the spot, joined in the chase, and inless
all suspicion in regard to their ulterior than two minutes more than a hundred
purposes; and it would seem  that no persons were at the heels, of the man
ack of opportunity was here, for such with the safe. - He headed directly for
was the excitement, such was the confa- the water, and had nearly reached it,
ion, the tumbling of men upon others, when a couple of Chinamen in blue nan-
he running hither and thither, the cries keens threw themselves across his path.
f alarm and distress, the shriek of the The desperate wretch dashed the iron
wind, and the roaring of the flames as safe into the face ,of one of them, still
hey went leaping, darting, and whirling retaining hold of it, however, and he fell-
from house to house, from corner to cor- covered with blood, and then, with one
ier, and from street to street, that the hand, the thief grasped the long cue of
cautious thief whose heart was marbled the other and jerked him to the ground,
against human sufferings, and thought He then darted forward again, leaving
only of turning the disasters of others the two disastered Fee-fo-fums sitting
to his own advantage, might carry on his upright in the middle of the street, and
nefarious trade with almost as much im- uttering the most doleful lamentations.
unit as that of the burrowing mole, Amain the crowd came sweeping down to
who treasures his stolen grain under the the water's edge, tumbling the two China-
earth while the plain above is rent by men over and over, who cried out most
the tempest's fury.                  piteously -while rolling-in the dust under
Yet, even in the general whirl of rea- the feet of the pursuers. The thief per-
son and reflection attendant upon these ceiving no way of escape on the land,
rapid conflagrations, there sometimes sprang into a skiff and pushed off from
cbances to be an eye unengaged for a the shore. For a moment, his foes stood
moment which may light upon the plun- panting on the shore like baffled tigers,
deer in the very nick,of time, and when eyeing the man as with two small oars
least expected by himself., Such was he ploughed through the waves and re-
the case now, just a °the flames had ceded farther andfarther from the strand.
reached Montgomery street, and were At length a loud hail was heard from a
reaching forth their long red tongues to- point farther down, some three hundred
wards the pile of stores on Jackson yards from the spot where the pursuers

18

were clustered, and on turning their eyes
in that direction, the crowd beheld a
slender but well-formed youth tugging
at a heavy boat, which lay partly on the
shore and partly in the water, and vain-
ly endeavoring to get it afloat.
With a yell that rang on the air like
the onset cry of a troop of wild Indians,
the whole body of pursuers ran towards
the boat.
' Hah! Monteagle, is that you 'P cried
our Cockney, who arrived first at the
spot-' It was I who gave the alarm!
How much is there in the safe'?' ' That
is best known to my employers,' return-
ed Monteagle evasively, 'enough, .you
may be sure, to warrant the most vigor-
ous endeavors in getting it into our
hands. Those who take the thief will
be well rewarded.'
' Come then ! heave 0! heave, ahoi !'
cried three or four lusty fellows who had
now come up, and applied their shoulders
to the boat in goqd earnest. It. began
to move, and as it finally slid roaring in-
to the waves, Monteagle, and a dozen
others leaped on board. A few strokes
of their long oars cleared them from the
beach and gave free play to their motions
as they sunk the blades of their oars
deep into the brine, and threw themselves
far back at every stroke ; a movement
which to the practised eye of the mari-
ner at once announced that whatever
experience they might previously have
had in this line, was not in the service
of the nation, but had been acquired in
the pursuit of that marvellous fish which
swallowed Jonah.

seetoproceed from the bottom of
The-winds were unusually violent the abdomen, while his heavy goggle eyes
that afternoon, and the water was very seemed to be thinking of something al
rough. This circumstance was much in together foreign from the subject, and
favor of the large boat, and although the continual working of his enorinoug
the robber was a powerful man, and ex- mouth led Monteagle to say to himself

MYSTERIES ANIP MISRIES

ertod his utmost, yet his pursuers oa-
tinually gained upon him. He was ob-
liged to stop a few moments to bail out
his skiff, using one of his boots for that
purpose; and this fact at once convinced
Monteagle and his men that he labored
under great disadvantages in a sharp,
combing sea such as was then driving
into the harbor. before the screaming
gale. The thief himself seemed to give
up all hope of escape and relaxed his
efforts, no doubt husbanding his strength
for exertions of a different character.
' Now, my brave fellows,' cried Mont-
eagle, 'lay back and give it to her ! do
your prettiest and you can make the old
barge hum, and we'll soon come up with
that picaroon yonder; and understand
that I am authorized to promise a high
reward.'
'Oh, never mind the reward,' inter-
rupted a stout Irishman, magnanimous-
ly. 'It's for the pure honor of the thing
that we are working, sure, and to sup-
port the laws.'
Yes, to support the aws!' cried a
short, stout, red-faced fellow, of such
equivocal appearance, that one might have
taken him for a beardless youth or a man
of sixty years, for a native or a foreigner,
a cunning knave or a natural fool. H
carried an enormous head on his broad
round shoulders, upon which were only
a few scattering hemp-like hairs, but his
cheeks were fat and smooth, and his eyeu
always seemed ready to roll out of their
sockets.
' Yes, to support the laws P said the
strange being, in a smothered tone that

I(i

1,
i .
t
j
1
tif+
i '
i
}+
$L }
i
tE
¢a
ay
i

i
''
ri
,


Ii
III
ftt

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

is
;,
i
i "
k
i;
;
,,
,
i!
jig
({
11
;

MYSTERIES AND      MISERIES
that the fellow was 'chewing the cud of it down lustily on the heads and backs of
sweet and bitter fancy.'            his adversaries in the barge.
But now they were within two oars'  The diversion which had been made in
length of the villain in the skiff,-when favor of the robber, plainly announced
the later ceased rowing, and starting up- that the Irishman and the big head were
on his feet, brandished one of his oars in accomplices of the former, and had en-
the air as if it had been the mace of an tered the barge and joined the pursuit
ancient knight, and -rieked out in a in order to render him efficient aid in
tone of fury, that he 'would dash in the time of need.
skull of any man that laid a flipper on The fight became general. Big Head
im !and the Irishman fully engaged the at-
A  Monteagle stood up in the head of tention of Monteagle and two men of
the.boat, this threat might be considered the barge's crew, while therobber, deter-
a matter more directly appertaining to mined not to be taken alive, fought with
himself than to any other person pres - a desperation igot to be imagined by any
ent. Yet, every one uttered a shout of who have never seen a man resolved up-
defiance, and half a dozen strokes brought on death or escape.
the bare up to the skiff. The head of  'Blast me ' cried the Cockney, 'but
the large boat struck the skiff a-mid- these Sydney ducks are hatched out in
ships auare off and on, and for the wrong nest,' as he received a kick in
an instant it seemed as if the latter the face froa Big Head while the latter
would have turned bottom   up. The was struggling under a thwart and using
balanced his boat well, at both hands and feet to defend himself
Thief, however;blndhsboat welle at
the same instant that he struck ater- against the loyal portion of the barge's
h  le  blow m w th  h   oa r uc    t e e d o crew .  This  m elee  had  lasted  om e etim e,
tible blow with his oar at the hefall during which the pistol of Monteagle
intoar, by jumping dexterously aside had passed into the hands of the big
oa, aty   smemg oetrewly asid  ishman, who falling a second- time
and, atote same . moment, hrew from the effects of a chance blow deal
pistol fromby his accomplice in the skiff, posted
die was surprsed by a powerful blow the weapon at Monteagle as he fell, and
pA the sidetof his head which came from pulled the trigger. The charge took
bhind  Turning his hbeadhe saw the effect on the youth; everything  grew
g Irishman who had so gallantly dis- suddenly dark around him, and he fell
clained, all intei-ested motive with both senseless into the. bottom of the boat.
Asta double and ready to repeat the blow The battleshowever, was still waged with
which had nearly deprived him of recol' 'elentle iury on both sides. The rob-
legti~n    e This, however, lasted but .an b  eedby thehope of fial victory,
sat i for all was confusion now. The now spirang iorn his skiff into-the barge,
Tishman was choked down by uan- and stamping on the head of Monteagle
fish eooptr; the man with the big head as he lay insenaible under the thwarts,
age wide mouth canme to the aid of the he used his oar, now broken intoi d on-
eeian, while the robber in the skiff veent shape and size, about the heads
d4sbed his oar into the-faces and brought of his enemies. To say that blood flow-
ed, would be nothing new, as there- was

scarcely a man in the boat who had not
received a wound already ; but now
heads and arms were broken ; sometimes
Big Head and the Irishman were both
down at a time, and then victory.seemed
certain to the loyal party; then the for-
mer would be up again and fighting des-
perately. But three men against eight
or nine could not hold out forever, and
the big Irishman, at length, reeled and
sank, overcome by fatigue and loss of
blood. Big Head was then silenced by
a rap on the skull with a tiller, and after
a most desperate resistance, the robber-
himself was bound hand and foot.
The crew then sat down to take breath,
and next proceeded to wash the blood
from their faces. On their way to the
shore they were met by another boat
that had put off to their assistance, and
in her was recognized Mr. Vandewater,
one of the firm that had been robbed.
'Where's Monteagle?' was the first
enq'.uiry of this gentlemen as the two
boats met.
The boat's crew started and looked
about them, discovered the youth lying
senseless . in' the bottom of the boat.
Smarting under their own wounds, and
hot with the late contest, they had en-
tirely forgotten the lad who led the
charge. ' Oh 1' said the Cockney, bind-.
ing a handkerchief about his scarred
head, 'I had like to have forgotten him,
sir. It was he that first got hold of the
barge-I was the one that saw the thief
take the safe-I gave the first alarm,I
sir-'
Mr. Vandewater by this time held the
head of young Monteagle on his knee,I
and was examining ito his condition,
but, looking pp a moment, he replied to
the Cockney,
'And the safe, where is it!'1
'There, now,' ejaculated the robber as

11,
Z i

i Ff
3333' } y
!{
S
i     '
i
ti
t
44 t
d'
j:
1     i
4
ii
{
t   r
l
Ii

he wiped. the bloody foam   from  his
moush against his shoulder, 'what a fool
I was that I did'nt east the d.---. thing
into the drink, God! they'll get it.
Mr. Vandewater assisted in removing
Monteagle to the other boat, and telling
the men in the barge to call in the morn-
ing at his house, he told the rowers in
his own yawl to pull for the skiff. The
little bark was soon reached, and the
safe was found in its bottom. Mr. Van-
dewater took possession of his property,
and returned speedily to the shore with
Monteagle, whose situation, if he were
indeed alive, required immediate atten-
tion.
When the barge reached the landing,
there was no lack of welcomers on the
beach, for the latter part of the battle in
the boat had been observed by many
spectators. The robber, who had es-
caped injury better than could have
been expected, was handed out of the
barge amid the shouts of the populace
and taken possession of by the police.;
but, strange as it may seem, the Irish-
man and Big Head were suffered to go
among their friends ; perhaps it was
judged by their appearance that they had
suffered punishment enough already.
The devastations of the fire had been
wide and fearful. In an incredible short
time, a large portion of the cit had
been laid in ruins.-Houses and streets
had suffered alike, the planking of the
thoroughfares rendering them equally
combustible with the buildings.
On the day succeeding these events, a
pale youth, with a bandage about his
temples, lay in a darkened room some
two miles from the town of San Francis-
co, seeming to be as&amp;enp ; and yet the
almost marble whiteness of th" features
might have led a casual spectator to

15


16              MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

suppose that the coroner was required
in his case, rather than the surgeon.
The bed upon which he lay, as well as
the chaste elegance of the furniture,
about the apartment, betokened that the
master of the- mansion had eminently
been successful in the general sruggle
for wealth, and also that he possessed a
liberal taste which enabled him to em-
ploy his means for the embellishment as
well, as for the support -of life. The
windows of the chamber looked out upon
an extensive garden, nicely arranged and
kept, and romantically varied with rocks
and underwood of natural growth. The
house'itself was an elegant edifice stand-
ing on a hill-side, and commanding a fine
view of the surrounding country.
-.CHAPTER II.
The Breaking Heart--A Scene of Ten-
derness and Despair.
The pale slumberer lay perfectly still,
and a close observer could scarcely have
perceived that he breathed. Thus had
he lain a few moments, when a side door
-     slowly opened,~and a fair feminine coun-
tenance, a perfect blonde, surmounted
with a profusion of flaxen ringlets, was
thrust gently into the apartment. Then
the door opened wider, and the symmetri
cal form of a young girl of seventeen
years stood in the apperture. She lis.
tened a moment, and then advanced on
tiny foot into the chamber ; then th
other-; and finally she stood within the
apartment, but with the door left opex
behind her. There stood the beautifu
sylph trembling and pale, and sometimes
looking back, as if hesitating whether t
proceed or return. At length she step
lightly forward and fixed her eyes upoi

the countenance of the slumberer. She
instantly clasped her hands across her
bosom, raised her.large blue eyes to hea-
ven, and an expression of deep agony
rested on those sunny features, like a
heavy thunder cloud passing over a
beauteous landscape in midsummer.
Her timidity seemed to have fled with
the first glance that she had bestowed
upon the invalid. Turning her back to-
wards him, she even murmured aloud,
'And all this he has suffered for the
preservation of my uncle's property.
Oh! why could he not have delegated
Cuat duty to others more fitted for such
rude work?  Already had he performed
a deed sufficient to gild his name with
perpetual glory--in saving an accom-
plished--an-an-in saving human life ;
for it matters not who she was. To save
a life is enough, and at the risk of his
own.'
She turned and looked once more at
the sleeping youth ; again she pressed
her hands against her heart, and, this
time, she sighed deeply. A footstep was
I heard in the passage way, approaching
the door that opened into the hall, and
gliding through the one at which she had
entered, the young girl had retired, just
as two other individuals entered the sick
chamber. One of those who now ap-
proached the couch of the invalid was
a tall, slender, middle-aged man, elegant-
-a ly attired, and yet with a sort of grace-
e ful negligence which drew the attention
e of the observer rather to the manners
e and bearing of the gentleman himself,
n than to the garb in which he was ar-
l rayed.
s    The other gentleman wore a plain suit
o of black, was of middling height, with
t light hair and eyes, and probably thirty
n years of age.

i'ai

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                           17
 Yes, doctor,' said the latter gentle- 'You must not let him be disturbed
men, as they entered the room. 'It is sir, and I will leave something to be ad-
as   t  ou.'                        minstered to him as soon as he wakes.'
'But, sir,' returned the other, ' recol-  'I don't think you heard my last ob-
end the aquaintanship-female timidity servation, sir.
a     e gentleness of the sex's nature.  'Oh, yes-1 heard, sir. You remark.
To see one whom she had so long known ed that she was the daughter of your
dangerously wounded, brought suddenly esteemed brother: but, pray, sir, if the
into the house, with a mind unprepared; young people love one another"--
remember all the attendant circumstan-  'You don't understand me, sir,' was
ces, Mr. Vandewater, and you will not the quick, coup de parole of the mer-
be astonshed that the poor girl exhibit- chant. 'I did not say that the young
ed symptoms of agitation.'           people loved each other.'
'Oh, yes, yes, my dear sir.  Other.  'Ah! flow I understand,' said the
wise she would not be woman,' replied surgeon, looliing really concerned. cI
the merchant. 'Agitation, sympathy, see-you wish to preserve your niece's
pity, all these were to be expected. But, happiness, not to prevent it!'
sir, she would have been frank in the  'Exactly, sir. There is not a man in
expression of her sympathy if all had the world to whom I would sooner marry
been well, Instead of that, she strove my niece, than to him who lies before
to hide her concern. She became as you. Of unquestioned integrity, can-
pale as chalk-as white as milk, sir ; and did, honorable, devoted
movd of wthot utern  labdfe                -ote  omy interests,
moved off without uttering a syllable, of elegant manners, without being ffem-
or making the least inquiry, and if my iate, humane as he is bravo, well edu-
wife had not followed her and supported cated, and of respectable parentage. I
her to her chamber, she would have fell find no fault in Lorenzo Monteagle.
lifeless to the floor.'              none at all, sir. But my niece shall be
'His pulse is better,' said the doctor, forced upon no man, sir. The king's
whose thoughts now ran in the line of his son is not good enough for her, when it
profession, and who had taken the youth comes to that.'
by the wrist. He will escape a fever-  'But will he not, in tinie, admire Miss
it was thatI dreaded.'              Julia, sir. It appears to me, that if I
' And then her aunt has remarked her were a bachelor '--
deportment while in the presence of the  ' You should'nt have her if you were,
young man.-                          sir '-interrupted Vandewater with a
'A fine constitution, sir. You must burst of laughter that made the  oun-
not throw him away-don't give him up ded man start in his sleep, ' would I
yet. I think he will be restored to you, have a son-in-law or a nephew-in-law,
after all.'                          think you, that carries about with him
'She is. the daughter of a beloved such awful weapons-those horrible
brother, whose death, some ten years ago, saws, gimlets, I know not what you call
occasioned me the most poignant dis- them, I should never feel sure of my
tress. and I shall tale care of her as legs and arms one moment, while he
if sh" was my own child.'           was in the house-ha! ha ! ha!'


18                     MYSTERIES AND      MISERIES
' However that may be,' said the hills and through the valleys towards
other, 'if I were a young swain like the town of San Francisco.
your paragon here, I should deem my.   Several days had passed since the
self but too happy to try to win a smile occurence of tbe events mentioned
from that fair niece of yours, and if you above, when on a fair morning, a pale
are really willing that the match should youth sat in a recess at the bottom of
take place '-re I.                   the merchant's garden. A staff stood by
' It will never be,' returned the mer- his side, an evidence that he was not yet
chant, gravely interrupting the surgeon able to walk without support, and his
-' Monteagle is very fastidious, even in white attenuated hands were pressed to-
his friendship. He is a singular young gether in his lap, while his large blue
man. It must be a..particular woman eyes, which looked nearly black when
that strikes his fancy, possessed of deci- contrasted with his white brow, were fix-
ded qualities; none of your pretty faces ed upon some object in the distance.
and piano songs will steal away his His gaze rested on the dwelling place of
heart. Of that I am too well assured. Senor del Castro; but what were his
More than one young lady has tried her reflections, we cannot pretend to divine ;
utmost skill '-                     nor was he long permitted to indulge
But has the man no heart ?       them without interruption.
'So decidedly one that it must have a  From behind a cluster of bushes near,
decided choice,' cried the merchant, 'be- sailed out a figure in a white dress, which
fore it can consent to own itself the floating gently towards the invalid, pla-
property of another. He likes the so- ced one hand upon his arm, and caused
ciety of ladies ; but he does not prefer him to turn suddenly towards her.
one to another. I am persuaded that he  'Mr. Monteagle, I'm glad to see you
has never seen the woman he'can love. abroad once -more. OhI it looks so much
He has known Julia more than two more natural to see you up and stirring,
years, and has never treated her differ- that it really reminds me of old times.'
ently from  other women. , But it mat-  With a smile slightly sarcastic, the
ters not. So you think the young man youth replied-' I am but too happy to
is fairly out of danger?'            be the cause of reviving pleasant remin-
'It might be going too far to say so, iscences in the mind of Miss Vandewa-
sir-but I think he will recover.  I ter.
would not be afraid to stake a hundred A deep blush passed over the cheek
ounces on the event.'                and brow of the fair girl as she replied :
'Glad to hear that. I don't doubt 'You are very severe, sir. I will say
your skill, Doctor, so let us walk below then, in downright English, since I must,
and finish that old Madeira before it gets that I am rejoiced to see you improved
any sourer.'                        in health, with a fair chance of recovery.
After another brief examination of Now, Mr. Critic; are you satisfied?
his patient, the surgeon followed Mr.  ' Oh ! no doubt I ought to be, since
Vandewater down stairs ; and in half an Miss Vandewater has used the commonly
hour afterwards might have been seen approved phrase which custom has made
:nounting his horse and winding over the necessary for all like' occasions.'

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

'Nay, then I will send Inez del Castro 'She said, *thanks, thanks, generous
to you: no doubt she will do the honors American-my father will bless your
of the occasion better--.-at least her name at the altar  ill GodleIssu
mode will be more original than mine.' all she said,  ar of his God' It was
Miss Vandewater uttered the latter smoke stifled he nexh    moment the
part of the sentence in a quick, hurried sible on m  boshme           e
manner, and in spite of herself, delivered  'And, oh  onc
the word 'original' in a tone of consid- Vandewat  Monteagle l' cried Mi
enable bitterness. The tears rose to her looking upwards, iwe heard that  ou
eyes, and she blushed deeper than ever. were nearly perishing in the flames '
It was plain that she would have given  As she-uttered these words, the t
much to recall her words and manner; gushed from hereyes  wd thro he ars
but it was too late. The youth looked self  on    er eyes, and throwing her-
down and sighed.                     .     p   arcna        he feet of the
T                                  invalid, she covered her face with her
The young lady heard that sigh, and hands and wept aloud at the recollection
it seemed to restore her to all her digni- of that bitter mo t
ty. She lifted her head and shook back  'Ungrateful wretch that I
the flaxen curls from her snowy brow. unworthyotIam, how
'                     yrw      oty    of this mrethan    -tr  i,
'I know that you are not acquainted terest which she tkes in mystefrl m-
with Inez, though she-fainted in your said Monte-gle to himself, and placing
arms! It was very romantic.'         one of his hands upon the head of the
Monteagle had great self-possession ; unhappy girl, he said-Oh!h it was not
but he was obliged to turn his face part- so bad as that a stream of waters
ly aside to conceal an expression of sur- removed all inconveremo waerysoon
prise and sorrow at the broad raillery in. trifling burn was all that  a  fvery
to which the young lady suffered herself The girl looked up, seized the ba.d
to be betrayed by feelings too       that had been
betooobpalpbleathahadhben extended to her, kissed it
to be mistaken. The many instances in vehemently, and fled, blushing, to the
which she had evinced jealousy of any house of her uncle.
att nation showed by Monteagle to other  'If the sacrifice of my life could ma
ladies, had long since let him into the her happyk' ejaculated Monteold makh
seet-if secret it could be called.  ing the tears from his eyes which h
'Miss Vandewater,' said he, at length  could no longer restrain
'I have seen the daughter of Senor del
Castro but twice in my life, and have
spoken to. her, but on one occasion
When I stood at the top of the ladder
enveloped in flame, I asked her to trust
herself in my arms, and without betray-             -     ~- -
ing any affected delicacy, yet with great
feminne dignity she placed her fopt on
the ladder and declined upon my shoul-
der.' -                             I
'And did she say nothing?'

0


20               MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

CHAPTER III.
The Dance House-The Bella Union-
The Last Stake !
THE night was dark in San Francisco
-that city far away on the confines of
the Pacific. And far other scenes and
other deeds are witnessed there than it
ever entered into the imagination of the
dwellers on the Atlantic sea-board to
conceive of. Description is at fault;
words cannot paint the mingled web,
and fancy has no colors sufficiently vivid
to depict the peculiar state of society in
the newly-risen metropolis of California.
Naturalists describe the state of the
world long before man became a dweller
upon the earth, and the fossils which they
cure tell of strange animals that once
existed here unlike anything which the
world now presents.
In Pacific street-named after the
ocean that rolls her floods to the very
doors of the Californian traders-there
are several houses in which congregate
the lower class of ruffians and pleasure-
seekers, where the tamborene and fiddle
are seldom allowed to rest, where the
merry dance is kept up the live-long
night by men of all nations, all complex-
ions, and all professions. Here may be
seen the Lasear, the Mulatto, the Chi-
han, the Brazillian negro, the Nantucket
whaleman, the escaped convict from Bo-
tany Bay, the red-faced Englishman, the
native of, the soil, the Mexican ; and
every other class and nation is here re-
presented. Men of standing, wealthy
people here flock promiscuously with the
lowest classes of all countries.
It was in one of these dance halls,
where the usual throng was engaged in

beating the floor with their feet to the
tune of the most simple instruments of
music. Now a tall smooth fellow of jet
blackness asked a light-haired Yankee
to touch glasses with him, while a little
infirm man in a blue nankeen jacket,
who had once been the mate of a ship,
could find nothing better than to explain
to a Chinese sailor, in one corner, the
way in which a Turk's head-knot was
made upon a rope. But for the most
part, boisterous mirth prevailed, some
danced as if they had been bitten by a
tarantula, while others  roared  out
snatches from such songs as ears polite
are not often saluted with.
Whatever was done was thoroughly
done, done with a vengeance, without
restraint and without fear of disturbing
the neighbors.-                  I
On the night which we have mention-
ed, the noise and confusion was unusual-
ly great, the throng was more numerous
than common from the fact that one
watch was on shore from a whaleship in
the harbor, and they had all blundered
into this hall to drink and be merry.
'Keep it up!' cried one long-legged,
broad-shouldered fellow, throwing up one
of his feet to the very wall and then
dancing with a violence that threatened
to bring down the roof about his ears.
' He's a boatsteerer,' said one of the
ship boys'-' he's great at striking a
whale,' and he gazed with admiration on
this specimen of Nantucket enterprise.
'Keep it up !' shouted the boatsteerer
making his long legs fly about the room
as if he was under the influence of a
galvanic battery.
'Keep it up!' screamed he again, as
he caught a short Englishman by the
arm and tried to inspire' him with a por.
tion of his own enthusiasm.

01 SAN    ERANCISCO.                        21
''Yes, yes.' said the Englishma., biting will look a great while before they-,
off the end of a tobacco plug, and walk.  'Alh ! hush jist now! don't name it,
ing off to thhe other side of the room to for yees don-t know what ears is open,
get out of the wind of those formidable if you was only to spake of the sand
legs.                                hils-'
'Keep it up!' bawled the boatsteerer ' Hush, noo, Patrick ! would ye be
to a cou e of Irishmen who happened to after revaling it all, and we sworn on the
enter at the moment; and so it appear- howly 'vangellers too ?'
ed that the sunm and substance of all   'But as for the Monteagle there,
that was in this man's cranium could be Jamie, there must soomething be done,
xpressed in those simple words 'Keep for Montgomery swears he'll have his
it up,' a phrase that he continued to utter life, for the taking the safe from him, the
periodically throughout the entire even bloody robber !
ing.                                    'Faith, boy, make yourself perfectly
But neither the Englishman nor the easy, then, for there's another way to
two Irishmen obeyed the summons on kill a cat besides the putting of a slug
this occasion. Theyhad'kept it up' too into her countenance, sure,' and Jamie
often and too long to be peculiarly enthu- win e sagaciously. eousg know then
iastic at the sound of a fiddle. 'het        er        is going to under-
two latter especially seemed to have take for him.'
other matter in hand, and seating their-.' Och, thin, don't you belave the bit of
serves upon one corner of a bench near t-one of these gintlemen will never
the dves upon he  cn  enhnearsshoot another. Wolf won't ate wolf'
te door, they thus exchanged thoughts  'ie    ertaby         tsnttl
in a sotto voice which,in the uproar that Niver fear that, boy. It's not the
-  ocewhch i t.     pra.thtshooting I'm com'nga-buMrBo
prevailed, was completely inaudible to     g'          gat;but Mr. l3lod-
ybuthget is one of ourself, the same as you
any but themselves,.n Io
'Have you aver seed him since then ?' and,  'ly it is in a more dacenter way
bsteqb                          anddid'nt he promise to get him into
was the question propounded by the wosser trouble up at the 3ella Union'--
shorter of the two.                    ' Arrah, but when will he cotch him
'Faith! and only once, and then I there, think  yu, and Mantgomery all
draped a trigger on him from behind the the time perishing, the poor boy, for
bush, Patrick, but a lump of a gal com'd want of his revinge! And the loss of the
out and stood in the way, or I'd kilt him safe too that weighs heavy upon his
at wunst; but there was no use of get- sperrits like a leaden sinker all the time
ting up a yell from the gal that wud have --Och, the bloody robber!'
brought all the payple in the house about ' Och ! the murtherer,' cried the oth-
my ears.                             er. 'and did'nt I see the pistol in his
'An' I blieve you are right, Jamie, hand when he stood up in the barge, and
for them Vigilance Committees is kaping in a minnit Montgomery would have
a bright lookout, now, for the like o'that; been come to his nat'ril end by foul
and I seed one of 'em up in the Boome- means, but I jit chucked him under the
rang jist when I was booming down-, ear a bit and he lighted down in the bot-
'Ay, faith, Patrick, and it's on account tom of the boat like a breaker full of
of Montgomery that they're shying water.'
around this way, I'm thinking; but they  'Bad nok o the likes of him, Janie,


22                MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

the unspakable murtheriog scoundrel !
It's the like of him that spoils the coun-
thry intirely, and a poor man like you
and me is scragged for trying to get a
dacent living in our own way.'
'Och, botheration ! don't spake to me
Patrick, for I'm as mad as my skin can
hould now, when I think that I didn't
put the could lead into his bowels, but
it was all on account of the slip of a gal
that would have given the ala-r-m if I
had shot him, jist.'
'You shot him once, Jamie, and if'-
'Ab, boy, if I had took a fair aim in
the boat, but my head was lower than
my heels, as I was tumbling over like a
duck wid one wing, and the ball jist
touched him in the ribs, like-but no
matter, Patrick. Montgomery will come
to his revinge through Master Blodget
wh        d pretends to be a gentleman like
hisself, though he's one of us sacret like,
f      th    h'or the benefit of the society, jist,
Here the two, amiable interlocutors
were interrupted by a squabble that had
:grown up between the long boat steerer
and.some Chilian new comers whom he
had desired to ' keep it up,' and not sat-
isfied with applying ' morql suasion' to
the ease, he had taken the liberty to
drag one or two of them into the middle
of the floor by their long ear locks. Not
hearing to dance on compulsion, they
struck long-legs with their fists, and he
gave them battle. He kept them at a
distance a few moments with his long
arms, but they made up for this by draw-
ing their cochillars. Brandishing their
knives they rushed upon him with great
fury. Theother whalemen interfered in
behalf of their shipmate, while all the
scholars present took sides with their
countrymen The battle threatened to
be serious, and blood had already begun
to. flow, when the door opened and a

stout, broad-shouldered man entered the
apartment.
' Charley, is that you? shouted the
master of the house.
' Yes, what is the muss?' cried the
new-corner, whom the reader will recog-
nize as the hero of the fire who took the
ladder on his shoulders-' Hullo r here r
knives out! daggers drawn ! Down, you
rascals!'
Charley then seized two of the most
forward of the combatants in his Her-
culean grasp, and hurled them against
the wall, while the rest, recognizing the
famous engineer, fell back, breathing
heavily and eyeing their adversaries with
murderous spite.
Patrick and Jamie, who had thus far
taken no part in the affray, felt them-
selves aggrieved by the presence of an
official whom they had no particular
reasons for admiring, and whose presence
had more than once been a check upon
their professional labors. They first be-
gan to grumble together in a low voice,
and finding that they could do this with
impunity, they felt emboldened to pro-
ceed still farther.
' The boys has got to be very civil in
these times,' said Patrick.
'Oh ! it was nothing but a little spree
like, they was having-no harm at all,
at all, in a free country, just for a lark
like,' returned Jamie carelessly.
' But the laws is very strict for all
that,' said Patrick, nodding graciously.
'Oh, murder, yes,' returned Jamie, 'its
English laws they are like more than
like what it used to be, before their'---
'You mane the Vigilance Committee,
Jamie ; oh! bad luck to 'em, they is no
lawful powers any how. There's niver
been any good in the place since they
began to meddle with the payple.'

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                           23
Several of the company drew near the clapped Ms hands familiarly on the
two Irishmen and seemed to be interes- shoulder of Charley, saying--' How
ted in their discourse, while Charley, in about that prisoner of yours ? all safe,
conversation with the keeper of the den, eh ?'
eyed them at a distance.               'Montgomery, do you mean ?' asked
In the mean time, the two orators, be- Charley in his deep base voice.
lieving they were at the head of a con-  'Alh! that was his name I believe.
siderable party, got on their feet, and He'll.be triced up, I take it--scragged,
began to swagger about the hall and as the Botany boys call it. Ha ! ha ! ha 1'
swing their fists in close proximity to  'You must have heard that he has es-
such persons present as they supposed to caped, Mr. Blodgeti'
be unfavorable to their views. Jamie   ' Escaped!I  Alh !' cried Blodget, with
was particularly violent until he hapen- a start of real or pretended surprise--
ed to graze the shoulder of Charley 'the devil ! Got loose, eh ? No man is
who, shooting out a fist that would have safe while such fellows are abroad,' and
startled an ox, struck the big Irishman he placed his hand on the guard of his
under the ear and felled him to the gold watch---'but how did it happen,
floor.                               Charley ?  Come, boy, how did he get
What would have been the result of away, the villian ?'
this demonstration, if the door' had not 'If you haven't heard ' returned Char-
opened at the moment, we cannot say, ley, looking circumspectly at his inter-
but all- eyes were turned upon the indi- rogator,' I'll enlighten you on that sub-
vidual who now made his appearance. ject.'
This was a man of youthful appearance,  ' Do, do, I'm all impatience.'
some thirty-five years of age, rather tall  'So I per-ceive, announced the Engi-
and well made, with red whiskers and neer. ' You must know that Montgom-
moustaches and a very good set of teeth. e y, the thief, nas placed in the room of
He was a little pock-marked though not the Vigilance Committee, and Peter was
enough to injure his chance with the la- set over him as a guard : that is, the door
dies, and his manner was both brisk and was locked and Peter was on the out-
.side.'
ostentatious. He was dressed in thesd
extreme of fashion, with a profusion of  Yes, yes, I understand; and so he
.             .             jumped out the window.'
rings on his fingers, and his. entrance fil- 'No, not that exactly, for the windows
led the dingy apartment with the scent were barred and fastened ; but he made
of musk.-Taking out a blue silk hand- a hole through the plastering above, and
kerchief with which he made as if he getting on a table and some other lum-
would have wiped his face, and which he her he climbed up into the room above
then flourished about the room a me- and so he got clear.'
meant, he thrust out a leg as if to exhibit  ' Oh ! the villian !' roared Blodget. at
a boot of patent leather, and planting the same time rubbing his hands very
his heel jauntily on the. floor, he put the unlike a man who was indignant at the
question-                            escape of a felon.
'Well, boys, has Monteagle called here  Charley observed the strange inconsis-
for me. to-night?'                   teney of Blodget's conduct, and when, a
Without waiting for an answer he moment afnrwards, Minteagle thrust his


24                   MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
head into the open window and hailed cried Blodget with a great show of vir-
Blodget by name, the Engineer cast a tuousindignation--' that is-except you
rapid glance first at the latter and then know-where for mere amusement one
at the former while a cloud came over takes a cue with a friend. By the bye,
his brow as if he was sorry to see the are you good at shoving a ball, Mont-
youth in such company,                eagle' 'Billiards you are 'speaking of.
With an almost imperceptible wink Oh, I like that game well enough, for
to the two Irishmen, Jamie and Patrick, exercise. I cannot call myself a profi-
the gay young man rushed out the door cient, though I can once in a while put
and confronted 'his friend Monteagle.'- something in a pocket.'
'Upon my word you look vastly improv-   'But you don't believe in   putting
ed,' said lBlodget as he drew Monteagle something into your own pocket-ha, ha.
towards Kearney street, and pressed his Nor in taking something out of your
arm cordially. 'I was afraid it was all neighbor's.  Well it is robbery.  It
day w'th you, one while, and I can as- makes me so mad sometimes to see how
sure you that Mr. Vandewater was deep- these things are done: but here we are
ly concerned about you     That man at the Bella ; let's just in and overlook
holds you in high esteem, Monteagle; you the game.
may depend upon that. He fairly lost    They entered a very large apartment
flesh when you were considered dubious.' where- all the conveniences and imple-
'I believe, sir, that my employers ments for gambling were found arrayed
place entire confidence in me,' returned according to the most approved style.
Monteagle, 'and that is all that I expect Nothing was wanted to render this es-
of them.   But, pray, where are you tablishinent equal to its 'illustrious pre-
bound to-night l~ After my long confine- decsos nteodwrdadi             h
ment I should like to see a little leas -ecessors' in the old world and in te
'                      p.e.s.  Atlantic cities.
ure. I feel a great inclination to wander
.Here were refreshments offered to all
on the sea shore, or go on a little boating co er refes.Wnsoeredfreely
exgrio.                          comers free of cost. Wines were freely
excursion.'
'Done, sir. I will go with you on poured out and segars presented, so that
Sunday, or whenever you please ; but, 'good old-fashioned hospitality'- was
for the present, suppose we just drop in never displayed in these degenerate days
here at the Belle Union and see some of so bountifullysas Monteagle saw it exhi-
these enterprising gents lose a few slugs, bited at the famous Bella Union.
and the wry faces that they make.'      A large table devoted to the game of
'I've heard sad stories of that place,' Rouge et Noir invited the attention of
returned the youth, but suffering himself our two friends. A Californian of swart
to be led in the direction of the gambling countenance and sinister aspect, here
house. 'I have heard that mote money deals Monte for the benefit of the green-
has been lost there than ever changed horns who throng around the golden
hands in the hells of Baden, at the sal- piles in momentary expectation of seeing
oons of the Palais Royal, or at Crock- them flit into their own pockets, but
ford's. I have a strong dislike to every though riches have wings, they do not
species of gambling.'                 fly in that direction. In lieu of that the
'So have I. Thunder and Mars: I few acres which the 'Squatteroez' have
think It no better than highway robbery,' left them, go rapidly out of their possess

OF SAN    FRANCISCO.                         25
sion.  Then the Faro players were hoarse oaths of some loser not yet grown
thr  ing roun k he table, certain of a sufficiently hardened to stifle his emo-
change of luck next time, and verifying ,tions as he thinks of his poor wife and
the poet's declaration that 'man never little children whom he has robbed of
is, but always to be blest.' Each saga- their support by his last venture.
cious adventurer fancies himself a per-  Monteagle looked with a shudder at
feet La Place or Newton in calculation, the scene presented to his eyes, as he
and believes that he has, at last, master- entered this spacious apartment devoted
ed the complex elaboration of chances, to the goddess of Ruin, and glittering
and shall eventually ' bust the bank.' with gilded baits to serve the purposes
Unmitigated ass! Even though your of those who, in the worst sense of the
power of calculation surpassed that of terms might be called 'fishers of men.'
Zerah Colburn, you would be sure to    An impression far from agreeable was
lose, even admitting that the game was made upon the mind of the youth when
fairly played. .                     he noticed that Blodget who had been
But watch with the eyes of an Argus, recommended to his attention by the
and think with the profundity of a juniorember of the firm in whose ser-
Fourier, and that placid, smooth-tongued vice he was-not only evinced no e
arbiter of Fortune, will look you in the tion at the fearful scenes enacted bfo
eyes and cheat you out of every farthing him, but that he also replied to the famil-
you have got.                   .    iar addresses of the practical gamblers
On all the tables except the last which like one who had long been on terms of
we have described, piles of yellow oro. intimacy with them. But the impression
like veritable offerings upon these altars gradually wore off under the influence
of Mammon, make the heart of avarice of the music, to the soothing effects of
ache, ay, and infect those who are not which Monteagle was peculiarly susep-
very greedy of lucre with a touch of the tible and a glass of excellent wine tend-
yellow fever. Gold in dollars, gold in ered him by an attendant contributed to
five dollar pieces, gold in ten dollar coins, fortify his spirits and prepare him for at
gold in twenty dollar pieces, gold in slugs, least, enduring the strange events that
gold in lumps, gold in bars, gold in dust were taking place around him.
-gold in every and any shape meets     One very genteel middle-aged man,
the dazzeled eyes of visitors, look where apparently a Mexican, passed by them
you will; and' those bland gentlemen with a smile upon his countenance, on
who ery ' Make de game, gentlemens- his way to the door. Pride was evident-
No moe, the game is made,' and who so ly struggling with despair, for he had
liberally furnish the sparkling wine gra- just lost his all, and that smile sat upon
tis, stand ready to hand over to you any his cadaverous features like a sunbeam
or all of those glittering piles as soon as upon a charnel house. Nevertheless, he
you win them!                        walked erect, and maintained a certain
During all this time, bursts of deli, air of dignity, till he passed the portal,
cious music float through the apartment, as some men have done while going to
the harmonies of Bellhii and Mendel- ' the scaffold.
sobn contrasting  strange ly with the  Tfhat sight would have been sufficient


26                   MYSTERIES AND       MISERIES
of itself to have inspired Monteagle with ing lost part of his gold, he seemed des-
a horror of gambling; but he was des- perately bent upon winning it back or
tined to see other sights than this. The loosing the whole. He bent over the
working of the countenances which fell cards with bloodshot eyes, he scarcely
under his eye, the sudden flush of hope, breathed, except when some one spoke to
the blood receding from the features and him, and then with a short hysteric
leaving them  white as death-all these laugh and words half uttered, he replied
things the youth saw, and inly cursed as if not doubting of ultimate success,
the wretches whose band smiles and while his manner and tone gave the lie
tempting wines were leading on the hard- to his pretended confidence.  But his
working laborer to deposite the last grain last venture had been made, and with
)f gold dust in their greedy coffers.  .eyes fixed and glassy, he watched the
There were some poor gold-diggers, process which ended by rendering him
who longed for even a more sudden'     penniless and a beggar.  He fell back,
shower of wealth than the mines affor- gasped for breath, and in the next mo-
ded them; men from .the States who, ment, he lay upon the floor a corpse !
while loosing their gettings at faro as  Monteagle flew to the spot, but he
fast as they won them from the soil, were stood there alone, as nobody seemed to
writing home to their wives, that gold think the event worthy of their atten-
was hard to get on account of the tion.      Finally, however, the body was
drought-more rain was required. Alas ! removed. But who shall describe the
if it had rained gold slugs, they would patient watching and waiting of that
only have gathered the treasure to dis - poor wife the anxious inquiries of the
sipate it all in games of chance.-But little children when their father's prom-
even of these all were not equally reek- ised coming was delayed week after week,
less. One unfortunate creature had, by and month after month-or the anguish
long and arduous labor secured about of the bereaved family when at length
five thousand dollars worth of gold dust. they learned the truth, and instead of
He had written to his family in the moving to a snug little farm, in the en-
State of Vermont, in high spirits, as- joyment of a comfortable independence,
curing them that he should be at home they were carted off to the Alms lou-e
in a short time ; should buy some land friendless and despised ?
and stock it, and that their days of pov-  Blodgett was evidently troubled by
erty were over. But coming to San thse practical illustrations of the evils
Francisco in order to embark for home of gambling, which occurred at a very,
he had been beguiled into the belief that unfortunate time for his purposes. He,
he could double his money at the Bella however, contrived to make Monteagle
Union. He was playing when Montea- swallow several glasses of liquor which
gle entered, and although ignorant of his was not without, its effects, and served in
history, the youth's attention was, at a great measure to deaden his sensibli-
once, drawn to him by the emotion of ties. The music, too, floated through
his manner, and the intense anxiety the apartment, like a syren beckoning
which he betrayed as heap after heap of I with her white and jewelled hand the
his treasure departed from him. Hav- I thoughtless to their doom.

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                   27

It was.midnight-Monteagle, reclined
on a settee, which overlooked the table
of rouge et noir, and feeling the sooth-
ing effect of music and wine, said to
Blodgett-
' After all, Blodgett, there is a certain
amount of evil in this world, and I do
not know that one can make it less. It
is like filling up part of a lake-the wa-
ters only retire to another part.'
'Yes,' interrupted the other carelessly
-as he adjusted his cravat---'and the
ministers have been preaching for eigh-
teen centuries, and what have they ac-
complished? They have only changed
the character of sins, occasionally, while
the same amount remains.
' True,' said Monteagle, who was in a
condition'to be pleased with a congenial
mind-' the Puritans, for instance, were
too pure to eat mince pies or kiss a child
on Sunday ; so they made up for that by
murdering Quakers and witches'
'And what are speculators of all kinds
but gamblers ?' continued the tempter ;
'forestalling markets, laying up grain,
and- other necessaries of life to increase
the price and wring the last cent from
the hard hands of the laboring poor."
There was so much truth in all this
that Monteagle began to entertain a
higher opinion than ever of his compan-
ion, without reflecting that the man who
spoke thus would not scruple to do these
very things himself, and much worse.
' It is as you say,' returned Monteagle
quite warmly-' your views coincide with
mine exactly. It is singular, but I had
supposed you to be a man of less reflec-
tion and philosophy. I now perceive
that you are a man of thought'-.-a
'Oh ! I have my views as well as oth-
ers, that's all  You must know that I
was intended for a minister, and went to

Andover. But come, just for amusement
let's try our luck a little here. You
can stop when you please, you know.'
The, proposition was rather sudden ;
Blodget saw the flush that shot into
Monteagle's cheek, and quickly added-
' To be a man of the world it is abso-
lately necessary to know a little about
playing, even if you don't. practice. All
the natives play, and let me tell you
that a spirited Margaritta regards a
young man as a milk-sop who never lost
or won a slug.'
Something struck the mind of Mont-
eagle at that moment, and he remained
for a couple of minutes in a brown
study, and seemed wholly unconscious of
the presence of Blodget. The latter
turned his face aside and smiled. It was
a self-satisfied smile.
At length said Monteagle, looking up,
' How long have you known Mr. Brown,
the partner of Vandewater ?'
' Oh, these dozen years.  Ile and I
have met here often.'
' What ! does Mr. Brown play ?'
'He! Rh'ss your souP-suddenly
checking hius lf--lie plays the same as
you and I might, just a little for sport.-
That's all: he's not a heavy player; or,
I might say it is more for amusement
than anything else t hat he occasionally-
very seldom, though-lays down a slug.'
There are two classes of people who
are quick at detecting villainy, the ac-
complished rogue and the honest, simple-
hearted man. The sight of the latter is
the more clear of the two as far 'as it
goes, while the former n ensures more
correctly the extent of the int ided (de-
ception. But Monteagle was. at this
moment, disposed to interpret every
thing in the most favorable mnnmer, and
fancied that he saw in Blodget's hesita-


28               MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

tion a generous endeavor to conceal the
picadilloes of Mr. Brown, his employer.
He felt .convinced that Blodget knew
more than he was willing to tell, and
there rushed upon his recollection sev-
eral little circumstances of a somewhat
equivocal character connected with the
conduct of Mr. Vandewater's partner.
Just then, a stout, rude, and hairy
man, nearly as broad as he was long, with
large goggle eyes, and a low, retreating
forehead, came swaggering up to Blod-
get, followed by a large and very savage-
looking dog.
'Good night-good night-my old
boy,' cried he in a rough and loud tone.
Ha ! ha ! glad to see you.'
Blodget stared at the fellow as if he
had some trouble in recognizing him
'No savez. eh ! No savez I' cried the
man. ' Oh, well, any other time will do.
I understand-a pigeon there-don't
-3 "  want to be known, ha ! ha ! I'm just from
Sacramento, old boy. Plenty of dust'-
At this moment, the dog, who had
been smelling about Monteagle, braced
himself opposite the youth and gave a
horrible growl, during which he showed
his fangs. The youth, believing that the
animal was about to spring upon him,
drew a small revolver, and prepared to
defend himself.
' Eh-youngster!' bellowed the brutal
owner of the dog. 'Love me, love my
dog, you know. Don't hurt that dog,
sir.
Certainly not, unless he attempts to
hurt me,' returned Monteagle.
Afraid of a dog, eh ?  Ha, ha 1'
'No, not afraid of a dog,' returned
Monteagle, highly incensed,'for you may
observe that I don't act as if I was
afraid of you, do I?'
'Seize hmi; Boatswain!' shouted the

scoundrel, and the dog; nothing loth
sprang at the young man, and before he
could place himself on his guard, had
fastened his teeth in his vest. At the
same instant, Monteagle, sparing the
brute, aimed his pistol at the owner and
snapped the trigger. The ball justgraz-
ed one of the fat cheeks of the rascal,.
who, thereupon, threw himself upon the
youth and begun to pummel him with
his fists. It must be remembered that
Monteagle had not yet recovered from
his wound. Nevertheless, he defended
himself bravely. But Blodget, as soon
as he saw the conduct of the wretch,
gave him a blow on the side of his head
that felled him like an ox. At the same
time, the dog left Monteagle and seized
Blodget. Monteagle threw his pistol at
the dog, and hit him in the side without
Going him much damage ; but Blodget
turned quickly and drove a short, sharp
dagger to the hilt in the animal's breast.
That finished the business for the dog.
But his savage owner was about stabbing
Blodget in the back with a long, two-
edged knife when Monteagle gave him a
sudden push, which sent him reeling to
the distance of several paces.  3lodget
and his enemy then encountered each
other face to face, and as both were arm-
ed with deadly instruments, the issue
would h ve been bloody had not several
of the crowd, which had by this time
clustered around the combatants, plucked
them asunder. The stout man swore
and threatened vengeance, and as he
struggled hard to get away from .those
who held him, he was finally thrust out
of doors with some violence.  He was
heard, for some time, prowling outside
and threatening all manner of vengeance
against Monteagle and Blodget, especial-
ly the latter whom he charged with all

OF SAN    FRANCISCO.                        29
manner of crimes, and who, he said, hand on his shoulder, said, ' You are my
would long since have been hanged if prisoner, sir.'
half his offences were known to the pub- Monteagle started; but Blodget very
lie.             -coolly turned his face towards the man
All this passed for the ravings of baf- and let the segar-smoke stream from his
fled rage; and although it seemed to ex- mouth directly into the eyes of the offi-
cite anger of Blodget, nobody else seem- cer.
ed to deem it worthy of the least notice. 'You will go with me,' cried the ofii-
The gallant manner in which Blodget cer angrily.
had espoused his cause, completely won  ' Will I? In-deed. Something of a
the confidence of Monteagle, and when prophet- too-   '
he said to the youth, ' Come, now that  At this the officer began to tug at the
rascal of a Sintown has been turned out, coat-collar of his prisoner.
we will just amuse ourselves here, if you 'Now, Oates, aint you ashamed of
have no objection.'                  yourself?' asked Blodget, loosening the
'Sintown, is his name? it seems to me hand of the other from his collar.
that I have heard that name.  Was he   ' Why should I be ashamed  ' asked
not once arrested for robbing a Mexican?' Oates, looking about him, as if to sum-
'Something of that sort, I believe,' re- mon aid.
turned Blodget, glancing stealthily at  'Simply, to impose upon my good na-
the youth, 'but there was no proof of ture in this way. Don't you know that
his guilt.'                          with one blow of my fist I could send
'Proof-there is proof enough in the you reeling, to say nothing of my friend
scoundrel's eye and, indeed, in all the here.'
rest of his features, to hang a dozen  'Your friend. What? You threaten
men.                                 me with a rescue, young man?' to Mont-
Blodget smiled pensively and drew eagle.
Monteagle to the table. After playing  'I have said nothing,' epdlied the
a little while, Monteagle lost a couple of youth.
slugs, when Blodget took his arm and   'But I don't like your looks, sir, said
said, 'Come, my good fellow, the luck the officer, trying to put himself in a
goes against you to-night.  You must towering passion.
wait till Madame Fortune, who, accord-  'Bah!' cried Monteagle, 'Come along,
Blodget, before you frighten this poor
ing to Bonaparte, always favors the gentleman to death. You see that tie is
young, is in a better mood' ready to drop with fear now.'
Monteagle had already become fascin- 'Very well. This is pretty conduct-
ated by the game, but he did not care topretty to a   p    er,'
prety tlk to a ,police oficer, was the
evince greater devotion to the gambling reply of Gates,'but I'll report you to
table than his companion ; therefore he your betters. I know you both and I'll
announced, his readiness- to depart. report you.'.
They had scarcely goie a dozen paces  ' Take something along with you first,
from the door, when a man stepped or you'll have nothing to tell,' cried
lightly up to Blodget, and clapping his Blodget, seizing the official by the back
of the neck. as he was about to make a

S i


OF SAN FRANCISCO.                 81

hasty retreat. and giving him three or ple threw up their windows to see what
four vigorous kicks.                  was the matter.  Finally, nobody could
'Murder ! help!' cried the police offi- get at the secret ; the noise died away,
cer. 'Oh, don't murder me, and i'll tell and San Francisco lay silent and dark on
you all about it. It was Sintown who the shores of its glorious Bay.
made the complaint. He said that you
was-
Before he could finish the sentence,           CHAPTER IV.
which, for reasons of his own, Blodget did
not care to hear at that moment, he was   The Footsteps of the Tempter.
thrust into the middle of the street, and
having picked himself up, the valorous  HEF stood in the Plaza, Lorenzo Mont-
officer ran around the first corner as if a eagle, head  rk to the house of Van-
legion of imps were at his heels.     dewater &amp;   brown .   Down into the
'Now,' said Blodget to Monteagle, as sparkling waters of the Western main,
they resumed their walk, ' if the fellow  the king of day was slowly sinking, like
had showed any pluck, I would have the glorious Constantine submitting to
given him enough to keep him drnnk for Christian baptism at the moment he was
a week, in order to have the appearance bidding the world adieu.  Monteagle
t of buying myself off. As it is, he feels so surveyed the throng that was passing
much disappointment at having received hither and thither on the different streets
'more kicks than coppers' that he will go bordering the neglected public square on
home to his masters with a horrible which he stood. They were all person-
story of an attempt at assassination, of able, able-bodied men, who walked and
being attacked by forty thieves at once, spoke as if there was no enterprise of
and the whole town will be at our heels which they were not capable, no adven-
in less than ten minutes.   Therefore, ture too daring for their powers. The
here we part. Do you drop in at your absence of children and the scarcity of
friend's in Montgomery-street, which is women gives a singular aspect to the
but a few steps from  this spot, while I city of San Francisco, and this was real-
will shift for myself as I best may.' ized by Monteagle, as he now 'stood gaz-
The wisdom of this proposal was evi- ing upon the~ hardy representatives of
dent to Monteagle, who walked straight every country on the globe, as they
to a house where he had sometimes moved before him on the great public
lodged when in town, and gaining an en- square of the city.
trance after some little trouble, he felt  As the evening shades began to gath-
himself safe from pursuit.            er around the black rigging of the ves-
Meanwhile Blodget, directing his steps sels in the bay, and gloom upon the dis'
towards the sand hills, was very soon out tant waters, the youth looked about him
of sight.                             as if seeking for some individual whom
Shortly after the town was in an up- he expected to meet on that spot. A
roar. The   quick  tramp of feet was man passed near him, nearer in the
heard in the streets, cries and shouts re- opinion of Monteagle than there was
sounded through the air, and many peo- any occasion for. He grazed the youth's

elbow as he went by, and appeared to do
it on purpose.
Monteagle turned to look at the man,
and the latter turning also, clapped his
hands on his hips, and with a swagger-
ing air, looked the former saucily in the
face. Monteagle thought he had seen
the fellow before ; he was dressed much
as an ordinary laborer, large in size, with
big coarse features that glowed with the
effect of frequent potations.
Monteagle was about to . turn away
from the man in disgust, when he said-
'I think yees will know me when yees
sees me again.'
' Why so?'
'Bekase yees trying to look off the
countenance of me, I believe.'
' I shall look where I please, and as
long as I please,' returned Monteagle.
' That's unfortunit agin,' said the
Irishman, 'for yees will see nothing but
a jintleman, and that's what yees not
used to seeing inside of the looking-
glass.'
' What is the object of these insults,
you scoundrel?' cried Monteagle, still in
the belief that he had fallen in with the
fellow before, but where he could not re-
collect.
'Oh-no object at all, at all. But if I
is a scoundrel, there's more than one on
the Plaza jist, and he's not beyond the
raitch of my fist, nythur.'
This was rather too much for Mont-
eagle's patience, and accordingly be rush-
ed upon the intruder and saluted him
with a violent blow in the face. The
Irishman staggered backwards a few feet
and then recovering himself approached
the youth in a boiling rage. As they

one attempted to interfere. Monteagle
was a pupil of Frank Wheeler's and the
science he had acquired from the teach-
ings of that accomplished gymnast en-
abled him to bother his bulky antagonist
a good deal. This rendered the latter
exceedingly angry, and a cry was raised
by the by-standers, as they saw a Span-
ish knife in the hand of the Irishman,
which he had dexterously drawn from
some part of his dress, and with which
he rushed upon the youth with the evi-
dent design of finishing him and the bat-
tle together. At that moment, and just
as the youth had 'caught a glimpse of
the steel flashing before his eyes, a pow-
erful hand was laid upon the shoulder of
the Irishman, and he was drawn violent-
ly backwards. Some of the crowd began
to murmur, but the Irishman looked in-
to the countenance of the intruder, and
both he and Monteagle pronounced the
word 'Blodget!'
'How now, sir. What are you doing
with that knife ?' cried Blodget in a pe-
remptory tone.
You see it's the thafe himself, the
bloody robber !' said the Irishman, pas-
sionately, though evidently cowering un-
der the gaze of Blodget.
' Who told you he was a thief? Be-
gone, sir!' cried Blodget, 'Mr. Monteagle,
I find you in bad company. Is that an
acquaintance of yours?' continued Blod-
get, with a gay laugh, as lie turned to our
youth, and pointed at the retreating
form of the Irishman.
'Not of mine, exactly, said the youth
placing considerable emphasis on the
word.
'Oh-yes-a-hem. I have known the

met and exchanged blows, the people rascal some two or three months. We
came crowding to the spot, apparently had his services in cleaning out a cellar
bent only upon seeing the fight, as no and on several other occasions. Devil

I

80              MYSTERIES AND MISERIES


MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

take the fellow-did he hurt you much?'
'Better ask if I hurt him,' returned
the youth, 'for I think he would have
carried away a piece of maleable metal
with him, but for your opportune deliv-
erance.'
'If he had not been too quick for you
--he's dexterous in the use of the
knife.'
'Is he, indeed ?'
'You wonder how I found out that
fact. I have heard of his encounters
with the natives. His name is James,
commonly called Jamie, and there are
many stories extant as to his prowess.'
'Strange he should have taken so
much pains to insult me,' said Mont-
eagle.
'He seemed to have something against
you,' answered Blodget. 'Cannot you
remember of ever seeing him before?'
Blodget watched the countenance of
Monteagle narrowly, as the youth replied,
'I have some faint recollection of the
fellow's face. His nose, that seems to
have been knocked out of its proper
shape, struck me like an old acquaint-
ance, but where, and under what circum-
stances I have seen it before, I am un-
able to determine. But let him go. You
and me are met now. for another pur-
pose.'
'Let us walk along towards Dupont
street,' said the other, musing.
'Well, on then. But what engages
your thoughts at this moment?'
'As for that, Monteagle, what would
you give to know ?
'It's not very important, I'll be sworn.
Some love affair doubtless.'.
'You are a wizard,' replied Blodget.-
'It is a love affair, but one that inter-
ests you much more than me.'

'Interest me?' said the youth, much
surprised.
'It is a great secret, sir,' and Blodget
squeezed the arm of his companion.
'If it is a secret you are bound to
keep it close. Is it not so?' -
'Not exactly.  But come into this
shantee with me, and I will explain mat-
ters to your full satisfaction.' .
Monteagle followed his friend into the
wine shop, nothing loth ; for though he
assumed an indifferent air, he could not
feel altogether uninterested in an affair
of this kind. Besides, like all young
men on such occasions, his curiosity was
powerfully excited.
Blodget sat down in one corner and
beckoned to the host to set on a bottle
of champagne. He then pressed Mont-
eagle to drink who, at first, refused, but
being in haste to hear the news, he final-
ly tossed off a glass in order to hurry on
the recital which Blodget had in store
for him.,
' It is a strange story,' said Blodget,
smacking his lips-' good wine'
'But this queer business-the love
story-some Mexican squaw, I suppose,
has ---'
' No - no. You are a lucky dog,
Monteagle.'
'Very likely.'
Here Blodget poured out another glass'
and nodded to his companion-' Take
another, and then to business.'
Monteagle drank to save time, and
said ; 'go on with this wonderful story.'
'Well,' said the other, ' I think your
chance is good. The firm hold you in
high estimation --'
' Fudge ! no more of that --'
' But I must tell the story in my own
way. I say that you are a lucky dog,

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                             83
Monteagle. Come, one more glass and My God ! who told you that she loves
then to business.'                   me ?'
Monteagle drank, and motioned impa-  'Her own eyes ought to have told you
gently to Blodget.                   that long ago.'
'My friend, if you work your cards   ' Her own eyes!'
right, there is a fortune in reserve for ' Yes, ha ! ha ! ha l' roared Blodget,
you.'                                'why, man alive, did you never hear of
A thought'struck Monteagle, and for a the tell-tale eyes which reveal what pas-
moment he was agitated. He drank to ses in the heart ?'
hide his emotion.                       ' But who told you ?'
'Good wine, is it not, Monteagle ?'  'It is a secret, you know ; you will not
' Yes, indeed, but we are coming to the betray me.'
end of the bottle before we get to the be- ' Honor bright, of course.'
ginning of the story.'                 'I'll trust you. Brown told me.'
'Oh, but I've told you the most im-  ' What Mr. Brown, our partner?'
pertant part--that is the fortune. Now  'Yes, indeed.'
with regard to the young lady, she is a  'But how could Mr. Brown know any-
perfect angel.'                      thing of this affair, eh! You astonish
'Of course-all angels till after mar- me.'

riage.'
-No, but you've seen her.'
' Have I, indeed ?'
'The old man .+is rich-counts his
money by tens of thousands. You have
seen him, too. Landlord, another bot-
tle.'
'Ive seen him, too!' and the youth
swallowed another glass, for his heart
throbbed violently.
'The girl is beauty personified--ac-
complished-lovely as a seraph-eyes of
the-the     '
'The blackest jet, of course.'
'Well, I'm not so certain of that.-
But they are-'
'Oh, deuce take the description, now
to the point.'
'Well, Monteagle, she loves you, loves
you to distraction.'
Monteagle started to his feet.
'Sit down, friend of mine, and let us
finish this bottle.'
'Certainly. But who told you this?-

'Not at all; easy enough. Vandewa-
ter told the doctor, and the doctor told
Brown ; so now I have betrayed all the
three. You see it is authentic. Tho
girl has confessed her love to Vandewa-
ter himself.
'To Vandewater?'
'Yes, why not?'
'She must be in earnest, then. She
loves me beyond a doubt.'
'She has loved you many months, now
Monteagle is a chance- '
'She loved me many months! But-'
'Fact, sir, fact ? She confessed it to
Vandewater, whotried to persuade her to
conquer her passion.'
The youth started to his feet.
' I'm much obliged to him. le try
to-he interfere in a case of this kind.-
But that exceeds his authority.'
Tut ! tut ! work your cards right and
the girl is yours, and then Vandewater's
fortune, you know-    '
' What have I to do with Vandewa,

to


MYSTERIES AND, MISERIES

term's fortune ?' cried the youth surpris- cumstance at least. Monteagle followed
ed.                                  him out mechanically, and suffered him-
'What has she to do with his fortune? self to be led wherever Blodget might
what is hers is yours, you know, if you choose to convey him.
come together.'                                 CHAPTER    V.
Monteagle looked mystified.        Our Hero Treads Forbidden Ground-
'You know,' continued J3lodget, ' that  The Mansion in Dupont Street.
Julia is  -'THEY walked but a short distance be-
'Julia ?'                         fore they reach a splendid house in Du-
'Yes, Mr. Vandewater's neice----'  pont street. Monteagle had heard the
'What have you been talking about?' character of this building, but had paid
cried Monteagle.                     but little attention to it. He was now
'She loves you! Fact ! Don't stare in a condition to enter almost any house
at me so increduously. See, my boy-  where amusement was to be obtained,
clapping him  on. the shoulder--' the for in addition to the champagne which
game's in your own hands if you only he had taken, he had experienced no
play your cards right.'              small disappointment upon learning the
Monteagle sank back in his chair look- whole extent of Blodget's wonderful se-
ing listlessly upon his half-emptied glass, cret. As they entered this elegant man-
while Blodget went on for a considera- sion it began to grow dark. The inte-
ble time descanting on the merits of Ju- rior was far more imposing than the out-
lia Vandewater, and the brilliant pros- side. They passed through a wide hall
pects that would open opon Monteagle lighted by an elegant chandelier, which
if he married her.                   hung in golden chains from the ceiling.
'No matter,' said'our youth, careless- Other furniture betokened abundance
ly.  'That doctor must be a regular of wealth.
gossip, and deserves to be called out for  Blodget opened a door that led to a
publishing family secrets with which he large apartment, carpeted in the most
has been entrusted.'                fashionable style-fashionable in a land
Blodget gazed at Monteagle in amaze- where ostentatious wealth may be deem-
ment.   He wondered that. the young ed excusable. Rich sideboards, tables,
man who had been'so anxious to hear chandeliers and ornaments of the most
the disclosures which he had to make, elegant form and costly materials here
should seem so little affected at a fact greeted Monteagle on every side.
which would have occasioned no small   On a sumptuous sofa of the richest
triumph to himself. But the reader is Genoese velvet, sat two young ladies,
already informed that this marvellous whose costly dresses were admirably fit-
secret was no news to Monteagle ; who, ted to their forms, and so arranged as to
so far from triumphing in the conquest betray their charms to the most casual
which he had made of Julia's heart, was observer, One of them, to whom Blod-
deeply grieved that he could n t return get addressed himself on entering, was
her affection. But Monteagle lJad taken not tall in stature but of exquisite sym-
more wiue than usual, and Blodget seem- metry. Her complexion, though that of
ed to be perfectly satisfied with that cir- a brunette, was so transparent, and the

34

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

35

rose on her cheeks was so brilliant, that  The sound of voices and occasional
one would scarcely have noticed that she laughter in a neighboring apartment
was darker than her companion. A pair gave evidence that there were more of
of lustrous large black eyes beamed from the fair consolers in the house, and that
beneath a profusion of raven tresses, and other men, beside Blodget and Montea-
the clearly defined, arched eye-brows ap- gle, were regaling their eyes with femi-
peared to have been drawn by the pen- nine loveliness.
cil of a skilful painter. The upper moie-  A few moments conversation sufficed
ty of two well rounded globes was dis- to show that the dark eyed girl was a
played by the low dress, while the little native of South America, while the other
foot and beautiful ancle were not covered had been born and brought up in the
by the long drapery in vogue with the land of Johnny Bull, though her accent
daughters of a more northern clime.-  betrayed that her earlier days had been
Whether her mouth was made for speak- spent in the ' North Countrie.' She
ing or kissing, might have been a ques- was one of Burns' beauties, and how so
tion with naturalists and men of vertu; fair a flower, who, even now seemed to
but most men would have decided prac- have retained some portion of her mod-
tically in favor of the latter view. It esty, should ever have found her way to
was, indeed, a mouth that spoke elo- a house of this description on the dis-
quently while silent, like one of those sea tant shores of California, was a problem
shells which one sometimes finds in the which Montengle found difficult to solve.
Orient, ruddy and of voluptuous form.   Throwing himself on a sofa and put-
'Mr. Blodget is come again. Very ting his arm around her slender waist,
welcome Mr. Blodget,' said the fair crea- Moeteagle said-'Were rot you and I
ture. ' I wait much for see you, and acquainted in the old country ?'
never see you no more.'                 Although this was merely common
But while addressing Blodget, she place nonsense, the girl slightly blushed
fixed her speaking eyes on Monteagle before she replied-' Nae doubt, sir, they
and surveyed his features and fine form  be all frae Scotland that speaks to me,
with evident admiration.             sir.
The other girl was taller and fairer, ' You did not know that I was desceu-
with a majestic neck, blue eyes, and ded from the noble house of'
brown hair, the ringlets bursting from  ' Douglas?'
her head dress and showering over her   ' No, but of-of'--
well-turned shoulders. She smiled and   'Oh ! the Bruce it must be'
showed pearls, she walked and exhibited ' No-stop-the--house of Monteith.'
grace and voluptuous proportions. She   'Monteith!' cried she, removing her-
spoke and music fell from her lips.  self farther from, and affecting horror at
Monteagle, aided by the champagne the name.
that he had drank, made himself agree-  'Yes, that noble ancestry I claim, and
able very soon-sooner 'than propriety you shall be my bonny bride, and we will
would have required had not his fair return together to Scotia's shores,"and
friends been accustomed to impromptu live near the highland cot in which you
friends and acquaintances,           were born and reared.'


MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

'With a Monteith! with a Monteith, made to believe that she had moved in a
think you?' and she stared curiously at circle differing, in many respects, from
the youth.-'take off your shoes, sir, that with which he now found her. He
did I ever think I should eve' set 'my became more. and more interested in
twa een upon one of that family? Tak Maria, as she was called. With all her
off your boot and let us see if ye have liveliness there was a certain delicacy
not a cloven foot, at least?'        about her which enchanted him;- and as
Blodget had sent for wine, which was she moved about to different parts of the
procured at twenty dollars the bottle-  room, her rounded form and voluptuous
an excellent article, however ; and now limbs could not escape his watchful re-
conversation, raillery, repartee, and corn- gards.  His imagination  exalted  by
pliments flowed freely. The two girls rich wines and fascinated by the beauty
were entirely unlike those whom we find and the manners of Maria, Monteagle was
in houses of resort in the Atlantic cities. in a condition to overlook the demand of
They had evidently received a good edu- prudence, and the whisperings of con-
cation, more especially the dark-eyed science. Blodget certainly exhibited no
one, and their conversation was conduct- regret at observing this.
ed in a style more usually heard in a  The saloon was full of visitors, and
fashionable drawing-room than in an es- young ladies, and some of the latter
tablishment sacred toThe Paphian 'God- knew the young clerk well by reputation.
dess.                                They became much interested in the flir-
This way the evening was spent, and station that was going forward between
the hour had become late. Other girls Maria and Monteagle, and although they
arious degrees of beauty were in the were too well bred to betray their interest,
ap tent. Music of a high order-ad- they saw and heeded all that passed be-
de to the charm of the occasion. The tween them. Some were much surprised,
men at this house were generally of the and others thought it very natural, while
higher classes, or those who assumed to some few, no doubt, rejoiced in the op-
be so ; and the utmost harmony pre- portunity for scandal, which would enable
valued.  The wines sparkled-wit flew them  to 'entertain company,' by the
from mouth to mouth-and, few things hour or the subject of youthful proclivi-
were said or done which might not have ties, and the danger of placing too much
passed in the saloons of Mr. Vandewater confidence in these 'promising young
himself.                             men.'
Blodget had the air of a blase, and  This was a moment of danger for
after having talked a little, in a tone of Monteagle, and yet hundreds of other
listless indifference, with the Spanish youths-were in the nightly and even dai.
girl, he turned to another. At the close ly habit of visiting gambling-houses and
of the evening, Monteagle found himself places of debauchery, upon whose con-
in conversation with the lively and in- duct no remark was made. The reason
telligent Spanish maid, who told him of this may have occurred to the reader.
that she came from Santiago, a city of Monteagle was highly esteemed by his
Chile, and where, from some words that employers, and an opinion had got about
accidentally dropped from her, he was

36

that he was something better than com-
mon. All men are said to respect vir-
tue, and consequently the aberration of
Monteagle was very comforting to such
as had previously regarded him with a
sentiment approaching to envy. We
may as well say, also, in this place, that
the love of Julia Vandewater had been
won as. much by the unusual sobriety
and decorum of Monteagle's conduct as
by his personal and intellectual endow-
ments. She regarded bim as a very un-
common young man ; and it may be
perceived by the importance which Blod-
get attached to his 'secret,' that Julia
was regarded as a great prize, and one
not to be aspired to by every young fel-
low in San Francisco.  Julia Vande-
water could have commanded the admi-
ration of any bachelor in California,
whatever might have been his talents and
acquirements, with the one exception of
.Lorenzo Monteagle, who, while he re-
garded her with the affection of a brother,
had-lived under the same roof with the
young lady long enough to know that he
could never feel toward her as he ought'
to feel towards the woman whom he!
made his partner for life. But this con-
clusion had not been formed upon any
improprieties in the conduct or conversa-
tion of the young lady. Had Monteagle
a brother who was enamored of Julia, he
would have rejoiced to have seen a union
take place between them : but there was
the important point-it was necessary to
be enamored first, for without that he
believed that respect and  friendship
could not insure a happy marriage. On
her part Julia loved sincerely, and for
nothing more than for the virtuous and
circumspect deportment of Monteagle.
I have said that our youth had been
fascinated with Maria. He was, in high

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

I spirits; he was pleased with the idea of
having gained so pretty and genteel a
F mistress, for she had in the tenderest
manner, consented to be exclusively his
as long as he might feel disposed tokeep
her, Patting him on his bump of benev-
olence with her taper finger, she had said,
' Pretty American lad, I love you much.
I love your face. I love your figure, and
your voice. I shall be much please with
you to-day and to-morrow all the same.
Oh, you is one pretty. Come up to my
room and y'u shall see how I love you,
mine friend.'
Monteagle obeyed this tender request.
From such lips and enforced with a voice
ringing like a silver-bell, it was impossi-
ble for him to disobey the command.
Blodget saw and heard it all; and when
the enamored couple shut the door be-
hind them, he placed his jewelled finger
on one side of his nose, and winked to the
Scottish-girl who appeared to fully un-
derstand it.
For the last half~iour that Monteagle
had remained in the saloon, he had over-
heard a lively conversation between
three pretty French girls, carried on in
their vernacular, which had for its object
a lady apparently from Lima, as she was
dressed in their peculiar attire. Her
dress was dark, fitted to the form in a
peculiar manner, so as to show the swell
of the hips, without being wide and flow.
ing like the dress of, our ladies. Her form
was entirely hidden, except that a small
aperture permitted her to look abroad
with one eye. This dress is singular,'
and yet it is worn by all fashionable la-
dies in certain parts of South America.
This lady had spoken little since her
entrance, while she seemed to be an at-
tentive observer of all that passed. The
French girls were wondering who she


OF SAN FRANGISCO.                    39

was.   Their observations were piquant f
and full of wit;,and as Monteagle was mx
a perfect master of the French language,
he was not a little entertained by their b
funny remarks. To him, however, the d
presence of the strange lady was a mat s
ter of very little interest. As her- face B
was invisible, she might be a perfect o
fright for all that he knew to the contra-
ry, and in the few half-understood words
that fell from her lips, he discovered no e
more than the most common-place obser- a
vations  He did, however, observe that I
the mistress of the establishment-a 1
very beautiful and accomplished woman
herself-treated the incognito with marks
of the highest respect.
Scarcely had Monteagle placed his l
foot on the stairs to-follow Maria to an
upper apartment, when the unknown ap-
peared in the hall, and having thrust at
billet into the hand of the girl, turnedI
and left the house immediately.
Maria laughed slightly.
'What is this?' said she, in her broken
English.  'One letter to read ! Oh !
very good ; I. shall read you a letter,
mine friend.: So much the better. I shall
see.'
Pausing a moment, Maria opened the
note, and read it by the light of the
chandelier.  The paper dropped from
her-hand, and she stood a moment as if
transfixed with astonishment.
'She 1 Oh I She ! the~ holy and de-
voted ones!' cried Maria, at last, clasping
her hands. 'She, here--she come to
this place--and all for me-for me-'
'Come, come,' cried the impatient
youth. ' Come, my beautiful one, and
let us enjoy  -'
'Enjoy nothing. Not to-night; some
other time. . I can do nothing to-night.
a-o she has remembered me. She has not

forgotten those days of innocence. Ab,
ie-they are goneanow!'
These words were spoken in Spanish ;
ut Monteagle found no difficulty in un-
erstandirg them, and they partially re-
tored him to a sense of his present plight.
But who was this 'holy and devoted
ne ' Some nung no doubt, who had
tepped between him and his enjoyments.
Monteagle, whose passions were much
xcited, stood looking at the fine form
and swelling graces of the Spanish girl;
her tapering limbs, her little feet, her
arge dark eyes, and lovely mouth.
' Surely,' said he, ' you will not be so
unkind --'
' Hush !' cried Maria, clapping her
hand on his mouth. ' I am nothing.this
evening.  Her hand has written this,
and I cannot see you to-night,' and here
the girl sat down upon the stairs, and
fell into a deep reverie.
'What shall I do 1' thought Montea-
gle, 'If I speak to another girl, every eye
will be upon me ; all sorts of surmises.
No, no, I have it. I will consult Blod-
get.,
He then slipped a slug into the hand
of Maria. who seemed to be almost un-
conscious of the act, and stepping to the
door of the saloon, he' opened it, and
called to his companion.
Blodget was lazily conversing with the
mistress of the house upon some topic
of general interest, and though surround-
ed on all sides by the most fascinating
beauties of almost every civilized country
-who threw out their lures, to entrap
him, he appeared as unconscious as a
pair of tongs in a china shop. When he
heard Monteagle pronounce his name,
he looked up surprised: he fairly started,
and seizing his hat, quickly came out to

him. They passed into the street to-
gether.
'What have you done with Maria ?'
said Blodget.
'She has received a note from some-
body, and has retired alone to ponder
upon its contents,' answered the youth.
' Oh! I know-I think, at least, that
the lady who followed you out-the lady
in the mask-ha ! ha ! ha ! I think that
she must have brought the note.  But
did she not make you acquainted with
its contents ?'
'No. But whatever its contents were,
they made a deep impression upon her.'
' Ah,' exclaimed Bllodget, stopping as
if to think. 'I have heard something
of this. I think I understand something
of it. You must know that Maria re-
ceived her education at a convent in
Santiago, about a hundred miles from
Valparaiso, an old-fashioned city where
religion flourishes. This is a religieuse
who came to the house enveloped in the
costume of that city; and I think I have
learned that Maria was the bosom friend
of a young lady of flee promise, and very
devout habits, before she took to the
road.'
' The road'?'
'Yes that broad road that we read of.'
'Thiese are singular girls,' said Mont-
eagle. *'Instead of more hacknied mer-
cenaries they seem to be women of sen-
timent and feeling.'
' Well, I can show you a few such'--
A heavy sigh breathed by some person
near them caused Monteagle to turn
around.
The lady incognito was near them,
and the sigh must have come from her ;
but whether it had any relation to their
conversation or not they were unable to
determine. She did not look towards

them, as she passed. Perhaps that the
sigh had some connection with the un-
fortunate Maria. Still as her dark form
receded from view, Monteagle could not
but remember that it was immediately
after Blodget's proposition to show him
other females, when this sigh was breath-
ed.
CHAPTER VI.
The Ruined Wife--The Banker's
Marriage.
Tux  walked forward amid the dark-
ness till they came to a house in Sacra-
mento street, where instead of the sound
of merry voices which they had expected,
their ears were saluted by the most vio-
lent oaths and denunciations.
' How is this ?' said Monteagle, 'is it a
ring fight to which you are conveying
me ?'
' You may well ask that,' replied Blod-
get, stopping to listen ; these are un-
usual sounds to- proceed from this house.
Here seems to be more of Mars than
Venus.'
As they came to the door it was vio-
lently thrown open, and several females
ran screaming into the street.
'Go in there!' cried one of the girls,
recognizing Blodget; 'for God's sake go
in, or there will be murder done.'
Blodget and Monteagle hastened to
the apartment from which the noise pro-
ceeded, and there they beheld a table
overturned and China ware scattered
about the floor, while a stout, middle-
aged man, with every appearance of a
gentleman, lay on the floor, and another,
equally re-s ceniable in appearance, was

MYSTERIES AND MISERIES


40               MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

kneeling on his breast, with a revolver in I
his hand, and aimed at the throat of the ii
prostrate man.     .
' What ! gentlemen !' exclaimed Mont-
eagle, 'forbear!' apd he was proceeding p
to the relief of the fallen man when
Blodget caught him by the arm, andt
whispered,' Let them alone. It is all
right. I know them both!'
'You know them?' cried Monteagle, l
struggling to throw off his friend's firm
grasp, ' but is that any reason that they
should murder each other?'
'That fellow seduced his wife !' criedY
Blodget.1
' Promise, villain ! promise!' roared
the man with a pistol.  'Promise, or I I
finish you on the spot.'
' Help, I say,' cried the undermost
man, frothing with rage and pale with
terror-'Release me from this madman.'1
' Madman!' cried he with the pistol.
Is it mad that I am when I claim that
you shall marry the woman whom you
have stolen away from home and happi-
ness.. Gentlemen, you see here a villain
-a banker of this city-who bloated
with pride, and presuming on his wealth,
seduced my wife and brought her to this
city. I procured a divorce in such a
manner that my ruined wife can marry
again. I followed her and her paramour
to this city, and here I find him rioting
in a house of ill fame, while the woman
that he has blasted-my late wife-
pines in eolitude at home, where she is
scarcely allowed the necessaries of life.
Now, you villain, see if these gentlemen,
will aid you.'
'No,' said Monteagle. ' We cannot
interfere here ; but pray don't shoot the
villain in cold blood."
' His life is safe, if he promises to
marry the woman,' cried the- wronged

husband ; ' Otherwise he dies ! Prom-
se !' and he thrust the muzzle of the
pistol against the seducer's forehead.
' Murder-help !' cried the man, strug-
gling desperately to regain his feet.
' Promise, rascal, promise to marry
the woman, and I release you.'
Perhaps with the hope of making his
escape if he consented, the banker at
length said, 'Let me up, and I will mar-
ry the       '                      -
' Call no names for she is your wife.
cried the other, suffering the banker to
regain his feet, but no sooner was he
up than he made a rush for the door-
the outraged husband levelled a pistol at
his head, and in order to save his life,
Monteagle and B lodget seized the sedu-
cer, and in spite of his struggles, held
him fast. The divorced husband then
begged our two friends to lead the
banker forward. Being concerned for
his life, and thinking their presence ne-
cessary to his safety, Monteagle and
Blodget led the man down the street,
the husband leading the way, pistol in
hand. In an obscure street, they enter-
ed a, low-roofed building, where they
found the unfaithful wife-attended by a
clergyman.
The banker started, as this vision met
his gaze, and he would fain have retreat-
ed; but he was held by his two conduc-
tors as in a vice.
'Here,' said the injured husband to
the seducer-'here is the woman whom
you are to marry. I have procured a
divorce from her, and left her free. You
took her from me-from a good home-
you have had her as long as it suited
your convenience, but have now almost
entirely cast her off in a strange land.-
You shall marry her.'
The clergyman and all the others

present said that it was no more than
justice. Finding there was no other
way, the banker yielded and married
the woman whom he had seduced.
After witnessing the ceremony, and
receiving the hearty thanks of the late
husband, Blodget and Monteagle with-
drew.
'What do you think of this scene ?'
said Blodget to Monteagle, as soon as
they were alone together in the street.
'I think it is a hard case in every view
of it,' returned the youth. ' The man
has lost his wife-the seducer has mar-
ried one whom he cannot love, and the
new wife will doubtless have a hard,
time of it with the fellow.'
'The husband was bent on revenge,'
said Blodget, and in rivetting the two
criminals together, I think he has pun-
ished both. It is not likely the wife
will ever live to inherit the banker's
wealth He will either de l a ;oi:  1
her with unkindness.'
' But shall we not go back to the
house?' inquired Monteaglo.
Blodget perceived that the young
clerk's feelings had been too highly
wrought up by the contemplation of fe-
male beauty to admit of his returning
peaceably home without first becoming
better acquainted with one of the inmates
of the house which they had last visited.
He was not averse to returning to the
temple of pleasure, and accordingly he
replied in the affirmative.
But on returning to the house, they
found the light out, and the parties re-
tired for the night, for the dawn of day
was not far off.
It was enough for Blodget that he had
inducted Monteagle into the downward
path. He did not doubt that, hereafter
the young man wou!d take rapid strides

towards the point whither he was so de-
sirous of directing his steps.
Monteagle separated from his com-
panion and returned home, wipre he wag
soon in the land of drearps.
le awoke late in the morningand felt
a little confused after his night's career ;
for while lie was not really intoxicated,
he had been a little merry, and even that
was a rare thing for Lorenzo Monteagle.
His employers were not Puritans, and
consequently they observed nothing pe-
culiar in his manner or appearance. Mr.
Brown, however, was very sociable with
Monteagle on that day, and the latter
imagined that he knew the cause. He
supposed that the young man was in a
fair way to marry Julia, and accordingly
the former rose in his estimation. Brown
was one of those worthies who worship
the rising sun. le as well as Blodget
thought that Monteagle was 'a lucky
dog.' Indeed, he would have been glad
to be in his place. Monteagle saw into
all this, but did not act as if he perceived
it.
In his hours of calm reflection, after
dinner, Monteagle thought upon the
eventsof the proceeding night, how he
had twice been prevented from associat-
ing with one of the seductive young girls
at the houses of pleasure to which Blod-
get had conveyed him.  In the first in-
stance, a nun or something of the kind,
had come to snatch Maria from his arms,
-at the second house, the affray occur-
red between the banker and the injured
husband. But he had also had a singu-
lar dream  during the night, which he
had scarcely had time to think of during
business. It now came up vividly to his
recollection. The details were as follows:
He seemed to be sitting with Julia Van-
dewater, in her father's garden, in pleas-

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                41


42                     MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
ant conversation, when suddenly the the atmosphere was filled with the most
heavens became overcast and the thun- delightful odors, and he finally sank into
der rolled-heavily over his head.  Julia a sweet slumber. upon  the rounded
started up and bestowing upon him a bosom of the beautiful maid.
contemptuous frown, exclaimed, 'I love  Such was his dream, and he now pon-
you no longer.  I will tell my uncle of dered upon it deeply, for it seemed to be
you and get you discharged from his ser- fraught with meaning, as if it was some-
vice.' She then abruptly left him, while thing more than the effects of his night's
he was much revolted and displeased by adventures.
the revengeful and unladylike look that  But the more he reflected, the more
she cast back at him as she retired. Still he became puzzled,for there seemed to be
the lightning flashed and the thunder no rational interpretation to a dream so
rolled, till, immediately after a tremens fraught with contradictions, and split up
dous crash, he observed that the man- into separate portions, which seemed to
sion of Mr. Vandewater was on fire. It have no agreement with each other. 'It
had been struck by lightning.  For a 'is one of those jumbled visions caused
time all was confusion in his mind, till he by excitement and champagne,' said he
seemed to be again ascending the ladder -late hours caused it; but I must give
to rescue a young lady from the flames. up late hours and be more steady'-he
Again he heard the shouts of the intrepid paused, for he knew in the secret of his
firemen below him, and the roaring of heart that he should hail the appearance
the flames as he approached the window of Blodget with pleasure, and that he
where, as he supposed, Julia Vandewa- had more than once looked at the sun
ter was standing. But no sooner bad he declining in the West. Once, at least,
reached her than she proved to be the he must solace himself with beauty.
nun who had given the note to Maria at  The hour had nearly arrived for leav..
the house of, assignation. He seized ing - off all business, and shutting up
her around the waist, and then the sti- store, when Mr. Brown, who had been
fling smoke seemed to smother him. His absent a couple of hours, thrust a note
mind was again confused till he found into Monteagle's hand. He opened it
himself in a wilderness, fainting with and read--
heat, and seeking for a refuge from the  'Friend M,-Unexpected business will
burning sun. - No shade was near, and prevent me from waiting on you this
he was about to lie down and surrender evening, as was agreed upon. To-mor-
himself up to death, when Inez Castro, row night I shall be free to attend you.
riding on an elephant, came that way,           Ever yours,  BLODOET.'
attended by a large number of very i The deuce !' cried the youth,' then I
black slaves. On seeing him, Inez im- will go alone.' He paused, and smiled
mediately descended to the ground, and as he remembered the good resolution he,
commanding a huge basin to be brought, had been on the point of forming when ho
bathed his temples with a cooling and had no doubt of Blodget's coming. The
refreshing liquid, which restored all his feeling of disappointment which he expe-
powers and filled him with unspeakable rienced convinced him that it would be no
pleasure. Soft music floated around him

easy matter to put his good resolution in
practice.
He slowly crawled over the hill toward
the- house of Mr. Vandewater. When
he sat down to supper with the family, he
observed that Julia was in much better
spirits than usual. Instead of regarding
him with that heavy, mournful look that
had been habitual to her for some months
past, he caught'her in glancing covertly
towards him several times, with spark-
ling eyes and something like a glow of
excitement on her cheeks.
'Mr. Brown called this afternoon, I un-
derstand,' remarked Vandewater in the
course of conversation.
'Yes, sir,' returned his lady ; 'he made
himself very agreeable to your hopeful
young lady here.'
'Now aunt, you are provoking,' said
Julia, with an ill-concealed smile of plea-
sure. I was thinking if he was a jug
what a fine handle his huge Roman nose
would make.'
Vandewater roared as usual on such
occasions. Monteagle smiled. A thought,
however, had instantly struck him.  He
knew that Brown was a great talker, and
like many great talkers, often said those
things to his listeners which he thought
would interest them rather than those
things which were founded in fact. He
imagined that in the glances which Ju-
lia had given him, at the supper table,
there was a look of triumph as well as
pleasure. Could it be that Brown, know-
ing Julia's secret, had made up a story
about himself-had told her that Mont-
eagle was truly in I we with her, but on-
ly played shy for fear of the uncle ? Was
it not quite possible that Brown had
misunderstood the doctor ; and that he
believed Vandewater was opposed to the
match, and had advised his neice to

conquer her passion on that account, in-
stead of doing it because her passion was
hopeless ?
Nothing seemed more likely to Mont-
eagle than this, especially as Blodget
had so understood the matter, and Blod-
get had received his information from
t-Brown.   Besides, might not Brown
have seen Blodget that day, and as the
youth had become suddenly silent when
the ' great secret' was told him, had not
r Blodget interpreted this silence as des-
pair of success and consequently melan-
choly, and so reported it to Brown?7
All that evening, Julia was extremely
lively, and sometimes her aunt regarded
her with surprise if not disapprobation,
so piquant were her sallies and so point-
ed was her ridicule.  Monteagle was
more than.usually grave; not only from
his want of sleep on the preceding night,
but because he thought he had detected
the source of Julia's gaiety, and the mis-
take under which she labored.
At length, when Monteaglo rose to
retire, Julia contrived to place herself
near the"'door, and as he went out, half
asleep, and feeling very dull, she softly
whispered the one word ' Hope !'  k
Monteagle started as if struck by an
arrow at this confirmation of his fears.
The poor girl had mistaken his gravity
and dullness for that despair which
Brown had taught her to believe he was
laboring under, and had ventured to tell
him that he might hope I
As Monteagle hurried off to his cham-
ber, he knew not whether to laugh or
cry.
There was something very comic in
this mistake. The blundering Brown,
with his bi nose, getting hold of his
story at the rong end, and hurrying off
to banter Julia about her conquest was

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                    43


44                     MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
ridiculous enough: but then the unfor-  At the breakfast table, the liveliness
tunate girl who had suffered herself to of Julia, and her merry laugh, drew the
he so readily deluded into the belief that attention of Mr. Vandewater, who looked
her love was returned, and undertaking first at his neice and then at Monteagle,
to cheer his supposed melancholy by a as if he supposed an explanation had
kind word, called forth his sinceredsym- taken place between the young people,
pathy.        r-                     and that all was as Julia desired it to be.
In the morning early, Monteagle met  On reaching the store, Monteagle was
Julia in the garden.     Surprised to see a crowd of people about
' You are an early riser, sir,' said she, the door. Officers wefe there asking
'as well as myself. I think the morning questions and noting down the replies.-
is the best part of the day.'        Mr. Brown was flying about among the
' I am of your mind,' returned Mont- spectators, making himself so very busy
eagle,' and so are many others, who rise that the youth almost suspected he had
early to get their morning bitters.'  lost his wits.
'So I have been told,' said Julia, with  ' Oh, Monteagle, is that you? Where's
a gay laugh. 'Am I to understand that Mr. Vandewater?'
Mr. Monteagle'-                        'I left him coaversing with Julia in
'Oh, no. I am not one of them,' re- the breakfast parlor.
plied the youth. ' Instead of bitters, I  'Ah, yes-yes-fine girl that!' cried
fall in with sweets, it seems.'      Mr. Brown, tapping the youth jocosely
'Yes, the flowers are fragrant,' said on the shoulder.  But do you know
Julia, looking about her, and evading what's happened?'
the compliment with the pleased and    ' Heavens! No!'
rather triumphant air of one who, now,  'Robbed !'
felt secure of the affections of him who  'The store been robbed, do you say ?'
offered it.                           'Yes,' replied Brown, 'it was robbed
Monteagle observed all this and con  early this morning.'
demned himself for having inadvertently  'At what time ?'
helped along the deception; yet it'seemp.  'Why, at about four -at what time.
ed too cruel to dash her new-fledged, do you ask? Well, to judge of the exact
hopes to the ground, as he might have time in which the store was broken open,
done by a single word.  Candor would you must, I think, inquire of those who
have dictated an immediate explanation, were here. Ha! ha ! ha !'
-but the youth gave heed to the more   'They cannot have taken much,' said
tender pleadings of mercy, and even Monteagle, 'or you could not be so-
said to himself-' Time may cure her that is, you could not speak so lightly
partiality for me; and another lover may on the occasion.'
supplant me in her affections; so I will  ' That safe's gone P
let her rest in happy ignorance. -I have  'What 'the little safe that we rescued
no prospect of marrying at present, and the other day , '
why should I dispel a vision which, al-  ' The same which was taken from the
though baseless, pleases the poor, delud- skiff by Vandewater himself,'
ed girl?   .'Why, Mr. Brown, that's a serious

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                    45

loss. There was money in that safe'-
'Or the thieves would not have carried
it off, to be sure, ha ! ha ! ha!'
'But how did he get in?'
' That's the puzzle,' said Charley, com-
ing up and joining in the conversation.
'Nothing is broken. The rascals must
have had false keys,'
'Rather true keys, than false ones,'
replied iMonteagle, while Brown give a
sudden start and slightly colored.
' Ha ! ha ! Yes, true ones, or they
would not have answered the purpose,'
said the lattter.
' Yet it is strange,' continued Mont-
eagle, for the doors were otherwise secur-
ed, as you know, Mr. Brown, by certain
seeret fastenings which must have been
broken before any one could have got
in from the outside, unless he was well
-acquainted with the premises.'
' Oh, the Sydney ducks make them
selves well acquainted with all these mat-
ters,' cried Charley. 'All we have to do
now is to trace out the villains'-
' And begin by searching the police,'
said Brown. ' Half the thefts and rob-
beries are committed by them.'
Mr. Vandewater arrived soon after,
and was also surprised to find his store
robbed without the rupture of a single
fastening.  He advised an immediate
search of the premises, as the robbers
might have left something behind them
that would have led to their detection.
Some persons who had gone into the loft
to search, soon came running down with
the intelligence that a man was up stairs,
fast asleep. All ran up at once, and
there Monteagle discovered, between two
bales, the bulky form of the Irishman,
Jamie.   He was snoring melodiously,
and seemed to have no idea that the sun
was already up.

Mr. Vandewater uttered an exclama-
tion of joy and surprise, for he thought
discovery of the whole affair was now cer-
tain.
Monteagle shook the sleeping man
with his foot. Jamie slowly opened his
eyes, and on perceiving there were per-
sons present, said hastily--' Ilow---what
-is is time, Mr. Brown ? Is it time I'
As Mr. Brown was not present, the
by-standers were puzzled by these sin-
gular words.
' What do you want with Mr. Brown?'
said Vandewater sternly.
The Irishman rubbed his eyes, and
perceiving in whose presence lie stood,
answered,' Why, Jim Brown, to be sure,
the eating-hojme man, he was to call mo
up in time to go down the Bay.'
' Indeed ! and so you slept here, did
you ?' said Mr. i andewater sternly. -{But
how did you get in?'
'How did I get in. is it?  Och, and
was n't I working for Jim all day, and
took a little of the mountain dew, and
comed in here in the afternoon-and
where is it, sure, that I am ? Can you
tell me at all, at all ?'
' Who is this Jim Brown?' said Van-
dewater turning to Charley. ' Can you
lead me to him ?' asked Vandewater,
quickly.
' Och, faith, and it's I can do that,
same,' put in Jamie. ' I'll take you to
him, right off, jist, if you'll show the way
out of this-what do yees call it ?  A
church is it ?'
The Irishman affected such blind stu-
pidity that Vandewater was inclined to
believe that his being in the store on
the night of the robbery was altogether
aeidental-that he had blundered in
while drunk and got asleep. Neverthe-


f

46                 MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

less, he said to Monteagle, 'Keep that
fellow in custody till 1 return.'
As Mr. Vandewater went out with
Charley, he descried' Mr. Brown, his
partner, t xamining the fastenings, and
he observed that the face of the latter
was very pale.
'Poor fellow,' thought Vandewater to
himself, he takes this matter hard.'
On arriving at the shop of Jim Brown,
that worthy was found at home, although
he had just returned from some expedi-
tion, and was covered with dust.
Charley introduced Mr. Vandewater.
Jim hung down his head a moment as
if brushing the dirt from his leggings.
' I want to ask you, Mr. Brown, if you
have contemplated an excursion lately?'
'Sir ?'said Jim with a stare.
'He don't savez-give me leave, sir,'
put in Charley. ' Jim, we want to:know
if you have had any business out of
town, lately?7
Jim looked first at one and then the
other. He was a little short rhan, with
squint eyes, and locked as if he had not
shaved in a month.
' I goes sometimes to see my folks
that I trade with. I was at a rancho
yesterday.
' How late did you stay, Jim?'
' I am but just got home.'
' What time did you start to go away?
'1 didn't look at the clock,' replied
Jim, in a surly manner.
' Come as near as you can, Jim, and
give us a true answer as you value the
safety of your bacon,' said Charley stern-
ly
Jim looked up rather fiercely, but he
saw that Charley was in earnest, and re-
plied,,' Well,'I don't know what time it
was It may be'twas eleven o'clock and
may be it was only ten.'

' And you have just returned V'
' I told you so once before.'
'So you did. When have you teen
Irish Jamie, last V
Jim lookod keenly at his interrogators
before he replied,' Well, I can't rightly
tell. Not in a fortnight, I should say
p'raps, three weeks.'_
'It's all a cock and a bull story, that
of Jamie,' said Charley. ' You see there's
no truth in it. Ho must be arrested.'-
Jim Brown turned away his face and
his manner was suspicious upon hearing
these words.
As Vandewater and Charley walked
back to the store, the latter said.  'We
must see the keeper of the rancho and
find out from him if Jim Brown has been
there.'
' Why do you suspect this Brown of
having been engaged in the robbery?'
'It is strange,' said Charley, 'that the
Irishman, before he had time to think,
should have addressed Brown as one
that had agreed to call him at a certain
hour. We must make sure that Brown
was at the rancho ; and if he was, a
Philadelphia lawyer would be puzzled to
account for Jamie's exclamation when
starting out of a sound sleep,,and ex-
pecting to fiad Brown at his side.'
' True;'said Vandewater.
' Leave it to me,' continued Charley.
'I will find out what ranch Jim Brown
visited yesterday. I will call there, and
learn when he arrived, and when he left,
if the fellow was there at all.'
On returning to the store, they found
Jamie standing outside the door, and
surrounded by Monteagle, Mr. Brown
and several of the, neighboring dealers.
'So, sirrah,' said Vandewater, ' that
Brown you spoke of, says that he hasn't
seen you for a fortnight, and he has just

returned from visiting a friend out of the;
town.'
'Och, the lying villain,' exclaimed
Jamie, in a tone of virtuous indignation.
'Och, the lying, thaving, murthering
scoundrel, and wasn't it his own silf that
tould me to go into the store and take a
nap till mornin', and  '
He was interrupted-by the appearance
of Jim Brown himself, who rushed into
the crowd, and confronting Jamie, cried
'How's this ?  What have you been tel-
ling about me '
'About you, is it?' cried Jamie, with
all the assurance imaginable, 'and is it.
you. you thafe o' the w-o-r-r-r-1-d, that's
come to lie me down, and try to hang'
his friend widout judge or jury, and
widout binifit of clargy, too. Och, you
thunderin' wilyun! didn't you tell me to
go in here, and slape a bit, just till the
morning, when you was to call me up,
sure ?'
'Sir,' said Jim Brown, addressing Van-
dewater, ' When you called at my shop,
I didn't understand your object, and as
your questions seemed very odd, I wasn't
well' pleased with them; but I've been
told since that this man pretends I had
an engagement with him. It is a lie.
I've no intercourse with the man when I
can help it.'
' Hear the lying thafe,' cried Jamie, in
a towering passion, and before he could
be prevented, he had slipped a long
knife out of his sleeve, with which he
rushed upon Jim Brown and stabbed him
to the heart.
Brown fell dead at the feet of Mont-
eagle. The murder was committed so
quick and unexpectedly that it was some
minutes before the people collected there
were apprized of what had happened !
No sooner had the sad tale been told

than the inhabitants came running in
from all directions ; a large mob was
collected, a rope procured, and it was
with great difficulty that Charley and
his aids could prevent the populace from
hanging up Jamie on the spot.
Mr. Brown also tried bard to rescue
Jamie from the fangs of the incensed
and vindictive crowd.
'Let the law take its proper course 1'
vociferated he, while Jamie kept crying,
'Och now, be aisy, you spalpeens--for
there's more nor me you'll have to hang,
when yees once begins that game, and
some that's your betters, too, and as
good as'-
'Let the law take its course 1' roared
Mr. Brown, so loudly as to drown the
voice of the Irishman. ''ake him away,
Charley, as soon as possible.  See what
a crowd is collecting around her. I'm
afraid of a riot.
Jamie was finally carried down the
street, in the centre of a tumultuous mob,
some pushing one way, and some an-
other, with fierce hootings, yells, and
hisses, that were fairly deafening.
A singular impression was left upon
the mind of Monteagle by these proceed-
ings, and he commenced the business of
the day with a determination to watch
closely every thing which was transpiring
near him, and to propose to MN. Vande-
water that, in future, some person should
sleep in the store every night.
Jamie, who had at length, completed
the circle of crime by the conmnitting of
murder, was lodged in prison, and Mont-
eagle felt somewhat relieved on account
of it, as he believed that the man was
for some reason, his deadly enemy. lie
had not yet recognized this man as the
one who shot him down in the barge.
On that evening, Blodget called upon

OF S 4.N FRANCISCO.                47


48                   MYSTERIES A
Monteagle, and appeared to be more af-
fable than ever, talked with him about
the robbery and made very minute en-
quiries about Jamie, whom he thought
innocent of any intent to rob.
'It is not possible that a man bent on.
robbery should lie down and get to sleep
in the store, or that he should be left by
his accomplices,' said Blodget;' and with
regard to his stupid lie about Brown, the
man whom he killed, it was probably
told because he did not know anything
else to say.'
'But,' replied Monteagle, 'in that case
why did he address somebody as Brown
when 'first starting from his sleep, and
before he had time for premeditation ?'
' There is something in that,' said
Blodget, fixing his eyes very keenly upon
those of Monteagle. 'It would seem as
if he expected to be called at a certain
hour by this Brown.'
'And why should he have been work-
ed up to such a pitch of madness as to
murder this Brown, if he did not feel
that he was playing him false-'
'No-,no-Monteagle. You are reas-
oning for civilized people now. You
don't know these wild, unscrupulous fel-
lows, who like Jamie had prowled about
in the wilderness where-no moral or re-
ligious instruction can reach them. I
tell you that a man left wild, a prey to
passions, is more to be feared than the
tiger or the catamount.'
'You seem to think very hard of this
Irishman,' said Monteagle.
'Is he not a murderer ?'
The youth. was silent.  Many things
rushed upon his rememberance, and all
through there -as running a thread of
mystery which induced him to say to
himself, ' How little do you -know of
what is going on in the world.'

ND MISERIES

CHAPTER VII.

The Ruined Nun--The Mysterious
Note.
THAT evening Monteagle accompanied
Blodget to one of those gay houses in
Dupont street, already mentioned.
Wit, wine, and beauty sparkled on
every side, and- again was the imagina-
tion of Monteagle bewildered by the
transcendent loveliness of Italian, Eng-
lish, North American and South Ameri-
can beauties, who, although' accounted'
frail daughters of Eve, were a much
more intellectual, sentimental, and edu-
cated class than is to be found in the
halls of pleasure in any of the older
cities.
While Blodget and Monteagle were
thus spending the evening in converse
with the nymphs of the town, the latter
several times observed Blodget to pause
a moment, and sit with lips apart and
absent eye, as if listening for some sound
in the street.
He was under the impression that
Blodget looked forthe arrival of some
'other person. At length a confused
murmur was heard as of a crowd at a
distance. The sound approached nearer,
and atilength, in full cry, burst upon the
air, such exclamations as ' Stop him I stop
thief! Broke away ! There he .goes
Knock him down,' and this was followed
by the discharge of fire-arms, and then
came the trampling of many feet, and a
confused roar as of a mighty concourse
in motion.
Every one in the house flew to the
windows and doors; but nothing was
to be seen except a crowd of people hur-
rying along with loud outcries.

1

OF SAN

N

'What is the matter?' inquired Mont-
eagle of a person whom he knew, and
who just then paused opposite the win-
dow.
'Oh, nothing much, sir,' was the care-
less reply. ' A fellow confined for mur-
der has broken loose ; but that we shall
always have while such a police exists.'
' There 's next to no lair in San Fran-
cisco,' observed Blodget, ' but do you
think, my good man, that the .Irishman,
-that the prisoner-will get clear?'
'I don't know,' said the other, moving-
on, while Monteagle quickly said, 'So,
you think it's Jamie?'
'Who else can it be t' said Blodget,
'he is the man who has been arrested
for murder/
' Of course,' returned the youth, and
yet he thought it strange that Bledget
had hesitated when he first mentioned
the Irishman, and he connected it with
the fact that Blodget had seemed to be
listening all the evening as if in anticipa-
tion of some such occurrence.
These reflections were, however, soon
swallowed up by the gay conversation
that succeeded, and the pleasures of
wine, music, and an interchange of senti-
ments with beings who, if virtuous, would
have graced any drawing-room in the
country. Still Monteagle was occasion-
ally drawn to the contemplation of his
friend who seemed quite restless and
listened to every noise in the street.
Monteagle had attached himself to an
Italian girl, who might be nineteen years
of age.  Round and plump-with black
amorous eyes and good teeth,she seemed
to be all alive, and wholly made up of
kindness and affection.
Her history was somewhat romauntic.
as Monteagle learned it from another of
the inmates of. the house. She ws called

FRANCISCO.                         49
Loretto, but whether a real or a feigned
name was not known. She had taken
the vows of a nun from the purest and
most sincere motives, but after being
two years in the convent, she found it
impossible to fulfil her vows.  She was
naturally formed for love, and could no
longer endure to exist without yielding'
to the demands of an ardent nature, in-
flamed by a continual contemplation of
imaginary love scenes, which always
presented themselves to her mind when
she would ponder upon more sacred mat-
ters.
She made her escape from the convent
and returned to her father's house ; but
found no rest under the paternal roof-
Her parents upbraided her, and were pro-
cbeding to have her returned to the con-
vent, when she pretended to go to her
chamber for repose. She escaped by the
window, and as she fled through the gar-
den she met a handsome young English-
man to whom she at once told her story.
He took her under his protection, with-
out the least hesitation, and they lived
tegether, in a retired part of the country
several weeks. This young man was of
a warm temperament, and here comes the
strangest part of the story. He was so
smitten by her charms that they upset his
reason, and he went raving mad. Though
she was actually at his disposal, he im-
agined that she was some great princess
whose love he had sought in vain, and
under this strange belief, he, one day
threw himself from a cliff into a bed of
rocks on the sea-shore and was killed.-
She took possession of his mangled body
and his effects, found out his friends and
delivered them into their hands.
She mourned long and bitterly for the
loss of her lover ; but her passionate na-
ture again prevailed, and she accepted


50           -         MYSTERIES AN
the offers of a native Count, who was
soon-killed in a quarrel.
Believing that a fatality attended her
in her own land, and learning that spies h
had been placed upon her actions by her si
relatives, she came to Brazil, and from
thence, soon afterwards..to San Francis- ii
Co. Such was Loretto, the Italian maid,
whose fervid passions were kindled by s
the manly graces of Monteagle.
She appeared to be all life and soul, f
and she made a lively impression upon P
our youth.1
As the evening waned, and while he t
sat conversing with Loretto, Monteaglea
heard three distinct, though very lows
)aps, on the outer door. At the same
time, he saw Blodget raise his head and
listen. Then he conducted himself as if
nothing had happened, and conversed
carelessly with the woman to whom he
had attached himself. But in a very few
moments, he arose and whispering in the
ear of Monteagle, said-' I must quit you
for a little while. I have forgotten some-
thing : but I will return before long.'
Blodge~t then departed and soon after-
wards, Mouteagle withdrew with Loret-
to. He saw no more of Blodget on that
night. In the morning, he learned that
Jamie, the murderer, had made good his
escape in a somewhat mysterious manner.
He had disappeared behind the sand-hills
although surrounded by several hundred'
men.
The earth must have opened and
swallowed him up,' said Mr. Brown, the
junior partner.
I think that he was not the robber of
our store,' said Mr Vandewater, thought-
- fully, "for he would scarcely have remain-
ed here all night, if he had shared in the
booty.'

vD MISERIES
'What could have been his errand,
aid Brown.
' The fellow might have blundered in
ere, in a fit of intoxication and gone to
sleep ' said Monteagle.
'But why did he kill that tripeman 1'
inquired Mr Yandewater.
'Oh, the fellow wouldkill anybody,'
aid Monteagle.
Mr. Brown looked very mysterious, and
inally seeming to muster up courage, he
pulled a note from his pocket, and said to,
Monteagle--'Perhaps you- can tell why
his note addressed to you was picked up
on the very spot where the murderer was.
leaping.'
' How I' cried Vandewater. ' What's
n the note?'
' I have not taken the liberty to break
the seal,' returned Brown. 'Its contents
will be known to Mr. Monteagle whenev-
er he chooses to do so.'
Brown handed the note to Monteagle,
It was written on fine, gilt-edged paper,
and directed to " Mr. Lorenzo Monteagle,
Montgomery street."
The astonished youth broke the seal,
and opened the note. On the top -was
marked " Strictly Private."  It read
thus
' Dear Sir: You may think it strange
that you and I were seperated so sudden-
ly on that evening in Dupont street; but
a particular friend of mine was the cause,
as you saw. If you are at liberty this
evening call without fail to see me, but
not at that house. You know the cliff
near which lies the English barque St.
George. I will be under that cliff, on the .
sea-shore at 8 o'clock precisely. This is
very private. Let no one she it. It is
sent by a man who will hand it to you,
privately if he has an opportunity. Come
if you can.                MARiA-,'

'Ah -it is too late!' said Monteagl
aloud, and putting the note into hi
pocket.
'It would seem that we are not to bl
edified by the contents of your note,' sai
Mr. Brown, looking at Vandewater.
' What shall I do,' said the youth t
himself. ' This is something important
without doubt.'
' Private. is it not?' inquired Vande-
water.
' Sir!' said Monteagle, rather surpris
ed at the question.
'You must know that this is a peculiar
occasion,' said Mr. Brown, rightly inter
preting Monteagle's surprise. 'At an-
ro the time, it would be highly imprope
to express any curiosity with regard to
the purport of that note.
' This note is nothing,' said the youth.
'It is strictly confidential and has no
relation to the robbery whatever.,
Vandewater looked at Mr. Brown, and
the latter raised his eye-brows and slow-s
ly shook his head. The grimace was not
observed by Monteagle, whose thoug ats
were with the young lady beneath the
cliff.
' You will observe, Mr. Monteagle,'
said Brown, in a very gentle and yet
distinct tone, 'that a heavy robbery has
been committee. An atrocious male-
factor is found asleep in the store that
has been robbed ; a letter, evidently
dropped by him tears your address up-
on its back. If he is taken and brought
to trial, of course that letter will be need-
ed.'
' So far I can satisfy your curiosity,'
said Monteagle. ' It appears that Jamie
was employed as messenger to bring me
this letter. It is probable that he came
here drunk and fell asleep .
'That seems to account fully for the

O -AJN UAbUJ.                      51
e man's presence. It is as I thought, that
s he is guiltless of the robbery,' said Van-
dewater.
e    Brown compressed   his lips, partly
d nodded, partly shook his head, raised his
eye-brows, and turned away, like a man
o who is only half convinced, and who has
made some discovery that he hesitates
to unfold.
At supper that evening, Julia Vande-
water was aA gracious as usual; but when
he arose to go abroad, she said to him
as he passed the door, 'You keep very
late hours, Sir Lorenzo; I must take
you in charge, myself.'
Although this was said in a tone of
raillery, yet there was the slightest pos-
sible air of reproof in it, enough to make
Monteagle feel that the deluded girl con-
sidered herself entitled to express an
opinion upon his conduct.
As he travelled over the hills towards
the town, the youth said to himself--
Would it be more cruel to break this
bubble at once, or suffer it to collapse
of itself in due time ? Surely a flame
that is never fed won't burn long, and I
have given Julia not the least reason to
suppose that I regarded her with par-
tiality.'
He had arrived at a thick clump of
bushes, at a considerable distance from
any house though a small rancho was in
plain sight, when he heard something-stir
among the leaves and branches. He
drew out his revolver.
' Will you shoot me7' inquired a sil-
ver voice, and in another moment, Maria
stood before him.
'A h ! Good night. I wanted to see
you,' said Monteagle. ' I received your
note-'
'When.'
'Not till to day,'replied the youth,'a-

OF   A N  ' A ITFTCi


52                MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

though it must have been written two or
three days ago.-
' He's longer than that,' replied Maria
I waited for you nearly all night.'
' At the place you designated-under
the cliff?'
'Yes.,'
' Then your business must be import-
ant. , I am sorry that I did not get the
note in time.'
Maria remained silent some moments.
At length, she began-' My errand is no
great things. I wanted to see you.'
The youth laid his hand on her shoul-
der kindly.
' No'-said she-" You don't under
stand. 'All you, gentlemens, think girl
love you always. Nothing to do but
love man, when man laugh at her,' and
she shook her-locks independently.
'But I am glad to see you at any
rate,' said Monteagle.
'Oh, yes, you are very glad to see m
-some--but you are more glad to see
' Whom?'
'You know best.'
Monteagle thought of Loretto, whos
witching graces and rich personal charm
had, indeed, wrought powerfully upo
his imagination.
'Come tell me where she lives,' rai
he.
You have just come from there,' r
turned Maria.
'No, upon my honor, I have not bee
there since last night.'
Maria started, and her eyes shot
brilliantly as she gazed into his face.
'Not been home to-day ?' cried she.
'Ah, yes, I have just eome from ti
house of Mr. Vandewater.'
' And who lives there?' inquired sh
fixing her eyes keenly on the fuce of t
youth.

' Mr. and Mrs. Vandewater, their niece
and the servants,' replied he.
' The niece! the nice !' cried Maria.
'What of her ?'
'A very fine young lady, I believe.'
' Very fine!? Yes, very fine-you find
her so?  Very fine.'
' Maria,' said he, in a decisive tone, 'it'
you have been told that I love Julia Van.
dewater, or-th4  I have ever given her
the least reason to suspect so, you have
been told a downright falsehood.'
You not love Julia?  No?   Nota
little bit?' and she sized his hand anal
gazed into his face earnestly.
'No, Maria, I do not love her.'
Maria was silent, and looked much
t puzzled.   She trotted her foot; she
looked at Monteagle, and then she fixed
her gaze upon the ground for several
y minutes.
Suddenly lifting her head, she said
e to Monteagle in a brisk tone, 'You tell
0' me one very big lie'
'No, upon my honor.'
After a moment's silence, she said,
e 'Where you have been last night?'
s   'I can't tell you that, Maria.'
n    ' Ah! Ifind you out.  You love one
pretty lady: you see her last night, and
d you say I not tell you where I go las
night.'-
e.   'No, Maria, I have answered one of
your questions; but cannot answer the
other.'
Maria looked down, and breathed a
e deep sigh.
Monteagle's pride was a little touched.
He said, ' I-do not know that I shall ever
he i mary, Maria. But if I happened to
fall in with a congenial spirit-a virtu-
le, ous, chaste, respectable . girl, I don't
he know what might happen.
Maria threw back her head, shook her

raven tresses fiercely, and her nostrils
dilated as she answered-'What thing
is men ! they think of nobody but him-
self. Woman got soul for somebody be-
sides herself,' and she struck her breast
forcibly, so much so that Monteagle
heard a dagger rattle in its scabbard.
' Oh, yes, Maria, I have feeling for
others,' returned Monteagle. ' I have
feeling for you, and although I may not
wish to marry you'
The girl whirled completely round on
one foot, and interrupted Monteagle by
a shout of laughter that might have
roused the inmates of the distant ranch.
He looked at her surprised. Scarcely
deigning him a glance, she began again,
and laughed till her breath failed her.
' Man is so fool!' said she at length.
' Here,' she continued, taking a string of
costly pearls from some place where they
had been concealed about her person,
and laying them on his hand.   'You
think that poor Maria give you these ?
You think I buy?'
Monteagle examined the precious gift
by the twilight, and perceived that it
was. indeed, too magnificent to have
come from the poor nymph, and that it
must be a gift from some unknown in-
dividual.
He perceived the drift of Maria's ques-
tionings. He believed that this was the
gift of some wealthy lady who was kind-
ly disposed towards him; and that Maria
had been commissioned to sound him on
the subject of his reported attachment to
Julia.
Here was an adventure, indeed, and
his imagination was at once set on fire.
- Tell me, Maria, the name of the la-
dy ?'
'What lady?'
' The lady who sent me these pearls'

'A  Lady-ha ! ha! ha! It was not
a lady. It was one big gentleman.'
Monteagle's vanity fell ninety degrees,
at hearing these words.
'Who was the gentleman  1' inquired
he, impatiently
'Who is your lady that you saw last
night ?' questioned the wilful girl.
'Oh, nobody-nothing at all. No-
body that I shall ever fall in love with
I promise you that.'
'Not fall in love? Where you go to.
night ?'
Monteagle smiled at this close ques-
tion, for he felt a little caught He was
bound to Loretto when he met Maria.
The girl turned and began to leave him.
'Stop, Maria, tell me more about these
pearls. Who is the gentleman who sent
them to me ?'
Who is the lady you see last night
and go to see to-night too?' demanded
she retreating.
Monteagle pursued, when she quicken-
ed her pace and finally fled with the fleet.
ness of a fawn. Not caring to be seen
chasing a woman by several travellers,
whom he had observed coming that way,
Monteagle slackened his pace. Maria
was soon out of sight, and Monteagle
was besieged by a thousand ideas at once.
'She tells me that this valuable gift
came from a man--a wealthy nabob-and
yet she enquires as closely into the state
of my heart as if she was the agent of
one of her own sex who had an interest
in knowing whether I was in love with
Julia Vandewater or not. At any rate,
she has gone off in the belief that I have
a lady. in view-That I am in love with
her, with whom I spent last night and to
whom I am now going i-Perhaps--yes,
perhaps, after all. this is a present from
a lady, and that Maria was charged not

OF SAN FRANCISCO.             5 3


54             ~       MYSTERIES AND      MISERIES
to tell that fact unless she should discov- The man who had heretofore held him
er that my heart was disengaged, and in his iron gripe, in spite of his determin-
that believing it to be otherwise, she feig- ed struggles, suddenly tripped up his
red that these pearls cane from a rich heels, and he fell heavily upon-the hard
old fellow who had nothing to do with beach.
his wealth but to send it about the coun-  The sudden shook for a few seconds
try by the hands of ladies of pleasure deprived him of his senses, and when ree-
begging young men to accept of it ! No, ollection returned he found himself still
no, that won't do. This gift has come lying on the wet shore, from which the
from a lady.'                        tide had but just receded. His arms were
He thought of the veiled female, sup- tightly lashed behind his back, and his
posed to be a nun, who brought Maria eyes closely bandaged.
the note.  Might not she be the giver?'  For a few moments no sound was
'But no, her errand was to the girl, heard but the low murmuring of the small
not me.'                             waves as they rolled upon the beach, and
A moment's reflection taught him, that his own heavy breathing, for he had vio-
it would be improper to go with his val- lently resisted the ruffians in their attempt
able prize to the house whither he was to bind him ; but the assault had been too
bound, as Loretto might suppose, in case sudden and unexpected for his efforts to
she discovered it that it was intended as be of any avail
a gift to her, and would experience a dis-  He now attempted to unbind his arms
pointment when informed that such was but all his attempts were perfectly futile.
not its destiny.                      'I hope you're having a good time of
He turned on his steps to return to the it, casting off them stoppers. Nothing'l
house, and a moment afterwards heard open them lashingsbut a sharp knife, and
quick footsteps behind him. He turned, if you get one at all it will be through
at the same time placing his hand on his your blasted ribs, ifI had my way abou
revolver ; but the two men who now ap- it.'
proached him seemed to be peacably in-  'Who are you, sir; and what meant
dined.                               this rascally violence t'
' A fine night, sir,' said one of the stran- 'Take it coolly, my young game-cook
gers.                                and bless your stars you havn't a brac
'It is indeed,' repliedrMonteagle.  of bullets through your bloody heart
'Have you seen anything of a large said another voice, which le recognised a
brown goat, hereabouts, sir,' continued that of the person who had questione'
the man who had first spoken.        him about the goat.
'I have not,' was the reply, and Mont-  Monteagle revolved in his mind all th
eagle, bidding them' good evening,' turn- occurrences which had transpired in th
ed to take his way to the city, At this last few days, in order to account for thi
moment his arms were firmly pinioned to strange outrage. At first be thought rob
his sides by one of the men, while the oth- bery might be their object ; but this ide
er quickly and adroitly drew his revolv- was put to flight when he remembere
er from his pocket, and passed a strong that while he lay senseless no attempt
ord several times tightly round his arms.

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

a
11
'f
t8
8
[8
,-
a
,o

had been made to deprive him of the lit-
tle gold he had about him.
Another person now joined the party,
and he heard the three in low and appa-
rently earnest consultation. Soon they
ceased talking, and approached him...-
Two of them raised him to his feet, and
one- of them said in a rough, brutal tone,
'Now, stir your stumps, and walk where
we lead you.'
But how if I refuse to walk?' said
Monteagle.
' Then we'll take you by the neck and
drag you over the beach, if the sharp
stones scrape the flesh from your cursed
bones.'
Release me ; or my cries shall bring
assistance,' said Monteagle, resolutely.
'Speak one loud word, and the con-
tents of this crash through your scull,'
said the last comer, in a firm calm voice,
and our hero felt the cold muzzle of a re-
volver pressed against his temple, and at
the same instant the sharp click announ-
ced it was at full cock.
Monteagle had as brave a heart as ever
beat in mortal bosom ; but here was a
dilemma that. would have made even
Jack Hays pause for reflection.
But little time was given Monteagle
for thought.
'D-n,' cried one of his captors, impa-
patiently, let's be moving. We've got a
long road, and a heavy night's work be-
fore us yet.'
'By-, your right, old boss,' said
one of them, 'there's been fooling enough
already.'
So saying, he seized Monteagle by the.
collar with no gentle grasp.
The latter seeing that resistance would
only lead to his being dragged along by
main force, if not to his instant death,

55

told them to unbind him, and he would
walk peaceably along with them.
' That's right, youngster, you'll save
us the price of a couple of bullets, and
the trouble of reloading,' said the fellow
with the revolver.
After proceeding alongside the beach
for some hundred yards, they clambered
up the almost perpendicular face of the
cuff, by the assistance of the dwarf trees
and jutting rocks. Monteagle being aid-
ed by two of the men, who each held one
his arms.
Before gaining the summit of the cliff,
one of the party gave a low, peculiar
whistle, somewhat like the cry of a cur-
lew. It was immediately responded to
and they set out in the direction from
whence proceeded what was evidently
the pre-concerted signal.
'All right, Jimmy,' said one of Mont-
eagle's captors.
'The divil a bit of noise I hear, I heard
only the barking of them cursed lane
wolfs that the uncivilized graysers call
key-oats. And the d-d half starved
things made me feel a bit afeard, for they
sounded like a dog howling, and you
know when a dog howls its sure some one
that hears him is soon going under the
sod.'
Shut up your Murphy -trap, Jim, or
just open it, and take a swallow of this:
I got it at the Sazerac as I passed, think-
ing you might need a little Dutch cour-
age, and that brandy would put pluck
into even John Chinaman's chicken heart.
'Come, come, let's mount and be off.'
This order was given by a voice which
Monteagle recognised as that of the man
who placed the pistol at his head, and
who appeared to be the leader of the
gang.
Monteagle was placed upon a horse,

/,


56                MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

and with a mounted man on each side, of ing his rider through the hollows and
him, one of whom held the lariot of his over the hills that lay between them and
steed. The word was given to proceed, the Mission, near which was the randhe
and they all started at a brisk trot.  inhabited by the father of Donna Inez.
'What way?' said Jimmy.              Sanchez, for such was the name of the
'Right straight for the but!' was horseman, never drew rein until he stop-
the response.                        ped abruptly at the gate of his mistress'.
Monteagle and his assailants had just domicil. Here he alighted, entered the
disappeared in a deep hollow, when a house, and sought an interview with the
man suddenly emerged from the thick beautiful daughter of Signor Castro.
shrubbery that enclosed the spot from
which the party had departed. He was
a short, powerfully built man. Even in
the moonlight one could see that there        CHAPTER VIII.
were more white than black hairs in the
abundant locks that fell upon his various-  The Lone Hut-The Torture!/
ly colored blanket; but- his eye-brows
were coal-black, and bent over eyes as  RETURN we now to Monteagle.  rhe
bright and keen as the point of a dagger. ruthless gang of fellows who had made
' Holy Barbara P ejaculated  he --in him prisoner rode on in almost total
Spanish, while his hands almost mechan- silence over the vast treeless, shrubless,
ically made the sign of the Cross. 'what sand bank which lies between the bluff
in the name of San Diabolo are they go- headlands and the little laguna, where
ing to do with that youth. But I must the pig-eyed votaries of Confucius per-
be off, or it will be too late to save him. form the scrubbing, dipping and pound-'
No wonder our dear mistress Donna Inez ing of linen, dignified with the, misnomer
loves him. I owe him a good turn, too, of mashing. As if anything immersed
for he certainly saved my life when them in that chocolate-hued fluid could emerge
two 'Pike' hombres were going to give purer than it entered.  Skirting the
me 'hell,' as they called it, because I was shore of the laguna, the party soon
sober on the Fourth of July.' Thus solil- reached a tolerably good road.  This
oquising,the Californian, for such he was, they followed for about half a mile. One
withdrew once more into the thicket, and of the party riding some distance in ad-
in a second returned, followed by a noble vance in order to give notice of the ap-
looking steed, black as midnight.    preach of any unwelcome intruder.  No
'You shall have a good run now, my person appeared, however, to interfere
handsome Cid,' said the old Californian, with their plans, and they soon struck
as he patted the mane upon the fore- off into the sand hills, where their per.
head of the noble animal, as gently as a sons were hidden from view by the scrub
father would the curls that clustered on oaks and wild lilac bushes-that covered
the brow of a favorite daughter.    these lorely spots, since dotted with
Without touching foot to stirrups, he with neat little cottages and smiling
vaulted lightly into the saddle, shook the gardens. Heaven grant that they may
reins, and the next instant Cid was bear- ever be the abode of prosperity and hap-

OF SAN FRANCISCO.               57

piness, as they have always been of open-
hearted hospitality.
Half an hour's more riding brought
them to the place of their destination. It
was a rude hut or cabin, such as ' squat-
ters' put up when taking possession-
peaceably if they can, forcibly if they
must. This hut was erected at the bot-
'torn of a deep dell, surrounded on all
sides by hills so abrupt that they were
forced to leave the horses tied above,
while they made the descent on foot.
Both externally and internally this
looked like the ordinary abode of a new
settler  But no sooner had the gang
entered with their prisoner, than a light
was procured, and one of the party,
moving a mattress, lifted a trap door
that gave entrance to a subterraneous
apartment of some extent. It was pro-
bably a natural cavern, the entrance to
which had been accidentally discovered
by these desperadoes. Its isolated sit-
uation suggested its usefulness to them
as a secret place of rendezvous, and a re-
ceptacle for plunder. One of them had
ac-lordingly squatted on the place and
put up the hut.
Monteagle was handed down into this
apartment, his eyes fill blindfolded-
but te close, damp air informed his
senses that he was in an underground
apartment of some kind. The more he
reflected the more he became mystified
in his endeavors to ascertain the mo-
tives that had prompted these ruffians to
take him prisoner in this most unac-
countable manner. He had-recognized
the voice of the man called ' Jimmy' as
that of the villian found asleep in Van-
dewater's store, and who had been ar-
rested for murder, and afterwards escap-
ed from justice. But this discovery did
not explain why he had been thus kid-

napped. His suspense was, however,
soon ended, as shall presently be shown.
The cavern was of large dimensions,
yet was more than half filled with silks,
broadeloths, laces, and velvets of the
costliest descriptions piled promiscuous-
ly together. Upon these heaps lay gob-
lets, salvers and ladles of gold and silver
ware, some showing signs of use, but
most appearing bright and untarnished
as when they glittered on the jeweller's
shelves. These things were evidently
the result of successful, robberies and
explained why the neighboring city had
been swept by so many conflagrations.
In one corner of the cavern a small,
thin, sharp-visaged man  bent over a
large crucible, the flickering flames be-
neath which shed a red glow upon his
swarthy, anxious countenance. At the
first glance this individual might have
been mistaken for one of those alcher.-
iets who, in the dark ages, sought to
transmute the baser metals into gold,
or discover an elixir that would give
to mortal man eternal vigor and immor-
tal youth. He of the crucible was en-
gaged in no such visionary employment.
Beside him stood dies and other mech-
anical contrivances for the manufacture
of coin, while a large box full of glitter-
ing 'octagons' showed that he was busy
augmenting the currency,' by fabricat-
ing spurious 'slugs.'
Monteagle now once more demanded
the cause of his detention.
' Your employer, Vandewater, lately
sold a vessel on account of a New York
merchant, for thirty thousand dollars,
which sum he received in gold. That
money was placed in your safe-'
'Then you are the robbers!'
' Silence, and listen ! When we open-
ed the safe, it only held a few thousands


58               MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

belonging to the firm. You know where the vice a turn.  Still the brave youth
the thirty thousand is placed.  Inform  .emained silent, although the pain was
us, and you shall be liberated, and if we fearful, and he-could feel the hot blood
obtain the money, you shall have five gushing from under his nail.
thousand dollars for your share.'     'Knock out the stubborn divil's brains,'
I'll die first,' indignantly cried Mont- cried Jimmy, waxing impatient at the
eagle.                               delay.
'No-you'll confess first, and may be . 'Keep cool, Jimmy,' said Bledget.' It
. u ,'                       is money we want, not brains.'
die soon after,' said a voice which Mont-  Another turn of the vice-but Mont-
eagle to his surprise and joy recognized
as that of Blodget.                  eagle, save by a low, voluntary groan,
' What,'Blodgetmyfriend, here gave no token of the agony be suffered.
Then tyis is all a joke. B ut it has been  'Curse the fellow, it's as hard to ex-
The tisis lla ok. B. itractee        gold from him as to crush it out
carried much to far,' said Monteagle, his tatglfrmhmstocuhiot
cheek flushing as he thought of the vio- of quartz rocks. He 's so devilish stub--
lence hehad been subjected to.       born, I see he will die, hs he says, be
'If it's a joke, youngster, you'll think fore he'll tell where tqe gold is placed.
its a d-d poor one before we get through Now, boys, what 's to be done?' contin.
with .it. But enough of this fooling ! ued Blodget, looking around inquiringly
Tell where the money 's to be found, or into the villainous faces of his compan-
by h-Il we'll make you!'             ions.
'Never--so help 'me heaven!' said    They were all silent, for some seconds.
Monteagle, determinedly.             At length the man that we have describ-
' Just hand me that little vice,' said ed as being employed over the furnace,
,Blodget, in a cool, business-like, tone.- broke silence, saying, 'Let me manage
' Is it this?* said Jimmy, bringing aver him, and I'll promise to make him tell,
a small, portable iron vice, from among not only where we may fnd this gold,
the tools by the furnace.            but reveal far weightier secrets, if such
' That's right,' said Blodget. ' Now, he knows.'
lads, hold him fast.' Monteagle was sud-  'Go  a-head ! Signor Maretao,' said
denly prostrated upon the damp floor, Blodget, 'but remember that we have no
and firmly held there by the ruffiansp al- racks and wheels, or any of those other
though he put forth lion-like strength ingenious contrivances so common in
in his struggles to shake off his enemies. your precious country.'
'Now, then, we'll try his nerves,' said 'My country is what tyrants and
Blodget, and immediately proceeded to priests have made it ;' returned the Ita-
adjust the vice on one of Monteagle's lian- ' Even the accursed act I am now
thumbs. 'Will you tell where the money about to practice I learned in the dun-
can be found ?' said Blodget.        geons of the holy inquisition. There my
Monteagle made no reply.          ,heart was turned to marble, and every
Blodget gave the vice a couple of turns drop of pity congealed forever.'
but Monteagle gave no signs of feeling'  ' Let the blessid church alone, or you
except an involuntary shudder and a and me '11 have a row, old black-beard,'
heavy sigh.                          said Jimmy, quite fiercely.
Again his heartless tormentor gave  'That' Saserac' brandy has awakened

Jimmy's religious feelings.  But, come,
come-there's been too much of this
fooling. Maretzo, if you can make this
stubborn devil talk, do so at once !'
Maretzo  made some    arrangements
%bout his furnace, and joined the party
gathered around Monteagle-who still
lay, bound and blind-folded, upon the
dungeon floor.
The Italian then took up a piece of
linen from one of the piles of dry goods,
and placed it smoothly and tightly over
Monteagle's lips and nostrils. He then
took a glass of water, and poured a few
drops upon the linen.  The poor youth
could draw breath with difficulty through
the dry linen, but when its threads be-
came swollen by absorbing the water
his respiration was almost entirely pre-
vented. His breast heaved by involun-
tary muscular expansion-great drops
of sweat started from every pore, while
the veins of his neck and forehead grew
swoln and purple- It required the unit-
ed force of all the scoundrels that sur-
rounded him to retain his writhing body
on the earth.
Poor Monteagle's convulsive and spas-
modic efforts, however, soon subsided,
and it appeared as if his tormentors had
gone too far, and that death had stepped
in and snatched their helpless victim
from further cruelties.
Maretzo removed the cloth, and after
a few heavy and painful attempts at
breathing, Monteagle's low groans and
sighs told how dreadful had been his suf-
ferings.-
'Now, G-d d--n your stubborn soul
will you tell us where to find the money,'
said Blodget.
Heavy, deep-drawn sighs, were the
poor youth's sole reply.
'Give him another dose,' said one of

the heartless ruffians, ' he likes the med-
icine so well.'
At this instant the trap door was
lifted, and one of the gang, who had
been stationed on the neighboring bill as
a look-out, cried:
'I see a party of horsemen making
right for the hut, at full gallop. Wo
must have been followed. Let's be off,
at once, or we 're sure to be taken !'
' Sure an' let's have a brush wid 'em,'
said Jimmy.
'Never fight till you're obliged to,'
said Blodget.
' Lay hold of this fellow,' said Maret-
zo, 'and carry him to a horse, then let's
all start down towards the Heads.   I
know of a cave there, that has never
had any dwellers except seals. There
we can keep this youth, and wring the
secret from him, or, failing that, put him
where he '11 tell no tales.'
No more words were wasted ; this
striking the whole party a3 the best plan
they could pursue under the circumstan-
ces. Accordingly, a couple of men seiz-
ed hold of Monteagle, and bore him up
the stairs, through the hut, and then to
the summit of the acclivity where the
horses were tethered. The rest of the
party followed, bearing with then all
the most valuable and portable articles
they could get hold of in their haste.
By the time the whole gang were is
the saddle and ready for a start, the ap-
proaching party of riders had got to
within a quarter of a mile of the hut.
They were coming from the direction of
the Mission.

OF SAN FRANCISCO.              59


60                    MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
CHAPTER      IX.           lady desired to meet him instantly, at her
father's residence.
The Maid-the Robber-the Race.       Sanchez did the bidding of his young
Tun reader will remember that we mistress with due diligence. He found
left Sanchez at the house of Signor Cas- Joaquin busy at a game of billiards;
tro, whither he had ridden with speed, but no sooner did he receJo the message
upon hearing the directions given to con- than throwing down his cue he rushed to
vey Monteagle to the solitary hut, with the door, and leaped into the saddle of a
the whereabouts of which he was well splendid looking horse, which was quiet,
acquainted.                          ly standing untied at the door. Bidding
Leaping from his horse, Sanchez mere- Sanchez to follow, Joaquin struck the
ly cast the reins upon his neck, and the spurs deep into the flanks of his fiery
well trained animal stood almost motion- steed, and proceeded at a gallop towards
less awaiting the return of his rider. the dwelling of Signor Castro.
Upon entering the house the first en-  When Joaquin arrived in front of the
quire of Sanchez was for his young mis- mansionfhe found the young and lovely
tress, Donna Inez. She had gone to the lady standing in the portico. She was
Mission Church, to attend the vesper attired in the.rich garb of a Mexican
services, and had not yet returned.  cavalier.  But neither the large topped
Again Sanchez was in the saddle, and boots, nor the ample poncho could dis-
In a few moments reached the square guise the matchless symmetry of that
fronting the rude antique edifice in perfect form : rich in every grace that
which many generations of Californians renders woman resistless. Her rounded
have been christened,wedded and buried. bosom heaved wildly beneath the folds of
Here he again dismounted, entered the her poncho as Joaquin lifted his hat be-
church, and catching the eye of his mis- andfore her, at the same moment reining in-
tress, motioned her to follow him, an  his foaming steed with such a sudden and
sooer haditheywp  from  neach.  te powerful effort, that the spirited animal
was forced down almost on his haunches.
sacred roof, than Sanchez related to her  'Buenos nochtes, Donna Inez,' said the
all that he had witnessed on the beach, robbei-, for such he was, respectfully.
when Monteagle was seized.             'Thank you-thank you, Joaquiin, for
The youthful maiden's lovely cheek                 You are indeed grate-
now paled till it was white as alabaster, your' promptness.
the crmsoedtill its flush rivalled the fu, said DonUna Inez.
then crimsonedtilisfuhrvlete           ' My dear lady,'' replied Joaquin, ' give
ruddiest rose, as she listened to the rude  My ear y, an  oun, 'give
butgrahicdescription given by San-I me I beg of you, an opportunity to prove
but graphic voec t s gien by Sant my gratitudein some more difficult shape
chez of the violent seizure of the gallant tan in riding a short distance on a fine
youth who had bravely rushed into the     n r
fames and saved her from a dreadful evening.'
death.                                 'I will Joaquin, I desire this night,
Da    Inez directed Sanchez to    to have your aid in an enterprise full of
Donna Ie    ietdSnhst go todifcty;nyoaboueagr.sid
a small hotel, on a road that leads into difficulty; nay, of absolute danger.' said
the Mission Plaza, and inquire for one Jo- ins
aquin. If he saw him, he was to say the ' Danger!' cied the robber, and his

*i

1
r

bright black eyes dilated and sparkled
like those of a war-horse when the clan-
gor of trumpets smites his ear. ' Let the
enterprise be full of danger and 1 will
execute it for the danger's sake-much
more willingly hotsever, if I also serve
you, my dear, my noble young lady. Oh,
never can be effaced froii my heart your
kindness to my poor, darling Carmencit-
to, after those fiends had ' the rob-
ber paused, his swarthy visage became of
ashy hue, and his strong frame trembled
with some violent emotion. ' Enough of
this -I live but for two purposes-
gratitude to you, and revenge on them
hell-born villains-then welcome death
in any shape ; for what have I more to
do in this world, when my poor Carmen-
cito lies in her cold grave ?'
Inez, who knew how cruelly this man
had been treated, waited ere she again
addressed him. When ho became some-
what calmer, she said:
' Joaquin, some villains have  seized
the brave young man who saved my life,
and carried him to the lone hut over'
among the sand.-hills. I am determined
to rescue him, and need your aid, and
that of some of your friends.'
' Most willingly,' replied Joaquin, and
placing a small silver bugle to his lips he
blew two notes, so sharp and loud that
their echoes could be heard reverberating
from the distant hills. But awakening
the echoes were not the only effect. In
a few moments, coming from different di-
rections, nearly a dozen horsemen could
be seen drawing towards the spot where
the sounds proceeded.
Meanwhile, Sanchez, in obedience to
the directions of his mistress had saddled
her favorite horse, and led him to the
front of the house - when Inez, d (eiinn
assistance, vaulted lightly into the richly,

OF SAN FRANCISCO.              61

mounted saddle en cavalier, and as the
fiery animal bounded and curvetted, her
full but exquisitely moulded limbs yield-
ed gracefully to each movement of the
animal she bestrode, while she tried to
cheek his impatience by patting his coal
lack neck with her little hand, whiter
r an the pearls that zoned her taper fin-
gers, and speaking to him in those soft
endearing expressions of which the Span-
ish is so full.
No sooner ad the horsemen, summon-
d by tie bugle of Joaquin, all assem-
bled, than they started at a brisk pace,
led by Sanchez, through the bridle-path
that led in the direction of the hut.
It was the approach of this party which
nduced the gang who had captured
l onteagle, to leave the hut in such
baste.
Monteagle was so exceeding weak when
he reached the spot where the horses of
the thieves were tied, that, even had he
wished to do so, he could not have retain-
ed his seat, in the the saddle a moment.
So, after placing him astride a horse, they
lashed him in his scat with one of those
ever-present and ever-useful lariats.
No sooner was this done than away
they started in the direction of the Pre-
sidio Road, the pursuing foe, being less
then a third of a mile behind them.
'Who the deuce can they be,' said
Blodget, who rode on one side of Mont-
eagle, to Jimmy, who rode on the other
side.
' It's more nor I can concaive,' replied
Jimmy.
They can't be police, nor even the
vigilance committee, or why conic from
the Mission instead of the city ?' said
Blodget.
They surely can't be a pleasure party,'
n pled Jimmy     For the hunstman of


62               MYSTERIES AND'MISERIES

Howth, that followed a hare to h-i,
wouldn't gallop over those sand hills for
fun.'
' And most certainly not at such an
hour,' said Blodget, ''Tis very, very
strange. They still follow us,' he con-
tinued, as he turned in the saddle, and
looked back at the approaching party.
By this time they had gained the road
that-running almost parrallel with the
shore of the Bay-passed the Presidio,
and went on toward the rugged promon-
tory which forms one side of the famous
Golden Gate.
For a few moments.they proceeded on
in silence; occasionally glancing back to
see if the party that so alarmed them,
continued the pursuit. What they bad
thus far feared was soon turned to cer-
tainty, for they saw the whole party, num-
bering nearly a dozen, emerge from the
shrubbery, turn into the road, and follow
after them at a good round pace.
' As long as we keep this distance from
them, don't force your horses, and we may
yet contrive to escape them. Their nags
must be pretty well blown, as they had a
long ride before they reached the hut; and
ours started fresh, after a good long rest,'
said Blodget to his companions.
Leaving the gang of thieves to pursue
their way, let us return to Inez and the
party accompanying.her.

' They have all left the hut,' said San-
chez, as they drew near it, ' and I think
that is the young American, between the
two that ride in advance of the party.'
'Oh, for heaven's sake, let us spur on,
and save him. Who knows what bloody
purpose is in their cruel hearts I!' cried
Inez.-
'We must spare our horses over this
uneven ground, if we hope to catch the
villians,' replied Joaquin.

' Be it as you say,' rejoined the maiden,
reluctantly checking her eager steed who
seemed impatient to leap forward.
While these conversations were pro-
ceeding, both parties had reached a fine
piece of level ground that stretched away
before them  in  the direction of the
Presidio.
' Now,' cried Joaquin, 'urge your hor-
ses to the utmost !' and suiting the action
to the words, his long spurs were buried
into the side of his charger, who bounde
forward like lightning.
Keeping leap for.leap with his fleet
steed was the gallant animal that bore-
Inez on his back, while the rest of the
party were but a few-rods in the rear.
The vigilant Blodget soon observed that
the pursuers had increased their speed,
and were fast lessening the distance be-
tween them.
"' Let your horses do their d--est !
cried the profane fellow, as he struck the
rowels deep into the already bleeding
sides of his courser
His followers quickly obeyed his com-
mands, and the pursuers and the pursued
were soon scouring over the plain, at the
very utmost speed of their respective hor-
ses.

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                             63
CHAPTER      X.           ful arm saved the life of my dear preser-
ver, still I cannot conceive why you can
The Chase Continued,         take such pleasure in looking upon such
an awful sight as the face of that wretch-
INEZ and Joaquin had now arrived al- ed man,' and Inez turned her face aside
most within pistol-shot of the gang, which sickened to the very heart.
had concentrated around Monteagle.      'My gracious young donna,' replied
'They'll catch us sure, if we don't cast the robber, ' too seldom have I prayed
this fellow adrift,' said one of the party. to the holy saints, and to the still holier
'He'll never live to see one of us hung, ones. But of late I have thrown myself
at any rate,' said Jimmy, drawing a re- before every crucifix I saw and with tears
volver, and raising it towards Montea- begged that the ravishers of Carmencit-
gle's head,                          to should fall by this hand, and this hand
'Liar!' shouted Joaquin, as he rais- only. And the holy saints have heard
ed himself in his stirrups, and cast his my prayers.' As he spoke, he drew a
lasso, which had been for some seconds long sharp blade from its sheath, and
whirling round his head,              plunged it to the hilt in the still warm
Before Jimmy had time to touch the breast of his prostrate foe. 'And now, fair
trigger the unerring noose was fast around lady,' he exclaimed, 'once again I am at
his neck. Joaquin's horse halted sudden- your service.'
ly, bringing Jimmy to the earth with ' Let us ride like the wind, Joaquin,'
such violence, as to break his neck. said Inez impatiently.
' Don't mind, Jimmy, but spur for     Joaquin was in his saddle, and his
your lives,' cried Blodget, as he urged horse at full speed in an instant.
on his own steed, and that to which     But the few moments that had elapsed
Monteagle was lashed. Maretzo instant- had sufficed for Blodget and his troop to
ly taking the place just before occupied be almost out of sight.
by Jimmy.                               ' They will surely escape us,' cried the
The lassoing of Jimmy necessarily maiden.
caused some delay to the pursuing party, ' No donna,' said Sanchez respectfully.
which the pursued made good use of to ' They have turned down to the beach,
increase the distance between them. and before they ride a quarter of a mile
Joaquin sprang from his horse to dis- they will reach a rock that runs out into
engage his lasso from the neck of the the sea, round which they cannot pass
fallen man, and in turning the body for but at low tide, and even then with
that purpose, brought the face of the vil- great risk.'
lain into the full light of the moon.   While Sanchez was speaking, Blood-
'Holy Virgin. Thanks, thanks. A get and his comrades had reached the
golden candlestick shall grace your point alluded to.
shrine,' and his eye sparkled, and a gleam  'By G-d,' cried Blodget, ' here we
of joy shot over his swarthy visage.  are, brought up, all standing,' as he
'Gracious Heavens !' exclaimed Inez. reined his horse, and gazed angrily up-
'Why Joaquin, though the holy saints on the white breakers that da-shed against
know how thankful I am that your skil- the base of the high and jgged rek,

I


64                     MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
' This that you fear will ruin us, will sudden and powerful jerk turned his
prove our safety,' said Maretzo. 'I head in the direction of the shore they
know this spot well. Though close at had just left, where he quickly regained
the foot of the cliff the water is deep, a sure footing.
little way farther out, it is comparatively  'Donna Inez,' said the robber, 'to pass
shoal, and the blue water will hardly here is impossible. Either those fellows
reach our horses girths, though the foam know some secret ford around this rock,
and spray of the breakers may dash over or else the tide has risen unusually fast
our heads. Follow me closely, deviate since they passed.  At all events we
not a single inch right or left, and my cannot follow them. The tide is rising
life for it, I'll bring you safely through.' and it will be many hours before it will
So speaking, Maretzo, taking the horse be possible to pass here. Before that
of Monteagle by the bridle, rode fear- time they will be beyond our reach.'
lessly into the seething and foaming    'Cannot we ascend these cliffs, and
cauldron that roared around the project- thus cut them off.' said Inez.
ing rocks.                             'No, donna,' replied  Sanchez, 'we
He was followed by Blodget and the must go back for a long distance before
rest of the party, and though the stout- we meet with a place which even a rab-
est of them quailed when the tumbling bit could get up.'
waves reached their knees, and the cold Reluctantly Inez admitted the force of
spray dashed blindingly in their eyes, these remarks, and slowly turned her
yet they continued on, seeing that the horse's head in the direction of the city.
steeds of Maretzo and Monteagie kept    'They have some motive, beside mur-
their footing in the yeasty waves,   der, in going to all this trduble, else had
When Inez and her friends reached they killed him when they st met him.'
the point around which Monteagle had ' What motive could they have ?' ask-.
disappeared with his~ capturers, their ed Inez.
first impulse was to follow, but Joaquin ' Perhaps, to keep him concealed, un-
commanded his party to halt, till he first til they could obtain a heavy ransom for
attempted the dangerous passage. Inez, his release.'
however, refusing to let him risk the at- ' But from whom could they expect
tempt alone, spurred her steed and dash- such a ransom ; for the youth is neither
ed boldly into the roaring and foaming rich himself nor has he rich relatives, at
waters with him.                     least not in this country.'
They naturally kept as close to the  'May not some of the desperadoes
face of the cliff as possible, supposing with which the city abounds, have heard
they would there find the shoalest water, of the gallant manner in which the youth
but before, they had proceeded many rescued you from the flames, and trust
paces the horse rode by Inez began to to, obtain from the generosity of your
plunge and rear franticly, frightened by father'a round sum for the ransom of
the noise and dash of the waves.  The the savior of his daughter.
maiden lost all control of the terrified  Inez admitted the plausibility of this
animal, when Joaquin, seeing her peril supposition, and inwardly resolving that
seized the rein of her sted, and by a all her own and her father's wealth

65

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

should be expended, if necessary, to re- I Robinson Crusoe gammon.  It's bad
lease Monteagle, she silently rode to- f fooling with a hungry man.'
wards ho me                             'I'll explain to you. During the last
When Maretzo, leading the horse of great fire, I happened to be nearthe
Monteagle, and his comrades, had safely end of Long Wharf. A lighter full of
passed around the cliff, they found them- goods had just been made fast. All th
selves on a clear, crescent-shaped beach hands rushed up the wharf  probably te
of some extent, the opposite end of which assist in putting out the fire. The
was bounded by a rocky headland, simi- hadn't stopped even to lower the sail of
lar somewhat to the one they had just their boat. The temptation was too
rounded, but still farther overhanging strong. I leaped on board, set the sail,
the flood that dashed into foam against and was flying before a stiff breeze right
the huge fragments strewed at its base. for this cove, where I beached her. Her
'We are now safe from pursuit,' said cargo, instead of rich goods, as I had
Maretzo. ' Even I, would not venture hoped,proved to be provisions of different
to retrace our steps, now that the tide kinds, packed in tins. These I carried
has risen so much.'                   to the cave.  That night it blew bard,
' Well,-old fellow, we had a d-d tight and the lighter went to pieces. But,
squeeze of it, that's a fact. I thought here we are at our journey's end.' So
at one time we were all going to a place saying; Maretzo, again taking the lead
where you wouldn't have to spend much went boldly in among the breakers.-
for fuel for your furnace, eh, Maretzo ?' Blodget followed, leading the horse of the
The Italian merely made some stale young man, and the remainder of the par
joke about the improbability of Blod- ty brought up the rear. For a few no-
get's ever dying by water while there ments, they proceeded on ; now turning
was any rope in the world- to the right hand, now to the left, to
' How far yet to this cavern ?' inquir- avoid some vast rock that blocked their
e     dget                            way, or to escape falling into some hole in
' It's under yonder head?' was the re- the bottom. The water meanwhile was
ply of the Italian, as the party moved at times so deep that the horses barely
forward- kept their footing, and their riders found
' But, deuce take it,' said Blodget, 'we great difficulty in making them proceed
shall perish of cold and hunger before amid the dashing breakers and the hor-
morning. I've got a touch of the 'chills' rid din.
already.'                               Maretzo, at length, turned sharply to
'As to the cold, the beach is strewn the left, and the next moment the whole
with drift wood, and we can soon have party were in utter darkness, in a vast
a fire,' said Maretzo- cave, through which they could hear the
'But is the beach strewn with provi- wind soughing and the roar oft e sea re-
sions' asked Blodget.-                verberating.
' I have provisions for a month in the ' Stand fast, where you are, till I get a
cave,' said Maretzo.                  light,' said Maretzo, and dismounting, ho
' Come, come, old boss,-none of that groped about until his hand rested upon


MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

a box of candles, part of the cargo of the
lighter. Half a dozen of them were soon
burning, and by their glimmer the party
fastened their jaded horses.
Monteagle was released from his Ma.
zeppa-like bonds, and placed on the floor
of the cave, more dead than alive from the
cruel way in which he had been tortured
and afterwards lashed to the horse.
A roaring fire was soon kindled, and
by its lurid flames the party could see the
vast size-of the cavern. Maretzo pointed
out where the provisions were stowed, and
each man bountifully helped himself, and
then they all assembled around the bla-
zing fire.
One of the gang less unfeeling than the
others, gave Monteagle a biscuit, and a
drink out of his flask, which tended to re-
lieve him somewhat.
' What think you, Maretzo,' said Blod-
get, drawing the Italian aside, after they
had recovered from their fatigue, 'is there
any more use wasting our time with this
chap I'
'I fear not' replied Maretzo. ' He is
now so v4eak that he would probably
faint under any fresh torture, and insen-
sibility would baffle us.'
'Then we must be off. Brown was
to try to find out, by some other means,
where the money was placed, and if he
has succeeded, we must be on hand be-
fore daylight to get hold of it. For the
absence of Moiteagle may excite sus-
picion, and our sport be spoiled.'
'What shall we do with our prisoner
Knock him on the head, and give the
crabs a feast?'
'No. Brown has someold scores ti
settle with him.  You had better sta'
here to-night with him, and in the morn
ing I'll ride out lrere and report prc
gress.

6b

' Be it as you say. I shall not be sor-
ry to have a few hours rest,' said Mar-
etzo.
' But how are we to get out of this
trap V
'You can easily get out of here on the
side opposite to that by which we enter-
ed. . By following the beach awhile you
will strike a road that leads over the
hills to the City. By that road return
in the morning. I'll be on the look out
for you!'
' Pick up, boys,' cried Blodget, and in
short time they had departed, piloted by,
Maretzo, leaving Monteagle alone in the
cavern.
While taking him from the horse *he
bandage had been partially removed iroun
his eyes, and he had been a witness of all
that went on.
No sooner had they all quitted the
place than he at once determined to
make a desperate attempt to escape be-
fore their return, as he felt that that was
his only chance.
Approaching the fire, he seized a piece
of wood with his teeth and applied the
blazing end to the cords that bound his
arms. For some seconds it resisted the
action of the fire, but at length it blazed,
and was soon su weakened that with the
energy of despair the youth snapped it,
and had his hands again at liberty. He
next looked around for some weapon,
and luckily found a hatchet which Mar-
etzo had used to open the cases. Thus
armed, he stationed himself at the en-
e trance of the cavern with the determina.
tion to fell the ruffians to the earth as
o they attempted -to enter, and then en-
y deavor to make his escape. In a few mo-
- ments Maretzo appeared and received a
blow that sent him reeling and senseless
to the ground.

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                          67
Monteagle waited a few moments, but no s id the cockney, as he opened the slide
one else appearing he stepped out of the of a dark lantern, while Montgomery
cavern, and fortuontely took the direc- drew the boat along to a place where an
tion in which the gang had just proceed- opening in the planking admitted Blood-
ed. At times the waves reached his get's dropping into the boat.
arm-pits but by moving forward cautious- ' Hold her steady,' said Blodget, as be
ty he at length reached the beach safely leaped square into the centre of the boat
'Who else is vith ye ' said Jobson, the
Londoner.
'Step down here, Belcher,' said Blood-
CHAPTER I

The Robbery.
IT was about two o'clock ef the morn-
ing following the night in which so many
events were crowded. The moon had
gone down, and great masses of black
clouds completely hid the stars. The
wind blew violently from seawards, and
the waves daled foniously against the
massive piers which the enterprise of the
San li , anciscans have carried far into the
bosem of their glorious Bay
'Well, if this aint a hell of a night, I'm
d-d,' said a powerfully built man, who
might nave been recognised as Montgom-
ery had it not been so dark that a negro
could not have been discerned front an
albino.
' By Vere in 'ell is Blodget a keepin'
hisself,' said his companion, whose un-
merciful treatment of the v's and w's an-
nounced him to be a genuine Cockney,
and such be was ; but previous to visit-
ing California, he had paid Botany Bay
a flying visit, his wrists graced with these
bracelets, so much more useful than or-
namental.
These two men were in a large yawl,
under a wharf near Davis street,
'Boat a-hoy !' cried Blodget, on the

wharf.
' All right!' responded Montgomery4
froth beneath it.
'Vere've you been this jolly long vile,'

bet.
As he spoke a man leaped lightly into
the boat. To the casual observer there
was nothing in the appearance of this in-
dividmal to attract particular attention,
but one accustomed to gunge men's fig-
ures by the eye, could not have failed to
be struck by the broad shoulders, the
full rounded chest, the muscular limbs,
and the easy grace of every movement.
Pity that a form so full of manliness
should hold so black a heart.
'Pull straight for the big wooden store,
at the foot of Sanramento street.  Old
Vandewater, thinking he was d-     d
sharp, had the kegs of specie, packed in
barrels of mackeral by Monteagle and
put in the old store, thinking some of us
might hear of the sale of the steamer,
and break into his store. - Brown, to day,
accidently overheard the carman speak

of moving some mackerel, and as it tal-
lycd with the day the money was moved,
guessed the rest. We can easily get into
the store.' continued Bloodget.
' Give way !' said the man we have
called Belcher, and at the same moment
he dipped the blades of a pair of oars in.
to the wat-r and the yawl flew forward.
Few words were spoken, although
there was small chance of their being
overheard, so loudly howled the gale.
When they reached the wharf upon
which stood the store, they proceeded

i


OF SAN FRANCISCO.                  69

68              MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

between the piles until all chance of s
their light being observed was destroyed. h
An auger was now produced, a hole bored
in the planking, then a sharp well greased n
key-hole saw was introduced and in less a
than a quarter of an hour a hole suffi- o
eiently large to admit a man, was made. v
Belcher Kay easily raised himself by b
his muscular arms into the store ; he b
then assisted Bloodget up. The others c
remained in the boat.                t
A very few moments sufficed for t
Bloodget and his companion to saw the
hoops of the mackerel barrels, and thus t
get posession of the boxes of gold.
They were quickly lowered into the I
boat, and the thieves got safely off with
their booty.
'Vell if old Wandevater don't svear
in the morning, 1 hopes I may neversee
old Hingland again.' cried the patriotic
Britton as he saw the Golden ballast
stowed in the bottom of the boat.
' Pull for Mission creek,' said Blood-
get,' they'll give Sydney Valley an aw-
ful searching to morrow.'
The robbers made good their escape,
with the thirty thousand dollars in spe-
cie, that had been so ingeniously hidden
as Mr. Vandewater supposed.
Great was the surprise of the worthy
merchant, when summoned, early in the
morning, by the storekeeper and inform-
ed that. the store had been entered.-
'But,' said his informant, ' they gained
nothing by all their trouble, and out of
spite destroyed the few barrels of macke-
rel that were brought to the store the
other day.'
'Then they have got all the money.-
Where's'Monteagle ? cried Mr. Vande-
water   i
' I tried to find him at his lodgings,'

aid the man, 'but he had not been at
ome all night, I was told.'
At this moment Brown; Mr. V's part.
er, entered, and expressed great surprise
t the fact of the money being in the store
f which he had not been informed. 'Tis
ery remarkable that Monteagle should
be out all night, the very time of the rob-
bery. Was Monteagle aware of it being
oncealed in the barrels, and placed in
he store ?' continued Brown interroga-
ively, to Vandewater.
'He is the only person to whom I en-
trusted the matter. As it was funds
with which the firm had nothing to do.
I did not deem it necessary to trouble
you about the affair. Indeed, it was
Monteagle that suggested the iode and
place of concealing the money,' said Mr.
Vandewater.
'Why this is the most remarkable set
of coincidences I ever heard of. A let..
ter addressed to him, evidently brought
by that fellow who afterwards stabbed a
man-he proposes a way and place of
hiding the money-the money is sto.
len, and on the very night of its being ta-
ken, he, Monteagle, is absent a!l night.
Yet, he may clear himself,' said Brown.
' It is too clear,' said Mr. Vandewater
sorrowfully.- ' I would have trusted that
youth with my life, and feel at this mo-
ment far less regret for the loss of the
money than losing all faith in the integ-
rity of my fellow-men.'
' We have both, I fear, been greatly
deceived in Monteagle. Within the last
few days I have heard that he gambled
heavily, and was in the constant habit of
visiting houses of ill-fame,' remarked
Brown.
' Well, what steps had we best take in
regard to this unfortunate affair,' said
the merchant.

'There are suspicious circumstances
sufficient to warrant the arrest of Mont-
eagle,' replied Brown.
' No-no---I cannot think of that.-
He has been misled by others, and though
I never wish to employ, or even see him
again, I would not wish him to be arrested.
So justly indignant are the citizens at
the numerous robberies and fires that
have lately taken place, that his convic-
tion would be closely followed by his ex-
ecution. The respectability of his posi-
tion would be no bar to this, for the
Vigilance Committee have determined to
make an example of the first man that is
fairly proven guilty.?
'Be it as you will, sir,' said Brown,
inwardly congratulating himself that in
this manner all inquiry would be stopped
with respect to the robbery.
' Let nothing more be said about this
unfortunate affair, Mr. Brown. Let the
store-keeper's version ,pass as the true
one--that thieves finding no booty in the
store, departed after destroying some of
the goods which were of too little value
for them to remove.'
Leaving Mr. Vandewater to make ar-
rangements for replacing the stolen mo-
ney, let us return to Monteagle, who, the
reader will recollect, we left safe on the
beaeh after his escape from the cavern of
the robbers.                   .
It was with the greatest difficulty, that
he continued to drag his wearied limbs
along over the hills and through the val-
leys that lay between him and the city,
and it was late in the morning before he
appeared at the counting house of his
employer, who was conversing with his
partner at the moment.
' And this you think is Monteagle's
cap,' said Vandewater.
I know it to be his, and saw it on his

head last evening, as he passed up Pa-
cific street,' responded Brown.
'Ah, yes-yes. Too true-too true I
Here are his initials, under the lining, in
his own writing. This destroys my last
hope of his innocence. And you say it
was found close by the hole by which the
robbers effected an entrance to the store.'
' Yes; it was handed umse by the store-
keeper. It was evidently dropped in the
hurry and forgotten when too late. But
here is the young gentleman himself,' said
Brown, not a little surprised and alarm-
ed at the appearance of Monteagle, whom
he had supposed safely secured in tht
cavern.
'Mr. Monteagle,' said Vandewater, in
a stern voice, slightly tremulous, howev-
er, with regret, - Your services are no
are no longer needed in this establish-
ment, nor do I ever wish you to tread
upon the threshhold of my house again.
Great God ! what an escape poor Julia
has bad. It was to this man I wished to
entrust the keeping of your happiness !'
Before Monteagle could recover from
his surprise, Brown broke in; 'But
perhaps, after all, Mr. Monteagle will ex-
plain from whom he received the note
the other day, and what was the nature
of the appointment it made.
Monteagle blushed, hesitated, stamu-?
mered but' knew not how to reply.--
This, then,' thought he, ' is the cause ot
my dismissal.   Mr. Vandewater has
learned of my associating with wantons,
andjustly dismisses me from his confi-
dence.
Meanwhile, Mr. Vandewater who had
been closely watching him, and with sor.
row saw what he supposed were couvino.
ing evidences of Monteagle's complicity
in the robbery. Not giving the youth
time to recover from his confusion, he


70   '                MYSTERIES AND      MISERIES
waved him out of his office with a cool, riding over.  He was gifted by nature
haughty gesture, which roused Montea- with a muscular form, and was reputed to
gte's pride, as he thought that he was be the most daring rider, and the most
not worse than thousands of other young skilful herdsman in the country. Car-
men. And this feeling of hurt pride was mencitto was the daughter of a wealthy
greatly increased as he reflected upon the Californian, and had been engaged to
manner' in which. he had suffered, the Joaquin from childhood.
previous evening, all but death sooner  'You say truly, dearest,' replied the
than divulge the secret of this man who horseman. 'Ours is a goodly land, and
now treated him so ungenerously. Turn- it needed not that its rivers should roll
ing upon his heel he slowly withdrew over sands of gold to make us love it.'
from the office, and wended his way to  They were just passing a clump of
his lodging,                         dense shrubbery as he spoke, and hardly
had the last word left his lips ere his
spirited steed reared, and had he not
been a matchless rider, he must have
CHAPTER XI.               been hurled headlong from the saddle.
As it was, before he fully recovered his
seat, a lariat was thrown over his head,
ow Joaquin became a Robber.    and 1hs- arms firmly secured to his side.
While two men, armed with revolvers,
Ie was one of the loveliest mornings of hlihis horse firmly by the reins-their
the loveliest of seasons in California- weapons pointed at his breast.
early summer--when   two equestrians   -'Make .a single attempt to escape,
might have been seen cantering over a and we'll riddle your carcase with bul-
level plain not far from San Jose.   lets,' shouted one of his assailants.
' Surely, Joaquin, this is the -s eetest  'Shoot the d--d greaser, at once't,'
country upon earth,. and we the happiest cried a low-browed, villainous looking
people in it,' said one of the riders, a fellow.
young girl of some seventeen summers. ' Curse the yellar skinned devil, I be-
As she spoke the glance of her dark lus- leive he's glued to the saddle,' said the
trous eyes rested lovingly upon the face first speaker as he tried in vain to pull
of the noble-looking man that rode beside Joaquin from his seat, the latter mean-
her; and whose passionategaze of admi- while urging his horse forward but in vain,
ration told how ardently he loved, nay, so firmly was he held by the man who had
worshipped his beautiful companion.- seized his horse by the head.
- And worthy, right worthy was she of all  The assault had been so unexpected
the love of his passionate nature ; for sel- that for a brief instant the .young Cal-
tom has a more bewitching form graced fornian had forgotten Carmencitto, but
the earth with its presence, than, that of now a wild piercing shriek recalled her
Carmencitto; who had but a few days be- to his mind, and turning round he be-
fbre become the wife of the youth.   held her dragged from her horse to the
Joaquin was the proprietor of a small earth. His arms were bound, but his
ranch, a portion of which they were now feet were at liberty, and he dashed his

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                71

heavy boots into the face of the men who
held his steed. But the same moment a
brace of bullets whizzed through the air,
and after a few convulsive clutches the
young man fell heavily to the earth.
Leaving him, where he had fallen, the
men rushed to the assistance of the fel-
low who had dragged the lady from her
steed.
'For God's sake, gentlemen, don't kill
Joaquin. He has never injured you.'
' Don't fret, honey, tisn't Joe Quin
we're after. Tis your own elegant self,'
said one of the ruffians.
' So, you d-d stuck-up thing, you
wouldn't dance with me at your outland-
ish fandango, the other night. Now, my
lady, you shall dance to other music;'
and as he spoke he seized her brutally,
and inflicted several fierce kisses upon
her reluctant lips. Fired by her charms
and her retance, the villain was pro-
ceeding to fufither outrage, when, all her
woman's nature flashing from her indig-
nant eyes, she drew a small thin-bladed
stiletto, and sent it's bright blade straight
to the heart of the ravisher. For a mo-
ment, and but for a moment, the villains
were appalled at this prompt and terri-
ble retribution. But even the thought of
their guilty comrade hurried out of the
world in the very act of perpetrating the
most henious offence, could not make
them pause in their infernal intentions,
for seizing the hapless woman, now be-
come insensible, they bore her into -a
clump of bushes from which they had
sprung upon Joaquin and his bride.
Hours after, when Joaquin returned to
consciousness, he found himself bound
iand and foot, with strips of green hide.
His horse and that of Carmencitto both
gone.
Joaquin's first impulse was to call

I

aloud upon the name of his young wife.
But all was silent. ' Holy Virgin !' he
exclaimed, as recollection began fully to
return to him. 'Where art thou, Car-
mencitto V' he shouted.  A  low, faint
moaning was heard in the neighboring
shrubbery. Again,-,md again, the wrwtch-
ed youth called loudly on Carmenoitto.
But the only replies he received were
the faint moanings, which his foreboding
heart, rather than his ear, told him came
from the lips of Carmencitto. His sus-
pense became insupportable. He would
-he must-learn all. Even though
that all confirmed a horrid suspicion that
chilled the blood to very his heart.
With the fierceness of a starving cay-
ote he gnawed the green hide that con-
fined his arms, and they once released
he soon entirely disengaged himself. He
sprang to, his feet, and rushed in the
direction from whence the sounds of dis-
tress proceeded. Better had he been
smitten with eternal blindness than over
have gazed upon that sad, sad spectacle.
Carmencitto lay almost sensless upon
the grass. Her modest garments torn to
shreds, exposed her fair young bosom,
slowly heaving, as if with the latest sobs
of expiring life. Her cheeks were color-
less. Her lips white as chalk, except
where they were dabbled with the erim-
on blood, that was slowly oozing at every
respiration of her heaving breast!  In
one of her little pale hands she clutched
a small gold crucifix, which the villains
had overlooked in their lust or haste.
As Joaquin burst through the thick-
et and stood before her,, the closed lids
of her black eyes slowly opened, and sha
cast one look full of love and sorrow up-
on her heart-broken husband.
Tearing his black locks he flung him-
self on his knees by her side, and tende,-
ly raising her, he pressed her to his heart


72

MYSTERIES AsTD MISERIES

and while he wiped the blood from her
lips, his tears fell thick and fast upon her
upturned face.
'Speak to me, oh ! speak to me, Carm-
encitto. My life ! My love !  Speak
Oh, God, what have I done to deserve
this ? Speak, dearest Carmeneitto,' and
he pressed the form of his young wife
again and again close to his heart. But
no reply came from those dear lips.
' Near at hand ran a babbling rivulet,
to this Joaquin rushed, and scooping out
some water in the hollow of his joined
hands, laved with it the face of Carmen-
oitto. But all in vain. ' Life had forev-
er left that darlingform, dearer to him
than all the gold that strews the placers
of his native land.
When Joaquin became certain that she
was indeed dead, his grief at'first found
vent in the most pathetic lamentations;
but suddenly pausing, he dashed the tear-
drops from his eyes, and drawing a dag-
ger from its- sheath, he swore upon its
cross-hilt eternal vengeance on the ravish-
ers and murderers of his Carmencitto.
Then decently arranging her disorder-
ed garments, he lifted her sacred form
in his arms, and bore it to his home-
henceforth forever desolate.
From the hour in which he saw the
rude tomb raised over the ashes of his
inurdered wife, Joaquin left forever-the
home that promised to be such a happy
one, and went forth an altered man.
The crucifix of poor Carmencitto on his
heart-revenge rankling in it.
From that time'strange rumors began
to circulate through California of daring
robberies and frequent murders, and al-
though no proofs of the guilty party could
be obtained; yet when men spoke of them,
their pale lips almost involuntarily mut-
tered ' Joaquin/'

When Inez returned to her father's
residence at the Mission, her first resolve
was to acquaint her parent with the cir-
cumstances, but she found that he had
been hastily summoned to a place at some
distance, in consequence of a dispute be-
tween one of his tenants and a squatter.
Joaquin, whose advice she asked, re-
commended that she should wait the com-
ing of morning, when if Monteagle was
not liberated, the authorities should be
informed of the matter, and by their in-
terference his liberation would no doubt
easily be effected. But Joaquin had his
.own private reasons for not visiting the.
city.
In the morning Inez accordingly rode
to the city, and almost the first person
she passed was Monteagle, who was just
then repairing to the store of Mr. Van-
dewater. Of course there was no occa-
sion for Inez to interfere farther in the
matter. Her first impulse was to ride
up to him and congratulate him on his
escape, but maidenly pride checked her,
and she proceeded on, leaving Monteagle
in entire ignorance of the 'deep interest
she felt in his fortunes, and of the efforts
she had made to rescue him the previous
evening.
Monteagle, meanwhile; sought his home
to take a few hours rest, for both mind
and body were terribly racked by the
sufferings he had undergone.
The day after the robbery of Mr. Van-
dekhter's store, a group of some half-doz-
en men were assembled around a fine fire
kindled on the.ground, in the midst of a
dense thicket, at the foot of the moun-
tains, on the Contra Costa side of the
of the Bay of San Francisco.
'He's a' daring young devil, and with,
pluck, quickness, and a little science, I'm
d-d if I don't think he could whip any-
thing of his weight in the world.'

1,

73

This remark was made by BelcherKay to apportion out the thirty thousand
to Blodget, as Maretzo, who was one of dollars equitably between them, not for-
the party, finished narration of Montea- getting a share for some who were absent
gle's assault upon him, and his conse- but who belonged to the gang, and were
quent escape.                        entitled by their rules to a share of the
'Curse his pluck, and your science plunder obtained in the course of their
Belcher, If ever I draw trigger on eith- marauding expeditions.
er of you all your science wouldn't save  For some days after Monteagle's dis-
you from a quick trip to 'kingdom come.' missal he was too unwell to leave the
.But, the deuce take it, I dare not show house, but when he was sufficiently recov-
my face in the city; for Monteagle will ered to walk the street, he was surprised
surely denounce me to that devilish Vig- to find that all his former friends and
lance Committee, and then my fun's up,' associates either passed him with a slight
said Blodget.                        nod of recognition, or gave him the cut
'Well, old fellow)' said Kay, '1'll see direct. He was entirely at a loss to ac-
that you're well suplied with everything count for their conduct. Being out of a
needful, till this thing blows over. You situation was not such an unusual thin
stay out here and make yourself comfort- in San Francisco, as to make a man's
able. If we could only get this Montea- friends shun him. Nor could it be the
gle out of the way, all would go right. fear that he might be transformed from
For from what Maretzo learned in the a lender to a borrower, for no where are
city, none of us are suspected except you, men more ready to assist a friend or
and you only because you kept Montea- even a stranger than in this country.
gle's company. Well, if that aint a good Monteagle was not aware that from cer-
'un. I'm blowed,' continued Belcher Kay, tain vague hints which Brown contrived
laughing heartily at the idea of Montea- to set afloat respecting the robbery that
gle's leading Blodget astray.        Monteagle's name was in some manner
' I am this Monteagle's debtor for that mixed up in the affair. The very indefi
blow he gave me,' said Maretzo, and his niteness of the rumor being the reason of
dark eyes flashed with vindictive hate, its never reaching Moutea e ere
I'll get him out of the way.'         So t   cat hn o    g    ar.
tlfa hewhowas most deeply inter-
' Have a care, Maretzo, that knife of ested in it, was almost the onlone in the
yours will bring us all into trouble sdme whole city who had not hea  ofni the
of those days,' said Blodget.        cusation. Of course his sudden dismiss-
' This time it will not be the knife, but al from Mr. Vandewater's eploymiave
something even surer still,' and as he an appearance of truth to the story,
spoke, he exhibited a small bottle. ' A which was more strongly confired y,
drop from this vial, and his tongue will Vandewater's declining to assign ay
never harm us again.'                cause for Monteagle's dimissal wany
'Well,' said Kay. ' We'll think over questioned on the subject.
this matter. But just now let's split the  Monteagle, whose generous disposition
swag.'                               but little fitted him for hoarding money,
And forthwith the thieves proceeded was now by his sudden and un 'eeted
wasnowby issuden nd  nepece

OF SAN FRANCISCO.


74                     MYSTERIES AND      MISERIES
loss of employment thrown entirely des- pers were rapidly disappearing in sup-
titute on the world.                 plying the clamorous demands of the ea-
At first he resolved to depart immedi- ger throng anxious to hear from' the old
ately for the mines. Reflection howev- folks at home.'
r made he n         s  purpose.  As    Monteagle moved among them like a
he was hun n expectation of a letter perfect stranger.  He felt as though a
ofhedas from his home in the Atlantic brand was upon him; but the reason was
of credit fo   i  oei..            .t           retmsey          vr    y,
States, which would place him in posses- to him a perfect mystery. Every eye,
sion of ample funds, with which it had however open.and direct its glance  r
been his intention to buy a share of Mr. others, became cold and averted when it
,andewater's .business               met his.
Tnerwae a bn r  a d frmore p-     He was about turning  to leave the store,
There was another and far e   pon his sad feeling legibly expressed on his
erful :motive, however that prevailedpnfneeauswnheetahnd upon
refran fro  le fine features, when he felt a hand upon
the young man to refra  from leave    his shoulder and turning quickly he on
San Francisco. In the hurry of businesses houded r and  nng of the ropri=e
as in the allurements of pleasure one form fronted Mr G-, on e    prp
was ever present with him. Need we say  Ale. Here's
it was that of the lovely maiden whom   '.Ah, good night, MNonteage.Hr'
ie wahat bonefinhia the l ly de  - your Herald,and the rest of your papers.'
he had borne.   his arms from the de-  'Thank you, Mr. G    -, but,' and
vourigg flames.   .    m             Monteagle lowered his tone, while his
-Although he' avoided meetingInt cheek was flashed, Il come in again-
Castro, and her father, it was not thatin fact--I'm penniless.
he did not ardently wish to meet with  'Never mind that,' replied the book-
her; but his delicacy shrank from seem  seller. 'Here take the papere' and as
ing to take advantage of the fact that he he spoke, he slipped a twenty dollar
had conferred so great an obligation on
them, and he,feared that gratitude would  ' Thank you-thank you,' tried the
induce Inez to betray a preference for grateful youth. 'I expect a remittance
him which he would fain owe to love from home to-morrow, and then I will re-
alone.                               pay you.'
One evening soon after Monteagle's  But had Monteagle seen the expression
. discharge from employment, and after all .of the bookseller's manly face, he would
attempts to procure a situation had pro- have known that he was repaid already.-
ved futile, he wandered about the streets His own noble heart approved the gene-
in that sad, dejected mood which comes rous, and with him by no means unusual
over one, when friendless and moneyless act.            -
in a great city.                       On the morning succeeding, Monteagle
Following a large crowd, he found had early taken his place in the Post-Of-
himself in an extensive bookstore adjoin- floe line, (as extensive as that of Banquo's
ingthe Post Office. This was the gene- issue which flitted before the eyes of the
ral rendezvous of merchants, and others, Scottish regicide,) awaiting the delivery
while awaiting the tardy operations of of their letters.
Uncle Sam's officials.  Huge stacks of  This line is one of the most singular
daily, weekly, and' California edition'pa- sights in the world, composed not only of

s1~,

1

representatives from every section of our
own country, but from almost every na-
tion on the face of the globe.
Monteagle was disappointed. There
was no letter for him.
Only those who have been thousands
and thousands of miles away from home,
can understand the full effect of this
crushing disappointment. Instantly the
mindonjures up many.dismal reasons as
tlle cause of the non-arval of the expec-
ted letters. What can be the matter.-
Have our friends forgotten us, has sick-
ness wasted the hand that used to seize.
the pen with such 'avidity to tell us all
the warm   feelings the writers-enter-
tkined for us. Or has death forever still-
ed the beatings of those hearts we dearly
0vedit
Months we know must elapse ere these
questions can have a response, and in the
meanwhile we must experience all the
bitterness of hope deferred.
Monteagle left the Office almost envy-
ing the lucky ones who were tearing the
envelopes from the missives they had re-
ceived and (vith eager eyes scanning the'
lines. But could Monteagle have nar-
rowly watched the different readers, he
would have seen that in the majority of
instances the letters brought news that
had better never reached the recipients.
Here a splendid looking fellow, the very
embodiment of manly beauty, read a let-
ter that informed him that the girl, in
hopes of wedding whom he had left home
to win a fortune in California, had been
married to a man with no other recom-
mendation than a hundred thousand dol-
lars. There might be seen a stalwart
man, his rough cheek blanched and the
tears gushing from his eyes, as he read
that his only daughter-the cherished
idol of his affections; had gone to the nar-

OF SAN FRANCISCO,                 75

row house, appointed for 411 the liv-
ing. But we need not pursue the theme,
any one who has noticed attentive-
ly the 'line' we speak of has seen
matter for much and melancholy medita-
tion, even if he has been fortunate enough
to experience none of those bitter disap-
pointments himself.
Belcher Kay and his fellow-rogues
soon expended the money they obtained
by the robbery of Vamdewater's store in
riotous living. So a new crime was de-
termined on.
But it was necessary that he should be
quick in his plans, for his means were
daily becoming more limited, and he was
well aware that success depended in a
great measure upon promptitude. But
what was he to do when his pecuniary
resources were entirely exhausted.'
This was a troublesome thought, and
one which he was unable for some time
to answer satisfactorily in his own mind.
Money he must have by some means
or another, or he would not have it in
his power to carry on his nefarious pro-
jects with any chance of success, and the
bare idea of being reduced to poverty, af-
tir the life of indolence, luxury, and ex-
travagance he had led, made the villain
shrink with dread. No-no-such a fate
must not be his, and he determined to
avoid it, even if the means he should have
to adopt in doing so, he should have been
compelled to adopt the most desperate
and dangerous schemes.
From any crime, however revolting, it
might be, it has been very clearly shewn
to the reader that Kay would not shrink;
and, after deliberating for a short time
within himself what was next to be done,
he at last cane to the determination of
going for a few nights on the highway,
and thus trying his fortune. Tf in adop-


76               MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

ting this guilty resolution, the villain
should have to perpetrate murder, he'
would not have foreborne to do it, soon-
er than he would have been disappointed
of his object.
Accordingly, on the following night, af.
ter he had come to this resolution, Kay,
well armed, secretly quitted the hotel
where he was lodging, and took-his way
to a lonely road, that led- to the Mis,
sion, which was, notwithstanding, much
frequented: Here he secreted himself,
and eagerly watched the approach of
some traveller who might possess the
means about him of satisfying his wants.
Belcher had taken good care to
strengthen his determination by drinking
deeply, before he started on his guilty
purpose, and he now felt fully prepared
for whatever might happen. Money he
had made up his mind he would have at
all hazards, an therefore it was not a tri-
fle that was at all likely to moye him
from his purpose.
The place which Kay had chosen to
conceal himself, was just at the entrance,
of a dark and dismal lane, which branch-
ed off .the road, and was a very conveni-
ent place for the perpetration of a deed
like that he contemplated.
,Here then he seated himself upon the
ground, where le could have a distinct
view of the road for some distance, and
every person that approached.
It was a very fine night ; the moon
shone brightly in the heavenly arch, and
countless myriads of stars added their
twinkling lustre to her radiant beams.
Kay sat there for some time in a state
of apathy, his thoughts wandered to no
particular objects, but still his mind in-
tent upon the desperate crime he had re--
solved to perpetrate if the opportunity
should be afforded him

At last, however, becoming impatient,
and feeling rather cold, for the night air
was keen, he arose, and walked for some
distance-along the road, taking care to
keep close to the bushes, that separated
it from the adjoining fields, and where
he was less likely to be observed.
In the course of a conversation which
Belcl er had overheard between the land-
lord df the hotel and his wife af-.
ter they had retired to bed, (for they
slept in the next chamber to him, and
the rooms only being parted by a very
slight partition. of canvas, he could hear
every.word they uttered,) he had learnt
that a drover, who invariably called at
their house, and who usually had a large
sum of money about him, was expected
there that day, and he was also enabled
to ascertain that this was the road he al-
ways came; but he could not think of
making an attempt to commt a robbery
in the open daylight, and when his detec-
tion would be almost certain to follow,
and thus his nefarious wishes would be
foiled. But then, as he understood that
the drover usually slept at the hotel, the
villain thought there might still be a
chance left of his being enabled to "rob'
him in the night.
This, however, would be attended with
considerable danger, for suspicion would,
in all probability, light upon him, and
should he abandon the place, it would,
undoubtedly, be a direct confirmation of
his guilt, and would put him.to great in.
convenience in having to quit the neigh-
bourhood,
Reflecting therefore, in this manner,
Kay was constrained to give up all
thoughts of plundering the drover, al-
though it was with much reluctance that
he did so, for he had no doubt but that

he should from him have been sure to
have got a very rich booty.
The day which succeeded the night
on which Kay had overheard the conver-
sation we have spoken of, was passed by
him in a state of great agitation and un-
certainty, and at one time he would de-
termine upon some daring scheme, which
the next moment would make him aband-
on all idea of.
The drover, however, did not come to
the house that day, but Kay gathered
from the conversation of his host, that
he would sure to be there that night, so
that he might be in time for the market
on the following morning. Kay caught
at this information, and his hopes once
more revived ; le resolved to lay wait for
him, and make a desperate attempt to
rob him as he had at first design-d.
Kay was no coward, as that which has
been already related, will fully prove,
and he was, therefore, prepared for any
resistance which his marked victim might
make, and he had made up his mind not
to be defeated easily. But from what-
he could learn, the drover was an old
man, and one who was not very likely to
offer much resistance, especially when he
saw that the individual who attacked
him was well armed, and a determined
man, and, therefore, Kay calculated that
his success was almost certain. -.
He had taken the precaution to pro-
vide himself with a mask and poncho, so
that he might be fully enabled to dis-
guise himself, and these were the more
indispensable for the villain's safety, as
he intended to return to the hotel after
the perpetration of the robbery.
Impatient and gloomy, Kay continued
to traverse the road for some time, but
still he saw no signs of the traveller or
of any other person, and he began to des-

pair. The place was sufficiently quiet
and lonely to inspire no very pleasant re-
flections in the mind of Kay, and so rap-
idly did they crowd upon his brain, that
he had not strength to endure them, and
he almost made up his mind to abandon
his villainous project, and return to the
hotel to seek that society which might
alone banish such fearful thoughts.
At length the solemn booming of the
Mission bell vibrated on the air, toll-
ing the hour of ten, and Kay, whose pa-
tience was now quite tired out, and whose
disappointment could only be equalled
by chagrin, resolved to wait no longer
but to return to the hotel.
He had just turned round for that pur.
pose, when the low trampling of horses'
hoof, ata distance, arrested his purpose
and r kindled his hopes.
Th.) sounds proceeded from behind
him, and looking eagerly along the road
as far as his eyes could penetrate, at first
be could not perceive anything, but at
length he beheld a horse trotting slowly
along the road, in the direction of the
place where he was standing, and bearing
on his back a person who he was unable
at present, to observe, distinctly.
'It must be him!' muttered Kay to
himself, and hope once more elated and
nerved him. His mind was fully made
up; he would have all the money thegra-
zier had about him, even. if to obtain it
he had to embrue his haud sin his blood.
Quickly the miscreant glided cautious-
ly along the darkest and most overshad-
owed part of.-theroad, and le once more
reached the entrance to the lane which the
traveller must pass; and which appeared
to him to be the most convenient spot for
the perpetration of the deed.
'But-but'-muttered Kay, 'I will
not harm him-no-no-I will not harm
him, if I can avoid it! I do not want

OF SAN FRANCISCO.              77


78               MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

his blood, but his money, it will be his
own fault should he lose his life.'
Nearer and nearer the rider approach-
ed, and at length he had got to within a
very short distance of the place where
Kay was concealed, and by the bright
light of the moon, he was enabled to have
a distinct view of his person.
He was a thickset man, about sixty,
and carried with him a short whip with
a very heavy handle.' He was whistling
merrily along the road, apparently, quite
happy and unsuspicious of any danger,
and what Kay could perceive of his fea-
tures, he looked like a man who was not
likely to be easily intimidated. Again
be muttered to himself,-.
'I hope he will resign hip money eas-
ily; I hope he will not make any resist-
ance; I would not have his blood upon
my conscience, but his money I will
have.'
The man had now got to within a very
short distance of the lane, and Kay had
no doubt from the description which had
been given of him, that this was the
grazier.
He clenched his fist~nervously, and in-
voluntarily placed his other hand on* one
of-the pistols which he carried with him.
. 'I will let him pass me,' thought Kay,
'I will let him pass me before I pounce
out upon him, and then I shall take him
more by surprise, and he will be less
likely to offer any resistance.'.
The traveller had now left off whist-
ling, and had broke into a negro melody,
which he sang in self-satisfied tones, but
which were anything but harmonious.,
-'Your money or your life !' cried Kay
in a disguised voice, rushing up to
the traveller, from his place of conceal.
ment,-and laying hold of the horse's bri-
dle.

The old man, was of course, rather
startled, but he collected himself in a
moment, and with the utmost coolness,
said:-
'I tells thee what it is, young nan,
your'e on a bad errand, and I advise you
let go the bridle, and go about your bu-
siness, before harm come to you.'
- There, there, no nonsense,' replied
Kay, in an impatient tone; 'I am a des-
perate man and must have money.'
'D-n you, you are a daring rascal,'
cried the traveller, 'let go of the bridle;
or it may not be long ere I make you re-
pent thy job. Leave go of the bridle, I
again-tell you! You won't, then, d-u
me, if I don't soon make you, and that's
all about it'
With these words the traveller flour-
ished his heavy whip, and aimed a blow
at the head of Kay with the butt-end of
it, which if he had not stepped quickly
aside and avoided would, in all probabil-
ity have deprived him immediatety of far-
ther power.-
'Old idiot.! cried the enraged ruffian,
' you will urge me to that which I would
rather avoid; will you deliver up your
money, I say, once more T'
'No,' promptly replied the old man;
'I'll see you d-d first, and all such
scoundrels.'*
'Then, by h-11 you will have to pay
for your obstinacy with your life!' cried
Kay, hastily groping about beneath his
poncho to get ott one of the pistols.
The old man immediately guessed at
what he was about, and sprang from his
horse's back with the agility of a youth,
and the moment that Kay got out his
pistol, and before he could cock it, he-clo-
sed with him, and being a strong, power-
ful man, the struggle threatened to be a
determined one.

Kay, however, was wound up to a pitch
of desperation, for it was a moment of
life or death, and he was taken somewhat
by surprise, as, from the age of the trav-
eller, he had not expected such an antag-
onist-
Kay was a very muscular man, and
had youth on his side, and he, of course,
mustered up all his strength for this oc-
casion, and endeavoured to get his hands
at liberty; but the old man had pinned
them with such an iron grip, that all his
efforts were ineffectual, and maledictions
the most terrible escaped his lips, as the
danger of his situation became every in-
stant greater; for, as his strength de-
creased, so did that of the traveller ap-
pear to increase, and he expected noth-
ing less that he must be overpowered.
The struggle lasted several minutes,
the traveller having pinched the hands of
Kay so tightly, that he was compelled
to drop the pistol to the ground, and
which the former was afraid to secure,
for fearthat, in resigning his hold of the
robber, he should lose the advantage
he had gained. But.at length the foot
of Kay caught in something on the
ground, and he fell, dragging the old
man with him.
Fortunately, the traveller did not fall
upon him, or his weight would have
quickly decided the combat, and Kay
would have been defeated, but he fell by
his side, and consequently was obliged
to leave go his hold ; and Kay, seeing
the moment of advantage, and probably
the only opportunity of, saving his life,
jumped to hi3 feet with the speed of
lightning, and snatching the pistol from
his bosom, he sprang upon the old man,
knelt upon his chest,--he pressed the fin-
gers of his other hand tightly in his throat
until the old man was nearly strangled, he

presented the pistol at his head as he
exclaimed-
' You deserve to lose your life for
your infernal obstinacy, and it is at this
moment in my power ; but I do not
wish to harm you if I can help it. Now,
then, your money.'
The old rran who was quite overpow-
ered by the pressure on his chest, and
the violence with which Kay pressed his
knuckles into his throat, he tried to
speak, but could only make a sign 1o his
Boat-pocket, which Kay understanding,
released the old man from the hold which
he had taken of his throat; and, putting
his hand into his pocket, to which he had
directed his attention, he drew forth a
a canvass bag apparently well loaded, and
depositing it carefully in his bosom, he
secured both the pistols, and, rising from
the ground, he said to the still prostrate
traveller-
'Beware!l you see that I have all the
power of your life or death in my hands;
if you move a step to pursue me, until I
am out of sight, that instant you die!1'
The old man did not make any reply,
for he had not yet recovered from the ef-
fects of the combat, and was unable to
utter a word; and Kay, having satisfied
himself that he had secured all the mo-
ney in his possession, hastily retreated
from the spot, and springing into the
fields, threw away the poncho, and made
the best of his way towards the hotel,
which he reached in an almost inconceiv-
able short space of time. and, without
betraying any emotion, entered the bar,
as was his usual custom, and taking his
seat called for a mug of ale.
He had not been there long, when he
heard a loud shouting and hallooing out-
side the house, and he immediately ree-
ognized the tones.
' Why,' said the landlord, laying down

OF SAN FRANCISCO.              79


80

MYSTERIES AND MISERIES.

hip pipe, 'that certainly is the voice of
a friend; what the deuce can be the
matter with him?'
Kay felt a little alarmed; but he con-
cealed his agitation, and continued with
apparent unconcern, to smoke his pipe,
and to be completely absorbed in the en-
joyment of that and his ale: He would
have been glad to have retired to his
chamber, so that he might have escaped
all observation, but he was fearful that
he might, by so doing, probably excite
suspicion, and he therefore kept his seat
and pretended to take no notice of what
was passing.
The landlord having hastened to the
door of the house to meet his guest, and
to enquire what was the matter with him
was quickly heard returning accompani-
ed by the old man, who was grumbling,
and swearing all the way.
On entering the bar, the drover gazed
round upon the different persons there
assembled, but appeared to take little
notice of Kay, whose assumed color, no
doubt, removed every idea of his being
the robber from his mind.
' He was a most'desperate scoundrel,
whoever he is,' said the drover, 'and I-
feel the effects of his d-d knuckles on
my throat, now. I wish I could only
meet with the fellow, and I warrant me
he'd not escape from my clutches again,
very easily.'
' This is a bad job, aterrible bad job,'
aid the landlord.
'Aye, it is indeed a bad job,' said the
Irover, -'two -thousand dollars is no
small sum to lose as times go.'

CHAPTER XII.
The Ride-the Midnight Fright-the
Corpse-The Secret Burial.
KAY took no part in the conversation
which followed, the staple of which con-
sisted of dennunciations of the scoundrels
who infested the city of San Francisco
aud its vicinity, perpetrating with im-
punity the most, daring robberies and
even more atrocious offences.
Kay was slightly known to several of'
the 'crowd' who had been drawn to the
bar by rumors respecting the robbery,
and as Kay sauntered out of the room -
one of these persons whispered a few

U

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

words to the drover, who turned and
closely scrutinized the robber's per-
son.. Kay bore his fixed gaze apparent-
ly unmoved. But he inwardly determ-
ined that the drover should never bear
witness against him!
A few evenings after this robbery,
Inez had taken a long ride, and on her
return was overtaken by a sudden and
violent storm. She immediately put her
horse to the run. Inez was too much
accustomed to heavy rains and violent
storms of wind to be much alarmed, as.
she knew her fleet steed would soon
bear her home in safety. Bat scarcely
had our heroine proceeded a couple of
hundred varas when her horse fell heav-
ily. Fortunately, however, Inez was
but little injured. Her horse she soon
discovered was unable to rise. Of course
no alternative was left her but to pro-
ceed homewards on foot.
Notwithstanding, however, she sought
all that was in her power to strengthen
this idea, many, doubts, fears, misgiv-
ings, and apprehensions would steal into
her bosom,-and every blast of wind which
howled around her seemed to come
fraught with the moanings of despair.
She had travelled about three miles from
the place at which she had lost her horse,
and was upon a dreary waste, where
there was nothing to protect her from
the fury of the blast and the fast falling
rain which drifted around her. It was
a most awful spot, and in spite of her re-
sistance to fear, she felt the most inde-
scribable sensation of horror creeping
through her veins.
'Holy Mary !' she exclaimed, 'my
weary and benumbed limbs will not sup-
port me much further, and yet, if I pause,
nothing but death stares me in the face.
How awful is the darkness around, and

81

here am I placed alone, and fated to en-
dure all this toil and wretchedness.
Could I but hear the sound even of a
human voice, methinks it would be tran-
sport to my soul. This silence is appal-
ling. Whenever I have had occasion to
cross this wild spot, I always felt the
most irresistable terror; it is, indeed, a
fit place for the perpetration of the
bloody crimes which report says have
been committed here, and I do not won-
der that people should shun it after night-
fall in dread, my God! do not desert me
in this dreadful moment. Oh! I remem-
ber there is an old house not far from this
spot; could I but reach that, it would
afford me shelter until my recruited
strength will enable me to proceed. The
storm increases; what will become of
me? The rain falls faster than ever; I
must proceed. Protect me, heaven!'
Trembling in every limb, and her
knees smiting each other, Inez forced
her way as well she was able, in the di-
rection of the old house, which she at
length perceived at no great distance
from her, and so completely exhausted
was she, that had she had to have pro-
ceeded many yards further she must have
sunk to the earth. It was an old build-
ing, broken irr many parts. -
An old story gave the place a kind of
fearful interest; and there was one pe-
riod when Inez would not have ventured
within its precints, but now she thought
nothing about it; she thought only of
her weary and exhausted state. She
reached the wretched place, and found
no obstruction to her entrance, the door
having long since been torn off its hinges,
and she, therefore, staggered into the
place, and threw herself, exhausted and
breathless, upon a heap of rubbish in one
corner, to rest herself for a few minutes,

I


82

MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

ere she could see what was best to be
done for her accomodation for theidght.
The house was divided into two compart-
ments, and one of these was in much
better condition than the other. There,
then, Inez determined to remain till day-
break; and gathering together some
pieces of old boarding which had fallen
from different parts of the building, and
a heap of straw, which she found in one
corner, she retired into it, contrived to
make herself up some kind of a rude pal-
let, piled all the old rubbish she could
find against the door which opened into
this division of the house, and then im-
ploring the protection of Heaven, she
wrapped herself closely in her cloak, and
llid down.
Completely wearied out, it was not
long ere she was -about to si k off to
sleep, when she was suddenly  armed
and astonished by hearing a noise outside
the building, and soon after, a light glim-
mered between the crevices, and the hor-
.ror and amazement of Inez may be easi-
ly conjectured when she caught a glimpse
of the shadow of two men, bearing some-
ring which seemed to be very heavy
between them. They moved stealthily
and cautiously round by the -side of the
building towards the entrance, and Inez
had not the least doubt but that they
were coming there; in a nother second
her conjectures were confirmed, and she
heard them deposit their burthen in the
adjoining shed to that in which she was.
How shall we attempt to portray the
terror of Inez at this circumstance 2
She didnot venture to breathe scarcely,
and screwed herself into the smallest
possible compass in the corner, for fear
that the men should discover her there
but, from a small hole in the boards, sh
could perceive what was'passing.

'My God!' she thought, ' what can
be the purpose of these men? Certainly
no good,'at such an hour.'
Inez placed her eye to the hole in the
boarding, and perceived that they were
two powerful men, dressed in ponchos,
and as the rays of the light fell upon
their countenances, she shuddered at
their aspects.
They had placed the sack upon the
floor, and began digging up the earth
with a couple of spades which they had
brought with them. A deadly chill fell
upon the heart of Inez when she beheld
this, and she could scarcely repress a
scream, as a dreadful idea shot through
her brain.,-                       .
'Horror! horror!' she reflected, 'the
wretches have surely been committing
murder, and have come hither to bury
their unfortunate victim.'-
'There, we shall soon be able to make
a snug lodging for him,' said one of the
villains, taking up a spade and prepa-.
ring to begin to dig, 'and no one will
ever know what has become of him.
How nicely we gammoned the old fool
to take up his lodging with us.'
'You're right,' said the other, 'it was
very well done, and I must give you the
credit of doing the best part towards it.
If the friends of the old drover look for
his return home, how woefully deceived
they will be.'
'Ha! ha! ha!' laughed the first vil-
lain, 'indeed they will. Well, we have
got a very tidy booty for this job,'
'Yes, it will pay us for the trouble
we have been at,' was the answer; 'but
I'll warrant that we shall circulate the
blunt a little more freely than the old
fellow would have done. We must not
e be in the city many days.' .
' As soon as the job's over we will

I,

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

quit the spot,' returned his companion,
' and it will be many a long day ere we
shall revisit this neighborhood again.
We couldn't have fixed a much better
place than this to deposit the old fel-
low's remains in ; but, I say, there is a
door yonder, which seems to lead to an-
other part of the house; suppose we ex-
amine that, and see whether it will serve
better to conceal the bodyof the mur-
dered man in than this.'
- 'Great God!' thought Inez, 'I am
lost; they will discover and murder me.
By what horrible fatality were my foot-
steps guided to this place?'
'Psha! what's the use of talking in
that manner, Kay?' said the other ruf-
fian, to whom this proposition was ad-
dressed; 'we have no time to spare; be-
sides, we have half dug the grave here,
and I dare say the old chap will lie-as
contented here as he would a foot or
two off. Come, come, let's, finish the
business and begone, for I am almost ti-
red of it, and if we remain here much
longer, there's no knowing but that we
might be discovered.'
'Oh, very well,' said Kay, as the oth-
er man had called him, 'it matters very
litlle, so let's go to work, and get done
as quick as possible'
'I think we have given him   depth
enough,' remarked the other wretch,
'and he'll not pop up again in a hurry
by himself. Come, out with him, and
let's finish the job at once.'
This, as may be imagined, was a mo-
ment of unutterable horror to our he-
roine, who had watched the proceedings,
and listened to the conversation of the
assassins with the most breathless atten-
tion; and a shuddering seized upon her
freme which she found it impossible to
resist.-It would, however, be useless to

83

attempt to describe the relief she felt
when she heard the observations of the
first ruffian, by which he was persuaded
from entering the place in which she was
concealed; but every moment that they
prolonged their stay increased*her ter-
ror and anxiety, for fear that her infant
should awake, and, crying loud, betray
her.
After having untied the mouth of the
sack, they drew it nearer to the edge of
the grave they had been digging, and
turned out the body of a stout but aged
man, whose long grey locks were mat-
ted together with large clots of blood
that had issued from several deep wounds
in the skull.
Horror enchained all the faculties of
Inez, and with distended eyelids, she fix-
ed her straining eyeballs upon the dread-
ful specacle.
Her blood seemed turned to ice, and
her heart seemed almost to cease its pul-
sation. Should the wretches find out
that she was there concealed, and had
been watching them, and overheard the
the acknowledgement of their dreadful
crime, the'death of herself would be cer-
tain to follow.
These reflections passed rapidly in the
mind of Inez, as she watched, in a state
of the most breathless suspense, the ac-
tions of the murderers, as they, in the
most callous manner, tossed the body of
their wretched victim into the grave they
had dug for its reception, and commen-
ced filling it up, occupying the interval
during the disgusting scene, with the
most ribald conversation, which smote
the heart of our heroine with horror, as
she listened to it,
' There,' exclaimed Kay, as he placed
the last spade-full of earth on the grave
of their murdered victim, 'that job's fin-


$,4                  MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
ished, and a long and sound rest to the ings of our heroine, as the ruffian, Kay,
old drover. The business has been per- approaches e , do, adtid.
formed throughout in a tradesman-like  Such was the violenceof her agitation,
manner, and no suspicion can ever attach that cold drops of perspiration stood
itself to us.' upon her forehead, and it was only by a
'Suspicino'reiterated the other with a complete miracle that she could prevent
laugh, oh no, we might almost as well herself from screaming.
imagine that somebody has been watch-  Kay tried hard to push the door open,
ing us all this time in this lonely place, and swore when he found theobstruction;
as to suppose that even the shadow-of and at that moment, when Inez had
an idea of we being the mdrderers of the nearly given herself up for lost, some
old man could attach itself to us.'  noiseon the outside of the building, ar-
' Ait' exclaimed Kay, 'your obser- rested the attention of both the villains,
vation have started an idea in my head, and Kay immediately quitted the door,
and, had you attended to my suggestion much to the relief of our heroine.
in the first instance, we should have been t  list?' muttered Blodget, in a can-
secured from any danger of the sort.'  tious tone, 'did you not hear a noise
'What mean you?'                   outside, Belcher?'
'What mean I:-why; that door,        'I fancied I did,' was the reply.
which, as I before observed, no doubt,  'Extinguish the light,', commanded
communicates with some other part of the other, 'and I will reconoitre.'
the house, and it is not at all unlikely  Kay immediately did as his compan-
that some weary traveller may have ta- ion directed hin, and Blodget cautious-
ken up his lodging there, or sought shel- ly opened the dopr and looked out. As
ter from the storm, and been listening he did so, Inez could hear that the
to our discourse all this time. Should storm had increased in violence, and im-
such be the case, we shall not go far mediately afterwards she heard the
without falling into the hands of the Vig- voice of Blodget, observing,-
ilance Committee, depend upon it. I'll  ' Oh, the coast is quite clear, as far
examine the place.'                  as I can see, and, therefore, it could on-
'Bah! why, you are growing worse ly have been fancy; but, notwithstand-
than a child, Kay,' said the miscreant's ing, Kay, I do not see the policy of re-
companion, 'I never heard such improb- maining here. - We had much better,
able ideas to strike a fellow in all my on the contrary, make our escape as
life. Do you think any person could be speedily as possible, while we have the
within here all this time without betray- opportunity; for, should we be discover-
ing some signs of terror?'           ed .here, and the fresh earth upon the
You may laugh at me as much as new made grave, we should be bowled
you like, Blodget,' returned Kay, 'but out to a, dead certainty. It's madness
I am generally pretty correct in what I to suppose that anybody but ourselves
fancy, and I don't think I shall be far have been here during the time we have
out in-this'instance. Here goes for to been performing the funeral obsequies
see'                                 for the old man. Come, come, no more
We must fail here to portray the feel- of this foolery, but travel's the word.-i

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                            85
And 'travel' was not only the word, place where she had witnessed such hor-
bat the action of the wretches, much to rors, and with difficulty made her
the relief of our heroine, who had al- in what se judged to be the direction of
most given her mind to despair; and her father's house. This she would ne-
after a short time had elapsed since they ver have had strength to reach, had she
had quitted the place, and Inez, by at- not fortunately mtwhapryofer
tentive listening, had assured herself father's herdsmen, who had been sent
that they were not near the spot, first, out in quest of her. She was soon af-
with eyes brimful of tears, having re- er joined by her father, and beinghpdeed
turned her thanks to Providence for her ed on a horse, arrived safely at home,
deliverance from that death which she suffering greatly, however, in both body
at one time imagined inevitable, she re- and mind from the anguish she had x-
moved the rubbish which she had piled perienced, and the terrible scenes that
against the door, and left the place in had been enacted before her young eyes.
which she had been concealed.          Leaving the maiden safely in the abode
What an inexpressible feeling of ter- of her parent, we will now return to
ror smote her breast, when she passed Monteagle. Day after day, he had cal-
the grave of the murdered man!--Her led at the Post Office, but the same
limbs trembled so violently that it is sur- brief response ever met his inquiries,-
prising how she was enabled to support 'None, sir.' Disappointment was wor-
herself, and she mentally offered up an king a sad change in his appearances,
involuntary prayer for the repose of his and his broken fortunes were growing
soul, and that his barbarous assassins hourly more desperate.
might be brought to punishment for     As he was one day leaving the Post
their inhuman violation of the laws. It Office, and strolling down Clay street,
was a second or two before she ventur- he overheard a person addressing ano-
ed to quit the place, but having listened ther, thus:  'Jake, you needn't go to
at the door, which the ruffians had clos- the Post Office, up here, any more for
ed after them, and hearing no other letters. A couple of cartloads have just
sounds than those caused by the fury been found down under Long Wharf;
of the storm, she ventured to open it which it seems, the Postmaster uses as
and look forth. The scene was awful a place of general delivery.'
enough, as a pitchy darkness obscured   Monteagle stayed to hear no more,
all around, save when, at intervals, the but hastened to the place indicated.--
flashes of lightning succeeded the deaf- A great crowd was assembled, every
being thunder-peals. The rain also de- member of which was justly indignant at
scended rapidly, and all around present- this infamous betrayal of trust in the
ed a scene of the most appalling horror. Post Office officials, and while some
But, awful as it was, to Inez it present- talked of carrying their complaints to
ed not half the terrors of the old out- Washington; others suggested the rath-
house, which now contained the mangl- er less mild but somewhat more effect-
ed remains of the poor old man, whom ive action of tying the Postmaster up in
the monsters had buried,             one of his mail bags, and dumping him
Inez, trembling in every limb, left the


MYSTERIES AND      MISERIES
where be had deposited their letters- complete counterpart of her t e husband,
in th Bay.and never were two beings better form
in the Bay.                                  tt    te       a  hi   ny
Monteagle sprang down beneath the ed to meet together. I was their only
 wharf, the tide having fallen, and left daughter, myself and a brother being
the sand bare. Here he found a large the only offspring they ever had. Eve-
number of letters, and newspapers: the ry indulgence that child could wish, or
directions of many being wholly or in parent could think of, was bestowed on
part obliterated.  But among all that me;-my every thought seemed to be
number, he could fndnone addressed to studied by them, and there was not a
him. - While he was turning over the single happiness which they had it in
letters, he saw one addressed to a young their power to grant, which they seemed
lady, whom he recollected as having to think too great for me.'
been pointed out to him by Blodget 'Our home was the happiest in the
when visiting thehouse in Dupont street. neighborhood, and it was the envy and,
She was called the 'English Girl,' and admiration of all who knew it.fAeen,
Monteagle. remembered having been when I think upon it, and how different
particularly struck by the lovely though my situation is now, I cannot help giving
pensive expression of her fair face. He vent to my feelings ; indeed, it is to in-
took the letter and immediately proceed- dulge them that I have sat down to record
ed to the house where she resided. As the events of my life, although, in all
soon as the usual greetings were over, probability, no other eyes but mine may
the young lady opened the letter, but ever behold it. home, sweet home;
had scarcely glanced at its contents be- there cannot be a theme upon which the
fore she fell heavily to the floor. Mont- mind of sensibility pauses with more pe-
eagle summoned assistance, and after culiar delight than this. It is the era-
some time she was sufficiently restored die of our infancy and our agen'
to converse with our hero; who deeply  ' The seaman, amidst storm and teo-
sympathised with her evident distress. pest, in fair weather and foul, thinks of
The poor girl, in answer to Monteagle's his native village; the soldier th fights
inquiries, gave him the following ac- for kings; the merchant that dives for
count of her previous history:      gain, are, alte  whil thewanderer,
My father was a farmer, in comforta- thoughts o1 home; wlee t  fndit
biecirumsancswhich he gained by who has followed pleasure, but found i
ble circumstances, wihh    andb       h   a  that has bartered the humble
his own industry and exemplary conduct. a shade-th  has  mierd thnks.ble
I will not attempt to describe him, for I content for splendid misery,  th at of
should fail to do justice to his merits, el- home with a self-accusing regret, that
oquent, doubtless, as my affection for renders even a return to its enjoyments
him would make me. Let it suffice that full of bitterness and remorse. Sensibly
he was a han of superior education,hav- do I feel the force of these observations,
ing formerly moved in a different state and, therefore, have  prsse of indul
of life,from which he had been driven by simple narrative for the purpose
a long series of misfortunes,.and his nu- going in them.'rt of m
merous virtues even by far exceeded his   I will pass over the early pat of
aedomplishments    y mother was     life, which was p    instunnter-

rupted happiness, and come at once to
that unfortunate circumstance Which
was the cause of my indiscretion, and
occasioned me all that anguish I so se-
verely felt afterwards.
'An accident brought Captain Dari-
an and his friend, the Earl Mansville, to
our house, from which the latter was
unable to be removed for several weeks.
Alas ! it was a fatal day for me; the
earl was young, handsome, insinuating,
and the very first moment I beheld him,
my heart felt a sensation it never before
had experienced, and too soon I was com-
pelled to acknowledge to myself that I
had become deeply enamoured of him.
Fatal attachment! had I not been un-
pardonably thoughtless, I should at once
have seen the folly, the danger, the hope-
lessness of indulging, or encouraging a
passion for one so far above me, and
who would, probably, not feel for me a
mutual sentiment, and have stifled it in
its infancy. But it was not to be: I
was to be taught reason by dear-bought
experience. At length, the earl being
restored to canvalescence, quitted our
house, but I felt convinced it was with
reluctance, and I noticed the looks he
fixed on me, with a sentiment of mingled
delight and astonishment. The glances
he bestowed on me, were those of admi-
ration-of love! How my heart bound-
ed at this idea, I need not tell; but, alas!
it should have been its greatest cause of
anguish, and my pleasure was greatly in-
creased when I learned that Mansville
having expressed his delight at the neigh-
borhood, had taken up his abode in it
for a short time ; but Captain Darian
had male his departure some days previ-
ous to another part of the country. I
frequently saw the earl, and he seemed
anxious to say something to me, but had

not an opportunity, as I was mostly in
the presence of my parents ; but I need-
ed no interpretation of his thoughts; my
own sentiments fully elucidated them,
and the warmth of the glances he be-
stowed upon me. If it required anything
to strengthen the affection with which
Mansville had inspired me, it was the
amiable character he soon acquired in
the neighborhood,,his chief pleasure ap-
pearing to be the performing of acts of
benevolence and philanthropy, and the
blessings of the poor were amply lavish-
ed upon him. Rash, thoughtless, girl
that I was. I should have made my pa-
rents acquainted with the real state of
my feelings, and sought their advice up-
on the subject. but, for the first timo
in my life, I was anxious to conceal my
thoughts from them, and continued to
encourage and strengthen those passions
which reason ought to have convinced
me could never have been requited by
the object who had inspired me with
them.
It was about a month after the EJarl
Mansville had quitted our house, that I
arose rather earlier one morning than
was my usual custom, induced by the fine-
ness of the weather. I descended from
my chamber, and entered the garden,
which was beautifully and tastefully ar-
ranged, and in which, as well as my
father and brother, I took much pleas-
ure. My attention, however, was par-
ticularly devoted to a rose tree, which
I had frequently heard the earl express
his' admiration of it while he was re-
maining at our house. Could I but get
him by any means to receive one how
happy should I have been. This day I
had resolved to make my father and
mother a little present of some of these
roses, which I knew they would receive

i

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                    87

;r
t
I
S
"
ft
t
d=  ?
pe '
t i
5


88

MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

with more delight than the most costly  'My child, answered my affectionate
gift, coming as they did from me.   parent, these locks have withered in the
'How sweetly my roses have opened,' hot sun. I have passed many years in
I soliloquized; 'they seem to know that toiling for others, andhave never shrunk
they are destined to be gifts of affection, from its beams; and now, when it is
-I
and to smile with the delight I shall feel partly for my darling girl I. toil, the
in bestowing them on those I love so balm and comfort of my life, I cannot
dearly. So this for my father, and this feel fatigue, and every drop that rolls
for my mother.'    y                down ma weather-beaten forehead in
I plucked two of the most beautiful, such a cause, makes my old heart te
and had scarcely done so, when my fath- lighter.'
er entered from the house, and greeted aI threw myself once more into his
me wth hs usal afecton.arms, and he embraced me fervently,
me h  fath e' sI  xclaimedIhave  after which  he hastened  away.  As soon
'.Ah, father,' I excamd      ave    e hadgoe I was joined by my
such a nice gift for you and my dear asoher gone, as joie by my
mother.'                            mother, who, hearing myoe i the
'Indeed, my child,' returned my fath- garden, had come to summon me to te
er, smiling fondly on me.            morning repast
'Yes,' replied I, placing one of those  So, my dear,' he remarked, 'old Mrs.
roses which I had plucked in his hand, Weston is likely to be better off than
'there,-is there a painting in any man- ever;instead of being ruined by th
sion in the country half so beautiful? burning of her cottage, the Earl of
What a name a painter would get who Mansvilleais .going to rebuild it at his
could only give a perfect copy of these own expense, and has made her a hand-
roses, and, you see, I give you the origi- some presenting the arl'
nals for nothingg'                    At the mention of the   l    m
'Dear girl, dear girl!' ejaculated my blushed, and a sensation filled my
father, his eyes glittering with fondness. bosom which no other name cold have
' And yet I do not give them to you excited.ote         Iobrvdin
for 'nothing, my-dear father,' I added ; 'Indeed, mysmother,' I obs had stated; 'bless his
' for-you give me iil exchange those sweet reply to wt she hole illaes rings
smiles of affection, wiich are to me of kind heart! Thea   whenvillagerins
more value than anything else in the with his charities; and, whenever I see
world.'                             him,nmyc heart beats so.'
'Darling child,' cried my lather,'  'Ah, child,'P said my mother, It is a
raising his hand above his head, and in- very bad sign whena young girl's heart
voking a blessing upon me; 'the look of beats at the sight ha happeng
affection will always reward innocence.' young man.  Whtet out of his way,
' After having thus spoken he was ought at once to ge ou  fuhse wan'
about to depart, when I ran towards   I felt uncommonly confused, and
him, saying:                        know I must have blushed deeply.
'What! leave us so soon, my dear    'Nay, my dear mother,' I at length
father? Prithee stay till the air grows answered,'dto me a warniueg is super-
cooler.'                            u fluous; your daughter's 'affections live

iY
1

89

in her home. Is it possible she will find Crimson blushes, I am certain,
elsewhere, what home will yedher?' m-    e eks   u   e ncetamantled
elswhee  hathoe wllyield he?    y cheeks; but yet I was unable to
As I afterwards learne, the earl and withdraw my hand from his hold,
one of his attendants had watched the he pressed vehemently to hs i ,wch
departure of my father, and at this mo- then continued:--. y
ment the former descended' from the 'Lovely Clara, pardon this abrupt-
bridge, and approached towards us. I ness; often have I longed for this opt-
started at his presence, and was much portunity, but in vain; never before have
confused, especially as we hadjust before I had it in my power to declare hwvte
been talking about him; but, putting on first glance of that enchanting fae e
one of his most affable smiles, he said:-  'Oh, my lord,' I faltered out, in
'Pray don't rise. Don't let me dis- tremulous accents, 'I must not listen to
concert you. Is Mr. Heywood within?' this-leave me, I beseech you.'
'ie is but this moment gone into the 'Leave you, angelic creature!' replied
fields yonder, my lord,' answered my the earl, emphatically, and still retaining
mothnee                              his hold of my hand; 'leave you! oh,
SIndeed,' said the earl, with apparent there is madness in the bare thought!
disappointment, 'that is unfortunate, I I cannot, I will not quit your presence till
have just now urgent occasion to speak you have uttered some word of consola-
with hin.'                          tion-.blessed me with some ray of hope!'
Urgent occasion,' repeated my moth_. 'I scarcely knew how to answer ;-I
er, aside to me; 'what can it be? My could not behold the object of niy love,
lord, then I'll hasten after him ; pray kneeling at my feet, and soliciting my
have the goodness to wait one moment.' sanction to his vows unmoved; the cold
' Nay,' said Mansville, 'I am ashamed dictates of prudence would have told me
to give you the trouble; but, being of instantly to give him a decisive answer,
importance-'                         and to force myself from his presence,
.I'll make the best speed, and bring but my heart pleaded against its rigid
him to you immediately,' returned my rules. The earl noticed my emotion,
mother, hastening away, and leaving me and doubtless saw his triumph, for he
and the earl alone.                  continued in more fervent and embolden-
Scarcely had my mother disappeared, ed terms.
when the earl, fixing upon me a look in  'But surely the gentle Clara cannot
which admiration and delight were blen- be so cruel as to bid one who is her de-
ded, took my hand, and, in a voice of voted slave, despair? No---no-she will
rapture, exclaimed:--                impart to him a hope-'
' Clara, beauteous Clara! behold be-  'Hope, my lord,' 1 interrupted, rec-
fore you one who loves you to distrac- electing myself, and the remembrance of
tion.'                               my mother's words, and my own assu-
Although my own feelings and ob- race, rushing upon my mind; '.I am a
servations had prepared me for this poor girl, the daughter of an humble
scene, I was so flurried and confused, farmer, and have no right to listen to a
that I could scarcely contain myself. man like you. Even were I no longer
My bosom heaved-my heart palpitated, the mistress of my heart, I trust I am

I

OF SAN FRANCISCO.


90

MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

not yet so lost to principle my lord, as affections. Blissful assurance! Ere an
to avow it where it might not be confes- other morn, my lara, my loved, my
ed with honor'                    adored Clara, will be my bride1l-But
e  eal arose from his knee, relin- time passes, we must away from  this
squished my hand, and walked away a spot instantly.'
few paces in much apparent agitation ; And the earl attempted to place his
then suddenly returning, he said in tones arm around my waist, but surprised at
of mingled regret and reproach:-     his words and demeanour, I recoiled from
'Do you deem me capable of decep- him, and looking upon him with aston-
tion?  Clara, it is to make you my wife, ishment, I demanded:--.
give you rank and title, that I came.  ''My lord, what mean you?-Leave
One word of your's can give splendor to this placeI-Why, wherefore?'
the home you love, and make the heart  ''Nay, my dearest Clara,' returned
that lives but in your kindness, happy!' Mansville, 'be not surprised, or alarmed;
As he spoke thus, his mnnuer became my proposa s are honorable; reasons of
more energetic, and I felt"my heart grad- rank require that we retire to my villa;
ally yielding!-I trembled, and longed, our marriage must be secret and immedi-
yet dreaded the return of my parents; ale or it may be prevented. Once mine,
while the earl seeing the hesitation of I will lead you back in triumph.'
m  manner, urged his suit with redoub-  'What,' I exclaimed, 'leave my
led determination  parents in doubt, in misery?'
Clara' he exclaimed, 'there is not  'Banish these childish scruples,' said
moment to be lost -Can you doubt the earl, 'your parents will applaud you
the sincerity of my protestations? Think when they know the truth. Come to a
yutht .I could be the base villain to lover who adores you! Come to the al-
deceive one in whom my very soul, my tar which will pour forth blessings on
existence i  n wrapped up. Say but the those who love so dearly! Come, Clara,
blissful word; tell me that you will be- come!,'
comemy bride, the empress of my heart As the earl .thus impatiently urged
andfortune ;-give me this sweet assu- hls suit, he attempted to lead me to-
rance and-'                          wards the bridge;-I felt my resolution
'c, am  lord,' I interrupted, in a getting weaker-I trembled-and could
state of confusion, and agitation, I will offer but a faint resistance.
notaattempt to describe, 'spare me, I  'Urge me no more, my lord,' I cried,
lore youL-I-I ----' and unable to endeavouring to disengage myself from
finish the sentence, I turned away my him;-'let me go-I dare not listen to
head, and burst into tears. The earl you-farewell!'
again seized my hand rapturously, and  'Still inflexible,' ejaculated the earl,
encouragedby the emotion I evinced, his turning away from me, with a look of
countenance became lighted up with an the most inexpressible anguish anddes-
expression of delight, as he exclaimed- pair, 'then is my doom sealed. I can-
'Oh, blessed moment! those tears not, will not live without you, and thus
convince me that I am not hated by her I-'
who hath taken possession of my whole,  While thus speaking, he snatched a

pistol from his bosom, and presented it
towards his head! With a wild shriek
of terror, I rushed into his arms, and ar-
rested his fatal purpose. Some spell,
some horrid spell came over me. I re-
member the last cloud of smoke curling
over our ancient trees.-I-I've no fur-
ther recollection. When my senses were
restored, and reason was permitted again
to resume its sway,-I found myself an
mate of the earl's villa, and far away
from that home I had rendered wretch-
ed. Oh, God, how dreadful, how agon-
izing were the thonghts that first crossed
my brain I I upbraided myself for a
wretch unfit to live-as one who had
disgraced herself and destroyed the peace
of the most affectionate of parents for
ever, and which ever way I turned, a
curse seemed to pursue me.
Mansville tried all his eloquence could
effect to console me; renewed his most
tender asseverations, and repeated his
promise to make me his bride. Strange
infatuations !-I believed him;-I be-1
came tranquil-and if the thoughts of
my parents and the name I had aban-
doned ever returned to my memory, they,
were quickly banished by the soothings, j
and fond protestations of the earl. Day
after day passed away, and still he
promised, but failed- to keep his word.
My humble dress was now exchanged
for fasionable finery and Mansville visited
me every day, repeating each time with
grea-ter energy the vows of -love with s
which he had at first seduced from  myu
home. Every luxury-every enjoyment
that could be wished was at my com-'d
mand; but could they yield me real hap- t
piness? Oh, no. The splendour I was r
now placed in, was purchased with ago- I
ny; and my own feelings constantly re- v
proached me for that offence of which I a

91

had been guilty. Some fated spell must
have been upon me, or I must have soon
been convinced that St. Clair was not
sincere in his promises, or he would net
day after day evade the fulfilment of
them. But it was my fate dearly to
purchase experience of my own weak-
ness and of the earl's treachery. Sever-
al weeks elapsed in this manner, and
still did the earl neglect to fulfil the
promises he had made me, while, at the
same time, the ardor of his passion
seemed to increase, and the excuses lhe
made for delaying our nuptials, were so
plausible, that I was deceived by them.
Alas! the woman whose heart has been
sincerely attached to any particular ob-
ject, is made an easy dupe!  Let me
pass hastily over the time, until the an-
niversary of the day of my birth, at once
the height of my misery, and the means
of restoring me to reason and to peace.
On that occasion, Mansville had made the
most extensive preperatioiis, for cele-
brating it in the most spirited manner.
Numerous guests were invited to the vil-
la, and the peasants in the neighborhood
were also permitted to share in the re-
joicings. Among other things, for my
especial entertainment, the earl had en-
gaged a troop of itinerant players, who
were in the neighborhood, to perform a
play in the grounds of the villa, which
deserves particular mention, as it was
the means of restoring me to reason, and
saving me from that gulf of destruction,
upon the brink of which I stood.
Seldom had I felt so melancholy as I
did on that occasion; home and all its
ranquil pleasures, came vividly to my
ecollection, and my heart was heavy.
There was a song which was a great fa-
vourite in the village where I was born,
nd which described the pleasures of

OF SAN FRANCISCO.


92                   MYSTERIES AND     MISERIES
home in simple yet forcible language, ease is made more wretched by the
and as it now came fresh upon my recol- splendor which laughs in awful mockery,
lection, I could not help repeating the around its dreariness.'
words. When I had concluded, I per-   'The presence of Celia embarrassed
ceived that Celia, my waiting-maid, had- me; I wished to indulge in melancholly
entered the room, and had. apparently thought alone, but she seemed determin-
been listening with much attention and ed not to take my hints for her to leave
admiration to me.                   me, and at last I only got rid of her by
Bless me, Miss,' said the loquacious requesting that she would fetch me a

girl, 'what a pretty song that was, and
how prettily you sang it. Where might
you have learnt it, Miss, if I might make
so bold?'
'Where I learnt other lessons I ought
never have forgotten,' replied I, with a
deep sigh; 'it is the song of my native
village-the hymn of the lowly heart
which dwells upon every lip there, and.

book that I had been reading the day
previously.  When she had left the
room, with much agitation, I unlocked
my cabinet, and took out the plain vil-
lage dress, I had worn when I quitted
my home. The sight of this tortured
my brain, and while deep sobs of an-
guish almost choked my voice, I thus
soliquized:-

like a spell-word, brings back to its name  'And shall I remain here, dazzled
affection which e'er has been betrayed and betrayed by the splendor with which
to wander from it. It is the first music I am surrounded?  Shall I still rack my
heard by infancy in its cradle; and the parents hearts, and-I-will escape!I
villagers blending it with their earliest Escape! no, no-I can brave the shocks
and tenderest recollections, never cease of fate, but not a father's eye: to ex-
to feel its magic power, till they cease pose myself to his wrath-no, no! my
to live.'                            heart's not strong enough for that.'
'How natural that is,' returned Celia;  ' I was interrupted by the return of
'just like my nurse used to nurse me to Celia with the book, who, on seeing the
sleep with a song, which I have never village dress in the chaise, expressed the
heard since without nodding.'        utmost astonishment.
'Has the earl been inquiring -for me,  'Lor' bless me, Miss!' ejaculated the
Celia?' I asked.          -          girl, 'what's this dress doing here ?-
'He has been here this morning, and Whoever could have put such trumpery
has only just gone,' replied the maid; in the way?'
'but only see what lovely things he , As she spoke, she snatched it up,
has left you, Miss!'                 and was going to throw it aside when I
'And Celia displayed a costly dress, sprang forward emphatically, and hasti-
and several articles of jewellery, of ly took it from her.
which I expressed my admiration. But  'Give it back!' I cried, 'that humble
suddenly, gloomy thoughts again came dress was mine;-I cast it off-the
over me, and while tears trembled in my splendor - that has replaced it, is the
eyes, I ejaculated:-                 source of the most bitter misery!-Oh,
' But can these baubles make me hap- my for saken parents;-Cone hither,
py? AhI never!  The heart that's ill at Celia;-I have no one here of my own

OF SAN FRANCISCO.               93

sex to talk to-no one to listen to my
sorrows. I     '
'Pray speak freely to me, Miss,' ob-
served Celia; 'though humble, you'll
not find me insincere.'
' Celia,' I remarked, 'if you knew
what a home, what parents I had left,
you'd pity me.'
'I do pity you, Miss,' replied Celia,
'indeed I do.  Better days will come;,
you'll beas happy as when you left
them.'
I sighed, and shook my head with a
look of despair, and then detailed to
Celia the particulars of my flight from
home, and the promises which the earl
had made, but had hitherto failed to
keep his word.
' Be of good cheer, Miss, I pray,'
said Celia, 'he will keep it, depend up-
on it.'
Celia spoke this with such a tone of
confidence, that it forcibly struck me,
and eagerly I exclaimed:-
'Will he, Celia?-Now, don't trifle
with me-tell me the worst at once!-
Better is present death, than hope de-
ferred; still lingering on, still doomed
to be deceived.'
'My dearest young Mistress,' return-
ed Celia, 'there is plenty of time before
you think of dying; and, as a proof that
the earl don't mean to deceive you, look
here.'
And with these words, Celia present-
ed me with a miniature of the earl, ele-
gantly set round with diamonds, at the
same time, adding:-
' On a chamber-maid's penetration,
this nothing more or less than an earn-
est of the original.'
I took the miniature with transport,

I

with admiration. Nothing could be
more true than the delineation,
'Ah!' I observed, 'precious to the
fond one, is the semblance of the object
held most dear. 'Tis the enchanter's
wand, which gathers around it in a ma-
gic circle, sweet recollections and feel-
ings which make memory a paradise!-
No, no!-treachery could never dwell
in such a face !-I'll trust him still. He
cannot mean me false.'
'Shall I put this away, Miss?' asked
Celia, pointing to the village dress; 'I
am sure the earl would be hurt to see
it here.'
'Yes, take it away,' Celia, I replied,
'I would not, for the world, do any-
thing to make him uneasy.'
Celia immediately obeyed, and she had
not been gone many minutes, when St.
Clair entered the room, and advanced
joyfully to meet me.
' Ah, sir,' I ejaculated, 'why over-
whelm me with gifts like these?-My
humble habits shrink from such magni-
ficence! This (pointing to the minia-
ture,) is the only one I prize, the herald
of a gift to follow, which shall restore
me to my friends, my self-esteem;-my
poor heart-broken parents.'
The earl turned away his head, doubt-
less to conceal the embarrasment which
my words occasioned him, and then, in
a tone which showed that he wished to
change the subject, said:-
'This is your birth-day, Clara.'
That word tore my wounds open!
Oh! what a joyous day was it when I
was at home! The farm seemed to be
one smile of joy;-the sacred halo of
a parent's blessing descended on me with
the morning sun; and even my birds,

and my eyes became rivetted upon it I my flowers, my young companions,--

I


94              MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

all seemed to have a livelier look, and
lift their heads rejoicing. These thoughts
were too painful for my feelings; and I
burst into tears.
'Nay, Clara,' observed the   earl,
'cheer thee, love!-banish that woe;
discard that dread; rely upon my pro-
mise.'
'Heaven's smile repay that word,' I
exclaimed fervently; 'the weight which
pressed me to the earth is removed, and
all around me breathes extacy.'
'It delights me to hear thee say so,
my dearest Clara,' replied the earl, 'go,
sweetest, and put on your richest dress
to celebrate this joyous day.'
'That day,' I added, with enthusiasm,
'that day which gives me back to hon-
or. It shall be done, my lord.'
The earl kissed me affectionately, and
left the room; and once more a cheering
hope brought consolation to my heart,
and assured me of future happiness and
joy.  Alas! how soon was I to be
awakened to the greatest agony! To
more misery than I had ever before ex-
perienced. ,1
The festivites of the day passed off
most brilliantly until the play commenc-
ed. The gardens in which it took place
were brilliantly illuminated, and the
temporary theatre was formed among
the trees in the back. Just as the per-
formances were about to commence, a
servant entered and delivered to the
earl a letter, upon perusing the contents
of which, he excused himself to me and
the numerous guests, it being necessary
that he should be absent for a short
time; but he begged that his absence
might not interrupt their pleasure, as
the village actors- would amuse them
with their humble efforts; and ere they
had ended, he would return,

When the earl aad gone, I beckoned
Celia over to me, and the play immedi-
ately commenced-; but what were my
feelings of intense agony as it proceed-
ed, when I perceived that the plot, and
every incident of the piece, so corres-
ponded with my own circumstances, that
it seemed as if they had actually chosen
me to sketch the heroine from. A. no-
bleman wooed a peasant girl; he vowed
the most unbounded affection for her;-
promised her marriage, if she would
but elope with him;-she was persua-
ded;-she sunk senselesss in his arms,
and was conveyed away.
During the time the piece was being
played, my anguish was insupportable,
and I was so worked upon by the power
of each scene, that I could scarcely
persuade myself but that it was reality.
'Fatal resemblance,' I ejaculated, at
the passage where the seducer bears his
victim away; 'has there before been
such another deluded being?'
'Be calm, dear mistress, be calm,
said Celia, 'it is only a play.'
But my thoughts were too intently
fixed upon the scene which followed, to
pay any particular attention to her words
The parents of the betrayed one, as re-
presented in the piece, upon hearing the
screams of their daughter, rushed on to
the stage, the father demanding of his
wife the meaning of the alarm, and the
cause of the cries he had heard. The
mother looking round, and finding that
her daughter was not there, exclaim-
ed:   -
'My child! my child!-A  mere pre-
tence-our darling -lost - escaped!
Ah! there! there! behold the seducer
bearing her away!'
'Ah! . cried the father, frantically,
' what fled? given up to shame?-Oh,

art beyond belief! IWave all your fond
professions come to this? Oh, well-laid
plan !-Lost! lost!-Oh, viper !-hypo-
crite !--I tear you from my bosom!-
I sweep you from the home you have
disgraced! A father's curse -'
With a wild shriek, as the actor gave
utterance to these words, I rushed upon
the stage, and falling at his feet, I vo-
cifera-ted, in tones that made the place
re-echo again:-
'Hold! hold!--curse her not! She
is not lost! She is innocent!'
At this moment the earl entered, and
the whole of the spectators seemed
petrified to the spot with astonishment.
' Ahi' cried Mansville, 'what do I
see?-What is the meaning of this?'
Celia raised me from the posture I
had assumed, and by the commands of
the earl, whose confusion and chagrin
was evident, she led me to my own
chamber, while the guests quickly dis-
persed, and the entertainments abruptly
ceased.
After I had been taken to my own
apartment for a few minutes, by the
kind attention of Celia, I recovered my-
self, and addressing myself to her,
said:--_
'Thanks! thanks! a thousand thanks!-
I grieve to have troubled you thus-'tis
over now; 'tis nothing.'
' The earl, Miss! the earl!' exclaim-
ed Celia, and the next moment Mans-
ville stood before me. There was an
expression of sternness upon his brow
which I had never seen before, and he
seemed greatly agitated. I was alarm-
ed, and advancing towards him, said:-
'Oh, my lord, how shall I apologize
for----"
'No more of that,'he interrupted;
''tis past.'

'My lord,' ejaculated I, surprised.
'Leave us, Celia;' commanded the earl,
and when the former had retired from
the room, he turned to me, and the in-
dignation of his looks seemed to in-
crease.
' Oh, Mansville,' I observed, 'how
have I deserved this indifference? Is it
my fault that my feelings overcame me?
Is it my fault that the scene revived my
sense of duty? Oh, my lord, it is those
fatal feelings that have made me what
I am.'
' I am weary of this parade of sensibi-
lity,' replied the earl, impatiently; 'you
have called up against me the laugh of
my tenantry and domestics-let that
content you.'
'What does the change portend?
This freezing look-this language of re-
proach?' I inquired.
'For your own sake and mine press
me no further, Clara,' replied the earl;
'I would not have had the scene which
has just past occur for millions. If you
have placed yourself in unpleasant cir-
cumstances, common policy should at
least teach you to shun the sneers of
the world; but it is over and nothing
can now be said which will not increase,
instead of diminishing our mutual n-
easiness.'
A burning pang shot through my
brain as Mansville gave utterance to
these words, and emphatically and hys-
terically I exclaimed--
'Am I deceived?'
'I cannot tell what childish hopes
you may have indulged,' returned the
earl, with the most freezing coldness,
'and I am only sorry that you should
have been weak enough to deceive your-
self.'
' Oh, no, my agitation has shaken my

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                  95


96               ,   MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
senses,' cried I deliriously,-and clasping my pride is now'my disgust; 'tis past!
my temples; 'he could not-no, no, I know myself deceived, but, thank
Mansville! in the name of all that you Heaven, I am not lost! To you, my lord,
have professed, and I have believed, in the bitter hour is not yet arrived; but,
the name of those vows that are regis- 'tis an hour that never fails to guilt.
tered on high, however man may slight At some unexpected moment, the bland-
them; and in that holiest name of all, ishment of pleasure will lose, their force
the name of Him, whose bolt hangs o'er -the power of enjoyment will be palsi-
the hypocrite, dispel these doubts and ed in your soul; it will awake only to
this suspense; restore me at once to my remorse. In that hour of retribution
parents, or at once name the hour for think of these' words of warning,--
that ceremony to pass, when, before the think of the hearts you've broken--
world, you acknowledge me as your think, my lord, and tremble.'
wife!'                                 Without waiting to give utterance to
'Clara,' replied the - earl, ' since you another syllable, I rushed from the room,
will force me to be explicit, is it not but the voice of the earl, tempted me to
strange that a mind so intelligent should stop at the door and listen. He was
fancy for a moment that it was possible apparently pacing the apartment in the
for one in my rank to marry a girl iii most violent state of agitation, and thus
your's?'                             soliloquizing:-
'The oath!-the oath!' I cried, al-  'The fatal truth curdles my blood like
most choking with emotion.           poison! I feel the hell in my bosom.
'My heart is ever your's,' returned Oh, what a heart I've lost? Why, splen-
he, 'but, of my hand, I have no pow- did slavery of rank, must virtue be thy
er to .dispose.  Nay, you pass not victim; why must affection be sacrificed
hence.'                             to thee?  The peasant mates him where
'Are there, no pangs, that, like the his heart directs, and to his lowly bride
dagger, kill the heart they pierce,' ejac- brings happiness; his lord must fret,
ulated I; 'I cast me at your feet in chained to some high-born fool; or eith-
agony! 'Tis Clara kneels and supplica- er pine in vain for humble loveliness, of
tes!. not for herself, but for the racked make its innocence a martyr to his choice.
souls, and thee gray hairs of age! For I was not born to be a betrayer. Wed!
your honor and eternal peace, restore I cannot cease to love!'
me to my parents.'                    The words recalled my scattered reason,
The earl seemed suffering the most and I was almost tempted to return to
acute mental agony, and for a moment the apartment; but a feeling of pride re-
averted his head.-                  strained me, and bursting with anguish,
'Clara,' he said, in faltering accents, I hurried away to my chamber, where I
'believe my heart unchanged-my un- was soon afterwards joined by Celia,
ceasing love--                      who was sent by the earl to watch me.
'Monster!' I interrupted in delirious I was at first insensible to her presence,
tones; 'darest thou still- profane that and sat like a statue, with my eyes fixed
sacred word? No, my lord, the mask is upon the earth, and buried in deep and
torn away,-the attachment which was agonizing meditation. The poor girl

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                     97

spoke to me, but, overcome with my and having apparently satisfied herself
emotions, I burst into tears, and threw that I still clept, she returned to the
myself on the couch, and Celia, proba- drawing.
bly thinking that I should fall into a slum-  'Oh, dear,' she exclaimed with excess-
ber, left. My mind being so dreadfully ive weariness, 'oh, dear, my eyelids are
fatigued by the sufferings I had so re- so very heavy, they stick together when-
cently undergone, I did gradually fall ever I wink, and I can scarcely force
to sleep, from which I was aroused by them open again.. My poor drawing
hearing some person moving in the ad- will never get finished at this rate.
joining,apartment. The door was part- However, I must try once more what it
ly open, and I perceived it was Celia. will do to keep me from sleeping at my
Anxious to ascertain for what purpose post.'
Celia was there, I still pretended to   She again endeavored to keep heiselt
slumber, and shortly afterwards, she awake, but her efforts were all useless,
stole softly to the door which opened she nodded, and nodded, until at length

upon my chamber, and peeped in.
'Yes, she sleeps,' she said. 'Poor,
lady, my heart bleeds for her. Why,
this strange, unlooked-for adventure has
created a fine confusion among all of us;
for see-if one wouldn't think, by the
state this room is in, that it had turned
the heads of the whole family. Scarce-
ly a piece of furniture in its place, and

I

my mistress's toilet, too. Here's confu-
sion. But hold, Celia, that's your af-
fair, so no complaining. I declare I'm
almost worn out with this bustle. Heig-
ho.! I'm ordered by the earl to watch
my mistress here; but I'm sure I don't
know what I shall do to keep awake.
suppose I finish the new drawing the
Lady Clara honored my humble talents
by so much admiring-that's just the
thing.'
Celia placed the drawing-stand before
her, and sitting down, applied herself
to her task; but it was evident, by her
frequent nodding, that her words would
soon be verified, and I was most anx-
for it to happen so, as I had formed a
resolution to make my escape from the
villa that night by some means or other.
She once more approached the couch,

she fell back in her seat, fast asleep.
I now hastily arose, and attired my-
self in the village dress I had gazed at
with such feeings of pain and regret in
the morning. I approached Celia on
tip-toe, and being certain she was really
asleep, I soliloquized-
' Yes, she sleeps! Now is the only
moment! I thought I could not brave
a father's eyes; but there is courage in
despair, which makes the weak frame
wonder at itself. I hava written this
letter to the earl, and here are all his
gifts-his diamonds,his detested wealth.
Now, methinks, my heart feels lighter.
Yes, like the prodigal, I will turn my
steps where a child may always look
with confidence. I have been impru-
dent, but am not guilty. Ieaven re-
ceives the offering of the sincerely peni-
tent, and can a parent's blessing be de-
nied when Heaven forgives?'
The apartment upon which my cham-
ber opened, and in which Celia was, was
a magnificent one. On one side was a
large French window, through which the
distant country could be seen far beyond.
Outside was a balcony overhanging the
road. I undrew the curtains softly, and


98

MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

opened the window. It was a fine moon-
light night, and the distant landscape
could be seen as distinctly as at broad
day. I took a scarf from the shoulders
of Celia, which she wore, fastened one
end of it to the balcony railing, then re-
turned, made an appeal to Heaven for
protection, and blew out the candles.
With more firmness than might have
been expected, i then began my perilous
descent, and gradually letting myself
down by the scarf, alighted in safety
below. Fear of being re-taken lent
speed to my feet, and I flew with the
greatest rapidity across the country to
which, however,I was complete stranger.
I scarcely abated my speed in the least
for the distance of five miles or more,
when I was obliged to pause, in order to
rest myself. I looked fearfully around
me to see whether or not I was pursued,
and then reflected upon what course I
should pursue. I feared to travel at'
that hour, and, indeed, it would have
been most dangerous, to a young girl
especially ; I therefore resolved to pro-
ceed for some distance further, and then
to seek shelter at some cottage till the
morning. I then resumed my lonely
journey in a state of fear and agitation,
it is unnecessary for me to describe.
After walking for above an hour longer,
I arrived at a small and obscure hamlet,
and by the light which I perceived in
several of the cottage windows, I was
satisfied that some of the inmates had
not retired to rest.
Here, again I paused, for uncertain
of the reception I might meet with, I
almost feared to knock. At length, I
approached the first one, and having
first listened at the door, and hearing
only the voice of an old woman, appar-
ently in prayer, I became more confident,

and having waited till she had ceased,
I knocked, and shortly afterwards, the
voice of the old woman demanded who
was there, and what they.wanted. I in-
formed her, and begged that she would
admit me. It was some time before she
complied, and seemed to be consulting
within herself the propriety or safety of
doing so, but having put several more
questions to me, as to whether I was
alone, &amp;c., she at last ventured to open
the door, and eyed me narrowly from
head to foot. She was a very clean,
motherly-looking woman, whose appear-
ance called the tears to my eyes, she
was so much like the parent to whom I
was returning.
'Good gracious, child,' he said, 'what
causes you to be out at this time of
the night and from whence do you come?'
' I am a stranger in this part of the
world, my good dame,' I replied; 'I
have recently made my escape from vil-
liany, and crave a shelter in your cottage
till the morning. I have sufficient to
reward you for your trouble.'
',As for reward,' returned the old wo-
man, 'I require none; and if your story
is true, you are heartily welcome to the
humble bed I have to offer you.'
I thanked the poor woman most sin-
cerely for her kindness, and entered the
clean little parlor, where the remains of
her humble repast she had been partak-
ing of, was still upon the table, and of
which she requested me to eat, but I de-
clined. Judging from her manners and
appearance that she was one in whom I
could confide, I gave her a brief account
of my situation, and upon what purpose
I was bent. She listened to me with
evident commiseration, and'applauding
the resolution I had formed, after some
conversation, she conducted me to the

I

1

OF SAN FRANCISCO. '

room in which she was able to accoma-
date me, and after bidding me goodnight
left me to myself. Fatigued with the
events of the day, it was not long ere I
fell asleep, and I did not awake until the
old woman aroused me late in the morn-
ing.
Haviug been prevailed upon by her to
partake of her humble meal, and offered
her some remuneration for her kindness
which she persisted in declining, I took
leave of her, and made my way to the
coach office, to which she had directed
me. I met with no interruption on the
road, and succeeded in obtaining a place
in one of the coaches just starting for
my native village. I alighted from the
coach a short distance from my place of
destination, having made up my mind
to walk the rest of the way.
I cannot adequately portray the na-
ture of my feelings as I approached the
home where I had never known anything
but happiness until my meeting with
Mansville; alternate hopes and fears
racked my bosom. It was a beautiful
morning; the sun shone forth in full me-
ridion splendor, and all nature seemed
to wear a smile of gladness.  When I
came within sight of the village, my
heart felt ready to burst, and suddenly
the sound of pipes and tabors vibrated
on my ears. Presently afterwards,o
bridal procession approached toward:
the spot where I was, and stopped be
fore the doors of one of my female com
panions, Ellen Greenley, and Georg(
Ashburne, who had long been her ac
knowledged lover.
George Ashburne having thanked hi
friends for their kindness, the father o
Ellen joined them.
'Good morning to you, my dear child
said Mr. Greenley, kissing his daughte

affectionately, and smiling upon his son-
in-law elect, kindly ; 'may this prove a
blessed day to you both. Go, lads and
lasses, and gather the flowers to cele-
brate the ceremony.'
The villagers departed, and Mr. Green-
ley continued-
I'll try if I can't prevail upon Mr.
Heywood, the unfortunate father of Cla-
ra, to come to your wedding; poor fel-
low! he may be compared to the ruined
wing of the crazy old mansion-house he
was converted into a farm, that looks
down in gloomy silence upon the bright
and smiling landscape which everywhere
surrounds it. Ali! that sad girl! the
flowers they go to gather are less frail
than she has proved. My children be
virtuous if you would be happy.'
Thus saying, the old man re-entered
the cottage, but his words had been so
many daggers to my heart.
'Clara's father,' observed Ellen, when
her father had left them, 'ah! if our
poor Clara herself were only here now,
how her heart would rejoice in our hap-
piness.'
' Don't name her, Ellen,' said George,
'don't name her ; a virtuous girl's lips
ought not to-be sullied by the mention
of her name.'
' Ah! George,' replied Ellen, 'pity
a becomes the virtuous, and the more she
s has fallen, the more she deserves to be
- pitied.'
-   'Psha!' cried George, 'can't you talk
e about something else?'
'A  sad day jt was when shc went
away,' continued Ellen, 'everybody was
s downcast, as if some great affliction had
f befallen the village.'
'More fools they,' was George's ab-
,' rupt retort; ' if you or I had gone, in-
r deed, it might have afflicted them; now,


100

MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

Ellen, you shall not talk any more about
her. Come, come, let us be going.'
Suddenly accumulating all my forti-
tude, I emerged from the place where I
had concealed myself, and called upon
Ellen by name. Both her and her lover
started, and the former exclaimed in a
tone of astonishment and alarm:-
'Bless us! what's that?'
'As I live,' said her lover, 'it is Cla-
ra Heywood, or her ghost!'
'Do not be alarmed, Ellen,' I said,
' but one word with you.'
'No, it's she herself, as I'm alive,'
ejaculated Ellen: 'but oh, how changed
she is.'
'One word, dear Ellen,' I repeated.
'I am not satisfied upon this subject,'
said the timid George, 'so, as you seem
resolved to stay here, I shall be off.'
'Ellen,' I repeated, as soon as George
had departed 'Have you forgotten me?'
'No, Clara, no,' answered the affec-
tionate girl, 'nor never shall forget you.
I was even talking about you, as you
called. Ah! Clara, you're sadly alter-
ed; and so is everything since you went
away. Such a day as it was, when you
left us !-There wasn't a dry eye, nor a
cheerful word spoke in the village.
Your poor father-'
'YWell--well!' I hurriedly interrupted.
I igee it grieves you,' said Ellen; 'I
didn't-mean to make you sad-you look
as if you had suffered enough. This is
my wedding-day, Clara.'
'Ellen sighed, and for a moment
averted her head.
'Yes, Ellen,' I resumed, 'I wish to
see my mother, and to see her privately.
She would not, perhaps, admit me to
her presence, if she was not forewarned.
You can oblige me greatly, if you will
induce her to come to me, by saying that

a stranger desires to speak with her, im-
mediately.'
'That I will, with all my heart,' said
Ellen. ' and may it turn to good. Oh,
may all the realization of her hopes at-
tend the returning wanderer. But where
shall I find you?'
I'll follow you,' I answered, '' go
round to the front door ; I'll take the
opposite side, and meet you at the gate.
And Heaven will help the heart, deter-
mined to retrace the paths of rectitude
and honor,' I cried, as with a heart
beating with hope and dread, I made
my way towards the house of my belov-
ed parents.
Oh, never shall I forget the feelings
with which I entered at the gate.
'Here is my home I-my blessed, bles-
sed home!' I reflected; 'a frowning form
appears to guard the threshhold, shriek-
ing in my ear-' Hence! thou shalt not
enter!' But can I linger here?-Iseem
to tread the earth like a criminal. I
must, and I will approach! Now, now
now!' °.-
Having at last made a violent effort
to conquer my emotions, I rushed down
the steps into the yard, and then exclaim-
ed triumphantly-
'Once more I am surrounded by all
that is dear to me!-Father! mother!
-your unhappy child, sorrowing, im
ploring, returns to you!-And hark! I
hear, the song of my childhood floating
on the air. How accutely doth its ac-
cents strike upon my heart in such a
scene as this, around whose every tree
and flower some recollection of infancy's
entwined.'
My heart rose in my mouth, as I ven-
tured, seeing the coast clear, to approach
the house, and even-to peep into the
parlor-window. I trembled; and an in-

m

OF SAN P1

i

I

describable pang shot through my frame,
as I noticed everything that well-known
room contained, and which had not un-
dergone any alteration since I last be,-
held it,. But how shall I describe my
feelings, when immediately afterwards,
the door of the inner apartment was
thrown open, and the next moment my
mother appeared with the breakfast
things. With what eager fondness did
I gaze upon her revered countenance,
and yearn again to be enfolded in her
embrace ; and most severely did I re-
proach myself when I noticed the heavy
marks of care that were upon her brow.
The casement was partially open, so
that I could hear all that passed, and
my mother, having placed the breakfast
things on the table, sighed heavily and
observed-
'There, there 1-There's the breakfast
ready for my poor husband, and now I
wish he would return. He has been out
since daylight with his gun ; the only
thing that seems to attract his attention.
At home, all day he does nothing but
sigh, or,-if he thinks he is not observ-
ed,-weep. Oh, Clara! unthinking girl
you have too much to atone for. How
long he stays.'
My heart was ready to burst as these
words reached my ears, and-it was with
the greatest difficulty I could avoid be-
traying myself. My mother now came
to the door an  looked anxiously out,
but a little thatched summer-house close
at hand .concealed me from observation.
Again she entered the house, and I over-
heard her, in tones of the deepest anxie-
ty, exclaim'--
'No, I cannot catch even a glimpse of
him, yet my mind is'never easy in his ab-
sence; his despondency sometimes makes
me fear that-ah! surely yonder I see

IA1CISCO.                       101
him moving mournfully among the trees.
Yes, 'tis he-he is just at the bridge;-
he comes!'
'Never shall I forget the sensation
with which I strained my eyes in the di-
rection which the observation of my mo-
ther instructed re in, and I thought I
should have sunk to the earth with min-
gled feelings of the most intense anguish
and awe, when my eyes once more be-
held my father. But oh, how altered
was he ! Care had deeply imprinted
its furrows on his cheeks, and his form
was bent and attenuated. He walked
with a feeble step, and at least twenty
winters seemed to have passed over his
head since I had last beheld lim.
' My God!' I mentally ejaculated,
'and are these the terrible consequences
of my imprudence? Oh, my poor moth-
er, truly did you say that I had much to
atone for!-How can I ever make suffi-
cient reparation for the misery I have
occasioned.'
My father at length reached the house,
and my mother ran affectionately to
meet him.
' You were wrong to have wandered
so far,' she said, ' you seem quite ex-
hausted.'
'No,' replied my father, ''tis only ex
ercise that can divert the mind from
gloom; When the mind's disturbed, the
body does not feel fatigued. I'm late
I hope you haven't waited breakfast for
me.'
'I would not certainly breakfast with-
out you/ returned my moher; 'but you
are too much heated to-sit in this par-
lor; the breeze is too keen for you; we
will go into the inner apartment. Go,
and I will take the breakfast things for
you.'


102                  MYSTERIES Al
'Well, well, as you please,' said my
father, ' where is Edwin?'
' He has gone to make one of the
wedding party of Ellen and George,' an-
swered my mother.
A wedding!' said my father, with a
sigh, ' ah.'      .
My mother had by this time hastily
gathered up the breakfast things, and
left- the parlor.
'Poor, bereaved mother,' sighed my
father, looking after her with the most
poignant sorrow, 'she struggles with
her grief, and endeavors to impart a joy
which neither can. feel; which we nei-
ther can know again.-No! no! peace
of mind fled with my guilty daughter-
never to return! Why did I repair the
ravages time had made in this old man-
sion?  Why strive to give an air of com-
fort to my habitation?-Because I deem-
red it would be the abode of bliss. She-
my child, hath made it the abode of deo
spain-But, no matter, a few years of
neglect, desolation will spread around,
and hearth, roof, and tree will be ruined,
like my happiness, and broken as my
heart !--My'daughter !--my Clara! Oh!
misery l misery  . She is gone ! she is
lost forever!'
As he thus spoke he rushed from the
room, and my agony was so great that
I could not help groaning aloud.  .
'Oh! God!' I exclaimed; ' what will
become of me?--I shall go- mad!-
Would that I had not ventured hither;
I shall never be enabled to withstand
4-he scene!-INever can I find resolution
enough to meet his reproaches. Alas!
'he is too - strongly- prejudiced against
me, ever to be "persuaded 'that I am
guiltless!---But where is'Elleni'
I had scarcely given utterance to the

ND MISERIES

words, when the latter approached, and
before I had time to speak to her, enter-
ed the house observing me, however, and
motioning me to remain where I was,
and to wait patiently. I cannot do
justice to the anxiety of my feelings
during the time I was waiting there. A
thousand doubts, hopes and fears, flash
ed across my brain, and every moment
seemed to be an hour. At length, I
heard Ellen in joyful accents exclaim,
as she came from the house,
'Joy, Clara, joy!'
I sprang forward with rapture to
meet her.
'I have succeeded, my dear Clara,
said the generQus-hearted girl, exulting-
ly; ' she'll come to you. Wait in the
summer-house, and she'll be with you
presently.'
' Thanks! thanks!' cried I, 'a thous-
and thanks, my dearest Ellen.'
' She's coming,' observed Ellen, eag-
erly; 'go, quick. I pray for your suc-
cess from the bottom of my soul.'
Scarcely had I time to enter the sum-
mer-house, when my mother approached.
Now was the moment of my trial at
hand; a deadly sickness came over me,
and it was with difficulty I could save
myself from fainting. The next mo-
ment my mother entered the summer-
house, and she no sooner beheld me,
than she uttered a loud scream of as-
tonishment, and becagie, as it were,
paralyzed to the spot. '
' Mother! mother!' I cried, in frantic
tones, 'if I may still call you by that
dear name;--oh, pardon your imprudent,
but not guilty daughter!'
I could say no more, but sank at her
feet. ' A pause of several moments en-
sued! my mother being too much over-

OF SAN Fl

powered by her emotions to speak; but'
at length, in a voice choked with agony,
she exclaimed:--
'Wretched girl! dare you again to
approach that home, those parents
whose hearts you have rendered deso-
late? Guilty, miserable girl-'
' Oh, no, no,' I interrupted hastily,
'imprudent, cruel, I have been, dear
mother, but your child returns to you
as pure as when she left you. I appeal
to heaven to attest my innocence. Oh,
my mother, pardon the- poor prodigal,
who erred alone through youth and in-
experience, and who is now ready to
make all the atonement in her power.'
' Can this be true? Have you indeed
not endeavored to deceive me?' ejaculat-
ed my mother, eagerly,, and her eyes
beaming, fixed with a penetrating glance
upon my countenance, as though she
would read all that was passing in my
soul. 'But no, it is impossible. How
can you be innocent, uncontaminated?
did you not abandon your home, your
parents,  and throw yourself into the
arms of a villain, who-'
' Oh, mother, believe it not,' I return-
ed, with the tears at the same time
streaming down my cheeks. 'I acknow-
ledge that by the most base and subtle
means, and in a moment of thoughtless-
ness and imprudence, Mansville got me
into his power, and bore me far away
from my home. But I thought that he
meant to act honorably towards me.
He told me he would make me his bride.
I was too ready to believe him, and day
after day he made some plausible ex-
cuse to postpone the fulfilment of his
promise.  Think not, however, that
I suffered nothing. That you were ever
absent from my thoughts, or that the
fondly cherished recollections of my

ANCISCO.                         103
home, that home I had quitted, ceased
to torture my mind. Bitter, indeed,
were the pangs I endured. Ofttimes
would I have fled the place. and return
ed hither, but I dreaded to meet the re
preaches of my parents. When, how-
ever, Mansville threw aside the mask,
I overcame that dread, and your unhap-
py daughter has come back to solicit
your forgiveness, with her virtue as un-
sullied as when she left you.'
During the time I was speaking, the
agony evinced by my mother needs no
description, and when I had ceased, in
a paroxysm of delirous transport, she
snatched me from the earth and enfold-
ed me in her arms, exclaiming-
' My child-my long lost Clara! Yes,
I do indeed believe you, and pardon you,
Oh, this is a happiness that I never ex-
pected!'
' Mother, dear mother!' I cried, in a
tone of gratitude and delight which I
cannot adequately describe, 'to be suf-
fered once more to speak to you in this
place-to hear those blest words-to
know myself pardoned. My heart is so
full. Thus, thus only can I thank you.'
Again I threw my arms around her
neck, and pressing vehemently to her
bosom, she wept tears of joy.
' Unfortunate girl,' at length she said,
gently withdrawing herself herself from
my enthusiastic caresses, 'I believe you
innocent; but a mother's heart is more
indulgent than the world.  And, ah!
there is yet one to be appeased. Hark!
I hear footsteps. It is your father.
Softly-stand out of sight! He comes,.
but must not know you yet.'
Hastily throwing a veil over me, my
mother urged me into the summer-house,
and the next moment my father and the
father of Ele1n came from the house.


104                 MYSTEI t1ES AN
They were in conversation, and by the.
words which I overheard, it seemed that
the latter had been endeavoring to per-
suade my father to join the wedding
party.
'But at any rate,' said he, 'for half
an hour you might.'
'No,' returned my father, mournfully,
'I should only mar the festal hour. I
am the scathed tree of the heath that
cannot drop. The bolt that struck off
'my branches has left my old trunk erect
in wretched loneliness.'
Tis a shame, neighbor,' observed
his companion, 'it - is a shame, I say,
for a strong mind like yours to give it-
self up to sorrow in this way. You
might as well put a pistol to 'your head
at once, for you will be sure to kill
yourself by it, sooner or later, and self-
murder in one form is quite as criminal
as in another.'
'When you have seen the being for
whom you've lived,' retorted my father,
' the object of every solicitude-the
child you've  reared with  unceasing
watchfulness, wrenched from you by.a
villian's grasp, then come to me and talk
of patience, and I'll listen.'
'Well, well, I'll not weary, you any
longer,' observed Mr. Greenly; ' from
my soul I'm grieved to see you thus
abandoned to fruitless sorrow. Fare-
well, my friend, and may days be at
hand when we shall see you smile once
more.'
Thus saying, and grasping the hand
of uimy father most cordially, the father
of Tllen 'etired through the gate.
'Smile,' soliloquized the former, ashi
friend  left him; 'smile! Oh, happy
father!-happy to see his daughter saf
-in her native innocence-safe from th
bane of wealth. I once hoped tha

1D MISERIES
such a fate would beam on me; but fate
was jealous. Lost, lost, wretched girl !'
While mine unhappy father was thus
speaking, my mother entered the sum-
mer-house, and leading me forth, she
placed her finger on her lips to enjoin
me to silence.  We stood aside, and
watched him, unobserved.
'As I gaze there,' he continued, 'me-
thinks I see her in her days of innocence,
when first her little steps began: laugh-
ing, she ran, with arms extended towards
me; then I trembled lest her young feet
should fail, and she should fall. But
she passed through those, fearful times
unharmed. She escaped those thousand
dangers. Now. she falls-falls, to the
earth, never to rise! She's gone-she's
lost! My Clara! Oh, my child!'
My heart was ready to burst, and I
was almost choked with endeavouring
to repress the heavy sobs that heaved
my bosom. My father threw himself in-
to a chair, and my mother advanced to-
wards him, and touched him on the shoul-
der.
'A tear,' she observed, in gentle ac-
cents. 'Did I not hear our Clara's name
too? Did not your lips utter the name
of our child?'
'No, no,' he replied, hastily rising;
'let us, if possible, not think or speak
of her again.'
'Well, well, dearest husband,' return-
ed my mother, 'I will not urge it now;
but here is a poor creature, the daugh-
ter of-'
'Away---away!' hastily and vehement-
ly interrupted my unhappy parent. '.I
s have no daughter now.'
'No,' replied my mother; 'but this re-
e pentant child, the daughter of a neigh-
a bor, is on her way to ask forgiveness of
t her offended father. She faints with

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                   105

shame and grief, and dares not meet
him. Do speak a word or two of com-
fort to her, and teach her in what words
she should address him to gain his bless-
ing, and to sooth his anguish.'
'None,' replied my father, hastily,
and his eyes beaming wild, 'none. Let
her not dare to look upon him. Let not
her presence insult the home her infamy
has disgraced. Perhaps, too, she had a
mother, rich in every virtue. Let her
shun that mother, for contamination is
in her touch. Virtue can hold no in-
tercourse with vice, though vice, with
double baseness, kneels affecting rever-
ence for virtue.'
I found it impossible to help groaning
aloud, as I listened to my father's obser-
vations, and I threw myself into my mo-
ther's arms. He turned his eyes stead-
ly upon me for a minute or so, and then
resumed--
'Yet hold! I will not judge too harsh-
ly;,for there are shades of guilt, and
her's, perhaps, may not be of so deep a
dye as to preclude forgiveness. Perhaps
her father was not affectionate- Per-
haps (poor child!) he was morose and
frigid. Perhaps neglectful, cold, unin-
dulgent.'
'Oh, no!' I sobbed, and sank on my
knees before him with clasped and up-
raised hands,-' he was most kind, affec-
tionate, and good.'
'What,' eagerly demanded my poor
parent, 'did he love you better than all
the world?-did he rear you in domestic
tenderness, and train you in the paths
of virtue?-did he clasp you to his dot-
ing heart, and in his foolish pride pro-
claim his child the paragon of earth?-
and did you then blast all of his fond
hopes, and clinging to another, leave
him in his storm of grief?'

1

I

Again I groaned with the almost in-
supportable power of my anguish, and
still remained on my knees before him.
'Dearest husband,' said my mother,
'do not aggavate the dear child's mis-
ery. She is repentant--she is the shorn
lamb, temper the storm to her affliction,
but do not add another wound to a
heart already too much lacerated.'
' Well, well,' returned my father, ' be
it so. I will forget my own, and try
to sooth her sorrows. Young woman,
rise.'
He raised me from the earth, and
taking my hand tenderly, continued:-
' What your miseries are, I well can
guess; but what'your father's sufferings
are I too well know. You fear to meet
his eye; you dread to hear his curse. A
father's curse is heavy; shall I paint this
agonizing suffering to you, child! I can
do so; for I have felt it. I have it now.
I once.had a daughter.'
' Ob, sir, do not name her!' I cried,
with a feeling of agony, too powerful
for utterance.
' Oh, how I doted on that daughter,f
he continued, and his countenance be-
trayed the terrible mental agony he was
enduring. 'How I adored her, words
cannot tell; thoughts cannot measure!
Yet she sacrificed me to a villain,-her
ingratitude has bleached this head,-ber
wickedness has broken this heart, and
now my detestation is upon her! Oh,
do not you resemble her,-remain not
a moment longer from your father.-fly
to him ere his heart give way, as mine
does now-ere e curses you as I now
curse-'
'Oh, no more!' I interrupted, darting
forward in excessive agitation; 'in mer-
cy, oh, no more.'


106                  MYSTERIES AN
' Ha!' groaned my father, as he recog-
nised me and retreated from me, 'away!
away! away!'
In a wild delirium of agony, I follow-
ed him on my knees, exclaiming, in fran-
tic accents,-
'Your vengeance cannot make you
deaf to the agony of a despairing child;
behold me on my kiees; I bring the sac
rifice of a broken spirit. I do not ask
your love till you know I am worthy of
being loved. I do not ask your confi-
dence -till you feel I can be trusted; but
do not deny me the shelter of your pa-
ternal roof.'
' My father spurned me violently from
him, and ashe did so, he cried, in hoarse
tones,-
'H ence! hence!-I know you not!
My sight rejects you-spurns you! If
you have wasted all the spoils of guilt,
there-there's gold! Your idol, gold!
for which you bartered all your hopes of
bliss!'
He dashed a purse furiously to the
earth as he spoke, and hastened towards
my mother, fixing upon me looks of scorn
and hatred. Oh, Heaven! how each
glance penetrated to my soul! How
every word burnt to my heart! It was
wonderful that reason could retain her
empire in that trying scene.
'Father! father!' I implored, with re-
doubled vehemence, 'hear me, I beseech
you.'
'Husband, dearest husband!' suppli-
cated my mother, 'hear her, she is inno-
cent'
'Innocent!' he reiterated, 'she inno-
cent! No, no, impossible!-she left us;
left her happy parents-her happy home
-to follow a villain!'
'Father, dearest father!' I cried, 'tem-
per mercy, I pray you, with your sever-

[D MISERIES O.

ity. I am not the poor, guilty, degrad-
ed being that you suppose me to be.
Your child is still virtuous-still unpol-
luted; her only crime has been in loving
one too fondly, who sought to betray"
her! In the name of Heaven, I assert
my innocence, and if I speak not the
truth, may its most awful vengeance de-
scend upon my head! But you cannot,
you will not, longer doubt me. I see
you will not! Oh, bless you for this,
father, father!'
I could say no more; but sobbing con-
vulsively, I threw myself into his arms!
He wept;-yes, I could feel his chest
heave with the power of mental anguish,
and the big round tear of sorrow 'fell
from his eye upon my cheek; he pressed
me with all the fervour he had ever been
wont to do to his heart, and ere he pro-
nqnnced it, I knew that I was forgiven.
'My child! my Clara!' he at last cri-
ed, ' is it possible that I again hold you
innocent to my bosom? But no, the
the bliss is too great to be real! And
yet it is her! yes, it is my child; it is
her lips that have asserted her innocence
and appealed to Heaven to attest it, and
I can no longer doubt! Oh, happiness
supreme !   My long - lost, reclaimed
child ! Receive a parent's thanks.'
He could say no more for a minute or
two, but again did he clasp me with ec-
stacy to his bosom, and weep tears of
gratitude upon my cheek. Then he
would, withdrawing himself from me,
with an expression I find it impossible
to describe, gaze in my countenance, and
clasping his hands together, raised them
towards Heaven, in humble thanksgiving
for its goodness in restoring me, uncon-
taminated to his arms; while my poor
mother's emotion was equal to his own,
and she gazed on the scene with a sensa-
tion of the deepest gratitude and joy.

I

I

'But where is the villain who has
been guilty of this outrage?' he at length
demanded; 'let me hasten to him, and
demand satisfaction for the wrongs he
has done us; the many days and nights
of bitter misery he hascaused your un-
fortunate parents! Tell me to what in-
sult, what anguish did he expose you?
I am mad to hear the guilty tale!'
'Pray defer it, my dear husband, till
your feelings are more composed;' said
my mother.
' No, no, no,' hastily ejaculated my
father, and with the greatest impatience
depicted in his countenance.  'I will
hear it now! I will no longer hesitate!'
In as few words as possible, I com-
plied with my father's request, and re-
lated all the particulars of the earl's
conduct to me during the time I was in
his power." During the recital, the vio-
lent agitation of my father was plainly
visible, and when I had. concluded, he
walked backwards and forwards for a
short time, with disordered steps, and
muttering incoherent sentences to him-
self.
At length he turned to me, and clasp-
ing me vehemently to his bosom, ex.
claimed:-
'My child!,--my own one!-my still
innocent Clara!-Can I longer doubt
you?' Oh, no! you are restored to my
arms; guiltless as when in a moment of
imprudence you was snatched away from
your paternal roof! Oh! God! I thank
you for this! The trial has been a hea-
vy onel But my child has withstood
the temptation, the artifices of the liber-
tine, and the tempter, and I am again
happy! Bless you, bless you, my Cla-
ral-Oh, I was too severe to imagine for
a moment that you could be the guilty
being I supposed you to have become!-

Bless you againI!-Here in this fond
embrace!--This kiss of fervent affection,
let me at once seal your pardon for the
indiscretion of which you were guilty.
We will never again part, till death
shall interpose between us.'
Thus saying he snatched me fervently
to his heart, and imprinted warm kisses
upon my cheeks, my lips, my temples!
How shall I describe the feelings that
rushed through my veins at that mo-
ment? Language is by far too weak to
do justice to them. They must be left
to the warm imagination of the suscept-
ible reader!--I was unable to return
any answer; emotion choked my utter-
ance, and stifled the words of ecstacy
that would otherwise have flowed from
my lips. Again I felt the ardent em-
brace of that father whose forgiveness
I had despaired of ever being able to
obtain; once more I felt the glow of
his kiss upon my lips, and heard him
pronounce his forgiveness for the many,
many hours of bitter agony, of doubt,
of fear, I had caused him.-Surely an
age of anguish would have been trifling
to purchase such a few moments of bliss,
of exquisite transport, as those I then
experienced. Again and again he en-
folded me to his heart, and wept: like
a child did the poor old man weep tears
of inexpressible joy and gratitude upon
my bosom. My mother, too; what pen
could sufficiently depicture her emotions
upon that occasion.-She joined my
father in the embraces he bestowed up-
on me, and then we all three knelt, and
with hearts of sincerity, poured forth
our gratitude to that Omnipotent being
who had thrown the Almighty shield of
His protection around me in hours of
such eminent peril, and restored me in-
bocent to the home wherein I had pass-

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

107


MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

ed so many days of virtue and happiness,
and which the wily seducer had endea-
vored po artfully to make me disgrace
for ever! .
'But I will seek out the villain,' cried
my father, in vehement- tones, after the
first ebullitions of our joy and. gratitude
were over;-' yes I will go to him and
upbraid him for his base and brutal con-
duct, and demand of :him all the satis-
faction he can afford f-The feelings ofs
affectionate parents are not to be rack-
ed and insulted with impunityI!---No, by
Heaven, he shall find, that in epite of
his rank, he shall n.ot escape the just
indignation of those humble individuals
whom he would have disgraced and ren.
dered. eternally wretched. To-morrow
I will repair to the titled rake, and de-
mand-.-'
' Oh, my dearest parent,' I interrupt-
ed, 'pray do not think of such a thing;
rather leave him to his own conscience,
which, depend ipon it, will sooner or
later, be a severe monitor to him, and
amply punish him for his guilt. The
journey is too.long, at your time of life,
and besides, the result of. such an act,
without affording any satisfaction, might
be such as I dread even to think upon.'
' Clara!' observed my father, 'think
you I can tamely brook the injuries I
have received from the Earl Mansville ?
Oh, my child, did you but know, could
you but form the least conjecture of the
intense agony your disappearance, and
the fears, the suspicions, that naturally
resulted from it, caused both me and

have undergone; in the midst of the lux-
ury and magnificence that were display-
ed to ensnare me, it would rise in such
vivid colors to my imagination, that
many a time it surprises me how I can
have retained my senses. Then would
suspicion of the truth of Mansville rush
tumultuously upon my brain, and only
that I had dreaded to meet your reproa-
ches, long ere this I should have made
my escape from him, and return to your
fostering arms. Not able to form any
conjectures of your suffering?-Oh, my
father, the imagination constantly haun-
ted me;-sleeping or waking, it was ev-
er present to my mental vision; but the
deceptive art of Mansville, of which he
is so consummate a master, never failed
to use all the powers of his eloquence to
soothe me, and by specious promises,
day and dlay to quiet my apprehension
-I will own my weakness;-sach was
the powerful ascendancy he had obtain-
ed over my heart, that I was too ready
to listen to him; too willing to believe
that he spoke the truth-Oh, my belov-
ed parents, do me not the injustice to
suppose that I could for a moment learn
to become insensible of the imprudence
I had committed, or of the consequent
anguish that I knew it would involve
you in.'
'And do you not love Mansville now,
my child]' demanded my father, looking
earnestly in my face.
'Love him,' I repeated, and a blush
of indignation mantled my cheek as he
spoke;-' Oh, how degraded, how fallen

your poor mother, you could not thus I should be, could I now feel anything
advise.'                            but the utmost disgust and abhorrence
'Alas! my 'dear father,' I returned, for one who has acted with such dupli-
'you do me an injury to suppose that I city to me,aud who would have destroy-
have not keenly, severely, felt the mise- ed the happiness of my parents for ever!
ry yourself and my- dear mother muust No, my dear father, the youthful pas-

1

108

sions that are more powerfully excited I could scarcely believe that I had un-
in, favor of any particular object, are dergone what I had;-that I had ever
more likely to become changed to those even for a moment quitted my parental
of hatred and scorn, when it is discov- roof. Everything seemed as it was on
ered that the being who has. created the eventful morning when I had been
them, has acted the part of a heartless borne away, and the whole seemed like
traitor,-the vile deceiver,-It is thus some vision to warn me .from the impru-
with me, Mansville is torn from me for- dent step I had actually been guilty of.
ever; the place which his image occupi- The change effected in my father and
ed once, is now replaced by the deepest mother in so short a time was most as-
scorn and detestation.'              tonishing. The heavy care, the anguish
'Darling child!' cried my father, clas- of my father seemed dissipated, and was
ping me again in his arms. 'There is succeeded by joy and gratitude; looks
sincerity in every word you utter. Oh, of love and intense feeling which he con-
how could I ever suspect that you'd stantly beamed upon me; while my moth-
yield to the temptations of the guilty, er could scarcely control her happiness
and abandon the paths of virtue, in within bounds of reason.
which you were brought up?   This-     It might be imagined that my heart
this indeed is a joyful day; such a one as was too full-but it was not so=--on the
I never expected to experience again.- contrary, I partook of the repast with a
Come, come, child, into the house; let relish I never before enjoyed since I had
the blissful news be conveyed to all our quitted my paternal home. I was again
neighbors, that this day restores a at home! in the home of my childhood
daughter, imprudent once, but guiltless, restored to the love of my parents; and
to her doating parents' arms.'       never was the contrast of the comforts
' And let the past be forgotten in the of a virtuous home, with the empty lux-
happiness of the present,' said my moth- uries of wealth and magnificence, pre-
er, tears of ecstacy starting to her sented more powerful to my mind.
eyes:-' oh. Clara, you have returned   Never shall I forget the felicity I en-
at a time when joy predominates in the joyed on that day. In the course of an
bosoms of those dear friends, with whom hour or two my brother returned to the
we have been so long associated. Lit- farm. He embraced me affectionately,
tle did Ellen expect such a happy occur- but his indignation against ,Mansville
rence on the day of her nuptials'   . was equal to that of my father.
Encircling my waist with their arms,  It appeared that both my father and
my parents led me affectionately to the brother, had been indefatigable in en-
house, and in a short time I was seated deavoring to trace the earl, but without
at the breakfast table, and about to eat success.
of the repast beneath the roof in which I The day passed away, and at night,
had been reared, and from which I had for the first time in some months, I reti-
been so near being discarded for ever.- red to my chamber with the blessings of
How shall I describe my feelings on that my parents.  What ecstatic feelings
occasion, or those, it was evident, were thrilled through my veins, when I enter-
passing in the minds of my parents.- ed the little room where for so many

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

109


110                  MYSTERIES Al
years I had slept, and gazed upon eve-
ry well known object, which had under-
gone no perceptible change since I had
before reposed in it. It seemed indeed,
to have been unoccupied since the time I
had been from home; and every. article
I looked upon, appeared not to have
been disturbed. There was the same lit-
tle clean bed, with its furniture arrang-
ed with such admirable care and precis-
ion-the humble toilet-and everything
the same as when I had last used it.
There was the prayer book, the one
which had been presented to me by my
father many years before, and in which
was inscribed his name, with the leaf
turned down at the particular prayer
I remember to have used the night be-
fore my elopement. With a heart over-
flowing 'with gratitude, I knelt down,
and fervently breathed that prayer, and
to it added one of thanks to Heaven, for
the manner in which I had been saved
from the sorrow and disgrace with which
I had been threatened, and invoked its
blessings on the heads of my parents and
my brother. Then, with a lighter heart
than I had experienced for many a day,
I retired to my couch, and soon fell off
into a calm slumber. No painful vision
haunted my imagination that night; my
dreams were those of bliss. Of the joys
of home, and the affection of adoring pa-
rents; and in the morning I awoke to a
renewal of that happiness and content,
which had ever been mine before I be-
came acquainted with the Earl of Mans-
Ville.
But what were my sentiments now as
regarded Mansville ? Need I try to
portray them?  I am certain that I
need not! They were fully embodied in
the observations I had made use of to
my father. The mask which the deceiv-

ND MISERIES

I

er had thrown off, having shown me his
character in its real light, I thought of
him only with disgust and abhorrence,
and had he even then offered to make
all the reparation in his power, by be-
stowing upon me his hand, I felt confi-
dent that I should have rejected it with
scorn.- Great as had been my trial, and
painful as had been the circumstances
by which it had been attended, I felt I
had no cause to regret it now, but, on
the contrary, to feel, in a manner thank-
ful that it did occur, as it had taught
me a a lesson I shall never forget, and
had afforded me that experience in the
deceptive practices resorted to by the
the -wealthy and unprincipled of man-
kind, which would prevent me for the fu-
ture from approaching the precipice of
destruction, down which I was so near
being plunged.
I arose the following morning at the
early hour to which I had been accustom-
ed, and found my father, mother, and
brother, already assembled in the little
parlor, and the morning's repast spread
upon the table. I could perceive, as
soon as I entered, that they had been
discussing something particular, and it
was not long ere I was made acquainted
with it. I found that my father and my
brother had come to the determination
of going to the Earl Mansville, in spite
of my entreaties, and the observations I
had the previous day made use of, to in-
duce them to abandon their design, and
such Was their eagerness to see Mans-
ville, and demand an explanation of him,
that they had resolved not to delay
any longer than the following day.
' I fully appreciate your motives, my
dear child,' said my father, 'but, after
mature deliberation, I cannot consent
to comply with your wishes. Were we

to suffer the matter to rest where it is
it would be yielding a cowardly submis-
sion to guilt, which my heart revolts
from; and, moreover, would give the
foul tongue of slander an opportunity of
propogating surmises derogatory to your,
reputation. No, nothing will satisfy me,
but a plain acknowledgment of his guilt,
and your innocence from his own lips,
and a sufficient apology 'to satisfy the
world at large. Were I to seek repa-
ration in a court of law, his wealth and
high rank would be a sure protection for
him.'
'It would,' coincided my brother,
' and I see no other means of obtaining
any satisfaction than the course we are
about to pursue.'
In this opinion, my mother coincided,
and, much as I dreaded the consequen-
ces that might attend it, I was at a loss
for arguments to combat their resolu-
tions. This day passed away in the same
manner as the previous one, and the fol-
lowing morning, after a most affection-
ate farewell, my father and brother took
their departure by the coach, for the
mansion of the Earl Mansville.
After my father and brother had left,
my mind underwent several gloomy pres-
ages, and though I perfectly agreed with
the propriety of the arguments my fath-
er had made use of, I could not but sin-
cerely regret that they had not aban-
doned their design.
My mother endeavored to sooth me
by all the arguments in her power; and
said that, doubtless Mansville, for his
own credit's sake, would be ready to
make all the reparation that was in his
power.
'Alas!1' thought I, ' what recompense
can he make me for the injury he has in-
flicted on my peace of mind? Noth-

111

ing can make amends for the pain of
discovering that the only object upon
which we have placed all our young
heart's warmest affections is base,treach-
erous, and unworthy of that passion;
and I now as thoroughly despised Mans-
ville as I had before loved him, for that
he had thrown a blight upon my mind
from which I could never thoroughly
recover.
We expected the return of my father
and brother in about three or four days
from the time they had left home, as
they would have nothing to detain them
after they had obtained the interview
they sought with the Earl Mansville, as
they were fully aware that if they pro-
tracted their presence, it would excite
our utmost alarm. The fourth and fifth
day, however, elapsed, and still they re-
mained absent. Our apprehensions be-
gan to be excited in the utmost degree,
and all the fearful forebodings that had
before haunted my mind, returned with
redoubled force.
In spite of all her efforts to appear to
the contrary, the fears of my mother,
were, if possible, more excited than my
own, and conjecture was exhausted in
vain, to endeavor to account for the pro-
crastination of their return.
Another day elapsed in this manner,
and yet we heard nothing of them, and
then, indeed, our terrors was aroused to
an almost insupportable pitch, and we
no longer sought to disguise from each
other the real state of our feelings upon
the agonizing subject. I expressed to
my mother all those forebodings I had
before indulged in, and she could not
but admit the too great probability of
them. Now did she join with me in
deeply regreting that my father and
brother had not yielded to my advice,

OF SAN FRANCISCO.


r

112,

MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

oIr that she should have made one to
urge .the propriety of the course they
had taken. What step to pursue we
were at a loss to conceive.
'I cannot wait in this horrible state
of suspense any longer,' my mother ejac-
ulated, when the seventh day dawned,
and we heard no tidings of them; 'I'll
instantly take G--m, and learn at
once the cause of this mysterious delay,
and whether or not anything has hap-
pened to them. This dreadful state of
doubt and suspicion is worse than the
most terrible certainty.'
She had scarcely-given utterance to
these words when a knock was heard at
the outer door, and a letter was present-
ed to my mother, which she knew imme-
diately to be in the hand-writing of her
husband. Trembling violently with ap-
prehension, she broke the seal, but had
not read more than two lines when, with
a piercing scream, she fell senseless to
the floor. I-flew to her, raised her in
my arms, and then, taking up the fatal
letter, began to read the contents. The
commencement of it was enough to
smite my heart with horror; and it is
marvellous how, under such trying cir-
cutnstances, I retained possession for an
instant of my faculties. My unfortu-
-nate father and brother were in goal,
accused of murder-of the murder of
my deceiver, the Earl Mansville!i
My frantic cries soon brought the
servants of my father to the room, who
immediately conveyed my mother to her
chamber, while I was reduced to such a
state by the shock which my feelings
had sustained, that it-was found neces-
sary to call in medical advice to me, as
well as the former. I remained in a
state of almost utter unconsiousness for
several days, during which period I con-

tinually raved of the murdered Mans-
ville, and the awful charge which: I'
would fain have believed my unhappy
parent and brother were innocent of ;
but which, under peculiar circumstan-
ces, seemed, alas! but too probable.
My mother had been restored to com-
parative composure much earlier than
might have been anticipated from the
violence of the shock her feelings had
received; and when I regained my sen-
ses, I found that she had started, the
day following the one on which she had
received the fatal letter, for G--m,
to seek an interview with her wretched
husband and son, and to obtain an ex-
planation of the horrible circumstances.
The person who attended me had the
utmost difficulty in persuading me not
to follow her; and it was only by the
determined tone in which the medical
man spoke, stating that the consequen-
ces of such a journey, in my then state
of mind, might be productive of the most
fatal results, that I was prevented from
putting my wishes into effect.
Too soon, alas! the horrible particu-
lars reached my ears, which I will pro-
ceed to relate as they were afterwards
detailed by my father.
It appeared that after my father and
brother had left home, they immediately:
repaired to the coach-office, ,where they
had booked their places the evening be-
fore, and took their departure for
G- m, whither they arrived the even-
ing without anything occurring worthy'
of being particularly noticed. As. it
was rather late, they resolved not to vis.
it the earl till the morning, and accord-
ingly took up their lodgings at an inn
in the place. Not feeling disposed to
-go to rest for the present, they thought
they would take a bit of a walk in the

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

113

neighboring fields previous to supper, rection which the two persons had tak-
and- accordingly they walked forth, and en; and having arrived at a dark and
instinctively directed their footsteps to- lonely spot, to which they were attract-
wards the mansion of Mansville. They ed by groans of agony, they beheld, by
had proceeded across several fields, and the faint light of the moon, whose rays
had entered upon a dark and gloomy now penetrated through the thick foli-
lane, which, they had been informed, age above their heads the form of a
led to his house, when suddenly they man elegantly attired, stretched upon
beheld, by the dim light of the moon, the earth and weltering in his blood,
the shadows of two men before them, while by his side lay the pistol with
one of whom was a short -way in ad- which the fatal and cruel deed had been
vance of the other. They did not take committed, and which the assassin had
particular notice of this at first, as there left behind him.
was nothing at all extraordinary in the  My father raised the unfortunate man
circumstance; yet, when they perceived in his arms, and the moonlight stream-
that one of them still kept in the rear ing full upon his countenance, my bro-
of the other, and that he was evidently ther suddenly exclaimed, in a voice of
fearful of being seen, they determined to mingled astonishment and exultation-
watch his actions more narrowly. They,  'Ah! by Heaven, retribution has
therefore, kept as close to the hedfie as overtaken the guilty! It is the villain,
possible, so that they might not be ob- the betrayer, Mansville!'
served, and yet cautiously kept advanc-  The fatal words had scarcely escaped
ing towards the two- men, and taking my brother's lips when a party of men,
particular notice of their actions. The who had also been attracted by the re-
one in advance made a motion as though port of the pistol, rushed to the spot;
reflection was almost too dreadful for hu- and having overheard what he'said, and
he would turn round, when the other seeing the wounded nobleman stretched
immediately stepped aside so that he upon the earth, and my father and bro-
could not be seen; and it then became ther standing over him-the latter with
very clear that he was after no good the weapon of death in his hand, be-
purpose, or why appear so anxious for lieved them to be the perpetrators of
concealment? My poor father and bro- the bloody deed; and accusing them ac-
ther, therefore, redoubled their speed, cordingly, and seizing then, in spite of
entertaining strong suspicions that the their remonstrances and solemn protes-
fellow was a highwayman, and that they tations of their innocence, they bore
might be the means of preventing, pro- them away to the nearest prison, while
bably, robbery and murder.          the wounded Mansville was conveyed to
They had not proceeded far when a his mansion.
turning in the lane hid them from obser-  My God! how my very soul trembles
vation, and directly afterwards the re- when I recall to my memory this dread-
port of a pistol vibrated on their ears. ful event, and my blood freezes in my
Fearful, from all they had 'observed, veins with the most indescribable sensa-
that murder had been committed, they tion of horror. Alas! who shall say
now ran with all their speed in the di- I that my sufferings have not indeed been


114

MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

mevere!-It is really wonderful how I
have found strength of mind to endure
them all; how one so young, and, until
lately, a complete stranger to misery,
should be able to bear up tinder such an
almost unprecedented accumulation of
horrors. But my troubles were far from
being yet complete.
The unfortunate Mansville was mor-
tally wounded, and breathed his last be-
fore morning, never having rallied from
the first, and having been unable to
speak after he was first discovered.
And here must I pause to reflect upon~
the terrible fate of the Earl Mansville;
as I do so, the remembrance of his
faults, and his conduct towards me, are
forgotten in the one strong and irresist-
ible feeling of pity which inhabits my,
breast. His fate was marked 'by the
most - signal retribution of Heaven.
The week following that of his assassi-
nation, he was to be united to a young,
beautiful, and wealthy heiress, to whom
he had been paying his devoirs, at the
same time he Was pleading the most
powerful passion for me, and most so-
lemnly' protesting, from time to time,
that he would make me his bride. Ill-
fated, but guilty Mansville! Heaven
pardon you for the deception of which
you were guilty, as I now do.
My father and Edwin underwent se-
veral examinations before the justices,
and evidences of their guilt appeared so
numerous, that few, if any, attempted
to defend them.
It was well known in what manner
they were related to me, and the circum-
stances under which I had been placed
with the murdered Mansville, and, there-
fore, what had brought my father and
brother to G--m, but to seek revenge?
Besides, it was proved by the landlord

of the inn where they had taked lodg-
ings, that they had left his house at a
late hour in the evening together, and,
that, previous to doing so, he had a
conversation with them, in course of
which they had asked several strange
questions respecting the deceased Earl
Mansville, which were quite sufficient
to strengthen the suspicions that were
already excited against them; and more
particularly they had made several in-
quiries as to the nearest way to the
murdered nobleman's mansion, and had
been directed the exact way in which
they had been discovered. An inquest
was held upon the deceased, the jury
upon which tunhesitatingly returned a
verdict of wilful murder against my
father and brother; and ultimately they
were committed to the assizes for trial.
This was precisely the state of the af-
fair, when we received the letter which
was from ray father; need it, therefore,
excite any astonishment that our feelings
were almost maddening?-The circum-
stantial evidence against them was very
strong, and alas! how many innocent
persons had suffered under far less sus-
picious circumstances?-The idea was
enough to freeze the blood with horror,
and here again did I find cause most bit-
terly to reproach myself for one act of
indiscretion which had thus been pro-
ductive.of this awful misery, and might
be the occasion of bringing my father
and brother to an awful and ignomin-
ous fate, for a crime of which they were
entirely innocent.
The day after this, I received a letter
from my mother, in which she described,
in language I should fail to do adequate
justice to, were I to try, the interview
she had had with her husband and son
at the gaol in which they were confined,

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

but sought to inspire me with hope that
something would take place to establish
their innocence, and bring the real per-
petrators of the horrid crime to justice.
I tried to think so too. Never, I re-
flected will the Almighty suffer two in
nocent beings to suffer for the sanguin-
ary crime of the real assassin! They
will be saved,,and the monster who has
committed this atrocious crime brought
to that punishment which his guilt mer-
its.'
These were but for a short time my,
reflections, then would the heavy weight
of circumstantial evidence, which would
be adduced against them on their trial,
recur to my memory, and despair would
again begin to settle upon my heart.
My mother mentioned in her letter
that the assizes were expected to com-
mence in about a fortnight, and that,
until the result of this awful affair was
known, she intended to reside near the
gaol, so that she might be enabled to
visit the unfortunate prisoners every
day. She added; that, if I thought my-
self capable of the task, and able to sup-
port an interview, I might also repair to
the spot, leaving the farm for the time
we were absent to the care of Ellen and
her husband. To remain where I was,
alone, with no one but Ellen to offer me
the least consolation'or advice, I fel t
would be worse than death; and, there-
fore, having made a powerful effort to
conquer my emotions, I arranged the
business with Ellen and her husband,
and with the prayers of my friends for
the happy termination of the trial, I
set forward upon my melancholy jour-
ney.
What tongue could give utterance to
the intense agony of my feelings, when
the coach arrived at G--m, the place

115

which I had so lately quitted to seek
the forgiveness of my parents. Alas!
under what different, what horrible cir-
cumstances did I now return to it. He
who had'first tempted me to act wrong
had met with an untimely fate, and my
father and brother the inmates of a pris-
on, accused of his assassination.
The day after my arrival at G--m,
I had an interview with my unfortunate
relatives, but I must pass over that
deeply agonizing scene; I cannot recall
it to my memory without harrowing up
my feelings. They both, however, at-
tempted to appear more composed than
I might have expected them to have
been, and endeavoured to inspire me and
my mother with the most sanguine hopes
as to the result of the trial. We, how-
ever, could see but very little to excite
any such ideas, and although, for the
sake of calming their feelings, we pre-
tended to place some reliance in what
they said, we were very far from actual-
ly entertaining any such feelings.
I will pass over the time which inter-
vened previous to the trial, and come at
length to the morning on which the fate
of all my family, I might say, depended.
The hall of justice was densely crowded,
and the trial excited the most uncom-
mon interest. Myself and my mother
were accomodated with seats near the
dock in which the accused were, and
whenever, by chance, I happened to look
up, I caught the eyes of the, spectators
fixed alternately upon me and my mo-
ther; but in the brief glance which I suf-
fered myself to take, I beheld that the
expression with which they contemplat-
ed us was more of pity than any other
feeling.
I know not how it was, but I felt a
degree of firmness on that awful occasion


116

MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

which I never thought it would be in
my power to assume, and my mother
was perfectly calm and resigned. As
for the prisoners, their whole demeanour
showed the dignified firmness of perfect
innocence, and a firm reliance on the
goodness of Providence for the issue.
The jury having been called over and
sworn, the trial commenced, and the
charge having been made, my father and
brother both answered in a firm voice to
the usual interrogatory put to them, as
to whether they were guilty or not guil-
ty--
'Not guilty!'
The trial then proceeded, which is
quite unnecessary for me too recapita-
late.
The jury retired to consider their ver-
dict-and oh, God! what a moment o
horrible suspense was that! All eyes
were turned alternately upon me and
my mother, and then the prisoners ii
the dock. But the latter were as firmn
as if they had only been spectators them
selves, and frequently turned upon me
and my poor mother glances that were
meant to encourage us.     '
The jury were absent about twenty
minutes, which seemed as many hourE
to those who-weie so deeply and pain
fully interested in this important trial
and at length they returned into th
court.
The foreman of the same, in a deel
voice said-.
'GUILrY!'
An appalling shriek followed the pro
nunciationiof the verdict;:it proceede
from ing another, who sank insensible i
my arms.- It essemed at that time as.
I were endowed with superhuman pow
er; my faeulties were all restored to  m
atid I was enabled to support with' firn

ness that was most extraordinary. The
verdict had fallen upon my ear, in aman,.
ner of speaking, with complete indiffer-
ence, and, it appeared as if a voice at
that moment whispered to me hope in-
stead of despair. - But I feared to look
at my father and his unhappy son. I
was apprehensive that their bare glance
of horror and despair would be sufficient
to deprive me of my senses. The judge
. then proceeded to pass sentence of death,
but ere he had utteredhalf-a-dozen words
a gentleman suddenly arose from his
seat, and with his whole frame convulsed
with emotion, exclaimed-
' Hold my lordI!-proceed not to sen-
tence men who are entirely innocent of
the charge.
After the lapse of a minute or two
f for the court to recover themselves from
the confusion into which this event had
thrown them, the judge demanded of
the gentleman the meaning of his inter-
ruption.
'In a few words, it is this,' said the
gentleman, ' you behold before you an
unhappy wretch, who ought to have
been placed in the dock now occupied
by those much injured, and wrongly ac-
s cused men. Nay, you may well be sur-
- prised, and it willjdoubtless be increas-
, ed, when I  tell you that .in me you be-
e hold the actual murderer of the Earl
Mansville, and I, therefore demand that
p justice be done upon me!'
Nothing could now equal the extra-
ordinary sensation which prevailed, and
- it was at first, no doubt, immagined by
d many that the gentleman's feelings who
n ha- thus .denounced himself had been
if worked upon and excited by the circum-
r- stances of the trial, and' that insanity
, had suddenly seized-upon his brain; but
a- they were soon convinced of the contra-

I

'I-

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

ry, for the self-accused having paused
awhile to suffer the excitement to sub-
side, continued-
'It 'was this hand which perpetrated
the hellish deed upon the unfortunate
Mansyille, the pistol which was found
by the side of the deceased will be seen
to have my initials engraved upon it.'
The pistol was here handed up to the
judge, when the initials were found.
'The awful tale is soon told,' continu-
ed he.
'The late Earl Mansville and myself
had been companions at college. Soon
after our return from the university, I
formed an attachment to a young lady,
and was permitted to pay my addresses
to her. This courtship went on for a
period of two years, when it was sudden-
ly broken off. In vain I sought an ex-
planation. Nothing more relative to
this affair transpired until about a month
ago, when, judge my resentment and sur-
prise, to learn that the late Earl Mans-
ville, was the admitted lover of the lady,
and that their nuptials were actually fix
ed to take place on a certain day. On
ascertaining the truth of this, I demand,
ed an explanation of such extraordinary
conduct; but all that I obtained in re-
turn, was the most provoking raillery !
I quitted the unfortunate nobleman vow-
ing the most dreadful vengeance. On
the evening that I committed the hellish
crime, I quitted my own house, with the
pistols now produced in my possession,
fully bent to way-lay and murder my ri-
val. Once he turned to look round, and
then I jumped into a dry ditch, and con-
cealed myself. He resumed his journey,
and acting under the influence of a sud-
nen impulse, I presented the fatal weap-
on at him, and fired, just as he prepared
to walk on. What followed has already

117

appeared in the evidence brought against
those two men, most wrongfully accused
As the day of trial approached, so did
my agony increase. Could I be guilty
of a three-fold muder? I could not; so,
this day, I resolved to be present, and
confess. I admit, that my resolution
failed me so much, that I was unable to
put this into effect, until after the trial
had proceeded to the present length;
but I have now acquitted my conscience
of that additional and heavy sin, and I
feel content to abide by the consequen-
ces. I repeat that the men in the dock
are entirely innocent, and that I only am
the murderer of the late Earl Mansvillc.
I demand that justice be done, and thus
give myself up to this tribunal to be tri-
ed and punished by the laws of my of-
fended country.'
A murmur of surprise, horror, and
satisfaction ran through t he court at
this remarkable confession, and for a few
moments, the business was entirely sus
pended. My mother had recovered, and
overheard all that had passed. But sud-
denly, the court was aroused by all the
the judges rising, and declaring it as
their unanimous opinion, that the two
individuals who had been tried had
been charged and convicted by the jury
of the murder of the Earl Mansville,
were now shown to be clearly innocent,
that the court, therefore, annul the ver-
dict, and ordering them to be discharg-
ed out of custody, command Richard
Archibald Holland, to be placed at the
bar and indicted, upon his own confes-
sion, for the wilful murder of the said,
Horatio, Earl Mansville.
'My father and brother were immedi-
ately released from the dock,-while, the
real assassin was placed at the bar.
But misfortune and I had still got to


118              MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

be longer acquainted; and too soon her
heavy afflictions came upon me with
overwhelming force. .The shock which
my mother's feelings had undergone by
the recent events had made fearful in-
roads on her constitution, and it soon
became too alarmingly apparent, that
she was sinking under a rapid decl ine.
All the medical resources were o no
avail, and she at length yielded to the
fearful malady.
My father and all of us, were incon-
solable for her loss.
Only three months after my 'poor
mother's death, my- brother was seized
with a violent typhus fever, which my
father quickly caught of him. A few
short months only, consigned those two
dear relatives to the grave also. Would
that it had pleased the Almighty to
take me also, then I should not have
.had to undergo the miseries, the degra-
dations I have toosmuch reason to fear
it is yet my lot to suffer. Illness and
incessant trouble had involved my fath-
er's affairs in difficulties, from which I
found it impossible to extricate them.
Let me draw my melancholy recital to
a conclusion. Hard necessity drove me
at last to seek the protection of rela-
t ives, whose jibes and cruelties drove
me to the life I now lead) and the letter
you brought me was from  the clergy-
man of our parish, who having learnt
of my whereabouts, addressed me an
exhortation to repentance; recalling all
the incidents of the bitter past. Here
Clara burst into a fresh flood of tears,
and owned her intention to quit her pre-
sent shameful mode of life.
' And 'now, Mr. Monteagle,' continu-
ed Clara, 'to prove to you that I am
really penitent; I will divulge to you a
contemplated crime, which was planned

in this very house, and this night it is to
be carried into effect. Belcher Kay and
Blodget one night killed a rich old dro-
ver, and buried him in an old adobe hut.
They have since learned that Inez, the
daughter of old de Castro, had taken
shelter in the building from a storm and
witnessed all their proceedings. The
Vigilance Committee are already ap-
prised of the facts, but in Miss de Cas-
tro's terror at the fearful scene, she for-
got the names by which they addressed
each other; but she is convinced that
she will know their persons if ever she
meets them. You know these villains
will never consent to live in hourly fear
of arrest and punishment. They have,
therefore, determined to attack the man-
sion of de Castro, at the Mission, rob
it, and I fear kill his daughter to prevent
her appearing as a witness against them.'

CHAPTER XII.
INEZ CARRIED OFF.
IN a public room of a tavern in Paci-
fic street, we shall find Belcher Kay. It
is night, and-through the thick haze of
cigar smoke which filled the room the
candles glimmer like distant lights seen
through a fog. The close atmosphere of
the dirty room is laden with the odor of
the said tobacco smoke, and with the
fumes of rum and whiskey, and through
the hum of noisy conversation and .over
the occasional bursts of laughter may be
distinguished the ' Hagel und donner' of
the Dutchman, the ' sacre' of the French-
man, and the imprecations which the
Englishman invokes upon his visual or-
gans and the crimson tide that circulates
through his veins.
At one table sat half a dozen sailors,
bronzed by the tropical sun of Java, and
smoking long pipes with enormous bowls.
At another table sat a group of English,
French, American and Portuguese, simi-
larly engaged, while two other tables
were surrounded by Lascars and Malays,
who being worshippers of the one race
of Brahma, the other of Boodha, choose
to sit and drink apart. Mingled with the
men at each table were a number of
Kanaka and Chilean women, dark-eyed,
seductive creatures; all well formed,
lithe, and graceful, and of all ages vary-
ing from twelve to eighteen years, for
beneath the scorching sun of the tropics
woman advances towards maturity as
quickly as the rich fruits are ripened and
the gorgeous flowers expanded into beau-
ty. These lost and degraded creatures
sat by the side or on the knees of their
lovers of the hour, their long, shining
black hair falling in plats or ringlets

upon their dusky shoulders, and their
bosoms very much exposed, and many of
them smoked cigars with their male
companions.
Kay sat apart from the revellers, smok-
ing a cigar, with his arms folded across
his breast, a moody and sombre expres-
sion upon his countenance, and his eyes
bent upon the dirty floor. Ile was think-
ing of the past-thinking, amid the riot-
ous din of jests and oaths, laughter and
song, of all that he had been, and of
what he might have been, of time mis-
spent, and golden opportunities lost, of
talents misapplied and energies misdi-
rected. It was a mournful retrospect
for the man not wholly lost, his heart
was not entirely corroded, nor all indur-
ated by vice and profligacy, the powers
of his mind had not become sapped by
the vicious excesses in which he had in-
dulged; he was capable of forming a
sound judgement of human actions, both
his own and those of others; and to look
back excited for these reasons, feelings,
sombre and mournful. The past of his
life was a dreary waste to look back up-
on ; he was fully conscious of the fact,
he was able to discriminate between'the
right and the wrong, and to perceive his
errors, and he felt at that moment all the
dreariness, the moral void, of the vista
upon which lie turned his mental vision.
True, the desert was not entirely with-
out its oaises; there were green spots
breaking the gloomy monotony of its
arid and cheerless aspect, but these only
deepened by the contrast the impression
made by the general barrenness.
He was roused from his reverie by the
words of a song sung, or rather shouted
by one his countrymen-an Englishman
-a sailor belonging to a vessel then ly-
ing in the harbor. There was nothing

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                110


120              MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

to interest him in the words themselves,
but they seemed familiar to him, like a
voice heard in our youth and half forgot-
ten, which we hear again after a long
interval of time, and they struck upon.
his mind by the force of association. In
his boyhood he had heard that song,
which had been a favorite chant with a
schoolfellow, and the words now called
up a thousand recollections of the time
when he had first heard them, just as the
remembered sound of the church-bells of'
our native place will recall such memo-
ries when we hear them after long ab-
sence from the scenes of our early ex-
istence. To the mind of the robber, pre-
disposed to reflection, the words of the
song recalled the school-room and the
play-ground, with many a reminiscence
of merry companions and boyish games ;
and from these his heart wandered to
the home of his childhood, to the little
garden into which he had transplanted
primroses and cowslips from the woods
to the rippling brook upon which he had
launched his tiny ships. to the darkly
shaded seat under the old elm tree on
which he had rested when weary, to the
innocent and smiling faces of his fair-'
haired sisters-
It was not for the first time that Bel-
cher Kay, thought of these things-it
was not the first time that they had
drawn a sigh from his breast ; but, now
at that distance of space from the scenes
which he visited in thought, the tide of
memory rolled over his brain with re-
doubled volume and force. A melan-
choly pleasure might have been experi-
enced in travelling over in thought the
scenes of his youth, but for the reflection
that between the past and the present
rose darkly and frowningly one of those

barriers of crime and folly, which such
men build up with far more persever-
ance thau they would exert to acquire a
fame that would endure as long as truth
and virtue command respect and admir-
ation. Such a barrier had Belcher Kay
raised with a diligence and energy which
he had never displayed in aught worthy
of praise, and from it he now looked
back upon the Eden which he had aban-
doned, with such feelings as may be im-
agined.
He was still sitting in the position
which has been described when Blodget
entered the room, and,.coming up to
him, clapped his hand upon his shoulder.
Kay started, but looking up, he was re-
assured by the recognition of his fellow
criminal, and extended his hand, which
Blodget grasped with friendly fervor.
' Come 1' exclaimed Blodget. 'I have
been seeking you everywhere. Let us
get away from this.'
'I am ready,' responded Kay, rising.-
'What's in the wind now, mate?'
Blodget made no reply, 'but led the
way into the street, followed by Kay.
In a few minutes they had left the city
behind them, and could hear the hoarse
roar of the sea as its waves, after chasing
one another over the wild expanse of the
Pacific ocean,broke upon the shell strewn
beach, and the sighing of the night wind
among the bushes. The moon was sink-
ing, and the shadows prevailed over the
lights, but it was prineipaly the land
which lay in shade, while the ocean
spread out like an illimitable sheet of
silver.
After crossing the hills which sur-
mount the city the two men gave a loud
shrill whistle which in a few moments
brought three more desperadoes to as-

sist them in their scheme. This was no
other than an attack upon the mansion
of Senor de Castro with the intention of
making themselves masters of the mon-
ey and plate to be found on the premises,'
and for another purpose which will ap-
pear in the course of the narrative.
When the five robbers arrived in the
vicinity of the house Bloodget proceeded
towards it, for the purpose of carrying
their plot into execution, while the rest
of the party lay closely concealed ready
to hasten to the assistance of their asso-
ciate the moment such service should be
required.
'Yes, there is the window; I wonder,
now, if she will look out to night said
Blodget to himself as he cautiously
drew near the house.
Blodget took a good look at the win-
dow and then slowly glided away under
the shadow of a wall.
With great tact, Blodget as he did
so glided along, kept the little window
with the balcony in sight.
Now, the little window of the room in
which Inez resided, was not very far from
the ground.
That is to say, at all events, the lower
portion of its balcony certainly was not
above twelve feet from the green sward
actually below it.
The idea struck Blodget, then, that
through teat window he must get, and
through it again he must make his way
out with his captive.
How he meant to overcome the very.
many difficulties that still stood in his
way, it is impossible to conceive; but he
had not come totally unprepared with
the means of action.
Coiled un in the pockets of the clothes
whichL..' e sd worn all the latter part of

the day, he had had a couple of ropes of
silk, with a hook at the end of each of
them.
He expected, and not without reason,
too, that they would be to him of the
very greatest possible assistance.
It took him some little consideration
before he would venture to cross the bit
of lawn that.seperated him yet from the
house; and, strange to say, while he was
so considering, another circumstance be-
gan to operate'in his favor.
A soft, but rather thick and penetra-
ting rain began to fall.
' Aha" he said 'this is capitol. This
will clear the ground of all loiterers.
This is providential.'
Letting the rain continue for some five
minutes or so until he considered it had
had all its effect, Blodget crossed the
lawn, and stood beneath the balcony of
the window.
Blodget was very acute in his sense of
hearing, and he now bent that faculty to
the very utmost to listen if any one were
moving in the rooms above.
All was as still as the very grave.
'She has gone to bed,' thought Blod-
get. '\Well, I don't care. I must take
her away, and take her I will.'
A very dim light was close to the win-
dow.
' I wonder,' thought Blodget, if she
will scream before I can get a gag put
into her mouth?  If she does, I may
have dangers to encounter; but I never
yet abandoned an enterprise on that ac-
count, nor will I now.'
Truly dangerous was a climate in
which such a man as Blodget lived.
He now looked carefully to the right
and to the left of the place of which he
was, so as to assure himself that no sen-

OF SAN FRANCISCO.               121


122                  MYSTERIES A
tiuel was close at hand, and then he bold-
lv flung up the cords to which the hooks
ware attached, to the balcony.
It took him three or four efforts be-
fore he succeeded in getting the hooks
to hold fast, and then he found that the
cords easily suspended him.
This was rather a ticklish part of the
business to climb up to the' balcony now
with the possibility, if not the probabili-
ty, that some one might see him; but
yet he meant either to do it or abandon
the whole affair at once, so he set about
it with a feeling that might be said to
approach to recklessness._
He reached the top of.the parapet of
the balcony, and rather rolled over it than
stepped over, so that he exposed himself
to observation to as small an extent as,
under the circumstances, it was-at all
possible so to do.
There he lay crouched up in the bal-
cony, pretty well shaded by its stone
work and parapet from any further ob-
servation from without.
He breathed in rather an agitated man-
ner for a few moments, for he had under-
gone, to tell the truth, very great person-
al exertion.
Soon, however, he recovered sufficient-
ly to assist him in going on in his enter-
prise; and accordingly, sidling along ve-
ry carefully till he got quite close to the
window, he cautiously tried if it were.
fast.
No. It yielded to a touch.
'More good fortune,' thought"he.
Slowly, for it took a good five minutes
to do, thinking that any noise now occa-
sioned by precipitation would be fatal to
him and his project, he got the window
open about a couple of feet.
He put his hand into the room, and

NTD MISERIES

1

felt that there was a table close to the
window.
By carefully moving his hand and arm
horizontally from left to right and from
right to left, he found there was nothing
on the table but a glass of water, in which
were some flowers.
In order to get it out of the way, he
lifted the glass into the balcony, and
placed it carefully in one corner out of
the way.
Then it was that the audacious Blod-
get, like an oily snake, slid into the room
through the partially open window, and
was fairly within the apartment.
His next step was to remove the table
from before the window, and to open the
window itself very much wider-in fact,
as wide as it would possibly go.
Then it was that he saw' where the
faint light had come from that was in
the room.
A little oil night-light was on a brack-
et fixed to the wall of the room.
That light, although very small in it-
self, was yet sufficient to dissipate the
'darkness that was in the place, and by
it\ Blodget with great satisfaction looked
around him, and was quite convinced
that he was in the suite of rooms in the
occupation of Inez.
There was one circumstance that to
him was quite convincing on Shat head,
for on the chimney-piece was a small
but finely painted.miniature of Montea-
gle.
' Yes,' whispered Blodget, as he drew
a long breath, 'I am on the right scent
now.,
Immediately opposite to the window
there was a door that seemed to lead to
the next apartment. It was a very tick-
lish thing indeed to open that door.

Before he could at all make up hisI
mind to do so, he tried to peep through
the key-hole of it, but, unfortunately,
there was on the other side a piece of
pendant brass that blocked it up, so he
saw nothing.
Delay, though, to him now was some-
thing worse than danger-it might be
fatal; so with a feeling almost of desper-
ation, he turned the handle of the door
and opened it.
It led into a room that was, like the
last one, dimly lighted by a night-lamp
in a niche in the wall.
'.She is fond of light,' thought Blod-
get.
There was a door in the side wall of
this room, and that door was a littleway
open.
Through it Blodget could see the bed-
curtain.
The room in which she was, constitu-
ted the dressing-room to the bed-room
further on.
Blodget, with eyes like a hyena, cast
a glance round the room. A silk dress
was upon a couch, and on the dressing-
table were various articles of female ap-
parel and jewelry
He approached, on tip-toe, the door
of the bedchamber, and listened most in-
tently.
The sound of one breathing rather
heavily in sleep, came upon his ears.
' She sleeps,' mattered Blodget, ' and
my task is consequently all the easier
of performance. Yes, she sleeps, and
soundly too.'
He now took from his pocket a gag
made of cork and string, and so con-
structed that if once fixed in any one's
mouth it would be out of the question
for them to utter an articulate sound.
This, with a silk handkerchief, which

OF SAN F]

RANCISOO.                         123
lie intended to fix around the head and
face of his prisoner, were the implements
with which he hoped to capture Inez,
and by the aid of which so to terrify her
that he might get away in safety with
her.
' Now for it,' he said.
He took another step towards the
door of the bedchamber, and then he
hesitated.
'A good thought,' he muttered. 'I
will put out both the lights, and then no
curious eye will see me emerge from the
window with my prize.'
He crept back and blew out each of
the little oil lamps that were in the sep
crate rooms.
All was darkness then ; but it was evi-
dent there was another lamp in the ac-
tual bedchamber itself.
It was convenient for Blodget that
there should be, at all events for a brief
space, a light there.
'Now courage and impudence assist
me,' he muttered.
As he spoke he on tiptoe glided into
the bedchamber in which he would have
wagered his life that Inez now slept.
The difficulty, though, he thought was
really an truly at an end, when he, as he
fancied, found himself so far successful as
to be actually in the sleeping chamber of
the young lady.
No wonder that even he, accustomed
as he was to all sorts of escapades and
strange eventful proceedings, felt a little
affected at his own tenierity when he set
foot within the sacred precincts of that
chamber.
The idea of what monteagle would
think and say when he heard of this evi-
dence of unexampled audacity came
across the mind of the unscrupulous il-
lian, and for a moment he hesitated.


MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

It struck him that, after all, such an would be out.# the question, was Blod
_outrage was of so diabolical and daring get's idea.
a character, that it would be difficult to Indeed, he had prepared himself with
say what might be the result of it.  the means, as will be recollected, of com
But it was not for long that such a pletely enveloping the head of his priso-
man as Blodget ever hesitated about the ner, so that if any attempted alarm was
completion of an act of atrocity, or bold- tried, the sound of it would not penetrate
ness or baseness.                     far enough to be successful in reaching
'Let him take it how he may,' thought the inmates of the house.
Blodget, 'I'll carry out my designs; and if  It was a very delicate and ticklish
danger should come to Inez in the carry- job, though, so suddenly to envelope the
ing it out, that is her own fault.'   head and face of a sleeping person in a
He listened intently.               silken bandage as to prevent them from
The regular breathing of some one in uttering a single cry until the operation
a deep sleep still came upon his ears.  was complete.
Now the chief difficulty was to get   But that was just what had to be done,
away with his captive without noise, and and so he did not shrink from it.
there was but one way of doing that.    He only waited a few moments long-
It was so to terrify Inez, that for her er, in order that his eyes might be accus-
life's sake and that of her father she tomed to the very dim light that found
would obey the directions he might give its way into the chamber.
her..                                   During those few  moments, too, he
But, then, upon the first impulse of turned his head aside to listen if the
finding some one in the room, he consid- whole attention of his faculty of hearing
ered that she might utter some cry that could detect the sound of any one stir-
to him, would be full of danger ; and to ring in the mansion ; but all was as still
guard against that was the first step he and silent as the tomb.
took.         'Now for it,' said he to himself.
There came through the window of      In a half-crouching posture he ap-
the sleeping chamber a faint light; which proached the bed.
just enabled him, after a few minutes, If what he was about to do was to be
when his eyes had got accustomed to it, done at all, it was only by the very ex-
to look about him, and .see the outlines cess of boldness in the attempt to do it.
of one object from, another.            When he reached the side of the bed,
To be sure, these outlines were but he rose to his full height, and slipping
dim ones, but still they served to enable adroitly his left arm right under the
him to avoid encountering any piece of head of the sleeper, he in one moment
furniture, and so making noise enough lifted it from the pillow, and with his
to awaken his Victim from the sound right hand he placed the silken envelope
sleep she was in.                     over the head and face, and drew it close
To tie a silk handkerchief in .such a round the neck.
manner around her mouth, and then an-   ' Utter one sound of alarm,' he said in
other over her head, so that the possibili- a low, clear voice close to the ear of the
ty of uttering anything but a faint sound bewildered occupant of the bed, ' and if

12-

O

is your last upon earth. Be quiet and
submissive, and no sort of harm is inten-
ded you. On the contrary, everything
possible will be done to render your situ-
ation as agreeable as possible, and you'll
be treated with delicacy and with every
consideration.'
A gasping sort of a sob was the only
reply.
' Hush!' said Blodget. 'Your fate is
in your own hands. I am compelled for
my own sake to remove you from the
mansion ; but you will be treated with
all the respect and all the consideration
becoming your sex and rank, unless you
by your own conduct, force an opposite
condition of things.'
Some muffled sounds, that might be
considered to mean anything, came from
beneath the covering of silk.
' Am I to comprehend,' said Blodget,
'that your own good sense enables you
to see the necessity of submitting to cir-
cumstances that are beyond your con-
trol entirely ?'
A something was said ; or attempted
to be said.
'Let me assure you,' added he, 'that
I am well aware of the love your father
has for you, and that he will spare no
means to liberate you from me. It would
be quite an insult to your understanding
to attempt to deceive you for one mo-
ment with regard to the object of thus
making you a prisoner. It is simply in
order to get money from him who loves
you beyond all the world beside. Do
you hear me ?'
'Yes.'
The tone in which the yes was spoken
was very consolatory' to Blodget, for it
let him think that Inez saw the inutility
of attempting any resistance to him.
'You are reasonable, I feel,' he said,

sand I can assure you upon my word,
lightly as you may think of that word,
that where I am trusted I know how to
behave myself with honor. The readi-
ness with which you succumb to circum-
stances that now surround you will have
the greatest effect in inducing me to
make this as agreeable to you as possi-
sible. Do you comprehend me?$'
' Yes.'
'Will you, then,' he said, ' quietly
come with me to a place of safety away
from here?'
'I will.'
'You will?'
' Yes.'
Then I have to compliment you upon
your conduct in this affair, and I know
that by saying that for your sake I will
not contrive aught against the life of him
who loves you, I shall be bestowing upon
you the greatest recompense that's in my
power.'.
' Yes.'
'Then we are equal. Allow me to
hope that you will arise and follow me.
Here are various articles of clothing
about the room. You have the use of
your hands, and if I hand the things to
you, one by one, will you then put them
on?'
'Yes.'
' I am very sorry to place you in such
a position as this-very sorry indeed.'
Blodget was so pleased at the compli-
ance of Inez with all his plans, that he
really felt a kindness for her, and he was
determined, therefore, to behave to her
with all the delicacy that the transaction
could possibly enable him to practice.
He caught up various articles of female
apparel, and with his back towards the
bed.
'Be as quick as you can,' he said, ' for

OF SAN FRANCISCO,

125


MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

the fact is that I am in danger here,
- though you are in none.'
'Yes, yes,' said the voice.
'Upon my-life, she must be terribly
frightened to give way to me in this man-
ner.'
One by one he kept handing articles
of clothing, and they were put on, till at
last he said-
'I should think you are ready to leave
the house now, along with me, are you
not V
'I am so.'
' Then follow me, if you please ; but
let me again assure you before I go that
I am only going to make a kind of hos-
tage of you, and that as soon as I have
you in safety I will send to your father
and let him know ; and upon his prom-
ise not to molest me for the future, I will
release you.'
' Yes.'
'Y6u are quite content with that ar-
rangement, then, may I hope ?' said Blod-
get.
' Oh, yes, quite.'
'Then come on at once, if you please.'
Inez felt that resistance would be use-
less, and would probably put in peril the
life of her father, without availing to
save her. She, therefore, quietly yielded
to circumstances, knowing that her fath-
or would cheerfully pay any ransom to
rescue her.
As soon as Inez was dressed, Blodget
led her to the window, and giving a low
whistle was quickly joined by his con-
federates. By their aid Inez was swiftly
and noiselessly conveyed from the house,
carried into the adjacent shrubbery,
and placed upon a horse, stolen, like
those on which the robbers were -now
mounted, from a neighboring~ corral.
The whole party immediately dashed

off at full speed, and never once halted
until they arrived at a solitary rancho,
some eight or nine miles distant from
the home of Inez.
Monteagle, meanwhile, had started at
full gallop for the Mission, in order to
frustrate this villainous plot, but just as
he was turning' the sharp angle at the
turnpike road, his horse stumbled, and
Monteagle was violently thrown over the
animal's head. He remained insensible
in the road, just where he ' had fallen,
until daylight, when he was discovered
and hospitably cared for by the inmates
of a neighboring cottage.
CHAPTER XIII.
A DESPERATE BURGLARY.
LEAVING Inez in charge of some of
his trustiest confreres, Blodget hastened
to the city, to disarm suspicion as well
as to attend to an important robbery
which he had already planned.
A previous arrangement with some of
the principal members of the gang had
assured Blodget that he should find plen-
ty of aid in carrying out his views on
that particular evening.        .
It was two o'clock as Blodget reached
the door of the house that was connected
with the gang, and a drizzly rain was be-
ginning to fall which he saw and felt
with pleasure, for he knew that it would
materially aid him in his plans, as it would
tend to clear the streets of stragglers, as
well as to muffle any sounds that might
otherwise betray the presence of himself
and his companions.
' All is well,' he said. ' This is my old
good luck. Who knows but I-may yet
do a good stroke of business.'

126

Blodget was soon in the old house
along with some half dozen of the most
desperate and knowing thieves in San
Francisco.
A dim light burned in the place, which
was only just sufficient to let them see
each other's faces.
The falling of the rain upon one of the
windows was the only sound that the
night brought forth.
' All's right,' said one of them. 'Here's
Blodget.
' Yes,' said another, ' we shall now no
doubt have a job to do.'
' Yes, my lads,' said Blodget, assuming
an air of reckless jocularity, which he
often thought proper to put on-'yes,
my lads, you will have a little job to do,
and it is one that you will like too.'
'Bravo !--bravol'
' You know me, and that it is not likely
I should send you on a profitless expedi-
tion; but there are a few little arrange-
ments to make before we start.'
'Name them.' -
'I will. They relate, in the first place,
to who is to have the command of these
little expeditions?'
'Oh, you, of course.'
'Is that then thoroughly understood
and agreed ?'
'Yes, yes.'
'Very well, then. The next point is as
regards the division of the spoil.'
'Yes, that should be well understood.'
' It must be well understood or I am off
to find some others to help me in the
matter. I have thought over my terms,
and I do not, I assure you, intend to
flinch from them.'
'What are they I'
'Listen, then. Let all the plunder be
fairly divided into two parts, I'will then
take one part to myself and my friend,

Kay, and you can divide the other among
you in equal shares.'
The thieves looked rather blank at this
proposition, and Blodget seeing that,
added -
'Well, if you don't like that you have
but to say so, and our bargain is at an
end ; but if I get all the information, and
put up a robbery in the safe and quiet
way that I can do it, I think myself en-
titled to the share I speak of, and I will
have it too.'
'Be it so, then,' said the spokesman of
the party, 'I agree, and I'n sure I can
say the same for my friends here. We
all agree to it.'
The others seconded the words of their
spokesman, so that Blodget found he had
made a pretty good bargain with the
thieves, and he set to work arranging the
robbery with all the tact and all the in-
genuity he could bring to bear upon such
an enterprise.
When such an accomplished hand as
Blodget took so much trouble, the re-
suilt was all but certain.
'Meet me, all of you,' he said, 'in half
an hour's time by the corner of Jackson-
and Commercial-streets, and I will take
you to the place. There will be no diffi-
culty at all about it if you take care to
comprehend what I wish each of you to
do, and take care to do it as promptly as
you possibly can.'
' Trust us for that,' said one. 'We
know we can depend upon you, so you
have only to say what you wish and you
will soon see it accomplished.'
With this understanding, then, Blod-
get, left them to proceed to a junk store
which he knew was always open, to a
particular knock, at any hour of the
night.
There Blodget bought a complete set
of skeleton keys, besides such other little

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

127


128               MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

implements used in the art or profession
of housebreaking, and concerning which
the people of the shop asked him no
questions.
Thus provided, then, he took his way
to the corner fixed on, there to wait the
arrival of his confederates.
He had not to wait long.
In the course of two or three minutes
the four men that he had deputed there
to wait him were upon the spot.
'You are punctual,' said Blodget.
'We ought to be.'
'How it rains,' said one.
'Yes; but that-is all the better for us,
you know,' said Blodget.
'It is indeed.' '
' I say,' said another,' there is a watch-
man coming, and holding his hand be-
fore his lantern so as to get a good look
at us.'
'Confound him!'
' Step aside,' said Blodget, ' I will con-
front him.'
A watchman who happened to be
wakeful had chanced to see them all
meet, at the corner, and had hurried to-
wards them, expecting that they were af-
ter no good.
' Hilloa - hi.loa4' he said.  ' Come
now, what do here at this time of night!'
' What's that to you I' said Blodget.
'What's that to me?'
'Yes.'
I Why, don't you see who I am?'
' Yes, that's seen in a moment; you
are a troublesome fool, but I don't know
why I should be bothered with you.'
' Curse me, then, if I don't lock you
up. Come along, will you? Don't re-
sist, now. Come along.'
Blodget snatched the lantern from the
hand of the watchman, and with oneL

blow of it on the top of his head not
only smashed the lantern but nearly stun-
ned its owner, who lay sprawling on the
ground, and calling out murder.
'Jump on him!1' said Blodget.
'Take his lantern' said one of the
thieves, ' and his rattle.'
' Ah, his rattle,' said Blodget, as he
suddenly stood upon the fallen watch-
man, and nearly squeezed the life out of
him. 'I have it, and now come on. It
seems to me as if he could not very well
move now.'
This was the fact. The brutal assault
that had been committed on the un-
fortunate watchman had really for a time
deprived him of all power of speech or
movement, and Blodget and his gang
'wont on with perfect ease and compo-
sure.
'This way,' said Blodget, as he crossed
the road to the back of some low stores.
'This way.'
*Hilloa!' said another watchman, 'did
'I hear a row?'
' Yes,' said Blodget, as he struck him
such a blow in the face with the butt of
a revolver he had in hand that he fell
like a corpse.
' He's quieted,' said Blodget.
The four thieves really looked at each
other with some alarm, and one of them
said-
.' You have a *good kind of way of
quieting people, Mr. Bloget, I rather
think.'
'Yes. But don't call me Mr. Blodget ;
call me Captain, if you please ; but if
you use my name it may reach ears that
it is not intended for.'
' That's right, Mr. --, Captain I
I mean. Are we near the place, though?'
'Yes close to it.'

I

'Ah, what is thatI'
The sharp whistle of a watchman broke
upon the stillness of the night air.
'This way-this way,' said Blodget.
'Let us hide for a moment or two.
The five got under a doorway, and
there they hid and let no less than four
watchmen run past them in the direction
of the sound of the whistle.
No more of the guardians of the night
seemed to be coming that way, so that
Blodget came forth from the hiding
place with his friends and went quietly
on.
All was dark, the guests had departed,
and the street in which the lady resided
was restored to its usual equanimity for
the night.
There was not the least appearance of
any light in any of the windows in the
front of the house; but Blodget hardly
supposed that such a residence would be
left entirely without light in any of the
rooms, so be fully expected that some of
the back windows would no doubt show
symptoms of the apartments being in
some degree illuminated.
' Halt ! This is the house,' he said.
'All right, captain.'
'Now attend to me all of you, and you
will know what you have to do- I will
manage to open the door, and then you
will remain just within it on the watch.'
'Yes, captain.'
' You will take charge of the pantry,
which I will point out to you, and possess
yourself of all the portable plate.'
'I'll do it, captain.'
'You, then, will ransack the rooms on
the first floor.'
' A's right.'
' And you will follow me.'
'I'll do it, captain.  Now we -know

what we have all got to do, and can do
it well.'
'You can if you will ; and remember
that we all assemble here in the hall
again as soon as possible, and that if the
one who is to keep guard at the door
sees proper to give an alarm, it shall be.
with a whistle such as no doubt in the
night time will be distinctly heard by all
of you.'
'I have a whistle in my pocket,' said
the fellow, ' that I'll warrant you will all
hear.'
' Then that is settled ; so now let us
go to work.'
Blodget himself commenced the at-
tack upon the door, and he did so with
amazing tact.
With one of the picklocks he had in
his possession he easily turned the lock
of the door, and then he found that he
was impeded by a couple of bolts and a
chain.
To most persons these would have
been rather insurmountable obstructions,
but to him they only required a little
time and skill and perseverance to over-
come them.
With a fine and exquisitely tempered
saw, which was so thin that he got it be-
tween the door and the joist, he managed
to saw them both in two in a very short
space of time.
The door was now only fastened by
the chain.
' Is it done now ?' asked one of the
thieves.
'Not yet.'
'Soon I'
'Yes. Why do you ask?' said Blod-
get.
' I think-I may be mistaken though
-but I think some one looked out at

A          E
OF SAN FRANCISC 0.                129


130             -     MYSTERIES A
one of the windows of the house opposite
rather more earnestly than they ought
to have done.'
' The devil they did.'
' Yes, I think so.'
'A man or a woman ?'
' It is too dark to say.'
'Curses on them, be it whom it may!'
' Amen to that, captain.'
'But you are quite sure you saw some
one, be it man or woman ?'
'Yes, I am.'
'Then go over two of you to the door,
and wait there for a few moments while
I work at this chain..
'And if any one comes out ?'
'Well?'
'What shall we do?'
'Do you ask me what you shall do
while you have the use of your hands?
It won't do to make a noise, so I should
say that the only thing open to you to
do is to throttle any one who should ap-
pear.'
Throttle '
'Yes, and why not ? Pray what busi-
n'ess have the people opposite to inter-
fere in my affairs, Ishould like to know ?'
'Well, certainly-but-but-'
Do you hesitate ?'
'No-no. Don't be in a passion, cap-
tain. If it must be done, why, it is no
use saying anything more about it, and
it just will be done.'
'I should imagine so.'
The two men who had been thus or
dered over the way by Blodget went up-
on their errand ; and although it is true
they had at first rather started at the
idea of throttling somebody who might
be so very interfering and imprudent As
to come from the opposite house, it is yet
difficult to say whether after all, this ad-
mlonition of- Blodget was not very great-

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                  131

AND MISERIES

ly increased by the off-hand manner in
which he proposed to get rid of obstacles
to the progress of the particular little
enterprise upon ,which he was.  -
Curses on it?'1muttered Blodget to
himself, 'it seems as if I were fated to
he thwarted to-night.'
He saw his two companions take up
their station on the opposite door-step,
and then he set to work upon the street'
door chain.
It was rather a peculiar process by
which he Blodget got rid of the obstacle
to his progizs.
Having sawed the bolts and opened
the locks he could just get the street-
door open as far as the slack of the chain
would allow it to go, but although that
was not above a couple of inches in all,
yet it was sufficient for his purpose, as
will be very quickly seen.
He took from his pocket a very pecu-
liar shaped iron instrument, capable of
very great extension as regarded length
by other pieces fitting into it like the
joints of a fishing-rod, only that the sock-
ets were squared, so that they fitted quite
tight and would not turn.
One end of this instrument he fixed
in a link of the chain, and then he
lengthened it about two feel and fitted
a cross piece on the end, so that he had
a very good amount of leverage to work
with.
Blodget gave this instrument about
three rapid turns, and then the iron
chain broke in two or three places and
hang uselessly from the -door in the paa
sage of the house-
'It is done,' he said, 'Come in.'
The two thieves who were still with
him now crept into the hall, and at that
moment Blodget heard a noise opposite.
He who had seen a head project from

an opposite window had not been de-
ceived. A man at the house opposite
had chanced to see the persons on the
door-step, and being a very cunning sort
of individual, instead of giving a noisy
alarm at once, which would have had
the effect of scaring the thieves off, he
thought he would gently slip out, and
run to the nearest policeman and tell
what he had seen.
With this view he had hurriedly dress-
ed himself and slipped down stairs. He
opened the door with the utmost caution,
and then made a dart into the arms of
the men, who were there waiting for him
so quietly and patiently.
This sudden capture of the man from
the opposite house was the noise that
Blodget had heard opposite just as he
had succeeded in removing the last ob-
stacle to getting an entrance to the hall
of the house.
The attack upon the man was so sud-
den, and withal so totally unexpected by
that individual, that, for the moment, he
was too terrified to cry out.
That moment was precious to him, for
before he could recover presence of mind
sufficient to have the least idea of what
best to do, one of the thieves had him
by the throat with such a clutch that he
began to get black in the face.
Blodget ran over from the other side
of the way in another moment.
'Who is it?' he asked.
'Somebody going, no doubt, to give
an alarm,' said the man who had hold of
him.
' Now is that possible V said Blodget.
'It is, captain.'
'Dear me, what interfering people
there are in the world, to be sure. Has
he a cravat on .,
'Yes, captain.'

' That will do.'
Blodget took the unfortunate man's
cravat from his neck, and in another mo-
ment wound it round again so tightly
and tied it in a knot behind, that his
doing more than just slightly breathe
was out of the question.
' Now,' he added, 'one slight tap on
the head just to make him remember
us, and all is well.'
The tap on the head that Blodget so
facetiously called a slight remembrancer
consisted in a severe blow with an iron
jemmy, beneath which the victim fell to
the ground as if he had been strrok
dead.
' Push him into his own passage,' sait
Blodget, 'and then close his door quietly.
It will be quite a pity to disturb the,
no doubt, highly respectable family to
which he belongs.'
This was done, and with so little trou-
ble, too, had the whole affair been ac-
complished that the man was disposed
of, and Blodget was back again to the
house before one would have thought it
possible to do so much.'
' Now, come in all of you,' he said.
'Yes, captain.'
'You did that well, captain.'
' Hush, we will talk about that anoth-
er time, when we have plenty of time to
do so, for we have none now.'
'Yes, captain.'
'You know your seperate directions
now. Here we are in the house, and our
grand object is, of course, to do our
work here and then to get out of it as
quickly as we can.'
'Yes-yes, that's it.'
'A lightly'
One of the thieves-it was the one
whose appointed duty it was to go up
stairs with Blodget- lit a loco foco


132              MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

match, and then as it burned up they all
started, for one of the ,first things they
saw was a servant apparently fast asleep,
but, in reality, dead drunk in a huge
chair.
' Confound the rascal,' said Blodget,
who now would have supposed he was
so near to us ?'
'He sleeps.'
'Are you sure of that?  Is it a cat's
sleep ?'
'No, captain, that is a sound sleep.
'It looks sound.'
He is as drunk as blazes, captain, I
"an see. Ah, he has been at the decan-
ers and bottles after the guests have
gone.'
'No doubt about that,' said Blodget,
with a smile ; ' and I don't mind saying
that it was a part of my calculation
in this little affair, that the servants
would ~be mostly drunk, and so in too
deep a sleep to hear us, or to mind us
if they did hear us.'
' Ab, captain, you know how to act
about it, if any one in the world does.'
'What is to be done with this fel-
low ?' saia one of them.
'Nothing: let him be.. Now furnish
yourselves with lighted tapers, and let us
set to work.'
Each-of the thieves in the course of
another moment had a little piece of
lighted taper in his hand, and it had the
advantage that it could be, by a little
pressure of the finger and thumb, stuck
on any convenient place in an instant.
'Now, quick, all of you,' added Blod-
get, ' and you follow me.'
He spoke to the one whose appointed
duty it was to do so, and then at two
steps at a time Blodget ascended a stair-
caise.

When they got to the first floor land
ing, Blodget and the man who was with
him both stopped, and sitting down on
the stairs, they drew rapidly over their
boots, each of them a pair of thick wor-
sted- socks, so that their footsteps were
really quite inaudible after that.
Neither did they leave any signs of
footmarks any where, which otherwise,
coming out of the wet' street, they might
have done; and any attempt to trace
them beyond the first floor, after they
had put on the socks, would have been
very difficult indeed.
'This a good dodge,' whispered the
thief to Blodget.
' Yes, but still be as quiet as you can.
'I will.'
 'This way. This way.'
The thief was of rather a loquacious
order of men. -Perhaps, after all, he was
a little terrified at the situation in which
he found himself, but certainly he could
not, or would not, obey Blodget's injunc
tions to silence.
Blodget would, under any other cir-
cumstances, have quarrelled with him
for his contumacy, but just then he did
not think proper to do so, as he could
not tell what emergency might arise in
which he might require the best ser-
vices of his companion, with good will
to render them; so did he answer him,
although it was as shortly as he possibly
could, to be at the same time at all con-
sistent with civility.
They made their way up to the second
floor of the house, on which the sleeping
apartments were situated.
On a gilt bracket, fixed about twelve
feet high in the wall of the sort of *or-
ridor which ran the whole length of the
house, Blodget saw a night lamp burn-

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

ing, and by its aid he was able to distin-
guish t he different doors of the sleeping
portion of the house.
The timan who was with him, and who
was nnid Ben, saw Blodget looking
about liiii.
' Don'tyou know the room ?' he said.
Yes-oh, yes; all's right."
'Well, t hat's a comfort. Do you know,
captain, that it ain't pleasant to be so far
off in the street ?'
' Vhy so I'
'Because, if there should be a row,
how are we to get off ?'
'Pslhaw! I never contemplate anything
of the sort.'
Oh, you don't ?'
'No ; and if you will but be a little
cautious and careful in what you say,
we shall do well enough.
' Trust ine for that.'
'Curse you,' thought Blodget to him-
self, ' for a chattering parrot. It is the
last time I will take you with me upon
an expei iion of this sort.'
Blodget carefully now laid hold of the
handle of the bed-room door, and gave
it a quick, sharp turn at once. He knew
that that was the best way to prevent it
from making any rattling or squeaking
sound.
The door remained fast.
Blodget turned the handle again to its
proper position, and stood quiet for a mo-
ment.
It was quite clear that the bed-room
door was fast on the inside in some way,
and if it was a night bolt, the difficulty
of getting rid of such an obstruction
was rather serious.
That is to say, it was serious as re-
garded time, for he was well prepared
with, any means for getting over such an

133

'obstacle, if he had but the time given
him to do it in.
'Step this way,' he whispered to the
man who was with him.
'Yes-yes.'
'Blodget led him to the top of the
stair ase, and then added-
' You will stay here till I come to you
again-keep your eyes and your care
open. There is a night-bolt to the room
door, and I have the job of cutting my
way to it. It will take me five minutes.'
'Yes-yes.'
'Be vigilant and quiet.
'I will, Captain.'
'And don't stir from this spot.'
' Trust me for that. I will sit down
on the top stair here.'
Not a sound came from whoever slept
in that apartment, and Blodget congrat-
ulated himself upon having got so far
without his giving the smallest possible
alarm.
Passing his arm through the little hole
in the door, now, he carefully lifted the
night-bolt, and the door was, in a mo-
ment, open.
'It is done,' thought he.
As he now paused for a moment he
took a half mask of black crape from his
pocket and put it over his face, so that
he was effectually disguised and then he
stepped back to the stair head where ho
had left his assistant, Ben.
Ben was still sitting on the topmost
stair, and leaning forward to catch aiy
sounds that might come from the lower
part of the mansion.
Blodget placed his hand upon Ben's
shoulder, and whispered in his ear the
one word-
'Now!'
Ben started, and turning his head, the

''


134              MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

drat thing he saw was the black mask,'s
and not expecting it he gave such a start
9f surprise and terror that he was on hiss
feet in a moment.
No doubt he thought his infernal
majesty had all of a sudden found him
out,
' Murder !' he said.  ' Oh, Lord ;
no !'  '
'Silence, idiot !' muttered Blodget, as
he placed his hand over Ben's mouth and
cautioned him to quietness.
The sudden consternation of Ben all
evaporated before the sounds of Blodget's
voice.
' You cursed fool,' said Blodget in his
ear, ' what do you mean by uttering an
exclamation of that sort ?'
'I-I didn't know'
'You didn't know ?'
'No, captain ; I think I was in a sort,
of a brown study, you see, and so I-'
'Silence!1'
'Yes, captain.'
'Who is there!?' said a voice from the
room, 'who is there ?'
' Hush,' said Blodget as he clutched
the arm of Ben, and they both stood like
statues.
Ben shook in every limb.
' Did you speak ?' said the voice
again.      -
'Be still,' said Blodget. ' Don't move,
on your life, Ben.'
'I won't. Oh-oh ! It's all---'
'What ?'
'Up with us.'
'No, fool, it is not if you keep yourself
quiet.'
'I will.
Blodget ran back to' the door in a
moment, and he drew it close shut.
'I'm  sure I heard a voice,' said the

same person. ' Kitty--Kitty,- I say.
The wench is fast asleep.    Kitty, I
say.
' Yes, madam,' said a sleepy voice, and
a door opened from the lady's room intc
another smaller one that adjoined it, and
a young girl, in her night dress, appear.
ed.
' Did you hear anything?'
'Yes, ma'm.'
'What?'
'You call me, ma'm.'
'Tut-tut ! I don't mean that; but
did you hear anything else before I call-
ed you?'
'No, ma'm.'
'Well, I thought I did.'
'You was a dreaming, ma'm, I sup-
pose.'
'I suppose I was. See if the night-
bolt is all right, Kitty, before you go to-
bed again.'
'Yes, ma'm.'
' I feel so nervous to-night ; I don't
know why.'
Blodget felt there was danger now
unless he could adroitly put the night-
bolt in its place again. The difficulty
to do so without being seen, and in a
hurry, too, without making any noise,
was very great, but if any man living
could do that, that man was Blodget.
Kitty, fortunately for him, was half
asleep, and she shuffled along the floor
in such an odd, devious kind of way,
with her eyes scarcely open enough to
see at all where she was going, that she
gave Blodget every chance.
It happened, too, that as she went she
completely obstructed the lady's view of
the door.
Blodget put his hand in the little ori-
fice he had cut in the panel, and repho-
ed the night-bolt.

He was only just in time.
' Is it all right ?' said the lady.
Oh, yes, ma'm.'
'You are sure ?'
' Yes, ma'm.'
'Then it could not have been any.
thing surely; I was dreaming. But it
is no matter, you can go to bed again
Kitty. Dear me, what are you about
now ?'
Kitty had, in her half sleepy state, ran
against the foot of the bed and shaken it
well.
'Eh?   Oh, ma'm, I beg your pardon,
I think I am a little drowsy, you see,
ma'm.'
' A little drowsy indeed ! Plague take
the girl, she is dead asleep. Go to bed
directly.'
'Yes, ma'm.'
Kitty did manage to steer herself now
clear of the various articles of furniture
in her mistress's room, and to pass
through the door that led to her own,
and in another moment she was again
fast asleep.
'Dear me,' said the lady, ' I do feel ner-
vous to night, to be sure, and I don't know
why.'
Ting-ting--ting! went the little bell
of her repeater watch as she pressed the
spring of it.
' Three o'clock,' she said. ' Well, I'd
better try to go to sleep, I suppose, while
I can.'
She did not utter another word, and
in a few moments the most deathlikesi-
lence was in the room again.
Blodget put his hand in the little cir-
cular hole in the door, and drew up the
bolt once more.
' Curses upon all this delay,' he said to
himself, ' we shall have the daylight upon
us soon.'

This was indeed so, as another hour
would without doubt bring the dawn, and
then the situation of Blodget and his
companions in iniquity would be rather
perilous.
There were many other circumstances
t which rendered it desirable to be quick
, about the affair.
t In the first place the collision with the
watch had no doubt been, by that time,
1 communicated, and no doubt the police
were active.
Then again, as the man in the house
over the way had after all only been
stunned, there was no saying when he
might sufficiently recover to give an al-
arm.
From all these reasons Blodget felt the
necessity of bringing the job to a speedy
end, and with such a determination he
then crept very quietly into the lady'sbed-
room.
In the dim light of the bed-chamber,
he looked like some evil spirit as he stood
casting a broad shadow on the bed and
its occupant.
For a moment, he considered what to
do, and then he stepped up to the bedside
and said :-
'Give any alarm and you die-be still
and you live ! Be quiet-quite quiet,
for your life's sake,'
The terrified woman opened her eyes
and uttered a faint cry.
'Yes, ma'm,' said Kitty from the next
room.
'Curse you!' cried Blodget.
He took a revolver from his pocket,
and held it to her head, saying in a calm
tone:-
'If you wish to save your life you will
be quiet. It is your jewels, plate, and
money I come for, not your life, but if
you place it as an obstacle in the way,

OF SAN FRANCISCO.              13 5


MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

-  1-36

that obstacle muake removed. You un- get took her by the arms, lifted her out
derstand me.                         of the bed, and put her on the floor. He
A robber ?'                       then went to the door and cried, in a low
'Yes'                              tone-
'A house-breaker?'                   '    -Ben '
'Just so.'                           'I'm coming,, said Ben, as he entered
'Yes, ma'm,' said Kitty, blustering in- the room.
to the room with her eyes half shut as be-  'Keep watch over this lady, Ben.'
fore. 'Did you call me?'                Oh, yes.
'Yes,' said he, stepping up to her, rnd  'And if she tries to get away, or if
placing his hand right over her mouth ; she gives alarm, you will be so good as
and then in her ear he said-         to cut her throat, Ben.'
'Kitty, if you speak one word or ut-  'Oh, yes.'
ter one scream, or make the least noise,  'And don't make a bungling job of it
Iwill cut your throat from ear to ear this while you are about it. If you have to
mm .do it all, do it with humanity-that is
Kitty stopped short, and looked as if to say, do it at once and effectually.'
she had been suddenly turned to stone.  - Oh; yes ; trust me for. that, captain'
Jlodget placed her in a chair, and catch-  The lady was now really alarmed.
lng up a handkerchief, he tied it in her  Ben took from  his pocket a large
mouth, and round the back of her head, clasped knife, the blade of which he
and soon to the back of her chair, like a opened in a ferocious kind of way with
bit.                                 his teeth, and with that in his hand, he
Now be quiet,' he said.           kept an eye upon her.
Kitty sat profoundly still; indeed, her  Blodget now  sprang upon the bed,
faculties had received such a shock that and tearing down some of the hangings
it would be some time before she'd recov- from the back part of it, he saw a small
er again.                            square door in the wall. It was not fast-
The lady sat up in bed.            ened.
e' You wretch! What on earth do you    No doubt the secrecy of the position
want?                                of that receptacle for valuables was much
'Plate-jewels-money.'              more relied upon by the lady than any
'There is my purse on the dressing- sort of lock or fastening.
table-the plate is in the pantry down  The fact was, that when once it was
stairs.'                            found out that that -was the hiding
'And in the little secret cupboard at place for the valuable property that
the back of this bed, you know it is, could be put in it, the security was gone.
madam.'                                No lock or bolt could for many mo-
The lady uttered a groan.          ments have added to it in any shape ror
&amp;I will trouble you to get up.'    way.
'Oh, no-no !'                        Blodget saw at once when he pulled
'But I say, oh, yes-yes. Now if you open the door that he had received cor-
please.                              rect information.  Immediately within
Without any further ceremony, Blod- the little square door were some shelves

built in the thickness of the wall, and
upon them a heap of property of a valu-
able and portable nature.
Bracelets-rings-necklaces-watch-
es-spoons-gold quartz-and jewellery
of all descriptions, met the gaze of the
robber as he glanced upon the shelves.
' All right,' said he.
The lady was a bold woman, and she
had kept her eye upon Blodget, and
when she heard him say ' All's right,'
the thought that he had discovered all
her most valuable property drove her to
an act of defiance.
' Thieves l' she said, and she raised a
loud scream.
'Kill her !' said Blodget.
Ben had sprung to his feet, and made
for the door of the room, although he
had his knife in his hand. The fact is,
this fellow wanted the nerve to be a
murderer when any oue resisted at all.
He might have been an assassin, but he
'iad not the courage to engage in a strug-
gle.
'Kill her, I say !' cried Blodget.
'No, no ' said the lady, and springing
to her feet, she with a rush made her
way into the servant's room; and slamm-
ed the door shut in Blodget's face.
'Curses on her ! you have let her es-
cape.'
' I could not help it,' said Ben.
' Here, there is no time to be lost now
-she will rouse the neighborhood. Take
this pillow-case, which I have filled with
the swag. We must be content with it.
I will see to her and be with you in a
moment.'
'Yes-yes, I will go-'
'No further than the head of the
stairs, though.'
'No-no.'
Blodget made a rush at the door of the

137

room into which she had retreated ; but
it was too strong for him, and by great
good fortune there had chanced to be
some very effectual mode of fastening it
on the inside. Blodget heard a lumber-
ing noise in the room, that he could not
make out.
He called aloud,--' No harm is in-
tended you, and I will compromise the
matter with you, if you will be quiet.'
Something rolled upon the floor, and
then hit the door a great knock that
shook it.
' Confound her,' said Blodget, 'I know
what she is doing now. She is piling
the furniture against the door, and that
was the bedstead. I say!'
Blodget heard a window thrown open,
and then a vote calling out,-
'Help !-help !-thieves I-thieves !--
Murder !'
Blodget turned from the door. His
eyes fell upon the young girl who was
tied to the chair, and in a moment he
rushed up to her .and untied her head.
Then shaking her to and fro, he said-.
'Listen to me. Do you hear me?'
'Ye-c-es.'
'Go to that door and call to your inis-
tres that I have gone.'
'Ye-e--es.'
'At once, or I will cut your throat.'
The girl tottered to the door of the
inner room, and called out in a loud
voice,-
'Mistress, they have gone now. They
have gone now. Open the door. It is
only me, Kitty.'
Kitty, in her fright, had done even
more than Blodget had asked ler. The
dread of death had sharpened the wits of
the girl, so that she had seen fully what
was wanted of her, and she was willing
at that moment to think that self-preser-

OF SAN FRANCISCO.


138                  MYSTERIES Al
nation was indeed the very first law of
nature, even if it was taken in its most
extended signification, and involved the
destruction of another.
'That is right,' said Blodget, as the
girl tapped upon the panel of the door
of the inner room, and called to her mis-
tress; 'call her again, or you die!'
'Mistress!'
'Who calls?'
It's me, ma'm!'
'Kitty?'?
'Yes, ma'm !'
How cane you free ?'
'Oh, they have run away, ma'm !'
'Open the front window, then, and
call out for the police at once, do you
hear ?'
'Yes, ma'm !'
'Tell her to open the door,' said
Blodget, ' or mind your throat.'
' Open the door, ma'm !'
' No.'
Implore her to do so.  Say you are
hurt.'
'Oh, I am hurt, ma'm! Do open the
door.'
' Hurt?' said the lady, ' You don't
mean that ?'
Blodget heard from the voice that she
must be just outside the door, or rather,
we may say with more precision, just on
the other side of it. Full of revengeful
thoughts at the idea that she had endan-
gered his safety by her obstinate, and
what we would call heroic, resistance to
be robbed,.he determined on her destruc-
tion.
Placing a revolver within a couple of
inches of the panel of the door, and close
to the side of the face of Kitty, although
at the moment the girl was too confused
to see it, he fired.

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

ND MISERIES

The report was very stunning.
Kitty fell to the floor from fright
with a loud scream.  .
' Hush !' said Blodget, as he held up
his hands, in an attitude of listening.
'Hush !'
All was still.
A deep groan came from the inner
room.
'Ha ! ha !' cried Blodget. ' I have hit
her !'          I
'It was at that 'moment that a shrill
whistle sounded through the house, and
Blodget at once recognized it as the alarm
that he had told the man whose duty it
was to stay at the outer door of the
house to give in case of danger.
'It is all over,' said Blodget, 'and it
will be a close touch now as regards es-
cape.'
He made his way to the door of the
room, and was out in the corridor in a
moment.
' Ben? Ben?'
' Here.I am, captain. Oh, Lord 1'
'What's the matter?'
'Nothing-only-only--..
' Only what, idiot?'
' I thought I heard somebody in trou-
ble.'
' How so ?'
' A pistol shot, captain, from your
hands, I take it, is reason enough for
that.'
' No, it is not. When you hear a pis-
tol-shot from me again do not take it in-
to your head that somebody is in trou-
ble.'
'No?'
' Certainly not; but you may pretty
safely conclude that somebody's troubles
are over.'
' Oh, Lord !'

'Come away at once now-there is
no time to lose. Take care of the bun-
dle. ' Have you it ?'
'All safe.'
'Follow me then.'
Blodget ran down stairs as quickly as
he could, and by the time he got to the
hall he found that the whole four of the
thieves he had brought with him had as-
sembled there, and were looking at each
other by their little pieces of lighted ta-
per with something like consternation.
' What is the matter?' said Blodget.
'Oh, captain, it's all up.'
'What is all up ?'
'All up with us.  There is a force in
the street of police. They don't seem to
know which house it is, but they are on
the look-out about something being amiss
at one or other of the houses on this side
of the way. .
' Humph! What do you mean by a
force?'%
'About a dozen of them.'
'Blodget bit his lips.
'Yes, and They are close outside too.'
'No?'
'Yes they are.'
'I will satisfy myself. If it be only the
ordinary watch I don't think a couple of
dozen of them ought to stop us from pro-
ceeding, and I will not permit them doing
so either; but if they are some of these
cursed Vigilance fellows, it is another af-
f'air.'
Blodget acted promptly. Nobody cer-
tainly could accuse him of want of cour-
age or decision. He knew that the only
way of discovering who were without
was to take a good look himself ; so, to
the consternation and surprise of his
comrades, he opened the street door and
coolly looked out into the street.
A sudden rush was made at the door

by a couple of men, and Blodget soon
saw ten or twelve others not far off.
' Hold hard there, hoss,' said one of
them. 'Don't shut that door again,
my fine fellow, if you please.'
' Ah, indeed!' said Blodget, as he
closed the door ; but he was not quite
quick enough, for a stick that one of the
officers had with him had been pushed
through the opening, and prevented the
door from closing.
' Ha, ha ! it won't do,' cried the of-
ficer.
Blodget laid hold of the stick and
called upon the others to do so. By
their united force they pulled it out of
the officer's hand, half dislocating his
wrist as he did so, for he had tied it with
a strip of dry hide to his arm.
The door was closed in another min-
ute, but it was only held by the lock,
for Blodget had cut the bolts and had
broken the chain, so that his situation
with his four companions was anything
but a very agreeable one.
'Oh!' said Ben, 'I do begin to think
as we have all dropped in for it at last.'
'Not at all,' said Blodget.
- Not at all, captain ? Why how the
deuce are we to get out of this mess?'
' I don't call it a mess. There are
two ways out of a house ; one at the
street door, and the other at the roof.
Follow me.'
' What, upstairs again?'
'Yes, to be sure. Remember you are
under my orders, and you may as well
remember why, too.'
' Why ?'
'Yes, why. Was it not because I
knew more than you did, and could so
take the command with more advantage
to you as well as to myself ? Come on I

139


140

MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

I will yet see you all safe out of this affair,
you may depend upon it.'
They accordingly proceeded up stairs,
where as Blodget anticipated, they found
a scuttle affording an exit to the roof-
through. this they escaped, and scamper-
ing over the flat roofs of the adjacent
houses, got safely off with their blood-
bought booty.
CHAPTER XIV.
WE must now retrace our steps in or-
der 'to introduce a different phase of life
in the Golden City.
Among the many hundreds of passen-
gers who landed one' drizzly day from
one-of the Panama steamers, was a young
and very handsome female.
Her personal attractions had excited
the attention and admiration of many of
the male 'passengers, who would fain
have improved the chance of becoming
more intiate with her, had they not
been kept aloof by the distant manners
of a gentleman, under whose protection
she appeared to be, and, perhaps, even
more by the young girl's reserved ways
and apparently sad expression of counte-
nance.
- Who this lady was will appear in the
course of our tale. Her companion call-
ed her Fanny--but whether she was his
wife or not, was unknown to the rest of
the passengers.
About a fortnight after Fanny arrived
in San Francisco she rose from her slum-
bers, broken by unquiet visions, with pale
and gloomy looks, for she had not yet
decided upon the course she would adopt
fn her present extremity, and her sombre
countenance and spiritless manners at-
tracted the notice of her landlady.

' Mr. Ed wards has gone to Sacramento,
I hear,' said she, as she placed the break-
fast equipage upon the table.
'Yes.' replied Fanny, coldly.
'He did not say anything to me about
the rent,' observed the woman, in a doubt-
ful and hesitating tone. 'He engaged
the apartments, you know ; but if you
pay the rent when it is due, of course it
is all the same.'
'You have always received your rent
from me, Mrs. Smith,' returned Fanny,
somewhat haughtily, 'and as long as I
occupy your apartments I shall continue
to pay for them. I hope-- you do not
doubt my ability to do so ?'
'Oh, no,' said her landlady. 'Only as
Mr. Edwards engaged the apartments,
and has now left without saying anything
about the matter, I did not know how
matters might be ; but I meant no of-
fence, I am sure.'
- Mrs. Smith whisked herself out of the
room, and Fanny was again alone to con-
template the dread realities of her posi-
tion. Still undecided, still reluctant ,to
adopt either of the alternatives which
she had canvassed over, but keenly alive
to the necessity of a speedy decision, she
yet sought to avert the crisis, if only for,
a few days; and having made a bundle
of a silk dress and a handsome shawl
which Edwards had given her, she left
the house to obtain the means of liquid-j
eating the week's rent, that would be due
on the ensuing day.
'Mrs. Edwards,' said a female voice be-
hind her, as she stood before the window
of a pawnbroker's shop, unable to sum-
mon courage toenter; and turning round
she beheld a young girl, stylishly dressed,
and possessed of considerable pretensions
to beauty, whom she instantly recognised
as a -fellow-lodger with whom she had

I

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

once or twice exchanged civilities when
they had met upon the stairs or in the
passage.
'I have renounced that name forever,
Miss Jessop,' said she ' and would forget
all the associations belonging to it.'
'Ah, heard that Mr. Edwards had
gone to Sacramento,' observed Miss Jes-
sop.
'You knew it, then, before I did,' re-
turned Fanny, with a slight bitterness of
accent.
'Indeed !' rejoined Miss Tessop. 'But
do not think of going to the pawnbro-
ker's, for I am sure that is where you are
going.-'
'Who told you that I was going to the
pawnbroker's,' inquired Fanny, colouring,
and speaking in a tone of mingled vexa-
tion and surprise.
'Nay, do not be angry !' said Miss Jes-
sop, whose manner was kind and concil-
iating. ' I was sure of it, as soon as I
saw you, and you cannot deny it; but do
not look vexed because I have penetra-
ted your intentions. I see that you
want a friend, and it was because I felt
convinced that you were going into the
shop that I accosted you.'
'I do indeed want a friend, Miss Jes-
sop,' returned Fanny, sighing, 'I never
felt the want of one so much as at this
moment.'
' Then come home, if you have no
where else to go to, and we will have a
little chat together,' said Miss Jessop, in
a very friendly tone. ' I am older than
you in years, and still older in experience,
for all that you now see dimly louring
upon the horizan, I have long ago passed
through.'
Fanny was in that frame of mind which
prompts the seeker after guidance or
consolation to be communicative and to

141

give confidence wherever friendship is
proffered, and she walked home with
Miss Jessop, whom she invited into her
own sitting-room.
'You are very comfortable here,' said
the young lady, as she glanced round
the apartment. 'I hope you do not
think of leaving?'
'I have thought of many things, but
as yet have been able to decide upon noth-
ing,' returned Fanny, with a faint smile.
'And yet you were about to do the
most foolish thing imaginable, if I had
not prevented you,' observed Mis Jessop.
'For whatever course you decide upon,
it would be foolish to make away with
your best clothes, and the money you
raised by so doing would only serve to
avert for a few days the decision that you
would have to come to at last. For in-
stance, if you decide upon returning home
to your friends, where would be the use
of delaying your return until you had
eat up all your clothes Again if you
determined upon receiving the visits of
any other gentleman, would it not be
foolish to delay accepting of his propo-
sals until you were penniless? If you
will take the advice of one who has been
in the same position, you will do at once,
whatever you decide upon doing, for,
however desperate your position may be,
procrastination will only make it worse.'
Fanny felt the force of her new friend's
reasoning, and after reflecting upon it
for a moment, frankly disclosed her posi-
tion, signifying the repugnance which
she felt to returning home.
' You see that I understand your posi-
tion as well as if I had been acquainted
with it,' said Miss Jessop, with a smile.
If you will go out with me this evening
I will introduce you to a banker who is
sure to be delighted with you. Ie is


142               MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

very liberal, and I know he admires your
dark style of beauty above all othe-s.'
Fanny's curiosity and vanity were
both excited by this flattering description,
and as reflection had confirmed her in
her determination not to return home,
little persuasion was needed to induce
her to assent to her new friend's proposi-
tion.
Night found Fanny and Miss Jessop
seated in a temple dedicated equally to
Venus and to Bacchus. The former was
surprised by the scene which met her
gaze, and the appearance of the females
who promenaded the saloon, or were
seated by the side or on the knees of gay
gentlemen, enlightened her both as to
the character of the place and that of
her companions, if indeed there had been
in her mind any doub$ as to the latter,
previous to her introduction to thatflow-
ery scene of vice.
'There !-that is the person of whom
I spoke to you,' said Miss Jessop, in a
whisper, as the banker entered the sa-
loon, and as the roue caught the eye of
Fanny's companion, and saw by her side.
a beautiful young female whom he had
never seen before, he advanced towards
the table at which they were seated, and
sat down opposite to them.
'You look blooming to-night,' Miss
Jessop, said he, eyeing Fanny as he
spoke. 'Champaigne, waiter. Who is
your handsome young frieud?'
Fanny blushed at the compliment, and
her companion answered, with a smile,
'A young friend of mine whom I have
promised to introduce to you, Mr. Ed-
wards.'
Fanny and the banker were soon upon
the most friendly terms. He invited the
ladies to take wine with him. Fanny's
reserve vanished by degrees under its in-

fluence, and the compliments of the
banker appealed to her vanity. She was
soon- induced to accompany him to a
house in the neighberhood. Fanny had
committed herself to the tide of destiny,
suffering it to bear her wither it would,
and she entered into the house, of the
character of which her inexperience al-
lowed her to form no conception. But
when they were conducted by an attend-
aut into a bed-chamber, she was recalled
all at once to the nature of her position,
and she blushed deeply; her companion,
however, found means to remove her
scruples, and she left the house, in com-
pany with Miss Jessop, richer indeed in
purse, but bankrupt in honor.
It was near midnight,--some weeks
after Fanny's fatal resolution-the gay
votaries of pleasure were leaving the
Jenny Lind Theatre, some few in equip-
ages, but a greater number on foot ; be-
yond the immediate neighborhood of the
theatre, however, the bustle was little in-
creased, for the bar-rooms, the Arcade,
the El Dorado, the Lafayette, and the
Bella Union, received the human tide
almost as fast as its waves ebbed from
the -portico of the theatre.
One female form alone lingered under
the portico !
She was a lovely dark-eyed girl, rath-
er below the middle height of woman,
and wore a silk dress, faded and stained,
a mantle of the same material, creased
and much worn, and a velvet bonnet
modish in form, but worn and faded, and
adorned with a black feather in the last
stage of decay. Her complexion was
dark, and dissipation and late hours had
not yet banished the last tinge of rose
from her cheeks ; her bright eyes were
shaded by long jetty lashes,.and her,
black hair was glossy as the pinion of

the raven ; her lips seemed formed of
coral by the art of the turner, and her
form was symmetrical and attractive in
the highest degree. A little while be-
fore those dark eyes had beamed with
simulated passion, and those vermeil lips
had been wreathed with the most win-
ning and wanton smiles ; but as the last
hack drove away from the front of the
theatre, the expression of the girl's coun-
enance, which seemed to have been
stamped there as with a searing iron, by
the vivid consciousness of shame and
degradation. The change was like the
removal of the garland and veil from the
skull of the skeleton guest at the ban-
quet of the old Egyptians. A light rain
was beginning to fall, the pavement was
becoming wet and clammy, and the girl
looked down with a sigh and a shudder
at her thin shoes.
Then she stepped upon the pavement,
shivered for a moment on the edge and
crossed the slippery street, to where the
large lamp over the door of a large cafe
threw its yellow glare upon the wet
sidewalk. A tall, well-shaped man came
out of the tavern at the moment she ap-
proached the door, and between him and
the young girl there passed glances of re-
cognition.
' Blodget!' she exclaimed, in a low gas-
ping tone.
'Ahl why it is little Fanny?' said he,
in a tone between a recognition and sur-
prise.
'Yes,' returned the young girl, with a
look at once appealing and reproachful,
'It is Fanny-your victim.'
' Humph,' said Blodget, averting his
countenance from the girl's earnest gaze,
and biting his lip. 'Have you been look-
ing fr me?1' he enquired, after a mo-
ment's pause, and still without looking

upon the girl's wan countenance, as if he
felt that her looks would reproach him,
even though she uttered not a word.
'No,' returned Fanny. 'I knew not
that you were in this city. I am glad,
Mr. Blodget, to perceive that you have
still so much virtue left, that you cannot
look upon the face of the girl you have
wronged and deceived, that you shrink
from the contemplation of your work o
evil.' .
' Don't let us quarrel,' said Blodget, in
a low voice, and with an evident uneasi-
nsss of manner.  'Come in, and we will
go up stairs, and have a bottle of wine.'
' Never, with you, Blodget l' exclaim-
ed Fanny, energetically.
'Your baseness has reduced me to a
depth of degradation to which I would
not at one time have believed possible
for me to fall, but never will I sit down
in a public room with the author of my
rain.
'Well, where do you live ?' said Blod-
get in a' tone of vexation. 'I cannot
stand talking to you in the street-be-
sides, it rains.'
'Ah, you are ashamed of me?' return-
ed Fanny in a tone of bitterness, though
her voice trembled and her lips quivered
as she spoke. 'Why were you not rath-
er ashamed to become the destroyer of
my happiness, my innocence, perhaps,
my soul?'  *
'Pooh, nonsense, Fan,' returned Blod-
get, the glow of conscious guilt mantling
upon his cheeks, in spite of his assumed
nonchalance. 'You are in a melancholy
mood to-night, and ifyou mean to stand
here talking like that, I shall rush off.
It is getting late, and you had better go
hone.'
'Home!' ejaculated Fanny, with a bit-
ter intonation, and hot tears gathered in

OF SAN FRANCISCO.              143


144             .MYSTEIlIES AND MISERIES

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                     145

her dark eyes, and trembled on her
black and silken lashes.
' Bill l' said Blodget, to a pale, shabby,
dissipated-looking young man, who came
out of the bar-room at that moment-
'bring a back !'
In a few- minutes the vehicle rolled up
to the spot, and the driver jumped from
his seat to open the door. Fanny allow-
ed her seducer to hand her into the back
but her thoughts were wandering, and
she felt a slight degree of surprise when
Blodget got in, and seated himself by
her side.
' Where to, sir,' said the driver, as he
closed the door.
Blodget looked at Fanny, who men-
tioned the name of the street in which
she lived, and in a few minutes the hack
was dashing over the miry road. Fanny
leaned back in silence, and when her
companion passed his arm around her
waist, she shrank from his touch, and he
instantly removed it.
'What is the use of your being angry
with me, Fanny ?' said he, in a deprecat-
ing tone. ,' What has passed can never
be recalled, aid had better be forgotten.
Let us      '-
'Forgotten ?'exclaimed Fanny, raising
her dark eyes sadly and reproachfully to
his countenance, as he saw by the light
of a lamp which the cpach passed at the
moment. ' Do you think that I can ever
forget what I have been or what I am
now?  That I can forget there was a
time when I was innocent and happy,
and cease to contrast that time with the
wretched present ?'
'Why are you not happy now?' in--
quired the roue.
Can you ask me why I am not hap-
py now, Blodget?' returned Fanny, in a
tdne of deep and touching emphasis.

' Ah, do not affect what you do not feelI
Do not make me think you so thoroughly
heartless as such a question would imply.
You know that I am not and cannot be
happy.'
Blodget was silent, and in a few'mo-
ments the hack stopped opposite the
house that had for some weeks been the
abode of the lost and degraded Fanny.
Blodget sprang out, assisted Fanny to
alight, and having discharged the hack,
followed the young girl up the court and
into the house in which she lodged. She
ascended the stairs, permitting Blodget
to follow her, and when they had entered
a small bedroom of the most wretched
appearance. She closed the door,.set the
light which she had received on entering
the house, upon a pine table, and sinking
upon a chair by the side of the bed,
buried her countenance in the clothes.
'How long have you been in such a
place as this?' inquired Blodget, as he
threw a quick glance round the wretched
chamber.
'I permitted you to come here, that
you might form a faint idea of the depth
to which you have plunged me,' said Fan-
ny, raising her head from the bed.
' Reproaches are useless,' returned the
man, gloomily: ' I am sorry for what
has passed, Fanny, and now let us be
friends again.'
On what terms?' inquired Fanny.
'Oh, never mind the terms !' returned
Blodget, sitting on the side of the bed,
and taking the young girl's hand. 'Kiss
me, Fan., and we will have a bottle of
wine up here-no, not here,' he added,
again casting his eyes around the miser-
able chamber. 'Come away- with me to
a house of accommodation.'
'And to-morrow ' said Fanny, doubt-
fully and inquiringly.

'To-morrow we shall be as good friends same bed with you, unless as your wife,'
as ever we wete.'                   exclaimed Fanny, with solemn earnest-
'Blodget,' said Fanny, in a deep and ness. ' I would rather lay down in some
even solemn tone, while she raised her secluded spot, and die of hunger; or seek
dark eyes to his countenance, with an ex- a refuge from the shame and misery that
pression of profound earnestness,' I would are killing me, in the waters of the bay.
rather die than continue to lead the life  ' Good night, then,' returned the sedu-
which I have lived since you so unkindly cer. ' I am off! I will do the generous,
deserted me. Indeed, I know not why I though.'
have not long since sought death in pre-  The libertine's tone and manner were
ference to such a life of shame, and mis- hurried and uneasy. He took a slug from
ery and conscious degradation. Tell me his purse and laid it on the table, but
whether you mean to atone for all that Fanny rose immediately, her dark eyes
you have made me suffer by making me flashing and her cheeks glowing, and tak-
your wife?'                         ing up the coin, threw it at his feet.
'You cannot expect it,' returned Blod-  'Not from  you, sir !' she exclaimed
get, dropping her hands, and taking a vehemently. 'I will neither sell myself
hasty turn across the room. You have to you, nor have it thought that I have
seen enough of life by this time, I should done so. You sought me, and you gained
think, to see the foolishness of such an me, and I do not blush for what has pass-
expectation.'                        ed ; but my fond and trusting heart be-
' My experience of life has been bitter traded me, and not such a paltry bribe
enough, God knows,' said Fanny, heaving as that. Would you have me despise
a deep sigh, while tears again gathered myself more than I do already 4'
in her dark eyes. ' Why did you ever   'Fanny,'said Blodgetin a tone which
seek my love?  Was it honorable to do evinced considerable agitation, for the
so, and to win my heart, and then, when words, look, and tone of the poor girl had
I had given you the tenderest proof of at length penetrated to his heart. 'Let
love that woman can bestow, to cast me us be friends, as we were before I left
from you as you might a flower that you New-York. Forgive me for what you
had plucked for its beauty and fragrance, have suffered, and kiss me.'
and when it had ceased to charm, you   'No ! no !' returned Fanny,'extending
cast upon the footway to be trodden upon her hand to ward him as he approached
and to mingle with the mire?  That is
whatyou avedone--that has been my her. ' I forgive you, and now leave me;
what you have de                  ybut remember that there is One besides
fate'
e                 helped now,      whose forgiveness you have to seek, and
'Well, it cannot be hleno, Fn       hs pardon is of more conse~c    e
observed Blodget, some twitchings of re- whoseparnmence
morse giving a slight degree of impa   ' than mine.
tience to his tone. ' Will you come    'You will not kiss me, then-not even
away from heretand have a bottle of as a sign of your forgiveness?' said the
wine with me? Nay, if you like it bet- libertine, who thought that if the young
ter, for once I will stop here.'     girl suffered him to hold her in his em-
'Never again, Blodget, will I press the brace lie should be able to win her to a


146 -             MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

more agreeable termination to their in- of that crushed violet of the pavement,
terview than appeared likely otherwise.  revolted at the thought.
' No,' replied Fanny, firmly. 'You have  Yet must she have money; she was
ceased to love me, and I should loathe penniless, and for her there was no alter-
myself were I to suffer any approach to native between a life of infamy and de-
a renewal of our former intimacy. Blod- gradation, and the unblessed grave of the
get lingered a moment longer, glanced suicide. Moreover she could not bear
toward the slug which still lay on the to be alone with her heart-crushing brain-
floor, where the indignant girl had thrown searing, maddening thoughts: she felt
it, and then quitted the room.       that she must fly from them, or, madness
When the door had closed upon her or suicide would be the result. The
seducer, Fanny threw herself upon the thought of surrendering herself to the
bed, and hiding her countenance in the embraces of a stranger was less repugnant
clothes, burst into a flocd of bitter and to her mind, in the mood which had
scalding tears. Oh, how agonizing were come upon her, than that of selling to
the reminiscence, how bitter the reflec- her seducer for money the favors which
tions, evoked by the accidental meeting he had once enjoyed through her love; if
with the man to whom she owed all the she must sin, she resolved that it should
unhappinesssheeverknew. The thought not be with him, to those arms she had
of her home, of the poor, but honest par- originally gone pure and chaste.
ents whom she could never look in the  Leaving the money upon the floor, she
face again, of the companions of her went down stairs, darted past a stout red-
childhood, in the village of her birth, faced old woman in a faded silk dress,
and from these subjects of reflection her whom  she m
thoughts wandered to the beginnings of      -            passage, in order
to avoid an explanation, and rushed
her ill-starred acquaintance with Blodget, through the miry court into the street.
and hpie se dssolving of the dream A misty rain was still falling, and there
blissful, but, alas, so transient.   were few persons in the streets, but she
Her tears ceased to flow, without hav- knew there were yet plenty of loungers
ing brought her any relief and seating and revellers in the taverns about Com-
herself by the bedside, she grew by de- mercial Street, and thitherward, she re-
grees more calm, but it was an unnatur- traced her steps. She had nearly reach-
al calmness, not the tranquility which ed the crossing of Montgomery Street,
speaks of peace within, but a mere lull when she saw a young man come out of
in the tempest of human passions. She the corner bar-room  and walk down
glanced at the glittering coin upon the towards the wharf, with a reeling gait,
floor, but she felt that to pick it up and as if under the influence of liquor.
appropriate it to her own use, would be Thinking that he might be easily induced'
to accept a money compensation for her to accompany her home, she followed
wrongs, and though husbands in the up- him, but before she could overtake him
per classes of society are accustomed to he entered another bar-room.
accept such compensation from the se-  Fanny lingered for a moment on the
ducers of their wives, yet the purer soul clammy pavement, but the deserted sp-

pearance of the steets speedily decided
her, and she turned into the house and
entered.
The young man was sitting at one of=
the tables over which he was leaning,
with his head leaning on his arms, and
his countenance concealed: but no one
else was in the room. A glass stood on
the table. The man did not move when
she entered, though she knew he could
not be asleep, having only entered the
house a moment before.
'What a dissagreeable night,' Fanny
ventured to observe, in the hope of at-
tracting the young man's attention.
At the sound of her voice he started
from his seat as if he had received a
shock from a galvanic battery, and gaz-
ed with mingled wildness and earnestness
at her. Fanny started also, and stagger-
ing backwards, sank upon a bench, and
covered her face with her hands, for she
had recognised Robert Jervis, her affi-
anced lover, in the days of her virtuous
happiness. Jervis was pale, and the un-
expected meeting with one whom he had
once loved so ardently hadkgiven to his
countenance an expression of wildness
and extreme agitation.
' Has Fanny sunk so low as this? and
s6 soon, too,' said he, in a low voice, ren-
dered hoarse by the agitation of his feel-
ings. 'Has she who ran away from
her home become in so short a time a
.midnight- frequenter of barrooms, and the
common associate of the vicious portion
of a class, the reputable members of
which she once looked down upon with
disdain P
dSpare me, Robert,' said Fanny, in a
faint and broken voice, and without re
moving her hands from her countenance
'You know not what I have suffered-
what I am suffering now.'

'I can easily believe that,' returned
Robert, surveying her with a look of
mournful interest. 'You have made me
suffer, too-more deeply than I can find
words to express; but I will not reproach
you While you have a heart to feel, if
vice does not harden it to the core, you
will find reproaches there which I cannot
spare you.
'I do,' exclaimed Fanny, sobs choking
her voice, and the pearly tears trickling
down her hands. 'You cannot reproach
me more severely than my own heart
does at this moment. If you knew all
that I have endured and am enduring
you would pity me.'
'Pity you!' said Robert, who had be
come perfectly sober the moment he re-
cognized the lost girl upon whom he was
now gazing. 'I have never ceased to
pity you since the moment of my return
to reason after that-hour of madness that
ruined both myself and you.n
'It was all my fault,' sobbed Fanny,
weeping as if her heart would break.
'It matters little now, whether the
fault was wholly yours or partly mine,'
said Robert, taking a hasty turn up and
down the room. 'It was more the fault
of that villain Blodget : may heaven's
avenging lightnings scathe and blast him!
May his own happiness and peace of
mind be wrecked as ours have been!'
Fanny sobbed bitterly, and dared not
raise her eyes to Robert's agitated coun-
tenance. The young man took two or
three turns up and down the bar-room,
and then he became a little calmer, and
pausing near the table at which he had
been sitting, threw a furtive glance tow-
ards the weeping Fanny.
'And you have really fallen so low as
your presence here seems to imply?' said
he, endeavoring to steady his voice,

OF SAN FRANCISC 0.             147


148      .MYSTERIES,
though it was low and tremulous, and
his lips quivered as he spoke.
,Imagine the worse, and you will
know all,' replied Fanny, in a broken and
faltering voiee. 'I have wished a hun-
dred times that I were at the bottom of
the bay, but I cannot do it. I pray for
death, that I may be spared further mis-
ery and sin, and yet I live.'
'Heaven have mercy on us all, for we
have need ofmercy !' exclaimed Robert,
in a tone which betrayed the emotion
that he felt, and leaning with his elbows
on the-table, he buried his face in his
hands.
He heard Fanny sobbing, but for some
moments neither of them moved or spoke.
Then he heard a slight rustling, and he
removed his hands from his pale and
agitated countenance, and slowly raised
his head. Fanny was hurriedly leaving
the room; it was her mantle brushing
the door as she passed out, which he had
heard. He sighed heavily, and then he
dropped his head upon his hands again,
and sat silent and motionless, until roused
by the entrance of the bar-keeper who,
thinking ttiat he was asleep, shook him,
and bawled that he was going to close
the house. Then he arose, quitted the
house, ,and walked slowly, and with an
expression of misery and despair upon
his pale countenance.  The rain had
row degenerated into a thick fog, through
which the lamps twinkled dimly, and the
pavement was covered with thin mire of
the color and adhesive quality which dis-
tinguishes the mud of San Francisco, ex-
cept where the broken condition of the
pavement of the footway permitted thej
turbid water to lay in 'large puddles,I
dimly, reflecting the street lamps. Re-
gardless of the puddles,- Robert walked
oni, ilow with his eyes fixed upon the

AND MISERIES,
miry pavement, and now looking fo ward
with contracted brow and moving though
silent lips; and when he reached a lane,
he went straight on and entered a house.
Thither we will not immediately follow
him.
On leaving the bar-room, where she
had encountered Robert Jarvis, Fanny
had hurried down to the wharf, where
she began to walk more slowly, the ter-
rible excitement which had until then
impelled her onward, beginning to sub-
side. But though she walked more
slowly, she kept towards the bay, and-
still walked slowly onwards. About the
hour of one, she advanced towards steps
leading down to some water. It was
not the first time since she had added
herself to the thousands of unfortunate
women who seek the wages of sin, that
she sought the bay with suicidal pur-
poses, but there was something so terri-
ble and so awful to her mind in the
thought of death, that she had ever
dared to attempt the execution of it..
'It must be done,' she murmured, as
she approached the steps. 'I can endure
this dreadful life no longer.'
She descended the steps hurriedly, but
on the lowest that was uncovered by the
water, she paused, and gazed upon the.
dark bosom of the flood that rolled with
a hoarse dull murmur.
'Death! What is it ' murmured the
miserable girl, clasping her small white
hands, and looking down upon the water
that rolled darkly at her feet.  Awful
mystery, which I wish, yet fear, to solve!
Is it but the intermediate state which
mortals pass through to free the soul
from the grossness which clogs it during
its sojourn on earth, and fit it for a
higher and happier state of existene?
or is it a long sleep-sat night wihu

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

CHAPTER XV.
We must now return for a space to
Inez and her captors. The unfortunate
girl had but a very confused idea of
where she was being conveyed. When
the party reached the ranch she was
taken from her horse, and carried rather
than led, into the building.
She was taken down a narrow flight
of steps into what appeared to her to be
a subterranean apartment. And such,
in fact it was, for the dwelling to which

dreams, and to which no morrow
comes ? Is it, as some say, the chry-
salis state from which we emerge into
new life, like the butterfly? Unfortu-
nate analogy !-the repugnance to the
soul's annihilation, this longing after
immortality ? Oh there must be some-
thing beyond the grave, though what I
cannot say. It cannot be worse, what-
ever it may be than the life I am lead-
ing.,
She paused in her muttered solilo-
quy, thinking she heard soft and cau-
tious footsteps behind her, but on cast-
ing a look up the steps, she saw no
one ; indeed the fog prevented her
from seeing more than a couple of
yards.
' It is nothing,' she muttered. 'Now
to end a life of which I have long been'
weary! It is but a plunge-a splash-
ing of the water-a circling ripple on
the surface-and all will be over!'
As she murmured these words, the
poor girl threw herself into the dark
waters, adding to the long list of man's
perfidy and inhumanity-' One more
unfortunate victim.'

she had been taken had formerly been
a portion of one of the old mission es-
tablishments, which are so numerous
n California. The vaults beneath it,
had doubtless been excavated as a place
of retreat in case of attacks from hostile
Indians, or as a depository for the sa-
cred vessels of the church.
At length they reached the bottom
of this subterranean flight of stairs, and
then she was borne along a narrow pas-
sage of considerable length, the footsteps
of her ruffianly abductor raising dismal
and prolonged echoes. Her brain be-
gan to reel before the appalling idea that
she was being carried into the bowels
of the earth, perhaps to be immured for
life in some dungeon, where the atmos-
phere would be close and damp-where
moisture would trickle down the green
and slimy walls-perhaps, to be depriv-
ed of life; or, maybe, and the thought
made her shudder convulsively, subject-
ed to the brutal lusts of some vfle
miscreant whose crimes had made him
shrink into gloomy vaults from the
light of day and the arm of retributive
justice.
Her bearer seemed to be fatigued
with her weight for he twice set her
down and rested a few moment. At
length the end of the journey appeared
to be reached, and she was now laid
down upon some blankets, and the gag
removed from her mouth, and the cov-
ering from her head, and when she cast
a glance of terrified apprehension around
the place to which she had been brought
she was alone and in profound and im-
penetrable darkness.
Almost frantically the unfortunate
maiden gave vent to her long-suppress-
ed emotions in a piercing shriek, and
then sank into insensibility.

149


OF SAN FRANCISCO.

How long Inez lay-it that state of erlessness to evade her impending doom.
insensibility which came upon her when  She clasped her hands, and though
she found herself alone and in utter in darkness, her eyes wandered round
darkness,.in the place to which she had the room, and could any one have seen
beep borne, she had no means of ascer- her countenance at that moment, it
taming; but at length consciousness re- would have been seen pale and impress-
turned to the bewildered maiden by ed with an aspect of mingled wildness
slow degrees. Back from the memory and despair. .A new thought suddenly
cells of her brain came the recollection struck her, and partly stilled the tumult
of her retiring to bed the evening pre- of her mind; 'she would pray--it was
vious beneath her father's roof, then the mpossible, she thought, that God would
midnight abduction, the long and fear- forsake her, if she -prayed to Him, for
fli ride, and her falling insensible in succor and. deliverance. In obedience
the dark and gloomy chamber in which to this impulse, she knelt down upon the
she now was.                       thick carpet, and prayed long and fer-
'Where was she I Why- was she vently that He whose name was Love,
brought there '        .and whose attributes were Power, Wis-
She rose from the floor, and groping dom, Justice and Mercy, would deliver
.with her hands to avoid coming in con- her from the doom which was impend-
tact with any projecting article of fur- ing over her, whether that doom was
niture, she made a few cautious steps a violent death, or dishonoring outrage,
in the- direction of the door, by which which she dreaded most. This act of
she had been borne into the room by devotion exercised a tranquillizing influ-
her abductor, but her hands encounter- ence over her mind, and she rose from
ed no tangible indication of an entrance. her- knees considerably comforted and
The secret door, the darkness that strengthened.
seemed palpable, all must be parts of  While Inez was still pondering upon
ome infernal contrivance to shroud in her condition she heard a door' open
secreay; and mystery some diabolical and close. The person w
outrage, from the contemplation of the  d      h        who entered g
probable nature of which she shrank in fronted  he trebln gia lamp, and con-
horror. Through that concealed door hr horror henshebrecgizedoe of
which she could not discover, but which the villains whom she reneed
she yet knew to exist, the perpetrator-
would enter-those:walls would shut in burying the murdered man in the old
every sound, and deaden every shriek- obe building. Althoitgh her knees
thar sounaeaeneswoudveilr      trembled with fright she mustered cou-
that. palpable ,darkneswould veil ,the
%ieand guard from the chance of rage enough to ask him, 'What means
fA re recognition the criminal'! It was  is outrage, sir.'
dreadful for one so innocent, so defence-  'It means this,' said Blodget, for it
lss to stand there alone, enveloped in was that miscreant himself who stood
darkness, anticipating allthat was hor- before her. ' It means this,-that you
ide and revoltig t  her   mind, takethe oath which I shall administer,
and fearfully conscious of her utter pow.. swesring in the most solemn terms never

to reveal aught that has happened since
you left the mission last evening. The
second is, that you become my mistress.'
' Then I reject your conditions with
scorn and abhorrence' exclaimed Inez
turning away.
'Reflect well, my charmer,' said the
villain.
'Cease, sir!' exclaimed Inez. 'Say no
more ! I reject your offers with disdain.'
' I thought to find you more reason-
able,' said Blodget after a pause. ' How-
ever, if you hold out a week, you will be
the first who ever did. There are some
slices of fowl and ham, and some bread,
and a pint of wine, in the basket ; and
in the evening I shall visit you again.'
As he turned to leave the room, Inez
bent her gaze steadily upon the door, in
the hope of detecting the means by
which it was opened, but it had only
the appearance of a portion of the wall,
revolving upon hinges, and undiscover-
able on the inside when closed, from
the uniform appearance which the en-
tire wall then presented alike to the eye
and the touch. The door again rolled
noiselessly on its hinges, it closed with
a click, and Inez was alone in the pitch
darkness of her prison.
Satisfied that there must be som
means of acting upon the concealed me
chanism connected with the door, sh
ran her hands over the inside, and press
ed every square inch with her fingers
in the hope of touching something whici
would set in action the secret spring
This manipulation producing no result
she next treaded the floor near the doo
in the same manner, but still without
making any discovery. It then occui
  red to her that the spring might be sit
uated above 'her reach, and instantly
mounting upon the wicker basket whic

Blodget had brought her, she felt over
the upper part of the door, and the wall
around and above it as far as she could
reach.
An indescribable emotion of joy and
hope thrilled through her bosom, as her
fingers all at once encountered a small
knob or button, about six feet from the
floor, which yielded to the pressure, and
acting on some concealed mechanism,
caused the heavy door to revolve slowly
and noiselessly upon its hinges. Step-
ping from the basket, she peered into
the semi-obscurity of th.lobby upon
which the door opened, and discover-
ing an ascending flight of stairs, she felt
half inclined to venture up them ; but
on reflection, she thought such a step
would be imprudent, and satisfied with
possessing themeans of opening the door
at pleasure, she closed it to reflect, at
leisure, upon the way in which she
should make her discovery available for
the purpose of escape.
The impression that the door which
she had discovered was not the one by
I which she had been borne into the
chamber by her abductor still lingering
in her mind, she resolved to examine
the opposite wall in the same manner ;
e and, setting-the basket against the wall,
- she stood upon it as before, and pass-
e ed her hand over the wall in every di-
- rection. To her great joy she was not
, long in discovering a knob similar to
h that which communicated with the so-
. cret spring of the other door, and press-
t, ing upon it, a door opened like the one
r by which Blodget had entered, and the
t rush of cold air which fanned her cheek,
r- and the continued darkness, called to
t- her mind the recollection of the subter-
y raneans through which she had been
h borne the preceding night.

150

'AND. MISERIES

161


152         MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

. She hesitated for a moment, and then
she advanced her right foot cautiously,
and found that she stood at the head of
a flight of steps leading downward., She
descended two or three, and then she
returned to her chamber and closed the
door, resolving to wait until night be-
fore venturing into the subterraneans, so
fearful was she of having her evasion
detected before her escape was complete,
and of steps being taken to preclude1
the possibility of a second attempt. The
cravings of her stomach now began to'
demand attention, and feeling that some
degree of vigor would be required to
enable her to complete her escape, she
Bat down, and taking the provisions
from the basket, ate a portion of the
bread and meat. She hesitated as she
afterwards raised the wine to her lips,
lest it should be drugged, but reflect-
ing that such a step was little likely to
be resorted to after the open violence to
which she had been subjected on the
preceding night, she took a small quan-
tity, and then began to reflect upon the
course which she should pursue.
By deferring her attempt to escape
until night, as she had determined, she
would be exposed, she now reflected, to
a repetition of the outrage of the pre-
ceding night ; and would likewise be
less capable of ascertaining correctly the
.house in which she was a prisoner than
she would be should she escape by day-
light. She therefore opened the door
by pressing upon the knob which com-
municated with the secret spring, and
cautiously ascended the dark hight of
stone stairs. She reached the top in,
safety, groped her way along a passage
of considerable length, and at the end
was involved in as pitchy a darkness as
before.

At length she knocked her head
against a flat stone which appeared to
seal up the subterranean staircase, and
almost reeled under the concussion ; but
recovering from the blow in a few mo-
ments, she endeavored to raise the stone
by pressing upward with her hands and
shoulders. The stone was heavy, but
at length she succeeded in raising it on
end,- and when thus poised it was
easily removed from the aperture, and
she emerged into a large gloomy vault
or cellar, which was little less dark than
the stairs and passage which she had
traversed, or the chamber from which
she had escaped. The only light came
from a rude doorway in one corner,
where she could see the bottom of a
flight of rough steps, towards which-
she hurried ; but at the moment she
put her foot upon, the lowermost step
she heard rough voices.
No sound from the underground
chambers in which Inez was imprison-
ed could by any possibility reach the
outside of the building, even had there
been neighbors in the vicinity, but the
place was far remote from any other
human habitation. She had no means
of marking the flight of time, and
could not even distinguish between day
and night. But her persecutor had
told her that he should, visit her again
in the evening, and she resolved to be
in readliness to fly the moment the first,
warning sound of his intrusion struck
upon her listening ears. At length
when she heard the click of the secret
spring, she ascended with precipitation
the stone stairs which led, as she
thought, to liberty.
She had scarcely reached the top,
when she heard hurried footsteps be-
hind her, and, without casting a look

p

backwards, she fled in terror along the
subterranean passage. Her rapid foot-
steps were echoed by those of her pur-
suer. She had nearly reached the top
of the stone stairs leading to the place
in which she had found a lamp, and the
means of lighting it, when she stumbled
over a stone, or some other impediment,
and fell prostrate upon the ground, a
scream bursting from her lips, and the
lamp falling from her hand.
By this untoward mischance, the
lamp became extinguished, and before
she could recover her feet, she heard
the footsteps of her pursuer close at
hand ; and in another moment she felt
herself clasped round the waist, and all
her faculties succumbing to the force
of terror, she became insensible.
It was Blodget who had pursued
her, and he was greatly alarmed lest
she should escape.
As he was bearing her insensible
body into the chamber, a new cause of
alarm presented itself. One of his ac-
complices in guilt rushed in to tell him
that a party of horsemen, apparently
Californians, had dismounted in a
neighboring grove, and that two of
their number were reconnoitering the
ranch.
Blodget paused for a moment to
think, and then speedily determined
how to act.
- The party of which the man spoke
was composed of Monteagle, Joaquin,
and a few Californians, who, after infi-
nite pains, had discovered a clue to the
course pursued by the capturers of
Inez, and had traced them to the
ranch in which she was a prisoner.-.
Joaquin and Blodget had approached
the house in order to determine the
best course to pursue in order to cap-

ture the villains and release Inez.
' Listen,' said Blodget to his ac-
complice. 'If they find me here, I may
be recognised and arrested, if not for
this, for other trifling affairs, which
may end in neck-stretching. They can
have no proof of our carrying off the
girl, unless the wench is found. That
is not possible, as no one can have any
suspicion of the underground room.-
They will search the house, and finding
their search in vain, must leave the
place. I will try to get off unobserved
through the ravine at the back of the
ranch, and catch the first horse I can
find and make for the city. Let me
hear from you as soon as they go, and.
we will concert future measures about
the girl. I will be at our old place in
Jackson street'
As the villain concluded speaking, he
he drew and cocked his revolver, and
noiselessly moved from the back of the
house towards the ravine of which he
had spoken.
Hardly had the ruffian entered the
ravine ere he was descried by Montea-
gle, whose party had been placed so as
almost to surround the ranch.
' Stop I or Ildire,' cried Monteagle.
Blodget burst through the thicket,
and Monteagle leaped his horse after
him, but the fugitive turned sharply
round the moment the horse's hoofs
touched the turf, and discharged his
revolver. The darkness and hurry in
which he fired prevented him from tak-
ing aim, and Monteagle remained un-
scathed, but the bullet crashed through
the head of the horse, and the animal
reared up, and then fell upon its side
and expired.
Blodget fled precipitately, ana as
soon as Monteagle could extricate him-

OF SAN FRANCISCO.             153


154               MYSTERIES AND       MISERIES.
self from his dead horse, he rushed after over the smooth faces of bare brown
him, calling loudly on his friends. Two rocks, polished by atmospheric influen-
of them followed him, but Blodget kept ces, clinging to roots of trees which
the advantage which he-had gained by appeared above the soil, and inserting
shooting the horse, andsped across the their toes into crevices, or setting them
meadows with the swiftness of a hunted upon projecting'points.
cayote. Beyond the ravine there was  Near the summit Blodget paused to
a high steep hill, thinly wooded, and rest, to listen, and to look behind him;
on the further side of the bill a thick (below him he heard the voices of his
and extensive wood. If he could gain panting pursuers, the rustling of bush-
this wood, he doubted not that he should es and brakes, and the grating sound
be enabled to baffle his pursuers, and of their footsteps in the loose pebbles.
he made for the hill with the speed of He wipe the sweat from his brow, and
a grayhound.                      then he resumed his clambering pro.
He threw a hurried look behind him gress, still hoping to find a refuge in
as he reached the foot of the hill, and the wood on the other side. The sum
then dashed up the ascent, for he heard mit of the hill was sharp andbare, the
behind him the shouts of his pursuers brown rock coming- to the surface un-
and thevoice of Monteagle urging the covered by the scantiest layer of soil,
two men to come on faster. The hill and its bald crest passed, he had little
was steep/ and, except where a scanty fear of his ultimate escape. A glen
vegetable soil had been formed during or ravine, the sides of which were cloth
successive winters by the decay of moss ed with breaks or ferns, led from the
and leaves, its rugged side was covered summit down to the wood, and the
with smooth pebbles, in which the fu- shortest way of gaining access to the
gitive's feet sank and slipped as he toiled glen from the side which he was ascend
upward.' Until Monteagle reached the ing, was through a gap or cleft in the
hill, therefore, Blodget lost ground, but rocky crest of the hill. In the bottom
when his pursuers commenced the fati- of this gap laid a large- fragment o
guing ascent they were again upon an rock, nearly flat on the upper side, an
equality.,                       rounded at the edges by the abrading
The pursuers and pursued'were un- influence of rain and fog; probably i
able to see each other, and could only had originally been disruptured front
discover their relative positions by paus- the crags which arose on either side
ing to listen, and then only by such and remained in that position for ages
sounds as the slipping of pebbles under It partly overhung the steep whici
the feet, the rolling down of some dis- Blodget was now clambering up, an
placed stone, the rustling of brambles by pausing a few moments to recrui
and brakes, or the snapping of boughs. his strength, and then clinging with hi
The hill became steeper as the robber fingers to the fissures in the rock, h
and his pursuers approached the sum- drew himself up until he reached it
mit, and they had to grasp the boughs top in safety.
of dwarf oaks :to assist them in the as-  He felt the stone move as he crawle
cent, and sometimes to drag themselves over its smooth flat top on'ia hand

OF SAN FRANCISCO.             155

tQ
a
-
-
e
e
,e-
d
g
it
s.
d
it
is
e
so
Id
de

and knees, and as he paused for a mo-
ment in obedience to the instinct of
self-preservation, he heard some stones
in which the large rock was imbedded,
roll down the hill, chinking against the
pebbles, and bounding onwards, until
arrested in their course by the boughs
or roots of dwarf oaks and wild lilachs
which grew upon its side. It was clear
that the impulsion which his weight had
given to the stone, had displaced these
small fragments, chipped from itself or
the crags which it laid between when
it first fell there, and he hesitated in
the fear that in quitting the stone he
should cause it to'topple over, and be
crushed by its falling upon him.
In this dilemma he determined to
leap from the middle of it, in order to
avoid overbalancing it, and, standing
upright for a moment, he measured the
leap with his eye as well as the dark-
ness of the night would permit, and
bounded forward like a mountain goat.
He cleared the edge of the stone, and
alighted in safety below it, on the other
side of the hill; but again some frag-
ments of rock rolled down, and he
sprang aside, lest the whole ponderous
mass should slip from its position and
hurl him before it down the hill. But
the massive rock moved iot, an'd he
sped down the hill with the speed of a
deer.
Monteagle had made slower progress
than the robber up the steepest part
of the hill, and his companions did not
engage in the chase with equal vigor.
Hence they allowed Monteagle to keep
the lead; and, on coming near the sum-
mit of the hill, they diverged from the
track which he was following in order
to reach the glen on the other side
without passing over the large stone

I

which has been described. Monteagle
had caught a glimpse of Blodget as the
dark figure of the latter was for a mo-
ment dimly defined against the lighter
darkness of the sky, when he stood
upon the stone to leap into the glen,
and shouting, ' There he is!' he strain-
ed up the steep aclivity direct for the
gap in the hill's bare and rocky
crest.
He was not aware until he reached
it of the obstacle presented by the mas-
sive stone; but, as Blodget had passed
over it, he thought he could do the
same; and, clinging to it with both
hands, drew himself up, and succeeded
in reaching the flat top; but scarcely
had he done so when there was a rust-
ling fall of stones from beneath, the
massive fragment of rock slid from its
place, and a shriek of terror burst from
the lips of Monteagle as he found him-
self falling backwards, and the stone
with him.
His two friends heard the cry, and
for a moment stood silent and motion-
less on the steep bill-side, with their
hands still holding the boughs and roots
which they had grasped to aid their as-
cent. They heard the great stone rush
with a dull hoarse sound a few yards,
and then bound down the bill, crashing
through the dwarf oaks and clumps of
lilac, snapping the tender trunks of the
mountain trees, and grating over the
loose pebbles which filled the channels
made by the rapid descent of water
during heavy rains; but that cry of
horror and affright was not repeated,
and in a few moments all was still upon
the dark and lonely hill.
' It is the great stone !' said one with
bated breath.
'Poor fellow,' ejaculated the other,


156           MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

with a shudder. 'If it has fallen on
him, he is crushed!'
'Let us look for him,' said the first.
'Hush! I thought I heard a groan.'
They listened, but heard nothing, save
the sighing of the night wind among the
trees, and they went towards the spot
from which Monteagle had fallen, and fol-
lowed the track of the displacedstone,
which was marked by broken boughs and
torn herbage, down the hill. About fifty
yards down they found our hero lying
against a bush, which had arrested his
further progress. The night was too dark
for them to perceive the full extent of
the injuries which he had received, but
the inertness of the body when lifted
from? the ground, gave but faint hope
that vitality remained. A rude litter was
made of boughs, and the crushed body
being placed'upon it, was borne down the
hill and across the meadows to a little
ranch not far from the place.

CHAPTER XVI.

, A rude chorus that was being sung,
or rather shouted by several coarse and
desperate-looking men, who were seated
around a table in a back room of a very
low cabaret, and which was never visited
only by the most depraved persons who
resided in, or resorted to the neighbor-
hood. They were thieves, and if any-
thing could be judged from their coun-
tenances, they were capable of doing the
most desperate deeds. The table was
covered with glasses containing gin, rum,

and brandy, and of which they had all
been evidently partaking very freely,
and they were smoking as hard as they
were able.
There was a large wood fire upon the
hearth; and the red glare it cast upon
their features, gave them almost a super-
natural appearance, and altogether the
scene was as effective as one of those
that are often represented in a melo-
drama. Obscene jokes and songs had
been freely indulged in, and it did not
seem as if they were inclined to leave off
for some time. It was night, and the
wind blew boisterous without, but the
ruffians were making such a riot, that.
they heeded it not; and they were evi-
dently determined to enjoy themselves to
the most unlimited extent.
'Drink away, my lads,' said one Mike,
raising the glass to his lips as he spoke;
-'drink away; we ought to be merry,
for Fortune never smiled more brightly
upon us than she has done for some
time past.'
'Ay, you say right, Mike,' observed a
tall, dark whiskered man, whom the
thieves called Joe; 'but leave us alone
for doing business, and for availing them-
selves of fortune's favors when they are
to be obtained. Cap'n-a toast!'
'Ay, a toast; a toast;' responded the
others.
Mike raised a large glass, filled to the
brim in his hand, and said;--
' Well, my lads, I will give you a
toast, and that shall be, Success to our
dare-devil gang !'
'Bravo ! bravo !' shouted the theives.
' Here's to the dare-devil gang !'
'A capital toast,' said Mike-; 'and well
responded'to. With your leave, I will
propose another.'
'Ay, ay, a toast from Mike,' shouted

two or three of the thievs, amongst whom
he was a particular favorite; 'a toast
from Mike.'
'Fill your glasses then, my boys,' said
Mike; ' bumpers I bumpers!'
The thieves needed no second invitation
to do as Mike desired, and the glasses
were very quickly replenished.
'Here's confusion to the Vigilance
Committee !' was Mike's toast; and it
was followed by loud shouts from every
one in the room; the landlord of the
house at that moment entering, and
joining loudly in acclamation of it.
'Ah!' observed Joe,-they have found
us rather troublesome customers to deal.
wtth, and will again if they should ven-
ture to attack us.'
'I don't think that there is much fear
of that,' returned Mike; 'for we keep
too well out of their clutches, and have
met with such a career of success, that
we may set them at defiance !'
'Ay, ay,' answered Mike ; 'and may
we be always able to do so ; and all
those daring fellows, who will run the
risk to live a free life.'
'But Jenkins,' asked Mike, 'do you
not think that it was a very foolish thing
for us to loose so much time in affecting
the accomplishment of this plot of Blod-
get's ?'
' Certainly not,' returned Jenkins;
'Blodget has well rewarded us, and it
will ultimately pay us much better than
a trip to the mines would have done.'
' How?' demanded Mike.
' Why, Blodget must continue to do
the thing that's liberal, or else his game
will be up,' replied Jenkins. ' The lady
is in our power, and we must continue
to keep her so ; if Blodget does not come
to our terms, why, Old de Castro, no

doubt, will, and, therefore, we are sure
of a reward one way or the other.'
'Yes, the gallows!' observed one of the
thieves, who had been sitting apart from
the rest, and smoking his cigar heartily,
did not seem to feel any particular inter-
est in what was passing.
'There's Ben at his croaking again,
said Mike; 'he seems to take a delight
in--'
' Speaking the truth,' added Ben, in a
quiet, tone; 'it is very unpleasant to
hear it sometimes.'
'Pshaw ! don't make yourself a fool,
Ben,' exclaimed Jenkins; 'any one would
suppose, to hear you talk, that you had
become tired of a thief's life. But what
think ye of my determination, my lads 4'
'It is a famous one,' answered Mike,
'and cannot fail to work us good.'
'It must add much to our coffers one
way or another,' resumed Jenkins; 'and
I take no small credit to myself for the
thought ; besides, you know that we
have the fellow, Blodget, entirely in our
power, that murder, which-'
'Right, right,' interrupted Mike ; if
that were known, it would not be long
before Mr. Blodget would swing upon a
gallows.'
'Indeed it would not,' returned Jen-
kins; 'and he knows that, and dreads
us. The lady is a beautiful woman, and
I almost envy him his prize ; but some-
thing may yet happen to place her in
my possession instead of...his, and I do
not know that I should be over nice
about availing myself of such an oppor-
tunity.'
At this moment, between the pauses
of the blast, they heard a loud knocking
at the door, and they looked at each
other suspiciously, and starting involun-

OF SAN FRANCISCO.               157

t


158                    MYSTERIES A
tarily to their feet, placed their hands
upon their revolvers, and prepared 'for
action in case they should be surprised.
'Who is there ?' demanded the land,
lord.
'It is only I, Blodget,' was the answer,
and being satisfied that it was his voice,
the door was cautiously opened, and the
villain entered. He greeted them all
heartily, and then, by the invitation of
Jenkins, having taken his seat at the ta-
ble, the mirth of the gang wasg resumed,
and carried on with increased spirit,
Blodget joining in with as much freedom
as if he had been one -of the gang.
' Well, Mr. Blodget,' asked Jenkins,
'and don't" you think I managed this
business very well for you?'
'Aye, Jenkins,' answered Blodget; 'you
did everything that I could wish ; but
think you she will be safe where she is ?'
' Safe!' repeated Jenkins ; 'as safe as
when she was buried deep in the bowels
of the earth. Gordon is just the man
who will take care of her.'
' That is well,' replied Blodget; 'but
it is not unlikely that I shall riot have
any occasion to trouble him long.'-
'Why, you would never be such a
fool as to attempt to remove her from a
plade of security ?' demanded Jenkins.
'Circumstances -may compel me so to
do.'
' I understand you; but we must see
about the best means of preventing all
chance of that,' said Jenkins; 'you
have been a lucky, fellow,' Blodget, to
get the-lady in you power and at your
mercy; it is glorious revenge.'
It is, it is!' answered -Blodget; 'but
not sufficient torgratify me.'
'No?'
'What would you, then?'

AND. MISERIES

'I would have the life of Monteagle.
'Ah ! would you, then, again commit
murder?'
'Hold !' said Blodget ; 'mention not
my former crime ; I cannot think of it
without horror.
'Aid yet you can contemplate anoth-
er deed equally as sanguinary ?'
'Yes, the death of the detested Mont-
eagle I can contemplate, coolly contem-
plate ; and I shall never rest satisfied
until it is accomplished.'
'And would you dare to perpetrate it
yourself?' asked Jenkins.
' I dare,' answered Blodget ; ' were he
to cross my path ; but were I to follow
him to the Mission, or wherever he may
be, I should in all probability be discov-
ered, and taken prisoner, and then all
my schemes would at once be frustrated.
If- any one would undertake to commit
the crime, I would not fail to reward
them handsomely.'
'I see,' said Jenkins; 'you  would
have me or one of my men perpetrate
the deed of blood!'
I care not who it is, so that it is a
man on whom I can depend.'
'And the reward?'
'A thousand dollars!'
'It shall be done.'
' Ah ! say you so ? when ?'
' Come, come, you are in too much of
a hurry; and there is never anything done
well where so much precipitation is used
We must first ascertain where Monteagle
is.
' And that we may have some difficul-
ty at present in finding out,' said Blod
get, ' for, doubtless, he has gonein search
of Inez. My heart throbs impatiently
for the accomplishment of the deed, and
I shall not rest until I am sure that Mont J
eagle is no more.'

'On your promise of the reward you
have mentioned, the deed shall, by some
means or .other, be despatched:' replied
Jenkins; 'but you must wait with pa-
tience, and we will not lose any time or
opportunity to discover where he is, and
to put our plans into execution.'
'This assurance gratifies me, and I am
satisfied that you will not deceive-me!'
'You have had no reason to doubt me
hitherto,' returned Jenkins; ' and, there-
fore, there is no ocasion to do so now, I
believe.'
' But have you any idea how to pro-
ceed?' asked Blodget,
' In the first place,' returned Jenkins-
'It will be the best plan to send one of
the gang to the Mission, in disguise. He
may be able to learn the proceedings of
Monteagle, and probably find out where
he is.'
' I agree with your design,' said Blod-
get, in reply; ' and should it meet with
success, I shall not be ve.iy particular in'
giving a few additional dollars to the sum
already promised. But Inez, for whom I
have run such a risk, still remains obsti-
nate: and I do not think I shall be able

OF SAN Fl

to conquer her averson in a hurry.'     There was no answer. ~lodget be-
'And of what consequence will that be came impatient.
as she is in your power, she must yield  'What ! are ye all silent I' asked Jon-
to your wishes, or you can gain your de- kins.
sires by force.'                        No one offered to speak.
'Force! but I would rather that persua-  'What say you Mike?'
Mon would prevail; as notwithstanding   'I like not the shedding of human
my passion, I cannot bear the idea of vi- blood when it can be avoided,' he an-
olence.'                              swered; 'if, however, Jenkins, you order
'Why, true, it would be much better me to perpetrate this crime, although it
if it were avoided,' observed Jenkins,'but is against my inclination, I will obey
come, drink!'                         you: if I am permitted to use my own
'Here's.success to all our undertak- free will, I say I will not commit the
ings,' said Blodget; and he quaffed off crime. Will that answer suffice ?'-
the contents of his glass.'             ' It will,' said Jenkins ; ' but Joe, you
'Success to all our undertakings,' re-' will not refuse the thousand dollars?'

RANCISCO.                        159
sponded the theives and the toast was
drank tumultously.
' You have been a fortunate fellow,
Blodget, throughout your whole career,
and have, no doubt, accumulated some
money.'
' Why,' returned Blodget, with a self-
satisfied grin;''I have not much cause to
grumble. But then I have had to de-
pend upon my own wit and ingenuity.'
'Well, certainly, Blodget, you are a
most perfect villain.'
' I believe I may lay some slight claim
to the character.'
' Not a very slight one either,' remark-
ed Jenkins.
' You pay me a very high compliment.
' Ha! ha! hal'
' But who among your gang will un-
dertake the murderr'
Jenkins looked round upon his fellows,
but in not one of their countenances,
reckless and determined as they were,
did he notice any signs of a desire to
undertake the sanguinary deed.
' Who among ye is willing to earn
this rewardV' he asked.


OF SAN FRANCISCO.                -    161

100              MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

'I would not stain my hands with in-
nocent blood for twenty times one thou-
sand dollars, unless it was by your com-
mand,' was the answer.
'And Ben, what say you?'
'I am a robber, ready to defend myself
and my comrades from an attack; but I
am not a cold-blooded deliberate mur-
derer;' replied Ben.
'Damnation !' cried Blodget, fiercely ;
and he .arose from his seat and hastily
traversed the room.
'Be patient,' said Jenkins; ' this mat-
ter will be arranged, quicker than you
could possibly expect. You see, Blod-
get, although they are desperate men,
they are not quite such atrocious mon-
sters ras they have been thought by
many.'
'They are cowards if they shrink from
the-'
Before he could finish the sentence,
the thieves were all upon their feet, and
by their menacing looks, threatened ven-
geance.
'Hold ?' cried Blodget, and they all
immediately resumed their seats, although
it was very evident that the-observations
of Blodget had greatly enraged them,
and there were many scowling brows,
which convinced the villain that he had
proceeded almost too far.
'Blodget,' continued Jenkins, after a
pause ; 'you should be cautious in what
you say, my men are not used to hearing
such terms applied to them, nor do they
merit it. If Jenkins thought he-had a
coward amongst his gang, he would hang
him up to the first tree he came to.'
' I was wrong ; I was wrong ;' hastily
apologized Blodget; .'and I hope they
will.pardon me.'
'That is enough,' observed Jenkins ;

then turning again towards his men, he
demanded-
'And, so you all refuse to do this
deed?'
'We do;' was the answer from them
all; ' we shed not human blood only in
our own defence.'
'One amongst ye shall do the deed,
since I have promised this man, and will
not recal my word;' said Jenkins per-
emptorily'
There was a discontented murmuring
arose from among the thieves.
' What means this murmuring ?' de-
manded Jenkins, and his eyes glanced
fiercely upon them ; 'is there one among
ye who would dare to disobey my com-
mands ?'
'I will answer for all my comrades,
and say, no,' said Ben ; 'but we would
avoid an unnecessary deed of blood, and.
especially under the circumstances.'
'I have given my word, and it shall be
kept;' said Jenkins firmly; 'you must cast
lots!'
The thieves still looked dissatisfied at
this determination, and glanced signifi-
cantly at each other, but they did not
say a word. They scowled upon Blod-
get, who, however, did not take much
heed of them, certain as he was, that
while the captain of the gang was on his
side, he had nothing to fear from any act
of violence they might otherwise. con-
template towards him.
Reluctantly they were about to cast
lots, when there was the well-known sig-
nal heard at the room door, which being
opened, Gordon was admitted.
'Ah !' exclaimed Blodget, 'you have
just come in time, Gordon; I have a pro-
position to make to you.'
' Name it,' answered the ruffian.

Jenkins repeated the question he had
put to the others. Gordon appeared to
catch at the idea, and the thieves eagerly
awaited his reply, anxious to be released
from the perpetration of a. crime, from
which they all revolted.
Gordon did not make any immediate
answer, and he appeared to be meditat.
ing upon the proposal.
' Do you also hesitate, Gordon?1' in-
quired the captain ;--'you were not al-
ways so particular.
' I do not hesitate, only for one reason ;'
returned the miscreant.--
'Name it l' said Blodget.
'Let Blodget give two thousand dol-
lars, and the deed shall be accomplished,'
was the villain's answer.
'It shall be yours,' ejaculated Blodget.
'Enough !' said Gordon, ' I have your
word that the money shall be paid, and
Jenkins, no doubt, will be answerable that
you do not fly from your agreement?$'
'I will,' returned the captain.
' There is do occasion for it,' observed
Blodget, 'if you do not deceive me; I
will not deceive you,
'You had better not,' said Gordon,
with asinister look.
'You have good security for my keep-
ing my promise,' added Blodget ; 'let
the deed be done, and the money shall
immediately be yours.'
'But if I should .fail?$'
'If you do not wilfully fail, then one
half the money shall be your reward for
your trouble,' said Blodget.
'Enough,' replied Gordon, 'then the
bargain is sealed ; I will undertake the
hazardous deed.'
'Thanks, thanks l' said the blood-
thirsty Blodget ; 'perform  your task
well, and you will have my eternal grat-
itude'

'Pshaw l' cried the ruffian, with a
sardonic grin ; ' of what use is gratitude
to me? It is not a marketable commod-
ity. But what about the care of Inezl'
'Blodget will reside in the house du-
ring your absence, and I will leave Joe
to assist him in his charge,' replied the
captain.           1
' That arrangement will do,' said Gor-
don, after a pause.
'When will you start on your expedi-
tion ?' inquired Blodget.
' Immediately. There is no necessity
for delay,' answered Gordon.
"Tis well,' observed Blodget ; 'but
you will go disguised ?'
'Oh, leave me alone for that,' returned
Gordon. ' I have more reasons than one
not to wish to be known ; or the first
news that you heard of me would, in all
probability be, that I was the inmate of
a prison. I will so disguise myself that
it must be a penetrating eye, indeed
which could recognize me.'
' To-morrow, then?'
'I quit this place, and make my way
for the Mission,' rejoined Gordon.
'True; and to meet with success, I
trust.'
' It shall not be my fault, if I do not.'
'You will forward us intelligence when
you arrive there ; for I shall be all im-
patience till I hear from you;' said Blod-
get.
' I will,' replied Gordon, ' unless I see
that there would be any danger in so do-
ing.'
'Certainly.'
' And now that this business is settled,'
observed Jenkins, 'let us proceed to en-
joy ourselves-come, my lads, replenish
your glasses.
The thieves obeyed this order with hi-
larity, and the villain Blodget being sat-

i,


OF SAN FRANCISCO.                  163

162                  MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
nman desgnhe had couldwith difficulty keep his ecstacy
foied with the matu s   etch who Within the bohnds of reason.
formed,-and the atrocious wreh it, joined  In the morning Gordon, after having.
heartily with them in their revelry, which so disguised himself that no person could
they kept up for more than an hour af- by any possibility recognise him, and hav-
terwards, whenBlodget, Gordon, and Joe ing received some fresh instructions and
returned to thenhouse, and the captain injunctions from Blodget; took his depar-
and the rest of the thieves departed.  ture on his inhuman errand, and Blodget
Blod et felt a savage sensation of de- and Joe, with an old woman, were left
lg t fl    b s a thge s respectt  of  alone in  the  house.
the full consummation of his rostdiaboli-  We need not inform the reader of the
cal hatred and revenge against Montea- distracting hours of misery Inez had un-
l and he entertained the most san- dergone since her incarceration in the
guine anticipations of the success of his house. Her sufferings were almost too
plot.  Gordon was a deep, designing, powerful for human endurance, and it
and determined villain, and he had no was wonderful how she could retain her
doubt but that the reward which he had senses. Her agonizing thoughts were
promised him, would induce him to ex- divided between her own situation and
rt himself to' the uttermost.       that of her father, and her disordered im-
'Yes' he soliloquized, when he was agination pictured them, if possible, more
alone in his chamber, after parting with dreadful than they actually were.
Gordon and Joe for the night ; ' I feel  'I shall never behold him again,' she
confident that Gordon will not fail, and, sighed, and scalding tears chased each
that ere many weers have elapsed, my otherdown her pale cheeks; 'alas! I am
hated foe will be no more. Oh, this will torn from them forever. Or, if we should
be goodly revege. Inez, too, will then be again destined to meet, under what
be g    y   e   and nothing will re- circumstances may it not beI Myself,
lease'her from my power '           perhaps, dishonored-heartbroken; my
The wretch paced his chamber, as he poor father a raving maniac. Oh, Heav-
thus spoke, and his eyes sparkled with ens ! the picture that arises upon my im-
exultation. He picture to himself in agination is too horrible for contempla-
iagiation, the 'unbounded bliss that tion.'
wasin store for him in thegratification  She wrung her hands, and traversed
of his sensual and disgusting passions, her gloomy chamber with a trembling
and he determined that but a short time step.
should elapse, ere he would have the full  ' To be beneath the same roof with a
accomplishment of all his wishes. He murderer, too,' she added, ' and'that, too
slept but, little, that night, for thinking a murderer of the blackest dye! Oh,
pon his'villanoua stratagems, and when God I have I not good reason to be dis-
be refleted tha he was beneath the same tracted ? That terrible night when I
roof with the'unfortunate Inez, and had overheard the wretches conversing'upon
it in his power to force her to an imme- the monstrous crime'of which they had
diats 'cop.iie with, his wishes, he been guilty-when I saw them inter the
disate dominnee ! wig

mangled body of the poor white-haired
old man, their unfortunate victim, comes
fresh upon my memory as if it had only
been just enacted. My heart seems chil-
led to ice ; oh, surely the misfortunes
that have since attended me have been a
curse upon me for not having given such
information of the circumstance as might
have led to the apprehension of the as-
sassins. The unfortunate old man's bones
moulder in unhallowed ground, and his
blood calls to Heaven for retribution.'
She trembled violently, and almost
imagined that she heard a melancholy
sigh breathed close to her ear. She
staggered to a chair and leant upon it for
support, fearing to look around her, lest
she should encounter the ghastly and
blood-stained face of the murdered man.
All was profoundly still in the house,
and the miscreants who inhabited it
seemed to be locked in the arms of sleep.
Sleep ! how could wretches whose con-
sciences were burthened with such a
heavy weight of crime, sleep ?
The light in the lamp burnt dim, and
imparted a still more gloomy appearance
to the chamber ; and tho wind howled
dismally without, increasing the horrors
of that solemn hour. Inez seated her-
self by the side of her bed, and, after a
pause, did once more venture to look
around the room, but nothing but of an
ordinary description met her observation.
'What dreadful crimes may they not
have perpetrated in this house ! in this
very chamber!' She once more reflect-
ed, and again her terrors arose to a pitch
almost insupportable.
The light in her lamp, which had for
some time only been faintly glimmering,
now suddenly died away, and our hero-
ine was left in utter darkness. How she
longed for the morning, and that she had

some female companion near her in that
dismal place, if it was only the repulsive
old woman ; some one to whom she
could speak ; but silent and dreary was
everything around her, it was like being
confined in a tomb. She had kept the
embers of the fire together as long as
she could, but that had also become ex-
tinguished, and the room felt cold as it
was dismal and cheerless.
At length she crept into the bed with
her clothes on, and covered her head
with the counterpane, filled with a sensa-
tion of terror, she found it utterly impos-
sible to conquer. She. endeavored to
sleep ; but her mind was too much dis-
tressed to suffer her to succeed, and she
tossed to and fro in a state of agitation,
which no one but those who have been
placed in a similar situation, can form an
adequate idea of. The interview she had
had with Blodget, rushed upon her
memory, and she recollected every word
that he had spoken, and which had
given her every reason to apprehend the
worse consequences from his determina-
tion. Even the sight of that inhuman
man inspired her with a feeling of horror
no language can do justice to, and she
dreaded a meeting with him as much as
she would have done the most fearful
calamity which could have befallen her.
'.But I will be firm,' she reflected ; ' I
will muster up all my woman's fortitude,
strong in the defence of her honor, to
meet him, and oppose his importunities
in a manner that shall deter him from
proceeding  to violence.  Providence
surely will not forsake me in this mo-
ment of bitter trial, but will throw its
protecting shield over me, and defeat the
brutal designs of the libertine and the
miscreant ! Yes, I will put my trust in
Heaven, and prepare to meet my heavy


MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

trials with a firmness and resolution'be-c
coming of me''
- These thoughts somewhat composed
her spirits, and after a short time spent
in further rumination, she did at last sink 
into a disturbed slumber, in which she
remained until the sun had risen in the t
eastern horizon.
She arose, not in the least refreshed, t
and had not been up many minutes when
she heard the key turning in the lock,
and soon afterwards the old woman en-
tered with the breakfast.
She placed them on the-table, and then
fixed upon our heroine a scrutinizing look,
and shook her head.
' Well,' said she, in her usual disagree-
able tones ;-' pale cheeks and red eyes ;
no sleep again, I suppose, it puzzles me
how you young women can live without,
rest? when I was your age, nothing could
ever .prevent y sleeping.'
'When the mind is oppressed with
such unprecedented and heavy sorrows
as those that disturb mine,' answered Inez
---' if it is not entirely insensible, sleep
may be courted in vain.'
'Pho !' how very melancholy and dis-
mal you do look, to be sure,' answered
the old woman; 'any one would imag-
ine that you had experienced all the
troubles in the world; but stop till you
become my age, and then you may have
cause to complain.'
'Some persons troubles,' returned Inez;
'are brought on them by themselves ; by
their own vices, and--'
'Ah!' interrupted the old woman, snap-
pishly ; 'no doubt you think that a very
pointed and sarcastic observation, but, as
the cap don't happen to fit me, I shall
not wear it. Mr. Blodget will pay you
a visit presently, and perhaps you may

deem it prudent to behave a little more
vil to him.'
Inez shuddered.
'Oh, tell me,' she said; 'is he in the
house ?'
'Oh, yes, to be sure he is,' answered
the old woman; ' for he has taken up
his quarters here altogether now, and
therefore you will have plenty of his
company.'
' Living in the same house,' muttered
our heroine to herself, and she trembled
more violently than before; ' alas ? what
will becoma of me ?'
' Oh, no doubt he will take plenty of
care of you, young lady,' answered the
old woman, with a bitter sneer.
'He shall find,' said Inez, mustering
up sudden firmness, and speaking in a
tone that astonished and abashed the old
woman, 'he shall find that I have both
the spirit and the virtue to resist his im-
portunities, and Heaven will aid me to
defeat his design.. The guilty wretch ;
surely for his many crimes a terrible re-
tribution must be now pending o'er his
head.'
' The spirit you boast of, young lady,
said the old woman. 'I hav   no doubt
will be very quickly turned, or Mr. Blod-
get is not half so accomplished as I take
him to be.'
Inez darted upon her a look of disgust
.and indignation, but she could not make
her any reply, and after making two or
three observations of a similar descrip-
tion, the old woman quitted the room.
We need not attempt to describe the
feelings of our heroine when the old wo-
man had gone: the disgusting observa-
tions of the old woman, and the fearful
prospects which was before her, filled her
bosom with the utmost consternation,

164

and although she tried very hard to rally
her spirits, and prepare to meet Blodget
with fortitude, it was some considerable
time before she had it in her power to
succeed. To know that Blodget was an
inmate of the same house with her, was
sufficient of itself to excite the greatest
agony in her bosom; and when she re-
flected that it was not probable that he
would longer be able to restrain his wild,
unbridled passions, And that any resist-
ance on her part, would be completely
futile, she became almost distracted.-
AIs! she thought, how much more pre-
ferable would death have been to the
state of agony in which she was thus
constantly kept. It was only for the
sake of Monteagle anil her fa ther, whom
she could not entirely despair of behold-
ing again, that she clung to life, and had
she not had them to occupy her thoughts,
and her heart's warmest affections, she
would have met death with fortitude,
nay, even pleasure. What had been the
last few days of her life, but of misery ?
All mankind had seemed arrayed in en-
mity against her, and few indeed were
the real friends she had found. Her tears
flowed fast at these thoughts, and they
gave relief to her overcharged bosom.
At length she struggled with her emo-
tions, and so far regained her composure,
that she was enabled to partake of the
repast which the old woman brought her,
and to prepare to meet Bledget, whom
she had no doubt, and indeed the old
woman had said he would, visit her in a
short time.
She had but just risen from her knees
having implored the protection of the
Holy Virgin, when she heard footsteps
ascending the stairs, and directly after-
wards, her room door was unlocked, and

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                  168

the object of her fears and detestation
entered.
He stood in the doorway for a minute
or two,,and it was hard to perceive
whether he was awed and abashed by the
calm dignity and fitness of her demea-
nor, or lost in admiration of her superla-
tive beauty-still most exquisite, al-
though her once blooming cheeks were
pale and wan with heavy care.
Inez had mustered up uncommon for-
titude, and, as Blodget entered, she fixed
upon him a look which was sufficient to
penetrate the most insensible breast. It
was one of the most cutting reproach,
while resentment, and a firm reliance up-
on the strength of her own virtue, and
the protection of heaven, shown predom-
inant in the general expression of her
resistance, and approaching her with a
look of admiration which could create no
other sentiment than one of hatred in
her breast, he attempted to take her hand
and press her lips, but she hastily with.
drew it and, spurning him scornfully
away from her, exclaimed-
'  egone, sir, your presence is disgust-
ing to me. Dare not thus to insult the
victim of your guilt.
'Who's the master, now, fair Inez 1
demanded the villain, and a look of ex-
ultation overspread his features ; ' who
triumphs nowI'
'Oh, villain-heartless villain 1' cried
Inez, her bosom swelling with agony,
' can you stand there and talk to me
thus ? Are you not afraid that the ven-
geance of the Almighty will immediately
descend upon your head, and render you
powerless to do further harm?'
'I scorn it.'
Inez shuddered with horror at the
words of the wretch ; who, however,


166              MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

presently altered his tone, and once more
endeavoring to take her hand, which she
successfully resisted, he assumed an in-
sinuating smile, and in a voice 2f gentle
persuasion, said-
'Pray pardon me, beauteous Inez, if I
have been led into- the expression of
words that have caused anguish to your
feelings ; but the injuries I have received
from Monteagle-.'
"Tis false !' scornfully replied our he-
roine, and her brilliant eyes appeared to
fash fire; 'Monteagle never injured you,
but you was ever the serpent in his
bosom, waiting an opportunity to destroy
his peace, and you have yourself ac-
knowledged the same, and expressed
your inhuman exultation at the misery
which you have caused, him.'
Well,' returned Blodget, with the ut-
most coolness, and the boldness of his
manner increasing, 'I will not deny it,
because there is no necessity for my so
doing,.as the power is now mine. I have
already had a terrible revenge, but still
it is not complete, and never will I rest
until it is wholly accomplished.'-
"Oh, Blodget l' ejaculated Inez, her
fortitude failing her when+ she saw the
villain's recklessness and determination,
and reflected:that she-was entirely in his
power, and left solely to his mercy, or the
interposition of Providence, 'will noth-
ing induce you to relent in your cruelty?'
'Nothing,' answered Blodget, ' until I
have gained the full gratification of my,
wishes, and the consummation of all my
hopes. Then only shall I be satisfied.'
'-What mean you?'
'You will behold Monteagle no more.'
'Oh, God 1' ejaculated Inez, and her
heart throbbed heavily against her side,
her cheeks turned ashy, pale, and - her
limbs trembled violently as a dread of

something terrible about to take place,
through the guilty machinations of the
wretch who stood before her, darted
upon her brain; 'cruel as you are, surely
you would not seek his life?'
A grim and sardonic smile passed over
the features of Blodget as she gave ut-
terance to these words, but he returned
no answer ; his looks spoke more than
words, and had a thunderbolt at that mo-
ment descended upon her head, Ines
could not have felt more paralyzed and
awe-struck than she did at that time.
With distended eye-lids, she fixed upon
him a look which was sufficient to have
penetrated even the most obdurate heart,
and to carry awe to the guilty soul; her
features became stern and fixed ; her
lips parted but she uttered no sound, and,
suddenly approaching the astonished
Blodget,she grasped his arm vehemently,
and looked full upon him. Blodget could
not help, in spite of all his hardihood,
shuddering beneath her gaze, and the
singlarity of her behavior, but he was
not a minute before he completely reco-
vered himself, and looking coolly and
indifferently upon her, awaited what she
had got to say without first offering any
observation of his own.
'Blodget!l' at length ejaculated our
heroine, in a solemn tone of voice, and
with her brilliant and expressive eyes
still 'fixed with the same earnestness of
expression upon his countenance; '1Blod-
get, in the name of that Almighty power
who guides all our actions, and before
whose dread tribunal you must some
time or the other appear, however much
at present you may despise His name--
by all your hopes of forgiveness for the
many and heinous crimes you have com-
mitted, I charge you tell me-solemnly
tell me, what are your wicked designs?'

OF SAN FRANCISCO.'                          16?
'Psha 1" cried Blodget, and a fearful ing upon her knees, with clasped hands,
smile again overspread his countenance. she supplicated the ruffian's forbearance;
'Nay, I command you, in the name of but she pleaded to a heart callous to ev-
the most High, to set my horrible fears ery sense of feeling: he gazed upon her
at rest, and tell me,' demanded Inez, and emotion with indifference, and he exulted
her heart throbbed more violently than at the manner in which he had subdu-
ever, and her whole soul seemed to be ed her spirit, and flattered himself that,
wrapped up in the answer which Blodget in time, she would be entirely conquered,
would return to her; and she appeared and made to yield subserviently to his
as if she would drag the secret from his will. However, he endeavored to dis-
heart with her eyes.                 guise his real feelings, and, assuming as
'Enough of this,) at last said Blodget, mild an expression as he could, he raised
'I came not here to talk upon a subject Inez from the posture in which she had
like this, and-,---'                  been kneeling, and affected to smile kind-
'Heartless miscreant !' interrupted ly upon her. For the moment she was
Inez, ' too well can I read in your dark deceived by his looks, and hope sudden-
and portentous looks the base design ly darted upon her mind.
you have in contemplation. But Heav- ' You will relent,' she ejaculated, 'that
en will interpose to prevent the execution smile assures me that you will. You
of your infamous intention, and to save cannot, surely, be so cruel as to seek the
Monteagle from your monstrous machin. life of Monteagle. Has not the anguish
ations.'                             you have already caused him, and the
'We shall see,' returned Blodget, with miseries he is at present undergoing, all
the same consummate coolness he had be. through you, been the means of suffi-
fori evinced; 'we shall see. But hear ciently appeasing your vengeance?  Oh,
me, Iez-'                          Blodget ! repent ere it is too late, and re-
'I will not listen to you, until you have store me to my friends, and again I prom-
answered my question,' observed Inez ise you that you shall receive my pardon
'your very words are as poison to my and that of those who are dear to me, al-
soul.'                                though the injury you have inflicted on
'But you must and shall hear me,' ex- them and me is almost irreparable. If
claimed the other, with a determined air, there is one spark of humanity in your
and once more endeavoring to take our breast, if there is the smallest portion of -
heroine's hand ; 'you are securely in my that feeling remaining in your heart, to-
power, and think you that I will. be wards that sex who claims protection
frightened from my purpose by an ob- from every man, I shall not supplicate in
stinate woman's heroics. I come to of- vain; you will accede to my request,
fer you my love ; you reject it, but that and once more open to me the doors of
shall not avail you, for force shall make liberty ; and suffer me to fly once more
you comply with my wishes. As for to the arms of my father-my poor be.
Monteagle, I tell you once again you will reaved parent 1'
see him no more.'                      ' Beauteous Inez,' returned the wretch;
The courage of Inez completely failed 'this is madness, and a silly waste of
her, tears gushed to her eyes, and, sink- time. Think you, then, that after all the


18             MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

trouble I have taken, the risks I have
.run, and the plans I have laid down to
get 'you in my power, that I will now
quietly resign you?  Think you that I
would place myself at the mercy of my
enemies?  No, no ! you must give up
all idea of such a thing, and, henceforth,
look upon me in the same light as your
husband,-for you and I must not again
easily separate ! You must yield to my
wishes,-and that speedily ; I would have
you do so of your own free will; but if,
after a given time you still remain fool-
-ishly obstinate, then must I, however
much it may be against my wishes, use
force. Resistance, you perceive, will be
in vain, and therefore, I advise you to
make up your mind to assent without it;
then shall you receive every attention
from me, and I will behave in a manner
that shall leave you no cause to regret
your separation from your father.'
'Fiend in human shape,' ejaculated
Inez,'leave me ! My soul freezes with
horror as I listen to you! But I will
not entirely despair, although you have
bid me to dlo so; Heaven will interpose
to prevent the execution of your base
threats.',
'Did Heaven interpose to prevent my
getting you in my power?' inquired
Blodget, with a sardonic grin. ' Once
more I tell you, you shall be mine, and
nothing shall save you!'
'Never, villain !' cried Inez.
'Be cautions what you say, lady, lest
you exasperate me,' returned Blodget,
with a threatening frown, which made
our heroine tremble ; 'you forget that I
could, this day-this very moment--
force you to a compliance with my wishes,
and where is there one near at hand who
could come to save you ?'
'By Heavens I would die first !'

'Bah !' sneered Blodget; 'btst I am
tired of this useless contest of words;
you know my determination, and rest as-
sured that I will only await a very few
days for your answer, and then, if you
do not consent, you-"know the conse-
quences.'
'Once more I pray your mercy,' said
the distracted Inez, with clasped hands,
and looks of earnest supplication ; be-
ware ! oh, beware ! ere you proceed to
extremities.'
'You have it in your power to move
me to pity and love, fair Inez,' returned
Blodget ; 'one smile from you, one word
of affection from those ruby lips would
act with the influence of magic upon
me and make me quite a different man,
Blodget would then live alone for love
and you ; and there should not be a
pleasure which it should not be my con-
stant endeavor to procure you.'
Inez turned from the villain with a
look of the utmost disgust, and she
groaned aloud in the intensity of her
anguished feelings. Blodget advanced
nearer to her, and. sought to put his
arms around her waist, but the action
immediately aroused her, and retreating
to the further end of the room, she fixed
upon him such a look as awed him into
immediate forbearance.
'Still madly obstinate!' he exclaimed;
' but time must alter this proud beauty,
and you must yield to the desires of
Blodget, however repugnant it may be
to your feelings. At present I leave you,
but shortly you will behold me again,
and then I trust that you will see the
polity of giving me a more favorable re-
ception than you have done this morn-
ing.
As he spoke, Blodget fixed one glance
of expressive meaning, and then quitting

1

the room, he securely fastened the door
after him.
'The perverse woman,' he soliloquis-
ed, as he walked away ; but she must
be subdued ;-she must be subdued;
Blodget cannot much longer endure her
resistance. Oh, did she but know the
plot I have formed against the life of
Monteagle-but I said quite enough to
arouse her fears, although I now wish
that I had not done so, as it would be
sure not to promote my wishes. I wish
not to have to use violence, or I could
do so directly ; no, my greater triumph
would be to prevail upon her to give
her own free consent, and that would
add to the gratification of my revenge.-
Blodget, if you fail in this, it will be the
first time that you have failed in any of
your undertakings.'
The villain walked  ay, and after
giving strict injunctions o Joe to keep
safe watch over his charge, he bent his
footsteps towards the cabaret, at which
he and the thieves had been the night
before carousing, and where, in a back
room, he could commune with his own
thoughts,withou tany fear of interruption.
CHAPTER XVI.
The Critical Move--Attempted Escape.
WHEN Blodget had retired from the
room, our heroine gave vent to the pain-
ful feelings which her interview with him
had excited in her bosom; and hope
seemed to have faded entirely away from
her mind; for if the villain remained ob-
atinately resolved to put his diabolical
threats into execution, what means had
she of resisting himI  None !  Then

OF SAN FR4NCISCO.                16W

again the hints he had given convinced
her that he had some base design in his
mind.
She was aroused from these reflections
by the entrance of the old woman who
had come to do something in her
apartment, and whose disagreeable looks
assured our heroine that she took a plea-
sure ifi tormenting her, and saying any-
thing which she thought might excite
her feelings, ald Inez, therefore, deter-
mined to avoid conversing with her, as
much as she possibly could. The old
woman, however, appeared to be deter-
mined that she should not escape so
easily ; for the words she had so pointed-
ly directed to her in the morning, re-
mained in her memory ; and after having
eyed her with an insolent glance for a
second or two, she ejaculated, in her
usual harsh but querulous tones:
'I hope your ladyship feels happier af-
ter the interview you have had with your
lover, and that the observations he has
addressed to you, have met your appro-
bation, Oh, he is a very nice gentleman)
He! he! he!'
And the disgusting old woman croak-
ed forth a laugh, which could scarcely
have been imagined to have been utter-
ed by anything but a witch ; and appear-
ed to think that she had spoken very
wittily and sarcastically. But Inez did
not deign to condescend her any answer,
and she averted her eyes, for there was
something so remarkably disagreeable in
the woman's face, that she could not
bear to look upon it.
The old woman saw plain enough that
her observations annoyed Inez, and al-
though she felt rather vexed and disap-
pointed that she did not answer her, she
determined to follow them up.
'It seems that you have lost your


MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

V
t
li
y
t
t
I
1
e i
]
I

ongue since your interview with Mr. plot against you. Heaven protect you
flodget,' she said ; 'but that is of very and avert the evil fate destined to you
ttle consequence, I can talk enough for by your implacable enemy !'
ou 'andI too, and as Gordon has left  'If Blodget only plays his cards sue
he house, you will, in all probability, cessfully, as he has hitherto done, I do
ava a little more of my company than not think that there is much chance of
ou otherwise would have done.'      your seeing your poor unfortunate lover
'Gordon left the house ?' repeated our again;' said the hag with a sneer, and a
heroine eagerly"; 'thank Heaven ?   look which was perfectly hideous.-
'Indeed !'said the old woman; 'then,  Poor Inez gazed upon the unnatural
f his absence affords you'pleasure, I can old beldame with a look of horror and
All you that it will not be of long dura- disgust,
ion ;- -he is only gone some distance on  'Inhuman woman ;' she ejaculated,
secret mission, for which he is to re- ' thus to take a pleasure in tormenting
eive a handsome reward from Mr. Blod- one of your own sex, who has never of-
get l'                              fended you, and whose misfortunes and
'Ah 1' crie4 our heroine, turning very oppressions onght to excite your pity and
pale, and-a feeling of horror coming over sympathy.'
her; * on a-secret mission for Blodget ?  'Pity and sympathy,' repeated the
in what fresh plot of villany is he en- woman, with bitter sarcasm ; ' they are
aged ?'                      .      qualities that none but fools would retain
sOh, that I do not know; and if I did, possession of; I never experienced them
t is not very likely that I should inform from any person yet, and I have banished
you. It is something of importance I mine from my breast many years since.'
dare say, or else Gordon would not have  ' I do believe you,' sighed Inez; ' but
been employed ; and no doubt concerns I can sincerely pity you, for there will
you.'                            -   be a time come when you will be brought
Inez felt her horror increase, and she to'a terrible sense of your iniquities, and
trembled so that she could scarcely stand. awful will then be the punishment you
The old hag observed her emotion with will have to undergo.'
much satisfaction, and a savage grin   'Hey day !' exclaimed the. beldame ;
overspread her features.             ' I declare you're quite an adept at
'Something that concerns me;' she preaching a sermon, but its beauties are
exclaimed, and her terrible forebodings entirely lost - upon me ; and I do not
convinced her that the old woman did think that you will find Mr. Blodget any
not make use of these Observations with more ready to approve of them than I
out good reason.                     am.'
'Oh, my dear friend !' she added, as  'Leave the room,' said Inez, in a tone
she - recalled to her memory the dark of resentment, ' and let me alone to my
hints which Blodget had given utterance reflections; your language is brutal, and
to, and covering her face with her hands, I will not listen to it.'
she sobbed hysterically. ' Oh, my un-  'But I am afraid you will have to lis-
fortunate rescuer ;' she continued, ' I ten to it very frequently,' returned the
tremble for you; surely this is some dark old woman, 'as disagreeable as it may

I7s

1

be. As for leaving the room, you will
please to recollect that you are not mis-
tress here, consequently I shall not attend
to your orders until it pleases me.'
Inez walked away, and throwing her-
self into a chair, once more covered her
face with her hands, determined not to
pay any future attention to what the old
harridan might say. The latter laughed
sneeringly, and after muttering a few
spiteful remarks that our heroine (lid
not hear, she applied herself more assidu-
ously to the task she had to perform in

nay, perhaps he was no more, and she
was not present to receive his last sigh
or to enfold him in a dying embrace.--
The thought was almost past endurance;
and it was a fortunate thing for our he-
roine that a torrent of tears came to the
relief of her overcharged heart.
Three weeks elapsed without any ma-
terial change taking place in the situa-
tion or-prospects of Ines. Blodget visit-
ed her every day, and she was annoyed
by his disgusting importunities; and fre-
quently was he so worked up by the op-
position which she offered to him, that
he was half tempted to proceed to vio-
lence; but a secret power appeared to
restrain him, and to watch over his un-
fortunate victim.
Blodget was in a state of considerable
anxiety and suspense, for he had not yet
heard anything from Gordon, and some-
times he was fearful that he had been
detected and was in custody ; but again
he thought, if he had been so, he should
see some account of it in the newspapers,
and he, therefore, at last endeavored to
conclude that Gordon thought it prudent
not to write to him, and that he was in
a fair way of being ultimately successful
in his blood-thirsty designs.
The thieves had made several success-
ful hauls, since the departure of Gordon,
and they were not less anxious than Blod-
get was to know what had become of
him, and whether he was safe, for Gordon
was acquainted with many circumstances
that might greatly endanger them, should
he be tempted to divulge them. Such
is the doubt and suspicions that ever ex-
ist between the guilty.
At length, however, after another forte
night, a message arrived at the ranch of
Gordon, which came from him, and it
may well be imagined with what eager

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

171l

the room, and at the same time hummed,
in discordant tones, snatches from differ-
ent vulgar songs, which fell listlessly
upon the ears of Inez, who was too deep-
ly engaged by her own melancholy
thoughts to pay any attention to them.
At length having, much to the satis-
faction of our heroine, _completed her
domestic duties in the room, the woman
fixed upon Inez a spiteful look, and then
retired from the apartment. When she
had gone, our heroine immediately sunk
upon her knees, and, with upraised hands,
she implored the mercy of the Supreme
Being, and that He would protect her
father and her lover from anydanger by
which they might be threatened. She
arose m ore composed and confident, and
endeavored to hope that, after all, the
wicked designs of Blodget might be foil-
ed, and that something would yet trans-
pire to release her from her present in-
carceration, and the future persecution of
the villain Blodget, for whom no punish-
ment could be adequate to the different
crimes he fad been guilty of.
Frequently did her thoughts revert to
home, and she could well imagine the
grief experienced at her mysterious dis-
appearance. The idea of the deplorable
condition of Monteagle was maddening


172              MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

baste Blodget broke the seal, and glanced
his eyes over the contents. They afforded
him the most unbounded satisfaction.
'Ah ! by the infernal host ! this is cap-
ital,' exclaimed Blodget, when he had
concluded perusing the letter; 'my ven-
geance will soon be complete ; and I have
no doubt that Gordon will shortly be
able to discover Monteagle, and to ac-
complish the deed for which my soul'
pants.'
He immediately sought out Jenkins,
who was at his usual place of resort when
be-was not on his expeditions, and show-
ed him the letter. from  Gordon. The
robber captain perused it. with satisfac-
tion, and his apprehensions were now at
rest.
'What think you of the suggestion
which Gordon has made ?' asked Blod-
get, when Jenkins had finished reading
the letter.
'Why, that it is a very excellent one,'
answered the captain.
'True,' coincided Blodget.
'You will avail yourself of it, then ?'
'Why,,think you not I should be fool-
ish to miss such an opportunity ?'
'I do.'
'Gordon deserves an extra reward for
this.'
He is a shrewd fellow.'
'And one who does not stand particu-
lar about trifles.'
'No, crime and he are familiar. But
how would you accomplish-this design ?'
I have-not as yet had time to consid-
or it properly,' answered Blodget; 'can
you give me any advice, captain?'
'Gordon I do not think can do it with-
out assistance.'
.'Probably not.'
'If I and a crew run the risk of going
in a lgoat to Mission Creek, and bring the

fellow away, of course you will reward
us ?'
'Certainly ; but that course will be at-
tended with much danger, for should the
real character of your boat be known -'
'Oh, I can manage it so that there
will be no danger of a discovery taking
place,' replied Jenkins.
'Ah, then, be it so, and we will not
fall out about the reward.'
'Agreed,' answered the captain, 'an
answer must, therefore, be despatched to
the place where Gordon is staying, ac-
quainting him  with our intentions, so
that he may make the necessary prepar-
ations for carrying our designs into exe-
cution.'
'It shall be done immediately. But
think you that success is at all likely ?'
'It is all but certain.'
'And had Monteagle better be brought
to the house where Inez is confined ?'
'That you can use your own pleasure
in,' replied Jenkins.
Blodget reflected for a few moments.
'No,' he at last said, 'it shall not be
so at present ; I think it would be as well
not to let Inez know anything about it
for 'L shortatime.,
'Why so?'
'Why,' returned Blodget, 'in the first
place, the sudden shock might be attend-
ed with fatal consequences to her; and
in the next, I think it would be better to
break it out to her by degrees, and make
the circumstance subservient to my de-
signs upon her.'
'That is my opinion,' remarked Jen
kins. 'but you are a fool, Blodget, to de-
lay the indulgence of your desires so
long, when you have it in your power to
gratify them immediately.' If you wait
until you prevail upon the lady to con.'
sent. I think you will be likely to tarry a

long while.' ' That is your opinion ?'  tf
'It is.' y
' Mine is a different one.'
'You must have a very high opinion
of your powers of captivation, if that is
really your belief,' returned Jenkins. m
' Perhaps so,' said Blodget, ' but time tr
will show ; and now that I have the pros-
pect of getting. this fellow into my pow-
er, I am the more disposed to wait pa-
tiently and give my plans a fair trial.'m
'And wait until de Castro or his friends n
discover the retreat of the lady, force her
from your power, and bring you to pun-
ishment,' rejoined Jenkins.          s
'If Gordon is successful, there will be
no fear of that.'  ,.
Sd
' May be so; but you remember thev
old proverb-" a bird in hand is worth
two in the bush."'  .
' At any rate, I have made up my mind I
to run the chance of it.'
' Well, of course, you are at liberty to 1
do as you think proper,' observed the cap-
tain; but if you succeed in getting this
youngster in our power, where do youth
think of placing him ?'
'Know you of any person that can bel
trusted with him?'
'I do.'               -
' And does he reside far from  this
place?'
' Close upon the spot.'
'Is the place obscure?$'
' It is little frequented.'
'Apd who is he ?'
'One of my gang ; you may depend
upon him.'
''Tis well; and you think he will ac-
cept of the charge ?'
'I am  certain of it ; he would do it
gladly.'
'Perhaps you will see him and make

he proposal ; it would come better from
our lips than mine.'
' I will do so.'
'You have my thanks, captain.'
"Pshaw ! I don't want them. But,
nark now, he must be well paid for her
trouble, and keeping the secret.'
'I have no objection to that.'
'This will be an expensive job for you.'
'Were it to cost me twenty times as
nuch, I would not begrudge it to gratify
my revenge.'
'You are a most implacable foe.'
'So my enemies have good reason to
ay.'
'But come, there is no necessity for
delay ; have the letter written and for-
warded to Gordon as quickly as possible.'
'It shall be done.'
' In the meantime I will go down to
Kitson, and make the proposal to him.'
' Ay, do ; and do not be afraid to
promise a most liberal remuneration.
' I will do sy, depend upon it.'
'And when do you propose starting on
this expedition'
' By the night after to-morrow, at the
latest.'
'Your promptitude pleases me.'
'Delay is dangerous; that is always
my motto.'
'And a very good one ; I will adopt it
on this occasion; farewell.'
' Good night; although I shall proba-
bly see you again.'
'Well do, if you can, for I shall be
anxious to know whether or not this Kit-
son, as you call him, will undertake this
charge.'
'Oh, there is very little doubt but that
he will do so.'
Having arrived at the conclusion of
this brief colloquy, the two worthies sep-

OF SAN FRANCISCO.              178


174              MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

arated, and Blodget bent his way to th
ranch, to write the letter to Gordon
elated at the prospect of the-success o
his diabolical stratagems, and determine
at any expense, or danger to prosecute
them.
In the epistle he gave Gordon all th
information he couldrequire, and-highl)
praised his indefatigability, at the sam(
time encouraging him to further exer
tions, bythe promise of rewarding hin
accordingly.
The letter was immediately forwarded
to the proper quarter, and had not long
done so, when Jenkins returned..
'Well, captain, how have you suc
cedeed ' asked Blodget.
'As I anticipated.'
'Then the man is w illing.,
'lHe is.:'
'And think you we may depend upon
his secresy 1'
' There is no fear of that'!'
'Didyou not bind him by an oath I'
'There was no necessity for that ! Kit-
son's word is his bond.'
'And did you. make him acquainted
with the particulars '           .
' I was compelled to, to. enable him
to be. more upon his guard.'
'Ay, true ! And you mentioned the
reward ,?
'It is not so much as I anticipated,'
'What'is itI'
'He demands two hundred dollars.'
'It shall be his freely, immediately the
fellow is placed in.his care, one hundred
more to 'that, if he well perform his task,
and keeps the secret inviolable.'
'Itell you.-again, there is no fear of
his not doing that.'
r, Then all, sofar is well,? observed blod-
get.

o    'It shall be so ; and now we will have
a glass or two together, to drink success
)f to this undertaking.'
d    'With all my heart,' replied the cap-
e tain ; ' and taking his seat, bottles were
immediately placed upon the table, and
e they proceeded to drink with much alac-
Y rity, toast after toast following each other
e in rapid succession, while the deep. pota-
- tions which they quaffed, took but a
trifling effect upon them, so accustomed
were they to habits of intemperance.
'Perhaps,' said Blodget, after a pause,-
it would have been much mcre satis-
factory had Gordon succeeded in des-
patching him.'
'I like not the unnecessary shedding
of human blood.'
'Then you have never felt-the senti-
ments that I do.'
'You know not that ; but, villain as I
am, and have been from a boy, I never
yet shed the blood of my fellow man, un-
less it was in a fight and in self defence.'
'And yet you would have insisted up
on one of your fellows committing mur-
der, had not Gordon undertaken to do it.'
'Because I had pledged my word to
you that it should be done, and nothing
would have induced me to break it.'
'Ha! ha-! ha!' laughed out Blodgeb;
'there's honor for you, in the captain of
a desperate gang of robbers.'
'Ay you may mock me, if you think
proper, but I have spoken the truth.'
Blodget made no further observation,
but walked away, and Jenkins rejoined
his companions at their rendezvous.
In the meantime Inez' situation was
just as helpless as ever, and Bloclget dai-
ly continued to annoy her with import'

nities, and hourly became more bold and
confident in his manners towards her,
and she noticed it, and could not help
thinking that something had happened
to occasion this alteration in his beha-
vior, and at times her mind felt some
severe misgivings, which she found it im-
possible to comprehend. Blodget had
not, however, yet mentioned anything,
and, therefore, she could not entertain
any positive suspicion.
So well secured was every place, that
our heroine had long ago given up all
idea of escaping, and rested her only
hope of deliverance upon her friends dis-
covering her place of confinement ; but
a circumstance, a short time after this,
happened, which gave her some reason
to hope.
Notwithstanding the utter disgust
which our heroine ever evinced in the
company of the old woman, she persist-
ed in obtruding her society upon her at
every opportunity, and, as we have be-
fore stated, it was very evident that she
felt a pleasure in making Inez miserable.
Guilt is always envious of the virtues it
never possessed, and feels a delight in
evincing its hatred of its possessor in ev-
ery possible way. This, however, she
concealed from Blodget, well aware that
he would not approve of it, and Inez con-
sidered it too contemptible to take any
notice of it, and if she had, she would
not have troubled herself to mention it
to her persecutor, who might feel, little
disposed to trouble himself in the matter
The woman would make any excus
to be in the same room with our heroine
and when she was tired of talking to her
Ines seldom condescending her a reply
she would sing portions of vulgar song
is a manner which would have don
honor to Sydney Valley in its darkest

days. The mind of Ines, however, was
so fully occupied with her own thoughts
that she seldom paid any attention to
to her, and not unfrequently was she al-
most entirely unconscious of her pres-
ence.
It was one evening, a short time after
the events which we have been recording
had taken place, that the hag paid our
heroine her accustomed and unwelcome
visit, and, as soon as she entered the
room, Inez could perceive that she had
been drinking and was quite intoxicated.
This circumstance rather alarmed her, for
she was afraid that the old woman being
thus excited, might be guilty of some
excesses; but still she reflected, she had
nothing to apprehend from her, as the
persons who were in the ranch would be'
sure to come to her aid, and thus she
was in safety. But to be alone, and in
the power of wretches who cared not
what crime they committed, was suffi-
cient of itself to fill her mind with ter-
ror, and she had great difficulty in sup-
porting her feelings.
The old woman staggered to a seat,
for she could scarcely stand, and having
dropped into it, she raised her blood-shot
eyes towards the countenance of our he.
roine, and fixed upon her a look expres-
sive of her usual malevolence. Ines
averted her head, and, taking up a book,
l pretended to be reading ; but the old
t woman was not to be diverted that way,
e and, after several ineffectual attempts to
speak, she stammered out-
e   ' They are all gone out but one man,
, and he has fallen asleep by the fire, and
, so I thought I would come up stairs and
, keep you company, you are fond of my
s, company, I know.'
e   This speech was accompanied by sun-
at dry hiccups, and the disgusting old wo

p

OF SAN FRANCISCO,              175


178              MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

man rolled about in the chair apparently
in the most uncomfortable manner. Inez
trembled, but she endeavored to conceal
her fears as much as possible, and pre-
tended to be continuing to read the book
she held in her hand, and did not make
any reply.
'Mr. Blodget is a very foolish man,'
continued the old woman-' he is a very
foolish man, or he would not stand shil-
ly-shallying and dilly-dallying with you,
my fine lady, in the manner he has. Such
squeamish minxes, indeed ; poh!'
- We need not attempt to describe the
feelings of our heroine, while the old
woman was-thus proceeding ; she endea-
vored to close her ears to the words she
was giving utterance to, but in vain, and
the disgust which she felt was most ung
bounded.
4Why don't you answer me? ' de-
manded the beldame in a surly tone ; 'I
suppose you think yourself above me,
don'trou,? But I can tell you you are
not. You are a prisoner, but I am not,
and-
A very long yawn stopped the old
woman's tirade, and her head dropped
upon the table. She muttered two or
three incoherent words, and shortly after-
wards ber loud snoring convinced our
heroine that the effects of the liquor she
had been drinking had overpowered her,
and that she had fallen off to sleep.-
Inez laid down her book; a sudden
thought darted across her mind, and her
heart palpitated with emotion. She re-
membered what the woman had said
about there being but one man in the
house, and that he was asleep below.-
The room door was open-the old wo-
man slept soundly, and she was not-
likely to be awakened easily--a famous
opportunity presented itself for her to

attempt to make her escape. The chance
was worth encountering any danger in
making the effort, and she determined to
avail herself of it.
Hastily putting on her shawl, Inez
mentally invoked the assistance of Hea-
ven, and then, with noiseless footsteps,
approached the chair on which the old
woman was sitting, to make sure that she
was not assuming drunkenness and sleep,
and she was soon convinced that she was
not. She now lightly stepped on to the
landing, and closing the door gently up-
on the unconscious old woman, locked it
after her, and thus left her a secure pri-
soner. She then leant her head over the
bannisters, and listened attentively, but
hearing no noise below, she was in lope
that all was right, and ventured to begin
to descend the stairs.
Having passed down one flight, she
once more paused and listened attentive-
ly, but all remained as still as death, and
her hopes became more sanguine.
At length she reached the door of the
parlor, which was closed, and Inez hesi-
tated, and her heart beat so vehemently
against her side that she could scarcely
support herself.
'Courage, Courage!' she whispered to-
herself, ' this is the critical moment. Let
me be firm, and I may escape.'
Her trembling and hesitation decreas-
ed as these thoughts crossed her mind,
and she laid her hand on the handle of
the door. It opened with a creaking
noise, which again excited her fear, lest
it should arouse the man; but her alarm
was, fortunately groundless. A light
was burning on the table, and the fire
east forth a cheerful blaze, and by their
light our heroine beheld a ruffian seated
in the chair, his arms folded across his
chest, and fast asleep.

Inez's heart bounded, and hope was
strengthened tenfold. The near prospect
of liberty excited in her breast a feeling
of extacy which may be conceived but
cannot be described. The moon shone
brightly in at the window, and its silvery
beams seemed to smile encouragement
upon her. Another moment, she re-
flected, and she might inhale the pure
air, and be as free. The thought nerved
her on ; and knowing that every moment
was fraught with danger, she determined
to act with promptitude. But the sleep-
ing ruffian was so seated that she could
not gain the door without passing him
closely, and then she must act with the
greatest caution or she might arouse
him. She advanced one step, but hastily
retreated again, hearing him yawn, and
he seemed as if he was about to awaken
She stood in trembling suspense, but it
was. not for long ; the man having
stretched out his arms, and yawned two
or three times, sunk back on his chai
again, and his loud snoring soon con
vinced her that he was again asleep.
She now once more commended her
self to the protection of Heaven, an
again advanced towards the door. Sh
had passed the sleeping ruffian--th
door was in her hand, and liberty wa
just before her ; when there was a lou
noise, like that of some heavy weigh
falling, from the room above ; and Ine
was so alarmed that she had not th
power of moving one way or the othe
but stood at the door trembling violently
The noise immediately aroused th
man, and, hastily starting to his feet, I
rubbed his eyes, and stared eager
around the room. They instantly rested
on our unfortunate heroine, and, giving
utterance to a dreadful oath, he rush(
towards her, and seizing her fiercely t

the arm, dragged her back. Inez sunk
upon her knees, and in terrified accents
exclaimed-
' Oh, mercy, mercy ! spare me-save
me, for the love of Heaven, save me 1'
' Ah ! you would escape ?' exclaimed
the ruffian ; 'speak, answer me-how
did you contrive to leave the apartment
in which you have been confined 1'
The ruffian looked ferociously upon
her while he spoke, and Inez trembled
more violently than before when she
gazed upon the frightful features of the
man. Her lips quivered, and in vain
did she endeavor to articulate a syllable.
'Speak, I tell you again !' demanded
the villain ; 'how came you hither ?
By what means did you contrive to
leave the room?'
' The door was left unfastened,' faul-
tered out Inez'; 'oh, do not harm me.'
The door left unfastened?' repeated
the man ; ' who left it so?'
r   ' The woman.'
' Ah ! the old bag-if she has done
this she shall answer for it. But where
- is she?'
I    ' In the room I have just quitted, and
e asleep,' replied Inez.
e   ' Ah! I see how it is ; myself and her
s have been indulging ourselves rather too
d freely, and both are equally to blame ;
t we must be more cautious for the future.
z Come, my girl, you must allow me to es-
e cort you to your old quarters, and de.
r, pend upon it, you will not have such
r. another opportunity as this. Come!'
le   'Oh,' supplicated our heroine, not
ie thinking in the despair of the moment,
ly of the uselessness of appealing to the
ed flinty heart of the wretch, 'do not con-
ig sign me, I beseech you, to that dismal
ed apartment again, take pity upon me, a
by deeply injured woman as I am, and suffer

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                17't

I 'f


178              MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

me to escape. - Believe me, you shall be-
amply rewarded for such an inestimable
service.'
'Oh, no,' returned the ruffian and a
malignant grin overspread- his counte-
mance; 'it won't do,I'm not to de caught
in that way; I can very well understand
what, my reward would be, but they must
catch me before they give it me. Ha!
ha ! hatI Come, come, you must come
with me, or I must use force--that's all
about it.',
Poor Inez clasped her hands in the in-
tensity:of her grief, and finding that it
would be useless ,to entreat any further,
with a despairing heart, she slowly re-
traced her footstepsto the chamber from
which she had so recently escaped, fol-
lowed by the wretch.
On opening the door they found the
old woman stretched at full length upon
the floor; and it was-evident that it was
from her that the noise had proceeded,
which so unfortunately aroused the man,
and:prevented her escape, at the very
moment when the chance was before her.
It was some time before the thief could
arouse the old woman to sensibility, and
when she did so, he commanded her
sternly to follow'him.
'Hey day!' cried the hag, rubbing her
eyes, and looking ,with stupified amaze-
ment. at our heroine, who had sunk des-
pairingly in a chair, and leaning her el-
bow upon the table, and her head upon
her hand, was weeping bitterly; 'what's
the matter now ?'=
A What's the matter l' reiterated the
ahy, that 'through your infernal
stupidity the bird had nearly flown.'
'Ah--what, do you mean to say that
she had nearly escaped' croaked forth
the old womin andshelooked more sav-
age than ever at Inest:

'Yes, I mean to say that she would
have escaped,' replied he, ' and a pretty.
scrape we should then both have got in-
to.'

i

,f

' Why, where was I at the time!'
'Fast asleep, and a safe prisoner in this
room, locked in.'
' Locked in !' ejaculated the beldame,
'oh, I see it all now, that confounded
gin got the better of me, and you too, -I
think, and, therefore, one is as much to
blame as the other. We ought to thank
our lucky stars that it has turned out as
it has. But the artful jade, to lock me
in, to-to--'
' There, that's enough,' interrupted the
fellow, ' you would stand talking here all
night. We will leave the~lady "to her
own reflections, which, doubtless, will not
be very pleasant. Blodget will be home
shortly, I expect, and, should he find us
together, he might suspect something
wrong. Good night, my lady, and when
you next try to escape, you had better
use- a little more expedition with your
caution. Come, we must see and ar-
range this business somehow or anoth-
er.'
The old woman fixed upon Inez one
more malicious look, and appeared to ex-
ult in the agony she was undergoing at
having been thwarted in her attempt,
and then following the wretch, they both
quitted the room, and secured the door
after them.  -
They both congratulated themselves
when they had got below, that Inez had
not been successful, and were determined
to be more cautious in future. Another
moment, and our heroine would have
been at liberty, and they trembled when
they reflected upon the consegtae
that would have been certain to follow
her escape: They both, however, con-

sidered that it would be better for them
not to mention anything about it.to Blod-
get or the others, as it would only excite
his suspicions that all was not right, and
probably deprive them of his confidence
and friendship, which, as he was very
liberal, was not to be treated lightly.
Thus the affair was amicably arranged
between the two worthies, and- the old
spitfire determined to annoy our unfortu-
nate heroine more than ever, for the 'au-
dacious' (as she termed it) attempt she
had made to escape, and moreover, for
her unparalleled presumption and atroci-
ty, in having actually made her a prison-
er in the very place where she had been
herself confined.
As for poor Inez, she was completely
overwhelme' with the intensity of her
anguish and disappointment, and forsome
time after the man and the old woman
had left her, she remained in almost a
state of unconsciousness.
' Alas,' she at last ejaculated, beating
her breast, 'fate has conspired against
me, and I am doomed to perpetual mis-
ery. Am I never to escape from the
power of these wretches?  Has the Om-
nipotentBeing entirely forsaken me? Oh,
God ! let me die rather than live to en-
dure this succession of miseries and dis-
appointments.'
She clasped her burning temples, and
arising from her chair, traversed the room
in the greatest possible agony. If Blod-
get should become acquainted with the
circumstance, she could not help think-
ing that he would be induced to adopt
even more stringent measures towards
her ; but then she consoled herself with
the reflection that it was not likely that
the man or the old woman would let
him know anything about it, as they
would be blamed for neglect, and Blodget

OF SAN FRANCISCO. -                179

would deem it prudent to remove her to
some other place of confinement. She
passed two or three hours in the greatest
state of agitation, and could not venture
to retire to rest, but listened to the slight-
est sound which proceeded from below,
fearing to hear the villain Blodget return
home.
At length all was still in the house,
and tired out with thinking, Inez com-
mitted herself to the care of Providence,
and undressing herself, hastened into
bed, and, in spite of the state of her mind,
after the painful event which we have
been detailing, she was so weary, that it
was not long ere she sunk to sleep
CHAPTER XVII.
The Seducer Resisted.
Wa left our heroine in a calm slumber,
into which she had sunk after the fatigue
of thinking and the anguish of her mind.
She continued in it until a storm arose,
which awoke her, and jumping up in the
bed, she scarcely knew where she was.
Confused thoughts darted across her per-
turbed imagination, and she had in an
instant a foreboding, a presentiment, that
something particular was about to occur
to her. She heard no one but the old
woman moving below, and recollecting
that she had seen Blodget quit the house
at an early hour in the morning, she
thought it was probable that he had not
yet returned, and she became rather more
composed. Then, however, she remem-
bered some dark hints which the hateful
old woman had thrown out to her iin the
morning, and again were her utmost ap-
prehensions of some fresh misery excited,


.80              MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

pospetime she continued in this manner,
when she heard a confusion of voices
from  below, among which she distin-
guished that of a female and Blodget's,
but she could not understand a single
word that they gave utterance to.
Shp now endeavored to calm her feel-
ings, and prepare for the meeting which
'she had no doubt would take place be-
tween her and Blodget ; who she resolved
to meet with all the fortitude she could
possibly muster. She knelt down, and-
su1pplicated the aid of the Almighty ; and
implored that He would frustrate the de-
signs of the wicked, and not suffer her
to fall a victim to the diabolical strata-
gems of the miscreant who at present
held her in his power
As it ever is the case, when the sincere
heart breathes its prayers to Heaven, our
heroine felt, almost immediately more
tranquil and prepared to meet her op-
pressor, and she arose from her knees_
with a determination to support herself
with- an air of fortitude, which should
abash rather than encourage the villain's
nefarious hopes.
She hAd not long come to this resol.u-
tion, when she heard a footstep ascending
the stairs, and shortly afterwards the door
of. her apartment wasunbolted, and the
door was opened, and the object of her
hatred and her fears presented himself
" before her. She met his looks firmly,
and with an air of becoming dignity, and
it was evident, although he endeavored
t disguise it, that something of more
importance than usual occupied his
tlgoughts.
He stood for a second or two in the
doorway, and seemed anxious to address
her, yet at a loss how to begin.,Then he
semed-abashed at the calm dignity of-
Inez's manner, and at the same time Jost

in admiration of her extreme beauty,
which, although much impaired by the
ravages of care, was still most superla-
tive.
Notwithstanding the firmness which
she assumed, Inez felt a trembling appre-
hension of the interview ; and had much
difficulty in conquering her feelings.
At length Blodget advanced nearer to
our heroine, closing the door after him,
and after several. ineffectual attempts to
speak, he observed, in as insinuating
tone as he could assume-
' Beauteous Inez, after a temporary ab-
sence from your presence, which has ap-
peared an age to me, I again come to
bask in the sunshine of your beauty--
again to solicit a return of that passion
which I so ardently feel for you.'
' Villain !' ejaculated Inez, 'receive my
answer in the utter contempt, disgust,
abhorrence I feel for you; and rest as-
sured that no other feeling can ever in-
habit my breast towards a wretch who
has proved himself destitute of every
feeling of humanity.'
'this violence is useless,' returned
Blodget; 'I have given you plenty of
time to consider: 'this day I come hither
to decide : I have waited patiently long
enough.'
'Monster !' cried the distracted lady,
and her eyes at the same time beamed
an expression which seemed as if it would
penetrate to his soul; where is my poor
father, from whom you have so merciless-
ly torn me t   Can you recollect the
unparalleled act of cruelty you have been-
guilty of, and yet stand there and talk to
me, the affianced bride of another, about
love 1'
To all these passionate expressions I
pay little or no attention; for they affect
me not,' returned the hardened villain,

'It is enough that I have fixed my mind Is there any epithet strong enough
on you; I have labored hard, and risked that I can apply to a man like you ?' de-
much, to get possession of you-you are handed Inez. 'Has not your conduct
now in my power, and mine, in spite of proved you to be a miscreant, too-'
all entreaties and tears, shall be!'  'Come, come,' interrupted Blodget,
'Oh, heartless miscreant.'        and a slight scowl passed over his brows,
'Nay, think not that I would willingly ' I do not mind a little flattery, but when
resort to violence,' observed Blodget, in it proceeds to extremes. I must acknowl-
a milder tone of voice ; 'no, I would win edge that I have not a stomach to take
you by my actions ; by my love ;-I it. Any epithet that you may apply to
would be to you the most ardent and af- me, you must be aware cannot have any
fectionate companion that woman desire ; other effect than that of exasperating
I--'           .me to that which I might afterwards be
'Cease !' interrupted Inez, in a com- sorry for. But how can you be so fool-
manding tone of voice, which seemed to ish as to remain thus obstinately opposed
enforce immediate obedience; 'I will not to the wishes of a man who would
listen to your guilty language, it disgusts make it his unceasing study to render
me. Your presence makes me feel as if you happy?'
a fiend, instead of a human being, were  ' Happy !' exclaimed Inez, 'and dare
standing before me; begone ! arl leave you talk to me of happiness, when I am
me again to the solitude of my unjust torn from all that renders life desirable
confinement.                        Wretch, unnatural monster you must
'Not yet, fair Inez,' returned Blodget, think me, to be capable of listening to
with a supercilious smile ; 'you and I the licentious vows of a man who has
must not part until we understand each been the author of all my miseries!
other.'                             Talk to me of happiness, and keep me
' I perfectly understand you, sir,' said confined in this awful house, surrounded
Inez, ' and depend upon it, all that you only by the votaries of guilt, who would
can say will but add to the utter abhor- not hesitate to dye their hands in my
rence which I bear towards you.'    blood.'
'But you must yield !'              'They dare not; they act alone by
' Never l'                        my orders,' answered Blodget.  ' But
' How can you save yourself ?  Are why thus delay the time in conversing
you not in my power?'               on matters of no immediate interest?
' True ; but I have a friend in Provi- Again, Inez, I solicit your love. Say
dence who will not suffer me to fall a that you will be mine, all but that whieh
victim to the nefarious designs of a dia- the idle ceremony of wedlock can make
bolical villain like you.'          you, and there is not a pleasure which
' Upon my word you are very liberal gold can purchase, or this world supply,
with your compliments;' said Blodget, which you shall not have at your com-
with a half-sneering laugh, although it mand. We will hasten far from hence,
was very plain to be seen that he was and in a place where we are unknown,
very much chagrined at the manner in forget that there are others than our-
which our heroine addressed him.    selves in existence.'

11 OF SAN FRANCISCO.  181


182                    MYSTERIES A
Inez shuddered with horror at the cool-
ness and effrontery with which the liber-
tine uttered these expressions, and she
could scarcely believe that she was stand-
ing in the presence of a human being.
'Oh, no,' replied Blodget, 'think not
that I can be induced to leave you so
soon this day, at any rate. Upon your
determined answer your fate depends.'
'You have already had my answer,'
returned Inez.
'Will nothing persuade you to alter
it?' 1'
' Nothing, by Heaven !'
'Beware ! take not an oath !'-
'I can with safety, for nothing would
induce me to swerve from it.'
'You had better bethink yourself.'
'I have thought sufficiently, and I am
decided.''
' Recollect that, if you refuse, I shall
be compelled to resort to force.'
' I will die first.'
'You will not Save the means.'
'Almighty God surely,will never suffer
so black a deed.'
'-Bah ;--that is all idle cant. Think,
too, that if you refuse, you will still be
kept here a prisoner, deprived of every
comfort, and yet subservient to my
wishes.''
'Oh, horror . You cannot surely be
the monster P
'I would not willingly, but you wonid
drive me to it.'
'Oh, repent, repent!'
'Phaw ! Will that gratify my de--
sires $'
'It will afford me a far greater gratifi-
cation?
'I shall not try it.'
'Alas ! you are indeed a guilty mis-
creant.'

' Thank you, again, for your compli-
ment ; I have pointed out to you the
horrors that will attend your refusal ;
say, shall I point out to you the happi-
ness that will attend you, if you comply
with my request ?'
'I want not to hear them, they cannot
make any alteration in my determination,'
answered our heroine, covering her face
with her handkerchief, and sobbing aloud
with her disgusted and wounded feelings.
'Still must I think that you will change
your mind ; returned Blodget with the
same guilty expression of countenance in
which his features were almost constant-
ly clad-' remember the sweets of liberty
will then be your's.'
' And of what use would liberty be to
me, when it would be purchased by a
life of infamyI' demanded Inez; 'could
anything ever reconcile it to my con-
science, to become the base paramour of
a guilty being like you?  The bare
thought fills me with a sensation of the
utmost dread, and death in its most hor-
rible form would be preferable to such a
course of.life.'
'But is there nothing that could pre-
vail upon you ?'
'Nothing;' answered Inez, with a look
of the greatest disgust and horror.
'Think again '
'I have nothing more to say upon the
detested subject.'
'If, by so doing, you could purchase
the life of Monteagle--'
'Ah 1' grasped forth Inez, turning
deadly pale, and clutching the arm ;of
Blodgett and with distended eye-lids ;--
' what mean you ?  Speak I speak f-
I know you have something of aparticu-
lar nature to impart to me I Reveal it I
I beseech you, and keep me not in sus-

I

pense I-Oh, Blodget if you have indeed
any regard for my feelings, tell me,
what of MonteagleI'
'Calm your feelings.!'
'You rack me!'!
'Compose yourself!'
'Talk not to me of composure ' shriek-
ed Inez.
'He is in my power,'
Poor Inez tried hard to speak, but
she could not ; she was transfixed to the
spot, and gazed upon Blodget with a
look in which the greatest astonishment
and horror were depicted. The an-
nouncement of Blodget came like a
thunderbolt upon her, and her faculties
seemed to be all bound up in the sudden-
ness and unexpectedness of the circum-
stance.
'If you are not a monster of the black-
est dye,' exclaimed Inez at length, 'you
will not delight in thus harrowing my
feelings! but tell me have-you spoken
the truth ? Do not keep me in suspense!1
Oh, do not ! Have you indeed said that
which is true?9'
'I have,' answered B!odget ;-' Mont-
eagle is now in my power.'
'Are you bent to drive me mad ?' ex-
claimed the frenzied Inez, as, with clasp-,
ed hands, she gazed vehemently and sup-
plicatingly in the countenance of herI
oppressor.
'No, no ! I would restore you to hap-
piness,' replied Blodket.
' Happiness l' groaned Inez; ' oh, cruel
mockery to talk to me thus; and to con-
tiuue to keep me in this state of agony
and suspense.'
'Compose yourself,' again remonstrat-
ed Blodget, in a gentler tone, than he
had before spoken, and at the same time
venturing to approach her closer ; 'com-

.
f
gs
Y

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

pose yourself. Consent to my wishes,
and Monteagle shall at once be free.-
Refuse he dies !'
' Never, miscreant.' cried Inez, and
fell powerless to the floor.
Blodget was alarmed,-so still and
marble-like did the fair girl lie. No mo-
tion of her white bosom gave the slight-
est evidence that she breathed.
The villain trembled, and for an in-
stant remorse touched his heart. But
no sooner did a slight convulsive shudder
show that she still lived, than he turned
and left the apartment.
Blodget sent the old woman to Ines,
who succeeded in restoring her to con-
sciousness.
The next morning Jenkins returned.
He seemed in haste.
Sending for several members of his
gang he was soon engaged in earnest
conversa ion.
'Gordon, say not a word to Blodget,'
said Jenkins.
'Should he try to escape I' said Gor-
don.
' Shoot him, as you would a mad cay-
otte,' said Jenkins.
' Had we not best confine himI'
'No,-wait my return. He will prob-
ably send for Kay, Maretzo, and others
of his old cronies. If he tries to bribe
one of you to take a message for him to
them affect to be won over by his gold,
carry the message for him, and then
hasten to me at the Mission.'
'But where are you to be found, cap-
tain ?'
'Joaquin will inform you of my where-
abouts.'
'But, captain, why do you wish Kay
and the rest of them to be engaged is
this affair !'

AND MISERIES

18


185

MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

' In order that they may be captured as Alice,had seen some seventeen springs,
in the actual commission of a daring the apple-blossoms of which were not
crime-as they will doubtless hasten to more beautifully tinted than her fair
assist Blodget to carry off the lady.'  cheeks ; nor their skies a deeper blue
Jenkins then visited Blodget.    than her love-lit eyes. Her form was per.
To the great surprise of Blodget, Jen- fect-her step light and springy as an
kins instead of greeting him with friend- antelope's. Her name was Alice Hewlett,
ly warmth, rejected his proffered hand, and she was known in the neighborhood
and addressing him sternly, said: ' I am as 'the Squatter's Daughter.' She had
about to leave this place for a few days, heard of a lady's being being confined
if during my absence you insult Miss in Gordon's house, and readily availed
Inez by word or look, or ever approach herself of the request of Jenkins to be
the rooms she occupies, you shall as sure- the fair captive's companion, until she
ly die as my name is Jenkins!' Then could be restored to her friends.
turning to a young girl, who had accom-  Alice immediately went to Inez.
panied him to the house, the robber-cap-  'My dear young lady, I come to stay
tain addressed her thus: 'Alice, you will with yo.u.'
I know do all you can to make this poor  Inez gazed inquiringly upon her fair,
young lady as happy as possible while I ingenuous face.
am away. I do not promise you any re-  'You may safely trust me, Miss.'
ward, for I know your own goodness of  'I do--I do-dear girl. Vice never
heart has induced you to volunteer to be wore so fair a front.'
her friend and companion.'            ' Lady, I will not leave you, but at
Jenkins then gave the old woman in- your request.'
structions to obey Alice on every point,  'Oh, thanks, thanks. You know not
and whispering a few words to Gordon what a load you've taken from my sad
Jenkins left the apartment, and soon af- heart.'
ter the house.                        Jenkins went to the old crone, and
Blodget was astounded at this change gave her some directions, adding sternly
in the behavior of Jenkins, and concluded ' Mind and do as I have told you!'
that he had informed upon him, and thus  The old womad muttered an obedi-
made his own peace with the authorities. enceto his orders, and he immediately
He was confirmed in this, when he went quitted the room.
to step from the house, for Gordon step-  He had not been gone many minutes,
ped up to him, and placing a revolver at when she retired to her own little closet,
his breast, threatened to shoot him if he where she always had a bottle or two of
crossed the threshold. Finding an at- ' the best,' and was soon in a fair way to
tempt to escape would only lead to his enjoy herself, and to become entirely un-
instant death, Blodget determined during concious of all that was taking place; and
Jenkins' absence to consummate his in- Blodget hailing the so long-looked for op-
tentions on Inez, and then devise some portunity with pleasure, he ascended the
mode of gaining Gordon to allow him to stairs on tiptoe, and having reached the
escape.                            rooms appropriated to the use of Inez, he
The girl whom Jenkins had addressed knocked.

-184

1

Alice, probably thinking it was .the
woman, quickly opened the-door, but
started back with no little amazement,,
when she beheld the villain Blodget.-
He instantly stepped into the room, and
Inez hearing the exclamation which Al-
ice had given utterance to came from her
room, but on seeing Blodget, she turned
very pale, and trembled so violently that
she could scarcely prevent herself from
sinking on the floor.
The forbidding features of Blodget re-
laxed into a smile, which he meant to be
one of kindness, but he could not con-
ceal his exultation, and the guilty pas-
sions that raged like a tempest within his
bosom, and turning to Alice, he said, in
an authoritative tone-
'Leave the room.'
Alice hesitated, and looked at our her-
oine.
'Do you hear?' demanded Blodget, in
a louder tone;-' begone, I've something
to say to this lady, which must not mee
your ear.'
'You should have nothing to say to
me, sir, which should be kept a secret
from a second person. Alice, I desire you
to remain where you are ; Mr. Blodge
can have uo authority for obtruding hi:
hateful presence upon one whom he ha
already so deeply,so irreparably injured
Do not depart, Alice !-I desire you?'
'These mandates are of no avail,' crie(
Blodget ; ' I have long sought this inter
view, and I will not now be foiled. Be
gone, I say!'
'I'll remain where I am, sir, while it i
the wish of the lady,' returned Alice, in
firm tone.
'Ah !' exclaimed Blodget ; his eyes ex
pressive of fierce anger, 'dare you?-
Then you must go by force.'
Immediately seizing Alice, as he spoke

OF SAN FRANCISCO,

by the shoulders, he pushed her violent-
ly from the room, and closing the door,
locked it, preventing her return. He
advanced towards Inez, who, up6n the
impulse of the moment, was in the act
of retreating to her chamber, and fast-
ening herself in, when the villain sprang
quickly forward, and .seizing her vehe-
mently by the arm, he drew her back.
'Unmanly ruffian!' cried Inez, 'un-
hand me, or my cries shall reach the
ears of those who will punish you for
your boldness and cruelty! What is the
meaning of this savage outrage?'
'It means, fair Inez,' replied Blodget,
forcibly throwing his arm around her
waist, and drawing her towards him,
'that, finding I have too long been a for-
bearing fool, when I had you in my pow-
er, I am determined that I will no long-
er wait for the gratification of my wish-
es. I have condescended to sue to you,
where I might long since have enforced
t your compliance; I have made you eve-
ry reasonable proposal, and have submit-
ted patiently to your scorn, and contemp-
t tuous rejection of my suit, but I am now
roused to a full sense of my folly, and am
t determined at all hazards, that you shall
s be minel'
s   'Brutal monster!' exclaimed Inez, vio-
- lently struggling ; for the expressions of
Blodget, and his determined demeanor,
d filled her with the utmost terror-' are
- you not satisfied with probably having
- murdered my unfortunate father, and in-
flicted upon me a series of miseries al-
s most unparallelled in the annals of inhu-
a vanity, but that you would now add to
your barbarity by so atrocious a crime as
- you threaten ? Oh, help ! help I-Holy
Virgin, I call upon thee for thy protec-
tion !-Oh, save me ! save me !'
As the distracted and terrified lady


186              MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

thus screamed, she struggled violently
to extricate herself from the embraces of
the ruffian Blodget, but her efforts were
for some time entirely ineffectual, and
with every endeavor she made, the pas-
sions of Blodget increased, and his cheeks
glowed and his eyes flashed with the
guilty desires that raged within his
breast. He sought, however, to stifle
her cries, but in vain.
'Nay,' he cried, ' you scream for help
in vain ; there is no one at hand to in-
terpose to save you ! The triumph so
long protracted, now is mine ! This
hour; this very moment gives you to
my arms!'
'Almighty God ! protect me ! save
me ?' again shrieked our heroine, in the
most frantic accents, and, with a des-
perate effort she released herself from
Blodget's hold, and retreated to the far-
ther end of the apartment, where, on a
table, was a knife. Scarcely knowing
what she did, she snatched it up, and, as
Blodget approached towards her, she
flourished it menacingly, and exclaimed:
'Villain ! advance but an inch towards
me, and this knife shall stretch me a
bleeding corpse at your feet!'
Blodget was completely staggered by
the determined air which Inez assumed,
and he was transfixed to the spot where-
on he stood, not knowing what course to
pursue.
Our heroine still flourished the knife
menacingly, and kept the villain at bay.
'You see I am resolute,' she cried ;
' and, by Heaven, sooner than I will be
dishonored, I will put my threat into ex-
ecution !  Death is preferable to the
dreadful, the disgusting fate which you
have threatened me. Nay, nothing can
move me from my purpose! Quit the
room, miscreant; unless you-would have

my death to answer for, in addition to
your other numerous crimes !'
'Inez,' ejaculated Blodget, offering to
approach her ; 'hear me !'
'Not a word,' firmly replied Inez ; 'no-
thing whatever can shake my resolution;
begone!
At that moment a loud noise was
heard at the chamber door, and imme-
diately afterwards the voices of several
persons.
Blodget turned pale and trembled.
'Ah I' he ejaculated.
' Open the door, or it will be worse
for you,' now demanded the voice of
Gordon.
'Never!' cried Blodget, desperately,
and placing his back against it as he
spoke.
'Then we must use force,' returned
Gordon ; 'now, lads, your aid.'
In an instant the door was burst open,
and Gordon, followed by three rough-
looking men, entered the room.
'Seize him, my lads; and bear him
hence I' cried Gordon, and in a moment
the men rushed upon Blodget, who made
a desperate resistance, but was quickly
overpowered, and was conveyed, strug-
gling, swearing, and foaming at the
mouth, from the room, and being drag.
ged to one of the dark vaults under-
ground, was, by the orders of Gordon,
locked in, and left to his own reflections,
the nature of which may be readily con-
jectured, but cannot be properly described.
Alice, immediately on being thrust
out of the room by Blodget, had hasten.
ed below, where, ascertaining that Gor-
don was from home, although it was
very reluctantly that the old woman fur-
nished her with the information, she
made the best of her way to the cabaret,
where she fortunately found him, in

company with the men before mentioned,
and having informed him of the perilous
-situation of our heroine, he left the place,
and, as has been shown, arrived just at
the critical juncture, to save her from
destruction.
Blodget had no sooner been forced
away from the room, than our heroine,
overpowered by her feelings, and the unu-
sual excite ent she had undergone, faint-
ed, and Alice Hewlet was once more left
alone with her, and immediately set
about the means of restoring her sensi-
bility.
It would be impossible to pourtray
correctly the disappointment and ungo-
vernable rage of Blodget, when he found
himself not only foiled in his diabolical
attempt, but made a prisoner in that
gloomy vault. He raved; he stormed ;
he cursed and swore, and breathed the
most fearful maledictions against Alice,
Gordon, and Jenkins. Then he made
the place re-echo again with his cries to
be released, but the hollow reverbera-
tions of that subterranean place, were
the only answers he received, and he
traversed the limited space in which he
was confined, in a state bordering upon
madness. He now at once saw that he
was caught, trepanned, defeated, and all
his well laid schemes rendered abortive,
and himself left entirely at the mercy of
Jenkins and his associates, and when he.
recollected the threats which the former
had held out to him, if he should make
any attempt against the peace of Inez,
during his absence, he felt that he had
every reason to apprehend the most ter-
rible consequences through his mad im-
petuosity. All the horrors of an igno-
minous death rushed upon his mind, and
his anguish was so great, that he com-
pletely sunk under it. He crouched

down in one corner of his cell, and be-
came the image of despair. It appeared
as though his career of guilt was fast
drawing to a close, and, that fate had
destined, that every attempt he should
in future make should be frustrated.
In this state he remained for more
than two hours, without any one ap-
pearing to interrupt him, when he heard
some one unbolting the door of his cell,
and immediately afterwards it was thrown
back on its hinges, and Gordon, accom-
panied by one of the men who had been
his companions in the seizure, entered.
He brought with him a stone pitcher,
containing water and a loaf, which he
placed on the ground, and then eyed
Blodget with a rook of the most malig-
nant exultation.
Blodget sprang to his feet; fury gleam-
ing in his eyes, and advancing towards
Gordon, he cried, in a hoarse voice
'Dastard!-why am I thus seized and
made a prisoner in this dismal place?4'
'Recollect your recent conduct,' said
Gordon coolly, ' and you are answered.'
' And what authority has either he or
you for detaining me?$' demanded Blod-
get.
' Upon that point I dare say you will
be satisfied at a future time,' returned
Gordon, in the same deliberate and care-
less tones.
'But you will not dare detain me?'
'That has to be proved.'
'Villain ! you will have to answer
dearly for this,' said Blodget.
' Previous to which,' retorted Gordon,
ironically, 'you will probably be called
to a slight account for the abduction and
unlawful detention of the lady, also for a
certain crime since, and -'
'Confusion!' interrupted Blodget ;-
am I then placed in the power of every

OF SAN FRANCISCO.               187


MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

wretch?$ Oh, Jenkins ! Jenkins ! for this,
my heaviest malediction light upon your
head.'
'Trusting that you may soon feel at
home in your new apartment,' said Gor-
don, with a most provoking grin, ' I will
now leave you to the enjoyment of it.
Come on.'
And thus saying, before Blodget could
give utterance to another syllable, al-
though his looks evinced the torturing
feelings of chagrin, disappointment, and
resentment he was undergoing, Gordon
and his companion quitted the cell, and
slammed and bolted the door after them,
.leaving Blodget involved in utter dark-
ness, for they had not supplied him with
a lamp.
Blodget threw himself on the hard
ground, and-he groaned aloud with the
agony of his feelings, but his present suf-
ering was nothing compared with the
horrors of anticipation, and he dreaded
the return of Jenkins, fearing .that the
terrible result would be that which he
promised him.
Three days and nights passed away in
this manner, and Blodget was still kept
a prisoner in the subterranean vault, and
was daily visited by Gordon, who .came
to bring him his scanty allowance of pro-
visions, and to taunt him with his de-
graded and altered situation. The un-
happy wretch was at length completely
subdued in spirit, and was incapable of
answering the ruffian, and he was at last
so humbled as to entreat Gordon's mercy,
and to pray that he would release him
from his present place of confinement
to one less dismal. This request, how-
ever, Gordon only treated with scorn and
derision; so true it is that none feel
greater pleasure than the guilty in tor-
turing one another. Although Blodget

had never given the ruffian the least
cause for offence, but, on the contrary,
according to his own admission, had lib-
erally rewarded him for the nefarious ao
tions in which he had employed him, he
now felt the most savage delight in add-
ing to his misery as much as possible ;
and the more he saw him suffer, and the
more humbled he was, the greater did
he exult. He had no doubt he should
receive great praise, and something far
more substantial from Jenkins for the
manner in which he. had acted, and he
anticipated his return with much impa-
tience. . He was not made thoroughly
acquainted with Jenkins' intention as re-
garded Inez, but he had not the least
doubt it was to restore her to her friends,
and he imagined he would ensure from
them a rich reward, in which he also
expected to become a sharer to no small.
amount for the services he had rendered.
How far his expectations -were realized,
will be seen anon.
When our heroine had quite recovered
from the shock which she received from
the behavior of the villain Blodget, she
returned her most heartfelt thanks to the
Almighty for her preservation, and for
the fortitude with which she had been
imbued to resist him. She then expres-
sed her warmest acknowledgments to
Alice, to whose presence of mind in
hastening for the aid of Gordon, she
might, in a great measure, attribute her
preservation. The conduct of Gordon,
who, there could not be the least doubt,
acted entirely by the orders of Jenkins,
left her no longer any room to doubt but
that the latter was really the friend and
protector he had told her was, and now
that Blodget was thrust into confinement,
from which they were assured he would
not be released until the return of the

188

t

captain, our heroine felt that she was
safe.
'What ready means guilt often un-
thinkingly takes to defeat its own de-
signs:' observed Alice ; 'Blodget thrust-
ing me out of the room, was the very
cause of bringing about his own confu-
sion, and frustrating his evil intentions ;
for, had he placed me in another room,
and confined me therein, he might easily
have silenced the old woman, had she
been inclined to oppose him, and thus he
would have been almost certain to have
obtained his object.'
'Oh, no,' returned Inez, 'my mind
was made up ; never did I feel more de-
termined, and he perceived it; I would
have plunged the knife to my heart, soon-
er than he would have triumphed in his
disgusting and diabolical purpose 1'
' Oh, Miss,' said Alice, ' the idea of
that makes me shudder with horror !
Heaven be praised, that preserved you
from such a dreadful and untimely end.
But the wretch will no doubt be amply
punished for his crimes, and for all the
sufferings that he has inflicted upon you.
. 'And how think you that Jenkins will
dispose of him?' interrogated Inez.
'Deliver him up to the Vigilance Com
mnittee,' replied Alice.
'How can he do so without getting
himself into trouble ?'
' Oh, there is no doubt but that he wil
readily hit upon a plan,' said Alice ; 'I
dare say that he has already arrange
that, without knowing anything of th
late circumstance. Clear up, Miss, fo
depend upon it, your troubles are fas
drawing to a close, and not many day
will elapse ere you will be again restore
to your friends.'
' Alas,' ejaculated Inez, tears gushin
to her eyes, 'perhaps I have no dea

friends to receive me ! Oh, how my poor
heart chills at the thought.'
' Pray, Miss,' said Alice, ' do not en-
courage fears which, after all, may prove
unfounded. Great, no doubt, as has
been the sufferings of Monteagle and your
father, I firmly believe that they are still
living, or Jenkins and the others would
have heard of it.'
' My unhappy lover may have been
able to withstand the severity of his
accumulated and unparalleled calamities,'
observed Inez ' but, my poor father ; oh,
well am I convinced that his mind must
have now become a wreck, in which
case, it would be a mercy if the Almighty
should be pleased to take him to Him-
self. Peor grey-haired old man, fondest
of parents, best of human beings, shall I
ever again be enfolded to thy paternal
bosom, with the conviction That thou art
conscious it is thy poor persecuted daugh-
ter thou dost embrace ?-Alas ! I fear
never l'
'Oh, yes, Miss, you will,' ejaculated
Alice, energetically, ' Heaven in its infin-
ite mercy will not deny you such a bless-
l ing after the many afflictions you have
so undeservedly undergone. Have you
not every reason to place the firmest re-
liance upon its goodness, after the man-
ner in which you have ever been preserv-
ed in the moment of the most imminent
l danger?$'
I    'Yes, my good girl,' replied our hero-
d ine, drying her tears, ' indeed I have, and
e it is ungrateful in me thus to give way to
r despair. But my mind is so continually
t tormented, that I scarcely know what I
s am saying.'
d    'At any rate,' observed her companion,
' now that Blodget is made a prisoner
g you may rest yourself secure, and Jen-
ir kins, I dare say, will not be long before

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

189


191

MYST&amp; IES AND MISERIES

he returns; whenyou will speedily be
made acquainted with intentions, which,
as I have all along predicted, depend up-
on it, will be all in your favor.'
The ideas of Alice were too reasonable
to be rejected by Inez, and she looked
forward to the return of Jenkins with the
greatest anxiety.
A fortnight had noga waned away, and
still Jenkins and his companions did not
return, and Gordon, who did not expect
that they would be gone so long, was.
fearful lest some accident should have be.
fallen them. He still kept the wretched
Blodget confined-in the same place, and
ne now became the -complete victim of
despair. His form had wasted away, and
his countenance betrayed the deep, the
intense agony which perpetually tortured
his mind. How dreary were the days
ard nights passed in that dark cell, where
he had nothing to commune but his own
dreadful thoughts, and were the horror'
of his own guilty conscience constantly
brought to his imagination the many
crimes he had committed. Conjecture
cannot form but a weak picture of the
mental sufferings of that man of crime.
Oh, who would be guilty, did they but
think upon the horrors that must sooner
or later overtake them --For the gratifi-
cation of some moment of sensual pleas-
ure; for .the transitory indulgence of
some ambitious wish, the unhappy wretch
falls into crime, to pay for it by years of
mental suffering, and ignominious death,
and an eternity of torment !--Oh, how
fearful the price, would but erring mor-
tals pause and think !
It was on a stormy midnight,.vhen
nearly three weeks' had elapsed since Sen-
kins had left, when a party who were in
company-with Gordon in the little back
room, smoking, were suddenly aroused

by hearing a shrill whistle. The cigars
were removed from their lips in an in-
stant, and they jumped hastily to their
feet.
'Jenkins's signal, by all that's fortu-
nate;' exclaimed Gordon, advancing to-
wards the door, 'they have come back
at last, and all safe, I hope!'
' This has, indeed, been a long trip
captain,' said Gordon 'and I had began
to fear that you were never going to re-
turn.'
' Better late than never,' answered
Jenkins; 'but how is all at the house?'
'Quite safe, captain,' replied Gordon,
with a peculiar grin, ' the lady is in her
own apartments with her companion, Al-
ice, and that arrant scoundrel Blodget,
confined in one of the vaults underneath,
where he has been since two or three
days after your departure.'
' Ah !' exclaimed Jenkins, 'has he then
dared to scorn the warning that I gave
him? ,'
Gordon briefly related what had taken
place between Blodget and our heroine.
' Why, the damned villain !' cried Jen-
kins, passionately ; 'after the strict in-
junctions which I laid upon him, and
knowing that he was placed entirely at
my mercy. But he shall pay dearly for
it; his doom is sealed.'
' I did not know whether you would
approve of the lodging I had given the
fellow,' answered Gordon.
' You have acted perfectly right,' said
Jenkins ; ' and I commend you for what
you have done. Blodget shall quickly
have another berth, and his career he
may reckon at an end. And is the lady
quite well?'
Gordon answered in the affirmative.
'I am happy to hear that,' said Jen-
kins ; 'she shall not much longer remain

190

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

in the position she. is now placed in.-  At length he withdrew the bolts, and
Poor lady, I shall for ever regret having entered the cell. The dim light which
been instrumental in any way towards was emitted by the lamp which Jenkins
her unhappiness; but I knew not who carried, could but faintly penetrate the
she was, or the villain Blodget should gloom of the miserable place, so that
not have retained possession of her. Blodget did not at first perceive who it
However, his time of shame is fast ap- was that had entered, and no doubt, did
proaching, and bitterly will he have to not think that it was any one else than
pay for all.'                        Gordon ; and the robber stood contem-
' It is, then, your intention to restore plating him for a minute or two in si-
the lady to liberty?9' asked Gordon.  lence, but resentment was strongly por-
'Certainly,' answered Jenkins, ' and to trayed in his countenance.
her friends.'                         'So, villain,' he at length said,t you
'But you will run a great risk in so have dared to brave my threats, to dis-
doing, will you not?9'               obey my injunctions, and have again of-
'No; leave me alone for that ; I have fered to---o'
arranged everything in my own mind,'   He was interrupted by a loud excla-
said Jenkins.                       mation from Blodget, who, upon recog-
But how do you propose to dispose nizing his voice, sprangforward, andin
of Blodget?' inquired Gordon.       the most abject manner knelt at Jenkins's
' I have not exactly made up my mind, feet, and looked up in his face with the
although I did threaten him with death,' most earnest supplication.
answered Jenkins.- ' To-morrow night,  'Oh, Blodget,' he cried, in the most
or the next, I shall convey the scoundrel impressive tones ; 'spare me ;-pity me ;
far away from hence.'                -pardon me !--I will own my guilt ;-
'You would not deprive him of life ?' I will acknowledge I was wrong; but let
' No,' replied Jenkins, 'not by my own the agony I have for the last fortnight
hands ; besides it would be a pity to de- endured in this place satisfy you, and do
prive the hangman of a job.'         not, oh, do not proceed to extremities.t
Gordon did not return any answer to  Jenkins fixed upon him a look of the
this, for when he recollected the crimes utmost contempt, as he replied :
of which he had himself been guilty, he ' And have you, then, the effrontery to
thought that it was not all unlikely that crave pardon, after setting all my injunc-
he should himself afford employment for tions at defianceI I gave you sufficient
that functionary, sooner or later.   warning of what the consequences would
In the morning early, the robber cap- be, did you not obey me ; you have
tai was traversing his way along the scorned it, and those consequences you
vaulted passages, and at length stopped must abide by.'
at the door of the vault in which Blod-  ' No, no ;' groaned the poor terrified
get was confined. There he paused and wretch, still remaining on hisdknees, and
listened, for he could not help feeling icoking the very picture of death, with
that he was only justly punished for the the excess of his fears ; 'you will not
part he had played towards the unfortu- surely do as you say?-You will not
nate Inez and her friends,           deliver me up to justice ?-Consign me


102                   MYSTERIES AND MISERIES         -
to an ignominious and violent death ! soon after he had entc
Pause ere you do so !-My death will ter quitted the place
avail you nothing. Suffer me therefore was confined.
to live to repent, and I promise you that  Gordon, without o
neither Inez or her friends shall receive ation, hastened to do
any further annoyance from me!'      quickly returned with
'I will take especial care that they do affirmative.  Jenkin
not ;' returned Jenkins with a sarcastic stairs, and knocking
grin.                       -        ushered into the prese
'My life will at any time be in your  He paused at the d
hands,' added the poor, trembling cow- our heroine with an
ard ; 'should I again break my word, respect, and he was al
Jenkins, I beg of you, I supplicate to admiration of Inez's b
you, in the most humble manner do not had become flushed ix
doom me yet to death !'              hearing the message
'Despicable scoundrel!' ejaculated Jen- her heart palpitated v
kins; so dead to the sufferings of others; side with rekindled h(
and yet so fearful of suffering himself.  ' Miss,' at last obse
Wretch ! you deserve to die the death respectful tone of v
of a dog, and you will do so.'       doubt suffered much
Blodget groaned and covered his face from the part which
with his hands.                      nately enacted in the
'Prepare yourself to depart from here your enemy, Blodget.'
in my custody to-morrow night,' said   'Our heroine atter
Jenkins, as he moved towards the door she was too much con
of the cell.                         Jenkins continued,
'Whither, Jenkins, and for what pur- 'I am now,' howeve
pose? Oh, tell me ! tell me !' intreated all the reparation in
Blodget, his whole frame violently con- storing you to liberty
vulsed with the power of his emotions. Inez uttered an excl
Jenkins, looked at him for a moment in delight and gratitude,
silence, and then replied,-          at the feet of Jenki
' You will know soon ; at present I tears gushed from her
shall leave you to form your own con-  ' Oh, thanks ! tha
jectures, and to ask your conscience what this-,'
ought to be your destiny.'             Jenkins interrupte(
'Stay, Jenkins, I beseech you!' cried raised her from his kr
the unfortunate prisoner, in delirious ac- -'Nay, my dear lady
cents; but Jenkins had immediately not your thanks; foi
quitted the cell, and securing the door not been for a certain
was quickly far out of hearing.      cident made, I might
'Inquire whether Miss Inez will do me interest in your fate.'
the favor to grant me an interview,' said 'A discovery!' repe
Jenkins, addressing himself to Gordon, look of astonishment.

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                   193

ered the parlor, af-
in which Blodget
offering any observ-
as he was bid, and
an answer in the
s then hurried up.
at the door, was
nce of Inez.
oor, and bowed to
air of the utmost
together lost in the
eauty. Her cheeks
immediately on her
from Jenkins, and
iolently against her
hopes.
rve Jenkins, in a
oice ; 'I have no
in your opinion,
I at first unfortu-
plot against you by
mpted to reply, but
fused to c1o so, and
r, anxious to make
my power, by re-
and your friends !'
amation of mingled
and instantly sunk
ns, and while the
eyes, she sobbed :
nks ! kind sir, for
d her, and gently
ees..
,' he said, 'I merit
r, probably, had it
discovery I by ac-
still have taken no
heated Inez, with a

Ay,' answered the captain; ' that you
are the daughter of one who once be-
friended me.'
'Know you then my dear father ?'
'Lady,' answered Jenkins, in peculiar
accents, 'I have reason to know him, to
be unceasing in my gratitude towards
him.'
'Oh, say, does he still live ?'
'He does !'
Heaven receive my thanks !' cried
our heroine, fervently, clasping her
hands, and raising her eyes.
'Miss de Castro, I will at once inform
you the nature of the kindness your fa-
ther did me, and you will then see why
from being the accomplice and abetter of
Blodget, I have become his enemy and
your friend. Some three years since, I
crossed the plains from Missouri. By
the time we had crossed the mountains
our teams had given out-our provisions
were exhausted-and many of our peo-
ple dead. It was at this time that your
father, with a party met, with, us, and
not only aided us with mules and provi-
sions, but remained several days attend-
ing my children who were prostrated by
fever. It was only during my last visit
to the Mission that I met your father and
learned that his name was de Castro, and
that you were his child. I managed to
have word conveyed to him that his
daughter was safe, and would soon be re-
stored to his arms. I have now hastened
here to   carry you back, and devise
means to give Bludget up to Justice.
-This cannot be done so speedily or easily
as I could wish, for the villain is master
of too many secrets involving perhaps
the lives of members of my band, for me
to proceed rashly in the matter. Mean-
while be cheerful, Alice will remain with

you, and in a few days you will be with
your father.'
Inez fervently thanked Jenkins, and
throwing herself on her knees poured
out her fervent thanks to that power that
had shielded her from outrage worse than
death.
CHAPTER VIII.
THE scene we are now about to de-
scribe was in a room of a hotel; the
time, five o'clock in the morning-the per-
sons present were Belcher Kay, Maretzo,
and two or three other noisy and dissi-
pated revellers, whose flushedscounten-
ances, blood-shot eyes, and other equally
striking  symptoms, showed    plainly
enough that they had been 'making a
night of it.'
Kay and the Italian appeared to be
the most sober of the company, not that
their potations had been less deep or fre-
quent than their companions, but that
constant practice had so inured them to
the wine cup, that it was long ere they
showed any ill-effects from it.
They certainly were particularly noisy
and merry, and their companions lent
their aid to the conviviality, by knocking
down everything the aforesaid said or
did, in the most tumultuous manner.
One individual, in the classic language
of the drunkard, was ' quite done up,'
and was stretched at full length upon the
floor, under one of tables, with his hat
for a pillow, and a portion of the carpet
for a coverlid ; and every now and then
he added to the general tumult by a
loud snore of the most hoggish descrip-
tion.
The proprietor of the hotel had seve-


194             MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

ral times requested the party to break up,
but as the said party threatened to break
his head instead, if he interfered with
them, he thought it was best to desist
from his importunities, and after supply-
ing them with enough wine for the nigh,
he retired to his own chamber, and left
them, very reluctantly, to the indulgence
of their noisy revels.
At the time we have thought proper
to open this scene, it was, as we have be-
fore stated, about five o'clock in the
morning, and the landlord of the hotel
had arisen, and his servants also, and the
usual bustle in such places prevailed, but
still the debauchees continued their riot-
ous mirth, and it appeared as if they had
fully made up their minds to make ano-
ther day of it, at least.
'The song, Kay,. the song, the song;
we will have no excuses;' shouted Ma-
retzo.
'Ay, ay, the song, the song, we will
have no excuses;' chorussed three or four
voices, and the man under the table gave
a loud snore.
'Oh, the song, ahi! well I don't mind
trying one, just to keep up the convivi-
ality ;' said Kay, who was seated on ra-
ther a high chair, with his legsnegligent.
ly deposited on one end of the table, and
twiddling a fine-flavoured cigar in his
finger and thumb. ' The song.-let me
see--ah, what shall it be? Oh, I have
it-very good I think you will admit.'
And-then without any further ceremo-
ny, Kay, who had an excellent voice
commenced singing.
The demonstrations of applause that
greeted this bacehanallian display, were
of, the most uproarious kind, and by the
time the companions of Maretzo and
Kayhad given full scope to the exuber-
of their delight and approbation,

they were one and all ' done up,' and
one by one dropped off to sleep, leaving
the two above-named gentlemen to the
uninterrupted enjoyment of their owa
society.
'Ha ! ha ! ha!' ,laughed Maretzo ;
' they are regularly floored, poor de-
vils !'
'Completely finished and done up,
coincided Kay ;-'ha! ha! ha!'
'They are not half fellows to be done
up with one night's carouse, poor devils
ha! ha ! ha!1' observed Maretzo.
' Poor weak creatures to be knocked
down with a dozen or two of wine;, ha!I
ha ! ha!' again laughed Kay.
'Not- like you and I, Kay;' added
Maretzo.
' Not a bit of it.'
'No comparison.'
'A loco-foce to the moon.'
'Half a pint of beer to a pipe of
wine.'
'They cannot stand anything'
'Positively nothing!'
'They're twaddlers l'
' Drivellers'!'
'Noodles!'
'Boobies '
'Nincompoops!'
'Humbugs!'
It may be as well to observe here that
these compliments were bestowed upon.
the party at large, who had been liberal.
ly carousing Maretzo and Kay, without
expecting the latter to pay a cent of the
reckoning, and consequently they may-
be considered fully entitled to the elegant
epithets that were lavishly bestowed upon
them.
'You, and. I are the fellows to do it,-
Maretzo,', said Kay.
'Positively the very fellows," coincided
his friend.

' We are no skulkers while there is
plenty of good wine before us." added
Kay.
' Never think of such a thing."
' It would ruin our reputation, if we
were known to do such a thing.'
'And that would be a most melancho-
ly thing.'
'Positively awful!1'
' We will never let the enemy beat
us.'
' No, d-n 1' returned Spangle;-' but
down with it, down with it, and at it
again.'
'At it again !Hah ! hal ha!'
'We are wine proof !'
'Full proof?1'
' Above proof, by- '
'But talking about women,' observed
Kay, ' That Blodget was a devilish for-
tunate fellow.'
'Cunning rogue !' replied Maretzo ;
'he managed his business famously, and
has contrived admirably to elude the vigi-
lance of Monteagle and the lady's friends.'
'They have not heard anything of
them yet, I believe'
'Nothing!'
' Poor Monteagle ! Ha I ha!'
' Ah ! poor fool!'
' I wonder what has become of Mont-
eagle ?'
' Oh, he is doubtless still making every
inquiry after the lady.'
'And it is my firm belief that Inez
will never live to see her father, her lov-
er, or her friends again.'
'I am of the same opinion; a sensi-
tive, high-minded woman like her, will
never be able to survive long the misery
and degradation which Blodget has
heaped upon her.'
'He positively must be a smart scoun-
drel.'

' I never heard of one equal to him.'
' Such a systematic way as he went to
work to accomplish his villainy.'
' The ingenious and .complicated plot
he devised to bring about the gratifica-
tion of his wishes.'
' The artful manner in which he con-
rived to make the simpleton, Jenkins,
his dupe, too ; the ready tool to further
his deep-la d stratagem.'
' He must have had his education in
the school of art and vice, certainly.'
'Yes, and been a ready pupil, too.'
'But is it not strange that every strat-
agem has failed to find the slightest clue
to the place of retreat?'
' Wonderful 1'
'And then the attempt upon Mont-
eagle's life.'
' Doubtless by some ruffian employed
by him.'
'There cannot be a doubt of it.'
' To be sure. Revenge has incited him
to it.'
' He is a dangerous fellow to offend.'
' A very devil.'
' At any rate, he does not fail to play
the very devil with those who excite his
enmity.
' True'
'But he must be defeated at last.'
' Certainly there is not much prospect
of it at present.'
' Oh, no doubt he will be caught in
some of his own snares by and bye.'
'But do you think he has ruined the
girlP
' He is villain enough for anything.'
' He must be a monster, indeed, if he
could perpetrate such a crime as that. I
must have another glass of wine.
'Do you think that he who did not
hesitate to attempt the life of the father,

OF SAN FRANCISCO.               195


196

I

MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

and the violation of the daughter, would
shrink from any thing.'
'But, then, her youth-her innocence.'
'Paha !'-he is a stranger to such feel-
ings as they ought to inspire.'
' Why, to be sure, from  his general
conduct, we have an undoubted right to
suppose that he is.'
' And yet I think that he has had
some other motive for getting the girl in
his power ; that he has found her neces-
sary to advance hit base schemes.'
There was a pause.,
' But that Blodget is really a most ter-
rible fellow,' said Kay.
' Every stratagem, every scheme 'of
rascality, I do believe, that that rascal of
rascals is up to.
'Positively every scheme,' said Maret-
zo,' ' but this is a dry subject, and I must
have another glass of wine.'
' I feel to want one myself, too,' ob-
served Kay, filling his glass from the de-
canter : ' Well, here's wishing that Blod-
get may soon be here.'
'And Inez restored to her lover and
friends,' exclaimed Maretzo.
'Quite safe.'
'Quite safe,' repeated Kay.
'And yet I am afraid there is not
much chance of that.'
'Nor I.'
'Leave that consummate scoundrel,
Blodget, alone for that.'
'Ay, ay.'
'He would not fail to enforce his
wishes.'
s To be sure he would not.'
'And what resistance could she make?1'
'None at all.'
'She is so completely in his power.'
' Completely.'
'Without a friend at hand to fly to her
rescue.'

' Not a friend ; and besides no one
knows, or can form the least conjecture
whither he has taken her.'
' Not the least shadow of an idea,'said
Kay.
' Any person would positively imagine
that the fellow had some dealings with
the devil,' added Maretzo, ' and that she
was conveyed away by magic.'
'That they certainly would, observed
Kay.
'I would not mind a hundred dollars
to know where the fellow is.'
' Why, that would be rather awkward,
I imagine, Maretzo,' returned Kay, with
an expressive grin.
' Ha ! ha l laughed Maretzo, clapping
his hand significantly to his pocket; 'fi-
nances rather queer, you think ? Ha !
ha ! ha I I understand!'
' Funds low.'
'Ha! ha ! ha!I'
'It is not a very laughable matter
though.'
' Very unpleasant.'
'To be staightened for a few hun-
dreds"
' Very disagreeable.'
' And. people have no faith in the
word and honor of gentlemen, now-a-
days.
'Bnt we must do something to raise
the wind.'
'That is very evident.'
' Quite certain.'
'Quite.'
' We must make good use of these
boobies,' said Kay.'
' To be sure. Leave us alone for that,'
replied Maretzo.
'Oh, yes, I am certain of that.'
' They are very easy.'
'Poor devils.'
'Fit sport for us'

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

197

' Just the sort of game we like to
hunt,' returned Maretzo.
' They have got a few thousands, which
they seem bent upon wasting.'
' And we might as well reap the bene-
fit'as any other persons.'
' To be sure.'
' And we will too.'
' Oh, there is not the least doubt of
that; ha! ha! ha!'
'By the by, we ought not to feel much
obliged to Blodget for that affair --'
'No, that was a d--d bore.'
'Remarkably unpleasant.'
'A few hundreds out of our way.'
' Yes.'
' We have mingled in some strange
scenes together.'
'You may say that.'
' We have been in luck together.'
'In debt together.'
'In prison together.'
'Damme ! we have shared all the
smiles and frowns of fortune, and may
we soon be on more friendly terms with
her than ever.'
'Bravo V
The two friends quaffed off glass after
glass, with as much gusto as if they had
only just, commenced a night's carouse;
and then each crossing their legs in an
indolent and careless manner, remained
silent'for a short time. The sleepers were
snoring in concert, and did not seem
likely to awake for some time, but to mo-
nopolize the coffee-room for a chamber,
for that day at least.
After the lapse of a short interval,
Maretzo lookedup with an expression of
countenance, half solemn, and half hu-
morous, and, addressing himself to Kay,
say :
'Kay, my boy !'      -s
'Well, my dear fellow,' said Kay.

'I have-rbeen thinking, Kay.'
'And what have you been thinking !'
interrogated his dissipated companion.
' Why, that we have been a pair of
d-d scoundrels!'
'Ha ! ha ! ha! what a discovery I-
why, I have known and felt that long
ago, Maretzo,' returned Kay.
'We have taken that which did not
belong to us!' added Maretzo, ' and bor-
rowed that which we never repaid.'
' And never meant to repay ;' observed
Kay, with a laugh.
' We have diddled our tailor ; broken
the fortunes, and the hearts of innumer-
able bootmakers, hatters, frizzeurs, laun-
dresses, and other creditors.'
'Very true,' remarked Kay, 'and we
are likely enough to break the hearts of
a great many more, if they are silly
enough to trust us.'
' Ah 1' ejaculated Maretzo, and he fetch-
ed a very deep sigh, reflectively.
' Ah l' mimicked Kay; ' why, confound
me, if you are not getting melancholy.'
' I am becoming penitent,' replied Mar-
etzo, in a tone still half serious, ' I am
becoming penitent, Kay,'
'Penitent!'
'Yes, downright compunctious.'
'Ha I ha! ha '
' Don't laugh, I feel a touch of the se-
rious,' remarked Maretzo, ' I think it is
high time that we began to think about
a reformation, Kay.'
'Well, positively.'
'Ah ! it may be well, positively,' re-
peated Maretzo, ' and, positively, I wish
it to be well.'
' And what is your plan of reforma-
tion ?' inquired Kay.
' Why, matrimony.'
'Matrimony              -
' Ay, sober wedlock,' answered Maret-


198

MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

so, 'it would be advisibie for us to do the
steady and the amiable for some time,
until we can meet with a favorable match;
a handsome sum in the shape of a- wed-
ding dowry, and a handsome wife, and
then we may settle down into two worthy,
gentlemen, very patterns of domesticated
virtue.'
'Not a bad plan,' said Kay,: smiling,
'but it is almost too soon to think about
that, yet.'
'Not at all.'
' That is only your opinion,'
'And I have no doubt, as we have
hitherto generally agreed, that it will be
your opinion also.'.
'I cannot make up my mind to be
shackled jfst yet, my dear fellow,' replied
Kay.r
'Nonsense, you may let the opportu-
nity go by, and then you would repent
it, take my word for it,'
'Probably, I might,' said Kay, ' but I
hall e'en trust fortune a little while
longer.'
'But fortune will not trust you-we
owe her too large an account already,'
observedMaretzo.,
'But I am determined to jilt the jade
still further, yet.'
Mind you do not deceive yourself.'
Leave mpe alone for that.'
'After all, if a pretty gird; with a-hand-
some potion is thrown in your way, I do
not fear but that I shall be able to make
you a convert.'
'Well, -we'll leave that till the oppor-
tunityloffexs itself.' ;
Be it so.'
But you are really serious?'
' Cursed serious.'
Ha, ha, ha 1 we must have another
glass of wine after that,' laughed Kay,
'here's fortune and' matrimony.'

- Fortune and matrimony,' responded
Maretzo, raising the glass to his lips; and
then another pause of a few minutes took
place.
'I have been thinking, Kay,' at length
Maretzo broke silence, ' that, after all,
the whereabouts of Blodget, and Inez
may not be so difficult for Monteagle to
trace out as hitherto it has proved.'
At this, the door opened, and. the
landlord entered, saying that a man
wished to speak to Kay.
'Tell him to come in. Who the deuce
can it be ?' said Kay..
'Doubtless one of our fellows,' said
Maretzo.
The man now entered.
' Well,' said Kay. ' ' I'm the person
you asked for.'
The visitor went to the door, and turn-
ed the key. He then said, in a low
tone, ' Is your companion to be trusted I'
'True as steel,' said Kay..
']3lodget is in trouble and needs your
assistance. He is at Gordon's house.-
Jenkins has informed on him, and he
can't leave the house without almost cer-
tain death. He wishes you and a per-
son he called Maretzo, to be there to-
night. With your aid he can get off,
carrying the lady with him. He says
he won't mind a couple of thousand, if
you can get him out of this scrape'
'Now, my good fellow, how do we
know that this isn't all gas. A trap,
may be ?' said Kay.
'He told me to tell you, if you doubt-
ed me, to remember the old man in the
old house!'
Kay started, but quickly recovering
himself said, 'I All right, we'll be on
hand.'
The man left the house, and mounting
his horse rode to the Mission. At a

small house near the church he found
Joaquin, by whom he was conducted to
Jenkins, who was in company with
Monteagle and some Californians, friends
of Inez and her family.
The party speedily set off across the
country towards the 'house where Inez
was confined. But speedy as they were,
they found they had been anticipated by
Kay and Maretzo, who had set off to
aid Blodget the instant the man had
left. On arriving at the house they
knocked boldly at the door. Gordon
opened it, but upon seeing who the visi-
tors were he attempted-to slam  it in
their faces, but ere he succeeded a long
Spanish knife was driven to his heart by
Maretzo, and the wretch fell a bleeding
corpse on the floor. Blodget was soon
released.
' Bear a-hand,' cried Kay, 'We must
be out of this d-d quick. If Jenkins
or any of his gang arrive, we're gone
chickens.'
'One moment,' cried Blodget. 'I'll
have this d---d stubborn Spanish b-h
if I have to carry her corpse across my
saddle' as he spoke he sprang up stairs.
Alice had overheard what passed for
she was sitting by Inez's bed-side watch-
ing her slumbers.
The brave girl instantly determined to
save Inez, even at peril of her own life.
She extinguished the light, and throw-
ing the veil of Inez over her head, and
her mantle over her shoulders, she stood
with beating heart, as she heard the vil-
lain Blodget's steps upon the stairs.
' Inezl' cried the ruffian, as he opened
the door of the chamber.
'Who calls me,' said Alice, imitating
the voice of Inez.
The rufilan made no reply, but seizing

OF SAN FR

ANCISCO.                        199
her shrinking form in his arms, he bore
her to the front of the ranch, where Kay
and Maretzo stood ready to mount, hold-
ing a spare horse that they had brought
to facilitate Blodget's escape. The ruf-
fian sprang to his horse's back, dragging
Alice up before, and dashing the rowels
into his horse's flanks, flew off at full
speed, followed by Kay and Maretzo.
They had not been gone many mo-
ments, ere Jenkins, Monteagle, and their
friends arrived. The bloody body of
Gordon, which first arrested their atten-
tion at the threshold, filled them with
dreadful forebodings.
Lights were procured, and Monteagle
sought the chamber in which he was
told he would find Inez. He burst in-
to the room. A lady lay on the bed.
'Inez l' he shouted.
The lady turned her head, and his
eyes fell upon her countenance !
' Gracious Heaven!' he almost shriek-
ed ; 'is this some beauteous vision got
up to torture me to madnessI Inez!-
My Inez?
A wild shriek answered him !-It was
no delusion ! He sprang forward with
delirious speed, just time enough to clasp
the fainting form of his long-lost betroth-
ed in his arms!
How shall our weak pen essay the
task to describe the scene which followed
this strange, this unexpected meeting I
Insensible, Inez was conveyed to an
apartment in the cabaret, whither Mont-
eagle followed, and could not be persuad-
ed to leave her sight for an instant.
Again and again he enfolded her in
his arms; pressed warm kisses on her
lips, her cheeks, her teinples, and laugh-
ed and wept like a child, by turns!--
Then he threw himself upon his knees'


200                   MYSTERIES AT
clasps his hands vehemently together,
and poured forth an eloquent prayer to-
the most-High !
Joaquin began to entertain a fear that
the sudden surprise, and so powerful a
shock as it must be to his feelings, would
have a fatal effect upon his senses; and
he did all that he -possibly could to
calm his emotions.
His efforts were, however, for some
time unavailing, but at length he be,-
eame more tranqillized, and resigning
Inez to the care of the persons who had
been called in to attend her, he sank in-
to a chair, and covering his face with
his hands, gave full vent to the emotions
that overflowed his heart, in a copious
flood of tears.
' Joaquin in this did not attempt to in-
terrupt him, for he well knew what a re-
lief it would be to him, and he turned
his eyes from Monteagle to watch the
progress which was being made towards
the recovery of Inez.
His joy was scarcely less than that of
Monteagle, alhough it did not exhibit it-
self in so violent a manner, and his heart
teemed with gratitude to the Almighty,
who had brought about their restoration
to each other in so miraculous a manner.
It was not long before Ines was re-
stored to animation; and, looking eager-
ly around her, she exclaimed :-
- 'Where is he ?-Was it a dream ?-
Oh, where is Monteagle ?'
He is here, my love, my long lost
one l-My only hope!' cried Monteagle,
and again they- were enfolded to each
other's hearts, while further utterance
was denied them by the power of their
emotions !
We must hastily draw a veil over that
scene which the imagination of our read-
ers can depicture far better than any

ND MISERIES

language of ours, however powerful, we
could describe it !
Those moments were a foretaste of
Heaven, succeeding the torment of pur-
gatory ! Their extacy was so great, that
they could scarcely believe the evidence
of their senses. It was some time ere
they could satisfy themselves that they
spoke, they breathed, or' that they
were still inhabitants of this sublunary
scene !
But when, by the joint efforts of
Joaquin and others, they became more
tranquillized, the scene which followed
was affecting in the extreme. They rest-
ed for a few hours, as they were not suf-
ficiently composed to resume their jour-
ner to that home in which they had not
together met for so lorg a period, and
where they had never expected to meet
again ; and their friends, after a short
time, left them to themselves, to enter
into that mutual explanation, they were
each so anxious to obtain.
With what feelings of horror, disgust,
and indignation, did Monteagle listen to
the recital of his love, but how did his
heart overflow with gratitude, when he
heard of the manner in which Inez had
been enabled to resist the diabolical at-
tempts and importunities of the villain
Blodget ; and as he pressed her to his
heart, he again pouredl forth his thanks
to the Almighty for her preservation from
such accumulated and fearful dangers.
' The monster ! the fiend !-for he
cannot be anything human, although he
bears the form ofman,' cried Monteagle,
speaking of Blodget ; 'oh, how I regret
that he has been suffered to escape my
vengeance l'
'But he will not that of Heaven,
dearest,' ejaculated Inez ; ' oh, most as-
suredly that will ere long overtake him

OF SAN FRANCISCO.                  201

in its most terrible form, for the many,
the almost- unequalled crimes of which
he has been guilty l'
'True, my love,' returned Monteagle,
and his eyes sparkled with rapture as he
gazed upon that dear countenance he
had never expected to behold again;
'and oh, if ever atrocity deserved pun-
ishment, dreadful will be his doom. To
concoct so infernal a plot, by which he
,tore you from my arms.'
Inez smiled beautifully through her
tears, and throwing her fair ys around
the neck of Monteagle, the kisses she so
fervently pressed upon his lips, convinced
him powerfully of her affection.
' Say no more upon that painful sub-
ject, my dearest,' she ejaculated ; 'let it
from this joyful moment be for ever bu-
ried in oblivion.'
'It shall, it shall, my sweetest,' replied
Monteagle ; ' but oh, what a debt of gra-
titude do I owe to your generous pre-
server, Jenkins. Would that I could see
him, that I might to himself express
the power of my feelings. Nothing can
ever sufficiently reward that man for
the inestimable service he has rendered
me.'
'I need not assure you,' rejoined Inez,
'that I most warmly concur in your feel-
ings; and I trust that at some future
period, Jenkins may be able to visit us,
and receive the demonstrations of our
mutual gratitude, and, moreover, be per-
suaded to quit the life he is at present
leading.'
' Pity it is that he should, by some
cursed fatality urging him on to crime,
be driven from it,' observed Monteagle ;
'but I dare say that his offences have
never been so heinous as to exclude him
from all hope of earthly pardon.'
'No, I cannot believe that they have,'

replied Inez ; ' but he is so much' at-
tached to his present wild life of freedom,
and his reckless associates, that I am
doubtful whether he will ever be induced
to abandon them.'
'My influence and exertions to induce
him to do so, shall not be wanting,' said
Monteagle.  'Still I am sorry that he
should have changed his first determin-
ation, namely, to deliver the wretch
Blodget into the hands of justice. While
I know that vllain to living and still at
large, my mind cannot be entirely at rest,
for, however watchful and vigilant we
may be, after what we have experienced
from his villanous artifices, have we not
reason to fear that he will devise some
means of further annoying us, and grati-
fying his demonical revenge?'
'Do not, I beg of you, my love,' said
our heroine, ' harass your mind by ap-
prehensione.'
'Heaven grant that your surmises
may prove correct, Inez,' observed Mont-
eagle ; ' but I candidly own that I can-
not entirely divest my mind of the fears
which I have described; and should any-
thing happen again to you, my love, all
my manly fortitude would entirely for-
sake me, and I should never be able to
survive the shock !'
'Pray, Monteagle,' urged Inez, 'if you
would not make me miserable, endeav-
or, struggle to banish such gloomy im-
aginings from your bosom. and trust to
the goodness of Providence which has
hitherto so mercifully preserved us, when
the darkest snares of villainy sought to
ruin and destroy us.'
'For your sake, my own love,' replied
Monteagle, once more affectionately and
passionately kissing her cheek, ' I will
endeavor to do so ; still you surely will
not blame me for not placing too much


MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

confidence in our security, which might
prevent me from being watchful and
wary to defeat any base plans that might
be deivsed against our future peace?'
'Oh, no,' in that you will only act
with prudence and wisdom, although, I
must repeat that I sincerely trust there
will not be found to be any necessity for
that precaution. But my poor father---
what of him ?'
'He is well in body.'
'But how has he supported .my ab-
sence ?'
'Oh, he suffered terribly.'
'Did he give himself up to grief ?'
'At first he did-he was as one struck
to the earth by a sudden, violent blow.
Joaquin, however, roused him from his
despondency, by urging the absolute ne-
cessity of pursuing the abductors. Thus
urged, your father\ shook off his des-
pondency, and appearing to forget his
years, joined in the search for your ab-

ductors with all the ardor of youth. In.
deed it became almost necessary forci-
bly to restrain him, lest he should be-
come totally deranged.'
' Totally deranged!1 Then his mind
was affected by my loss ?'
'Oh, my love,' ejaculated Monteagle,
'Would that heaven had spared me that
painful task ; but pray be calm and bear
the melancholy intelligence with forti-
tude and resignation.-
'Speak on, speak on; I'm prepared
for the wat,' ejaculated our heroine-
Tell me of my poor father.'
'When I left your home the physici-
ans hoped he might recover, as at inter-
vals reason seemed returning, when he
would call for his daughter Inez, and
then relapse into unconsciousness.'
'Oh, let us hasten to my poor dear
father.'
They were soon in their saddles, and
on road to the Mission.

202

this hour of the night, when all such I ver to procure it.

CHAPTER XIX.
The Seducer's Terrible End.
A FEw nights after Blodget's escape
found him walking the streets of San
Francisco, but disguised as he thought
too effectually to be recognised by any
eye, however sharp.
There was a. cloud upon Blodget's
brow as he emerged from the court
into the semi-obscurity of Montgomery
street, and his mind was evidently ill at
ease. He tried to hum a fashionable
opera air when he had walked a little
distance, but there seemed something
in his throat which choked him, and
the sounds died tpon his lips. Then
he quickened his pace, when a young
female emerged from a street which he
was passing, and laid her hand upon
his arm. He turned his head, and be-
held Carlotta.
She was thinner than when he had
seen her last, and looked as if she had
recently been ill; but her dark eyes
were as lustrous as then, and there was
the same gloss upon her raven hair.
At the moment that she emerged from
the shade of the court, and laid her hand
upon his, there was a strange and al-
most indescribable expression upon he
dark countenance, but it passed away
as quickly as a flight of birds-over a
stream, and when Blodget's eyes met
hers, they read nothing therein but
pleasure at meeting him again.
'Ah, my little wild rose of the is-
lands 1' said he, 'what are you doing at

pretty wild birds should be in their
nests.
'Well, I can't say I was looking for
you,' returned Carlotta, 'but I am glad
that I have met you, nevertheless. But
I should ask you where you have been
wandering, you naughty man ?'
' Oh, I have been to the theatre, and
then walked this way with a friend,'
returned Blodget. 'But where are you
staying-can you take me home with
you?'
'Fiei1' said Carlotta, playfully.
' I really cannot part with you, my
charnmer,' said Blodget. 'If you cannot
take me to your quarters, wherever they
may be, you must come somewhere
with me.'
'You must not think of going where
my people are,' observed the Chilian
girl, 'remember how near the detection
of our amour was costing our lives.'
'Then come with me, my beauty,
said Blodget. 'There is a house not
far from here which will suit out pur-
pose, and I shall not part with you until
day-light.'
'Then I go with you, Blodget,' said
Carlotta. 'Promise me that you will
not seek to detain me more than an
hour, and I will not refuse you the hap-
piness you covet.'
Blodget promised, and the Chiliaa
girl accompanied him to an accommoda-
tion-house in the neighborhood, where
they were conducted to a neatly furnish-
ed bed-chamber on the first floor.
' We shall have time to drink a bottle
of champagne in the hour that you have
promised to remain with me,' observed
Blodget, and he gave the girl, who had
preceded them with a light, some ail-

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

203

0


MYSTERIES AlND MISERIES

They sat down, and Blodget threw
his arm round the waist of his dark-
eyed companion, and drawing her to-
wards him, impressed a kiss upon her
lips. She smiled upon him, but her
lips did not give back the kiss, and
theme.-'was a glitter in her night dark
eyes at the moment which was not the
radiance which springs from happiness
or love. Blodget, however, failed to de-'
tect anything unusual or peculiar in the
expression of that glance. The- wine
was brought, and placed upon a. small
round table convenient to Blodget's
hand, and he filled the glasses, handing
one to Carlotta and taking one himself.
'The sparkling juice will bring back
to your dark cheeks a glow that seems
wanting there.' said he, as he sat down
the glasses and immediately refilled
them.
' Come, drink,' he cried.
'It will be the last time we'll drink
together.'    .
'Why what the deuce makes you
think so ?' said Blodget.
'I don't know,' replied the 'girl,
'but I h'ave said it, and you'll see if it
don't come to pass.'
'D-d nonsense,' cried Blodget, laugh-
ing, and then he drew his companion on
his knee, and kissed her repeatedly and
eagerly.
Carlotta was silent, but she reclined
her dark cheek against her seducer's,
and quietly and adroitly drew from her
pocket a little phial containing some
liquid. Concealing the phial in her
hand,'she then threw her arm over
Blodget's shoulder, and noiselessly draw-
ing the tiny'cork, poured the contents
of the phial into his glass.
'Another glass of champagne, my
glow-worm,' said Blodget,'and the soft

delights of -love, the thrilling joys of
warm and impassioned nature are ours.'
Carlotta removed her arm from his
shoulder as he turned slightly to reach
his wine, and while she kept her eyes
upon the glasses to observe that he gave
her the one that she had drank from be-
fore, she returned the empty phial to
hei pocket.
'I suppose nothing unpleasant came
of our dalliance ?' said Blodget, in a
half interrogative tone, as he handed
the girl her glass.
' Why do you suppose so? Ought
you not rather to suppose just the re-
verse ? Was not something unpleasant
naturally to be expected ?'
'Well, perhaps I might have sup-
posed so,' returned Blodget, deprecat-
ingly, and a little disconcerted by the
girl's reply.
There was a moment's pause, and
both sat with their glasses in their hands,
Blodget's eyes fixed upon the floor, the
girl surveying the countenance of her
seducer, as if she were trying to read his
thoughts.
'Well, what was it?' Blodget at
length inquired.,
' A boy,' returned Carlotta. 'It died,
and I was glad of it, for if it had lived
it might have been as faithless as his
father.'
'Do you want to quarrel?'
'No.'             I
'For heaven's saks cease,' exclaimed
Blodget, suddenly raising the wineglass
to his lips, and emptying it at a draught.
Carlotta drank her wine quickly as
he spoke, and rose from his knee, where
she had contrived to sit while upbraid-
ing him with his inconstancy and du-
plicity. Her dark eyes were fixed upon
his countenance, which changed the mo-

204

a
f
v
f                  '
t
R

(

ment he had swallowed the wine, his curely to the bedpost nearest the win-
lips becoming white, and the expression dow; this done, she noiselessly raised
of his features becoming ghastly and the sash, and looked out. The night
cadaverous,                        was dark and foggy, but she could see
'You are a dead man and I am av- that there was a small yard below, with
enged l' exclaimed the girl in a hissing 4 door in the wall, which opened into
whisper ; and then she- glided towards- a court at the rear of the house. Drop-
the door, and turned the key in the ping one end of the sheets from the win-
lock.                              dow, she immediately got out upon the
A faint groan which seemed to strug- sill, and grasping the sheet firmly with
gle feebly and faintly upwards, was the both hands, descended in safety into the
only sign of vitality which Blodget gave yard. She could hear laughter and the
and then his head fell upon his breast tinkling of glasses in the back parlor,
and his arms fell powerless at his side. but the shutters were closed, and noise-
Quickly and silently Carlotta drew the lessly unbolting the door in the yard
sheets from the bed, knotted them to- fence, she hurried swiftly ot, and in
gether, and then fastened one end se- a few minutes was far away.

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

205


MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

CARTER XX.
The Return to the Mission.
LET us now rejoin Inez and Monteagle
whom we left on their road to the Mis-
sion.
What powerful sensations of unspeak-
able delight rushed through the vein% of
Inez, and monopolized every feeling 'of
her heart, when thosescenes which she
had never expected to behold again,
once more burst upon her vision. The
tumult of rapturous and conflicting ideas
that darted to her brain, were almost
overwhelming, and, although her tongue
was eager to. give expression to her sen-
timents, the strength of her emotions
would not permit her to give utterance
to a single syllable. She looked in the
countenance of her lover with an expres-
sion of the most unbounded affection
and delight, and she fully perceived that
he reciprocated her feelings. Tears filled
his eyes, and taking her hand he pressed
it to his lips with eloquent silence. -
Not the slightest change appeared to
have taken place in everything upon
which the eyes of our' heroine rested,
since last she had gazed upon those well
known scenes. The bright beams of a
silvery moon were shining serenely upon
every thing around, and a melancholy
silence, so consonant with her own state
of mind, prevailed. But, alas, she re-
flected, what a change had taken place
in the home of her childhood ! That
home which had once abounded in every,
happiness that the human mind could
wish for, was now the abode of sorrow;,
that fond parent, whose every joy and
hope were centered in her, was a maniace

and would be insensible to the felicity of
her restoration to his arms.
This last thought was too afflicting for
endurance, and overcome by her emotion
she leant her head upon the bosom of
Monteagle, and burst into an hysterical
flood of tears.
In~ vain did Monteagle endeavor to
tranquilize her feelings, he felt how pow-
erful was the cause she had for sorrow,
and the anguish he endured was scarcely
less than her, own.
Joaquin exerted himself to the utmost
to calm the feelings of them both, and
he at length succeeded.
Monteagle, we should have mentioned
before, had taken the precaution to send
forward a person to the Mission, with a
letter, making them  briefly acquainted
with the fortunate meeting which bad'
taken place between him and- our hero-
ine, and of their coming, so that the sur-
prise might not be too sudden for them;
and they were, therefore, fully aware that
they would exert themselves to the ut-
most to meet 'the unexpected pleasure
which awaited them ; the more espe-
cially as the precarious and lamentable
situation of Senor de Castro rendered the
greatest care necessary.
At length the elegant, but unostenta-
tious, mansion, burst upon their vision,
and Providence imbued the mind of Inez
with a calm feeling of joy, which she
had never experienced before. Every-
thing seemed to dance before her eyes to
welcome ~ her return to that once happy
home, and the horses appeared to move'
with the most tedious slowness, as they
bantered along the road which led to the
garden gates.
They reached those gates; they were
already open, and standing to receive

206

OF SAN FRANCISCO.

them-were beings endeared to them by My father-my poor, dear father ; where
every affectionate and grateful feeling.  is he l
Let not the too presumptuous pen at-  'My dear Inez,' replied the Padre; 'I
tempt to describe the scene which fol- can fully appreciate the anxiety of your
lowed, language is by far .too weak to feelings ; but pray endeavor to restrain
convey any idea of it. Tears, sobs, and them. Your father has retired to his
broken sentences of unbounded transport, 'chamber and sleeps-do not disturb him
burst from  the over-charged bosoms of lest-'
each individual; and then Inez felt her-  'And think you,' interrupted our hero-
self let along the avenue which conduct- ine, with the most violent emotion de-
ed to the hall.                      picted in her countenance ; think you
Although her eyes were dimmed by thatAI can rest calmly one moment with-
tears, and her thoughts were so fully oc- out beholding that unfortunate, that doat-
cupied, our heroine could yet behold sev- ing. parent from whom I have been so
eral of the old domestics standing in the long and so cruelly separated? No-'no
path, who, as she passed, raised their -no--I will go to him ; not an in-
hands and eyes towards Heaven, and gave stant ---'
utterance to their simple, but forcible, Quckly up the stairs which led to the
exclamations of gratitude to the -Most well known chamber of her father, our
High for the restoration of their 'dear heroine bounded, but when she arrived
young lady,' to her home and friends,  at the door, she paused ; a death-like
Another moment and Inez found her- faintness came over her, she breathed
self in the well known' parlor, endeared short, and she was unable to move a step
to her by so many fond remembrances further.
and associations; and sinking on her   Monteagle and others entreated her to
knees,. she clasped her hands fervently return to the parlor, and to defer the
towards Heaven, and gave full vent to trying scene till the morning, but she
the expression of her ardent and sponta- answered them by a look which ,fully
neous ejaculations of thanksgiving to the convinced them of her determination,
Almighty disposer of all events for her and they therefore desisted.
deliverance.  .-                       In a few moments she partially reco-
No one offered to interrupt her, they vered herself, but still she had not suffi-
were also too much occupied with the cient courage or resolution to enter the
'feelings of astonishment and unspeaka- chamber.
ble delight that filled their bosoms. But She stood and listened, supported by
at length, Inez having ended her solemn the arm of her lover, and her ears caught
prayer, suddenly arose from her knees, the sound of the breathing of the patient,
and looking eagerly around the room, every respiration going to her heart like
she said:                            a stream of fire.
'But where is he ? He is not here I In a moment the breathing sounds
Where is the poor old han-that he is ceased, and all was still as death.
not present to snatch his unfortunate  'He sleeps, he sleeps, and probably
daughter once more to his heart, and dreams of her who--'
--e~   a   -^r      i      -a-     1   ' Hark ! hark I' hastily interrupted our
WV~jI U~ LI3~L~ UL UJ UJ~U LL~~ J~V5~  ----y ---J'~--

207

r
I
t
l
. ,
f
3
s

L. ,OL J36 i {y Lya p + aif+W Vaa47 A&amp;&amp; vva rs r vvvs v v.

weep ins tears of joy upvu uCr uvnviu


208

MYSTERIES AND MISERIES OF SAN FRANCISCO.

heroine ; ' those sounds-do listen ;- what a bright and lovely vision I-Her
those words--those words-,;y heart very self I-So like her !-But 'tis only
will burst!'                        fancy-only fancy-haI ha ! ha !-How
They listened with- breathless atten- beautiful '
tion, and Monteagle supported the form 'Father ! father !-dear, dear father !
of nca, in a state of agony too powerful Do you n-ot know me ?  Oh,,God.! what
foredescription. In low and plaintive a bitter trial is this !' frantically sobbed
tones,..sufficient to draw tears frem the forth the distracted Inez, as she threw
eyes of the most insensible individual, her arms around the poor old man's
the unfortunate de Castro was singing, neck, and pressed warm and delirious
apparently in his sleep, the words of a kisses upon his lips.
song Inez had so often sung to please   In a few moments Senor de Castro
him, and which brought to the memory began to regain his scattered senses,
many powerful and agonizing recollec- and gazed round him like one slowly
tons.                                awaking from a fearful dream.
'God ! God ! support me!' gasped      He at length fully recognized his child.
forth Inez, clinging to the arm of her Then followed a scene too affecting for
lover, and her whole frame convulsed pen or pencil to describe.
with anguish.                           But one subject remained to. cloud
',Father ! father!1 dear, dear father ! I their happiness. It was the absence of
can bear no more,' ,cried Inez ; and Alice Hewlett, of whose abduction, by
tearing herself from the hold of Montea- Blodget, they learned from the old wo-
ge she rushed into the chamber, and man at the ranch. Bitterly did Inez
darted to the side of the bed.        deplore the sad fate which had befallen
Senor de Castro was sitting up in the the lovely ' Squatter's Daughter.'
bed when Inez entered the - room, and   Brown fled upon hearing of the arrest
was staringvacantly around him. His of the gang.
countenance had undergone little or no  Monteagle was of course cleared of
perceptible change; the ruddy glow of all complicity in the robbery of the
health was on his cheeks, and so calm store, by this confession, and Mr. Vande-
and serene was its expression, that it water gave him  a share in his business
seemed almost impossible that his mind as some ,recompense for his unjust dis-
could be in the deplorable condition in missal.
which it was.                           The little church at the Mission was
On beholding Inez and the others en- soon after gaily decorated, and before its
ter, he exhibited emotion, but when his humble altar the hands of .Inez and
eyes rested upon the former, a sweet Monteagle were united.    Their hearts
smile irradiated his features, and laugh- had been so from the day our hero bore
ing with all the joyousness of a child, he the fainting maiden in =safety. from the
exlaimed :--                         flames.
'Beautiful !-.-oh, how K beautiful I-
THE      END.

4AU625

lU

-f ,         -  -            _-


  
             
         
       
   
