
    ----CITATION----
        Sands, Alexander H. (1828-1887). Some Passages in the Life of Geoffrey Clinker, Esq. [pseud.] : .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7697
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Some passages in the life of Geoffrey Clinker, Esq. [pseud.] : 
            
               /

r
REPRODUCED FROM THE COPY IN THE
HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LIBRARY
FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION

~:t~ ~Iinkcr Ian stipt~.
/
SOME PASSAGES

IN
THE LIFE OF
GEOFFREY CtINKER, ESQI
WRITTEN ~BY HIMSELF.
C~7 ~
'RICHMOND:
MACFARLANE &amp; FERGUSSON.

I,
.'

18~54!                 I

'1'


*   J~ ~                     -~

-p
Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854,
BY MACFARLANE &amp; FERGUSSON,
in the Cler1~ 2Oflice of the District Court of the United States,
in and for the Eastern District of Virginia.

IINTROIDUCTORY.
When a mere lad, I frequently saw on the streets an odd lookir~g old
man, who had lived ~tnd flourished, if he flourished at all, at a period
when our republic was yet in its infancy. His manners and address
indir- familiarity with the best modes of polishediif'e in the cob-
njal p a of c r State. He was urbane and courteous to a fault, and
though I was at first repelled by his odd appearance, I became in an ex-
traordinary degree attached to his society upon a more familiar acquaint-
ance. During our intimacy-such an intimacy as would be likely to
grow up between a young man and one who had lived so long in the
I past-the old man would frequently recount the history of the stirring
periods of our revolution, and I well remember with what enthusiasm
and boyish ardor he described his first meeting with the g~eat and yen-
erable LaFayette, just after the memorable surrender at Yorktown..~
Many of the historic reminiscences connected with that event, and which
no chronicler of the period has preserved, were detailed to me in these
conversations. I learned, too, that this gentleman had been in the habit
of putting his thoughts on paper, and I was favored with more than one~
of his sketches of the home life of our young Virginia, while yet she
acknowledged the sway of his majesty, King George the Third.
The old man died, bequeathing his manuscripts-his only possession-
to a descendant who has since kindly submitted them to my inspection,
with the liberty of giving such of them to the public as might be deemed
suitable.
The following chapters, bearing his autograph title in bold upright char-
acters, purporting to be a synoptical view of his own life, are now publish-
ed as a proper introduction to other of his manuscripts having particular
reference to the historic details of the time. Indeed, I have eliminated
chapters of this description found in this volume, because they might
more properly be introduced in connection with other essays from his
pen.
It will be observed that the current of his life seems to have run in very
nearly the same channel with ours of the present day.
I. W.


9 ~ ~

I
)
(
)                                        K
)                                        K
(
~ ~ - -

4

SOME PASSAGES IN THE LIFE OF
GEOFFREY CLINKER, ESQO

CHAPTER I.
SHOWING HOW I BEGAN LIFE..

It ~as a marvellous thing-I assure you-my boy-that of
being born into this strange world, anti though some seventy
odd years have passed by since then, I never think of it now
without astonishment. iLet me see. There was old Parson
Dowdy there, to be sure, for the Parson was never absent on
such occasions. lie had a good reason for being attentive to
them. It was rumored, that while yet a yoi~ng man he had lost
two very bar~isorne fees by his absence, the little strangers
having in both instances left the land of the living as soon as
they reached it, without waiting to be christened. Parson Ji~ow-
dy was there-and my mother's eldest sister, her of the blue
dress and tremendous oversleeves. I remember her as well as
if it were yesterday. That was many years afterward~ though.
She sat at my father's table knitting me a pair of socks, every
now and then heaving a deep sigh, and saying in s~4rcely au-
dible tones: poor Nancy! Nancy was my mother's name.
Then, father! yes father was there, and I have heard that he
spent a night of sleepless anxiety and was careworn jand
thoughtful on that morning. My father always had a thought-
ful look. I never saw him smile, and I wondered at it, for

I

(


I'
47

6           Some Passages in the Life of
all-around him were merry and gay, and he~~;~ not a moros4
man. lie would frequently take me up in his arms and hu~
me to his bosom, aiA I could discover whenever he did so the
large tear drops stealing down his manly cheek. I loved my
father. But I am getting away from the subject. Beside
these, there was none other person present save the neighbor-
ing physician-a good, kindhearted man who went about from
house to house dealing out his charities and kind deeds without
expecting any return for his services. Poor man, he had had
many such cases, but never a one which was to terminate so
seriously. My mother-i never saw my x~iother. She was a
beautiful woman, so my aunt has told me~ She had soft silken
hair, the color of flax, a dimpled cheek and skin of fairest
white, and a voice an gel-toned, it was so pure and sweet. My
mother was very sick. She could not recover. Her pulse was
low, and its strokes were feeble and yet feebler. She was going
every moment. A few more and she would bi~eathe her last.
There lay i, the innocent occasion of her death. She had gone!
A birth and a death at the same hour: The house of joy con-
verted into the house of mourning.
CHAPTER ii.
MY SCHOOL EXPERIENCE AND WHAT I LEARNED THERE.
The school-house was 1o~ated just outside of the corporatee lim-
its of the city I wa~ then proud to caW my birthplace. It was
a neat log building, scarce fifteen feet by twenty, consisting of
a single room. There was a green plot in front of the door, and
what was known as the lawn stretched out in the rear. Enter-

aeoffrey (Junker, Esq.              7'
ing the house early in the morning, before the pedagogue had
mounted his chair of state, you might have discovered a state
of affairs somewhat resembling the condition of Bedlam and
Babel combined. here mounted on a stool, just three feet
high, stood a promising young lad of the same height, bawling
out a command at the top of his voice to another to keep quiet,
while in an opposite direction two qrthree little urchins were
exercising their milseles at the expanse of each other's bones.
These were occasionally relieved by outcries resemthing cat-
calls and the like emanating from different quarters of the
spacious building. Suddenly; as in a flash, you would discover
the tum~ilt cease and die away into a sing-song tone, as each
little urchin took his place to hum over the morning recitation.
Mr. Thomson, the teacher, was a jovial old man, scarce turned
of ~fty, who had preserved his good spirits and gee d temper
amazingly well, in view of the trials they had severally &amp;ncoun-
tered. lie had no taste for extra exertion, and this was one of
the reasons assigned by the boys for his entire absence of an-
ger, save on the most provoking occasions. I do not remember
ever to have seen him macI l)ut once, and then, strange to say,
it was a pure mistake. The boys had a habit of ducking each
other, at certain seasons of the year. Unfortunately, the ped-
agogue was mistaken for one of these mischievous urchins, and
as he entered his school-room he was saluted with a bucket full
of water, which ran down his savory person, leaving his phiz
and his person a ~b spectacle for gods and men !" The poor
little boy whose mischief it was, trembled like an aspen leaf
on the occasion, and barely escaped the rod, and his coumpan-
ions-one and all-were soundly berated upon the practice and
strictly enjoined to abandon it from that day forward. And,

(

9


8           /S'ome Passages. in the Life of
strange te say, this command was obeyed to the letter.
treaties of                               already
never had much fancy for school. It was an irksome busi-
ness, make the best of it, I thought. But I had  passed
beyond the limited period of long clothes, and, spie the en-
my aunt, who had had me under her pupilage these
ten years, I was sent to school.
On the fearful morning in which I *as ushered into the pr -
sence of the pedagogue, my knees smote each other with terr r,
and I could with difficulty utter a word; but the ordeal passed,
the day wore quickly away and I felt there was nothing so
horrible in going to school after all.
At school it was-at this little village school-that J coin-
meuced the first serious business pursuit of my life, and the
exact character of ii pursuit may be guessed at when I in-
form you, my son, that the old village schools were the resort
of both sexes where boys and girls were allowed to mingle in
the fray together. Already had the girls been parcelled off to
their respective admirers, and there was not one of the fair
sex who had not her especial protector among the other.
There was little Polly Dawson, scarce entered upon her fifth
tear, with as much of the shrewdness and quickness in discern-
ing "the times and seasons" as her elder sister at home, who
had been caressed and courted by the entire town, and Polly
had her admirer too-a boy not half my age. Little Jack
Dowdy-for that was his name, and a name he was never
ashamed og was the son of the parson who has been already
introduced. Little Jack loved Polly, and Polly loved Jack, and
it was every where agreed that Polly and Jack were suited to
each other. At the time I entered, it fortunately happened
that a little fairy had just been transported to the city from a

Gcoff~cy clinker, Esq.

9

neighboring county and was to be entered. This was my sole
chance, for every other of the girls had been claimed and won.
Betsy was the name of the fair one. To attempt a description
of this child at this distant period, with the feeble pen and fee-
bler intellects of an old man, might seem like child's play.
But her image, on the day on which she entered the schoolroom
is as distinctly painted in my mind, as if I had her now before
me. Betty wore a pink calico dress, neatly tucked, with a
white apron, just i'eaching the hem of her frock. Her hair was
parted in the middle and fell in auburn ringlets about her
shoulders. 11cr manner was brisk, half hesitating, half ad-
vancing. She would speak in a (1uick but quiet manner and
every thing she said or did was with rapidity and ease. She
had the merriest laugh I have ever heard-and it was this
which first woke within me so much admiration, I may say,
love for the little fairy. Betty carried to school a little bag
in which she put her books and refreshments and I usually did
myself the honor tc~ carry them home for her. I was in love.
CHAPTER III.
CHILDHOOD ITS LOVE.
It is a foolish thing-this childish love. It scarcely deserves
the name. But why is childish love a folly? If it be, then love
itself is a folly altogether. If in the first gushing out of exis-
tence, while the heart is yet in its virgin youth, and the rank
weeds have not overgrown it, it may not love-when shall it first
begin to experience the emotion of affection? Does the ivy
wait until the chills of winter have blasted its vigor or the
summer's sun has burnt and destroyed its vitality, before it

K


10         8ome Pas8ages in the ]9~fe of
clings to the protecting oak? So neither should the heart of
the child, my boy, if it find a fitting object on which to lavish
out the fall tide of its feeling and its joy, tarry till it has encoun-
tered the rude blasts of the wintry storm before it clasps, at
least in memory and in thought, the object of its early adora-
tion. Grant that the object is not always a proper one? can
the affection of the mature claim that it never errs? We love
we know not why, and the instinct of the chibji which teaches
it to love may claim a direeter guidance as emanating more
immediately from the source and fountain of all true love.
I do not believe that childish love is an improper passion.
When but a child, with the face of Betty Brown daguerreotype
on my thoughts, this truth was an axiom and needed no rea-
soning to support it, and though many, many years have rolled
by between these youthful experiences and the time at which
I write, and many, many sad clouds have passed over my
spirit, and the world has grown dim and life unsteady I can
look back upon these boyish freaks, and my old heart grows
young again and I feel n~yself bounding anew with the an-
imation of this first and earliest love. Would that I had learn-
ed no other ill, and that subsequent events had not written other
and bitter experienceswhich have blurred and blotted the pages
of my life.
CJJAPTER IV.
BETTY'S BIRTh-DAY: FROLIC AT FARMER BROWN'S: BETTY CETS A
COUSIN wno hAS SOME CONNECTION WITh MY STORY.
If childish love be a folly, boyish jealousyis no trifling mat-
ter. I speak from experience.

Go~frey Ulinker, Es~q.            11)
v~.
Betty Brown w~s now quite a young lady. The day was not
far off when she was to be ushered into sweet thirteen-an
event, which it was then customary to honor by assembling all
the young folks of the neighborhood to make the hours pass
~me rrily and happily away.
Thus far. I had been regarded as Betty's especial chain-
pion-her chosen protector. Our school experiences had been
as happy as the average experiences of boys and girls who
thought more of their fa\ writes thai~ their books. We had suf-
fered for each other, even under the hands of the genial James
Thomson, a few martyrdoms in the shape of whippings for
neglected les~ons-the time which should have been spent in~
tracing out the courses of rivers and memorizing the names of
Capitols, having been occupied in the other and more delight-
ful operations of blackberry-huntin~r, push-pin and house-
building. Beside these, I had on mor~ than one occasion, taken
up the weapons of war to avenge her from real or imaginary
insults and then bore upon my person the scars of honor re-
ce~ved in this knightly service. I felt therefore that I had a
to Betty, but as my claim had never been disputed, I had
right
no
opportunity to vindicate it. Of course, her champion looked
forward with unusual interest to the day on which she was to
enter upon her teens. The day came. 11cr father's house was
prepared for a brilliant i'eception of tile young and fashionable
neighbors. Betty herself was decked out in her newest silk,
lately unported from the mother country, and wore the mem-
~orablc shoes which had been bought~ some six months before
~and reserved until this day of honor. The gay throng passed ~
the time before the hour of tea in the childish amusements d
date, a part of which has retained the ascendancy until

~


'A

12          Some Pas8age8 in the Life of
this day. There were "hunting of the slipper;" "grinding the
bottle," and beside, the exercise of memory in which "four
squeakiifg wild geese" played a distinguished part. In all of
these, as in duty bound, I was quite active and neve~ absent
from the side of Betty, save when the necessity of th9 play
(lelnanded it. The evening's amusements wore away quite hap-
pily. Then the ample feast was prepared and the youth gath-
ered about the festive board to participate in the good cheer of
farmer Brown. his stores were ai
uple and the supper was, for
that date, a inagnilkent one. True, it lacked all the elegancies
of modern life. We had neither the glare nor glitter of chan-
delievs lio'hted Pp with the brilliant lights of the present, nor
en a service of silver plate, but every thing was in keeping
with his station in' life, and was substantial and good. The
bowl of tea and the wheaten cake and the Indian corn, with the
best of fowls and venison, served sufficiently to supply our
bodily wants. After supper, ~e withdrew to the parlor, and
spent the evening in similar amusements. These were inter-
rupted by a fresh arrival. Mr. Robert Lesslie, had been men-
tioned by Betty several times in the course of th~ evening and
I noticed that there was an unusual dancing of her bright eyes
on the occasion. As soon as his name was announced, Betty
rushed to the door and threw herself into his arms and im-
printed a half dozen kisses upon his cheek. Robert was unques-
tionably a fine looking fellow. lIe wore a black suit from top
to toe, and every article of his apparel was in the neatest order.
Just of an ag~, too, to suit Betty. He but just arrived at man-
hood, and ~he in her thirteenth birth-iiight. Ii deemed it wrong
to cherish such thoughts, but they would come thronging my
brain, and though th~ hours passed by more merrily for this

*'f~,    j                            7""

aeoffrcyc11inkerB8q.13~
arrival with the rest of the company, I could not help wishing
that cousin Robert had delayed his coming a while longer. Fool-
ish boy. Robert was not in your way. - The silly little heart of
Betty Brown might have made him a rival, but he never cher-
ished the thought of wrecking thy happiness or casting thee off~
as a waif in the world without an owner.
CHAPTER V.
BETTY'S cOL~5IN. A SAD MISHAP. HOW I LOST MY WHITE HAT.
Robert I~islie was a young man of rare qualities of head and
heart. I have never known one more generous or noble. He
had been trained in the best schools of that period and had ac-
quired something more than a smattering of the Classics. His
mind had been strengthened as well as his memory st'~5red, and
on all occasions calling for the exercise of vigorous intellect or
accurate learning, Robert Lesslie was not wanting. These ex-
cellencies I had noted with some degree of anxiety, and thought
I can not say that "I marked his virtues to despise them," I
confess I should have been better satisfied if he had less. He
k~ew or, at least, I thought he know. that I looked upon him
a) a rival, and he did every thing in I powerto (lisabuse me of
tKat impression-yet I did not at the moment so understand his
excessive courtesy toward me, and his efforts to 1)e my friend.
Despite my surmises, Robert's kindness kindled within me sen-
timents of regard toward himself, and, strange to, say, in a very
few weeks we were on terms of the closest intimacy, and my
thoughts had become so entirely changed, that I felt that if
Betty were to be given up to any other person, Robert would be
niy preference-yet 1 could not consent to yield her to hini.

I

II

I


14          Some Passages in the Life of
Early one morning-I had just breakfasted-Robert met me
at the door of my father's house, and taking me by the arm,
proposed a walk to theoutskirts of the city. I could discover
that he wore a careworn look as~if all had not gone well with
him, and, as soon as opportunity offered, inquired the' cause.
In answer, he stated that it would require a detail of his life,
and he proceeded to sketch rapidly the current of his history
up to this period. Ilis career had been a chequered and a sad
one. He had commenced life with brilliant prospects. His
father was possessed of an ample fortune, which was yearly
increasing. From a child, he had gratified every wish of his
heart. He ha(l been taught at home by his mother until he
had arrived at an age to enter a neighboring collegiate insti-
tution-his only companion an elder sister. Thus he had grown I
up to boyhood and manhood, with an abiding reverence for hi
parents and the fondest devotion for his duly sister-one, of
whom he might well be proud. But the cloud had rested upon
him. his father asnd mother were both laid in their graves
and shortly after, his sister followed them. Robert was alone.
I will let him conclude his story in his own words:
*1
Thus thrown upon my own resources, with no one at home
~to cheer my drooping' spiritR or to dissipate the gloom that
hung about my path, I have for several years past spent the
vaca~Lions of ~ny collegiate ternis in tours throughout the coun-
try. Two summers ago, in one of these trips, I met with a
family on the border line between Pennsylvania and this Stat'e,~
who received me with open arms and with a friendly greeting,
such as I had received alone in the limits of Virginia. This~
was not its only attraction. A gentle daughter was the magnet
which drew me there so frequently afterwards. Lidort~ P&amp;v

aeoffrey Clinker, Esq.              15~
ton won me by her genial smiles and pure womanliness of feel-
ing. I 'will not call her an angel but I could not deem her less.
We parted just two months ago on the banks of a stream re-
sembling in its flow the beautiful river that now dances beneath
our feet. She bid me an adieu with a smile and a teai~; and we
fondly hoped that ere many months, ~we should me again.
A letter reached me a few days since, bearing tidings of her
death. She now sleeps beneath the tree on which we sat togeth-
er when last we mat, and here am I, again, a lone wanderer
over the wild waste of waters. -
Robert had scarcely finished his narrative when we were both
surprised by an outcry of terror from the river. Leaving my
companion, I rushed to the water's edge and there discovered
the source. Little Polly Dawson-of school-boy memory-had
been prevailed upon the morning in question by Mr. Jack
Dowdy to take a sail on the river. Jack had possessed himself
of a neighbor's craft, and procuring a sail large enough to run
a good sized man-of-war, the two had ventured into the stream
without other ballast than the manful heart of Jack. A sudden
whif of wind in an unexpected quarter had upset the craft, and
in dohig so emptied the precious burden, Jack 'and his Dulci-
nea, into the stream. Jack was a good swimmer. Polly was
* not an adept in the art. The former was in a quandary, but~
determining to rescue his sweetheart at the risk of his life, he
had caught her by her raven locks and was towing her safely
to the shore. Polly preferred a more substantial hold, and
catching Jack around the body, the little fellow was umible to
swim with ease, and finding himself sinking every moment,
roared lustily for help. Throwing myself into the stream, I
reached them just in time to save Polly and her lover from

IF
I!

f I
:

t


2.2

lii         Some Passages in tite Life of
..-~--.. (
under. The sail  a was reralnea and set      and
going               bot       b            upright
(we reached the shore in safety, my only loss being a new white
(hat which I had worn on the occasion. Polly and~Jack heaped K
(upon me a thousand thanks, and I thought I heard Polly sooth-
ing Jack in an undertone-" Never mind, Jack, nobody is
(hurt-mama will never know it and if she does, 'twasn't your K
fault." i envied Jack his treasure from the bottom of my heart.
~Would Betty Brown have~ treated me thus, if I had given her (
K                                                      C
such a housing? I had no time to stop to meditate. My clothes
were1
soaked through and through, and bidding the party good
morning, taking Robert by the arm, I hurried home to doff my
apparel for something more comfortable. Jack and Polly did
the same.
A
ChAPTER VI.
SOMETHING ABOUT TILE TENDER PASSION. CRUSTY OLD BACHELORS
AND GRIM CRITICS ARE REQUESTED TO SKIP OVER THIS CILAPTBR.
Thus far in niy journey through life I had owned but one god-
(                                                      C
dess-had adored but one deity. The merriest among the
C                                                      C
merry-hearted-the gayest among the gay, the loveliest among
C                                                      C
(the lovely, had no charms for me in comparison with the little
girl whom in infancy I had fondled, in boyhood I had admired,
and in manhood I had loved. Betsy was the star of my being,
the joy of my life. Rayless and cheerless would have been my
journey, were it not, (as I hoped,) to be brightened by that ray
~of sunshine. But human expectations are vain. An original
suggestion, it is true, but one which weighed upon my heart at
that time with a freshness and anxiety which one who has

- p

~eoff~wy (Junker, Esq~               ii,
not felt it could not describe. I loved, loved ardently, hope-
fully, with my entire being-with my manhood and strength.
It was not an idle passion, a whim of the moment, but it had
entered into and formed a part of my mental stature, my exist-
ence. So keenly sensitive was I on the sui~jeet, that the most
instantt allusion to the ~bject of my idolatry would crimson my
check with fire-'~ndAt times 1 have become so nervous, that
leo uld hardly pr ounce, her nam&amp; without a tremor.
Ii was hardly a lit subject, in such a state of mind. to attempt
the conquest of a heart like Betty's. She was light, joyous. gay,
happy! She could laugh and cry by turns, and seemed to take
as much delight in the one as the other. A perpetual simn~hine
settled on her head and heart, and though I bad tried once
an(l again to draw her into seriou~ oonverwttion, ~ ith a naive-
ness almost surpa~iflg description ~shc would avert the su~jcct,
and with some slight fancy, apparentlyy without etlbrt,) would
turn me ofF to pursue my meditations alone. it was manifest
to me, that all this was not the pure effect of a child-like sim-
plicity of charaetcr, though I wuld fain have believed k such.
I had determined to test the mnjtter. I chose for the attempt a
moment as opportune as any whineh circumstances would allow.
Betty was in her back parlor, when I was ushered ~dtO1
her lresenee on that evening. I found her in tears. ~ ii
knew not and scarcely dared to inquire. I had met on my way
one who might ha~ e had some connection with it, and the
thought itself was daggers to me. It was not iobert Lesslie. I
~Concealing as fir as practicable my surprise en the occasion I I
drew near her seat, and taking' her hand in mine, began a sen- I
ous talk upon the subject. She dii iiot withdraw it, (the hand,)
but let it lie there just as if it were my own. I felt that it1
2                 _

,~

if
I,
'ii

.4
14
1~'


K'            ""

~5~~
5'

18          Some Passages in the Life of
ought to be, and gaining courage from the fact, entered boldly
upon my task. She listened to me patently, while I proceeded
to speak of my boyish love, my youthful devotion, how I had
never bowed before another shrine, and, looking her calmly in~
the face, my heart beating a tattoo the while, I asked her
to pledge me in return for my bye the oiily price which I
would accept-herself! She heard it all-calmly, passively
thout a movement-and in words which now bu~im into my
art while I write~ them-she stated that I had lost the golden
oment-I had spoken too late-her heart and her life were
edged to another and could never be mine! ! ! This she ut-
tered in the same calm manner and without expressing any
surprise, or even sympathy, proceeded to turn the conversation
upon some other topic. She never looked more beautiful in
person-yet I thought her instantly transformed. An angel
she had been to me-a bright winged messenger of love and
peace. She had in a moment been con~ erted into a messongcr~
I of destructiom-of woe. I hardly knew how to comprehend her
language. I could not believe it true. A few shorf~ weeks' de-
lay had s'eale~ my fate-and Betty Brown, the pride of my
heart, the joy of my existence, had passed into the hands of ano-
ther-and that other !-but Ii must let the tears that now flUb
so freely while I write, blot out the conclusion of the sentence.
Perhaps in another hour I may have the boldness to record it.
To continue, I left the house with far other feelings than those ~'
with 'which I had entered it. In a moment the current of my
existence seemed to change, and instead of flowery meads, and
pleasant jourucyings, which in my dreams I had pictured, the
future seemed pregnant with dark clouds about to burst in
angry torrents over my head.

Goffrey (JUnker, Esq.               19~
CHAPTER VII
rismi or ANOTHER SORT. A WHOLE 5T~W OP FRESh ONES.
If amiy of my mime, into whose hands this manuscript should
fall, shall imagine that I died of a broken heart, because of the
occi~rrences previously detailed, they are sadly mistaken. It
is a ~motto with the C1ink~r family-' nOver to give up for trifles,'
and Though Ii (lid at the time regard Betty Brown's conduct as
a very serious trifle, I would have been heartily ashamed of
myself 'to have ~huflbed off the mortal coil' I~)r her or any body
else. But I came as near to it as 1)Ossible. I took to. my bed
and kept it for several weeks in succession, a thing so very re-
markable in our annals as a family, that I cannot forbear re-
cording it for the benefit of posterity. When I arose, however,
it was with new feelings and new hopes-not that I had forgot-
teniny earliest love. That I have never (lone, though my hairs
are now whitened by more than threescore winters, ~n(l she
has, togetherr with her affianced one, passed over the (lark
valley-where I must ere long follow her. But my thoughts
were directed to another object, if not as mild or as lovely,
certainly as pure and childlike and angelic.
Next door to my father's mansion in which I then lived, there
had dwelt for a short period a family of English extraction,
lately removed from that country tO this, who had sought the~
city in which we lived for its retirement and ease. It was
rumored to be wealthy, but no evidence of this was given in
the exterior of the house they dwelt in, or in their apparel.
They were a frugal, industrious and cheerful family, consisting
of a half-dozen sons and ~n only daughter; both father and mo-
ther were alive; and they dwelt in comparative seclusion, never

I

V

I
'I

5-5
51
5"
p.
F

s


U
V )1

20          Some Passages in the ]4e ~t*
for the space of many weeks and months at a time, intruding'
into the mansion of a neighbor save on some special occasion,-
such as sickness or the like. The old lady was a matron in
~1srael-aboundin~ in charities and in the short of time
she had spent in the city previously to this, had succeeded in
endearing all the poor to herself by her kind deeds. The sons
thoughtful, steady boys, WJi() followed the occupation of
farming, and were never known to make the concerns of their
neighbors, either their fortunes or their character, a matter of
speculation or talk. Such families are exceedingly rare, ~incl
when they are found they deserve to be noted. It was during
my illness that I first formed my acquaintance with the Charmi-
ons, amid here too I met with the angel which was to beckon inc
on in my future career and to gladden and bless my life. Jane
(5harmion was a girl of some sixteen summers, though one not~
f'uniliar with her age would have thouo'ht her much further ad-
vanced. At this period she used to dress in a handsome black
plaid frock without other ornament to her person tham~ a simple
cameo which she wore in memory of an endeared relative who
had left it to her as a memento of affection. Jane was the
companion of her mother in all her missions of mercy, and
ventured even farther sometimes than the caution incident to
old age would allow her mother to do. During my long illness,
she was my constant attendant, anticipating every wish and
gratifying every want and whim with the tenderness and soli-
citude of a sister. I verily believe that to her kind attentions
and assiduous care I owed my life. This from a comparative
stranger was too much for one constituted as I was. Jane
little thought how necessary her presence became before the
termination of my illness and how much I desired it after my

G~eoJfrey Ulinker, Bsq.             21
recovery. She had planted beside my younger love another,
which, as will be seen, was destined to bring forth other fruiL
ChAPTER ~\TIhJ
It was not without  purpose-that resolve-nor has it been
without its results. It was formed after the best m~eflection that
one in my state of nerves could then have given it, and heave~be~
thanked, it has been kept, m'eligiouslv kept, in its letter and
spirit.
I resolved to marry Jane Charmnion.
Jane had evCry requisite to make mue happy. 11cr associa-
tions were agreeable, her conversation interesting, her manners
almost incomparable. She had a good heart, had spent an ac-
tive youth, was, in short, just the woman my dear mother)
would have selected for me had she been alive. And my aunt
said, she bore a striking resemblance to Nancy. This would
have been enough of itself to alter the current of my feelings,
but they had been altered before.
The next thing to be (lone after forming a resolution, is to put)
it in Practice-and this I did, after ~i fashion. I knew that
Jane Charmion had heard of my attachment to Betty Brown.
It was the town talk, and had been so for years, and Betty, her-
self, was no stranger to Jane. I had seen them together more
than once. To break the matter abruptly to ~Jane just now
would have been consummate folly, madness.
My friendship grew apace with the family I have described,
and in a short period I found myself as cordially attached to
them, as if I had known them all my life.

'A


I ~
ii'.

I

&amp;me Pcls8ctges in, the Lfe of
James Charmion, though not the sprightliest of her brothers,
was certainly a boy of ~i~connnonly vigorous intellect.
I had favorable opportunities of testing its strength on my
visits to his father's htnise, which at this period were by no
means infrequent. An intimacy grew up between un and my-
self which prolnise(l to wax into a warm and si cere friendship.
He had far more learning than I could boast, and was much~
more faniiliar with the literature of his own country, but I was
prompter, of quicker intellect, anti could enjoy a joke with,
much more avidity and zest. We began to be on the best pos-
sible terns with each other. Never a day passed, in which we
did not spend a few hours in company to our mutual edification
and improvement. Jane was with us frequently at these inter-
views, and was not an indifferent or unobservant spectator. ~
Gradually she grew fonder and fonder of them. Iler brother
once remarked in our presence he thought Jane and I were
made for each other! The thing may never have occurred to
Jane's mind before-but it certainly had occurred to mine, and,
though I blush to say it, I was clad it was spoken, as it opened~
the way into anti explained sundry little attentions which be-'
fore Jane had received at my hands. In a moment, they seemed
to flash upon her in a new light, and I observed that afterwards,
whenever I brought any little present for her, if it was reeci-
~ ved. she would attempt to screen her face as if it were doing
something it oughtuot to-I think she blushed ! Thus matters
went on. Betty Brown, meanwhile, was not tbrgotten. At I
times, the memory of h~r sad conduct or of my own indiscreet
delay (I hardly knew which,) would rush upon me, when I
was in the presence of Jane, and I could not restrain a sigh.
Yet I had tried to forget her-and determined never again to~

aeuffrey Clinker, Es
mention her name to another-and s far as possible to keep
aloof from her society, and that of icr courtier.
CHAPTER IX.
JIM BOWYRS, AND IllS GREY COAT.
n ~ ~vcre injustice to the reader of these annals to overlook a
oted character who figured in the days of which I write.
Jni BOWERS was a man of mark. lie had never been accused
of modesty, else he might have blushed at the charge. He
never blushed at any other, though several had been preferred
against him of which the criminal courts of the country bore
ample testimony. But Jim had thus far escaped the hangman
and was yet in the land of the living ready to accomplish any
feat of prowess from the robbing of a hen-roost to the bolder
and more arduous enterprise of invading the hog-pens of his
neighbors.
Jim was a fellow of some shrewdnesst had a good deal of
"mother-wit," and enjoyed an enviable reputation for cooking
the best suppers and making the best barbecues in the county.
So that, with all his frailties, (and who has not frailties?) he
was tolerated in the community. Indeed, he could not well I
have been spared.
I met Jim once near Mr. Dowdy's poultry-yard shortly after
he old man had laid in a fresh stock of fowls previous to one of
was evidently surprised to see me, but he put the best
he festive occasions he was in the habit of giving his parishion-
ace on the matter, and at once entered upon the most tender
and touching inquiries in regard to my health. lie had heard

A
1~'

I


~1
I
~

:L~-/ ~j~Y

24          Some Pa~sage~ in tite Life of
that I had been in a monstrous bad" fix and was. glad to see
me out. Branching out from one subject to another, he man-
aged to get my ear and, as he thought, to divert my attention
altogether froni the fact that he was where he ought not to be.
At length he touched upon a theme which havLg some slight
connection with this biography, his words may be repeated.
"Mass Clinker, I hearn tell you gwine to marry that Miss
Ja~ne Cha~nine-is itso? mighty nice gal-Mass Clinker! that
she is. A'nd what's more, the old man has mighty nice fixing
and things for a son-in-law."
Jim's interrogatory went unanswered, but I agreed with him
as to the merits of the family.
"Well, Mass Clinker, he! he! I wonder you don't make
haste about it-arter you known how you were cut out of Miss
Betsy by that fool face Tom Ilardin. Tom IJai~di~was a mighty
book-larut man, they say, but didn't have sense enough for Miss
Betsy. I knowed Miss Betsy ever since she was so high-not
as high as my knee-and I was inolistreus sorry she took him,
a brazen-faced fellow, to you."
"Jim! you judge Mr. Hardin too ~y. lie was a very
proper man in his way and you must learn to speak with more
respect of white persons."
"Well, now, Mass Clinker, I didn't intend to say any thing
about Mr. Ilardin, but lie played the cu~sedest trick upon
me once you ever hearn tell on. You see this coat, Mass Chin-
(
her. This coat's gone through the wars, I tell you. Miss Betsy-
that used to be-give me this coat. It was a long time ago, and
I had run of an e~vnd for her and come back in a great hurry,
and Miss Betsy went up into her father's room and brought
down this old coat-it was then nearly new-and asked inc if

acoifrey (i7inker, Esq.            25
wouldd fit. Well, it did fit, and II have had it ever since. But
I am getting away from Mr. Hardin. Mr. Hardin shortly arter
he married Miss Betsy went to live at Mass John's house-you
know where he lives-and I was there just on a visit, you know,
sitting down in the kitchen 'mong the colored folks, reeking
myself with the odors as they rose from the stewed chicken (it
was near dinner time.) I had not been to Mr. Brown's before
for a long time and had never seen Mr. liardin, but who should
pop in just while I wa~ setting there but the gentleman himself.
In a decent sort of way II ~ot up and offered him a seat when
he flew in a passion and asked 'who the deuce' I was and what
I was doing there? I deigned to give him a civil answer and to
tell him that I was a neighbor of his and had come on a visit to
his folks when he drove me out of the door and~ told inc to take
myself away. I was never treated so before and I have been to
white folks houses ever seuce I knowed myself. Poor Miss
Betsy ! she was mighty mortified when she heard me tell on it.
But the man was in liquor and I suppose he was somewhat
excusable on that account. And, if he had stopped there, after
driving me out, I should have been better satisfied; but he
actually ordered me to be whipped, and those rude niggers
~ caught hold of inc and stripped me, tearing the white sleeve of
my coat, and whipped inc like a rogue! And, now, while I
~ think on it, m~r old coat is getting much th~ worse for wear,
Mass Clinker, and if you liaye the likes on it at home, I would
like to get one after the same pattern."
I promised Jim the coat and we parted. Since then I have
~ learned that Jim~ s version of the whipping story differs mate-
rially from the true state of the matter. He had only changed
the venue, as a lawyer would say, in time and place, from the;.

3
i


K                                                                                                                -~                                                                 4'-

'V

'p
V
jji
Ill
114
i~
'11
V

26          Some Pc&amp;sctges in the Life of
barnyard to the kitchen, and from the hour of 10 P. M. to the
hour of 4. But Jim's memory was never very exat.
TILE I'AR5ON'5 FROLIC.  ChAPTER X.
ROBERT LESLIE AND SALIAB DAWSON. JIM
ROWERS' 5 COI~RT51IJP.               )
If I preserved an accurate diary of the doings and sayings of
this period, instead of writing a book of readable dimensions,
I should be emulating at least in size, the vast tomes which
barristers parade on their book-shelves to inspire terror in the
uninitiated, and I fear that even you, my boy, would imitate the
aforesaid barristers in allowing your father's '~Life" to lie be-
tore you unopened, unread. I shall, thei~cfore, omit what is not
absolutely necessary to the current of my history.
It was not long after the hero of the grey coat had narrated
to me the unfortunate accident which befel him, when the same
coat played a distinguished part on another and more satisfac-
tory occasion to its owner. Parson Dow~y, as his manner was,
was about to give his annual feast of good things to his parish-
ioners, in the shape 'of a superb dining party. It wouldibe no
discredit to a better preacher than himself to say that these an-
nual festivals were much more highly prized than ~he weekly
feasts which h&amp; was in the habit of dispensing from the village
church. We are apt to value a thing in proportion to its rarity,
and when the parson invited the parish to come t~ his annual
feast for the body they all caine-as to his Weeklies, they were
rather slimly atte~ded. For fear that some one might accuse
the people of that period of great lack of piety, on this account,
I may just add that in this regard they all strictly followed th~
/

aeoffrey clinker, Esq.
example of their preacher-it being a x~ell understood fact that
Parson Dowdy, himself, as partial as he was to his ~wn ~nd
his double, and the village church, was a little more partial to
a good dinner or a glass of claret. But away with discussions
of the sort. The parson's party was to come off shortly, and as
a matter of course, Jim Bowers was in demand. Jim did him-
selfjustice on the occasion. It was beyond all question the best
dinner ever gotten up in that locality, and the praises of our
guest, and the hero of the great coat were sounded on all hands.
The feast was a feast of fat things, and the entire parish, i. e.
its inhabitants young and old, flocked to the pars6nage to partake
of its hospitable cheer. Could I daguerreotype the scene for you,
~ in y son, you would have a full length portrait of my native
~ village in the year 1773 done up in its handsomest colors. Of
K course, every body wore his smiles that day. My little friends
Jack and Polly were in the merriest mood. Jack was always
~ something of a wag but his peculiar excellences in that line
never shone more brightly than on that occasion. Here was a
couple deeply immersed in the mysteries of small talk, and
K. over there a plain honest old planter was holding forth on the
K.
virtues of his tobacco crop, evidently elated by the news of the
last       which had just reached him.  He had a copy of
K the Gazette in his pocket. Here a gentleman with a red face
wasdiscussing the relations of the colonies to the crown, and
just opposite a bevy of girls were amusing themselves and their
~ieghbors by charades and conundrums, occasionally interrup-
ted by a merry laugh that rung through your brain and made
~ your heart glad that this is not altogether a weeping world.
The Parson was an ubiquitous personage on the occasion, with
young and old, matron and maiden, though I observed he was in
* We j*/ 0~~P pe&amp;~.4~r 'D1ftI1.eIT~sEC

~ V
4 4
4',
I

4
L.


/

I
'V
U
I
i~f
~1~1
~iJ~i
p
1K
11
~i1
4'
43

4
28          Some Passages in the ~       of
great measure the companion of the red faced polith~d gentle-
man, and they would frequently, while excited in talk, draw
neftr, as if involuntarily, to the punch-bowl, and sip pretty free-
ly of its contents. There were jolly parsons in those good old
times, my boy-and though I cannot say, their example made
us any better, they were at least a more cheerful race of men,
and, in some instances, I dare believe, more pure hearted and
true than many who now decry them.
I searched the room for Jane Charmion. She certainly in-
tended coming but something had interfered, and being thus
left to (10 as I pleas&amp;, I was in quest of an adventure, when
Robert Lesslie entered the room, with a lady under his charge,
~ who has been mentioned before in this history. Polly's sister,
Sallie, was a fine model of the lady of elder time. I cannot de-
scribe her dress on the evening of that day-but it was superbly
~ elegant. There was that, too, in the graceful sweop of her w~lk,
and her erect form, and flashing eyes, which at once arre)ed
~ every eye in the assembly. Even the red faced gentleman ~top-
ped for an instant to admire. Robert himself was clad in his
usually simple attire, and seemed to be in a more cheerful mood
than usual. In a few moments I found myself engaged in
earnest conversation with the couple, and thus contrived to
while away the time.-
Well, friend Dowdy," remarked the red faced gentleman,
more cheerful, "you have done yourself credit in the selection."
for a season, leaving the discussion of~ politics for something
"Not at all, Mr. B. I could not have chosen any other.
His reputation is now without a ~ivai in that line. his services
are invaluable and with all his faults, I should regret his being
stretched."
-P~ 2~.b.e SWq i~%   ~44V.0t
'U            .                      4

i~ ~i
4

MA

aeoffrey Clinker, E~q.              29
This snatch 9 conversation was doubtless intended for the
hero of the grey Ooat. Just at this moment that gentleman en-
tered the room with an enornio ~ waiter of good things loaded
to the l)rim. Jim was happy. lie had fon his identical grey
coat, and his ivory glittered beneath his pper lip in significant
attestat'io of the amount of felicity lie experienced. I detailed
to my co anion the story of the coat.
"Just i ie him," Sallie replied. "lie has repeated that iden-
tical stor at least a dozen times, and never fails to create a
sympathy which he hopes will result in substantial advantage
to himself. have von ever heard his courtship ?"
"I was not aware that Jim ever suffered with the tender
passion.
"Indeed he did. My father's house was the scene of his ad-
ventures, and as they are somewhat unique I will detail them.
Dinah and Judy-they are my fathers servants-were each
desperately taken with Jim on his first visit in this region of
country. All day long they would snap at each other without
the slightest conceivable cause, and as Judy was our washer-
woman and Dinah the cook, they were each mutually gratified
with frequent opportunities to annoy the other. Dinah was the
better looking, but Judy, so Jun had heard, was possessed of
the more ample fortune, i. e the latter could boa~t a new teas-
ter and bureau, and the former had neither of these very useful
articles. Jim was therefore at a standstill between the rival
candidates for his person and honors. One visit he would be-
stow more favors on Dinah, and the next he would flatter Judy;
and in this manner lie succeeded for a series of months in
keeping those charmers in the delightful state of' anxiety and
humor incident to such occasions. Thus far Jim had been


11
is
ii
SjTh
A
Iv
Ill

Some Passages in the Life of
~            ,~
without a contestant for the honors of either ha~yl, but, sud-
denly, as if by magic, a host of coidred gentlemen invaded m -
fat her's mansion, each in search of a wife. Here was a bother.
The selection was to be made. Jim decided the matter, and the
wealthier Judy was his choice. In due season he made known
to her his intentions, and the lassie at once acceded to them
The day was appointed, but in the course of events before the
~ happy season arrived, Jim, who now felt himself authorized to
S inquire more particularly, began to discuss matters subsequent
to their marriage in a familiar style and contrived to hint at the
nice pieces of property they would have to start with-enume-
~ rating the identical articles which had curedd his affection.
Judge of his astonishin~nt when he learned that they were
S the possession of the fair Dinah, who had placed them in the
keeping of her neighbor because she had more than she had
room f~r in her apartment. Meanwhile Dinah's hand had been
sued for and won, and the faithless Jim was about to leap into1
the gulf of matrimony, without securing the object of his affec-
tions. Alexander-like, he cut the Gordian knot by at ohee
declaring that he couldn't think of undertaking so responsible
a relation in life without the means to make them comfortable,
and as his fair Judy had them not, she must wait until he se-
cured them! Since then, Jim has studiously eschewed the pre-
mises, and it is rumored he is now engaged in making obser-
vations in a different quarter of the heavens. Judy, poor girl,
wept for awhile-but she has taken to her washtub again, and
is as cheerful-hearted as if the faithless hero of the grey-coat
had never stormed the citadel of hei~ affections."
Thus the hours wore on. Other subjects were introduced on
the tapis and dispatched. Betty Brown and her husband--

I

/                                          I

Geoffrey Ulinker, Beq.              31~
Polly Dawso n and Jack-Parson Dowdy and his dinners and
his sermons were all severally served up for our edification and
amusement, and ivh~n we parted with Miss Sallie at her door
at
th evening, I thought her a charming creature-so she was.
-              ('HAPTEli XY.~
JANE cHARMLON.
But tell me something of your matters with Jane. What~
became of her?
To all appearances that young lady was as well off at home
as any where else. The evening of the Parson's frolic, she had
spent in company with a relative who had visited the city, and
this accounted for her absence. She was not, however, indiffer-~
ent to what transpired at Parson I)owdy's a~d on my first visit
to her afterwards, which was the next morning, I was surprised
to learn that she could tell the n ne of every body there, with
all they did and much of what they had said. The matter
was readily explained when I learned that his Highness of the
grey coat had breakfasted in the kitchen of Mr. Champion that
morning. Jim had been the evening before unusually attentive
to our little party, and I did not discover his object until the
affair leaked out in this way.
Jane met me with a smile that morning-an arch smile that
K d something in it, but just then I did not choose to interpret
italoud.~ She was in error.
We were now on the best possible terms with each other.
* Just here I have eliminated a series of chapters not necessary to the
detail of Mr. Clinker's life.                 r. xv.


{

32          Surne Pa.~ages in the L~j~ of
There had never a word been uttered on either side, yet it Was
all understood and she thought she had a right to my society,
and I acknowledged it, claiming hers in return. This state
of affairs remained for several years. Meanwhile, Tom Hardin
and his wife had removed from the neighborhood to a distant
county. Robert Lesslie had entered upon the practice of the
law and was gradually rising in his profession. I~'Dawson
and her admirer Jack were on as good terms as ever, and there
were but few of the old company in the same condition in life
in which they had been just ten years before. Parson Dowdy
yet held on and gave his annual feast at the old parsonage. We,
however, had experienced sad changes. I was left alone, after
laying in the grave a father anti an endeared 'aunt, and Jane
had performed the same solemn offices to her aged parents.
Just then, we felt the need of the new association which had
long been agreed upon between us and we were united in the
old village church, Parson ~JI~dy officiating on the occasion in
the presence of a numerous assemblage of-blacks and whites.
Ten months after a new entry adorned the old Family Bible,
which lay on the able in the dining room. It was written in
the legible han of the venerable parson: "BORN, James, son
of Geoffrey Clinker and Jane his wife on this 2nd day of Oct.,
1783, and christened by me.-JAMEs DOWDY."
CHAPTER XVI.
CONCLUSION.
The old Family Bible contains now other entries which with
trembling hand~ and feeble pen I have traced upon its pages.
~fane and myself spent several years of happiness together,

I
~tI
4

~~eqjfreyC1zfl1cerEsq.33~
a~appiness beclouded however by the death of a cherub girl,
a meek, gentle child who left us while yet without the impress
of earth upon her soul. And the messenger came again to bear
away the companion of my mature years from her home on
earth to her home in heaven. her eldest born and the young-
est sleep beside her in the village church yard, and you, my boy,
are left alone to transmit the memory and the nameof youij
f~ither's house.
*.     *      *      *      *      w
Thus far in this chronicle of an old man's life, for the use of an
only child. That child has since ripened into manhood, has
married, has died, leaving a little boy, his very image, behind
him.
To the reader it may not be without profit to sketch rapidly
the career of others who have passed before us.
Robert tesslie continues the practice of his profession. The
early sorrow has never ceased to agitate his manly heart, and
though he has since been elevated to high political positions, he
still wears the sad smile, and whenever he talks with me of
the olden time. his eyes fill with tears and he heaves a deep
sigh~-whi~h~Q1ne5 welling up from the deep fountains of his
heart and tells of the loss of an early love.
Betty Brown lies beneath the willow which casts its grateful
shade over her grave on the right, as you enter the church
yard. Her husband in his new home had met with one reverse
after another and becoming evei~y day more dissolute, he had
run the gauntlet of vice and terminated his life in a dungeon to
which he had been confined on a charge of felony. Poor Betty
returned to her old abode with a broken heart, just as I had
3


Y

34 Some Passages ~ ~he Life of aeoffrey Clinker.
laid i~i~he grave the mother and natural protector of my lost
boy. s~d story had already reached me and I at once
offered, er a home in my house. There she remained until
the day of her death, and as I write, Ben, my boy's boy, has drawn
near his grandpa's table and in his simple touching manner
asks me "Why I weep? is it for ma-ma ?" I can not unravel
to him the stery and I confide to after ~tears these revelations of
a pobr old man. When he opens them, as I shall direct him
to do, after I have passed hence, he will then know what now1
my heart fails me to tell.
Jun Bowers is still the hero of the grey coat. lie has not
yet been helped outof the world by the hand of the hangman,
and as Jim has latterly 1~ecome a reformed citizen, it is hoped
he~will die in a na{uraly~ay. Since his defection in the case of
the fair Judy he has rie.ver essayed the hardships of love and
promises to become a confirmed Benedict.
Polly Dawson has long since become Pohly iDowdy and they
live over the old stand of honest John Grocer and are as merry,
as cheerful, and 'as happy as on the day I first met them in the
school house of genial James Thomson.
I

REPRODUCED FROM THE COPY IN THE
H~NRYE. HUNTiNGTON LIBRARY
FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION
(

It
4
I

11                                                                                                                                                                                                        '6
I                                                                                                                                                                                                      $~lt
'I                                                                        I

II,.
I
it,
4
i
jt.
1,
A
Ill
J~:i
r

(


  
             
         
       
   
