
    ----CITATION----
        Story, James P.. Choisy .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7944
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Choisy 
            
               I

.4

JT~2~

CH OISY

A NOEL.

BY JAMES P. STORY.

B O ST
JAMES R. OSGOOD
LATE TICKNOR &amp; FIELDS, AND
1 875

O.N:
AND COMPANY,
FIELDS, OsGooD, &amp; .0

" Judge her love by her life."
LUCILE.


'~   ~   ) '-I?

I
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1872,
BY JAMES R. OSGOOD &amp; CO*,
in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.

Cx

IU\
St. ~i 5~S
UNIVERSITY PRESS: WELCh, J3IGELoW, &amp; Co.,
CAMBRIDGE.

CHAPTER I.
KNAVES AND ACES.
S OMEWIIAT past the hour of eleven,
one bitter cold night in December, in
the midst of one of those terrible snow-
storms that occasionally visit New York,
a hack might have been seen forcing its
passage among the drifts that filled Broad-
way, the horses floundering desperately
under the lash of the brutal driver. It
crept slowly up from Delmonico's at Cham-
bers Street, and paused at the door of
an up-town club. Its occupants, two gen-
tiemen, emerged and entered the house,
after bidding coaches to wait, - an order
which lie received without responding, be-
ing engaged in hurriedly throwing the blan-
kets over his steaming horses; which done
he addressed himself vigorously to the prac-
tice of gymnastics with legs and arms, paus-
ing only to make futile efforts to resuscitate
the consoling spark in his short clay pipe,
and exploding in anathemas over his fail-
ure.
The two gentlemen, whom we may now
inspect as they enter the warm precincts of
the card-room, would be collectively de-
scribed as young men, though it is probable
that a wide difference exists between their
ages, - how wide, however, it is not easy to
determine. The elder has that wonderfully
clear olive complexion which tells no tales;
and though you feel instinctively that his is
a face marvelously preserved rather than
young, you are puzzled, nevertheless, when
it is a question of years. Either would have
been called a handsome man: the elder was
strikingly so; while there was a peculiar
charm in the face of the younger which
never failed to attract, and which it was yet
impossible to define. XVe who knew him
often vainly endeavored to analyze the secret
of Chancy Wales's physiognomy; it seemed
to be something in the turn of his head which
brought the frank face full before your own;
something in the quick glance ~of the big,
brown lion's eyes with their baby lashes, in-
expressibly winning, but not to be de-
scribed; it gave you a little heart-warming,

at any rate, and made you wonder if he had
a sister who looked like him. Tom Harris
was wont to say that Charley won more
friends by his good looks than most mem (10
by kindly deeds, though it is not to be iii-
ferred that he was lacking in these. As fbr
his companion, Dick Huntley, every one who
toiled five hours daily under the shadow of
Trinity, in the days I write of; knew that
face with its spotless Italian skin, its blazing
black eyes, and the famous long mustache
which were the envy of masculine New
York.
A chorus of welcomes greeted the new-
comers, the younger of whom, at least, was
a prime favorite at the club. They had
been dining at Del's, down town, Hmintley
said. "I had just gone around for a quiet
steak, you know, when whom should I
stumble on but the irrepressible, whose
movements are ever characterized by a sub-
lime disregard of time and place. I had an
excuse for dining at nine o'clock; but why
he should have been foraging at that un-
sccmly hour is a matter fbr grave specula-
tion. Whatever he had been up to, I 'II
testify that it gave him a famous appetite;
he has consumed more beef in the last two
hours than I thought it possible for mortal
man to devour. If all the jeunesse dore'e
equalled him in gastronomic prowess, we
should have a famine in the land; and as
for wine, be is Bacehus redivivus!"
We laughed at the speaker. None of us
loved the man, who never entirely discarded
a certain vague sarcasm in his ready flow of
words; but, too clever to be ignored, and
especially as Charley's friend, he held a
certain title to our friendly consideration.
"What does he say?" cried the younger,
turning to Huntley with a laugh, - the rare
merry laugh that was so contagious; "he 's
nothing if not criticaL' Just as if he did n't
know I never dine at the barracks stormy
evenings!"
By this term the young man dignified a
palatial brown-stone front on the avenue of
avenues, as by the equally idiomatic appel-
lation of "mill" he designated a certain
bank office down town, wherein he figured

C rf,

CHOISY.
-4-----


CHOISY.                                                        KI~AVES AND ACES.                 5

in a mild capacity a part of each day. Of
real "barracks" and real "mills" it is prob-
able he had a very hazy idea indeed.
"As for the charges preferred," he con-
tinued, assuming the forensic with fine
effect, "they are weak inventions of the
enemy," (" Hear!") "made to cover his own
sin. I have always observed" (" Hear!")
"that men in Mr. Huntley's position inva-
riably adopt the poor refuge of Father Adam
in the matter of the apples."
"Charles, my boy," said Iluntley, blow-
ing a far-reaching column of smoke from be-
neath his mustache, "you are profane!"
At the same moment he drew out his watch
and consulted it with close attention. This
seemed a rather absurd thing to do, with
that fine clock from Tiffany's staring him in
the face; but the movement had the desired
effect: it caught Charley's attention, and
the young man suddenly turned, saying,
"Ah! there 's Simms, - want to see him,"
and moving away as he spoke.
It is not every club or other confraternity
of genial souls that can boast the possession
of so estimable a functionary ns Sinmis, -
Mr. William Slinnis, - steward, purveyor,
housekeeper, and general domestic manager
at th~ Mayflower. In making this asser-
tion I feel sure of the hearty support of
every member of that eminently high-toned
association. It would be a pleasing though
voluminous task to enumerate the many
excellent and endearing qualities of this
our keeper of the keys; but it must suffice
for the present to say that his most con-
spicuous claim to our general regard lay in
his services in the capacity of the metaphor-
ical "uncle," a sort of bank of accommoda-
tion on legs. He carried at all times an old
- ~nd somewhat greasy-looking wallet secured
by a long tongue of leather, and which was
of such exceptionally large proportions that
some of the younger members facetiously
termed it a "valise." In this was ever to
be found an unfailing supply of the circulat-
ing medium, and for this reason, chief among
many others, the Lares on the hearthstone
were not more respected at the Mayflower
than Simms's antique and well-lined book.
Most of us could recall the days when its
contents comprised an assortment in charm-
ing variety of the crisp, gray notes of many
kinds, - dear to our hearts, when green-
backs and national banks were undreamed-
of possibilities; but no one could remem-
ber that it had ever been less grenfy or less
worn. It was our convenient treasury at
all times; and even if one is rich, as I trust
my reader is and as we all hope to be some
day, emergencies may happen when the ready
purse of the humblest friend is a blessing to
be grateful for. The same customs prevail
in different lands; and as I hear young
Sawyer, who is playing whist yonder at

rather high figures for points, call on Simms
for "fifty more~" so has it been my fortune
to hear Monsieur le Baron Depenser, at the
Cerele Massena in the beautiful city of
Nice, demand of Gabriel, "Donimez-moi done
encore cent louis"; and Gabriel is only our
friend Simms reduced to the dimensions of
le gart~on suisse. It was always comfortable
to have Simms about, and he always was
about precisely at the critical moment;
so obliging too, and of course you felt no
compunctions in drawing on him. You gave
him little memoranda, to be sure, of the va-
rious amounts received from him, antI some-
times, after a bad lot of cards, it was really
surprising to find what a number of tens
and twenties you were in for on his account;
but again, luck would run in your favor, and
you would clear the score on the spot; and
of course you never fiiiled to do the hand-
some thing by Simums, who was so grateful
and so glad you had won your money back.
I never knew him to lose that invariable
pleasant smile which implied such a depth
of humble respect; not even when l)OO~
Weakly, who, after stealing half a million
from the Bank of Blank, had also made a
serious inroad on Simms's exchequer, and
"pai(l all debts" by blowin~ out his brains.
He saul "Poor gentleman!" very sadly
when he heard of it, and there was as little
disturbance of the pleased arrangement of
his features then, as this night when Char-
ley Wales came up and asked a loan of two
hundred dollars.
"Certainly, sir, very happy indeed; will
you step this way?" And Charley got his
money out of the trusty old receptacle which
had never been known to fail but once, -
the night that Fred C- lost thirteen
thousand to the bogus "Pole" at e'carte' in
the winter of 185-.
The two friends left the club almost un-
mediately after Charley had effected his
loan, and old Ted Byrnes, sitting near,
glanced at me significantly over his paper
as the door closed on them. As I looked
back inquiringly, he elevated his shaggy
brows, and sententiously remarked, "Sup-
per-time at Sam Worthington's in half an
hour; deuced fine suppers he has too.
Young Wales is having his fling all around
apparently."
I say" Oh!" only, and Byrnes subsides
behind his journal. 1 am only ojme of Char-
ley's countless friends; I like him immensely,
and he is pleased to give me some evidence
of a reciprocal feeling; but I am not au-
thorized to criticism his goings up and down,
and if he chooses to sup at Sam Worthing-
ton's or any other midnight table, it is en-
tirely his own affair. I am rather sorry, to
be sure; if I were sufficiently intimate to
warrant the liberty, I might be tempted to
sttggest to him that the convives at Worth-

ington's sometimes found the feast more ex-
pensive than even its rare viands would
lead them to expect. As I am not, I hold
my peace to Chancy and to shrewd old Ted
also, and, bundling into my wraps, plod
homeward through the snow, just as the
hack, with its half-frozen driver on the box
and the two men within, goes plunging
through the drifts around the corner.
It is but a short way from the Mayflower
to the handsome house in a side street where
dwells the gentleman alluded to above as
the dispenserr of nocturnal cheer. A quarter
of an hour brought the hack to his residence,
and Charley bounded up the steps, while his
coml)anion pause(l to have a word with the
coaches. The broad steps, as well as the
walk before the mansion, were cleanly
swept, - a condition rare enough on such
nights as this even in that aristocratic local-
ity; but Mr. Worthington was a personage
whose domestic arrangements, from the
street-sweeping outside to the minutest de-
tail within, bordered on perfection. A vig-
orous pull of the bell was instantly followed
by the opening of a curiously concealed
panel in the groutid-glass of the inner door,
and through this a face of ebony, in which
kindness and dignity struggled for predomi-
namice, looked out with polite but scrutiniz-
ing eyes. The rapi(lity of this inspection
was such that the invective levelled at the
dusky guardian by Huntley, who "could n't
abide the d-d nonsense of guarded doors,
with all the snows of Russia in the air," was
uttered in the rosy glow of a widely opened
portal, across which and the brilliantly
lighted hall beyond the new-comers betook
themselves to a cloak-room. Here several
other representatives of Afric's trodden race
- smooth, sleek, well-dressed blacks (and
nothing in nature is so smooth and sleek,
being well dressed, as they) - stood, brush
in hand, in graceful readiness to divest the
gentlemen of their top-coats and render the
myriad small services of the toilet. Never
hope, reader mine, to receive such attentions
with equal skill and tenderness in any other
land than this, or from an other hand than
Sambo's: your gar~on coiffeur of the Palais
Royal or your oily paruechiere of the Tole-
do; the clumsy wretch who comes to the
call of "Boots" in a London tavern; and
the yellow-haired, strong-sn~elling barbarian
of the Lindenstrasse; - all these are frauds
and deceptions when compared with our
~     jovial black genius of the wisp-broom. In
the benighkd Old World, Sambo and his
graceful wisp are alike unknown.
Highly pleased was the foremost digni-
tary with Huntley's familiar salutation.
"Joe, you shade of Dis! you grow blacker
every day. By Jove! we '11 have you
skinned for the fleece to hang P the heavens
for funerals ! - Easy with that boot!"

Joe showed two magnificent rows of teeth
and laughed hysterically after the manner
of his race, the others joining con arnore,
until the room gleamed with ivory and echoed
with their deep guffaws. A moment later
the dark faces sobered again into utter in-
expressiveness; but an almost imperceptible
shrug of several sets of shoulders succeeded
the departure of the humorous gentleman
and his friend.
"Know de young un?" whispered one.
"I should say 1 do, niggah!" returned
he who was called Joe, rather grandly;
"dat's Mister Wales, - son of the big un
over dyar." And he shot his thumb over
his shoulder, to indicate the locality.
"Hi-uin!" ejaculated the first, as only a
negro may, and a whole orrery of rolling
eyes was momentarily visible.
"We shall hardly find any one here to-
night, I fancy," said Chancy, as they moved
down the marble hall. The words were
spoken easily enough; but a close watcher
might have detected a shade of nervous un-
easiness in the speaker's tone and manner.
His companion saw it, and laughed lightly,
discoursing in a quick, pleasant way as if to
dispel the shadow.                    ___________
"Ab! shall we not? never think it, old
fellow! You will find a frill quorum here
to-night, just as surely as you will find all
the notable housewives crowding Stewart's
and Macy's on rainy days; it 's that Cu-
rious antagonism of human nature to re-
straint, or some profound sympathy with the
elements in our mortal clay, - a bone fbr the
philosophers; we must get Hodgson to en-
large on it learnedly at the club. Why~
the stiffest game of cards I ever saw was
played under nailed hatches on the Hero,
with a living gale outside, and the women
praying for their lives at the other end of
the cabin, - twenty thousand on the table,
and won by a simple pair. They always
dj~ink the hardest down there at the long
bar in Broad Street when stocks are sick
and everybody losing money. This is n't
yery apposite, I suppose; but one is not ex-
pected to be apposite after nine-o'clock din-
ners at Delmonico's, is he? Here we are!"
Above the great, swingingAoors of stud-
ded green baize before which they had now
arrived, a reflective mind, retaining some
consciousness of the situation, might- have
seen a graven inscription as terrible in its
import as that which met the eyes of (Iream-
ing Dante, and in the honest young heart
of Charley Wales such an impulse of con-
science was yet possible. He was not a
saint in his ways of life; but he had neyer
entered here, he had not thought indeed
tliat he ever should. Was it of this that
the elder thought, -man of the world, clever,
unerring mask that he was, all-seeing but
inscrutable? We may not know; but poor

4

I,
11

CHOISY.


KNAVES AND ACES.

harley, hesitating on the threshold, as if the the dinner down town; but Huntley delib-
ounds of revelry alarmed him, felt himself erately investigated the merits of a broiled
rawn on by the arm of his friend into the quail. "These are not precisely aou.s autres,
blaze of light and the Babel of voices be- you observe," he said, in a carefully modu-
ond.                                 lated voice, "though, I dare say, you will
The veteran Byrnes had spoken with his recognize some of the faces. A queer lot
usual perspicacity in remarking on the Worthington draws to his table sometimes.
excellence of Mr. Worthington's suppers; I confess, I don't like the style; but if one
they were triumphs, I may say prodigies, feasts with Dives, one must n't make faces at
of their kind, and served in a style and Dives's friends. Look at that red-faced old
ami(l surroundings unequalled in luxurious sinner over there! Of course, you know him,
completeness between King's Bridge and - Judge Grab of the - Court. What a
the Battery. The apartment which the two wall of emptied bottles and debris he has
now entered was the theatre of the feast, - about him! And now lie is groaning in
a long room lighted to dazzling brilliance secret at the cruel rien sic ca j)lus of his
by a massive "sunlight" chandelier, and stomach. He 'd pay handsomely now for
fitted with every device of art which could the old Romansecret of eating two dinners;
t once proclaim its character and add and to-morrow he '11 be sending some poor
t            ~leasino~ornament to the walls. No doughty devil to the Island who has stolen a loaf to
oman ever sat down in a triclinium such as cheat starvation, while his judge was gorging
his. And the scene that it presented at the his skin in a kursaal and sleeps the sleep of
momentwith the great table in 'the midst the just! That little fellow beside him,
gleaming with scores of dishes, burnished who is talking so fast, is Tommy West, the
silver every one, from the tiny salt-eups to 'Puck ' of the ' Evening Tirade'; he is cram-
the colossal illuminated articles which sus- ming items from the Judge, you may he sure;
tamed the smoking joints, and surrounded 1 fancy him scribbling short-hand notes on
by a gay company who ate and drank and his knee at this' 'moment. - (Ab! Frank,
laughed and drank again, was a rare one to how are you? Vile night, is n't it? SmaU
stumble on this bitter night, with the winds house, I fear.) - That's Howler of the 'Va-
of winter howling without and Death stalk- rieties.' Seen him, of course; name, nature,
ing in the frozen streets. Wretched little and occupation expressed in the word. After
Tim, crouching in the shadow of a wall all, you see, it is not this sort of material that
with his pilfered coals while a grim police- keeps Worthington's mill grinding; these
man moves past across the way, would have are species of parasites which attach them-
thought the fairy spectacle a vision of heav- selves to his establishment as a public in-
en, and wondered greatly to hear the good situation in its way. IL fancy he finds it a
people call it a "hell." nuisance to feed them in such numbers; but
The table was well filled, and the hum of he uses them all in their various capacities,
conversation mingled pleasantly with the and makes them serve as a kind of claqucurs.
clatter of dishes and popping of A genius in his way is Worthington, and
corks. As Huntley and his companion pos- will be the Rothschild of his order if he lives
messed themselves of vacant places and sat long enough. But you are not eating any-
own, the master of the feast, a man rather thing. Try a quail. No? - well; pledge
ast middle age, with a fine, prepossessing the game-laws to better success then, - quail
*       ~ice set off by masses of handsome gray in December ! - shame, is n't it?"
air, had risen an instant in his place and "Who~'s the individual in the red tie?"
bowed a courtly welcome to the new-comers, asked Chancy, who drank off his Rederer
ud now addressed some sharp orders to the without stopping to count glasses; "he 's been
tenants. Nods of recognition passed be- looking at me ever since I sat down."
ance with his convives, not a few of whom, Agency!" Charley did not seem to see
ween Huntley and several of the company, "The deuce he has! Perhaps he 's
Charley evidently possessed no acquaint- marking you; it 's Carson of the Detective
however,            with curious but fur- the joke, and Huntley rattled on: "Very
tive glances-                         good fellow is Carson, but a great ass; there
'They had taken seats somewhat apart was never anything so absurd as the idea of
from the others, and Huntley suffered no his being a detective, unless skill in that
minute to pass unoccupied. He noticed profession proceeds from some occult pnin-
instantly the slight tremti'lousness of his com- ciple in nature which acts independently of
panion's hand, as the young man raised his brains and is unknown to common mortals,
first glass to his lips, and rattled away there- a faculty of' scent' perhaps, like a dog's.
after in a running commentary on the per- In this instance it 's a plain ease of the lion's
sons present in his ensy way, not forgetting, skin, so far as one can see; and yet he flour-
at the same time, to keep the wineglasses ishes wonderfully in his me'tier, and fairly
always well supplied. Charley' found noth- blinds you with his diamonds; mysterious
p            -  that tempted his appetite so soon after fellows moving in mysterious ways, these

detectives. Excuse my writing; just the
closing prices for Worthington."
While speaking, Huntley had scrawled
some lines on a card, and now sent it by an
attendant to the host. Only "the closing
prices," as he had said; but the oldest head
in the "street" would have puzzled, I fancy,
over, "Erie broke at 62,-old Southern
nowhere, - a bird in the bus/i, I think, to-
night."
Whatever the meaning hidden in the
sporting phrase may have been, the recipient
apprehended it at a glance. Not once did
his eye wander towards Huntley, nor did the
amused expression with which he was listen-
ing to a profound critique on the last ballet
at Niblo's, from the lips of an aldermanic
pertonage on his right, vary a shade. But
below the table his slender fingers carefully
reduced the card to minute fragments and
dropped them on the floor.
"Does he dabble in stocks too?" asked
Charley.
"I fancy so, in a quiet way. They say
he has an account at Sharp's, and is in with
the bull clique on Central. I should not
object to his balance, myself; it must be
something handsome, aiA money is all of a
color in Wall Street. But won't you eat any-
thing really? Try the oysters. -Ahi! Rob-
bie, my boy, come ra? Easy to see what
you come from in your winsome court dress.
Nice night for a party!"
"Only a 'sociable' at the Nesbits,"
responds "Robbie," who has just arrived,
resplendent in evening costume, but rueful
of countenance;' "awful slow, - square
dances, church music, and a cold feed; but
one must do the proper thing, you know, in
that quarter."
"To be sure!" said Huntley, with a comic
grimace; "the bee goes where the honey
grows. What a pity they should be so rich,
those girls, and yet so - what shall we say,
Bobbie?"
"0, let 'em down easy, say 'plain,"'
answered the elegant youth, plunging into a
dish of steaming oysters before him. "Ah I
this suits me! Imagine cold fowl and sal.
ads in this temperature, washed down with
thimblefuls of thin sherry ! - Here, you
nightshade I give me some champagne. -
The fellow stands and grins like a satyr
while one is congealing by inches! Lively
lot here to-night, eb, Huntley ? - and your
friend? Wales, is n't it?"
"Yes," returned the latter, rather coolly;
"thought you knew him."
The table was now almost deserted, and
our two friends arose and left Young Amer-
ica, cst. nineteen, to his meditations and his
champagne.
"Queer fish, that Huntley. Don't know
whether I quite like him, and I wonder
Wales fancies him so much. It 's all right,

I suppose. Deuced good these oysters are!
Wonder if he had been playing? Looked
* flustered. Handsome boy. Odd I never
met him." And Robbie dropped the subject
in order to devote hiihself more exclusively
* to his hot " saddle rocks."
Crossing the supper-room, Iluntley and
his companion entered through noiseless,
swinging doors the salon beyond. It was a
large double parlor extending through to
the closely curtained windows on the street,
* with its spacious area apparently magnified
by aa ingenious arrangement of large French
mirrors; but even the superb finish of the
eating-room scarcely prepared one for the
matchless luxury of this magnificent apart-
ment. There was a lavish richness in the
appointments which fairly cloyed the sense
of vision, and which, it is possible, would have
its effect in stimulating certain emotions
in the beholder and promoting just that
excited and sensuous state of mind which is
most favorable to "the house." Never was
sin so dressed before; never so flattering to
the sense, so terribly tempting to the eye.
F~inrni ture of enigmatical cost was scattered
abbut in graceful confusion; statuettes in
Parian and bronze, b~jouterie loading
handsome bracket-rests, and inviting smaller
paintings of the Jerome school. Over each
of the two heavy mantels of wrought marble
hung a glowing chef-d'auvre of the copy-
ist's art in life-size glory; the one a reproduc-
tion of the Naples Danail (in which Titian's
warm flesh is almost as golden as his gold),
the other the self-same Rubens type of
profligate mother Venus intent with Bac-
chus and their votaries on drinking each
other under the mutual table, - the familiar
picture of the Uffizi which one grows thirsty
with looking at. The verh~st anchorite,
escaping the charm of these seductive pic-
tures, would inevitably have been ship-
wrecked midway between them, where a
glittering cabinet presented a full array of
never-failing decanters, flanked by open
boxes of fragrant cigars.
The whole gorgeous ensemble, from the
velvet medallion beneath the feet (upon
which the incongruous excrescences of spit-
toons would have startled a!oreign eye) to
the superficial cornices of cm~imson and gold
which surmounted the tinted walls, was a
marvel of sumptuousness, to which the great
chandeliers of gilt bronze, hung with crim-
son swinging globes, gave an almost magic
charm.
Sales de Jeu are common enough in the
older world; big, blazing halls, with trick-
ling fountains, exotic flowers, masses of fresco,
and dancing arabesques: but it remained for
the genius of our own land to produce the
fabulous splendor of a New York "gambling-
house."
A long, broad table ran across the lower

L

'6

CHOISY.

7


CHOISY.                                                   KNAVES AND ACES.                 9

Il

III          end of the parlors, and was surrounded by
chairs; mimic inlaid cards of ivory gleaned 4
from the green cloth which covered it; and
the various apparatus of the game, including
tall piles of divers-cQlored chips, were there-
on arranged under the skilful superintend-
ence of the several functionaries. Hazard
has taken many forms and rejoiced in many
names since they gambled on their finger-
ends in the streets of old Rome.
This was called "faro," in French phara-
on, - a plague of Egypt that has fallen on
our time.
Most of those who had left the supper-
table lingered briefly over their cigars
about the reading-table and dropped away
one by one; but several surrounded the
gaming-table and shared or watched its for-
tunes. Our two friends smoked apart with
Worthington, who had joined them, and
who conversed in the well-schooled, easy
manner of his order. As I have said, he
was a handsome man, with a clear, smooth-
shaven face, finely cut features, and keen,
deep-set cyes4 but not even the studied
smile or the graceful suavity of his address
could entirely hide a sinister something
which pervaded him, and was soonest de-
tected in the lines about his mouth. His
dress was unexceptionable, and itsonly orna-
ment a brilliant of great size which sparkled
in his shirt-front. lie was undeniably at-
tractive,- a well-graced actor on his stran-
gest of stages. And just as he had dressed
his rooms with cunning art, so nature had
flung an attractive glamour about his person:
the eye found no outward sign of what the
heart might feel, - the nameless evil that lay
beyond.
"Very kind of you, Mr. Wales, very kind
of you indeed, to honor us with a call," he
had said, coming up to them and extending
his hand for a greeting, which Charley
acknowledged rather awkwardly. "Such a
wretched night as it is too; as much as a
man's life is worth to be out in it, I should
think. I have wished a dozen times this even-
ing that my house could offer accommoda-
sions sufficiently extensive and pleasant to
tempt all these good people to stay the night
out. As it is, 1 fear it would come to camp-
ing out on chairs and sofas with 'short com-
mons' in bedclothes. Ali! I see they are
going out into it again.- Good night, Judge.
Good night, gentlemen. I wish you a safe
passage; if you can't do better you can come
back, you know. - Nothing stirring in the
street, I suppose, Mr. Wales?"
"I know of nothing. Huntley is the man
for 'points."'
"Ahi yes, to be sure; and the man to
improve them as well, if we may be allowed
the surmise; eb, Mr. Huntley? Will you
excuse me? I see the Judge is in trouble
with those stupid servants." And he passed

swiftly into the hall, from whence came the
~cho of the deep-voiced dignitary of the
- Court in tones of wrath.
"Let 's look at the game," said iluntley.
:~ ~ see Sanders of the Whirlwind Club is
playing, and it will be worth watching."
They approached the table and took places
in the ellipse surrounding it, which comprised
a score of men, seated and standing, half of
whom were engaged in play. The man at the
cards, a mechanical creature with a face of
marble, through whose fingers the paper
squares seemed to glide by a momentum
purely their own, favored the arriving couple
with a scarcely perceptible glance; and the
twQ assistants beside him, impassive ma-
chines like himself, dealing out and collect-
ing the losses and gains and keeping the
busy score, did the same from sheer force
of example. Aside from the habitual so-
lemnity of these men, which was, how-
ever, frequently relaxed in smiles at some
winning player's joke, the scene savored
little at this moment of the gaming-table
as we see it in its glory in other lands.
The lively rattle of conversation and occa-
sional well-put jest, the innovation of liquors
and cigars at the table, and, above all, the
absence of that long-drawn moment of sus-
pense which is inseparable from the Euro-
pean roulette or the deal at trente et quarante,
divested the picture of much of the repulsive
effect which horribly strained attention and
death-like silence give it abroad, and made
it even more dangerous.
The play was at the full. "Two aces
out!" "Queen-deuce!" "Copper thejack!"
"Chips for that!" "Make your bets, gentle-
men!" "How will you have them?" fell in
a chorus on Charley's ear, mingled with the
clicking of the ivoryjetons. Among the seat-
ed players was a young man whose burning
cheeks gave token of the perilous excitement
within. He had been winning largely, and
at the moment he caught Cbar~ey's attention
was in the act of exchanging a mass of chips
for the corresponding amount in notes.
"That 's Sanders," whispered Huntley;
"they tell me he won fifteen thousand here
last night, and is doing nearly as well to-
night. 'Pon my word, I feel rather in the
vein myself. I believe I will try them a
turn or two. Chips for this, please," he
added, tossing a roll of bills to the banker;
"fives and tens; and, waiter, some Bour-
bon and cigars. You '11 have some, Char-
ley?"
The attendant served the desired articles
with miraculous dispatch, and Charley drank
off the liquor without noticing the quantity.
There were two vacant seats near them, and
Huntley took one of them, making place for
Charley, who, intent on the game, sat down
mechanically beside him. Huntley staked
ace full for a considerable amount, and won;

21
I
I
44
44
44

CHOISY.

moved to the deuce, and won again; and was
a third time successful in the same corner,
having thus quadrupled his original fuse.
He shrugged his shoulders slightly, and said
to Charley, who had watched his play,
"Ought to have doubled. Are you com-
ing in?"
Young Wales had sat there with the
fever rising in his veins. To stand by that
table was dangerous; to sit by it was to
fall. He nodded, threw some notes across to
the nimble-fingered "banker," and in five
minutes more he had become oblivious to
all the world and the things thereof beyond
the ebb and flow of the noisy jetons and the
white-faced, emotionless man who manipu-
lated the swift cards.
0 that strange intoxication of play!
that something which thought cannot pene-
trate or words describe, - terrible, inexpli-
cable, inhuman! Who shall analyze it,
who rob it of its delirious attraction, who
resist it? God save us! most of us have
felt it at one time or another; out to feel it
always! It would kill most of us, I think;
but there are men who live on in its atmos-
phere a sort of vampire-life, who have won
the secret of the old alchemists, draining
the poison-cup and laughing at death. This
one whom we meet in our walks of life and
speak of in undertones as a "gambler" be-
longs no longer to our common world; lie
cam~ exist no longer on the every-day food of
humanity, and there has ceased to be a
charm for him in those things which consti-
tute the happiness of men. He has found
another world within this world, and changed
his being to fit therein; by the loss of every-
thing he has gained a something, and almost
defeated nature by achieving the unnatural.
He is a man apart, - a living horror, from
whom there are none of us so strong that we
do not shrink with aThudder, knowing what
a little will make us like him, and what a
secret life is his. There is no escape, for
there can be no cessation; no rest, for
chance, abetted as it may be, as it almost
always is, by fraud, is ever uneven; no
profit, for all values are wiped away for him
who lives from cast to cast; nothing but the
wild swift course down to the bitter end,
broken by intervals of desperate reverses
or frenzied transports of success, and ceasing I
invariably with mysterious but significant
abruptness.
Poor Charley Wales was a gambler no
more than you and I, who have looked down I
at the savage rage over some broad, pro-
tecting shoulder, felt its cruel influence, and
come away sobered hmmt unscathed. Led by
a cunning hand within the magic circle, he
felt, perhaps, something of his danger, but ~
did not dream of falling. Who ever did? t
Who, at his age, walks not gayly along the (
dizzy precipices of to-day, weaving some ii
2

bright dream for the morrow? 0 ce with-
in, he went on blindly and floundered miser-
ably at last. Let us be charitable to the
man whom, instead of ourselves, partial fate
plunged into the abyss.
He played at first with marked success,
and, staking heavily, to " follow his luck," as
Huntley suggested, gained largely, and pur-
sued the mad career with intense excite-
ment. Drink after drink of burning spirits
passed his lips, and countless cigars were
consumed with reckless rapidity; he never
noted the frequency of either, or that they
were served to him assiduously without his
command, any more than he noted Hunt-
ley's infrequent play and the gradual de-
parture of the other gamesters. He was
aware only that the statue-like dealer had
disappeared, and that Worthington himself,
smiling and affable, had taken his place,
drawing the cards with an equally dexter-
ous hand. "Robbie" had come in a long time
before and put down a note, "to pay," as
he would have said, "for his supper"; only
in this instance it won another, whereupon
he incontinently pocketed both and went
his way, not without a shrewd glance at
Chancy's excited face.
"Quite a new thing for him, I should say,"
was the reflection of the period's child.
"Humph! hope he '11 get off cheap, that is
all
The fortune of the table changed at last.
The circle of~ other players had dwindled
down to some three or four betting at ran-
dom and paid with a carelessness that must
have excited the suspicions of a sharp ob-
server as to their real character; and the
busy hum of the hour before was succeeded
by almost unbroken silence. It seemed the
proper moment, and Charley's store of
"chips" and notes began to melt away as
it had accumulated; even more rapidly,
indeed, for never does the player brave the
hazard so recklessly as when the losing turn
arrives. The effect on the young man
showed how completely he was under the
tearful spell; the desperate stakes, the an-
~ry exclamations, the trembling hand and
~onvulsed face; - even Huntley, who
watched him with a Strangm expression of
patience on his face, shivered once or
twice at the spectacle. When the very last
)f Charley's "chips" went back to the
ank, however, he said with well-assumed
mrelessness, "You are not in luck, Char-
ey; better break off." But even as he
poke he showed a handful of his carefully
servedd chips on a card.
"D-d if I do," cried young Wales, upon
vhom the reckless drinking of the pre-
rious hour was beginning to tell violently in
his momentary respite from the excitement
)f actual play. "Loan me some chips," he
Aded, stretching out his~hand imperiously


10                          CHOISY.

as he spoke. Huntley smiled, and pushed
th e whole pile towards him.
"There's the lot, if you want them; three
hundred, I think. Plenty to play on if you
strike the vein, - eb, Worthington?"
The gambler smiled back, and knocked
the ashes daintily from his cigar in the in-
terval of the deal.
"I have seen a bank broken on a start of
just one sixtieth of that amount, say five
dollars," he replied; and added to Chancy,
"My best wishes for your better success,
Mr~ Wales."
The words attended the draining of fresh-
ly filled glasses, after which the game went
on. It was all one way now; in three brief
casts of the cards the borrowed stakes had
followed those gone before. Charley sat in
his place a moment, staring moodily at the
table, whereupon the three or four other
players seemed suddenly inspired with fresh
interest and played with great success. It
was only a moment, but evidently an anx-
ious one for his companion, who watched
him with hawk's eyes. Charley broke the
pause in a hoarse, changed voice: "Give
me some brandy, waiter, your whiskey is
rubbish; and a cigar. - Got any money,
Huntley?"
Worthington smiled affably at the insult
to his whiskey, which was really very fine.
And Huntley ~re~v out his porte-monnale.
"I 'as not riCh to-night, Chancy, but I can
give you something, I guess. Let 's see -
two hundred - thirty - fifty - five, two
fifty-five-that's my pile - tout ce qu'il y a
lIt declans! If you will play, it is yours."
Chancy seized the notes and played them,
without awaiting the exchange for chips.
Luck came back to him one little moment,
just long enough to fan the dull blaze into
a raging flame again; then, in a few adverse
turns, left him penniless as before. Again
he sat an instant in gloomy silence. It was
an awful moment, and one which burned
itself upon his memory, despite the numbness
of his senses, haunting him for months
afterwards, a phantom of regret and shame.
Huntley was making an entry in his mem-
orandum-book; but he did not fail to catch
the young man's glance as it wandered
towards him.
"Just a record, you know," he said, laugh-
ing, "I shall not worry about it. Five fifty-
five, was n't it? Quite enough with what
you have lost. You are not in luck to-night,
Charley. Better go, had we not?" He rose
as lie spoke; but a sober observer would
have seen the devilish anxiety in his face,
and how far from his heart was the desire
to go.
"Wait!" said Chancy, hoarsely, rising
also as he spoke. He was obliged to stand
in his place a moment, and clutch the back
of his chair, while the room with its gilded

walls and dancing lights swam in a wild
whirl before his eyes. Then with a thick-
spoken oath he staggered across to the
liquor-stand, and, pouring a glass from the
first decanter he encountered, drained it at
one gulp. The draught nerved him for the
further effort of reaching the secretary in
the upper salon, - an elegant affair of rose-
wood and green morocco, hung with little
packages of blank checks and drafts on all
the city banks, and offering every conven-
ience for their filling up. It was with none
of these that he had to do, however. With
some difficulty he selected a paper from the
contents of his pocket, and managed with
desperate momentary firmness to write a
rapid endorsement across it.
His dearly purchased strength barely
enabled him to regain the table, where the
mechanical motion of cards and jetons went
silently on. More than one pnir of eyes
had watched his movements with intense
interest, though, had he been competent to
detect it, he would have found no change or
emotion in any face when he returned.
He sank heavily in his seat, nnd threw
the crumpled paper on the board with a
demand in thick, almost unintelligible tones,
"Money for that!"
An evil chance seemed to have guided
Charley Wales's footsteps all this day. It
moved him to stop at the Metropolitan on
his way up town, to see an old acquaintance
who was over from "the Jerseys." In the
office he encountered Mr. Perkins, -
President Perkins of the Penkinsville Bank
(National), who was at that moment in
something of a quandary, and who greeted
him with effusion.
"Ah, Mr. Wales! how fortunate! You
come in the nick of time to my relief. May
I ask your attention a moment?"
Inasmuch as Mr. Perkins, or, more prop-
erly, the institution which he represented,
kept a valuable account at the great bank-
ing house of ~Vales, Burton, &amp; Co. in New
York (for Perkinsville, be it said, whereof
the Penkinsville National is the principal
financial agents settled and mostly popu-
lated by the family Perkins, is a manufac-
turing town of considerable pretensions in
the neighboring province' of Connecticut),
the young man acknowledged the warm
greeting of the country banker with great
respect, and was properly glad to be of ser-
vice. lie excused himself to his friend and
stepped aside with the President, who drew
a portentous wallet from some obscure
recess of his waistcoat.
"I intended to call at your office to-day,
but I had so much to do, and was so delayed
by the storm, that I did not succeed in get-
ting down at all. I am in receipt of a tele-
gram which really makes it imperative for
inc to return home by the evening train;

KNAVES AND       ACES.                         11
and I must ask you to take charge of this It was a cheerful feast that turned the cold
draft and have it credited to us in the world without to laughter, and from it the
morning, if you will be so kind; having friend from the country went homewards
brought it so far myself; I felt reluctant to dreaming sweet dreams all along the hideous
trust it to the mail. You will give me your Passaic flats. Long months afterwards Char-
personal receipt, please; business, you know; Icy recalled that hour and taxed his confused
thank you! I see they are calling me for memory for every detail of its events; what
4      the coach. Please give it your attention in was most prominent in his recollections was
the morning. My respects to your father. his own ready humor at the expense of
Will be down again in a week. Good even- President Perkins, of whom he had given a
ing!" And Mr. Perkins hurried away after ludicrous personation in his account of the
the Titan who was bearing off' his port- incident 'of the draft, and the subsequent
manteau, leaving Charley standing with the drifting of their conversation to the subject
gaudily illuminated scrap in his hand, which, of gaming. He remembered that Huntley
through the m~dihm of certain written cx- invested this part of their causerie with rare
pressions interspersed among divers designs interest by drawing lifelike pictures of the
"~    of a pictorial character (inclusive of a rather Old World kursaals, and relating some cnn-
flattering vignette of Miss Prudence Perkins ous reminiscences drawn from less public
in the guise of Collimbia smiling seductively sources. Charley Wales, in gcncral esteem,
k    at Industry, an idle youth with a superabun- was a "young man about town," as the
dance of ribbon on his hat, who leaned upon popular phrase is; but so much of the rather
his scythe in the opposite corner), informed undefined menu of distractions which thnt
the world that the Bank of Commerce in typical personage affects as comes under
New York was requested to pay at sight to the head of play was limited, in his case, to
the order of Messrs. Wales, Burton, &amp; Co., occasional whist or pool at his club. Beyond
the sum of ten thousand dollars," and charge this his gaming experience had never cx-
thc same to the account of the Perkinsville tended; he heard often enough of the high
National Bank of Perkinsville, Daniel play at the various notorious resorts, of
Perkins, Pres." It was not an affair of very their luxurious splendoi and singular pros-
great moment to Cliarley, who simply put perity, but gave the story only so much
the draft in his pocket-book and rejoined attention as curiosity at the moment prompt-
his friend; hut the financial gentleman from ed. lie had always declined invitations to
the "districts" did not fail to revolve the look in at some of the gorgeous "hells,"
matter in his mind during the long transit declined with a certain emphasis, moreover,
to Twenty-seventh Street; and though he regarding them and ~ic class who frequented
in no way doubted the entire safety of the them as essentially foreign to his own circle;
~ proceeding, he acted upon the su~estion~ of' and how it came at~ou~ tiiai, aftem' ~he dinner
'~ great business caution (which he no doubt this night, he had gone with Huntley to
inherited from his respectable ancestry, an(l Worthington's, he was never able clearly to
which is said to characterize the good people understand. Some remark of his implying
of the "district" from which he hailed), and a certain curiosity about high play had been
stole time at the station to write a brief note met by Iluntley with the suggestion that it
to Wales, Burton, &amp; Co., informing them was "something which ought to be seen
that he had handed that evening to their once," - the animus of which suggestion has
Mr. Wales, Jr., "their No. 72 B'k Coin, led young feet across many a dangerous Ru-
$10,000," etc., which he "presumed would bicon. They could "drop in at Worthing-
be at hand with receipt of this advice." It ton's in 00th Street at supper-time for ten
may be added that this note went safely to minutes," Huntley said, "and see the 'tiger'
post that night, and was duly deposited in in his glory."
the desk of Mr. Wales, Sen., the following Chancy had borrowed the' money of
morning, while his son was still in bed with Simms, - finding he had non~m about him, -
desperate headache and a heart-ache feeling the natural desire of one in his posi-
cyond cure. tion to enter among men on an independent
The same evil chance led Charley to tarry footing, and with no definite intent to play.
at the Metropolitan with his friend, and, as He might risk the money and lose it, for
tIme latter was going home by a night train, that matter; it was a trifle for him, and
finally to propose dinner at Delinonico's, the would have cost him no more afterthought
two having lunched together at a late hour than he had carried home many times after
down town, which was conveniently en route bad cards at the Mayflower, and slept
for the Jerseyman. At the Chambers Street peacefully, nevertheless. And so they had
restaurant they chanced on Mr. Huntley, "dropped in "at Worthington's, and looked,
who, being a friend of Mr. Wales, was very - and stayed.
happy to meet Mr. Wales's friend, and the When the draft fell upon the table,
three had dined together as men may dine Worthington glanced sharply at Chanley,
at Delmonico's, and only there in the world. who glared back at him with sullen eyes

lii


12                                CHOISY.
and angrily reiterated his demand. The sir. Gentlemen, the game is closed!" And
gambler took up the paper, gave it a mo- the tally-box rattled sharply, as the weary
mentary inspection, and, unperceived by keeper sent it spinning into the middle of
Charley, stole a look towards Huntley. The the table.
latter had risen quickly at the young The sounds had no meaning for Charley.
man's return, and moved across to the side- He had sunk into a helpless, almost uncon-
board, where he was engaged in filling a scious state, and was quite insensible to sur-
glass rather nervously wh~n he met Wor- rounding.
thington's eye. He shrugged his shoulders "Hold him a moment, and call Iluntley,"
and gave a slight inclination of his head said Worthington, as he rose from his seat.
in answer, and, without drinking the liquor The mask had fallen from his face, on which
he had poured out. sauntered off and an expression of disgust had replaced the
threw himself on a lounge by the reading- studied smile.
table.                                   Huntley came hurriedly forward.  He
Worthington opened a small side-drawer spoke to no one, but with assistance got
in th~ table, and took therefrom ten crisp, Charley up and arranged his wraps. Out-
new notes, which he handed to Charley side a coach was waiting, the horses blank-
with his unfailing smile, after depositing the eted to their ears, and the driver drowsing
draft in their place. Young Wales noted inside. The sky had cleared, and the
neither their number nor denomination, but bright starlight of the winter morning shone
clutched them fiercely, and threw some of down on the snowy streets.
them on the mimic ace.                   "Leave the windows open, John, and
"Draw your cards, d-n you!" he cried, take a turn about the square with him, be-
in thick, uneven tones. Alcohol and to- fore you take him home," said Huntley to
bacco had welinigh achieved their work the coachman.
upon him, and he rocked unsteadily in his Some time later the carriage drew up be-
seat as he spoke. One of the men sitting fore a tall mansion on the avenue. The driv-
ne~sr sidled up to him cautiously, and er descended and ran nimbly up the steps.
Worthington, albeit as unruffled and smooth His knock was almost instantly responded
as ever, dealt the cards very rapidly. The to by a man-servant, and the two, with some
waste was a knave, the bank's card an ace; difficulty, got the young man into the house,
the queen won for the players, and Charley where the c~achee left him, and hurried
had lost, away. It was no light task to convey the
Probably no external influence could have living yet helpless burden up stairs; but at
longer kept alive a single spark of intelli- last it was accomplished, and the young
gence under the heavy stupor which was man fell at once into the deep slumber of
creeping over body and brain; but a spasm body and brain which follows excess, and
of feverish excitement seemed to thrill him which, happily, has no dreams.
again, even as his head was sinking on his
breast, and to nerve him with strength to In an upper apartment of the gambler's
rea~ph the bitter end. house the two men, Huntley and Worthing-
"Gone again!" he mumbled. "All right, ton, seated before a glowing grate, held a
old fellow; try it again, - ace!"      brief conversation following young Wales's
t'he movement of the cards was light- departure.
'ning-like. Of course, he lost. "Deuce wins, "It 's all right, I suppose," said the latter
ace loses," was the dull echo from the un- in conclusion, and rising as he spoke; "but
moved dealer. it was drawing it pretty strong for the
It seemed for an instant as if the young young one; I don't see your object."
man had been shocked into something like "It is not necessary that you should; and
consciousness of his situation; his face was mind you, Sam, I must stand clear in this,
livid, and he fastened the big brown eyes on whatever turns up," responded Huntley,
Worthington with an expression that tried rising also, and preparing to go. "Be
even the steel nerves of that veteran, sharp with the draft; lef Knarles see to it
But it was for an instant only; with an in the morning at once. The old man may
unintelligible oath he pushed the remaining kick at it; but he must 'pony'; honor is
notes upon the card: "There, d-n you; his religion, and, after all, it 's a mere baga-
take th' rest, - on the ace!" telle for him. Don't tell Knarles too much.
This movement cost the last remnant of you know. No, thanks, I '11 not stop. I 'ye
his strength, and he would have fallen from my game to play, and must stay at the hotel.
his chair after it, had not his neighbor put Beastly headache I've got! How he did
out an arm and supported him. The mel- drink! Good night. See you at Sched-
ancholy farce of the falling cards followed, her's at noon."
- scarcely need of it now; and after it the "Good night, - and be d-d to you for
clear, cold voice of Worthington, "Deuce a precious scoundrel!" added Worthington
wins, ace loses! Sorry for your bad luck, in an undertone, as the door closed on the

CAST OUT.

13

other. "Not the sea side of you on a dark long gone years. There are pitfalls all
night, if Iknow it, my boy!" And with this among the flowers and the fairness, but
significant reflection Mr. Sam Worthington never a thought for them has "my lad "-
betook himself to his luxurious bed.           "When all the world is young,
Aud all the trees are green."
So he tumbled bodily, like many another
as open-eyed, as brave, as thoughtless, as
CHAPTER     II.            hopeful; but he was a free rider andfell hard.
Did any one, I wonder, ever traverse that
CAST OUT.               flowery road without a stumble?  I think
WHEN Charley Wales woke the next day not; not even you, honored or reverend
with the meridian sun streaming in at his sir, who bear aloft the strong lance of
windows, he was in a condition of mind justice, or teach us the right way. Alack!
which would have been chaotic, if a great if the whispered tales of other days shall
pain had not given it some character. The sometimes verge on truth, some of you
old servant stood by his bedside as he opened tripped grievously in your time, and seepedd
his heavy eyes.                        some very muddy sluma by a hair I- We
"I made bold to wake you, sir; it is are all of a mould, and poor old Jack Fal-
nearly lunch-time, and Miss Emma thought staff is our apologist, ha may we do,
you would wish to be called." indeed, in these days of vilany, when Adam
"So late! I will get up. You may leave in his innocence fell?
the soda, Stephen."                     It was ss6~ of his pleasant life, however,
Stephen withdrew, and Charley lay gaz- that young Wales thought. If he groaned
ing with burning eyes at the faint winter in remorse, he did not groan in regret. He
sunshine on the wall. A dizzy host of remembered what he had done, - for he was
memories were struo~rling for precedence one whom no depth of intoxication could
in his aching brain, but for a time he could render oblivious to an act of guilt,- and the
grasp no one of them clearly. What was horrid fact stunned him for a time with its
it? What had occurred? Ah ! - the din- weight, ill as he was from the effects of cx-
ncr down town with Birch and Huntley - cess. But though physically weak, he was
President Perkins - the club - Simms - resolute enough to think calmly, and close
Worthington's - supper - detective c/ia- on the heels of what he had done followed
os Out of this, in a little time, a vague, the thought of what he must do; but it was
chilling memory took shape and grew, - the here that the situation took on its most
dazzling salons and the faro-table, the cir- dreaded phase, for it raised before him the
dc of faces dancing fantastically about, and figure of his father.
only die one horrible, unmoving figure in It could be said that Edward Wales, the
the midst, with set lips and unlaughing banker, had a son, but it could scarcely
eyes. He had played, too, - 0 yes! - be acknowledged that Charley Wales had
the money borrowed from Simms - lost known a father. The hard, cold man of
it, and - and Huntley's and -0 my God! gold possessed none of the qualities which we
He started upright in his bed, and clutched associate with that name. He had been the
at support for an instant, while the room - terror of Chancy's earlier years, removed
the handsome, cheery room, with its pie- but ever remembered, as he was the oppres-
tured walls and its scattered wealth of Id- sive shadow of the young ~man's later life.
joux, gathered with so much artist-pleas- To meet him in this crisis, and to meet in
nrc in the years gone by - swam in a him tIme judge, was the ordeal from which
mad whirl before his eyes. A moment Charley shrank.
later and he was searching with shaking The sun was adding its cheenfhl light to
hands among the papers in his pockets, the warmth of a crackling fire in the break-
searching wildly but silently, with com- fast-room as Charley entered it, a half-hour
pressed lips and a strained look in the big later, struggling to look at ease. A young
brown eyes. girl stood by the grate as he came in, and
No, it was not there; the truth came turned quickly, with a half-reproachful, half-
back to him more clearly now, and there anxious face, which grew very tender as she
was no need to search. He. sat down with noted his pallor and haggardness; but she
a groan, appalled and sickened; brain and said, merrily enough," The 'late' Mr; Wales,
body shared the blow, - both nervous and as usual. What a bad boy you are!"
weakened with poisoned drink. The weight "Spare me, little coz," he answered with
crushed him, and for the first time in his an effort at gayety sadly in contrast with
young life the courage faded from the brave his nervous step and manner. His eyes
boy's heart. fell unaccountably before her own, and he
His had been a pleasant life, a merry, seized and fumbled the paper without speak-
morning gallop across green fields and sunny ing, while she rang for lunch, and sat down
hills, like yours and mine, reader, in the at the table. She glanced furtively at him

I


CHISY.CAST OUT.

several times, as she busied herself with the
coffee, before speaking again.
"You are not well, I fear, Charley; yes-
terday was such a day! You ought to be
careful. Were you kept down town by the
snow?"
"Yes; it was awful, was n't it?" (He
was thinking how awful it was, and wonder-
ing behind his paper what she would think
of him if she knew it.) "I did n't care to
ride up with the governor, you know; so -
Well, to tell the truth, I was near not getting
up at all." And he wished he had not, poor
boy!
"I-low tiresome! I wondered what you
would do all day, as I watched the storm
from the window. It quite reconciled me
to the misfortune of being a woman, as Clara
would say, to see the pitiful state of these
famous business people in the omnibuses.
Uncle himself was late last evening."
He was not listening, and she said no
more, but watched him with troubled eyes
as he left his food untasted, and rose to go.
"Won't you have another omelette? I
fear that was cold.'~
"No, it 's good enough. I 'm not hungry,
and I must go down; ought to have been
at the office two hours ago. One o'clock!
How I slept!"
He rang for his coat, which she took from
Stephen and helped to put on.
"Never mind,~ Em; thanks. I - you
did not find a paper - that is, anything in
these pockets, Stephen?"
"No, sir," replied the servant. "Your
hat, sir?"
He moved to the door, and Charley
turned to follow, but something touched his
arm.
"Good by, for all day."
She stood with her hand extended and a
smile on her face, - a delicate, beautiful face
it was, - but in her sober eyes was all the in-
stinctive intelligence of her woman's heart,
which had fathomed his disturbed manner,
and sought to know its hidden cause.
A world of anxiety and undisguised affec-
tion was in the gaze; he saw it and hesi-
tated, took her hand, and hesitated still;
then, wrenching it almost convulsively,
turned away to the door with a tear-choked
"Ta, ta." She crossed to the window and
sighed, saw him go by, walking with his
quick, elastic step, and then returned to
gaze silently at the fire, where she still re-
mained when the wondering servant came
to remove the untouched luncheon.
It was "late - ddivery" time in Wall
Street when Charley descended from the
omnibus at his father's office, and went up
the broad steps with a tremulous heart, -
"late delivery," for the ragged bits of stained
and unprepossessing paper clutched in the
handa .f hatless and breathless clerks dash-

14

15

CHOISY-

lug madly along the swollen curbs, and
plunging into the river of mud and snow
which filled the street, - "late delivery "for
the millions of men's possessions which they
hurried thus from aide to side, -"late de-
livery," too, for poor Charley, going in to
meet his fate at that fan~iliar threshold.
A strange visitor had preceded him at
the house of Wales, Burton, &amp; Co., on that
morning of sunshine and sodden streets, by
an inch of time; and it is in inches that
time brings on its revenges. Mr. Wales, in
his private office, was running rapidly over
his large morning mail at his usual hour,
when a clerk announced that a gentleman
wished to see him. The interruption was
unusual, and Mr. Wales did not like un-
usual things in business.
"Name?" was all he vouchsafed in re-
sponse to the message, without pausing in
hls work.
"Here is his card, sir; 'Mr. Knarles.'"
It was not a promising cognomen, and
the banker frowned at it. But 'he said,
sharply, " Show him in."
Mr. Knarles's appearance was not pre-
possessing, - a lean, sly-faced, sharp-e~Ved
little man, in a rather seedy black suit, -
and the banker frowned again as he glanced
up at his visitor. He recognized him, how-
ever, - he never forgot a face, - as one of
those parasites of crime who live on the
courts. In fulfilling the one unavoidable
duty of citizenship in the jury-box, lie had
once beheld in Mr. Knarles the earnest
champion of unmitigated villany; and it
was with sensations of decided repugnance
that he received his obsequious salute.
"1 must beg you to state your business
briefly; I am fully occupied," he said, curt-
ly, motioning the lawye~' to a seat. Mr.
Knarles had not completed his very pro-
found obeisance, but he accepted the posi-
tion with cheerfulness and alacrity.
"I appreciate the value of your time,
Mr. Wabs," he began, with bland equanim-
ity. "It would be difficult to find any one
in New York who could fail to do so, I am
sure. I will occupy as little of it as the
case admits. May I ask if we are entirely
private here?"
Quite," responded the banker, with
some impatience, and still busy with his
letters.
"Excuse my pressing the point, sir, it is
important."
Mr. Wales turned off from the perusal of
a portentous Western letter covering an
infinitude of those highly illuminated drafts,
such as the good men of the border delight
in, and, turning in his chair, pointed to the
door. "You ~a~,turn the key, sir, if you
think it necessary.
He thought he had divined the man's
errand; his presence could be accounted

4,'
4,

for in only one way, and he merely won- ed his hand for the paper. But the banker
dered that this man should have preceded paid not the slightest attention to the words
their own regular detective. But he was or the movement, and he withdrew his hand.
alive to the requirements of the case, and After a moment Mr. Wales asked, sharply,
as the lawyer returned to his seat he gave "What is your price for this?"
him his full attention.                  "Our price! I must remind you, sir,
"My business lies in' this, Mr. Wales," that Mr. Worthington has advanced the full
said the lawyer, drawing, as he spoke, a amount, with no deduction for interest or
slip of paper from an emaciated memoran- commissions -"
dum-book, and extending'
you examine it?" ~ the same. "Will "Bah I"
Mr. Knarles was growing bold, and the
The banker received and inspected it banker showed his first symptom of fueling
rapidly but closely, pausing only to note the in the impatient exclamation.
indorsemnents. He had not yet read the "Does this constitute your entire claim
note of President Perkins, and he was puz- against my - against the indorser?" he
zled; but his face told no tales. continued.
"How came you in possession of this?" "It does. I am prepared to hand you
he asked abruptly.                     Mr. Worthington's receipt to that effect."
"it is held by my client, who received it  Mr. Wales turned, and touched his bell.
in ordinary course of business," Was the  "May I trouble you to unlock the door?"
ready reply.                           he asked, without looking again at the law-
"And who is your client?"            yer, who obeyed with a readiness that bor-
"Mr. Samuel Worthington of 00th dered on precipitation. To the clerk who
Street."                               answered the summons the banker said,
Mr. Wales re-examined the draft, with "Bring me a blank check."
the tenor of which the reader is familiar.  It was brought and laid before him.
It bore the iisdorsement, "Pay S. Wor-   "To whose order?" he asked.
thington. Wales, Burton, &amp; Co., per 0. W.,  "Mr. Samuel Worthington, ifyon please,"
Att'y." The banker's face grew a shade responded the lawyer, whose face was now
more rigid as he studied these lines, but agitated by repressed satisfaction.
the change would easily have escaped a It did not please the banker, however.
less observant eye than that of Mr. Knarles. He frowned darkly at the name, and after
That gentleman was something of an ama- a moment of hesitation filled in the check
teur in the study of physiognomies, and rapidly to the order of the firm, and de-
he felt no little admiration for the severe- snatched a clerk to the hank for the cur-
ly impassive man before him, whose impen- rency. Pending the messenger's return
etrable expression almost defied scrutiny, the silence was broken only by a single in-
"You must be aware," said Mr. Wales, terrogation and a ready reply. Mr. Wales
coldly, but without removing his eyes from faced about, and, curbing the rising disgust
the draft, "that this is worthless." which was evident in his face, met the eye
"On the contrary, sir," responded the of the Tombs satellite with a fixed look.
lawyer, with an affectation of alarm, "it "I have no guaranty that this will be
was received by my client in good faith, as kept silent," he said.
I have said, and in regular course of busi- "The best, sir," returned Knarles, quick-
ness. The full amount has been advanced ly. "It is for our jaterest that it should
upon it, - advanced, I may say, without hesi- be."
station, as the very honorable character of The banker felt something like a shud-
the endorser -"                        der at this significant admission. It had
"The endorsing party has no power to cost the proud old man an effort to exact
consign this draft; his power of attorney it, and he was paler thami before when he
is a limited one, and applies to a simple passed the thick roll of bills which had
detail of office business only. The indorse- been brought in to the lawyer. He gave
ment, as I have stated, is worthless." only a glance at the receipt given therefore,
The banker spoke with impatience, but and turned to his desk' again, while Mr.
Mr. Knarles deliberated sober y a moment Knarles somewhat laboriously ran over the
before replying. He seemed even affected money. The few words of acknowledg-
by the intelligence,                   meat which the latter ventured to utter re-
"What you state must, of course, be cor- ceived no attention, and the lawyer, finding
rect, Mr. Wales, and I need not say that it them unheeded, shrugged his thin shoulders,
puts an altogether different face on the smiled softly to himself, and passed out.
matter; I may say, an unhappy face. It Outside, the smile spread blandly over the
makes it necessary for me to consult my sharp, cunning face, and the little man be-
client at once, as he will desire to protect stowed a remarkably cheerful salute upon
his interest with his usual promptness." the old cashier, who looked up over his spec-
Mr. Knarles rose as he spoke, and extend- tackles at the unwanted visitor, and won-


16

CAS'

CHOISY.

dered again at the hiatus occasioned in his
check-book by such a customer. It deserves
to be recorded that the amiable Mr. Knanles,
on leaving the office of Wales, Burton, &amp;
Co., so far diverged from his usual habits of
business as to drop down to Delmonico's
and partake of a glass of hot brandy-and-
water, for which indulgence he found a
twofold excuse in his successful negotiation
and the bad state of the streets.
The banker sat tapping idly on his desk
for a time, - a long time for him, in thse
busy hours of work, - his eyes resting
thoughtfully on the two slips of paper lying
before him. The old cashier, who looked in
for some instructions, saw something in his
face which sent him away again on tiptoe.
Then he gathered up the draft and receipt
mechanically, and put them in a small side-
drawer, the key of which he kept in his
porte-monnaie. The absent look was still
in his eyes as he closed and locked the
same; they fell purposelessly upon the mass
of unopened correspondence, and wandered,
as by fateful chance, to a morning journal
which lay partly folded on the desk. There
they rested, rested long, until the old in-
telligence seemed to flash back into them;
and with a convulsive movement he reached
out and took up the paper.
It was only the "World"; but as it
rested there an advertising column headed
" Ocean ~ was conspicuously in
view, and it was this heading which hat
caught the banker's gaze. He ran down
the list rapidly until his eye paused or
the name of a steamer which was to sal
two days later; the old, instinctive habii
brought his pencil to the place anc
marked it, and the paper was then care
fully deposited in a pigeon-hole within
reach. Then, without so much as the sigl
which a younger heart heaves against it
trouble, the man of business went back t4
his business, and the cashier, looking h
again, found in the busy worker, going o
with his letters, the unchanged, untirin!
"principal" of every day.
"When Mr. Charles comes down, tel
him I wish to see him, Burns."
"Yes, sir; and the blank?"
"I will give you a memorandum later
remind me of it."
In due course Mr. Wales came acros
the hurried communication of Presiden
Perkins, which, after reading it, he put I
his pocket. The honorable directors of th
Bank of Perkinsville received, the nea
day, a letter from their~ INew York Corr(
spondents containing the rather extraurd
nary statement that their "No. 72 Bl
Coin at sio'ht for $ 10,000," handed to 311
Charles W'ales on the evening of the 17t
instant, had been "accidentally destroyed.
The amount, however, had been credited

to their account in flaIl and instructions
noted. "Would they kindly forward du-
plicate draft at their earliest convenience?"
The worthies of the up-country corporation
wondered somewhat, but complied in
all confidence, and thus the draft disap-
peared forever from the surface of things.
The old cashier received a memorandum for
his blank " stump," - a charge of $10,000 to
the private account of Mr. Wales. He was
also instructed to credit the balance of the
Perkinsvile National with a like amount,
and charge the same to Profit and Loss
without interest, against the arrival of their
remittances, so that in the balance-sheet
of Wales, Burton, &amp; Co., that day, the
house account stood debit $ 20,000, half
of which was a knotted puzzle to all the
working heads but one.
When Charley passed the great office
doors, where a rabble of nervous delivery-
boys crowded the passage, the cashier found
time over his lightning task to deliver the
senior s message. The young man's heart
sank at the words; they told him that his
sin had already found him out, and for an
instant he could almost have turned and
fled, reading his guilt in every face. But
he went in, passing by his associates with
eyes on the floor and pale cheeks, making
no response to their friendly greetings, -
a strange discourtesy in Charley Wales.
A bright-eyed clerk, running rapidly
through a mass of bonds, noted at, and
exchanged significant glances with his
mate.
I "Row on between the old un and Char-
ley."
I "I guess; they don't hit off at all
- lately."
a What passed between father and son
a within the locked inner office in the next
s half-hour neither the curious employees
nor the world ever knew. Charley came
a out as he had gone in, and left. the place
a with a dazed look on his face, and no word
~ for any one. Outside, on the street steps,
he paused and bared his burning head
I mechanically to the cold breeze; it ached
fearfully, but he was hardly conscious of
the pain; and as he stood there with listless
eyes wandering down the restless thorough-
fare, a dreamy feeling was born of his
s bewilderment which was deeper than ,any
Lt sense ol physical distress. Strangely soft
a and significant the familiar scene became
e to him at that moment, with the 1a~t rays
:t of the early winter sunset    the ici-
~- des which clung to a thousand airy cor-
i- ners of the spire of old Trinity, and glint-
u ing down along the line of house-fronts to
r. the bald colonnade of the Customs, and a
b host of memories surged up within him at
." the thought that it was the last time he
:d should ever gaze upon it. Long ago he

had felt a child's pride in the knowled~
that his father was one of those great m
who kept houses down there filled wil
gold; he had gone down at long interval
as he grew to boyhood, and watched wil
wondering eyes and beating heart ti
vast human machinery which worked
swiftly and so faultlessly in the big office
investing the picture with all the boy
romance, and thrilling pleasantly at sigi
of the name he bore staring down at all th
passers-by in great gilt letters. He ha
grown up ambitious to share in the labc
and glory of this marvellous employment
but it had proved hard and unsatisfying a]
too soon, and the scene he gazed on no~
had long ago turned cold and colorless
enough. But in this moment a rare chang
had fallen over it, - the melancholy inter
est that clothes the face of a friend going
long journey. Few men had ever throw
the same amount of sentiment into th~
sober lines of walk and wall in that feverish
mart as did poor Chancy in those fee
moments on the steps; but a sharp touci
on the arm put it all to Thght.
"Ilallo, Charley I one would think you
had found a new architectural study, or v
bit of charming scenery in the old street.
judging by your artistic pose. Lucky ii
you can; though, for that matter, a man in
your shoes may build his 'castles in Spain
where he likes, fine, five-storied, substantial
ones, marbled and mansarded and all that,
eh? Egad! you may build yours even
here, if you care to. That 's one picture;
but only look at mine I Woe is me! There
is Erie down a half, and Brooks sending
that infernal red-headed oflice-boy up in
hot haste for 'margin.' I call him my
Spectre Rouge, and I believe he is ethereal;
I shied a quarto of Kent at him the other
day when he popped in, and it went through
him; he stood there, unwinking and un-
moved, when I had thouo~ht he would go
down like a ten-pin." Ti'ie gossipy friend
hooked arms with Charley, who walked up
with him, mechanically, to the Broadway
corner. "You look done up, old fellow. I
saw you putting out with Dick Huntley last
evening, and wondered what was on; none
of my business, of course. Huatley 's a
good fellow, is n't he? Only wish he would
let one know him better."
The name aroused Chancy; he excused
himself to his friend, and clambered into
an omnibus. The first settled thought he
had had for hours came with the mention
of Iluntley; it grew to be a feverish desire
by the time he had reached and descended
at the club. It was early, and there were
only a few loungers in the parlors as he
entered and sought out the steward.
Simms met him with his unvarying smile.
"Not pleasant out, Mr. Wales?"
3

D1cK.

There was but one man among the host
who called themselves his friends to whom
Charley could have opened his heart in the
strait int~ which he had come; that man
was Huntley, and there was something
more than disappointment in the deep feel-
ing of loneliness, of utter helplessness, which
weighed him down after the perusal of this
untoward note. But the unselfish soul re-
tained no bitterness for its frii~nd. "Poor
Dick I I am always dragging him into
some scrape; I wonder he has not dropped
me long ago; any other man would,~ I fancy.
What a fool I was!"
He had conferred that unhlattering title
on himself many times during this weary
day, but never with more emphasis than at
this moment, when the losses, - he could
not recall whether they had been large or
small, - and the inconvenience to which
they might subject Huntley, filled his
thoughts. He stood musing by the fire un-
til people began to straggle in and arouse

T OUT.                               17
3 "No, it is not. I say, Simms, here is a
check for a thousand, and I want you to
pay off some things for me. I will give you
a memorandum o? them; they will foot up
with what I owe you about eight hundred;
you can give me the balance now."
"Certainly, sir," and the celebrated wal-
let made it~ appearance. "Goinrr out of
town, Mr. Wales?"
"No - yes - that is, for some days;
have you seen Huatley to-day?"
"0, beg your pardon, sir, I had nearly
forgotten it; there is a note here for you
from him, I think."
Simms hurried away and returned with
the missive, which Charley tore open and
read with eager haste.
It was as follows:
DEAR CHARI.EY, - I have just re-
ceived a telegram from Sterns at Washing-
ton; he has botched my business there, and
I must go on at once, though I have a roar-
ing headache out of our fling hLst night, and
had hoped to recuperate here quietly to-
day and measure the damages with you to-
night. I can't for my life recall the events,
but I find myself a penniless wretch this
morning. Did I loan you anything? I hope
so, I 'm pure, though I am sorry we went
to Worthington's. It was your suggestion,
you know, and there was no holding you
when you got there. Telle est la del How-
ever, it is no great affair, and we 'II be good
boys and not try it again. I am awfully
sorry not to see you, but can't help it.
Take care of yourself, and don't go to 00th
Street again. I '11 be back in three days'
time, and until then believe me,
Yours,

FIFTH AVENUE HOTEL, December 18th.


18                          CHOISY.

him by their salutations; then he went into
the street and walked slowly towards his
home. It was quite dark now, and lights
were gleaming softly in the windows as he
passed up the avenue; he saw the swift
shadows flitting across them, and pictured
to himself the happy home-citcles in the
warmth within. In his desolation he never
paused to think that in each there brooded
some heavy trouble like his own; he only
saw in them the blessing of a home with a
thousand sweet and sacred influences dwell-
ing therein. They were not for him, and
his steps grew slower as his young heart
sank. Once he gathered a sudden resolution
as the memory of the fair-faced girl of the
morning flashed upon him; but the stern
face of his father intercepted the sweet vis-
ion the next instant, and his shame fell on
his soul like a pall. He paused irresolutely
on a street corner, and was standing there
when an omnibus came clattering down.
Scarcely conscious of what he did, he hailed
it and got in; he could go anywhere, rest
anywhere, now, but in his father's house,
where every object seemed endowed with a
pitiless and accusing voice.
Huntley had written and dispatched
more than one swift epistle in the busy half-
hour at the hotel previous to his departure
from town; and there had gone around to
Mr. Samuel Worthington in 00th Street, by
the same messenger that had conveyed the
note to Charley at the club, a communica-
tion of a different character. It was re-
ceived and read by Mr. Worthington over
a very late breakfast, a meal at which the
obsequious Knarles enjoyed the unspeakable
felicity of assisting, an honor bestowed
probably in recognition of his successful ne-
gotiation of the morning. Huntley briefly
urged prompt action with the draft, - an en-
tirely unnecessary proceeding as we have
seen, - and closed with the words, "I am
off to Philadelphia, as, whatever occurs, I
am best out o he way; and in whatever
does occur, I must not be involved. If any-
thing special turns up, telegraph me at
once at the Continental."
Worthington perused the paper impas-
sively, Mr. Knarles watching him covertly
over his glass. That notable attorney had
acquired some bad habits in the practice ol
his profession, and could not wholly divest
himself 'of them in private life; moreover
his curiosity had been sadly piqued by tht
events of the morning, and he thirsted fom
more enlio'htenment than he had received
from the "cautious gambler. It was nol
every day that he could bring himself int
such happy relations with a great man o
the street, and he was beginning shrewdly
to regret his too faithful pursuance of hi:
client's interest and too slight recTard to hi
own. He ventured at the thira glass o

wine to remark innocently, "I was not
aware that young Wales played; not a
regular thing, is it?"
Worthington repelled the gentle advance
promptly.
"We will not speak of the matter any
further, if you please, Knarles," he said,
coolly; "you have acquitted yourself satis-
factorily, and we will not forget it; but it is
desirable, for various reasons, to let the mat-
ter drop."
The lawyer smiled apologetically; but he
suffered much self-condemnation on his way
down town, visibly indicated by repeated
sober shakings of his head, and, arrived at
his office he sat down and entered in his
private books a careful minute of the trans-
action so far as he had figured therein, with
shrewd addenda of inferences; when this
was done, he indulged in a lengthy medi-
tation, the conclusion of which was marked
by a significant wrinkling of his brows
and the philosophical ejaculation, "Who
knows?"
CHAPTER III.
OUT OF THE WAY.
CHARLEY did not make his appearance
at the breakfast-table the next morning at
the Wales mansion, - a not uncommon oc-
currence, to be sure; but Mr. Wales noticed
it, and asked Stephen if his young master
was at home. The old servant made a
feeble effort to evade the truth, without
uttering a direct falsehood. "I don't think
he is up yet, sir," he s4d.
It is not likely that the subterfuge de-
ceived Mr. Wales, even partially; but he
said no more, and the meal passed off in
silence. There were present only the bank-
er and the young girl of the morning, who,
with the absent Cha{rley, composed the
small family of which it behooves us now
briefly to sketch the history.
Mr. Edward Wales had been a hard-
working man of business in Wall Street for
forty years. He began as a youth of fifteen
with the simple details in the office of Bur-
ton Brothers, even then a prominent house,
not, as I might have noted, in the Wall
Street of to-day, but farther down in the
antique shades of Beaver Street, from which
the modern thoroughfare of finance received
its earlier settlers. Tireless and ambitious,
with exceptional abilities and a routine of
life rigidly shaped to the groove, even in
those early days, in which it was destined
ever afterwards to run, he rose and pros-
f pered in his place, until in time he assumed,
without question, the foremost position
among the working heads of the house.
s At twenty-five he was the brain of the con-
f cern. The principals were old men, driven

4
'4

OUT OF THE WAY.                                 19
each day more imperatively to seek the re- ing way to the one Power he felt himself'
'4    pose which age demands, and which it will unable to oppose, and go back in silence to
not be denied; but they clung with the self- his post.
ishncss and the pitiful tenacity of their He possessed ~a single relative of his own
years to the traditions of their trade, and family, a widowed sister, who lived with her
when the issue could no longer be avoided, children upon the Hudson, and her he be-
they bought over the name and body of sought to give a home to his son. They
their lieutenant, as for ten years they had were far removed in character, this brother
paid the hire of his faculties. He married and sister. People who had known both
the~dnly daughter of the' elder Burton, and marvelled at the relationship, ignoring what
became the junior member of the house on was, perhaps, pure cause and effect in na-
his wedding day. The old association of ture, - they were the offspring of different
name and line was thus insured, and the niothers. She granted his petition gladly
corporations of Burton Brothers &amp; Co., and and thankfully, though not without condi-
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Wales, were simultane- tions almost sternly insisted upon. One of
ously recognized by an admiring public, these was that the boy should remain under
Business principles had been rigidly ad- her care and government till he reached
hered to, merit and ability rewarded, and manhood. Her woman's shrewdness had
the sensitive requirements of old age ful- measured long ago the character of her
filled; and if sentiment had no share in the brother, and she knew how unfit he was to
transaction, the absence of it had in no way guide and mould a young and enthusiastic
marred the harmony of the event. The intelligence. She saw something like the
man-world looked on in sober approval, and hand of a generous Providence in the event
applauded the successful clerk; and the wo- which gave the boy to her to guard and
man-world smiled upon and envied the Cs- foster. She saw also the shadows that lurked
tablislied mistress of the fine new dwelling in far-away years along the path he must
on Union Square. The years rolled on, follow. She was a good woman, a Woman
marked by the birth of our hero and the of strength and tenderness; one of those
deceased at brief intervals of the two worn noble yet silent natures whose influence
seniors. By special provisions of a joint sweetens life, and makes our earth some-
will, the old name was to figure still over thing more than a clod.
the door in Wall Street, to remind the To her requirements Edward 'iVales with-
world a little longer of men the world would out great deliheration consented. It was
rapidly forget; and some well-established practically a surrender of his child; but he
charities, seldom heard of but through siini- could not but feel his helplessness, his
mr channels, received into their secretive inability to undertake himself the task of
mnaws portions of the Burton gold. iN~t education; which feeling, be it said, was not
notably large, however, were those portions; unmixed with a certain unwillingness to
these twin workers understood too well the make the sacrifice of his time and attention
business impropriety of withdrawing active that the responsibility would involve.
capital, and the great bulk of their wealth The compact was sealed, and the bewil-
fell to Edward Wales, "our dearly beloved dered little waif ~vent away to his new home.
son and nephew," with conditional legacies The great town house was not closed; Mr.
to his wife and, son.                  XVales preferred to remain therein and live
Five years after his marriage the banker's as nearly in the old way as possible.
wife suddenly sickened and died. Their Little Charley's life reopened in the love-
association had been utterly colorless and liest corner of the world, where the blue
uneventful, perfect in every domestic detail, Jludson rolls smoothly to the sea, and the
brightened by little or no sentiment per- fringed Highlands, full of mystic shades and
haps, but clouded with no mi~takes.- If he elfin-haunted gorges, rise on either hand.
had never loved his wife, as many good peo- Amid these glorious scenes the bi~y, it might
pIe imagine it right and necessary to human be said, was born again; his infant sorrow
happiness to do, he had at least heartily re- quickly faded from his mind, and with it all
specter and admired her as the embodiment the chilly memories of the gloomy town
of womanly propriety, the sober; frugal house and the tuneless life therein. In the
mate, in whose noiseless revolutions there new atmosphere the natural impulses of his
was never an ecceiitricity or an error. being warmed into new life and grew with his
Her loss in those days was a terrible blow growth; he went back to Nature Nature's
to Edward Wales, the man of thirty with child, and drew strength and gladness from
the heart of fifty. It was the first, abso- her glad presence.
lately the first, cross which had marked Those years of Charhey's life were beauti-
that continuous story of success; his life ful, bountiful years. He grew up amid the
and his soul rebelled against it, as he stood truest and tenderest of home influences, and
Over the dead woman in her coffin; but he from a wise guidance and careful combina-
could only bow in a dumb, uncomnprehend. tion of task and play derived a store of


20                                CHOISY.
mental wealth, gathering fruits of knowledge his boyhood's friend was more than that
in paths of roses. His aunt, Mrs. Howland, of a brother, and something like that of a
lived near one of the busy towns of the woman.
lower river, upon a charming estate where The lapse of these'fourteen years brought
she had known the great happiness of her the long charge of his aunt to a close.
married life and the immeasurable after-sor Fred was going to college, and it was the
row of her widowhood. Her own children, desire of Mr. XVales that Charley should
a boy and a girl, the former older and the lat- accompany hins'~cousin; but the longing for
ter by several years younger than Charley, business career had grown with him and
and our hero, comprised her little family, in taken a strong hold of his heart, and he
which the noble woman, sealing her life sor- pleaded hard to be allowed to go into the
row in her heart, found her consolation and office. It was to his aunt that he turned,
reward. I need not dwell on these years, or and the good woman listened with an
follow minutely the golden threads of the anxious heart. She fully understood how
young lives which were knit together in mistaken, almost fantastical, was the ideal
that time in unalterable affection; nor do I which he had conceived; but she was as
need to venture far on the ever-debatable fully alive to the impolicy of sending
ground of education. him to college. To tell the truth, the
Mr. Wales was an infrequent but a regular young man had grown rather beyond her
visitor at the river home, coming at certain cast. The boy so gently aiid t~a~ily guided
intervals on a Saturday and remaining over and controlled had become the youth who
the Sabbath. There would be a general must control himself; and Charley's was a
attendance at the church in the morning on nature of which, while she admired and
these occasions, and long afternoon rambles revered it, she knew the weaknesses and
bydhe river, during Which Charley would faults. But she accepted the mission
recount the events of the month to his father, to his father, and said to Mr. Wales:
and respond to the latter's brief and rather "You must n~t sen(1 Charley to college;
absent catechising as to his progress in it will not do. I send Fred, but he is of
knowledge. If sometimes a child's inspira- another sort. I can trust my son without a
tion, a dim yearning for some trifling tribute thought; but I should fear for Charley, even
of a father's affection, stirred the boy's heart, under Fred's protection. No! it will not
it perished in the atmosphere of this cold answer, brother; and besides, the boy's heart
mane in whose soul there seemed no corner is set, as you know~ on another course."
left unoccupied, no guarded space which "YcsI am aware of his desire. I need
the busy revolution ofgold-gatliering schemes scarcely tell you I consider it a mistake.
had spared to the ordinary affections of He is not qualified for active business, and
nature.                                it is not required that he should be; the
Fourteen years of Charley's life passed necessity of labor does not exist for him, aiid
away unmarked by any notable event. There probably never will; and though I can't say
had been small troubles, and sicknesses, and that I regard it as fortunate, I accept it as
accidents; but even in these ills the happy a fact. The question is
home was signally favored. Once, indeed, Mrs. Howland interrupted him: "You
little Emma fell from a corner of the boat- must not make an error there, Edward; the
house into the river below. Charley, then necessity of occupation does exist and is
ten years old, - not large of his age or phys- paramount for Charley; without it every
ically strong, but of heroic stuff, - dashed in day of his life will be full of danger. In a
headlong to save his ~ousin, without wast- word, there is nothing to do but to take ~mim
ing breath to call for help. It was in the into the office, but it must be done carefully
spring-time, the ordinarily placid river was and intelligently. He will he disappointed,
swollen by freshets, and both the chil- I know, and for this you must make gen-
dren would inevitably have been drowned, erous allowance and compensation~ Gm~ e
if Stephen, the house-servant, had not seen him a post of some importance and respon-
the accident and called assistance. To sibility. Make him conscious of its value
offset this claim upon his aunt's speechless and its opportunities, and bear with his
gratitude, his cousin Fred pulled him out of earlier shortcomings. It must be done
a vent-hole in the ice the winter following, carefully, very carefully, brother, and with
at 'the imminent risk of his own life. If patience; for his future welfare hangs on
there had needed anything to cement more these few coming years."
closely the bonds of affection which already Mr. Wales accepted the situation in the
hound this happy home-community together, end, but with a certain inward impatience.
these events completed the work. From the There was a discordant character about it
day of the adventure on the frozen stream to a which grated on his peculiar notions. It
later and moreterrible one, when Frederick would be an innovation on the old, uimbroken,
Lowland breathed out his life in Charley's and unvarying rule of his office, and that
arms in an army hospital, the love he bore the party in whose favor the exception was

OUT OF THE WAY.              21

made was his son weighed but little again
his repugnance to the irregularity. Charl
reeked not of this, however, in the delig]
with which he entered into the world of hi
dreams, amid began the soulless lesson.
have intimated that his business career w~
not a success, and I shall not attempt a di
cussion of causes; it will be readily divine
that the awakening to the hard realities
the new life, the utter ruin and desolatic
of his old poetical ~tructure, and the mi~
ture of humiliation and disgust, followed
swiftly iii his ease; but he held on bravel
for a time, battling with the discouragement
that confronted him and stifling the protein
of his soul.
Mrs. Howland's health suddenly faihe
and in the following winter she came,
pursuance of advice, to live in town. Mi
Wales had previously left the house on th
Square, where the innovation of glittering;
signs and public tumults warned the quic
dwellers beyond its limits, and taken up hi
residence in one of a block of palaces on th
Avenue, where his sister came, at his request
and established herself with her daughter
It was a brief period of comfort for then
all during the winter. Mrs. Howland ral
lied from her weakness, and Charley foun
a priceless boon in the renewal of the old
sweet association. Emma Howland wn
blooming into beautiful womanhood, with
rich inheritance of her mother's lovely auc
noble nature; and even the banker relaxed
in a measure from his frozen preoccupation
in the changed atmosphere of his home, an~
was conscious of a certain dim suspicion al
times that his life had been barren of mucl~
that was good and seemly.
The spring that succeeded was that mem-
orable one in which war woke from its
sleep of fifty years, and walked forth in our
land. Fred Howland was at Harvard, and
from its patriotic shades, in those (lays of
blazing enthusiasm, he was among the first
tQ go to the field. He fell at Big Bethel by
the side of Theodore Winthrop, and died in
Charhey's arms a few days later at F6rtress
Monroe. The blow killed his mother; not
all at once, but it checked the improvement
of her health, and with the autumn flowers
she passed away. The blank that fell upon
the young lives of Charley and his cousin,
through her loss, cannot be expressed in
words. More than the young man realized,
perhaps, was it a loss to him at the time
when he was beginning to drift away from
his uncongenial task to wayward paths, im-
*&amp;   peeled, rather than checked, by the cold dis-
pleasure of his father, to drift as he would
never have done had the soft hand and
mother voice of old been there to restrain
him. -
s      The few years which preceded the open-
ing of this history were uneventful, yet still

st memorable, because in them his distaste
~y for business and proneness to unlawful dis-
1t traction grew too strong for control. His
is father gave him no moral help; he had never
I cared fbr and scarcely understood the thou-
~s sand nameless attractions in hifli which divide
s- the thoughts and labor of most men; he no-
d ticed only their influence in extreme cases,
f and condemned them unexamined in the
n mass. For his son he l]ad as little charity,
~- if not less, than lie would have had fir the
d most alien of his employees. But where he
y would have crushed the wrong tendency in
s the one, he met the other with a silent re-
mt seatment infinitely harder to endure; and
when, in time, he hurled the punishment on
I, his son, it was without a warning~ word.
n Chancy had looked forward to his admission
into the house as a partner, on his cominct
e of age, as a matter of course, and the expec-
~ station had helped to restrain him in the
t weary struggle. When the anniversary ar-
s rive4, however, and was let pass without a
~ movement in the direction of his advance-
,, ment, he threw off the last bond of his alle-
giance, and in his bitter humiliation aban-
m doned the hope of any possible future sue-
- cess in the office. He turned more fully
I from that day into those attractive ways
wherein the men of his age find solace and
entertainment in the days of their youth, and,
if less recklessly than most, with still as little
I ambition for anything better or dread of
I anything worse. He did not positively go
down upon the black books of the world as
I one of the undefined fraternity of "fast
young men"; society dealt leniently with
the great banker's son, and would still have
smiled sweetly and sought its mildest ex-
* pressing to the end for him, had his name
been a synonym of vice; but there re-
mnained for him a better influence, far stron-
ger and dearer than even he dreanmed, which
was ever a living shield between him and
the grossest evil. The lessons of a child-
hood such as his had been, the daily contact
with natures as delicate and pure as his own,
had wrought a bright and unfading strand
in his character, which wotild strengthen the
weaker man, and which, if it could not pre-
vent his stumbling, would hehjin him in the
effort to rise.
At the breakfast-table that morning no
further mention was made of the missing
Chancy, but his father wrote a brief note,
before leaving for the office, to be handed to
his son when he should come down. As
the banker withdrew, his eye met the anx-
ious glance of his niece, and he paused an
instant in evident hesitation; then he passed
out quickly, covering his departure by some
last injunction to the servant.
Charhey came in later in the morning, and
met his cousin on his way up stairs. She
seemed to have been watching for him, but


22                                0110
he only addressed her with his ordinary
salute, and went hurriedly to his room.
Here he read the communication from his
father. "I must remind you," it said, "that
you have but twenty-four hours to make
your final preparations in. I will attend to
everything down town, so that it will not be
necessary for you to revisit the office, and I
will see you when you go. I haie said
nothing of the matter to your cousin, and
would recommend you to leave all explana-
tion to me."
He sat some time ruminating over the
lines. He looked as if he had not slept,
and seemed to have been drinking, - drink-
ing as a man sometimes does in the vain
effort to drown his thoughts. Something
like defiance had flashed into his face at
the first reading of the note, hut it, died
away again into a gloomy shadow, which
grew infinitely sad as his heavy eyes wan-
dered over his pretty room, so full of the
happy souvenirs of his young life. From
the walls pictured faces looked down upon
him, - that of his aunt, with her grave, sweet
smile, faced the strange and severe visage
of his forgotten another, copied by his own
hand from the great, staring portrait of
twenty years before, which hung down
stairs; and side by side, in the sunlight, his
two cousins - the brave boy sleeping at
Old Point Comfort, and the fair-faced girl
he had passed on the stair - gazed at him
with loving eyes. He looked long at the
last; it also was the work of his hand, and
one upon which he had spent all his skill.
He remembered well the burst of applause
which had greeted its first exhibition, long
before, to the circle at the country home;
and while he studied its girlish features -
the pretty, uxifilled shadow of the beautiful
woman-face of to-day - the crushed paper
dropped from his hand, and two big tears,
which would no longer he repressed, rolled
down his cheeks. Then he aroused himself
with a start: "Heigho! What should
such fellows as I do? I wonder if Prince
Hamlet would have gambled and stolen?"
- the word caine hard -" perhaps, if lie
had been Charley Wales." And if Horatio
had been Dick Huntley! He went to work
th~h sharply. He would not have Stephen
in to ask questions or worry his old head;
so he ~lmgged out a large trunk from the
closet and threw it open, disclosing a choice
assortment of fishing-togs which had done
service the summer previous at Minot's
Ledge. Then he gathered some armfuls of
effects from the vast repository of his ward-
robe, and, tossing them on the floor, stood
thereafter in the midst of them, an amusing
picture of helplessness, despite his sad face.
Afterwards he did better. What did it
matter, indeed? A few things carelessly
and hurriedly put in; some little treasures,

dSY.                                                 OUT OF THE WAY.

less carelessly selected, from the store of
souvenirs on his table; a book or two, some
photographs, and a packet of letters, - and
the task was done. He closed and locked the
trunk, and tossed the remaining things igno-
miniously back into the closet just as Stephen
summoned him to luncheon. As he entered
the dining-room, struggling hard to look un-
concerned, his cousin met him with a
troubled face, and, drawing' near, laid her
hand softly on his shoulder. ~" Charley, what
is the matter? I know something has hap-
pened between yoi~ and your father."
"We have not quarrelled, Em, if that 's
what you mean," he said with a smile.
She looked fixedly at him, without seem~
ing to notice the words, and his gaze
avoided hers uneasily. "You are going
away," she said.
Charley looked alarmed. "No! - that is
- what made you think that ~
"I hear you packing in your room."
He was at a loss, and stood silent some
moments, digging his boot in the thick car-
pet with eyes downcast. Then he looked
up sadly, hut spoke with quiet resolution:
"You are right, Em, something has hap-
pened, but 1 can't tell you what; at least
not just now. Don't ask me, please."
She grew paler, and her hand trembled
slightly, but sl]e kept it on his shoulder.
"Then you are going away?"
"Yes, 1 am - not far - that is, not for
long, I hope. Shall you care much?" The
words were uttered thoughtlessly, and he
looked in her eyes as he spoke. They fell
a moment, but met his own again full and
warm in the next.
"You know I shall care, Charley. What
should I do without you? And then to have
you go away dn bad terms with uncle!"
"No worse than usual," lie broke in, bit-
terly. The brief flash of feeling had died
as it came.
'.' I wish we could all he happier here,"
she said with a sigh. "Don't you think
you could be if you tried 2- with yodr
father, I mean."
He turned away to the table at the words.
"1 should not make the effort, even if he
gave mc the chance, which is n't likely; it
is n't worth talking about. Let 's eat our
lunch and be jolly."
It was not jolly, however, despite his
well-sustained efforts to make it so. His
cousin w~is thoughtful and troubled through-
out, and at the conclusion stopped him
quickly, when he made a strategical effort
to leave the room. "When do you go?"
she asked.
"To-morrow, or next day. Why, how
worried you look because I can't tell you
all about it! Don't you see, it may be one
of those terrible business affairs, - crisis at
the Bank of Son'mething, - delinquent cash-

icr, and I a special emissary to protect th
gigantic interests of Wales, Burton, &amp; Co
bound in the nature of business to conduct
my operations with the tremendous mystcr~
appropriate to the case. You poor pusm
don't bother your brain about it! I wil
see you again, - must go down town now
Au rcvoir!" And he got away, leaving he
no whit relieved.
She went to her own room with an anx
ious and sinking heart, and sat awhile is
troubled thought; then she yielded to th(
temptation of her fears, and stole up t
Charley's room only to find the door locked
and the key gone, - a state of things with
out precedent, and which sent her back tc
her chamber more alarmed than before. Al
last she rang for Stephe~m. The good old
man had been her mother's servant, and
had watched and loved the cousins from their
earliest years. He looked distressed as he
came in.
"Did you want me, Miss Emmie?"
"Yes, I wished to ask you - Stephen,
I 'm afraid something very serious has oc-
curred between Mr. Charles and hi~ father."
Stephen shuffled uneasily before the in-
quiring gaze of his young mistress. He
possessed an endless sympathy for her, but
he was discretion itself, and he had con-
ceived, moreover, a wholesome respect for
the senior Wales, which, in these later years,
had in no small measure subdued the once
lively tendencies of his tongue. "I hope
not, Miss Emmie," he said, - "I hope not.
You know they have some little difThrence
atween 'em, but that will all come right in
time. Mr: Charles is very yo]ng, you see,
Miss Enimie. Why, it seems on'y yestcr-
day-~~
"Yes, I know, Stephen, but I think there
is something - something dreadful now.
Charley is going away."
"Bless you, Miss Emmie, you don't mean
it!"
"Yes; he has been packing all the morn-
mug.
"I am astonishedd to hear you. Packing?
Why, Mr. Charles never packed his own
trunk in his lifi~!" And Stephen~s incre-
dulity got the better of his anxiety for the
moment.
"But he did to-day, and he told me he
was going away. Don't you know anything
about it, Stephen? Don't you know what
was in the note his father left for him this
morning'?"
He looked at her reproachfully. "Bless
you, Miss Emmie, how should I? I will
tell you," he added, after a sober pause,
"all I saw, though I ought n't, because it
was not for me to see. After I gave Mr.
Charles the note this morning, I thought
he might want some breakfast, so I went up
again, and knocked at his door. I knocked

23

e three times, Miss Emmie, and got no an-
swer; then, thinks 1, perhaps he is ill or
t needs something, so I made bold to open
~' the door. There I saw him sitting , very sol-
, cmn-like, on a chair, Miss Emmie," con-
I tinned the old man, and his voice grew
- tremulous in the recital, "with the paper in
r his hand; but he was n't a reading' of it, he
was looking up at the picture of poor Mr.
- Frederick on the wall, absent-like, and the
tears was running' down his cheeks. I shut
the door, then, very soft, and came away~
I would n't 'a' told this to any one but you,
I Miss Eminic."
He drew his sleeve across his eyes as he
concluded, but Emma did not see it. It was
growing dark in the room, but had the old
man's eyes been less dim he might have seen
by the firelight her own tears falling thick
and fast. There was silence after this, until
he said witlvwn effort," Thank you; that is
all, Stephen."
As the door closed on the servant her
head sank wearily forward into her hands,
and the great dread at her heart welled
up in unrestrained and almost convulsive
weeping. The scene so simply pictured by
Stephen confirmed her fears; what it was
she knew not, but that something had
occurred to rob her not very happy home
of its single bright presence was no longer
to be doubted. She made an effort and
went down when the dinner-bell rang.
Charley had not come home, and Mr. Wales
sat in his place more silent and stern than
she had ever seen him. She burned to ask
him for some explanation, but his face for-
bade her, and she excused herself, in sheer
inability to bear up longer in his presence,
and hurried from the untasted meal to her
own room. Here she kept watch with her
tears, struggling with the terror and faint-
ness of her heart, and longing, 0 so bitterly!
for that mother's help and the dead brother's
hand in this hour of peril. Far into the
night she sat thus, and then lay sleepless,
still straining her ears painfully for the
famnilkir step which did not come. She
went down to breakfast with almost a fever
in her brain. Mr. Wales lool~ed disturbed,
- angry, she thought, - but imothing could
prevent her speaking now, and she asked,
desperately, "0 uncle! do tell me what is
the trouble with Charley. Why is he go..
ing away? Where is he going?"
The banker looked at her not unkindly,
almost pitifully.
"I will tell you to-night, Emma. You
must not be distressed; we will do all for
the best."
She had to be content with this, for she
felt the uttem~ hopelessness of demanding
more. The banker going out -to his carriage
carried with him the picture of the pale,
strained face, so like the Ellen Wales of

ISY.


24                               CHOISY.
long ago, and said to himself as l~.e rolled extraction, and it was said that he was an
away, "Thank God, she died before this Englishman; but I, who enjoyed a nodding
came!" acquaintance with him in those days, do not
0 the man of gold with the unseeing remember that any one ever vouched for the
heart! If she had lived, this never would fact. He had come into the street, as so
have come. many come, from unknown parts, and figured
The day went on; Charley did not come for some years as a small and careffil operator
to the house, but late in the morning a with considerable shrewdness and a supposi-
baggage-express called for his trunk, and titious capital. People began to notice him
the man had the key of his room. Emma after a time, and quote his reserved opinions,
was wild with terror; lie was going without and th~ thousand-tongued rumor of the walk
seeing her, going she knew not where. ultimately associated him with certain great
She met the man in the hall, trembling with clique-leaders; when the Steruson "corner"
fear and excitement, in Cape Mail occurred, when, indeed, as is
"Did Mr. Wales - the young Mr. Wales written in the archives of William Street,
send you for his trunk?" she demanded. they sold the stock over the counter for
"Yes, ma'am."                       cash like so many Poor Man's Plasters at
"And gave you this key?"             the fixed price otthrce hundred and fifty
"He left the key at our office, ma'am."  dollars a 5hare, time whole street waiting in
"When?"                             line for it at that or any cost, it got noised
"Yesterday."                         about that Dick fluntley was "long" of it
"Yesterday! then he    Where do you to the very handsome figure of a thousand
take the trunk?"                       shares, and be was a made man from that
Either the m~n had been warned or day in the estimation of all the wise men
chance favored the mystery.           from Trinity to Tontine.  Whatever his
"I take to the office, ma'am; the different success may have been, however, he did not
lots is made up there, you see, for the boats fall into the common but grievous error of
and trains.~~                         flashing' it in the eyes of a less fortunate
"And you cannot tell - you don't know world; he remained the quiet, rather attrac-
where lie - where it is going?"        tive man you were always glad to encounter,
"It would be hard to do that; only a hut from whom you parted with a vague
guess, there's so many trains, you know, consciousness of having stumbled on a
ma~am.~~ sealed book; and he was the same well-met
She had strength for no more questions, man to all, without making any man his
and abandoned the inquiry, going back to friend. Even when he began to show at
her room in dumb despair. By her fireside she the club, he brought his atmosphere with
was sitting, worn and wretched, as the sun him, bearing himself courteously to all, but
went down; by his fireside also, in the still keeping something apart; and if he was
Continental Hotel at Philadelphia, sat Mr. not especially liked, he was cordially re-
Richard Huntley, smoking tranquilly and spected, and rather famed withal, as a good
framing bright visions of his future among specimen of " the rising man."
the glowing coals. Held carelessly in his In due course he established himself in
hand was a telegram received and read Broad Street, and sent his modest card
some moments before - around. The new concern of Huntley &amp;
"C. W. sailed for Europe to-day in Scotia. Co. surprised no one, but responded rather
"SAM~' to general expectation, and met with know-
ing suggestions of "silent partners," "very
strong," and with universal approval and
CHAPTER IV.                fair augury. He got a good line of business
too, for it was known that he held his own
TILE SUCCESSFUL MAN.         ) well in the Open Board, and it was believed
Mn. HUNTLEY returned to New York also that he had dropped personal specula-
from the antique shades of the City of tion, though there were no visible guaranties
Brotherly Love in a thoughtful but alto- for that opinion; and the fond public, or
gather satisfied state of mind; he had said that portion of it which constitutes* the
aloud, on reading the dispatch from Wor- contributive body to Wall Street, is prone tQ
thington, "C~z va bien!" Which is terse, accept many comforting but delusive state-
abbreviated, and idiomatic French, covering ments of that nature. It was not long before
in this instance a world of meaning, ade- Huntley managed to figure in more colossal
quately to set forth which requires some transactions, and claim the recognition of
space in explanation. the crowd as an agent of the cliques; and
Mr. Huntley was one of those well-known he performed a real masterpiece of strategy
men of whom we know nothing, who flourish in the Board one day, "hulling" a weak
so extensively on our generous American stock successfully against a strong combina-
soil. Such are not uncommonly of foreign tion, that was the talk of the street for weeks.

THE SUCCESSFUL MAN.               25

In a word, he was a success. In the fe
years he had lived in the financial mart I
studied silently the field, and, entering
afterwards as an active man, he pushed h
way rapi(lly to the front, with a subtle ma:
tery of all the details of business, and
clear insight into its mysteries which noti
ing escaped. It needed only that he shoul
secure a footing within the select circle
the great houses, and obtain the protection
and endorsement of some one among them
once established in that coign of vantage~
his course was clear and the end assured
It will be imagined that he soon founi
means to accomplish that object, and th
modes will bear description.
The young house of Iluntley &amp; Co. coul
not claim to be a heavy lender of money
but it was known to carry hamidsome hal
'ances at times, and was quite high on the list,
of the borrowers. One afternoon they had ar
application for fifty thousand dollars from r
small neighbor. Huntley was in the office
at the time, and, though fully aware of hh
inability to accommodate them at the
moment, he did not omit to examine the
collateral. Something about them fastened
his attention; he was a very clever judge
of securities, and he made careful notes
before handing them back to the bearer.
"Sorry I can't serve you," he said, "but
we have drawn lower than I supposed; try
Brooks, or, still better, perhaps, Wales, Bur-
ton."
The clerk hurried away. Huntley sent
a boy to watch him, made some pencil notes
from memory, and awaited the return of his
spy, who came back directly.
" Well ?" he asked.
"Made his loan at Wales, Burton, sir.
The broker called in at the great house
at an early hour the following morning and
requested a private audience of Mr. Wales,
who received him politely; he was not
unknown to the banker, but he was on the
latter's list of" new men," - a class he dealt
with cautiously.
"I will not apologize for taking your
time, Mr. Wales," he said, "the matter is
one of confidence, and I come in the pro-
tection of mutual interests. I recommended
a party to your house for money, last night,
- Stevens and Leonard. Do you happen
to know it' you loaned them anything?"
"We did."
"Fifty thousand, was it not, on a thou-
sand Erie?"
"I think so. I will inquire-"
"Will you also allow me to see the col-
laterals?"
"Certainly."
The securities were brought, and, drawing
a memorandum from his pocket, Huntley
compared some numbers and further ex-
amined the certificates; ten of Erie Railway
4

w common stock of one hundred shares each.
ie It was a rapid, though thorough, inspection,
it at the conclusion of which he exclaimed,
is "I was afi'aid of it! they are altered certifi-
s- cates, Mr. Wales!"
a "Is it possible?"
"I am sorry to say it is undoubted. I
d regret to have been the cause, perhaps, of
f your taking them in; but I was on the
n point of advancing the loan myself, when
my cashier informed me we could not do it.
I had already taken the numbers in pencil
I. at the moment. By the merest accident,
I having some Erie transfers to make this
a morning, I noticed the rather uncommon
entry of ten shares in one-share lots upon
I the hook. The name struck me at once. I
asked to see thej stumps' and compared these
- numbers, which I fortunately had about me.
They are the same certificates, sir, altered
to a hundred shares each!"
Of course, Wales, Burton, &amp; Co. lost no
time in securing themselves, which they
were barely in time to do, by attaching the
bank account of the eccentric gentlemen,
Messrs. Stevens and Leonard; and of
course, Mr. Huntley secured the most valu-
able patrons he could have had, perhaps, in
the street, and with them the position to
which he aspired. He was, henceforth, a
frequent and cordially received visitor at
their office; and the moral effect - the
moral effects of Wall Street are peculiar -
of his coup was to give him the confidence
of men, and procure for him an increase of
business and opportunities.
Charley Wales thus came to see more of
the man with whom he had previously en-
joyed a speaking acquaintance at the club,
and who had always possessed a certain
attraction for him, - as he did, indeed, for
every one.
Charley sought and cultivated a more
intimate intercourse, which we were all
surprised to see freely accorded; and it was
said at the Mayflower that Dick Huntley
had at last found his "man 'Friday." It
was less difficult to explain the intimacy on
the youimg man's side, for there could hardly
have been a character more attractive to him
than that of this passed man of the world, who
carried under his calm exterior the rich and
varied experiemmee of his class, and who,
when he chose to put away the sober day-
dress of his life, as he sometimes did for
Charley, showed beneath the real warmth
and passion of his nature. To Charley he
opened the closed pages of a singularly
eventful career; not all of them, indeed,
nor any that were too darkly shaded, but
very many of that tenor which fascinates an
impressible nature like that of his young
friend. Nothing could have equalled the
charm which the latter found in the fabric
of reminiscences dealing with other lands

)


26                        CHOISY.                                                      THE SUCCESSFUL MAN.                  27

and the great and small people thereof, and
checkered with the adventures of a clever
but rather reckless young man to whom
Continental life was a solved problem at an
age when most men are entering upon its
investigation. From these detached bits of
his history Chancy gathered in time what
formed a half-connected train of events.
Iluntley was a younger son of a good
family - as Chancy suspected, a titled one
- in England, ~nd had gone out to India
with his regiment at an early age, to hold
his own as best he might in that hotbed of
nature and social life. The traditions of a
tempestuous youth were not ignored: in the
colonial world, Charley judged, but on this
period of his life Iluntley touched very
lightly. He came back after some years to
England, - a circumstance which seemed to
have received no attention at the War Of-
fice, - and subsequently went on the Con-
tinent as an atlache', where he floated frbm
embassy to embassy for more than ten years;
and it was this interval which furnished the
sparkling souvenirs which were Charley's
delight. Of the circumstances which led
to his emigration to America, Huntley never
spoke, and Charley did not seek to know;
the barrier of reserve peculiar to the man
was never entirely removed, even for him.
The intimacy was naturally the subject of
considerable, and not always very charitable,
remark among the rather outspoken mem-
bers of the Mayflower club for a time; but I
am certain that when Iluntley began to come
more among us with Charley, and, relaxing
from his former reticence, showed us at
times something of the unsuspected man
within, there was not one of the observant
company who failed to feel the rare charm
of his presence, or wondered longer at Char-
ley's preference. Old Byrnes would have
his growl. It had been his privilege to
know Aaron Burr, and to him he was fain
to lik~n Dick Huntley in manner and ap-
pearance; hut he, too, would look up from
the columns of his paper and listen as
attentively as the rest of us when the broker
had the floor.
Huntley was an occasional guest at the
Wales mansion. Charley had met with an
unusually gracious. response when he first
proposed his friend's company at his father's
table, and his boyish ambition to exhibit
the pro(ligy to his cousin led to many
subsequent visits. There were very many
pleasant evenings indeed in the grand
parlors, where the handsome and fascinating
broker came soon enough to be the centre
of attraction for all eyes and ears. He
went very little into society, and seldom
except with Charley, but he met every-
where with the same smiling reception;
questions of antecedents were forgotten in
the great fact that he was a brilliant and

rising man; and the patronage of the Wales
family was itself a guaranty which silenced
any captious inquiries. At the social
events at the Wales niansion he was soon
an unfailing light; he grew, in fact, to be
their crowning feature in the feminine
esteem; and if any delicate argument some-
times arose in some fair bosom as to the
propriety of attending the "Wales party"
or the " XVales musical" because Mr.
Charles Wales hadTheen neglectfiml in his
calls or Miss lowland and her friend and
chaperone, Mrs. White Jennings, similarly
remiss in their conventional duties, it was
more than answered in the reflection that
"Mr. Huntley was sure to be there!"
And so, in truth, he was, and his faithful
presence at the banker's house ultimately
gave rise to certain pleasant conjectures in
which Mr. Charles ceased to figure as the
explaining cause; very many good people
foresaw at once a happy alliance for the
broker, which was quite in pursuance of
their previous prognostications respecting
Mr. Huntley's future, and on the 'Change of
gossip the matter speedily became an
accepted fact. That the possibility had
dawned on his own mind at an early day is
also true; he never lost sight of the utmost
reach of his opportunities, or failed to weigh
them promptly and thoroughly; and the
advantages offered to him at Charley's
home were carefully considered by him
from the first. He did not immediately
determine upon action, for there existed
some formidable objections to marriage
in his case; but the project grew upon him
insensibly, even while he reasoned with him-
self on its impracticability, until he had half
mechanically entered upon its execution. It
is possible that he would still and indefinitely
have pursued that course in the half-consent-
ing and half-resisting spirit in which men's
dispositions beguile their judgments, but
that a sudden rude shock aroused him to a
perception of an unsuspected obstacle, put
an altogether new face on the situation, and
left him the choice of withdrawal or of
entering formally into what promised to be
a difficult campaign. The obstacle was, in
truth, a tremendous one. To say that his
reception at the banker's had been warm
and encouraging scarcely expresses the
unreserved friendliness which Mr. Wales
manifested for the successful man of the
street, and the equally unquestioning re~
gard shown by Miss lowland for her
cousin's friend; there had never been any
abatement of either, and he was able to
measure with satisfaction the evident pleas-
ure ienived from his company by all alike,
and especially, perhaps, by the young
woman, to whom, as to Chancy, the man
was a revelation; it was only when he ven-
tured, with delicate empressernent, a nearer

approach to her, that he met with a ver
perceptible element of repulsion. Too war
to commit an indiscretion, he did not imme
diately repeat the experiment; but a sul
sequent moment of encouragement havin~
offered itself; he made a second advance
and was received with a cold surprise whic]
completely baffled him, while it stung hin
into consciousness. He awoke sharply ti
the knowledge of an unseen lion in th
path; but on9e awakened, it needed no lonl
time for the clear eye to penetrate thii
shadow to the fact, and to reduce that a
well to its exact proportions.
Emma lowland loved her cousin, - th~
laughing, careless boy, whose fondness fo:
her, if it had possibly a deeper root, ha(
never taken, he was sure, the form anc
semblance of love. The discovery Was noi
a flattering one to Huntley, who held m
small opinion of his own merits and capa
abilities with the sex; but he did not allow
the feeling to blind him to the strength am]
endurance of the woman's affection, which,
as he very correctly estimated, was th
growth of years of intimate association, aiid
a sentiment closely latwined with her wl~ok
life.
The revelation brought on a crisis in
Huntley's life. His first confused resolve
was to leave the field, to leave Charley to
the ultimate and inevitable enjoyment of
the rare love and the rare woman who
waited only to be asked, and to whom, as
he could so clearly foresee, the unthinking
boy of to-day would turn some other day in
a 5u(lden awakening of his own man's heart.
'ihis first true impulse was only natural
on Huntley's part, for he had liked Char-
ley, liked him for himself, and made him
as much his friend as it was possible
for the man to make any one; but in
the tumult of thought and feeling which
followed it, the boy was but a straw tossed
in the passionate flood of the elder's
soul.
XVhy give it up? Why give her up?
Ay! iman!
Hantley stopped short in a mad prome-
nade of his own chamber, and faced his re-
flection in the mirror. It was not an un-
common thing for him to do; and as for
that he might search far and long to find
the equal of the splendid face with its deep
black eyes and wonderful power of expres-
smon which looked out at him at that mo-
ment, - looked out with a strange light upon
~    it, and a curve iii the lips which was half
smile, half sarcasm. Many a time had he
thus faced the man in the glass, and held
excited debate with the emotionless shadow.
~    It nerved an~ cooled him to do so; and
in more than o~me dark passage of his life it
had been a singularly strengthening thought
to him that, come what might, the creature

y before him would be the same magnificent
y work of nature still.
"Is it you, Dick Huntley?" asked the
shade, with the curve deepening about the
g mouth, - "really you, and after all these
, years and all your lessons? Just now, too,
Ii when you have your future in your hands,
a and a weakness would be fatal. J'shaw!
o what is it? A pretty girl's heart, a brief
e tale of legendary 'bliss.' You ought to
~ know what that is worth, and what it
e sometimes costs I "
s The face was a sneering devil's now. He
did not like it, and resumed his walk with-
m out calling up his visionary guest again.
r The struggle was a fierce~ one, but it was
I brief, as with him any struggle must be.
I He ended it by tossing his cigar in the grate
and tossing himself upon a lounge with a
ninoino' lauo-h. "Egad I there 'II be merri-
- mne~t % heYl to-night! And now, travail-
ions!"
The good woman who had the honor to
be Mr. Huntley's landlady, and who was at
that moment an aifrighted listener at his
keyhole, did not possess, fortunately, a
knowledge of the Continental languages;
had she done so, she would have been inex-
pressibly shocked by the nature as well as
the expression of these last words, and
have seen in the smiling gentleman who
came out some moments later, and passed
her with a bow in the hall, nothing less
than Mephistopheles "warm from his bed";
and she would not have been far wrong,
figuratively speaking.
Huntley's intercourse with the family at
the house on the avenue went on as before;
he had experienced one nervous tremor in
approaching Miss Howlaid again, but her
manner indicated no recollection of the
circumstance we have noted, and the broker
was careful to avoid the dangerous ground
whereon he had slipped. As for Emma,
she led herself easily to believe that she
had erred in being startled at all, and even
chided herself for the momentary emotion
she had felt. There had been a vague
shadow which rose when Huntley came
again, but this faded before his guarded
manner, and under the convi6tion that she
had misjudged him, she labored to efface
the effect, if there might be any, by in-
creased kindness towards him. Huntley
read the simple girl-heart as he would have
rea~l an opened book, and shaped his course
thereby. He shut up his secret in his soul,
and gave no sign; but he went out to'his
work with watchful eyes, and with every
faculty of his being centered on the attaiji-
ment of his hopes. The situation was
difficult. There could be no progress for
him so long as Chancy remained on the
scene, and everything hung on the removal
or the destruction of the obstacle. No


5,
A

CHOISY.

28

BENT TO TIlE TASK.

wonder that Mr. Huntley wrinkled his fine
brows of nights over the problem, or that in
his vexed heart the friendship for his young
friend curdled quickly into bitter hate.
Who stood in this man's way was his ene-
my, and towards none had he ever known a
deeper resentment than against the warm-
hearted boy who had been the chosen inti-
mate of yesterday. Intimate he still re-
mained, and in the manner of the elder no
shade of change was allowed to appear;
but he schemed and waited, trusting in his
old, confident way to chance.
We have seen how chance, true to the
interests of this man-waif, who was its devo-
tee, came in an hour and solved the enigma
for him. iluntley had not been able to
find an answer to the question which was
ever in his thoughts after the night at
Worthington's, as to what would be the re-
sult of the affair. His hopes covered a
variety of sequences, all having a general
conclusion, and pointing to a more or less
complete estrangement between father and
son, and partial or permanent banishment
of the latter from the office in Wall Street,
and from New York. He hoped it, without
daring to expect it, and pictured to him-
self a possible exile to some Western city
as the likeliest result. More than this he
had scarcely anticipated, and it may be
imagined with what exultation he read
the telegram, and broke the silence of his
room with the ringing words, "Cit va
bien I"
It had indeed "gone well," better by
some thousand miles of sea than he had
ventured in his wildest thought to hope.
It was all he asked. The boy was far re-
moved now; his be the task to keep him
away.
He called in at the banker's on his arri-
val, and was received somewhat nervously
by the latter. "I have been over to Phila-
delphia, Mr. Wales," he said, in ordinary
business tone, "and I find, as I expected,
that there is no life in that quicksilver af-
fair; nothing doing or likely to be done in
it, and I think Simpson must ~mave been
misinformed."
"Ah I-yes, probably," responded the
banker, rather absently. He was busy with
some papers, and did not look up at the
speaker.
Huntley experienced a little uncomforta-
ble thrill. "All well, I trust, Mr. Wales, at
your house, - Miss lowland and Charley,
- I missed him outside." He watched the
banker like a hawk, andsaw him recover
himself sharply at the name, and pause
before speaking.
"You will be surprised to learn that my
son has gone away."
"Gone away I I beg your pardon -"
Huntley was the picture of amazement

and concern, as the banker turned in his
chair, and added, "He sailed for England
yesterday. The event is one which in-
volves some painful explanations, and I beg
you will allow me to make them at some
future time."
Huntley bowed in silence.
"As you circulate somewhat among his
acquaintance," continued Mr. Wales, in
some embarrassment, and fumbling with a
check-cutter, "I had thought of asking you,
Mr. iluntley, as my son's friend, to confer
a favor on us. His abrupt departure~)will
occasion some remark, perhaps; will t not
be as well to attribute it to ill-health? In
fact, it is but a tardy pursuance of the
course advised by Dr. Martin after Char-
icy's illness in the spring, and which his
own disinclination alone prevented his fol-
lowing at the time."
"I shall be glad to do as you desire, Mr.
Wales. I need not say that I am shocked
by the event; but I trust we shall have him
back again, bright and hearty, before many
months." He watched closely for the ef.
feet of these words, and experienced a
secret delight in noting that the banker
affected not to hear them, and turned again
to his desk. "May I inquire his address,
Mr. Wales?" he asked, rising.
"Letters in Tompkins's care at Paris will
reach him for the present."
Huntley rgturaed his thanks, and went
to his own office in a happy state of mind
concealed under a troubled exterior. One
important point which had caused him some
lingering anxiety was settled, - his own
connection with the affair at the gaming-
house was unknown to Mr. Wales; and an
important pr'obability was also certified,
- there was no prospect of an early return
of the exile.
He made his appearance at the May-
flower in the evening with a serious face,
and to the questions with which he was be-
sieged - for Charley's sudden voyage was
already generally known - he replied,
gravely and sadly, "Doctor's orders. I
had not suspected it myself, but it seems he
was ordered abroad in the spring, and would
not go. I am awfully sorry, but I suppose
it was the best thing to do."
A general oxpr~ssion of regret and good
wishes followed the intelligence, while Hunt-
icy withdrew to a corner and read the brief
and rather incoherent note of farewell
which Chancy had left for him with Simms.
That ever-smiling functionary, who had,
however, toned down his face into some-
thino' akin to sadness suited to the occasion,
stood discreetly aloof while the broker pe-
rused~the missive, after which he apologized
for the liberty, but begged to state that Mr.
Wales had left a fund in his hands to liqui-
date his obligations to different gentlemen

2

at the club. Would Mr. Huntley kindly it all, you know, and if you neglect me in
name the amount due him? this I shall conclude that my fidus Acitates
Huntley said "Never mind" rather impa- is a spurious article. Don't think, my dear
tiently, and called for paper? and ink. In fellow, from all this lightly written gossip,
the hour that followed he wrote busily, and that I have lost sight for a moment of the
finished two letters. The first was a long inevitable bitterness of the affair for you. I
one to Charley, opening with the expression only wish to have you make the best of it,
of a great deal of regret and some self-ac- and help you to do SO if I can. I enclose
cusation; "though if you had told me," it ydu an introductory line to an old Paris
said, "that you had that infernal check friend of mine. You will find him clever
about you, you should n9ver have gone to and good to know, and he has the Grande
Worthington's with me or with my consent. Ville by heart; in fact, when I think twice
It was ou1y after reading your lines here at of it, I would say don't fail to look him up.
the club to-night that I was able to seize lie will be an invaluable acquaintance, and
the clew to the mystery of your sudden de- one after your heart."
parture. My God! what a mistake and Iluntley's second missive was also Paris-
what consequences!" But following this bound, and bore the address of Monsieur
l~e brought out the brighter side with rare Edonard Somers, Poste de la Madeline. It
cheerfulness. "I will be watchful for you was somewhat carefully and laboriously
here, and if anything can be done at any written, and concluded in these words:
time to arrange matters, you may be sure I "Above all, he must not comae home. Keep
will do it if it is in my power. I can't bear him there at all hazards, and by any means
to think of your being sent away like that you like. It is worth more money to me
for a slip any man might make in such a than you would believe, and will be worth
moment; but it is not for me to judge, of to you; ~&amp; va sans dire. Note
course. At any rate, my dear boy, a little my suggestions, but take your own course;
time smoothes over these things wonderfully. tier is the word! tie him up, and draw on
You will think I speak by the card, and me, if you require any funds, through Tomp-
perhaps I do; and I tell you emphatically kins, though, as I have said, he must have
I shall have no patience with you if you a liberal credit, and can be made to pay the
continue to harp on the fancied 'disgrace' bills easily enough. Finally, write me
of your little mistake. If we were all to regularly, and keep me informed of his
be hung for an equal guiltiness, Charley, movements."
there would be no one left for the rope- It was also to M. Edouard Somers that
puller. Keep good heart, and enjoy life as Charley's letter of introduction was ad-
it comes to you over there. We shall have dressed.
it all right again for you here before you
are half through with Europe. By Jove!
if it were not for the manner of your going,       CHAPTER V.
I should say you were danced lucky in get-
ting away for a foreign holiday just now, BENT TO THE TASK.
when the office had grown so tame for you!" HUNTLEY allowed some days to pass before
And thereafter succeeded some useful and he called at the house on the avenue.
pleasant hints respecting the "doincr" of When, at length, he did so, he was met at
London and Paris, into which the writer the door by Stephen, who presented the
infused so much of his old charm of style, excuses of his young mistress; she was ill,
that Charley, devouring the letter a fort- and ki~pt her room. Would he see Mr.
night later, in the warm light of an Eug- Wales?
hish coffee-room, finished it with a sigh, and "No, not to-night."
thought what a clever, good fellow Dick He pencilled four words of sympathy on
Huntley was. The letter further said, "I his card and went away; she~received and
shall see your cousin often, as you request, - noted it with indifference, but recovered
as often, at least, as seems agree able to her. herself; momentarily, afterwards, and called
She will miss you terribly, but woman-like, the servant back to say that when Mr.
you know, devises some consolation with Huntley came again she would see him.
the assistance of her friend, Miss Clare. Very wretched and miserable had these
Your exodus is attributed to ill-health; you days been to liar, - sunless, hopeless days,
know there was something said of your go- that make one grow old and press out the
ing ont in the spring, and there is no whis- freshness of young hearts with their weight.
per of anything else. I will take care to There had come to her on the day following
check that, if the necessity arises, and I Charley's departure, by some unknown mes~
will shut up Robbie if he is disposed to talk. singer, a brief, spotted scrawl in her cousin's
in all possible things where I can he of ser- hand. It had been his latest act before
vice, don't fail to command me, and above going on the steamer to write it; he had
all write me often. I shall wish to know dreaded to do it, and neglectedit persistently

29


CHOISY.

until that last moment, when he had reached
a wild and almost chaotic state of mind,
and was half unconscious of what he wrote.
It was a confused, almost unmeaning, jumble
of words, and might be cruel levity or the
bitter outpourings of a despairing heart.
"I suppose I am neither worse nor better
than most men," he wrote; "I only know I
am not very happy, and do not expect to be
again. I know not where I shall go, or
what I shall do; what will it matter? I
shall adopt the true maxim of the outlaw,
and waste no love on a loveless world."
Twenty other equally reckless words,
redeemed by a little burst of affection for
herself at the end, and that was all; it
confirmed her fears, and she had gone in an
agony of terror and bewilderment to her
uncle, and demanded to know the whole
truth.
With all the gentleness of which he was
capable, Mr. Wales received her. lie
forbore to reveal Chancy's disgrace to her,
setting forth a rather plausibkf 'story about
the necessity of change for the young man,
dwelling lightly on his later and mistaken
course, and more forcibly on the benefit
of removal from damaging associations.
Ii           The sweet, tearful face touched a hidden
cord, perhaps; for he kissed her almost
tenderly when she left him, and said in con-
clusion, "It is all for the best, my dear, and
you must not grieve for him. The change
was an absolute necessity, and no doubt he
will find great enjoyment in new scenes, as
well as the benefits I hope for, and come hack
- come back some day, I trust, sobered
~nd improved."
And he did trust so. If there had
his wandering eye caught the steamer list
been any momentary compunction following
the resolve which he had so suddenly taken
on the morning of Mr. Knarles's visit, when
in the paper, it was rapidly appeased by his
arguments, - arguments so
reasonable in his own esteem
soon canie to regard the scheme
as a particularly happy conception~. He saw
h his son on board the vessel, and bade him
farewell solemnly, with much serious advice.
If          He made liberal provision for him abroad,
and left the limit of his absence to be fixed
by himself beyond a term which he con-
Ii          sidered it advisable to exact. He believed
lie had acted with good judgment and with no
little charity, and enjoyed intense seif-satis-
4           fiction in consequence. Had he been con-
scientious or even capable in an analysis of
II         the feeling, he would have found it to be
really more a sense of relief to himself than
a sentiment of especial regard for his ~on.
It might still be urged that the course
was a wise one, - possibly, as a tardy rem-
ed How~and
for the ne elected ill.
~mmna          accepted the fiat of her

uncle in dumb consciousness of the futility
of appeal. She fled from his presence, and,
alone with her misery, sought to find
consolation in hope; but it was a weary and
pitiful effort. These later years had been a
sad sequel to her happy childhood at the
river-side home. The double loss of mother
and brother had overwhelmed her with its
crushing weight; and from this she had
rallied, painfully 'clinging with desperation
to the sole remnant of~ the dear old life now
left to her, - the affection of her cousin. And
this, in its kind, was unfailing. It was nut
a sentiment of words, but an invisible element
of their every-day life, and, though unex-
pressed, no less a strong, enduring bond.
They had grown up together in an unbroken
home intimacy; there was not an event of
her life with which he was not associated,
and it had never entered her thoughts that
their future lives could be separated. The
child's affection had ripened with her years
into something stronger and deeper, but
the feeling had slept in the happy fullness of
the present. If there had been moments
when some secret voice spoke to the patient
heart, moments which bred a nameless
craving that stirred the hidden depths
of her being, she had hushed the one and
given the other no heed, living content in
her daily food. So had she passed the age
when most women in our tropic society are
married and given in marriage without a wish
or a thought of aught beyond their portions,
and in that she was happy. Charley was never
changed or careless, or less than he had ever
been to her. Probably in all their lives he
had never in word ordered so bruised her heart
as he had done by those unhappy farewell
gnes, and the cruel stroke awoke her fully
to the true nature of her feelings. There
was no resentment or any lesser emot ion in
her soul, however; all, everything, was swal-
lowed up in the single crushing thought of
her loss. She had never dreamed of that
possibility. Moments of trouble and little
fleeting pangs of heart she had sometimes
had, though to he jealous, as we use the
word, was not in her nature; but these had
faded as they came.
She summoned her forces in vain to meet
the blow; it was blank, bitter despair, with-
out a ray qf light, and it crushed and con-
quered her. She felt that she did nut know
all, that there was still a mystery hidden
beneath Charley's hurried lines and her
uncle's guarded words, but she cared to
know no more. What did it matter what
he had done? What could lie do, her
darling! that the world would not smile
upon, and any hut that cold, hard father
down stairs forgive with gladness? For
an instant the spirit of her mother glowed
in the wretched girl as the thought swept
through her mind; then she drooped again,

BENT TO     THE TASK.                          31
and the shadow came back. "Gone! gone! in the spring, and of course we 'ii take you.
her loved one, her life!"             I should like to see anything prevent that L"
She looked quite savage as she said it,
A ringing voice in the hail and a patter and pulled her feet away rather hurriedly;
of excited feet on the stairs aroused her there was getting to be a decided odor of
later on the evening of Huntley's call. She burnt leather in the room. "Bless me! I
looked up with a Ihint effort to smile as the have burned ray feet off making that speech;
door flew open and a young girl bounced spoiled the slippers, I' m afraid. Now, what
into the room, - a tall, dark girl, with great do you think I did?" she continued in the
flashing eyes, and checks crimson under the same rapid tone, turning excitedly towards
united influence of cold air and generous Emma, and ignoring the catastrophe of the
blood. She afforded a striking contrast to slippers.
the wan, pale-faced woman by the fire, as "I 'm sure I don't know, you child. Don't
she tossed what would have been called by put your feet so near the fire," responded
courtesy a hat at a distant chair, throwing Emma, smiling, despite herself, at the im-
a tiny sealskin jacket after it, and sprang pulsive girl.
to embrace her friend. That ceremony was "1 '11 tell you what I did. When I came
performed and thrice repeated in silence, in, I just marched straight into your uncle's
Emma's head sunk upon the shoulder of study, where he was reading a paper or
her friend, and a shiver of pent-up feeling something, as solemn as an owl, and says I,
convulsed her for an instant. 'Excuse me, Mr. Wales, but I forgot to
"You poor darling I " broke out the new- ask you yesterday for Chancy's address
comer in half~tender, half-scolding tones; abroad."'
"you promised me, only last night, that Emma looked up suddenly, and the nar-
you would be good and cheer up, and this rator paused with much gravity to note the
is the way you do it I" effect of her words.
"0 Clare! I do try, but -"            "Yes, I did; and he looked at me in the
"0 yes, I know. I knew how it would funniest way; but I smiled my sweetest, and
be. I 'm not much disappointed, only I he smiled in spite of himself, and 0 my
wish you would cry; those dry, woebegone darling!" concluded the ecstatic Clare,
eyes will keep me awake all night! Of tumbling down on her knees again, and
course I knew, dear," continued the young half smothering Emma, who was listenin~
woman, who had thoucrht it proper again to in breathless suspense, "he told me!"
repeat the process ~? embracing at this There followed an interval of silence,
juncture, after which she pulled up a low during which Miss Jennings bestowed a
chair, and, sitting down therein, pushed out great number of kisses on the cheeks of her
two dainty, long-heeled slipp~irs into absurd friend, interspersing them with low and
proximity to the glowing grate, "and I ran incoherent sounds resembling the cooing of
away as soon as ever I could. That stupid- doves.
Wiudham came in just after dinner, and I Emma at length found an opportunity to
had to freeze him off again before I could get speak: "And the address, dear?"
away; and just as I was running out for my "Oh!- care 'Hopkins' or 'Popkins,' or
things along came somebody else, and I had something; what does it matter? I 'ye asked
to hide behind a door in the back parlor him once, and will ask him a dozen times
until Lou got him into a corner, when I now, if necessary. Is n't it glorious, though?
slipped out. Don't know who it was, and And to think you did n't dare I - you poor,
don't care. How awfully cold it was in the foolish dear! We will write him a long
street! Boo!" And the feet went up still letter to-morrow. I shall come over early,
nearer the fire with a convulsive jerk. and we will scold him well, the wretch! for
Emma caught sight then of the slipper~. going away like that. Then we will make
~ "0 Clare! why did you come lout in your it up nicely at the end. Fancy Charley in
slippers? You will get a cold, and all Paris; I wonder what he does with him-
your goodness for me." selfl"
"Bother the slippers I - pretty, though, The momentous nature of this reflection
* are n L they? I am ,just trying to think caused her to pause the fraction of a second
how to scold you, but I can't conjure up all in serious thought; but she broke out im-
the severe things I want to say. I won't mediately after it ~vith a fresh inspiration.
have you going on like this, though, because "I '11 tell you what he shall do for us;
Charley has gone away for a holiday in he shall just make clever little sketches of
Europe. If it was n't that you feel so badly things and send them by every steamer.
about it, I should be glad of it for his sake. Won't it be nice? And then-why! we
It 's a sight) better for him than that horrid should find out all the newest things in
old office. I wish I - I wish we were dress that way. Mr. Huntley says 'Punch's'
both with him. I am teasing mamma ever pictures are the English fashion-plates, and
minute to go, and she says maybe we shall nobody ever drew for 'Punch' as Charley


32                        CHOISY.                                                      BENT TO THE TASK.                    33

Wales draws. Just fancy his fashion-pic-
tures taken on the spot, you know, on the
Boulevard What-you-call-it!"
Emma laughed again at the irrepressible
girl, and in some measure even shared her*
elation; indeed, the knowledge of the ad-
dress land sent a thrill to her heart. She
had not yet been able to summon the cour-
age to ask for, and Mr. Wales had neglected
to offer, it; and she found a new strength
growing in her heart as she listened to her
enthusiastic friend.
It was late in the evening, long after the
girls' exuberant fancy had spent its ecstasy,
as they sat with locked arms before the
flickering fire, when Clare sprang up with
an exclamation, and precipi a e sought
the hat and jacket. "Gracious, goodness
me! how I am staying! I have n't been a
Job's comforter, at any rate, have I? Now
you will go to bed and sleep, can't you,
darling? If you don't, I shall not, you
know." She was struggling wildly with the
tiny seal-skin, but paused and took breath
to add, "I will stay, dear, if you want me.
You could send Stephen -"
"No, it is n't necessary, you dear, good-
hearted child; but you must put on these
rubbers, and Stephen will see you across."
"My poor~ pretty slippers I they are just
ruined. There I you 'II never see your rub-
bers again, I guess. Good night, you
naughty, darling girl!"
There was a rapturous exchange of em-
braces, and Miss Clare turned to go. At
the table she stopped to pick up Huntley's
card, lying thereon.
"0, he has been here, and you did n't
see him! I wonder if-"
What the young woman wondered is lost
to history, as she failed to complete the sen-
tence, and, bouncing off, rattled down stairs
to where Stephen stood ready to escort her to
her home across the way. He got a cheery
"good night" for his pains; and as he came
in again and closed up for the night he said
to himself, "It 's a blessed thing for Miss
Emmie to have a friend like Miss Clare to
ehirk her up a bit these days."
They were in truth old friends, these two
girls so unlike and so equally lovely in
their characters. The Jenningses were a
family of the great upper world, and pos-
sessed a splendid country property upon
the river, which had immediately adjoined
that of Mrs. Howland. Early acquaintance
had led to friendship and much intim~tcy
between the families during the long sum-
mer holidays, and especially between Clare
and Emma, who were nearly of the same
age. The events of later years had served
to make their relations even more intimate.
Clare had wept her heart out at Fred How-
land's death; she could never choose clearly
between him and Charley, and had made

desperate love to both ever since the era of
short dresses; but when "Aunt Ellen," as
she had always called Mrs. lowland, was
taken, her grief was something like Emma's
own, and had revealed to the latter an un-
suspected depth of feeling.
Mrs. Jennings made a protege' of the
motherless girl from that time. She wa~
very kind and sympathetic, and, indeed,
loved Emma as a daughter; but she was,
as I have said, a woman of the grand world,
and believed implicitly in worldly curatives
for worldly ills. She was a brilliant, clever
woman, and a power in the circle in which
she moved, but, what was admirable and
perhaps rare, a power for good. The mass
of women are moulded by society, while a
few mould society to their will. Mrs. Jen-
nings had found it possible to be a star in
the social world and to fulfil her duties as
wife and mother; to "queen it," in simple
words, and remain a good woman; and few
do as much.
She carried Emma away to the sea-shore
that sad summer, and was very tender and
careful with the bruised heart, while she
drcw the line sharply where a natural sor-
row becomes a consuming melancholy, and
fought the weakness of Emma's too plastic
nature bending to earth under its weight of
tr~mble. In time, by argument and en-
treaty, she won her victory, and ushercd
Emma into her own golden realm, and the
appreciative girl found there much consola-
tion and some happiness.
Emma rallied bravely on the new hope
awakened by Chire's giddy but thoroughly
good and loving fancies, and, after the child
had gone, busied herself in her room with
more spirit than she had known for days,
piled coals on her fire, and, drawing her
writing-table near it, sat down and wrote
far into the night, wrote a letter of warm,
unquestioning affection to her truant boy.
After that she slept a deep, restful sleep; but
she was down betimes in the morning, look-
ing quite like herself, and gave the letter to
Stephen to mail with a smile that gladdened
the old man's heart. "Mail it at once,
please, and find out when it will go," she
said; and the servant, having caught the
superscription, shuffled off nimbly enough
to do her bidding. He did it faithfully too,
and it was with silent amusement that
Emma received the impetuous Clare at a
later hour, and proceeded with her to the
joint construction of that wonderful letter
of reprimand, instructions, and commissions,
smoothed down "at the end" with a great
deal of love and good wishes; her own was,
meantime, being hurried aboard the steamer,
and would be miles on its way before the
sun went down. But the occupation was a
pleasant one, and made the day a happy
contrast for Emma to those of the preced-

ing week. Clare was ecstatic; her idea
poured out in a flood upon her paper, whic]
was written and crossed, and rewrite:
diagonally, while Emma barely finished he
sheet in single lines between her fits o
laughter at the irresistible and not un
frequently preposterous inspirations of he:
friend. Then it was insisted that Emmn~
should rea(I her missive aloud, after which
and not without some difficulty, Clare rent
her own, - a happy circumstance, since ~i
led to a salutary system of corrections auc
the supplying ot~ innumerable omissions, ir
the absence of which the epistle would hav
puzzled a more adroit hand at manuscript
than Charley XVales. The affair was finally)
achieved with great e'claf, and Clare was iii
a fever of childish delight when the neal
packet was duly scaled and addressed in
Emma's clear hand ready for the post
She made a little face at the thought of the
"awfully" long time it would require to
bring response, wondered that Emma should
remember the address, which she had quite
forgot ten, and went home congratulating
herself with un~elflsh happiness on having
brought back the smiles to the poor, dear
thing's pale face. And she had done well,
the big-hearted girl, better even than she
dreamed.
When Mr. Huntley called some evenings
later, he found Miss Howland "at home,"
and was met by her with a face and manner
that filled hint with uneasy surprise. He
found no external evidence of the shock
and grief he believed she had sustained; she
spoke with regret of her cousin's absence,
but did not dwell on it, and the fine edifice
of delicate sympathy he had reared for the
occasion fell ~o the ground and left the
clever wording at an actual loss for words.
He made a brief call, and emerged into the
street oppresse(I with a sense of discomfiture.
I am sorry to add that he came afterwards
to the club and astonished Simums by making
a rude demand for "the money Wales owed
him," and surprised us all by a display of
temper over our really unexceptionable whis-
key and the club attendance. We won-
dered at the unusu~d exhibition on the part
of the impassive man, and Tommy West
gave utterance to the opinion that he was
the "wrong way all up his back," as the
door closed on him.
He took his way later to the abode and
place of business of Mr. Worthington, where,
in fact, he had been a rather frequent
visitor since the Occasion which introduced
him to the reader. That he was not in an
agreeable state of mind as he moved up the
street might have been inferred from the
rapid and nervous manner of his walk and
the savage whirl of his cane; a stray dog
sneaking inoffensively along the house-wall
came in for a blow from that weapon, and
5

an equally stray policeman Ofi the corner,
Ia who favored the gentleman with a curious
a glance, little dreamed of the latter's very
r strong inclination to serve him in the same
f way. He did not enter the parlors at
- Worthington's, or go to the dining-hall; ~but
r left a message for the master with an at-
a tenant, and proceeded up stairs to a private
sitting-room with the readiness of one famil-
I mr with the way. here he ordered a hot
punch, lighted a cigar, and, throwing himself
I into an easy-chair before the fire, brooded
gloomily.
it was some time before Worthington
entered the room, which he did at last with
a feeble attempt at his usual gracious smile;
evidently lac was not enchanted witla the
visit.
"Ah! you, is it, Dick, making yourself
comfortable as usual? Quite right, old fel-
low; always do it when you can, you know,"
he said, carelessly, coming to the fire and
planting himself before it with a glance
down at Huntley.
Thac broker neither moved nor responded,
but brooded still with his head on his breast
and his eyes on the coals. Worthington
watched him an instant longer, and then,
shrugging his shoulders, gathered a coat-tail
over each arm5 spread himself kurionsly
before the fire, and awaited eVents.
Hundey spoke finally in a desperate,
tleci~ive way: "I must have more money,
Sam."
The gambler frowned heavily,~but did not
turn. He took a cigar out of lais mouth
delicately, and, biting the end off with his
sharp, white teeth, blew it into space; this
pantomime concluded, he smoked silently.
Huntley broke out again: "That infernal
slaort venture in Old Southern is getting me
in a ('orner. Somebody must have crammed
Jenkins, or else he lied deliberately about
the stock, for it has crawled up steadily
ever since I sold it, and from what I hear
to-day it is liI~ely to be bulled five or even
ten per cent higher. I can't cover; it
would ruin me unless I could go long of the
stock to balance, and I have n't the money
to (10 it."
There was no response yet from tlae man
before the fire. Huntley looke(I up and
continued "It is a pretty sure thing, this
rise; the Druid clique are in it, I know, and
if 1 had the means I would take one or two
thousand shares to-morrow. A check for
thirty or forty thousand would do it, as money
loans free on the stock, - another good
sign. Why not make a joint operation?"
"I cama't (10 it, Huntley," answcm'ed the
other, at last, with marked impatience; "I
am in down there now a deuced sight deeper
than I wish I was, and I have to thank you
for the most of it. I have n't a spare dollar
outside of my need now, and what I kt you


34                         CHOISY.

BENT TO THE TASK.

have last week has really inconvenienced
me."
Iluntley looked up angrily. "By -!
*          Worthington, it 's too bad to try to put that
off on me. I '11 take your gains any full
night down stairs and chance it to get out
*          of my scrape on them!
"My 'gains (Iowa stairs*' are none of your
affiuii s, I)tck," responded Worthington, dtyly.
Huntley looked at him in mingled surprise
and rage; but the fine face of the gambler
was unruffled.
"Now see here!" cried the broker, pas-
sionately, "I won't stand that! I put an easy
ten thousand in your hands a week ago -"
" And have taken it nearly all out again
since. I will give you the rest to be quits,
if you will stow that business forever; it
was dirty, and I don't like it!"
Huntley waS silenced for some moments
by these words, but recovered his sangfroid
rapidly.
"This won't do, Sam," he resumed quietly;
"we can't afford to quarrel, and we ought
to know how to give and take by this time,
fdlow-countryinen in a strange land as we
are, - n'est ce
There was an imperceptible twitch in
Worthington's face at the last words, and he
*          did not meet the eye of the other, who looked
at him with soniething of an ironical smile.
" You will never lose anything by mc,
Sam; don't let that worry you. And as for
your having any conscience about that
matter of young ~Vales, it 's simply absurd.
Why! it was the biggest piece of double luck
imaginable; you got your money, and 1 got
the young brute out of amy way!"
"Is it a fact, then, that you are going to
try the game in that quarter?"
Huntley's heart revolted despite himself
at the quick question; but lie showed no
sign, and met Worthington's eye steadily as
he answered, "And why not?"
"XVhy not, to be sure; only, I should
think-"
" Well, what should you think ?"
The words were almost fiercely put, and
the gambler laughed with well-assumed
gaycty.
"By Jove! I don't know what to think
sometmmcs~ Dick; it 's a ruin world to live
in! But I must go down. I am really not
in funds, but I can let you have some
securities."
"What are they?"
"The old lot, five-twenties."
Huntley made a grimace. "0, the regis-
I
tered ones?"
"Yes, the same," laughed Worthington.
"Look out where you burrow on them.
I would n't recommend old Wales; he
can't be very fond of my name on paper!
I '11 send them down in the morning, - ta,
ta!" And he went out.

Jiuntley remained some time in his luxu-
rious solitude, silent and tl~ioughtfuI.
"I wonder what mad~ the man show
ugly," he said to himself. "He ought to
know better, and, by-, he shall be aught,
if he tries it a~nia!" He aroused himself
at this juncture, looked at his watch, and,
whistling at its disclosure, betoek himself
homeward.
The bonds came down promptly in the
morning, and the amount raised on them
enabled iluntley not only to weather the
shoals, but to follow as well his scheme ol
hedgingo' whereby he came our of tl~e
affair with a handsome balance. It was
with n6 little satisfaction that lie returijed
the securities to their owner a week later,
with his compliments and regrets. " What
a pity you would not come in on the Old
Southern!" he wrote; "a clear use of five
per cent in two days." On reading which
Mr. Worthington shrugged his shoulders,
as was his wont, and remarked that "the
fellow always fell on his feet."
The broker was therefore in a genial hu-
mor when, some evenings after his visit at
the Wales mansion, he called across the
way on his charming acquaintance, Miss
Clare Jennings. That young lady was in
quite a flutter over her visitor, for the
handsome Englishman had an ardent ad-
mirer in Miss Clare, and she had on divers
occasions deployed all her forces against
him with an exasperating uncertainty of
success. She received him, accordingly,
with much grace, but seoldeti him coquet-
tishly for his neglect in calling. Iluntley
thought what a splendid creature she was,
looking at her as she sat before him toying
with a shadowy bit of handkeu chief, and
casting arch glances at him. How much
easier to be had than that other one! A
card t&amp; play, perhaps, if the other failed.
"I owe you infinite apology, Miss Jen-
nings; it is we who suffer, however, com-
pelled as we are to deny ourselves the
pleasure of your society. You know how
it is-"
"0 yes, I know; please don't vex my
ears with the thrice-told tale. 'Business,'
of course, always 'business'!"
Quite right; stupid, is n't it, that no
one invents a new plea? I have tried. It
has cost me nights of sleepless study, it has
indeed, Miss Jennings, in the vain hope of
winning the gratitude of my f~'llow-sinners."
"And of course you did not succeed. I
shall suspect you, however, hereafter. It is
horrid, though, that you men ~annot con-
tent yourselves with all day in Wall Street,
but must have a 'Board, or whatever you
call it, at the hotels in the evening. I
would turn you all out in the street, if I
were the Fifth Avenue Hotel !"
Huntley laughed gayly at the idea. "So

you would, and be a benefactress to us all
You see, if some go, all must follow; ani
so we of the mass are dragged in by th(
incorrigibles."
"Yes, I see; you all distrust each other
and fear to lose an advantage by being ab
sent. You poor souls!"
The reasoning of Miss Clare was irresisti
ble. Huntley laughed and surrendered.
"1 cry you mercy, Miss Jennings, as one
of the convicted. Behold me at your feet,
And the gay world? Following its course,
I presume, as merrily as marriage-bells. I
have bv'en such a recluse for a month past,
that I feel like a monument of antiquity."
"0, the same old tliinol" said the young
woman, with a pensive sigh. "I ani quite
worn out with it, I assure you, and every
fresh card of invitation gives me a shudder.
it is n't satisfying, Mr. Hunt'ey."
She had seen two winters in society,
poor thing! Mr. Huntley looked comically
grave. "No more it is, Miss Jennings," -
he was not quite sure of her meaning, but
he was immensely sympathetic,-" no more
it is; the more we see of it, the less satis-
faction it affords us. It is almost sad some-
tinies. is it not? 'If this be all, and naught
beyond!' Ah, well! we must go on with
the world, of course; but as for me, I have
no heart to go about since our Charley ran
away so unceremoniously."
Was a't it a shame? I was so surprised
 and grieved! And to think lie was ill all
that time and no one knew it. Of course,
he would n't speak of it."
"I had no suspicion of it; indeed, I can
scarcely believe it now; but doctors know
best, and must be obeyed. He must be
sadly2 missed over the way."
"You can't think how much. That poor,
dear Em! She was inconsolable, and just
as miserable as she could be."
"I can well imagine it." He spoke with
sweet sadness, and Miss Clare darted a
soft glance at him.
"Ah, Mr. Huntley, it was beautiful, that
attachment!"
The gentleman moved nervously, but
oaked volumes of sympathy.
"The poor thing was so wretched," con-
tinned Clare, "that I was heartbroken about
her."
"But I found her quite cheerful, and
~. evidently much consoled, when I called on
4~ Wednesday," said Hantley, with an expec-
tant heart. "So much so, that I confess I
was surprised."
Clare looked at him triumphantly. "That
was ate, Mr. Huntley. I did that."
"1 can understand what measureless com-
~ fort she would gather from your sweet sym-
- pathy, Miss Jennings."
~    "Ah, yes; but you don't know how I
revived her spirits, and by such a simple

thing. I can't conceive what made Char.
I ley act so strangely about o'oing; why, do
you know, he never saw cEmn before lie
went, or even let her know where he , was
going !
She wrinkled her pretty brow a motnent
over the problem, and iluntley said, "No
- doubt the poor boy was awfully cut up. I
inferred as much from his farewell note to
me. I was unluckily out of town when lie
* left."
"How astonished you must have been!"
" I was, indeed. - more than astonished.
iBut you have not told me by what magical
process you consoled Miss Howland."
* "0, just the simplest thing! She did n't
even know Charley's address, and had not
the courage to ask Mr. Wales for it, and
she was breaking her heart about it. So I
just marched into his sanctum, and de-
manded it on the spot."
And got it, of course," cried her listener,
with well-assumed admiration. He was
gnawing his lip the while, and cursing this
new chance. "Who could refuse you, if
you(cam9 thus?"
course I got it; and we wrote such
a nice long letter to the dear fellow Em
became positively happy over it, and has
been so ever since; though I suppose it
will hr an age before an answer can come."
"It is vexatious, is n't it?
It was vexatious, very vexatious, to him;
and after the t&amp;e-~e-t&amp;e had dragged through
another half-hour, in which he lost much
ground in the good graces of Miss Chare by
his excessive dulness, he took his depart-
ure in great annoyance, and was even less
amiable at the club afterwards than he had
been on a previous evening. But the man
had ere this fully measured and accepted
his task. He made a secret no longer, to
the nightly guest in the mirror, of the pas-
sion that was growing in his heart, roused
by the opposition of circumstance and
nourished now by ever-present dreams. He
gave himself over to it, heart and soul, and
shaped his course to the fierce resolution of
winning by fair means or foul. Plots and
counterplots circled in his brain, keeping
hini for days in a mad whirl of passionate
thoughts, and almost unfitting hini for his
business. To these there succeeded the
clear outlines of well-defined schemes rioid
lines of conduct to be followed, and ~'he
moves of the game to be stu(lied and sure.
The creature who had been a wild and
reckless adventurer for the better half of
his life, governed by the caprice of the
hour, tossed by his passions, and led by
chance, became, with this last touch of na-
ture, the master of himself, the instrument
of a sentiment stronger than himself. Would
he win the game, this clever, undaunted
player, schooled of the world, - this bold,


CHOISY.                                                      ASHORE ON ZEA~A.

strong, far-sighted, silent genius of self,
without conscience, without principle, and
without fear?
A hundred to one against the field I
Weeks and months went by, and men
saw a marked change in the broker. In
the street they called it imprQvemeflt and
an improvement was certainly visible in
his affairs there, as his bankers could tes-
tify. At the club it was said, inelegantly,
that the man was "soured"; but as he
came more and more rarely and stayed
briefly, it was a short-lived topic. Proba-
bly the elegant Worthington was more per-
plexed by the change than any other ob-
server; it began by interesting, and ended
by alarming him.
"1 can't think what is on with the man,"
said that worthy to himself, ~ifter a settle-
ment of accounts in which H~ntley cleared
off his entire obligation to the gambler;
"evidently training for something, and
wants to shake his old friends." And the
gentleman, whose soliloquies were largely
tinctured with sporting terms, looked trou-
bled. He went so far as to send certain
speculative orders to be executed by hunt-
ley &amp; Co.; and though the broker smiled
wickedly at the messenger, he did not re-
fuse to accept his new customer.
"Nervous, is Sammy 1" said he to him-
self.
"Glad he took 'em," thought Worthing-
ton.
Huntley called regularly, hut not with
marked frequency, at the house on the ave-
nue, lie displayed rather less of his for-
mer volatile brilliance in conversation, and
Miss Ciare, who happened in occasionally
during his calls, thought he was becoming
decidedly stupid and blas6; but Emma
found his quiet and wonderfully sympathetic
manner very agreeable. He moved cau-
tiously and by inches, but he worked well,
and made progress; for, from being kind to
him for her cousin's sake, who had asked it
in his last lines to her, Emma came in time
to take a growing pleasure in the broker's
society for itself; and in tie studied atti-
tudehe assumed toward her there was a
rare attraction she could not but leel, that
no woman could fail to feel, who sees before
her a man of superior years, of a rich and
checkered experience, and an extensive
knowledge of the world that speaks in
trifles but is constantly discerned, - a man
we call "accomplished" and believe to he
wise; whom we admire and wonder at, and
who flatters us insensibly but deeply by
a subtle, studied deference. Desdemona
would always love her heroic wonder, Mi-
randa her beautiful stranger from the un-
known world; and though the heart of Em-
ma Howland was guarded with a love too
strong to be overcome, she was not proof

against the strong though unsuspected in-
fluence of this skilled reader of hearts. in
her he had no common character to deal
with. lie had learned that quickly, and,
fortified in the knowledge, his advance s
were made with all the skill and caution of
a master tactician.
Meantime letters had come in tedious
course from Chancy. He had received
that written by Emma and the famous joint
production we have described, which were
forwarded to him in London from Paris.
He wrote briefly but cheerfully. He was
well, and gathering rare enjoyment in his
new atmosphere. When he should be set-
tled at Paris, the orders of the ladies would
be attended to, but he had found London
so attractive that he could set no time for
his departure. He wrote a half-tender
apology to Emma for the manner of his
leaving: lie was so miserable that he was
scarcely conscious at that time what he did;
"would she forgive him, and believe him
always her loving and affectionate Char-
ley?" And Emma kissed the sheet, and
slept with it under her pillov. She wrote
him again, tenderly and tearfully, and
waited long for a reply.
CHAPTER VI.
ASHORE ON ~EA~A.
THE June roses were blooming in the
parterres of the imperial Terrace when
Charley Wales arrived at last at Paris. lie
had lingered long in London, making some
pleasant acquaintance, and held by the
magic attraction of the grim monster moth-
er of cities, which, for his untravelled fancy,
possessed a fascinating and romantic charm.
His intermediate bit of sea life prepared
him admirably for the enjoyment of new
scenes, - those twelve wild and exciting
days on the winter Atlantic, with just
enough congenial society l~elow dccl s to dis-
sipate the gloomy thoughts that might have
come in with the star'iess nights and the
grand old waste that warred with the winds
incessantly before his eyes. It was a pe-
riod of regeneration for the young man,
smoothing down the angry and troubled
feelings which had marked the first hours
of his expatriation, and leaving him with a
sober consciousness of. his position; some-
what saddened at times by the error that
had marred his life, but more and more re-
solved to turn the lesson to good account,
to reap some pleasure from his present, and
qualify himself for a better future. There
was a sort of mental arrest in. this abrupt
change from his free and careless existence
ashore, with the warm relief of a luxurious
home and countless friends, to the solemn

4
4
4
I,
)

loneliness of the ocean and the singularly Gray. Nor was it less stirring to puzzle
inspiring atmosphere which envelopes all over their own written text in the treasure-
who follow their precarious course thereon. house of the Museum; crabbed, angular
For the first time a realizing sense of his lines which tell us something of how they
manhood thrilled him, and his past life labored to give their deathless inspirations
seemed to roll away like a pleasant but idle to the world. The kings were the better
dream. Most young men of easy lives cx- writers, poor souls! Perhaps there be stools
perience some such awakening moment, I for book-keepers where they are gone I
fancy, when the old paths lose all at once The young enthusiast knew no rest un-
their charm, and are abandoned with re- til he had fairly exhausted the mine and
lief, if not in disgust. His earlier days in become something of an antiquarian him-
England - beginning with one of familiar self. Abbey and Tower and Minster were
snow-storm, through which he dashed down severalty and repeatedly gone over, and it
from Liverpool to London at forty miles an was not until he had accomplished the
hour, stopping for cakes and ale at a no less whole circle, from the very crypt where
sio~nificant place than Tom Brown's Rugby, Kit Wren sleeps in the vault of his making
and running into the vast overlapping wil- to the outermost wall of Hampton, that
derness of the great city just as the mu- Charley thought of rising his letters and
lions of lights were beginning to twinkle in coming back to the men and things of his
the brown December mist - were one con- century. it was a sad descent from the
tinned dream made up of a thousand book- classic Briton to the cockney; but the lat~-
memories, and fascinating beyond expres- ter as a genus deserved a study, so our
sion. He exulted in the recognition through hero began a new round in the old paths,
all the evening gloom of Fleet Street, and the and feasted Bacchus over the reveren'l dust.
worn arch of Temple Bar, under which he He achieved his potato heroically at Evans's,
drove to his hotel in the city; and he boasts, and allowed himself to be tossed in the hot
to this day, of having strolled the length tempest of the Aihambra afterwards. lie
of Cheapdde, gazed down from London ate a fish dinner at Billingsgate, and fought
Bridge upon the inky Thames below, and desperately for cheese wit/i his pie at Simp-
up at ghostly St. Paul's from the church- son's. He went down and dined at the
yard, before he slept that wonderful first Garter too, at Iticlimond, with much enjoy-
night in London. And this half-boyish en- meat, and at great expense; and had point-
thusiasm, which covered no small measure ed out to him young Fitznoodle, a live lord
of solid appreciation, made the long after- of tender years, who was being nourished
task of "doing the city one of constant by green turtle and champagne, under the
delight. The American feels in the Eng- amiable protection of Miss Debonnaire of
lish metropolis a kind of consanguinity Mrs. John Wood's ballet. He did the Der-
with men and things superior to all preju- by, too, and Cremorne after it. He even
dice. lie feels at home, and, indeed, he played pound-pool in Regent Street, and
is at home with his forgotten ancestors. loo!~ed in at "Barnes's" in the Haymarket,
There is not a structure from the rookeries and wondered somewhat, after it all, that
of Seven Dials to the broad front of Som- ages had done so little to eradicate the vein
erset House in which we do not feel some of intense, coarse brutishness which has
peculiar interest; not a thoroughfare or a come down in the British character from
byway, from Oxford Street to the Tower, the man in the goatskin.
whose name fails to strike some answering  He remained long enough in England to
chord of memory. We are conscious of a fitnesss the gathering of the fisshionables to
sentiment of proprietorship which enables their "season" parade in the Ladies' Mile,
us to walk loftily in the. antique streets, and and to be jostled by them in the Sunday
disposes us to resent the rather cold glances "Zoo"; long enough to catch the lovely
of our old.country cousins who mark usfor picture from Richmond Tei~race in its
"foreio'ners."       .                summer dress, and to enjoy the still lovelier
Ch~rley read off the pages of the great panorama of the Vale of Kent from the
historic book with eager and appreciative boot of the last of English stage-coaches.
eyes, beginning with the antique black-letter The jaunt to Tuabnidge closed the book for
of the remote past, and plodding through the him, and then he turned his tardy feet
whole pretty thoroughly, down to the mod- towards France.
em  character of his time. it seemed to  Said a pleasant English friend to him as
him like a pause of time, that breathless they shook hands in parting at Ludgate Hill,
moment when he stood in the dim shadows "Au revoir; but I speak it in the fear that
of Westminster, with the sealed dust of you will soon forget our smoky old London
kings below his feet, and the dazzling con- in the Beautiful City I"
stellation of names of the Immortal Corner  "Never!" cried Charley.
before his eyes, - Chaucer and Spenser,  Nor did he; nor could any one lose
Milton and Dryden, Shakespeare, Addison, entirely the impression which that grim,

36

37

it'

CHOISY.


38                         dilOlsy.                                                          ASHORE ON A~A.                       39

dingy, unchanging, and untidy mother of so
many millions makes upon the stranger's
heart. But in the warm, golden glow of'
Paris the picture grows dim in a little thne.
Chancy was fortunate to have lingered and
enjoyed the parent city before he turned to
its glittering neighbor across the strait.
You will db ~vell, reader mine, to follow his
eXamnl)le.
And so in the early days of June Chancy
found himself in Paris. It was the Paris of
the Second Empire, of Baron Haussmann
and Louis Napoleon; the peerless, laughing,
sinning, glorious Pails of the nineteenth
century, in its sixth decadee. Even then
the Saii(IS were running fast in her hour of
triumph, ann through all the wild revel and
tumult of lien giddy life there fell at intervals
a shadow of the future and a cry from some
solitary, watchful soul. But she heard or
heeded not; it was a feast where the lights
shone so l)nightly, and hearts heat so ~ias-
smonately, that the words upon the wall were
idle and unnoticed things. Who shall write
the story of those (lays? who paint the
scene where wealth was melted into impossi-
bk sImlemlor, and luxury carried to nameless
vice; where the man of the Faubourg vied
with the prodigality of the Emperor; where
woman, like the genius of fhte, ruled and
ruine(l, and where she might stand to-day
in the tatters of her scarlet robe and cry
with l)elilah, " Behold my work
Ilium/hit! and we weary of the unchanged
story of her succeeding tistenhood ; let the
man who kne~v Paris in her golden days
fold the rare memory in his heart, and sing
of it like Homcr when he is blind with age.
There i~ an inevitable first4heling of
isolation in a new land where one hears no
longer his own tongue, and finds himself
surrounnlcil by the unwanted physiognoumics
of another rae ; it makes some acquaintance
a covete(l boon, and it led Charley without
delay to l)m'eselit his credentials to Monsieur
Somers at the latter's apartments in the
Rue Pasquier. Mr. Somers received him
with something like a huzza. lie was a
large, almost too large, but very handsome
man ; an undoubted Engli4mman, with the
skin and color of a woman, straight, full
nose, an(l laughing light blue eyes, with
heavy whiskers of the very lightest brown,
and a sweeping moustache that effectually
hid his mouth. A man of undefinable age,
he might be thirty-five and possibly ten
years older; puzzling, but attractive at first
glance. Treasuring the most cordial feeling
for Iluntley, Chanley accepted the blond
giant at sight with a certain enthusiasm.
Had he known Iluntley better, he might
have formed another estimate of Iluntley's
" 01(1 friend."
The gentleman at that extraordinary hour
of one o'clock was just taking his coffee in

ii
11
I

his handsomely furnished parlor, and met
our hero with a laughing apology for his
nlressing-gown and slippers, lie looked
like a colossal man-Venus in his scanty
robes.
"My dear Mr. Wales! I am delighted.
Eajia! Why, I am wasted whh hope de-
fi rved! Voyoas; it must be a year since
Huntley wrote inc of your coming!"
Scarcely," said Charley, laughing at the
irresistible bonhomie of the other, " nbt
more than five months, I should think. I
sailed in December."
"AIm, yes, so you did. I remember now
planning something for you for the .Ioer de
Pea. But you rewannl suspense. I am more
than (leliglitetl ! Your first visit to Paris, is
it not? and when did you arrive ? "
"It is my first. I caine over yesterdayy"
" Is it l)ossible? how kimid ot you to look
me up so promptly ! Will you l)tir(lou me
if I finish my coffee ? Try omme of those
cigars ; we call them fair here, but I always
talk small about my cigars to you Anicrican
gentlemen, you are such judges. I ama
rather late this morning, though I am not
an early bird at any time. Our big race,
the Grand Thix, you know, is run to-morrow,
an(l it has made so much late woik at the
club that one never gets to his bed. Only
just arrived, eb ! but you (lOii't mean to tell
me you haYe been all this time in Eng-
land
0 yes, and found it very delightful."
Somers raised his hands in comic won(ler.
Did you really 'I As a born Englislunan
I am free to say I (10 not, and never did. I
seldom go over. How did you find the
Channel ?"
"It did not strike me as being so very
bad, hut I noticed that nearly every one was
ill."
"Of course they were, and so you would
have been if you were anything but an
American. It 's unaccountable how little
you make of ocean voyages. Me, - why I die
a hundred (leaths between Calais and Dover!
I begin to fail ill at Aniiens fioma slicer
anticipation. I have n't asked you yet how
you left Dick, the dear old felto~v lie is
always telling us he is comniimg out, but he
never comes."
I did not see him, unfortunately, when
I sailed," sai(l Chiarley, with a shade of
embarrassment, while his host watched him
over the edge of his cofihe-cup, and 1)10-
pounded unto lmimself~ the mental inquiry,
What is the young fish niade of?" "lIe
was out of town; but a few days before lie
was in his usual good health, and he inca-
tions no chaiige in his letters."
"lie is getting on in the world, too, so
far as I can learn. I always thought he
would; but then yours is such a country to
get on in. I was near adding an important

I
a
a
A,
a
4
SI
Sf
a
SI
a
SI
a

member to its population in my own person Mr. Somers paused to toss his ashes
once. I was, indeed; but as I could not, Idain tily over his shoulder, while Charley,
sent Dick as the next best thing, and joined rather nonplussed at this exhibition of char-
the order which neither weaves nor spins." acter, did not know what to say, and so
"I knew you were old friends," said said nothing. Somers resumed: "Dick
Charley; "at least, I inferred as much from writes me that you have come over for an
his letters -" indefinite holiday, and are likely to spend
Simply that, and nothing more," broke some time at Paris."
in Somers, laughing. "Of course, lie does n't "At Paris and on the Continent gener-
go into those days now he is a rising man ally."
in - what do you call it ? - your Lombard ~' Of course; the Continent is only a sub-
Street; but we have had some ups and urb to Paris. Now I am going to make a
downs together, Dick and I, not worth the little speech, Mr. Wales. It has not struck
telling, 3.011 kmiow, but we all make stock of you, perhaps, that my parliamentary abili-
our biographies; it 's a human weakness. ties are uncommon, -a family peculiarity,
So he never told you anything of our 01(1 by the way; I. have a big brother who talks
connection? Teal maieux!" added the speak- to the Commons. Take another cigar, and
en to himself, with his nose buried in his cup. bear with me in my weakness. We ~nust
"I understood simply that you were, asi have a general question settled. What I
have said, an old-time friend," replied wish to ascertain is how you intend or de-
Charley, who, in fact, could not at that sire to 'take your Paris,' as your country-
moment remember that Huntley had ever men are fond of saying. They take noth-
mentioned Somers to him, and was struck ing ' plain,' do they, at home?"
for The first time by the fact; "and lie begged "0 yes, frequently," replied Chancy,
me particularly to see you. I was only too l~ughing. "But I don't quite gather your
glad to avail myself of the privilege of meaning as yet-"
knowing you, and I ought to apologize for "Naturally not; listen. Your youn~
not.having sent you a line explaining my countrymen who come out here - and ~
delay in London. I thought of it, but I have met a great many of them, I may add,
confess I am not cit fail in these things; and found them deuced fine fellows, as a
you must pardon my shortcomings -" I rule - have a fashion of 'doing' the city
"Not to be spoken of, Mn. Wales," said I peculiar to themselves, and whieh has got
Summer~, ringing in the gartYmn and sending to be an established routine, into which
away the coflhe service; "I am happy to they all seem to fall, as simple as it is ab-
have had you comae as you did, and only surd. I could put it all down in so many
sorry to have received you in this stupid short paragraphs on a card, and it would
fashion. We will mend all that, however,' you as an infallible guide to Paris for
and you may discover that I am not so late, mnenscans, which is religiously heeded
after all, as we reckon time in Paris. And by them, with scarcely an exception. Mr.
now I am going to keep you company in a Thompson, for example, arrives from New
cigar, and cultivate your acquaintance," York, and, obedient to recommendations,
011(1 suiting his action to the words, the goes to M3uniee's, Chatham, Louvre, or
elegint giant blew a premonitory cloud, any of a dozen hotels, where he has been
while lie took up his position like another assured that he will 'find other Americans,'
figure of Rhodes, planting himself, from and where he will pay pnces that a French-
winter habit, before the closed fireplace, man hears of ii  mute wonder. I 'II wager
"Let mime say first, Mr. Somimers, that I you have done the same."
should be sorry to become a nuisance or in "I am at the Chatham, certainly," said
any way -"                             Chanley, smiling.
"And let me begin, my dear fellow, by "Just so; and you find those 'other
saying that you are not in the least likely Americans,' who entertain you at dinner
to do so, and that I esteem the privilege of with spirited accounts, in a high key, of vis-
beng of service to you a very happy one. its to Cluny or the Gobehins, interlard their
The fact is, I am one of those siip~)ositi- conversation with excruciating French, and
tiously fortunate people called 'men of leis- surround you with a sort of pseudo home
ure,' - a character not only enjoyable but atmosphere, which wiU soon become simply
respectable in Paris, Mr. Wales, odious or unbearable. Excuse my freedom; I am a
disreputable as it may be in other lands, pretty old hand on the Continent, and tol-
Iluntley might have explained the fact, amid erably familiar with the different varieties of
saved you any scruples about commanding the genus Tourist. There is only one speci-
my services; and he might have added men more trying to one 's nerves than your
that it would be a peculiar gratification to raw American, and that is our own ineffa-
me to put you night in Paris life. I am a ble cockney. You will accept the anende?"
pretty thorough Parisian; par consequent, I "lt was not necessary. I can ~ee the jus-
am an egotist, but I am also an artist." tice of all you say."


40                      CHOISY.                                                    ASHORE ON 3~U~A.

ii
dj~I

"Well, to return to 'Mr. Thompson.'
He stops, like you, at the Chatham, and
regulates his movements by the Guide.
He breakfasts, like a barbarian, when Paris
is taking its coffee; and when Paris is
breakfasting Ic has found some American
so&amp;ety and proceeded to indulge in the
exotic practice of whiskey cocktails at mid-
day. To arrive at this he posts recrularly
to the Grand Hotel each day, where Tie will
not fail to find a morning coterie of his
compatriots, with continual additions; this
leads to new acquaintances, and the cele-
bration of the same, after your genial cus-
tom, by the consumption of fiery compounds
unknown to Europeans. It has often seemed
to me that Mr. Thompson's recollections of
Paris will relate mainly to those wlhom he
met there; for he keeps this thing up fre-
quently all day, rotating from the Grand
Hotel to Thorpe's in an endless succession
of new acquaintances and cocktails. To
dine, he goes with a party of confr~res to
the most celebrated establishment on his
list as yet unvisited. Of these places he
makes it a point to try a new one every
day, which prevents his becoming known
and properly served; so he ends by being
dissatisfied with all of them. Then he
goes to Mabille, Musard, Closerie, or one
of a hundred places, and gets home at any
hour, with a plundered purse, and a green
sickness from a hideous mixture of spirits
and wine. A month of this wears him out.
He believes he has 'done Paris,' thinks it
rather slow, and leaves it with a disagree-
able consciousness that it has been rather
expensive and not very satisfactory.
":Now, I am not disposed to quarrel with
your national habits, Mr * Wales, and what
.1 have said about the whiskey-drinking is
simply to illustrate. The mistake these
gentlemen make is the natural one of cling-
ing to home ideas and endeavoring to im-
port them to a foreign soil, and, by turning
some corner of Paris into New York, to live
in a sort of transplanted atmosphere of
their own. What should you think of a
Frenchman who would go to your city,
hunt out a little circle of his countrymen,
~an(I after livincr three months on red wine
'and the traditional croi2te au fcu, return to
Paris and claim to have solved the problem
of lifu in the American metropolis, write
feujilelons for Figaro, even, on the peculiar-
ities he had observed ckez Brother Jona-
than? The fact is, you Americans have
nearly ruined Paris or yourselves, and in
some respects for every one else. Your
money demoralizes the whole contributive
world of the capital, and has actually revo-
lutionized the character of its two most im-
portant features for the visitor, namely, ho-
tels and cafe'.~. Poor Will Thackeray him-
self, walking his old beat in the street with

ii
U
ii

the rhymeless name, would weep to find
that the famous 'Bouillabaisse,' which the
cook of those days made well, had given
place 'to American Fish-Balls' and 'Buck-
wheat Cakes,' which, though not a judge, I
will venture to bet he makes execrably. It
is positively melancholy, Mr. Wales; the
very cuisine, the blossom of French civiliza-
tion, has been prostituted to your irregular
tastes; and if I want a choice p/at, such as
we could get in fifty places in old times, I
am at a loss now where to go for it."
He paused with a sigh of regret, and
blew a meditative column of smoke at the
opposite wall.
"Pardon my scold," he said, resuming.
"It 's about tIme only hobby I mount, this
growing anarchy in the kitchen which is
spoiling all our dinners. All I have said,
as you may imagine, is simply in preface to
the question, whether, being of the school
Thompson, you expected to fellow the
Thompronian method. 1 may as well tell
you, frankly, that his ways are not mine, nor
do I think you would find any profit or sat-
isfaction in them."
Charley was rather puzzled. "To tell
you the truth, Mr. Somers, I had not calcu-
lated on putting myself under -that is,
making myself a burden on your hands -"
"Thcre it is again I YGu (haps from
the other side do everything by 'calcula-
tion.' It is n't French; none of those so-
ber abstractions are French. Let us com-
promise, Mr. Wales. Give me a month to
develop my scheme, and then, if it isn't
agreeable, we will dissolve."
Charley did not clearly understand what
he was subscribing to, but the genial Bo-
hemian was quite irresistible.
"I put myself entirely in your bands, Mr.
Somers; but I must also confess that I
should enjoy meeting my fellow-Americans,
even," he added, laughing, "'Mr. Thomp-
son,' for want of a better."
"Of course, of course; and I did n't mean
to convey the idea that 'TLompson' is a
bad fellow to meet, not at all; only we
will not agree to join him in his peculiar
crusade against Paris n masse. Three
o'clock! By Jove I I am late I By the
way, how is your French?"
"Not very good, I fear," replied Charley.
"Bookish, eb '/" echoed Somers, who
had dived into his dressing-room, and was
rapidly completing a street toilet. "We 'II
soon arrange that."
lie came out directly, with hat and cane,
and fitted on the first before the glass; after
which he turned to Charley with the pecu-
liarly winning smile which had quite cap-
tured our hero.
"I understand, then, tint you commit
yourself to my experienced and fatherly
charge'?" he said, gayly.

4
4

4
S
A

41

"Since you will take the trouble, Mr. al cqf6 pour quatre in the morning; is it
Somers," answered Charl~y, rising, and tak- not so, Madame?"
ing up his hat. "But I beg you will not Madame courtesies and darted a reproving
let me interfere with - with your busi- glance smothered in a smile at the speaker,
ness -"                                - a French substitute for a blush. "The
Somers cut him short with a ringing gentlemen will have the best attendance
laugh. He was lighting a fresh cigar, and in the world."
sicrued to Chancy to do the same.        "Of course we shall; Madame's charm-
~' Another word not in our vocabulary. ing face is an unimpeachable guaranty.
~Te have affaires, Mr. Wales, but never any Was it not Madame's superb little dog we
'business.' We have one to dispose of saw below? To be sure, and such a beauty!
now, preliminary to our happy incorpora- One hundred and fifty by the month. I
tion as a society of two for mutual enter- think Madame said, c'esl ~. That 's the
tainment and protection, which, if you are whole expense," he continued to Charley,
agreeable, we will dispatch at once." "with a trifle Ibr~service; coffee extra, aiid
"1 am with you," cried Chancy, already that is all you require where you sleep."
enthusiastic in his admiration for the gay Charley "saw it" rather dimly, but was
Englishman.                            amused; and as he made no objections, the
"A/Ions! and I suggest we drop the bargain was closed. rPhr~y stoppr~d a mo-
ceremonies. People call me 'Ned'; and ment at Somers's quarters, where lie gave
you -?"                                or~1ers to his gar~on to pack and transfer his
"People call me 'Charley,'" answered effects, and afterwards at the Clmathiam,
our hero, following the other down the where Charley made his arrangements for
stairway. Somers stopped half-way to the change; and then Somers selected one
make another suggestion. "And suppose of a long line of ,namer cabs with the eye of
we use the French now as much as we can." experience, woke the ever-sleeping Jehu
Then they passed out, and went around by thereof, amid bade Chavley get in, while he
the Madeleine into the Boulevard Male- gave the coachee some instructions.
sherbes. Somers paused before a row of "There!" said Somers, taking his place
splendid new houses, and, after consulting by Charley, as they drove away over the
numbers, entered one of them, and under asphalt of the Boulevards towards the east,
the guidance of' the concierge proceeded to "1 know what your tourist instinct craves,
a suite of large and rather luxuriously fur- and I am going to be your ~'(dCt de place for
wished rooms in the entresol. So~m~ers in- this afternoon, and give you an instantane-
spected them with a critical eye, and at the ous view, as the photographers call it, of
conclusion of the ceremony turned to the (livers exteriors. You can go over the
wondering Charley. work at your leisure afterwards, in which
"What do you think of tIme apartments? entertaining proceeding I won't agree to
Not bad, are they ?" join you. Parisians never ~o to see their
"They are princely," responded our hero, own 'lions,' you know. It 's just the same ma
who was "all at sea"; "who lives in London; Fleet Street never goes to St.
them?"                                 Paul's, and your true West-Ender will
"We do, or may if we choose. We are swear he never saw the Tower. It 's safe
lm'ky to get them. I heard of them the to say that the majority of these fellows who
other day, and said to myself, 'Now where is lounge on the Boulevard three hundred
that long-coming young man?' And I was (lays in the year have never set foot in the
awfully afraid they would be snapped up' Salon Carr~. That 's the Grand Hotel,
before you got along. There is nothing to you know it, of course; and the Opera, an
1)0 had where I am, and, moreover, the house ('flormous, ornamented guitar-box, which
has ceased to be l)leasant, having received a pleases nobody, and has ruined the Rue de
recent addition' on my floor in the person of Ia Paix. . Caf6 Americain, you observe, -
a German h)rofessor who has nightly trans- 'Peter's' we call it, - sacred to the Amen-
ports of imnprovbation on the piano, fit to can eagle. You will find unequalled mag-
shatter your brain. If they suit you, we '11 niflcence there, 'mixed drinks,' and every-
take tlieui."                         thing but good cooking. Peter is a Swiss;
"Of course; but I don't quite under- I knew him years ago when he broiled his
stand-"                                own filers in a little place down by the
"You will, though; the location is the river. Afterwards lie established himself
best in Paris, the figures are reasonable, and in the Passage des Princes, - we pass it di-
I am quite sure," continued the speaker, reetly, - and the opera balls made him.
turning with a smile to the rosy, white- Latterly your countrymen made a specialty
capped ('on(ierge and speaking in French, of him; he put 'Bourbon Whiskey' and
"that Madanme is as kind as she is beauti- 'Sherry Cobblers~ in gilt on his windows,
ful, and will do everything to make us good and reaped a fortune that has enabled him
and happy young men, even to an occasion- to set up here on a scale of splendor un-
6

40

CHOISY.


42  ClOIY.                          SHOE O  EEA.43

4
II
ii
4
if
if
PH
b

equalled in Paris or, probably, in the work
The unfinished corner ailjoining ~vil1 b
our new Vaudeville; the old one, wher
.F'echter maddened the women of Paris i
Arinand,' is down by the Bourse. Fa
inous street that, - Cliauss~e d'Antin, -
but wonderfully changed since I knew it
Up the hill is Clichy, with Batignolles am
the un(liscovered countries beyond. Cal
Helder, over there, used to be the best plac4
in Paris fbr a breakfii~t; but the influx o
demi-inonde ruins them all. Once the inas
at the pot knows his sn/mi is going into
female maw, lie forswears all effort auc
sends up anything; the el)iturean sense ha
been denied to woman, and he knows it
You shall see the Helder an(1 Peter's at tw(
in the morning. Here are the others, - thin
Riche; Maison Dor~e, where the old Dub
of hamilton broke his neck on the stairs
the Anglais, Grand Balcon, and a host o
smaller ones, good, bad, and indifThrent
~Ihe Riebe is the best, perhaps; but th
fine eaters do not come to the Boulevards
handsome shops, are they not? J~ess splen
did but more uniform than yours in ' Broad
way,' - eli ? I have been thus informed,
The Passages are pretty; I'etcr's is in
there, the old place. Down to the Bourse
by that street; a fine shell that nobody
ever sees. These are the arches St. Denis
and St. Martin ; look like resuscitated giants
of antiquity who have lost their way and
stari(l wondering at this rainbow crowd,
don't they ? Getting out of the world now;
you would never come up here, you know,
except to the Swiss transit, or afte~dark to
the theatres. 'That 's the Cirque ~poleon,
Where you will see ten thousand bourgeois
go into convulsions nightly over an Amen-
can clown, and sweeten the earth with cut
sugar for the trained poodles. Here is tIme
July co1umnn, - the forefinger of Revolution,
discreetly remote from the Tuileries. Belle-
ville and Villette lie about here, com-
fortably hedged in by these fine masses of
new buildings. Look like palaces, do they
not? They are only barracks. Turn
down here, and you need a guide-book, -
hotel de VilIe, the Sainte Chapelle, Tour
St. Jacques, etc, etc. Heboise lived in one
of those rookeries, and here we are at
~otre Dame. Fine, is it not? I like it
best of all, I think. That 's th~ Morgue over
there, with the never-ceasing tlirong'coming
an(l ~oinn'~ th it is tl popular
~   ~,   cy say     me
dezvous for the lovers of the Ciud - fancy!
Singular beings these French they go into
an ecstasy of fear over a bug on the carpet,
but they come here fbi' amnuseimient, and gaze
coniposedly at the body of a man that has
been five days in the Seine. It is rather
horrible. I went in diere otice with a mcdi-
cal friend, - one of' the mistakes of my life.
There was a strangled baby on one slab,

I. and the spectacle was a nightly feature of
e immy dineaums I br a immonthi. Pommt Neuf - look
e out for' a 'white horse, a soldier, amid a pm'iest,'
n and test tIme virtue of a sayimig as (mill as time
stories of tile bm'idgc, which declares that
- oum can never cross without meeting all
thmmee. Several of' each, sume enotmgli I I
1 never saw it fail. The ' Man of' Destiny
was a sixtim-stomy lodger over yonder as
Lieutenant Bonaparte, - thrfit high, pointed
f' wimehow ; flue view line Imad of' his future
a residence acm'oss time liver, - tIme Tuiheries.
Yonder is time old Coneiei'gci'ie; you immust
I go there and see tIme ' liegistems of' Doom,'
if we can wom'k it. We are in venerable,
hmistomie Paris mw. I know of nothmimig anome
h)iettmres(hue and chmam'actenistie timan these
crooked, dark stm'eets, within their quaint
houses and shops. It is the amicient do-
mimain of student amal gm'isette, nail what tIre
f fellows of the schools nine still fbmid of' calling
the ' braima of Pai'is,' though Molii~r'e has no
successor at tIme wor'n table hi time CaIb Pm'o-
cope, arid Vietor~Irigo has ('chilYe(l Racine
at time Od6on. The gm'isette too is an obso-
lete shadow, and the tmadimiormml student has
beemi quietly sumothei'ed with time other dis-
turbing elemnemats. ' Babette' wcai's a boa-
mist irow; and Paul is muome likely to be a
philegmumatie Teuton, wimo is piofitimig by the
Sorboane wimile lie miurses his ineenmiar con-
tempt for time Fienchi. Erimim little byways
and enruiers, are they not ? their amitiquity
is inilestructible. Here we are! Descen-
dons!"
Chancy woke from a daze at the word,
and followed thie speaker from the cab to
the walk, where Sormiers, afrer tossing tIme
fam'e to tIme cocker, diew Iris attention to
one of a venerable row of bumildimics before
them. Though massed mi a solid bboek,
each of time old tenememits possessed a cer-
tain antique imadividuahity which immade it a
study of itself; a long hue of shops ran
tlmm'ough the lower floom's, amad sacm'ilca'ious
modern additions of ~)aini and stucco mad
given them all a touch of gm'otcsque rcjrmve-
imation about time base; but they towered
above with an indij~nant assem'tion of age,
publishing their ancient claimums upon the
tops, where the wilderness of (histOm'ted chmim-
imeys, cocked roofs, and dornier-wimadows
fbm'mned that curious picture of an aerial
world, saci-ed to mommmamice ami(l flowem--pots
amaui sunset flum'tations within attic beauties,
wimicim is a never-to-be-forgotten feature of
vieux Paris.
"You observe that venerable pile? This
is time Rime de Buci, which we entered from the
Rinme de Seine, and that is Numero 05, 'as I
always shall remember.' I hiad thie felicity
of niakimag amy Parisian de'bet there and
imereabouts in time sci~ntifle nail honorable
capacity of a student of medicine. I weep
to think how long ago that was I Up

C
A

yonder are the Od~on awl Foyot's; on oui
right the School of Medicine, and omi out
left, down among those ine~tnieable streets
Magny's and the Procope. Below us is tlu
Sorbunne, with the Palais I~ oyal across tla
stream, au(1 these constitu ed the extrem(
limits of civilization for us in those days.
the poiiits of tIme Paris coumipass whereby we
navigated our several canoes. AIm me!
was never a very brilliant student but I
turned out a very fair Frenchuian. There
is mi't a stone iii tIme street I don't know; I
helped to (lis1daee soiiie of them in '48, the
most ardnou~ bit of exercise I ever indulged
in iii my life, and distinguished myself by
leading a spirited aa(l successful charge
against the estah!klnnent of a crusty old
wine-merchant in the Rue Jacob, to whom
evety sotil of u~ was hopelessly in debt.
Let 's go iii. I want you to know one of
my old coot,'eres who lives here, singularly
enough, iii the same antiquated house where
I begtmu mx' career in Latium, oiily lie has
the seeon(l flat fitted to the vei'ge of' splen-
(lot', while I was an attic philosopher and
had my one room principally furnished with
pipes and brokeu-biwked chairs. I was the
student en re//Ic practi4ng the j)i'ofotiud
contempt for the economies peculiar to the
order ; but Va~otir is an interne now and a
praetising pi'ofe~sor, and about the cleverest
Frenchman I know. Boo jour, Kannette.
Look at tIme old girl ! To all appearances
she his worn that same spotless cap and
apron fbi' thirty years ; she look~d*just as old,
or yoLurig, in them, the first tinme I ever saw
her, as she (hoes this moment. She was a
tripping gt'isette nuder Louis Seize, I suspect,
and could tell tins of' the dark days and the
red cipa. I remomuber well her speechless
consternation once when I made my ap-
peam'aumei~ in the bi'eakfiust-m'oom in a crimson
cas(lttette I h 1(1 picked up on the Riviera.
And Monsiettr Ya~our, Nannette '/"
" Mon"icnr is gone to dine."
~~iia~ he? How lon~ since 2"
" One httle moment seulement he is
gone."
" Good ! I know well where to find him,
and we will join his mess. You will not
comae often to tIme Quai'tier, you know, to
dine~" continued Somem's, bowing to the
(Oumciet'ge and locking mrms with Cham'ley a~
they h)asse(l out and took their way towar(ls
the Luxembourg; " but it does uiot IblIow
that the cuisine at Foyot's is to be despised.
Sonietime~, coumiming over here after an
interval, I almost fancy it is better than the
best in ihe Palais Royal."
"1 shall prove an indifl'erent jtmdge, I
gucs~," said Chamley, to whom the day had
been one of plea~anmt but suppressed excite-
macnt, an/I who felt now a peculiar exhilara-
tion as they walked up the pmctures(htie
Rue de Tournomi; "I am afraid I don't pos-

sess what you term the 'epicurean germ,'
but I know I aiim disgracefully hungry.
What 's that down tlmem'e? "
"Sainte Sulpice; it was the temple of
the old aristocracy befom'e the M ideleine
was thought of. Ahead is the Luxeuibourg;
it is heavy arid sombre, but I like it. Time
Empem'or has broken the hearts of' the old
Fauboung by cutting up its magnificent
ganilens into buildin~-lots. lIe is an ira-
placable enemy to large areas and nari'ow,
sinuotis approaches as witness time new
Boulevai'ds, and he will end by iimaking
mob-multitudes an(l barricades at solute im-
possibilities in Paris. here we are
They had reached time angle of' time street,
the en~l of it, imm(lee(l, when e the i'athei' gm'ium
melie of the wonderful Medici blood stops
the way, and Somers entered the opeim
door of' time com'ner house, which some timime-
stained letters omi time extemiom' wall p~'~-
claimed to time world was time Restaui'~mnt dn
Luxembourg, better knowim as " Fovots."
Somers led the way with the m'ea~limmess of
an habitue' to a salon on the secouid fboom',
and fbund Vasour at his usual table busy
over his introductory radishes ammd crevettes
belminmi time universal Fiqaro. Sonmers beat
down time barrier of the lattem- ratlmer uneei'e-
muon-inusly, and introduced Chmarlev to Imis
friend ; after which he pullemh up two
additional seats and rang Instily for the
gorfon. Vasour laugimed heartily at time
Titanic impetuosity of' tIme Englishumnamin,
while he gracefully acknowledged Umiarley's
bow. He had a fine, dam'k face, v~ ii h link'
to match ; but the toil of stu(ly had wormm
deep lines in time one, ammd pm'emnatum'ely sil-
vei'ed the other. There was a rare chain
in his features, however, when high teml up in
eommvem'satiomm; amid from the rapid cac&amp;~erie
which ensued between him ammd Somimems
dinmm'ing a long realist, Chancy gathered his
fim'st delighted impi'essiomms of time in mm'velboums
grace of the Fm'enich lamiginmagi' iii that light
but brilliant play of' thon~ht pecutiam' to
those whose native tonn'ue it is - iuiumitahle
and untm'anslatable. He could pat'ti('ipnte
im~it little in time play of woi'ds, but lie was
mmot allowed to feel a moment's awkwardness
or consti'aint. Vasour had waited to know
timit line uudem'stood the lamiguage, and from
that immomnemit colored his manner arid imis
ivords with a (lehicate, studied deference to
Chailcy which fairly captivated our hem'o
ammil led hmimn to time unspokemi 'onelmision, at
the thmim'd bottle of Leoville, that a cultivated
Parisian was the highest type of grace lie
had yet seen. The dinnem-, too, was a tri-
timuph ; Somers was time constructive mzenius,
assisted by Vasour, who fi-ankly acknowl-
edged, however, that tIme Englislmmmi in was
his superior in the esthe'dque of time table.
But though Charley's enjoyment of time
dinner and company could imot possibly have

42

CIIOISY.


LAUGHING LUTETIA.

CHOISY-.

'II
I
U

been greater, he was too new to the sweet
sin of table-worship to form an intelligent
estimate of the rare excellence of the repast.
lie knew only that the food was ambrosial,
and the wine a warm, rich blood, and under
the influence of both he grew rather ecstatic.
A dim conviction forced itself into his fancy
that he had lived a barbarian up to that
hour, and that he had entered another
atmosphere, where life was divested of dross
and scientifically reduced to the pure gold
of pleasure. He sealed the impression with
his last glass of purple Bordeaux, and went
down with his companions to the coffee-room,
where Madame Foyot herself, the ample,
smiling dame, whose kindly face is photo.
graphed in the memories of more men than 1
would venture to number, sat in her chair
of state and ruled, a benignant genius of
mocha anil the weed. The pretty, busy salon,
with its throng of evening guests, the Orient
odor of coffee, and clouds of smoke1 the
groups of absorbed chess-players, and noisy
tables of e'cartd and pi(luCt, the ever-merry
tumult of conversation, and the conspicuous
wit of more than one repeated jest, the fun and
good-nature and thoroughly mutual enjoy-
ment that revilede, all served to strengthen
our hero's enthusiastic repossession in favor
of Parisian lifh. The spell of this life was
in full possession of his senses; London, if
he paused t? recall it, would have seemed a
far, nusty vision of the past; and when he
rode home with Somers, after biddingYasour
good night at his door, it was in a delicious,
dreamy state of mind which rendered him
rather absent and incoherent in his replies
to the questions of his worthy companion.
"I asked Vasour to make a third in our
landau to-morrow at the races," said Somers;
"but he pleaded an engagement. Clever,
as n't lie ?"
"Wonderfully," returned Charley; "every
one is clever at Paris, n'est cc pas?"
"Generally, at and after dinner. Beware
though of an empty or a badly fed French-
man I"
The establishment in the Malesherbes was
indeed, "princely," and the rooms seemed
the embodiment of comfort isn(l luxury
un(ler the soft light of the big candelabra.
Somers flung himself in herculean abandon
on a lounge, and surveyed the scene with
deep satisfaction.
"Snug, is it not? We were deuced
lucky to get them; and now couckons!
We have a long day before us to morrow."
Charley was only too glad to avail himself
of the privilege; he was worn out in mind
and boily, though he had not realized it
until with a return to quiet the excitement
of the (lay was succeeded by the naturdi
reaction. He was in a deep, dreamless
sleep before Somers had finished his habit-
ual half~pipe of tobacco, as that gentleman,

glancing in at Charley's door before going
to his own room, perceived.
Mr. Somers arranged his night toilet in
a meditative mood. "Nice boy he seems
to be. I wonder whatever can be Huntley's
scheme? 'Tie him up 1' llumph! et com-
ment? Can't say I like the commission, or,
indeed, perceive exactly how the thing is to
be done. Just like that inscrutable Dick.
Not to hear a word of him in five years,
and then be called on tQ play third hand
without even knowing what 's trumps.
Mais enfin! the campaign opens cheerfully.
What an ineffable comfort to have got
these quarters, - the ambition of years.
Sleep sweetly, Edward, on the field of
victory! But how? 'Tie him up' like
Schneider to a Post! Good, that was. Elm
bien! sufficient unto th'~ day -"
And Monsieur Edward relapsed into ob-
livion with this rather hackneyed dismissal
of worldly cares in scriptural phrase.
CHAPTER VII.
LAUGHING LUTETIA.
THE bright skies smiled their sweetest
the next morning, when the gay world, lin-
gering in the Beautiful City to celebrate its
concluding summer festivities, opened its
drowsy eyes and remembered what day it
was. The French "Darby" - since every
born Englishman so calls it, it seems absurd
to write the word Derby - was a refined
copy of the English event. Every one
went out to assist at it, for it was run on a
Sunday, when all men above the actual sans
cut otte are at leisure in Paris, and every one
was ecstatic and excited, and thoroughly im-
bued with the fantastic enthusiasm with
which the Parisian enters into matters of a
sportive kind; but the demarcation of class
was no less sharply drawn on that day, and
of that terrific rowdyism amid unrebuked
license of the mob which make the day at
Epsom a scene of hideous communism there
was no sign at Longehamps. The immacu-
late fossil of the Jockey Club and the gilded
irresistible of the Maison Dor6e need fear
no stain to their matchless exteriors from
showers of plebeian eggs or siroccos of lime
and flour. There would be no rampant
disorder on the road, or brutal and inde-
cent exhibitions in the ficid, no private
prize-fighting or mountebank prodigies of
disgust, no dreadful, invisible phalanx of
pickpockets, and little if any of that shame-
less drunkenness which makes half a million
contemporaneous headaches in London once
a year. People would have a "good time,"
for, starting out with that object, the Pa-
risian knew no such word as fail; and there
would be wine and intrigue and wickedness

I
4
4
4
'4
$
'a
5
'S
4
4

and some exaggerated gayety. Anonyma
would sit in high places, and Breda elbow
her way to the very side of St. Germain,
and the "man as he should be" would smile
alike on each; for it was France and Paris,
capital du monde, where custom no longer
submitted to criticism, and real life scorned
the government of rules. It was Sunday,
to be sure, though the stone-cutters of An-
toine would swarm like bees upon the un-
finished Opera house, and Ilanssmann's
army of brawny iconoelasts pause no in
stant in the cutting of ruthless pathways
through whole squares of storied old tene-
ments. Working-day Paris reeked little of
seventh days. Monday, more than any
other, was that of rest; but there would
still be a general closing of shops on this,
both on the Boulevards and in the by-
streets; and the Rive Gauche as well as the
northern faubourgs would send its thou-
sands to the Lono- Field We might see
them at this early0morning hour in their
gay fbte-day robes debouching from a hun-
dred streets upon the pretty quals, and
merging there into a vast throng from
which the several streams will flow down to
the trim little Seine steamers for Point du
Jour and over the bridges to the Palais
Royal, whence start the omnibuses for Passy
and Auteuil. An army will reach the Bois
by those routes; another will enter it ~
pied, trudging patiently, even gayly, the
whole long way by the Champs Elys6es and
the Avenue of the Empress, pausing at
every second step to turn and view the
marvellous panorama of the road, and ar-
riving hot and wearied, but indefatigable,
on the t~round. A cold "bock" of Fon-
taine's Vienna beer, a cigarette of apparelal
(in which both possibly participate), and
Jean and Marie are themselves again. On
the great highways rolls the central column
of the holiday throng, beau-monde, dem-
monde, monde-e'tranger, in an endless va-
riety of vehicles, from the cavernous and
cumbrous landau of Monsieur le Due, down 4
to the simple panier which honest Citizen
Duval, purveyor of saucissons to the popu-
lation of Popincourt, has engaged at a bar- I
gain for the day, and which, with its load
of Monsieur and Madame, five children and
cocker, - eight, all told; - is dragged along
by a single little indomitable horse in the
wondrous procession.       -
What a spectacle it was I A glittering
stream of humanity, winding like an enor-
mous serpent along the most beautiful of
thoroughfares, which the stranger, standing c
at the Obelisk, might follow with his won- f
during eye in an unbroken line to the Arch ~
of the Star, two miles away.          c
A flutter and a trumpet-blast, and the I
living river divides along its whole length I
to give passage to a squadron of magnificent ~

44

45

horsemen, whose helmets of gold and long
streaming plumes of silk flash and flaunt in
the air as the riders thunder past. They are
the mysterious Cent Gardes, and closely fol-
lowing roils the imperial equipage, in which
sits "our neighbor of the Tuileries" with
his wife and child. You know him at once,
the gray, stern, watchful face, somewhat
softened now as he strives to have it, as he
returns the salutes of the people. And you
may know her too, the sweet-faced, smiling
woman at his side, who bends so gracefully
and wins your heart, and even makes you
forget that she sits an empress in a stolen
chair. The mass closes in n~ain behind
them like parted waters; and stemming
her way in the wake of the imperial coridge'
a blond goddess of the Folies, seated in
her coach of triumph, scarcely less splen-
did than the Emperor's own, pursues her
lightsome route, - a significant picture, at
which we smile as we replace our hats.
The noon of this day found Chancy and
his new friend and guide enjoying a de-
lightful breakfast under the shade of inge-
niously twined trees at Passy. Somers had
preferred this quiet and gradual manner
of approach, representing its advantages
with the wisdom of experience "We
should ham stifled with heat and dust
on the road; all the balayeurs in Baby-
lon could not reduce the amount of either
on the Avenue to-day, though they had the
entire Seine in their hose; and as for the
crowd, we shall see the cream of it on the
field. We can drive out quietly to Pussy,
and breakfast luxuriously in a miniature
wood, - there's a fair cafd there, where
some square yards of nature do duty for a
dining-room, - and enter the Bois after-
wards at our leisure. I think you will be
amused."
So they had gone out before the gather-
ng of the multitude, and were pleasantly
stalled at their rustic table when the tide
was beginning to swell in the Champs. And
Charley was amused, though to his charmed
tenses a lesser cause than the excited and
imaginativee Frenchmen about them, who
bund all the enchantment of Armida's gar-
len in the little enclosure of saplings, and
lid homage to their several Amaryllises in
in exuberant, pastoral style, ludicrous be-
pond description, would have yielded rare
delight.
"Funny, is n't it?" said Somers, linger.
ng over his glass of Graves; "look at those
)eople, how they enjoy it I You have no
conception of the intense pleasure that
loods the soul of a middle-class Parisian
rhen he finds himself in what he calls 'the
country ' The pat-fl lila champagne is his
highest idea of earthly bliss. Auteuil is an
iden, Fontainebleau heaven itself, in his
hiosophy. They excel this at Sceaux,

ill


LAUGhING LUTETIA.

I:
Ii
ii
.11

however, where you sit down to dinner fif-
teen in a tree-top. We will do the 'envi-
rons' sonic day; they are full of attractions."
The great stalls were thronged, and the
occupants of the imperial pagoda in their
places, when our friends arrived at the
course, where, procuring betting-ring cards,
they left their landau and strolled through
the maze of rich equipages. Somers gos-
siped in his usual style, as they wound
their way leisurely onward. his frequent
salutes betokened a numerous acquaintance,
and niore than once Chancy felt himself to
be the object of close scrutiny by the gay
company of some splendid coach.
"You see that old shadow over there
being taken tender care of?" rattled Som-
ers; "that 's Auber, and that other fossil
with a perpendicular backbone is Bruns-
wick, the man of diamonds. Why, we 're
surrounded by the Orphean celebrities!
That 's Herv~ yonder; and that little Jew
dandy, sitting with the corpulent man, is
Jean Offenbach. His companion is Vile-
messant, redacteur of the Figaro. There
is a merry party of your countrymen. The
aroma of independence marks them even
in t'iis mixed crowd; only it 's a pity that
di y should begin so early and so recklessly
on the champagne. You have n't seen the
Emperor yet? We will saunter down.
Ah 1 1 must stop here an instant."
He dropped Chancy's arm as he spoke,
and advanced, bowing, to the side of a car-
riage which with its occupants was well-
nigh hidden from view by the circle of gen-
tlemen that surrounded it. Charley, fol-
lowing with his eyes the movements of his
friend, noted the fact with some curiosity.
He did not immediately look again, but
when he did so he met the laughing eyes
of a lady who had raised herself slightly in
her place, evidently to see him; and, over-
come by a sudden and unaccountable con-
fusion, he moved away abruptly, not hear-
ing the little call which Somers gave at the
same instant. It was an absurd thing to do,
but in five minutes he had hopelessly lost
himself in the crowd. He could find nei-
ther Somers nor their conveyance, and after
fruitless efforts he gave himself up to the
situation, sat down philosophically and saw
the great French race run by English jock-
ics, and after it, not being fanmiliar with
the main route, walked briskly back to the
barrikre at Passy, and took a cab to the
Malesherbes.
As for Somers, he excused himself to his
fair acquaintance at once, on observing that
Charge~ had disappeared, and made an un-
availing attempt to find him in the throng.
Ho returned alone to the lady's carriage
with a rueful face.
' Le pauvre Hercule!" cried she whose
eyes had routed our Charley. She sat in

state, with an elderly lady of smiling mien
at her side, and a court of aristocratic gal-
lants about her, who were visibly envious
of the familiarity accorded to the colossal
Englishman. "One would think," she
said, "that Omphale had been scolding!
Mais, dites doac - who is your Apollo?"
Somers smiled saucily, and shook his
head at the questioner.
"Pardon, Madame Ia Baronne; it is an
infant from the land of the IVlohicans, sent
to my especial care; he must he spared."
"La belle affaire!" laughed the beauty,
with a nioue at the Bohemian which sent a
thrill through the hearts of the admiring
observers assembled. "I honor your scru-
ples, my good man, and in recognition
of them," she added, leaning forward and
speaking to him alone, "I order you to
bring him to de~'ftueer to-morrow, peine
d'amende! Bon jour, Monsieur le Compte!
bon jour, Monsieur Gedran When I~go to
the wicked places, I meet all my friends.
Remember I "- she called to Somers, who
was giving place to the new-comers, and
was bowing a retreat, - "remember my or-
ders," and tl~e injunction was accompa-
nied by a pretty menace with a fan. Som-
ers, too far removed to reply, bowed again,
and betook himself, somewhat thoughtfully,
to the betting-ring. "What a 'go' that
would be, to be sure!" he said to himself,
half audibly, as he approached a group of
excited sportsmen. A moment later he
was inimersed in the affairs of the field, and
did not recall the existence of his "charge"
until tented in lAs conveyance on the way
home. He found our hero comfortably dis-
posed on several chairs, tr~ ing to worry
through the epigrams of the (1auloi.~ and a
French plagiarism on a cigar.
"Ah! home all right? how the deuce
did you manage to lose yourself so sud-
denly? or were you carried off bodily?"
"I 'ii be hanged if 1 know!" returned
Chancy, assuming the upright. "Neither
could 1 make out who won in the race."
"0 - the Frenchmen! The English
horses were nowhere, and lost everything,
precisely as I anticipated. There will he
rare offerings to the gods to-night over the
success of the French stables. Are you
ready for dinner?"
"Very much ready, I might sny~ - I am
starved!"
"Good! we '11 go to Voisin's; it 's con-
venient, and we may see and hear some-
thing of the sore-heads from over the Chan-
nel, as they go there en masse; but we are
Frenchmen, bien entendu. I beg of' you not
to betray us by any inadvertent English."
"I fancy my French will do that quite as
effectually
"Never, to English ears; and, indeed,
your French is capital. Allons!',

46

CHOISY.

47

Charley was burning to inquire of his corn- ing lights gathered here and there into bril-
panion about the owner of the laughing gray liant constellations at the eqftk-concerts;
eyes, whose glances lingered pertinaciously the fountains and music, and the gay, rest-
in his memory; but he did not summon less multitude of people giving life and mo-
courage to do so until late at dinner, after tion to it all, - formed a picture unique in
the eveited kmit~ of English gentry about the world, dazzling and almost unearthly.
them had lost their interest, or* finished A woman's voice, clear and full, and soar-
their dinners and gone away grumbling. lag above the sea-like murmur of the crowd-
Then, under cover of his wineglass, he ed gardens, in the brindisi from Trariata,
asked, indifferently enough, "Who was the reached the ears of our friends as they
f~tcd lady for whom you deserted me so drove lazily along the road.
incontinently out at the race?"          "Mademoiselle  Thomas ! " ejaculated
"To be sure!" cried Somers. "I had Somers. "She sings like an angd, and yet
forgotten. She? my dear fellow, it is the she is in the very last stage of consumption.
only woman on earth!" One would never suspect the sad fact from
Charley looked up rather quizzically, but a voice like that. Look at the crowd about
the expression of Somers's face checked his Gui~nol and the children on those merry-
rising' smile.                         ~o-rounds! If they were any hut French
"I caught but a glimpse of her; she children, they'd have been abed these two
ieerned a very handsome woman." hours. People scold at the Empire; by
"Beautit~il as she is good, and good as Jove! I should like to be shown a picture
she is beautiful," continued Somers, soberly. of popular enjoyment equal to this in any
"I will tell you more of her some time; other corner of the world!"
meanwhile you are honored by an opportu- Laurent's pretty restaurant gleamed with
nity of knowing her." light and echoed with life as they passed,
Charley looked rather frightened, and and a throng of carriages surroundedd the
was, indeed, thoroughly puzzled; it was Cirque de l'Imperatrice.
not easy correctly to estimate the character "They will have a rare audience there
of one of whom the volatile Bohemian spoke to-night," said Somers; "money could not
in such tones and terms. buy a single stall. A great fete at Mabille
"I shall be very happy, I'm sure -" always draws a corresponding crowd at the
"We are to breakfast with her to-mor- Cirque, and a thoroughly aristocratic one,
row," continued Somers, not noticing his too. Not daring to go to the former, its
words. "I had nearly forgotten it, what patrons do the next best thing, and come
with doubles or quits at Longehamps, and here, - next door, you might say. it 's the
the acid chatter of these fellows, - how simplest thing in the world, you see, to
they hate to lose!"                    make the circus the excuse and M~ahille the
No more was said respecting the un- object."
named lady, and they sallied out soon after, "Mabille is tabooed, then, among the
and took their way up the Rue St. Honor. respectables"
"We must peep at Saturnalia to-night, "Among the French, decidedly. For our
hut it is early yet," said Somers, looking people, en tourist, it may be looked at once
at his watch. "Too hot for the theatres, by a lady with perfect propriety, time and
is n't it? Schneider sings in "Diva" at occasion being considered. Anything like
the Boufl'es, and Blanche d'Autigny at the a succession of visits is a dangerous or at
Follies; but we should only envy the cool least unwise experiment, though certain of
nakedness of the ballet. Suppose we air your countrywomen have taken the ri~k. It
our cigars in a cab?" is 'jolly,' you know, but it is a mistake,
"As you wilL"                        after all. Foreign ladies are at a sad dis-
They found a basket-wagon in the Place, advantage in Paris, at the best; they will ig-
and the cocker having called on his saints nore native ideas, but you can't change the
to witness that his horse h~d not moved an traditional customs of a thousand years;
inch all day, they got in afid pursued their and it is just the same in the Italian cities.
way up the Champs in the delicious even- Your English or American woman will
ing air. Those to whom the enchanted rebel against the social rule which forbids
night-scene of the Elysian Fields in sum- her to go alone to her shoemaker's, two
mer is a treasured memory, will not wonder blocks from her hotel in the Rue de Ia Paix.
that Chancy's first feeling was a sort of Eh bien! she may do it successfully once in
childish thrill at being ushered into im- ten; but if she has been twice to Mabille,
agined fairy-land. The long vista of ~t o- she is dead sure of an 'experience' on the
ly trees, each a Ilerue's oak with a ~ia' - route."
cap, elfin circle about its feet; the pretty They had arrived at the Arch by this
patches of shrubbery and flowery mounds, time, but, tempted by the coolness. and
with a thousand shaded paths winding in beauty of the night, pursued their course
and out among them; the millions of flash- onward by the avenue, which was full of


CHOISY.                                               LAUGHING LUTETIA.

I)
II
:1
Ii
II~
II

flickering tights that made it look like a
long train of fireflies, leading from the
mighty monument to the entrance of the
I3oas. A, myriad of air-seekers, in fact,
were swarming out again over the same
path of the day-throng, filling the avenue,
and wellnigh filling the wood, where all the
branching roads were flooded with their
cabs.
"Look at them I" cried Somers, as they
passed the Barribre, with that genius of fig-
ures in his place who must that day have
taken the numbers of ten thousand voitures,
and emerged into the forest shade. "The
material for crowds in Paris is incredible;
tell off a dozen great armies for a dozen
several points, and a mass remains equal to
the composition of as many more. There
is a reserve population which is as inex-
haustible as an ant-hill. A strangt~r would
say to-night, looking at the Champs and
the central Boulevards, that all Paris was
divided between them; but here is a league
of forest alive with people, and he will find
like multitudes at Monceaux, at the Luxem-
bourn', and on the 'cross-town Boulevards;
at afi the theatres, at Bullier, Chateau
Rouge, Mabille, Reine Blanche, - every-
where. Let him try, for an experiment, to
find a corner in Paris to-night where there
is not a crowd. I don't believe it can be
done!"
They made the tour of the lake, and,
halting at Fontaine's, lingered long over
a refreshing mug of biere de Vienne, gath-
ering endless amusement from the study
of the merry table-groups about them. it
was nearly midnight when they came down
the avenue again' into the city, meeting,
even at that hour, hundreds of noisy cab-
loads pursuing the outward course. Charley
could not repress his astonishment
"Heavens! do these people never sleep?"
"You will repeat the question with more
propriety two or three hours hence," said
Somers. "Why, life is just beginning now
for half of Paris! You shall see. - A Ma-
blue, cocker! eveille-toi I"
Cocker was fast asleep, of course. Slum-
ber is cocker's normal condition in the city
of the sleepless, of which he is a mystic and
unique production. He responded to Som-
ers's sharp orders only by a guttural boa!
m'sieu', opening one eye by sleepy instinct
when the turning at the avenue Montaigne
was reached, and landing them at the illu-
mined portal two minutes later, with his
organs of vision sealed alike to them, to the
many-colored glare, and the stately gens-
darmes who ornamented the entrance like
monuments of decorative art.
"Tell me, cocker," said Somers, laughing,
as he gave the man his fare and drink-
money, "you have slept the whole way
from Fontaine's, eh?"

"Monsieur has parfaitement raison,"
responded the heso of the glazed hat with
sober dignity, as he wheeled away to give
place to the ever-arriving throng.
Mabille was a madness that night as the
two entered; even somers gave a little whis-
tie as they drew up outside the great cir-cle
promenade, and Charley was speechless at
the spectacle. Rubens' wildest dream of a
bacchanal would be a congregation of color-
less shadows beside the scene that met their
eyes, and the master-bands which Tiled the
walls of the Sistine and the Ducal Palace
with writhing masses of humanity might
still have shrunk from the task of portraying
this. The simple dance-garden - pitiable,
gilded mart of flesh that it was - sometimes
acquired a kind of dignitysimply by the colos-
sal proportions that it took on. It had been
thus magnified to-night, and he must have
been a rare ascetic who, staii(ling in the
full glare of the ensemble, could still dis-
member and reduce it to the paltry and hid-
eous details of which it was mainly composed.
There were legions of women and a great
host of men; women of every country, of
every hue, of a dozen tongues, and a
bewildering variety of dress. The Egyptian
girl with her bronze skin and strange, fan-
tastic costume; the Italian and the Greek,
scarcely less dark, and sharing equally the
haunting charm of the black, unfathomable
eye of the East; the pure blond Plain-
mande, all pale gold and rose,'with a cloud
of yellow hair, like Ruhens's Venuses, or
better fulfilling, perhaps, the i(lea of the
beautiful Scandinavian Fates; and her sister
blonde of England, less fair and infinitely
coarser, with the man's hand, the man's
voice, and little of the woman but her smooth
beauty; the North German, with wide Ibre-
heads, sleepy blue cycs, plaited hair, and
the sadly incongruOus kausfrau look; the
tall, thin Russe, flashing with diamonds,
thrilling you with strange, imperious eyes,
and filling you with wonder at the marvel-
lous linguistic skill of the far Northerner;
the silent Espagnole, the transplanted Arncr-
icaine, and the Parisienne herself, least in
beauty but queen unquestioned; the fever-
ish, quenchless embodiment of the whole,
sacrificing life to passion, and embracing sin
with exultant frenzy. And to mate these
some hundreds of Frenchmen, sallow, worn,
and fleshless men, with circled e~ es warmed
into a blaze by absintke, whose very smiles
were brutal sneers, and on whom 'wreck'
was written iti ineffaceable lines. A spri~k-
hug of foreign male faces filled up the pic-
ture; here and there an awkward group of
cockneydom striving to master the situation,
but suffering from evident embarrassment
and rather frightened, and other, more
numerous groups of Americans in no degree
perturbed.

4
I

48

49

A single face looming above the ocean of unison with the concluding strain of the
heads fastened the attention of our Charley; music, announce the finish. The nag
it was a round, small-featured, freckled face, breaks up into tossing fragments, or inomen-
fringed with belligerent sandy whiskers, and tary smaller circles, each with some panting
surmounted by a sweltering Breadalbane heroine of the dance for its centre; the
bonnet. There was a pinched look about storm of voices becomes a harsh rattle, with
the nose, and a pursed expression about here and there loud, unintelligible cries, and
the mouth, while the sharp, gray eyes sur- one living wave rolls back into the cafe' for
veyed the scene with a certain contemptuous the parting glass, while another moves toward
look: it was the tourist Scotchman, the the gates. There is a sudden commotion
philosopher, traveller of the world par excel- which arrests both, and Charley and Somers,
lence; and Charley could not but mark the who are in the latter, face about in their
emotionless countenance as that, perhaps, places. A splendid girl, whose criiuson
of the only strong-anchored soul in all those cheeks and dark hair proclaim her Galhie
hundreds.                               blood, has snatched a violin from the orches-
There did not lack action for all .these tra and, mounted on a beer-table, draws a
actors. The great orchestra in the central long note; the cheer that follows holds the
pagoda swelled the opening notes of the outgoing crowd. It is some minutes before
"last quadrille," and a wave of outward the husky "bravos" cease, - a period
motion cleared the circle of dancing-ground which the fair performer vainly endeavors to
at the same instant. Terpsichore - it shorten by shaking the unhappy instrument
indeed, the sweet Muse acknowledged the at her audience, and stamping her little
legitimacy of the cotillon &amp; Ut Prefecture feet. Then she begins cleverly enough, and
- has long since ceased to reign at Mabille. plays half a dozen bars of the "Gendarme
For the historic can-can one must go to Duet" from Genevibve de Brabant; the
Buhlier, where it flourishes with startling multitude catch the air and burst into an
vigor. In the Avenue Montaigne he will accompanying chorus, which is a very
find on or(linary evenings only a neglected tempest of sound. There is a move onward
circle of hired professionals, who tread the again towards the gate, accelerated by some
famous measure with the ease of gymnasts unseen manipulation of the gas-pipes, which
and the indifference of old stagers. Bat this shrouds half the garden in instantaneous
night the rules are all broken, the bounds darkness. Simultaneously a quick stroke
all ignored; as the music quickens and from behind brings Charley's hat down
the restless throng presses closer about the upon hi~ nose with a crash, and he hears a
dancers, with its thousand-tongued clamor shout of triumph, a very silvery shout, in
of laughter and applause, more than one his rear. Struggling on t of his hat, he tries
queen of the promenade gathers her train to look about, but Somers, who is laughing
with a toss over her arm and springs into like a Titan and holding his own castor in
the ring with a huzza; she might be an his hand, gathers the young man's arm in
empress in her robe of shimmering silk, his own and hurries him along.
with the cluster-brilliants gleaming on her "No safety now, hut in flight, Charley I
throat and in her hair; but she is only a Egad! I never saw Mabille so furious.
Bacehante, after all, and a very furious and It 's 'kingdom for a horse,' with us."
reckless one too, at whom one looks in They made their way almost by force
fascination and in terror. Her favored fol- through the dense crowd, Somers's laughing
lower springs after her; it is young V'aurien, free disarming all resentment at their vig-
perhaps, scattering his father's millions, or orous progress. Half-way out Charley saw
Baron Boucceur, with twoscore years on his Scotch tourist wedged in among a dozen
his infatuated head. The after-agonies will uproarious revellers, his face inflamed, and
be horrible to either human shadow probably, every hair of his beard bristling with wrath,
but they dash as madly into the demoniacal but utterly helpless to extricate himself
jig as their mad mistress, regardless of the except as the passage of the crowd would
sacrifice of limb or dignity. The roar of ultimately permit him. Chancy was still
the instruments i5 drowned in the roar of laughing at the memory of the contempla-
tongues; the very trees above and the weird, tive Highlander as they jumped into a cab
unnatural flowering shrubs of iron and gas and sped away from the entrance between
and colored glasses seem to catch the frenzy double lines of similar vehicles, which seemed
and bend and sway like the quivering mass to be interminable.
about them. The loiterers in the by-paths "Talk of squeezes!" said Somers, who
and the cafe' desert their seclusion to join the had readjusted his hat and was biting a
revel, and the dense circle heaves and cigar, "saw you ever one like that? And
trembles with the intense excitement of the your hat? A case for Mar~chal in the
moment, which finds a fitting culmination morning, I fancy. If it 's any consolation
of glare and explosion in the six or eight for you, I can tell you that the mischief
huge pieces of firework, which, set off in was done by a lace parasol in as pretty a
7

I
I

CHOISY.


i"TCTQ

50                               ,.dIi~J
hand as can be found in Paris. It 's all
thrown in, you know, at Mabille. There 's
not a whole hat on the ground by this time.
Stop at the corner, cocker, while I get a light."
"But who smashed my hat?" asked
Charley, as Somers put fire to his cigar.
Charley was thinking of the pretty hand.
"Ah!" replied Somers, deliberately,
and between long puffs of his weed, -his
thoughts were busy too at the moment, -
"you would hardly care to know, at least
not now. When you do, you may. But
what did you think of the affair? How did
it strike you in its grand entireness?"
Chanley never thought of resenting the
rather dictatorial manner of his friend,
which was worn with so much grace that it
was scarcely felt. He forgot the parasol
for the moment, and went back to the pre-
vious scenes.
"I could hardly express my opinion," he
replied. "I never saw anything like it
before, or formed any conception of it."
"You should see a bal d'opera," said
Somers, who always had the superlative in
reserve; "you will see one, probably."
"Most likely; in the winter, I suppose."
"Yes, after New Year. - Voi~&amp;! the
Boulevard; now you might ask, 'When
does Paris sleep?' It 's past one o'clock,
and look at the walks I"
They had entered the Italians by the
Rue Luxembourg, and the effect was indeed
startling, as the brilliant line of cafe's with
their millions of lights,, and the undimin-
ished tide of humanity rolling and swelling
about them, came into sudden view. They
got out at the Grand Hotel, dismissed their
panier, and sauntered with the current to
the next corner, where, at Somers's sugges-
tion, they went across to the Udder for a
rognon broclie'.
"One must feed the fires, you know; and,
in fact, supper at two o'clock is the most
natural thing possible at Paris, untimely as
it might seem anywhere else. Besides, the
last scene of this 'strange, eventful' com-
edy is enacted in these and other popular
coffee-rooms, and remains to be seen."
Charley was nothing loath, to tell the
truth, and the broiled kidneys, washed down
with warm Bordeaux, were delicious. The
retreating army of Mabille arrived, too, in
rapid detachments, and the pretty rooms
assumed the liveliest possible appearance;
everybody was hungry, and a score of nim-
ble waiters ran -breathless races to and fro.
How they did eat and drink and laugh!
How the lights dazzled, and the corks
echoed in cheery chorus to merry voices,
until the hours stole away, until the air was
heavy with Laferme and Moca, and the
long day of carousal was growing cold and
lifeless among the yesterdays!
When our friends emerged upon the

SMILES 2

Boulevard, daylight was tingling the sky;
and as they walked rather lazily toward the
Malesherbes, they met more than oiie troop
of blouse workmen coming up from the
river to their early labor, - heavy-browed
men, who eyed them askance and muttered
in undertones. Charley might have seen
in them the night-sleepers he had looked
for, though they slept badly in St. Antoine,
and had wild dreams, even in those un-
clouded days.
"Now," cried Somers, as they entered
their cosey parlor at last, "ra te couclier!
It is four o'clock; you can have nine hours,
and you will need them all."
CHAPTER YIII.
SMILES AND EYES.
IT was not without a certain degree of
pleasant excitement that Chancy, roused by
somers at noon from a wild vision of hobgob-
ha Cent Gardes and dancing girls, proceed-
ed to make his toilet, under the eye of his
Mentor, for the event of the day, the d4/eu-
ner with the lady of the gray eyes. The
charm had worked swiftly and surely on
our boy-hero; he had strayd in the en-
chanted ground, where the spell of the glow-
ing present shaded the past and masked the
years to come; he wandered in the rose-
twined paths in ecstasy, unconscious that
they too, like the old Cretan serpentine,
led to no end and afforded no retreat.
Few men could breathe freely the Paris
atmosphere of those days without imbibing
something of the subtle poison, and sharing
in some measure the intoxication of the
time; and Charley was not one to resist or
analyze the magic influence. Why should
he, indeed? Why question the nature of
the charm which made time so swift and
sweet, and life so lovely, when one is young
and the blood is warm, with all those sober
years yet to come, in which, if nued be, one
may make amends for the follies of his
youth, and be blessed after the manner of
the world? The vexed problem of an ex-
hausted civilization or the inexorable logic
of antecedents were not likely to disturb
his enjoyment of visible effects. Paris
might be, as it was, the fevered brain where
the disease of the nation was centredcon-
suming its victim with hidden fires; to
Charley - to any of us, wondering strangers
within its gates - it was only gay, brilliant
Paris. We might, indeed, recoil at times
from the too scorching heat; we might own
to a silent relief in the thought that it was
not our abiding-place nor yet our country,
and we should not have eared to call the men
and women we saw there brothers and
sisters before the world; still we were not

called on to dream sad dreams of "Greece,
Rime, Carthage," in its sunny streets, or
con the melancholy lesson of national decay.
And we did not, - did we, sir? Not we;
though you, as representing the peculiarly
rigid community of Churchtown, might have
done so with some propriety. But then -
you know how it was!
I remember standing once before that
strangely suggestive painting of Couture's
in the gallery of Luxembourg, Les Rb-
mains de la De'cadencc. It shows a wild
revel of degenerate Romans, who have cho-
sen the very tribune of the Forum fbr the
scene of their debauch, and the groups of
wine and drug maddened men and women
are drawn with startling power. Those
who have seen it will not readily forget it, -
the two or three splendid but ruined faces
among the women in the foreground, and
the delirious agony of' one who stands in
middle - distance, tearing her hair, with
shrieks; the man who ~clings reeling to a
column, holding out his overflowing cup to
the stern bust of Cicero, with an idiot's
mockery; the crouching slave who pnurs
the crimson Falernian, and casts stealthy
glances at the brutes who are yet his mas-
ters; and the two sad, thoughtful citizens
in humble dress who pause to note the scene.
An intelligent Frenchman was my com-
panion, and observed my interest.
"More majoruin!" he said, laughing;
"but they do it better at ."
Chancy was guilty of some trifling vani-
ties - rather exceptional for him they were
- in the process of dressincr before alluded
to. In fact, the laughing glance that had
met his own on the race-ground lingered
persistently in his memory, - it was only a
part of the Paris spell, perhaps,-- and he
had a youthful desire to look his best
before the unknown. Somers, who was
stretched ponderously on a lounge, watched
the young man with a curious smile.
"By Jove!" he cried, at length, laughing I
his musical, contagious laugh, "you sur-
pass the traditions, Charley. We are fa- 1
niliar with the lamb which goes meekly to
Ic sacrifice, but for that which studies the I
minutise of pleasing ornament for the cere-
mony we are scarcely prepared." 1
The merry Colossus, however, was well
pleased with his charge. If a third party I
had been on the scene, and a commentary
possible, his thought would have been ex- I
pressed in the words, "Handsome~dog, is n't I
he?" As it was, his unspoken reflection
took another form, and an inspiration pro-
cisely identical with that which had given t
him a little shock the day previous at Long-
champs led to the i'eiteration of the thought, e
"That wou'd be a 'go'!"
If I have failed critically to describe my ~

.

LND EYES.                           51
hero in any foregoing page, the failure is
due to my confidence that my amiable read-
er would never suspect me of introducing
in that capacity any other than a "hand-
some dog," as described by Monsieur Som-
ers. I leave that dangerous innovation to
writers of a bolder school than mine, espe-
cially as I am dealing with certain ingredi-
eats of fact; and I can satisfactorily assure
the reader that Charley richly deserved the
encomium bestowed by his friend. Not so
bad a one, indeed, after all; for among the
millions of dogs, as well as men, we all know
how few are "handsome "I The "Man in
the Club Window," who, with true English
acumen, puts the whole world in the cruci-
ble of Pall Mall, would have said of young
Wales, "There 's a fine specimen of your
American; pity he will not wear his
beard!" And the Ladies of the Lake, t'se
winsome nainds ol~ the Bois, and no bad
judges, would have cried with one voice,
"My God! what eyes! what petite pretty
feet! c'est un Rassiqniac!"
As he stood at last completely arrayed,
and lighted cigar number one for the day,
he might have been photographed as a man
of rather more than medium height, slight
without being slim, with the straight, down-
ward lines in trunk and limb of the immor-
tal Archer in the Belvedere Court. Short,
curling, dark brown hair fell over a low,
wide forehead, below which the big brown
eyes slept, like unmanned fires, undi~r the
womanish lashes. A luxuriant mustache
hid the rather full mouth,- the only posi-
tively faulty feature he had. The nose was
straight and well defined, -the rarest beau-
ty, I fancy, in the human physiognomy. One
found a littl~suspected squareness in the
chin and jaw, but the neck below was full
and round like a woman's, and displayed as
it was by the low, broad collar of' the day,
dipping in front to the bone, gave him
something of a softer feminine look. His
dress required no criticism; Somers admit-
ted as much in his heart, and was silent.
"What then is the hour prescribed for
these afternoon ' breakfasts'?" asked Char-
Ley, spinning a ring of smoke before him as
he spoke.
"We are expected at two o'clock. You
nust forswear your transatlantic measure-
nents of time, Charley, with us. I don't
mow what they are; something like our
l~nglish divisions, probably, which I have
forgotten . In Paris life never begins he-
'ore the meridian hour, and takes its repose
srhen it likes. You laugh at the epidemic
prevalencee of clocks; but it is just because
heir office is ignored that they are tolerated
a such profusion. There are only two
vents in the daily revolution of a Parisian
rhich make it necessary to consult a time-
dece,-~-his dinner and the rendezvous."


52                        CHOISY.                                                         SMILES AND EYES.

The speaker brought himself to a sitting
posture as he spoke, and consulted his own
watch.
"Is this a dinner then, or a 'rendezvous,'
my noble Frenchman?" asked Chancy,
with a puff and a smile.
"Ma foi, Charles 1" cried Somers, ris-
ing, "I venture no guess. I can read nei-
ther stars nor women, wh&amp; are equally be-
yond our mortal ken. We are favored
souls; that 's all I know, and, like discreet
persons as we are, let us accept the good
fortune without questioning the eyeless
deity, - a clear case of 'no talking' to the
genius of the wheel, ehi A/ions! I want
to hear how our new coup~ strikes you. 1
have n't seen it, but I left it to Vernay, and
he does nothing badly."
The vehicle was at its post, a natty
affair in aristocratic green, with a smart,
handsome cob and a well-fed Jehu, all
smiles, drab cloth, and gilt buttons. Som-
ers was pleased: "Neat, is n't it? Cinder-
ella's pumpkin reduced to the modest re-
quirements of two quiet young men. Cocker
15 a jewel. M'sieur Stokes, is it not?"
"Non, Monsieur, je me nomme Gabriel."
"Bab! it 'a out of. all propriety; we
want the affair of the horse, horsy. Ob-
serve, my good man, that you are hereafter
'Stokes,' and nothing but 'Stokes,' and
that we take the curb for nobody."
It is to be doubted if the personage in
drab entirely relished the summary meta-
morphosis of his cognomen; but he closed
the door with a gay smile, and, in obedi-
ence to Somers's instructions, whirled them
across to the precincts of Monceaux, draw-
ing up at the closed porte-coch&amp;e of a large
residence in the Avenue de la Reine Hor-
tense. Somers dismissed the coup~ and led
the way through a flowery court to a door
where they were ceremoniously received by
a servant in livery, and conducted to a luxu-
rious reception-room opening upon an en-
closed garden, and breezy with perfume.
Charley was in considerable bewilderment,
from which he was aroused on the instant
by Somers, and presented with some for-
mality to a lady of rather more than middle
age, but of aristocratic demeanor, who had
entered immediately after themselves. She
acknowledged Charley's low bow with much
grace, and launched at once into that easy
flow of words which is the unfailing re-
source of the Frenchwoman at all times
and in all circumstances. She was de-
lighted to know Monsieur ~Vales, both as a
friend of Monsieur Somers and as a repre-
sentative of the great country beyond the
sea. She cherished a profound interest in
l'Ame'rique. She had an ancient relative,
en effrt, since dead, who had performed
prodigies of valor under- the General La-
fayette against the negroes en Bre'szl, was it

not? And she had devoured with ecstasy
in earlier days those charming legends cf
Coupaire and ce charmant Mon6ieur Gu/V-
va~re. Would the gentlemen sit; and how,
monsieur, had he found it, the Paris? Ma-
dame Ia Baronne had run away far one lit-
tle moment; she goes to come immediately.
And on the word the lady entered, com-
ing in with a little stumble and a real of
laughter as a microscopic terrier, victim of
unlucky chance, darted with a ~ elp from his
hiding-place in the rug of foaming llama,
where her foot had caught him. Chancy
came to his feet half dazed, preserving
just sufficient self-possession to repeat his
deep obeisance as Somers's voice fell on his
ear.
"Madame la Baronne, permettez; Mon-
sieur Charles Wales; voici vos ordres ol3e'is!"
"C'est bien fait, - merci."
In this instant of by-play Chancy stood
voiceless, an amusing mixture of grace and
qaucherie, with his gaze fixed on the hostess.
The recollection of the grand eyes at Long-
champs, lingering as it was, had scarcely
prepared him for the magnificent woman
who now smiled before him. Her dress
was an exquisite morning neqlige' of some
misty material which melted into a foam of
lace about her neck and shoulders, and fell
in soft, airy folds along her fbrm, like a
tissue of snow, shortened in front, so that
the tiny slippers with their square buckles
of gold peeped out as she walked. Masses
of dark hair were gathered carelessly in a
great knot at the back of her head, from
which a shower of curls fell far below her
shoulders, kept in place apparently by a
mimic dagger with a diamond hilt. It was
the only ornament she wore; there was not
so much as a ring upon the hand she ex-
tended with a winning smile to Charley, as
she glided across to him, a perfect girl-god-
dess in her fresh and rosy loveliness. He
took it awkwardly, and was making a des-
perate struggle ~o frame an appropriate sen-
tence in French~ when she spoke to him, with
a divining look, in English pure as his own.
"I am most happy to meet you, Mr.
Wales, and you are very good to come.
That naughty Hercules !It was just an ac-
cident that I learned he had a friend come
from the end of the world to see our beau-
tiful Paris, and obtained the privilege of
contributing my mite to make it pleasant
for you. He knows that his friends are
mine. You are quite in disgrace, indeed
you are, Monsieur Somers," she continued,
and added mischievously, in a lower tone,
". and I turn you bodily over to the tender
mercies of Mamma Grandoie."
"But, Madame, I do assure you
"Silence "she cried, with a pretty, tragi-
cal stamp, "assure me nothing. Go and do
your penance I"

I
I

She broke into a little silvery laugh at
the fine Bohemian moved away disconsolate
towards the .A~gis. "Le pauvre hon homme
But you are not long in Paris, Mr. XVales?
"I arrived but four days since."
"And you like it?" with a pretty eleva-
tion of her eyebrows.
Charley was recovering, and he replied
that he had found it the "most delightful
spot on earth."
She looked innocently interested. "It
seems very popular with your countrymen,
of whom we see so many and meet so few.
Is it not absurd that you are really the first
American I have ever met in my house?
I have many English friends, however.
Tell me, is it true that you say in America,
'We shall go to Paris when we die'?"
"If we are good, it is the hope of our
lives, madame; I am only just learning
how happy a one it is; but- do people die
here?"
"Ma/heureusement! I believe so; and
you are here snce four days only" (the
home. idiom, which never entirely quits the
French tongue made her English very piq-
uant). "I must suspect you have been fbr-
tunate in discovering attractions.~~
"Ma(lame suspects with ~ said
Charley, bowing; the little glimmer of
merriment in her eyes made him bolder, and
he a(lded, " I am only puzzled to understand
in what unhappy atmosphere I have hereto-
fore existe(l."
She looked comically sympathetic, but
smiled ineredul~usly.
Was it so bad? but then, Mr. Wales, at
your years much can be done to repair the
losses of a previously dull life. Paris will
do you good."
Heaven knows what foolish thing Charley
had on his tongue to say, but at that mo-
ment a grave functionary opened and shut
himself twice at the door and then an-
nounced the d~7euner. Charley gave his
arm to the Baronne, and they proceeded to
the breakfast-room, followed by the others.
The meal, perfect in its details and delight-
ful beyond words in its easy familiarity,
was a revelation to Charley; one does not
always discover in our home-land that she,
the ~vomar, who gives a ~grace and smooth-
ness to the rough surface of our lives, may
even extend her influence to the ceremony
of eating, and rob that exercise of what t~he
fastidious are sometimes fain to term its
"vulgarity." But the Baronne in her place
as hostess was at once the beaming woman
and the watchful dispenser of her bounty;
a spniteall wit and smiles, and yet a con-
vive with whom the art of eating was to eat,
and eat freely. Charley first wondered and
then admired as, perhaps, he had never be-
fore admired a woman.
"1 will not have you slight my wine, Mr.

Wales, it is too good to be neglected," said
the Baronne severely, as Chancy, like the
barbarian he was, ignored the brimming
glass by his plate.
"Your pardon, madame, and your health,
if you will permit me. it is the elixir of the
gods," he added, recoverinoP his wits under
the inspiration of the drau~t.
"Bon! what is the Olympian judgment,
Monsieur Hercules?" cried the lady,
laughing.
"Apollo has said it, madame," replied
Somers; 1 moi, I have had the blessed privi-
lege of former acquaintance with it, and I
drink in tears."
" ('ommeut ce/a? tears!"
"Ay I that I must needs ever drink any
other. My dear Madame Grandoic," he
continued, turning to his vis-is-vis with a
comic solemnity which sent the Baronne
into a spasm of suppressed merriment, "let
me not be outdone by my chivalrous friend.
Madame, your good and continued health.
May you long rejoice in the possession of
those graces which win all hearts and
brighten the existence of all about you!"
Madame acknowledged very graciously
what, being delivered in English, she had
very imperfectly understood.
"Poor mama~a Grandoie," said the Ba-
ronne, in an undertone to Charley, "she al-
ways accepts his nonsense so soberly. But
you have nothing to eat! a bit of this pdte',
will you not? Robert, server ceci is monsieur."
But do you not speak French, Mr. Wales?"
"Sans fa~on, madame, as I was unhap-
py enough to treat your wine," replied Char-
icy, in that tongue.
"Mais / - why, that is excellent; and all
this time you have made me talk in my poor
English I"
"Your English is perfect, madame, as I
am sure is everything you do!"
"Ah, but you should always use the
French, Monsieur Wales," she returned with
an arch smile.
- "Whypray?"
"Because it is the language of compli-
ment, par exce//ence. Monsieur Somers,"
she continued, severely, "why did you not
tell me that Mr. Wales spoke French -
mechant I"
"Dignefemme! I forgot that trifle. But
I told you he was a prodigy, and, fbr aught I
know, he speaks all the known tongues. In
his country they do everything on that mag-
nificent scale. I have heard the infants -"
"Strangle the serpents in their cradles;
n'est ce pas, mon Hercu/e? But the Ameri-
can women are very lovely, are they not,
Monsieur Wales?"
For his life Charley could not repress a
flush, which the Baronne noted with an arch
smile. Somers also saw it, and came to the
rescue.

[

4
e


54                          CHOISY.                                                              SMILES AND EYES.                      55

"Ali! madame, permit me to shelter the
modesty of my friend. With the sole ex-
ceptions of yourself and Madame Grandoie,
the American women are the loveliest in
the world. It is the verdict of the na-
tions."
"Then we poor daughters of France can
hold but a low rank among the attractions of
Paris in your esteem, Mr. Wales," said the
hostess, rather demurely.
"Ma(lame," returned Charley, who had
regained his self-possession with the unob-
serve(l aid of a glass of wine, "Monsieur
Somers deals with a popular but flattering
fiction. 1, who am an American, have only
learned at Paris what beauty in a womaxi
may be!"
&amp;mers experienced a wild desire to
whistle, hut took his wine instead, afl(l
glanceil furtively at the depleted bottle'
at Chancy's side. The latter, as it may
be inferred, was unaware what he was
drinking. Somers could have given him
name and date for a rare vintage of the
Gironde, of which every drop was costly as
a jewel; lie only knew it was some blood-
warming, spirit-stirring draught which filled
his veins with an unwanted fire and in-
spired a ready gayety which preserved him
from any further lapses into confusion. ~I lie
Baronmie experienced the force of this change,
when, after a merry interlude in which her
woman's wit flashed ceaseless repartee to
Somers's ever~ amusing l~avardage, ~vhile it
held Charley in wondering admiration, and
even elicited some mild scintillations from
Madame Grandoic, she returned strategeti-
cally to the charge, and asked him suddenly,
with laughing eyes, "And is there no
.~none mourning her runaway Paris on
some hill in the sunset land?" for Charley,
with unblushing impudence and a bow
worthy of D'Orsay himself, replied, "Ma-
dame, we feel that Paris could have had no
hove before Helen." And the lively Ba-
ronne was herself nonplussed for the mo-
ment by the quick retort and the big lion's-
eyes looking full in her own.
When the gentlemen came away some
time later, Somers seized an instant to
speak to the Baronne.
"Et l'enfhnt'i" lie asked.
"II est gentle, l'enfarmt, mon Hereule."
She had this day a thousand little press-
ing cares of preparation for departure from
t~wn, but she seemed to forget them at that
moment. She stood thoughtfully by the
open window of the drawing-room after her
guests had gone, forgetting even to tantalize
the mite of a terrier who hovered about her
feet, more alarmed than gratified by her
umisual forbearance. Madame Grandoic
looked in nn(l exclaimed, " Que fais-toi?
The landau is waiting, ma cke'rie, and you
are not even dressed."

"lam coming," she answered, turning with
an absent air. Passing the piano, she paused,
and presently pulled out one of the sheets
of music; from a box of crayons on a sido
table she selected one with which she
dashed off, skilfully and rapidly, a cartoon
of a male head, short close-curling hair,
broad forehead, great shaded eyes, droop-
ing mustache, with straggling ends, and the
full, square chin, -- Charley Wales for a
(lucat, as the whole Mayflower Club could
have sworn. The portrait finbhed, she
studied it attentively; one could have seen
the woman's divining, penetrating instinct
all aflame in the eyes which strove to read
the hidden meaning of that pictured face.
It read too Well, - the frank, smiling eyes,
the manly lines of brow and jaw, with a
strange softness irradiating all. Men wore
such faces, she had seen them; but their
hearts -? No, they are only masks, one
anti all of them!
The bewildered Grandoic reappeared at
the door.
"Mais, voyons! petite, it is Ilenriette and
Frederick and time pedicure, and all the
world qui l'attends lou/ours!"
"Bon! I fly, ma vicille."
It was not often that this last expression
of endearment fell on the good woman's
ears; when it did she was wont to retreat
in confusion and seek refuge in her own
apartment, where she would bestow a fur-
tive glance upon herself in the mirror and
shed a few easy tears. She did as much on
this occasion, while the Baronne, pausing to
take a farewell look at her croquis, put it
carefully among the sheets of music, and
went off to Henriette, and pedicure, and" all
the world."
Meantime our Charley, left to himself on
the crowded walk of the Champs Elys~es
by Somers, who had to run away to settling
day at the club, was wenklyfollowing the sug-
gestion of that worthy to "take a stroll, and
see the promenade in its expiring glory; for
you know," he had added, "the court goes to
St. Cloud on Wednesday, and Paris will be
deserted simultaneously by the entire monde."
But though the afternoon ti(le was at its
full, Chiarley wandered absently along, see-
ing only the one face with its ever-laughing,
ever-unfathomable eyes, the long soft tresses,
and tIme white shoulders under the spray of
lace. He trod on a dozen dressess and
made as many unintelbgible apologies, after
which he became suddenly ~nware that lie
was contributing an immense amount of
amusement to a host of promnenaders, and
roused himself sufficiently to jump into a
cab and effect his escape - to the Male-
sherbes. Here he flung himself royally on
a sofa, and experienced something like sur-
prise in the reflection that this was absolute-
ly the first moment of restful solitude he had

had since his arrival at Paris, - the fix
respite in the whirl of that magic life in
which lie had made so sudden an entrauc
A season of thoughtfulness came with
and, going to the secretary, he hunted out
unfinished letter from among a mass of p
pers tossed carelessly therein. He set 01
conscientiously to read it, having forgottc
its contents, but he found the task una
countable tiresome, and after a moment
Iiesitatioii lie added a few hurried lines
the sheet, closed and sealed it, ~tnd wx
scrawling the superscription with a guilt
conscience-stricken look, when the do~
flew open with a crash, and Somers cam
in. lIe had just time to toss the letter in
drawer, and I may as well sketch its subs
quent history. The amiable Somers foun
it there some months later, and read the a~
dress with elevated eyebrows and shrugged
shoulders, after which he enclosed it dutiful
to Mr. Richard Huntley at New York, "V
be handed by him to the interesting 'ad
dressed,' whom, no doubt, lie had the hap
pines to possess on his list of acquaint
ances." Whereat Mr. Iluntley d-d Mi
Somers's "ilnpu(lence," but was nevertheless
glad to possess the enclosure.
"Ah!" cried the new-coiner, "here yoi
are. The vulgar world of the Champ
had no charms for you after the feast che~
the goddess supreme, - eli? You have no'
told me what you think of her, by the way.'
"1 should think there could be only orn
opinion," said Charley, rather coolly; some
how Somers's light speech grated on hh
nerves at the moment.
"No more there can, my dear boy," con~
tinted Somers, detecting instantly lik
friend's irritation, and speaking in a warm
but sober tone, "especially when she beamt
and radiates as she did to-day. It may
sound foolish, but you were favored, Char-
hey. I have seen her an icicle to the best
of them. She 's an enigma, is Nina Choisy,
but as good as gold."
"Nina Choisy?"
"Yes, when we dare be so familiar, far
away, you know. She is 'ha Baronne
Choisy' to the grand world. Did I not tell
you her name
"No, and I wondered ~-"
"And wondered at mSr privileged famil-
iarity, too, probably. Well, she and my
youngest sister were twins in affection at
Madame Gaspard's pension here in Paris.
I made the most of their friendship, and she
is wonderfully good to me. I have been
mon Ilercule some years now, and there
is n't a man in Paris who would n't give his
head for my place in her favor. I don't
mind telling~ you that I have been hopelessly
in love with her since the first hour I saw
her," continued Somers, lighting a cherished
pipe; "bad case of the unrequited, mais,

'st que voulez-vous?" Aud the giant's shru'~
to was a magnified but ridiculously faithful
e. copy of the grimace with which every
it, born Frenchman accompanies that favoi'ite
m phrase. "Ned Somers shall die, and worms
a- shall eat him, but not for love. Would you
at believe it, she flung that identical senti-
a ment at me, like another Rosalind, one day
e. when the fever was on me and I attempted
's the theatrical? I had sat lap all night,
~o smoked a pound of capparal and drank a
is gallon of caf~ noir to aid the effect. She is
~, good to me, though, and it wakes the chival-
)r nc spark. 1 had an ai~cestor who was an
e entire crusade in miniature; his picture
a hangs in the old hall at home, and they say
i- I am like him. Fancy me in penny-mail
d and a buskin I Yet am I not warlike? But
I- I would make a Paynim holocaust any day
d of substituted Frenchmen for Nina Choisy,
y and I think she knows it."
o   Charley was pleased and puzzled by this
1- queer mixture of nonsense and feeling. He
was beginning to like his great man-mastiff
very much, without in any degree pene-
trating his character. Somers, stretched on a
s lounge, puffed silently after his speech; and
Chancy summoned courage to ask what
i was in effect a foolish question, since its
s answer was and had been palpable to him.
Perhaps he struggled still, or hoped blindly
against the truth. "And yet, of course,
she is married, is she not?"
Somers drew in his breath at the words,
and blew a great white cloud slowly into
space before he replied, "Yes, married as
they marry in France; married to a shadow
* whom no one has ever seen, and to some
thousands of acres which furnished the
hush-money required in such contracts. I
I am no student of social ethics, Charley, and
* I am an infant in the moral philosophies;
* but if there is a character on earth I pity,
and for whom I have unquestioning charity,
it is for the Frencliwoman who is wedded
to a rag of law and a chateau, and buried
~alive just as she becomes a woman!"
Somers checked himself abruptly and
sucked his pipe. "We must n't get on
that ground here, though, it 's a mortal of-
fence in Paris and to Paris," he resumed
with new gayety. "Bury the moralities,
mon enfant, or pack your trunks; it is the
philosophy of the time and place!" Where-
upon the speaker rose and laid aside the
exhausted meerschaum, looked at his watch
and yawned like a griffin. "Six o'clock!
We will dine late, i(you are not otherwise
disposed; dress first, a9d drop in comfort-
ably at the opera after our cigars Patti's
last night, and a great squeeze. You will
see everybody, and get a word with our host-
ess of the afternoon in her box, though I
promise you not without a struggle. She
shares with Diva the homage of the house."


56                        CHOISY.                                                        SMILES AKD EYES.                   57

Charley heard the proposition with a
thrill of delight which he neither paused to
analyze nor struggled to repress. He ran
away to his room, and was dressed a full
half-hour before his companion, who smiled
beneath a mask of suap-fuam, when, sus-
pending his ablutions for an instant, he
turned to view the young man radiant in
evening dress.
"Egad! you '11 excuse me, but you are
rather magnificent," spluttered Somers. To
himself, later, screened in a towel that
would have served for a bedspread, he mu
tered, "Deuced little of the Puritan in-
stinct in him!" Once that afternoon the
thought had made him uneasy, but he rea-
soned well and watched closely, did Mon-
sieur Somers, and his conclusion, as above
expressed, was substantially correct. He
had little to fear from an obstruction of
that character in the development of his
plans, - plans that fate was hurrying to
sudden consummation. Already he thought
he saw the end, and smiled at himself in
the glass, and shrugged the elephantine
shoulders as he gave his long, soft whiskers
a last stroke. "3Iais! ce n'est pas moil
it was always Dick Huntley's luck. For-
tune has ever dealt him trumps, only he
would play out of rule."
"What did you say? "asked Charley, in
all innocence, appearing at the door as if
summoned.
"Me? Did I speak? It must have been
to myself, unconsciously. 'There are some
men so loose of soul,' you know, and I was
thinking about Hamilton, ass that he is,
backing his scrubs against the French field.
it must have cost him a nice penny. Are
you ready? Bon! speaking of Hamilton,
suppose we dine at the Maison Dor$e; it
will be convenient."
The Italien was thronged as Charley and
Somers entered somewhat late in the even-
ing. Our hero had puffed away two cigars
very impatiently after their dinner, while
the placid Bohemian calmly finished a single
one. The latter was not blind to the ner-
vous restlessness of the young man; but
he had a lively idea of the crush and heat
that awaited them at the opera, and was
himself in no haste to face the ordeal.
When he did set out, however, it was with
his usual vigorous tactics of advance, and
in those packed lobbies and passages Char-
Icy rather exulted in his irresistible leader-
ship. Isabella, at the feet of her recreant
lover, was filling the air with the glorious
melody of Robert, toi que j'aime, as they
pressed through the crowd and caught the
glittering spectacle of the house, - wave
above wave of rapt faces turned to the
stage, with only the soft ripple of myriad
fans breaking the charm of absolute immo-
bility. in the tumult of the enr'acte they

fought their way valiantly to the box of the
Baronne. It, too, was thronged with ex-
travagantly dressed men, whose presence
was singularly distasteftil to Charley. while
their number was rather discouraging; but
Somers effected access, and Charley fol-
lowed resolutely on his heels, quite igno-
rant of the puzzled and curious regards
which met him on all sides.
"Ah I bon soir, Monsieur Somers, and
Mr. Wales, too, - how delightful I" She
turned half round, and put out her hand to
the dazzled Charley, who took it in its
snowy glove almost timidly, and stumbled
sadly in his words. Struggle as he would,
the old readiness failed him before this wo-
man, and, indeed, the rencontre with the
rosy deity of the afternoon could scarcely
have schooled him for the splendid creature
now before him, in the richest of evening
dress, with bare, white arms and shoulders,
and diamonds flashing from breast and
brow, - flashing blindness and delirium to
his eye and brain.
"Mais, Monsieur Ic Compte, a thousand
pardons! un si vieux ami -" It was the
Baronne' s voice in the sweetest, most be-
seeching tones; and M. le Compte, who was
the happy occupant of the chair behind her,
surrendered the same in angry bewilder-
ment to the smiling Chancy, who lost no
time in taking possession thereof, secretly
enchanted to find himself already an "old
friend."
M. le Compte withdrew in high dudgeon,
followed soon by the others, all equally im-
pressed with the conviction that their pres-
ence was no longer necessary to the situa-
tion.
"Who is the phenomenon, Count?"
asked one.
"Mule diables! how should I know !"
responded that gentleman - a marvellous
conserve of sixty sumiucrs - with much
phlegm
"0, I beg pardon!" laughed the other;
" the grace and readiness with which you
gave him your chair led inc to suppose -"
"Bah! c'est trap fort! Sans doute it is
some distinguished relative from the Bas-
Rhone districts."
"Very likely - to he sure."
A single shadow clung to the name of
Nina Choisy; and, after the manner of
their race, these gentlemen consoled their
wounded hearts by dwelling on and mag-
nif~ing it.
Our two friends, remaining masters of
the field, settled themselves in the coveted
places with perfect contempt of the laws of
succession; Somers paying assiduous court
to the smiling Grandoic, whose miraculous
preservation as displayed in opera costume
was the won~ler of his soul ; Charley lean-
ing over the Baronne and drinking the deep

intoxication of her backward glances, wis
ing the mimic love-story on the stage mig
never end. In the pretty, girlish enthu~
asmn of the Baronne, it is probable there w
much of the actress. Somers, who h~
seen her yawn through the same scene mo
than onc~, thought so, but coupled tI
thought with approval. But upon our we
shipping Charley there came no shadow
suspicion; he was insensible even to tI
most natural consideration that the beaui
before him was and could be no other thi
~      the schooled woman of the world, to who
that glare of light and luxury, that wonde
ul music even, and the listening thousand
werethings worn and old and lifeless. fl
never thought of that; but he exulted
the dewy freshness of the beauty befor
I      him, and the artless insouciance - perfe~
tion of art- in manner and word of it
possessor. It was this childlike innocence
~      which charmed him, and the charm hid th
exception. Poor boy! he worshipped pur:
d and simplicity in a French opera-box
n(l the Bayonne knew it all, and reveille
the knowledge It was something cci
fresh from his breez
ir, standing an unsullied knight-errant a
er chair; but there was yet a germ in he
oman's heart that swelled into delicious
in the presence of this surprise.
it had seemed but a moment to Char
rising and falling of the curtain
y, that sweet dreamy interval of stolen
lances and smiles and whispered words
though it had been a whole, long, fatiguin~
scene for the matchless Adelina, no doubt
He hid sighed unconsciously when the veil
f~dl, awl fancied with a lover's
vanity that tIme Baronne had joined him in
that sentimental expression. Certainly she
I ~ remained pensive and silent while Charley
~ arranged her mantle, which lie did with
trembling hands. Something of the same
feeling seemed to pervade the four as they
lingered a fhw moments in the box, while
e multitude poured out in a slow, im-
peded stream, arid Somers broke a profound
silence when he spoke.
"Woe is me, Alhama! It is desolating
to think thit this fkiry scene, which in ten
minutes will be 'chaos and old night,' is
but the epitome of the Paris of to-morrow.
The world has packed its trunks ~and flies
with the dawn, like the elfin phalanx.
Do you go also to-morrow, Madame la
Baronne?"
"I believe so," she replied, listlessly. She
stole a glance at Charley as she spoke, and
was fairly startled by his changed face.
N'est ce pas, maman?
"Mais aid," responded that amiable fe-
male with responive melancholy. She
measured the march of time too closely not
8

h- to feel sorrow at the end of another season,
l~t but her respect for the conventionalities
51- was superior to every other consideration.
as "After to-morrow, you know," she said,
id "Paris will be quite insupportable."
re Charley seemed paralyzed; twenty un-
ac speakable things surged to his lips, twenty
r- impracticable schemes flitted through his
of brain. Going away? to-morrow? where?
ic He would follow her! Then the flame
by flared out and left a cold gloom. Somers
in had set the example, and, giving his arm to
in the Baronne, Chancy followed the others
r- into the corridor. Neither spoke; the
s, Baronne was waiting, and Charley could
[e not trust his tongue. At last, as the lights
* n grew di miner, he managed to ask timidly,
e "Is it truc that you go away to-morrow?"
"He/as! cci," she answered, briefly. She
~s hung rather heavily on his arm, and looked
e downward persistently, and there was an
e interval of silence.
i-   "Shall you care - very much? you, who
I have known me but a day!"
I The words were almost in the tone of
v badinage, and Charley, who turned to look
y quickly as he~ heard them, met a half-sad,
r half-laughing face. But in her eyes was a
t deep, serious light, - alert, questioning, in-
r tense. Even in the shade he caught it, and
it sobered him, checking some heated
inspiration of the moment. When he an-
- swered, it was soberly, but with undisguised
feeling.
"I shall care; I should like to know
you better."
"lion!" came the response on the in-
stant; "then I will not go!"
I They had reached the portal, and in an-
other minute (Jhanley had handed her into
the coupe and stood uncovered at the door.
She gave him her hand, just an instant, as
* he stood there, anti spoke quick and low,
"lion soir, mon ami; i~ bieat6t!"
Soon! it might as well have been a cen-
tury of waiting for our Charley, who, planted
Jike a statue, gazed after the disappearing
vehicle with his hat in his hand and his
heart in his throat. She had called him
"her friend," her ami; even to Charley's
unschooled ears that word was full of mean-
ing.
Mephistopheles on the trottoir laughed
noiselessly, but immoderately.
"Come, Charley, you go to ear/miner
yourself, standing there in the 'pose num-
ber two.' Aurora will be here with daylight
again, and Chitus need not mourn. So
come down to vulgar things; I am lQnging
for innumerable bocks at Neeser's. A/Ions,
en/ants! Look at that sergeant! He'd
like me to continue that strain ten words
more, and then pounce on me for a moun-
tain of sedition! Shade of Bacehus 1 what
a thirst is mine I

ii


58

CHOISY-.

CHAPTER IX.
MADAME.
THE Baronne Choisy was a star of' the
first magnitude in the fashionable world of
Paris. She was, indeed, more than that;
she was a meteor, and since she had first
flashed upon the social horizon, two years
before, had held a pre-eminent place among
the sisterhood of society's queens. The
coming of the, unknown provincial beauty
had been duly heralded by Madame (~ran-
doie, whose acquaintance we have made.
This lady was the widow of a dignitary of the
last Orleans Court, and a somewhat antique
relic of the old aristocracy of' the Chauss~e
d'Antin. She made the most of her not very
clear claim of ancienne noblesse, and clung to
the boards of' the social stage with a clever
tenaei~ty known only to a Frenehwoman,
securing her position by a certain popu-
larity with the younger class, for whom she
rendered diplomatic services in a variety of
ways; fom' trustworthy instruments of that
character were much in demand in latter-
day Pam'is. 'flie entree of Nina Choisy in
the fashionable arena was a godsend to the
worthy dame; she was a soi-disant relative,
and had been requested by the Baronne
to take the position of ~gis of the new
and elegant hotel in the Avenue de Ia Reine
Hortense. It may be imagined with what
ecstatic joy she assented, and how felici-
tously she trumpeted abroad the intelligence
of Nina's coining, weeks before her arrival.
"Such a dear child!" she cried to her
first victim, la Comtesse Brie'; " she is so
lovely, and so fine. She was here a long
time, you know, at the pension Gaspard,
and would always escape and come to me,
poor child! She could not bear the re-
straint. Ah ! the ingenious illnesses we
invented to gain holidays; they were su-
perb. La paucre che'rie! Monsieur le Baron,
you know, is imbecile, and the poor, dear
Colonel, her father, was killed in the hunt.
Fancy the life for the darling in that heart-
breaking wilderness! Me, I was writing
her forever to come to Paris, and voil~! she
comes. She will capture all the hearts.
Ah! les beaux yeux! I go to tell Madame,
Monsieur le Compte, that she must keep
you un(ler the good guard when my ravish-
in~ prot6qee arrives!"
~Ionsieur le Compte laughed lightly, but
he had been all ears, and, after seeing
Madame Grnndoie to her carriage, he saun-
tered off to the Jockey Club with his news,
and retailed the same in epigrammatic style
to a circle of acquaintances which fringed
an indolent pai'ty at e'carte'. "Prodigy en
route fm'om the districts; projected eclipse
of all the fixed stars and movable planets
generally in the social ~vom Id!"
"Mon Dien, Count, - go the Academy

MADAME.

with your convulsions of nature, and leave
us in peace," cried a player.
"He has pillaged the secrets of the astro-
nomical genius in the Place VendOmne!"
"Spare us the homily of the Piciades, 0
Count ! the lost, the fallemi -
"JAah! it 's only a woman;
see?"                         don't you
Tiens! I thought it was a comet!"
"From where, did you say?"
"'Paris, Lyon et Meditcrran~e,' "laughed
the Count, rallying from the cross-fire his
original remark had drawn upon him.
"Bah! the marrans are not in season, my
good man!"
"A toute sauce, mon cher, so the filet is
prime !
"Hearken to the beast ! I mark the
king. You don't tell us xxho it is."
"Baronne Choisy, - you know the name;
owned all Lyons once, and may yet, for
aught 1 know."
Dead, is n't he, the Baron ? " asked
some one.
"No, but un peu pres, I judge, nothing
left but his stomach !
"Great Epicurus! nothing but stomach!
Baron Choisy, mats blessed of the gods!"
"Are you quite correct in the name,
Monsieur le Compte?" inquired a withered,
painfully preserved old gent fi-om his chair,
- one of those immeasurably antique relics
of society which abound in Paris.
"Monsieur l'Ombi'e, I speak from the
cards," responded the Count with a bow,
while the whole circle turned with instinc-
tive expectation toward the "shade." Nor
did he disappoint them ; he filled the office
of his class with singular fidelity, arid could
disinter the buried histories of half the old
families of France at reasonable notice.
But he chose at the opening to be distress-
ingly succinct. "I knew her as a child;
served with her Thtber, Colonel d'Alen-
court in Afiica - flue nian - killed himself
hunting two years ago - made an odd mar-
riage - peasant-woman or ~omcthimmg - uf-
faire du cxur ai'' h)rOuiiiscd to be hand-
some, but un pert' brute - after her mother
probably."
The listening gentlemen were not to be
put off with these staccato details.
"How do you say?" asked the Count
Bri~, drawing nearer, and offering his jew-
elled snuff-box to the veteran, while the
others gathered quietly about, "peasant-
woina~? a nme~saiiance then?"
Monsieur l'Ombre preserved an exterior
of solemn indifference, but was secretly very
vain of the attention he received; the
amour propre of an octogenarian is the
essence of his existence in wb;mtever direc-
tion it may tum'n, and the venerable "Jock-
ey's" consisted in delving among the bones
of a forgotten past. He dropped his well-

Ii
I

59

read Si~cle upon his knees, and snuffed a statements, though meagre, had cpmite truth-
prodigious amount as he gathered up the fully embodied the history of Nina Choisy,
fragmentary recollections in his mind, and in their general extent contained all
"Yes," he began, reflectively, "a me'sal- that careless, idle Paris wanted to know.
liance, (lecide(lly. It caused some gossip at She had had a peasant mother. She was
the time, I remember; but the Colonel had married to an imbecile. She was very beau-
been ten years in tIme field, and was half tiful and very rich. Boa! one might be
forgotten, and lie was the last one living of amused, perhaps, at the Hotel Choisy! Nor
his name. Then his wife died a year after does it seem essential that a closer view of
marriage, without any 'one ever having seen her life should be given here. The apology
a
her. I never knew the whole story, but it for a woman is not to be sought in the cir-
came about through an accident to the cumstances of her early existence; an in-
Colonel, lie was badly wounded at Mas- dignant world refuses her that plea. And
earn, and in trying to reach home got over- yet it might be told how time motherless gim'l,
turned in his calbche somewhere on time endowed with a nature all passion and
Camargue above Marseilles, -near ArIes, warmth and sunshine, had stifled in the
I think; it was a vile road thirty years ago. heavy atmosphere of her home, and lived a
They had to take him to the nearest house, childhood of alternate storm and brooding
- lie could n't bear removal, - which hap- calm; how every sympathetic feeling died
pencil to be a vimme-dresser's -" out between her and the stern old militaire,
"Wimo had a pretty (laughter, of course," her father, who, repenting in bitterness his
mnterrimpted Count Bik, "and a wom~sn of unhappy marriage as he grew older and felt
ArIes, too! Mon Dicul a Lucr&amp;e, I pre- more keenly the whisper of the world and
sumne, - but to marry her!" the pride of rank, thought of her oMy as
"lie did, however," continued the nar- an alien thing, or a thing, at least, to be
rator, "after lying three months in the smothered quietly into oblivion with all
house; said she Irid saved his life." possible speed. He sent her, in his shame,
"She was well paid; and this was the to the English pension at Paris, and thereby
mother of the notable Baronne?" plunged her into an atmosphere thoroughly
"Yes; she died in chiildbed, I believe, unnatural to a French girl, where her as-
and the Colonel lived a very retired lifii snciations were with the free daughters of
afterwards on his estate. I saw huim once another land and another civilization;
or twice bore at Paris latterly; the girl was where she fed with avidity on the wild ro-
at Madame Gaspard's."                   dancing of' her mates and the ever-abun~
"So, at tIme English school! Voyons, dant, surreptitious literature of the dormi-
Dupray," cried time Count, to one of' the tory, and gathered from it revelations of
bystanders, a (lark-eyed, handsome man, another existence, of a world where there
who was mmeghi~ently attendimug the discourse was freedom and sentiment and untram-
of Monsieur l'Omnbre, "you muust brush up smelled womanhood. Beside that picture of
Bulwer and the Byronie nieamuru~, - you life her own chained and fettert d future
know the style! But how came she to was a hideous thing, and stirred a wild re-
marry the muman of the stomach?" he con- hellion in her soul, when, to crown her hu-
tinrme(l, turnimug to L'Ombre ; "old too, miliation, she was hurried from the school-
is n't lie?"                            room to be married to one she had never
'1As I am, or nearly. It was curious. It seen, of whom, indeed, she had scarcely
was understooui she was to marm'y the son, heam'd the name. The estates of the Baron
and Lycums was tlmuuiderstruck to learn that Choisy joined those of the D'Alcneourts,
she bad capt ured the old man instead." and there was a certain intimacy between
"Time son? not 1l&amp;e Choisy, who blew the Colonel and the old noble, albeit the
out his brains at Baden ?"              latter, a rigid fanatic in his order, had never
"The same."                           ceased to reproach the Compte d'Alencourt
"Parlileu! then it was a choice~ between for the signal error of his youth; for the
time imbecile amid the fool. 1 commend her Baron, like his neighbor, had an only child,
selection!"                             a son, and the union of the families, had
"Very good of the young one to take it heen possible, would have been "so ad-
himself out of the way too, so qmmiethy." mirable." But to the daughter of the peas-
"Faughm! what a gredin he was! Did ant-woman ? - a Choisy! Ah, no I and the
you kmmo~v bun? lie had spent a million on old soldier could only sit silent in his bit-
Baden and Ia Joneuse Russe!" Iciness. But Choisyfils, scion of a line of
"Yes, I remnemmiber something of him; nobles as he was, was not a character
not a nice party. Comae, Count, cent du worthy of special admiration. We have
picquet before dinner,                  heard him called "Beast" in a circle of or-
And the circle about Monsieur 1 'Ombre, dinarily lenient judges, and he fully de-
having exhausted the oracle, left that yen- served the name. To what dire extreme
craNe sour to solitary meditations. His he carried his gay career need not be in-

I


60

CHOISY.

quired; but some grave contingency arose
which had the remarkable effect of bring-
ing the old Baron in desperation to the
astonished Colonel with a proposal for the
immediate alliance of their offspring. The
paysanne-m~re was ignored, nor was the
young man's character discussed; only the
message went to Paris, and Nina was
brought home to take for her husband the
Beast. This passage of her life may well
be curtained from view; it was such a mad,
despairing struggle of the woman's heart as
we should only shudder to read of, and we
might err in reading it, and pity her. There
was no escape; none but the one that even
frenzy shrinks from, though she thought of
it more than once. But imer strength re-
fused it, and she was strong. Who knows?
The old Roman blood ran in her veins, as
it had come down warm and unsullied
through the ages to the woman of ArIes, -
the blood it might be of a Lucretia, as
Count Brid had said in jest; burning for
good or evil, but burning fierce and strong.
Must she wed with this stained brute?
There was an alternative, it was not sodiffi-
cult to secure, - she was so young, so beau-
tiful, so resistless in her intuitive coquetry!
With a sort of mad ingenuity she grasped
her fate and steeled her heart to the sacri-
fice, and the world opened its sleepy eyes,
and laughed brutally at the diplomacy of
the school-girl, when it was known that she
had married the old Baron and left the
Beast to curse upon the doorstep.
A personage who had been a silent mem-
ber of the company which surrounded the
veracious L'Ombre was especially interested
in that gentleman's account of the Baronne
Choisy, and afterwards went to considerable
trouble among divers old memoranda in the
evening seclusion of his own chamber, the
result of which investigation was something
like a grunt of ~atisfacsion, the indolent ex-
tension of two colossal legs over an adja-
cent chair, and a soliloquy to this effect:
"Same party, as I fancied, - Flo's old
arnie at Madame Gaspard's. Nina d'Alen-
court, - pretty name! Peasant-mother,
humph I - sick man - half of Lyons I -
must look in there for old acquaintance, -
'should old acquaintance be forgot?"'
And with these last words feebly indi-
cating a musical intention, our worthy
friend, Monsieur Somers, at whom we are
taking a glance some two years previous to
the date of our story, drowsed off comfort-
ably on his impromptu couch.
Nina Choisy had been married three
years when she burst upon the world at
Paris. Tragic events had marked the time
for her in congenial unison with the angry
tempest in her soul. From the very day of
his marriage the Baron, like the rash priest
of the temple, who wooed the goddess, sank

into a mumbling oblivion; the wretched
profligate son cut short his career by his
own insane hand; and her father, the Colo-
nel, had killed himself in the chase. She
was little moved by this series of fatalities.
She only breathed more freely after them,
and planned a future of her own, hugging
each day more passionately the old girl-
dream, shapeless, intangible, but living,-
a shadow of the ideal. A strange charac-
ter was formed in this woman, or, better, a
character strangely deformed. Crushed,
sacrificed as she was, with all the maiden
whiteness blotted from her soul; reckless,
and ready for any means to gain her end, -
that end was still the old, sweet desire of
her best days; the haunting vision of a
love, pure, perfect, stainless, and all her
own. She was one of a class; and can we
not fancy how Judith and Beatrice and
Charlotte Corday would have loved?
Her entree at Paris was a triumph. The
gay coterie gathered in idle curiosity ad-
mired, wondered, and lingered in a spell.
The men found something in her that was
not to be explained, but which thrilled and
held them captive al her feet; and some,
who had built their pretty schemes on the
fancied assailability of the provincial wife,
were left to puzzle over the well-poised
woman of the world, who stepped from the
shadows of the distant chateau, like Palms
from the brain of Jove, armed and equipped
for the strife. It was an ordeal of fire, raging
and fierce, that she had to pass; but she
came through it bravely and unscathed,
and her first season left her victorious and
triumphant, a reine du monde, of whom
Paris spoke in admiration and, what was
rarer, with respect. She formed naturally
her circle of chosen friends, and among
these figured no less a dignitary than our
giant of memoranda and dreams, M. Som-
ers.
I have said that he was a handsome and
attractive man, and the reader has, perhaps,
divined that he could be pleasant and win-
ning in his way. I may add now that he
possessed the additional advantage of good
family, and held unquestioned position at
Paris as an independent and reputable gen-
tleman. Not a few of his countrymen made
their home in the French capital in those
days, many of them of high caste, and their
society was much courted in that peculiarly
mixed aristocracy where the title was not
always strengthened with age, or even sup-
ported by attest, and where the genuine
article had an exaggerated value. Edward
Somers, albeit not of actual blue-blood ex-
traction, hailed from an eligible environ of
May Fair. His elder brother had been
knighted for distinguished services in her
Majesty's Parliament, and the family was
an old and wealthy one. There were peo-

4
4
,1
4
4
4
10
4
4
4
I
4
4
4
4
4
4
K

pIe, indeed, of that impracticable class
which afflicts all lands and races, who hinted
at unpleasant passages in Mr. Somers's lifi~
of long anterior date, and the whisper was
heard, and perhaps remembered, but had
never brought any damage to the subject
thereof. Englishmen, visiting Englishmen,
as a rule, "did not know" Mr. Somers.
"Brother to Sir Robert? Awl indeed, was
not aware Sir Robert had a brother; un-
fortunate estrangement, perhaps." Where-
upon Mr. Edward would be dropped with
no particular d:smage to himself. He was
not extravagant in his living, and made no
debts, at least none that could be talked
about, and he was very clever in sporting
matters, and immensely popular at the
Jockey Club. He was scarcely less popu-
lar in the social world, where there lacked
no smiles for thu splendid lion d'Angleterre,
as he was not infrequently called; and he
had experienced no difficulty in obtaining
the entire at the Hotel Choisy.
For the rest, it would scarcely have been
our Monsieur Somers had he failed to push
his way into pleasant friendliness with the
Baronne. Of course, she "remembered the
darling Florence, - was she married? - and
she was so pleased to know her brother;
now that she recalled his sister's face more
clearly, there was much resemblance." And
he was charme(l, as all had been befot'e him,
and as all continued to be who came after.
He was not without certain pretensions of
his own as a man of conquests, moreover,
and in his secret soul there had ever lin-
gered a consoling faith in events which
were, some bright day, destined to conduct
his aimless bark into a haven of affluence
and ease. More than once had the possible
agent of this delightful consummation taken
shape in the person of some new fair one
dawning on the horizon of his acquaintance;
and though doomed to repeated disappoint-
ment, the hope burned brightly to the last
upon the altar of his heart. It blazed into
a more brilliant glow than ever when he en-
countered the Baronne, but never was the
illusion so short-lived ; his passion subsided
instantly again to the sober warmth of trust
and expectation: for h~was very wise and
quick-sighted, ~vas Edward Somers, possess-
ing an alert faculty under the free and I
lightsome exterior that the world reeked
not of, and his wisdom lent him eyes. He
was very devoted to the Baronne, and she
grew to like him immensely, called him her I
Hercule soumis, and enrolled him among
the privileged souls who enjoyed a certain
intimacy at the now famous hotel in the
Avenue de Ia Remne Ilortense.
Once, at one of those delightful dejeuners
iflhimes at which Somers was a favored par-
ticipator, there occurred an incident. The I
Occasion was marked by the introduction ~

MADAME.                        61

of a new assailant upon the arena where so
many had contested for the high prize of the
Baronne's smiles. This was a nobleman of
certain celebrity; they called him Camours
at the clubs, though we have heard him
addressed by his correct name by Count
Brid, some pages back. He came at the
eleventh hour, like the tardy knight in ro-
mance who enters the lists when the read-
er's patience is at the ebb; he was the last
of the irresistiblees" and Somers watched
the encounter closely. He saw the Ba-
ronne's eye take rapid measure of the man;
it was just one quick, flashing glance,
questioning, critical, infallible; but what
another might not have seen Somers saw, a
vague, far-away shade of expectancy, al-
most of longing, followed by the droop of
disappointment, - the look of one who seeks
a lost face iii a throng of faces and cannot
tln(l it. Scores, almost hundreds of times,
he had caught that momentary expression;
he had even seen it pass over her face at
his own presentation to her, and in tiniQ he
had mastered the thought beneath it.
He was standing by her alone later that
morning, when the party, which was quite
numerous, bad returned to the drawing-room.
'fbey were at an Ol)Cfl window, where the
early roses strayed in at their feet, and she
was teasing the miniature terrier, pushing
him in amon~ the thorns as often as he
struo'rrlcd out et submission to lick
the tiny foot that wrought his woes. There
had been a season of silence, broken only
by her fits of merry laughter at the unhappy
dog, until Somers spoke in a low, peculiar
tone, 'Another, -and not he!" The little
foot paused half-way in its campaign against
the terrier, and she looked up, puzzlemi and
startled, with the faintest possible flush on
her face; the bi~ blu
smihin~r met here' e eyes, half sad, half
own, and he added in the
same tone, "Mcii em~/in! couraqe! He is
in the world, and he will come!"
She looked away into the garden an in-
s~tant, and felt how little she knew this great
woman-faced man with his surface-manner
of unconscious bonhomie and all that subtle-
ty below. But she liked him; there was
such an atmosphere of strength and protec-
tion about him, and she hoped he could be
~ood as she believed him, to be a gentleman
and somehow, it disturbed her very little to
Find he had read her secret. The hesi-
bation was only momentary; she caught
[mis hand and pressed it, an(l smile(l in his
~yes, like a tiustin~g girl. How marvelously
roung she kept that face l
"Allons! mon ami, we shall always be
uch good friends, - n'est ce pci?"
Then she ran away and joine(l her com-
rnny, while the man, who of all men in
B'aris at that moment was the best satisfied
vith himself, remained at the window and


62                           CI4OISY.

smiled on the vernal scene without. It may
be added that 1mb conduct that evening in
the privacy of his chamber was the reverse
of that which we noted on a previous soin-
nolent occasion; it verged, in fret, on the
acrobatic, - so closely, indeed, that a gentle-
man of sedate and studious turn of mnind,
who occupied apartments directly below
those of Mr. Somers, abandoned time mid-
night lanip in despair, and, being of disposi-
tion averse to complaint, sought, rather, to
escape tIme infliction by a promenade upon
the Boulevards at an hour when for gentle-
men of setlate and respectable character
that glittering thoroughfare was one en-
vironed by manifold perils.
From that (lay it was noticed that the
Baronne accorded a certain delicate famil-
iarity to her blond hercules, who knew its
value and guarded it accordingly; and it
was no deti-inment to Monsieur Somers in his
world of acquaintance to have gained the
recognized title to something like a brother-
ly privilege at the Hotel Choisy.
Nina's secon(l season was, if possible, more
brilliant than her first; she was more fasci-
nating, lovelier, and more unapproachable
than before: and the men raved, while time
women applauded, and each with an equal,
though secret bitterness. Somers was glo-
rifled, and held his post with the spotless
fidelity of the Pompeiian, revelling in his
privileges, m~nd watching anxiously and un-
easily for that "coming man." But the
great myth, the ideal, came not and
while our noble guardsman rejoiced, Nina,
in her soul, lost much of the wild, unspoken
hope which had so long animated and sus-
tained her. She grew very weary with the
long wimiter of ceastiess and unmeaning
gayety, and hailed the semi-repose of the
Lenten days with a sigh of relief: She had
coveted this restless life, not so much for
any charm of its own, but as the vantage-
ground whereon her life-scheme might
achieve its dear result. She met its perils,
breathed its poisons, and shared its strug-
gles with imidifferenee; but it wearied her
in the en(l, an(l it had bruised her some-
times so that now slme loved it not, and re-
proached it for the disappointments it had
borne her. The color was slowly fading,
too, from that old, never-to-be-realized
dream.
"Dites-moi, Hercule," she cried, leaning
her chin on her hands and looking vexed,
half desperate, but more beautiful in her
impatient abandon than ever a graceless
daughter of earth had looked before; "on
done est mon Ulysse?"
Somers was omily human; with all his
easy control he was often enough near play-
ing the lbol with this siren, and he was
never nearer than on this occasion. But
he checked himself bravely, and answered

in mock-melancholy, "Helas! madame, if
it is to be Ulysses! The poor man was
twenty years en route!"
"Mon Dieu! Merci - la pauvre Penelo-
pe! Me, I abandon Ulysses; he is mag-
nificent, tacit ii coyage ~si doucement!
The spring passed away, and Nina still
lingered at Paris. Never had she so dread-
ed and shrunk from the return to the cha-
teau, and there were not lacking pleading
voices to persuade her to remain in the
gay city. So she stayed even to the close,
fixing her departure for the day following
the Grand P-ix. it was almost by accident
that she had done this, as it was by acci-
dent that from her carriage she had noted
the new face by Somers's shoulder, and
flashed surprise and confusion on it with her
wonderful gray eyes. It had not precisely
charmed her on the spot, this young hand-
some face of our Chai-ley; but she liked it,
and found time, amid all the demands upon
her attention, to give the order to Somers
that we heard.
When she had seen him, looked him
through and through, and read him as she
could so easily do, she liked 1dm better.
Indeed, the fever that possessed the young
man called forth something like an answer-
ing flush in the woman's hca-t; it had
stolen in silently and insidiously, and she
never knew it till it was there. Then she
grasped the thought, and hugged it with the
fist strength of a passion that might grow
into delirium. He was only a boy; there
were moments ~vhen she would have called
him a child; but there was the unbroken
bloom of his young manhood upon him, cool
and fresh as water from tIme spring to her
thirsting heart. It was a-cry sweet to turn
from that exotic life with its heated, arid
glow and sickly odors, its false flowers and
flilser faces, and revel in the new, the al-
most unknown, atmosphere that clung about
his glorious youth, to read truth and feeling
undisguised in his face, to see a fiist strong
passion gathering in the lion's C) cal Was
it her dream? She could not remember
what she had dreamed; she was conscious
only of the long-coming fire in her blood,
and the tardy illumination of that shaded
corner of her heart, and she was supi-emely
content.
And he had known her, site had known
him, but a day l
CHAPTER X.
CALLING~at his banker's on the morning
after the opera, Charley found a packet
of letters fmom home, and among them one
from his cousin, which, glancii~~ at it with a

a
I
J
I
I

"LIE."                                  63
sick, guilty feeling hi his heart, he put away the first inspiriting impulse which ushered
unopened in ins pocket. As if to neutral- him bravely and even confidently into the
ize the twinge of conscience the sight of room, he experienced a sombre reaction~ a
the one missive had occasioned, there was depressing sense of his own insignificance,
another from lluntley full of congenial sug- which was not lessened when he caught
gcstiuns and agreeable thoughts. The bro- sight of Nina afar oW splendid in flashing
ker ha(1 calculated nicely on reaching silk and serpentine train, the queenly ruler
Charley in this letter just when the glamour of all this glittering throng. lie had lost
of Paris life had ihIlen upon the young man, Somers, and in h~s embarrassment was tak-
and his epistle was a very skilful " Tally ing the wall, when the Baronne, whose quick
ho l" indeed: " I shall be disgusted with eye had caught the tall figure soon enough,
you if you come home having done Paris made her way to him and ivarumed his
after the mwmnncr of a summer tourist whose heart with her rare smile. She was so
impressions are embodied in a cab-ride to grand, so gloriously beautiful, so Juno-
the Bois, a /~/e night at Mabille, and the like in her robes of state and among her
daily rubbish of a table d'hote. Your op- subjects, that poor Charley fhltercd again,
portunities are better (especially if, as I as it seemed his fate ever to do in these
trust is the case, you have looked up Ned first moments Qf their meetings. She could
Somers and put yourself under his wing), only stay a moment, and Sai(l so, adding, "It
and you are sulliciently intelligent to know is very good of you to come with all these
what I nevertheless take the liberty to tell dear friends who are here to say farewell
you, that the Paris of to-day is unique in before I go. What a (lelightiully larg~
our age, that you enter its gates to behold number I have, have n't I?"
the marvel of civilization where the cream Charley looked alarmed at the word
of the earth is gathered and made contribu- "go," but the glance, half serious, half mis-
tive to every department of its luxurious chievous, reassured him.
life. The ebb is inevitable; what you see, "There, I can't stay," she continued,
the man of twenty, perhaps ten, years hence quickly; "hut remember, I shall lose my
will only read ot C'arpe diem! and don't character for remaining a day beyond the
let those sudden scruples I gather from your prescribed limits at Paris ; how am I to be
last - and which as a friend and an 'older consoled in my solitude, monsieur?
soldier' I am going to discuss with you in Charley's heart leaped.
their turn prevent you from looking "May I - shall I come?" he asked cx-
through Paris to the bone. Your wise re- citedly, while the Baronne glanced about to
solves will keep to bring home, and they see if his dramatic ensemble had drawn
will only be dead weight to you there," - upon him curious scrutiny~ Then she made
and so ibrth, through eight pages. If Mr. just the faintest little rnoue at him ; she was
Huntley had known how beautifully en Juno no longer, only the girl-goddess of
train in the precise direction of his, Mr. that first memorable afternoon. "Shall you
Ihuntley's, wishes these lines would find our cumc?" the raoae meant; do I not stay
Charley, it is probable he would have spare(l for you? Cruel !"
himself the trouble of constructing the elab- Then she laughed a low musical laugh
orate exhortation of which I have given a like some flitting bird's song, and glided
sample; but the message still operated fa- away; paused, and turne(l back an instant
vorably to the writer's general plans, since to him still standing mute and transfixed.
it soothe(l a rising compunction or two She looked just a trifle malicious.
which the simple exterior of another letter " Ma is, Monsieur Wales, would you
had stirred, and was altogether a vehicle of ~iot like to know some of these beautiful
encouragement and cheer. It was read ladies ?"
word for word on its receipt, and after- The look of dismay on Charley's free
war(ls reproduced at breakfast and reread provoked a second silver laugh- then
she
in part to Somers with continued enjoy- left him. The world sui-ged between them,
ment, that gentleman sharing the same while Charley lingered a moment, following
with e'clat. lie too, singular to note, her with his eyes, nfl(l feeling like a king
had received a letter by the same mail amid the hosts he had thought so formida-
from the same individual, but he did not ble a little time before. Certain grand
think it necessary to mention the fact. dames noted the eyes with high approval,
The gentlemen made their "call of and sailed by him with very kindly glances;
digestion" in the afternoon at the Hotel but it is doubtful if he saw them; the single
Choisy. TIme Baronne was holding her gaze he caught and noticed was the fierce,
farewell lem-e'e, and all the world, migratory inquiring one of a gentleman opposite, whose
and otherwise, was there making its adiens. mustache, waxed to desperation, drew his
The salon was a tumult of richly dressed lip tightly across his teeth, and gave him a
people, and Chancy felt rather overpow- peculiarly savage aspect. Cliarley expeni-.
ered by his surroundings. Indeed, after enced a convulsive desire to laugh as he


64

CHOISY.

recognized "Monsieur le Compte" of the
opera-box.
Somers signalled him at the moment, and
the two friends met in the hall.
"What a jam I" cried the Bohemian.
"I could n't get a word with the Baronne;
but I saw the 'evergreen'" (such was his
irreverent designation of Madame Gr4n-
doic), "and it seems she is not going away
immediately."
"I believe not," returned Charley, dryly.
"The gods be praised!" echoed Somers,
who, if he noticed the young man's manner,
evidently bore no i resentment. "What
shall we do till dinner-time?"
"I am indifferent; something quiet.
Let 's drive."
"Ban! we might look in, though, at the
salon, - the art exhibition, you knbw, at the
Palais de l'Industrie. There 's an acre or
two of nude studies; an unusual number,
and it has given rise to a curious whisper in
the city which says they are portraits, the
last freak of haul tan. It is tedious, how-
ever, and there 's nothing else there; a
drive be it."
They coursed out the Champs and looked
in a moment at the Hippodrome, where a
blooming bevy of gini-jockies were riding
absurd raee&amp; on bicycles, after which they
made a turn in the Wood, emerging at the
Porte Maillot. It was an entertaining round,
but Charley sat through it in dreamy si-
lence, smoking innumerable cigars and
drinking his glass of beer at the Cascade in
blissful ignorance of its inferiority. His
preoccupation was not unobserved by his
companion, who smiled to himself and re-
spectemi it; and it was with a start that
Chamley awoke at the gate in the twilight,
where they got out and went in to dine
fuori le mura.
Strolling down the Capucines, later,
Charley stopped at one of the pretty flower-
shops and or(lered a bouquet forwarded to
the Hotel Choisy~ overwhelming the smiling
Ceres with a hundred-franc note.
"Alan Dieu! merci bica, monsieur! It is
a great price. I will do my possible - un
grand jali panier dora, with the camellia, the
jasmine, les tub6-euses, les flours d'arange. I
trust, monsieur, he will he pleased."
"By Jove! my nmagtnjlco, there will be a
feast in Clichy to-night, and your health
drunk a mile deep in great flagons of Bar-
delais! Will you comae down to the club?
I must look in there a moment."
Charley begged off, and sought his quar-
ters; lie could brook no distraction from his
fond thoughts. The rosy concierge met
him in the court with an air of great mys-
tery and importance, and slipped a tiny note
in his hand, which he took breathlessly, and
sped up stairs, madame of the candles
smiling after him approvingly. The mis-

sive was a crested one, and had come in
due state, borne by no less a personage than
a livened marvel of silence and discretion;
and that was as it should be. Madame was
a reader of Dumas, - qui sait? the court
itself might have its quota of distressed
beauty, as in days of old, and cc cher Man-
sicur Vales, - was he not a D'Artagnan?
Charley devoured the note with hungry
eyes in the solitude of his chamber; it was
not a lengthy feast, -
"The good Hercules will have affaires,
sans doute, to-morrow, at three!" was all
it said, and an airy "N" was its signature.
It need scarcely ha~e puzzled our Cliarley;
the obscurity of lovers' messages should be
as radiant daylight to lovers' eyes, read as
they may to the unconcerned. W therefore,
then, did the youth read it a score of times?
wherefore, indeed, after putting it away
jealously in isis bosom-pocket, and flinging
himself upon a sofa to dream sweet dreams,
must he needs start upright again, ravish it
from its hiding-place, and read it half a
score times more? The gentle, sympa-
thetic reader can solve the problem perhaps
better than I could.
When Somers came in later, he found
the youth stretched out in luxurious aban-
don on the sofa, encase(l in a crimson dress-
ing.gown, an~l fairly floating in smoke; the
effect by gaslight was highly dramatic.
"Diable des ~Etnas! how you sons of
freedom do smoke!" cried Somers, divest-
ing himself of his coat, and regarding
Charley with serious eyes; "your daily
portion of tobacco would shake me up,
Charley, and I 'm no chicken. I must look
after you, you know, - vans voila garde'!"
The speaker busied himself the while at
the sideboard, which particular feature of
their mae'image, he had taken good care to
have a model of its kind. He got out
glasses and water and a mystic caraft, small
in size but ominous in appearance, from
which he poured a clear, greenish liquor
into the two goblets, and by gradual and
regulated additions of water transformed
the whole into a milky, misty niixture that
curled and wreathed itself like the genii-
smoke. Charley watched the process with
lazy eyes, and thought of Joe Jefferson
"~mixing cobblers" at Laura's Keene's be-
fore "Schneider" was "mein tog" by a
handful of years.
"What the deuce is that?" he asked.
"The undiscovered elixir, my boy, what
the good people scold a~, and what the
Frenchmen, who know no medium, make a
poison of; but for men of discretion and
sense like you and me, ~ho can use it with
intelligence, veritable drops from Hehe's cup.
Drink, and be happy. Seriously, it is what
you need after all that nicotine; you shall sleep
like a babe and dream of angels after it."

a

~iAL.                                  65
~ want to be angel,"' sang Chancy, cry, and long-drawn, unmusical renderings
with a laugh, as he took the profli~red glass; of" Frais- s-es!" "Des bonnes cer-z-
"abszatlte, is n't it ?" ses!" and twenty other garden products,
"The same, an(l the best-abused blessing filled the outer air with uproar. 11e peeped
of the age; there 's not its equal in the into Somers's apartment just when that
pharmacopo~ia for the balmy refreshment worthy, whose agreeable slumbers had been
of body and brain. It '5 a spiritual draught, disturbed by a ray of encroaching sunlight
the dew of sleep; and 'no coma,' as they falling athwart his nose, was helplessly eon-
say in the schools." sidering the discouraging distance that in-
Mr. Somers continued this amiable strain, tervened between the window-curtain and
while Chancy sipped the drug, and undei' his bed. Somers regarded the young man
its subtle influence warmed into a rather in sleepy astonishment.
unwanted flow of words. He had kept his "Eli! what? I say, you 'ye made a mis-
counsel so well, that afternoon, that the take! I ought to have told you that when
weakness was rather lamentable; but then you hear those infernal women shrieking
absinthe is a wonderful "refreshment," as outside, it is time for honest people to be
Mr. Somers had remarked, but as Charley asleep. Just draw that curtain together,
had not fully understood. The gentlemen that 's a good fellow, and go back to bed."
shared a free interchange of ideas after the Whereupon he rolled over like an earth-
evening's indulgence. Charley was enthu- quake in miniature, and presented an cx-
siastic and confidential, and his friend pause of back that Atlas might have envied.
smiling and sympathetic; but when the Charley went back and rang for his cof~
latter, with a touch of diplomacy that fee, tried a temporary siesta on his loungO
smacked little of absinthe, made some cau- without success, and finally took to pacing
tious casts of his own, and endeavored to his room. He seemed quite unsettled~
lead the conversation in the region of cer- whether because there is "coma" after ab.-
tam anterior events, the younger suddenly sinthe, or because other disturbing inflim-
put a check on his tongue, and went off ences were at work upon him. Somers
incontinently to bed. The fact was, Mr. heard the nervous tramp, and was niore
Somers labored at a distressing disadvan- distressed by it than he had been by the
tage with certain disconnected theories intrusive sunshine, for he wheeled up in
respecting his friend Mr. Wales in Paris, his bed, and listened.
and his friend Mr. Huntley in New York, "That won't do! why could n't the
and was possessed with an almost inordi- youngster sleep?" And he glanced down
nate desire to be more fully enlightened on along the inviting lines of his couch re-
the subject of their rather singular connec- gretfully as he spoke. Five minutes later
tion. He was obliged, however, to make he came into Charley's room in a grotesque
the best of his knowledge, meagre as it was, demi - toilet, and dropped on the lounge
having, in legal phrase, "taken nothing by with a woebegone countenance that sent
his motion," made under cover of absinthe, the young man into a roar. "0, you may
and he did so philosophically. So little laugh, you sleepless prodigy, but it 's no
affected was he by the potation from the joke to a man of my years and complexion
mysterious carafe, that he filled his vener~ to have these rare hours of morning rest
ble and gigantic meerschaum, which seemed made hideous by a hot sun, and roaring
to have been made to "match" its pro- huckster-women, and pastoral youths who
prietor, and puffed it industriously for more rise with the lark. XVhy, it's the last glass
than an hour over the construction of a letter ip the bottle, this dreamy matinal time, rich
to "My dear Dick." He did not close the with the 'bee's wino' of 'pence on earth
epistle at the time, but added a last para- and good-will to inca,' to nous autres who'
graph to the effect that certain events have solved the problem of existence, and
would probably "eclaler to-morrow," and know that we may enjoy it only by forget-
that he should "chronicle the denouement ting it! Comet up the coffee, par esemple 7 '~
with the complacent satisfaction of the "It do," responded Charley, who had
faithful servant who had executed his orders nothing for it now but to sit convtmlsed
with neatness and despatch!" while Somers rattled on in a vein of more
"Devilish little I had to do with it!" than usual extravagance. If, as perhaps
exclaimed the rather tired gentleman with the sympathetic Somers suspected, there
a yawn, as he put the written sheets away; led been shadows chasing each other
"tent rnieux! if Huntley's turn is served, through Charley's awakening dreams when
and he does the handsome as he knows how "with the morning" had come "the light,"
to do. Va le coucher! gentle Edward, they were pretty effectually dissipated, as
smiling Fortune attends thee still I" Somers intended they should be, over that
Charley was stirring at a small hour in hilarious cup of coffee.
the morning; the early world of peripatetic "I have a line from Vasour," he said to
commerce was abroad in the streets in full Chancy, when, somewhat later, he appeared
9


66                                 CHOISY.
in street dress, "begging us to breakfast
with him at Carroza's. You are agreeable,
I suppose; he will feel slighted if we neglect
him.''
"I don't knoW," began Chancy, dubious-
ly, and looking at his watch; a habit which
had become chronic this particular morn-
ing.
"0, it 's quite informal; you '11 be free
by two o'clock at the latest; that will an-
swer for your engigeinent, will it not? You
told me that you had one last night, you
know."
"I believe I did," said Charley, in a
vexed tone, "and all my fimmily history in
addition. I hope you found it entertaining!
As you love iiie, old fellow, don't ask mae to
drink any more of that poison; my sleep af-.
ter it was a sequence of painful interviews
with the whole line of my ancestors !"
" Va doncl it was the turbot at the Porte
Maillot; I told you not to eat it. It amuses
me to hear you fellows from the other side
rail at our tune-honored conipounds after
your lmomiie-schooling on - what do you call
it? 'Bourbon wlihkey!' Thirne! I had
some once, disguised with mint and bitter
almond and called a 'julep'; it was at
Peter's with a party of' your compatriots.
What a head I had after it, to say nothing
of my organs! Do you call it 'Bourbon'
because of its murderous qualities?"
"Question de qoflt!" laughed Charley;
"but I should ht~rdly have thought you so
susceptible."
"Helus, arni ~ moi, you may say 'suscep-
tibility, thy name is Somers,' in general ap-
plication to all the alluring fuiblesses which
assail ,oun frail mortality! But en route!
we shall not be any too pronipt at the
Pahais Royal."
When Charley, punctual to the moment,
as may be imagined, presented himself at
the Baronne's, he was received with marked
empressement by a venerable gentleman in
house livery, who returned to him in the
drawing-room after delivering his card, and
begged that monsieur would follow him up
~stairs. It was only to what in French par-
lance is the "first story"; the ls6tel did not
boast an entresol, and the Baronne herself
met him at the stair landing and ushered
.him into the broad doors of an upper salon.
"Ban jour! Mr. Wales, you will pardon,
me for receiving you suns fufon, anti in the
me'nugerie- Va-I-en!. Tutu,- rne'cluunt cliien!
- but I am really not myself to-day, and the
drawing-rootn is such a Saba~'a 1"
Neither the rn~nugerie nor the mistress
thereof called fun apology, he thought,
as he followed her with a 'beating heart;
the first was a little heaven of luxurious ap-
pointments, and the latter in a dress of
snowy muslin turned up at the wni4s with
long, pointed cuffs, and down at the neck

with a wide sailor-boy collar, was too
charming for criticism. It was an odd cos-
tume, odd for her in its girlish simplicity,
and she had laughed gayly that morning as
she buttoned on her cuiTh before time mirror
at the petite pensioonaire, and grown sud-
denly sober, afterwards, to see how little
changed in all the years was time Nina
tl'Alencourt of' Madame Gaspard's. Ah,
the subtlety of a wolimami's dress ! Nina had
not paused to definee the impulse which gov-
erned her choice that day, anti sent hen
back to the winsome school-girl, all inno-
cence and momnanee ~mnd tlrcamns, of' six years
agone. If it had seemed to her something
of' a disguise, she overshot mIme mark, for it
pleased without blinding time e~ es for which
it was intentled. A trace only of the regal
woman of the opera appeared where the
cuff clasped time wrist an(l where the wide
collar dipped in front anti showed a little
chain, circling tIme full thin-oat like a thread
of gold, and supporting some treasured talis-
man on her heart (lie wondered with a
little jealous spasm what it might he) ; but
he saw the " form wimhiimi " alt the sanme
the smooth, bare shoulders and the snowy
neck and breast with its burden of flashing
jewels, as he had seen it that night in lien
box at the Itahien; and it was thins he should
even remember hem-, cs in soiiie one dress
more than any other we all recall the wo-
mmmcmi wimo have mimarked our lives, lie was
wonderfully pleased with lien, though in
this guise; he had never felt so little g&amp;me'
by her superb beauty; and as she tumbled
the unhappy Tutu on his back in lien pretty
childish impatience, and flashed lien white
foot before his eyes, encased but uncovered
in the how-cut graceful slipper of the day,
the impulse was strong within him to catch
hen up hike a child amid toss her to his lips.
But he only looked sympathetic, and was
"desolated" to learn she was "not her-
self."
0, 1 'm not ill," she said, petulantly,
and then paused to add in a hmalf~mnelan-
chohy tone, "though I often wish I might
be, just fbr time change. I am glad yomm
came. I want sonme one to talk to death
this afternoon, some one sympathizing amid
good as I think you are. Do you mind lie-
ing talked to death?"
"By you? Life has no charm beside
such a fate, madatrie!" cried Charley, gal-
lantly, though with too much feeling for a
gallant.
"Ah! Mr. Wales, you, too, speak the
language of the world when you like. If I
measured you by that speech I would not
have you in my sanetmun to-day. Venez!
you must sit there in that little fauteuil, and
I shall sit here where I can st e in those hig
eyes if you are time true knight suns peur ~em
suns ~'eprocke that I have thought you to be."

66

CHOISY.

it
4
it
it
it

67
A little puzzled but very happy, Charley  "Paut're lwmme!" laughed Chancy;
did as he was bid, and lowered himself as "eveii he, wrapt up in the gloomy sciences,
gracefully as he c~u1d into the fauteu ii; he could not resist you!"
found it the essence of comfort too, though  She did not join the laugh, and he fal-
the Baronne laughed gayly at his temporary tered again beneath the steady gaze. "Now
embarrassment with his legs, as she fell into I wish to know what ~ou have been doing
the soft corner of a canape' opposite and ever since you came to Paris, one, two,
leaned back lazily facing him with merry five days ago, under the guidance of Her-
eyes. "Now you are studying a position! cules. He is a naughty man, is her-
I won't have it! I want nothing but lion- cules; he belongs to my world, and all the
esty from you this afternoon, monsieur, people in my world are wicked, you know."
even to the pose of those pretty boots !"  There was no penetrating this sphinx,
Charley joined in the contagious laugh beautiful and irresistible as that of' Heine's
and submitted bravely to the situatioii, fhncy. Cliarhey was alniost embamiassed,
stretching huis legs straight out with a lazy and not particularly comfortable, but h~
grace. lie had been a little bewildered, sought refuge iii a lively description of his
but lie recovered niiraculously under the brief pilgrimage in Lutetia, and she encour-
undefinable charm of her gay familiarity; aged him with, smiles and little sparkling
lie had wit enough even to weigh her last bits of' laughter, and lie did very well indeed.
words, and form the instant deterniination to " And have you told inc all, monsieur?"
be "honest" as she asked. Poor Charley! she asked, sharply, when he caine to an end.
it was the unconscious strategy of innocence;  "Quite, I think, and a very stupid his-
he would hardly have held his own on any tom:y it must have been for von."
other ground.                            The honesty of' the fr~ink brown eyes
"There, madame, I niake myself' com- was not to he doubtful even by the woman
fortable at the expense of grace. It is your who was putting this man's soul to every
command. I did n't think I was so long, test in her power, and judging him with
though," he said, ruefully. every critical I'aculty of her being strained
"Are you?" she asked, ~bsently; but to the task.
her eyes took in the halfZrecumbent figure  "Of course it is stupid when I find my-
as she spoke. Then they returned to his self the ruling genius of it!" she sai(1, mima-
face rather seriously. "I am glad you lieioim~ly; "there was iso expense of' compli-
caine," she said, repeating her words; "1 ment in that; and what will you do, pray,
scarcely believed you would."          when I go away?"
"Could you tloubt it?" said he, ear-   He looked~tip~quickly with a hot suro'e of'
nestly.                                blood to his cheeks; but lie met only ~'cohd
"0 yes, easily, very mueh."          and rather cynical gaze, and the surge re-
"I cannot think why you should. I am tired. lie grew restless then - he would
happy, more happy than I dare to say, to be irritated in a moment - amid said, coolly
have come to be here now." enough, " Upon my word, I had not
It was hard to meet lien steady, serious, thought of it; I had hoped -"
unfathomable gaze and rhapsodize, and he  "And Paris is one vast resource, n'est ce
faltered before it.                    pus?" she laughed, harshly. "You will for-
"And notre Ilercule, where rides he the get me in an hour, -. properly circum-
whilst?" she asked.                    staneed, in a tithe of that time; and why
"Indeed, I hardly know. I left him with n(Jt? Why did you come today to see me,
a learned gentleman from the Quartier, an Mr. Wales?"
sculapius who seems in great odor with He was stunned, but found words to
our noble Olympian."                   reply, "You asked it."
"Ah yes, I know; Monsieur Vasour, was "AIm yes! so I did. I fancied, absurdly
not? a horrid man who smells of the enough, that you were not like all these
lamp," said Nina with a grimace.       nien who come here; but you are just the
"But a very clever one, I should think; same."
he quite dazzles me. One feels like a The soft melancholy with which they
Promethean vehicle in the master pres- were uttered could not cover the injury of
ence -"                                these words. Charley rose quickly. Poor fel-
Her laugh stopped him, and made him un- low! how easy she found it to play with him!
comfortable.                             "Madame Ia Banonne l I can only re-
"You poor boy I Do you know, your gret -"
Prometheus went once to attend an ahing "There! you bad child! you promised
nymph? The first time he was gran'l and to be good and endure, and you fly in a
serene ; the second, he smiled; the third -" rage! Sit again, vile! Je vous en corn-
"Oh! the nymph had got well again,     He sat down silently again, but with a
and would n't see him."               ruffled brow. She waited till she caught


duolsy.

his eye, and then held it like a magnet with
her own, earnest, softened, almost tearful.
"You were very quick to resent my
words, Mr. Wales," she said, sadly, in Eng-
lish, "and they were those of a poor, fool-
ish wpman to a strong man. Have you an
idea, I wonder, of what words 1 have had to
listen to and smile, and bear my humilia-
tion, here, under my own roof, thousands,
I had almost said millions, of times?"
Charley looked at her with a great throb
of remorse; lie tried to say something, but
succeeded only in uttering a word, "Ma-
dame-"
"I wonder also," she continued in the
same weary tone, "if you have any concep-
tion of the lives we lead, - for I am only
one of a class, Mr. Wales, - of the life I
have led, must lead to the hitter end ~?"
She paused then, and Charley said, hum-
bly, "I know little of Continental life, ma-
dame, - nothing, you may say; but what
you tell me seems incredible. In our coun-
try it could not be. May I ask your pardon
for my haste?"
"You good child! Did you suppose I
cared for it?" She was leaning her face on
her hand now, and looking at him with a
sweet sadness. "In your country all is free
and beautiful, and a woman's burdens, if
burdens they be, are of her own choosing.
Do your women appreciate their condition,
Mr. XValcs ? ".
He smiled at the thoughts the question
suggested.
"Ah! you smile, and I read your thought;
but would they change their state for ours?
I think not, though I have known some of
your fair countrywomen to come here and
make marriages, which is droll."
She shrugged her shoulders at the idea,
and there was a little pause.
"You have never heard, you know
nothing of my life, Mr. Wales?"
The question was rather direct, and he
was confused by the reflection how little he
did know.
"Nothing, madame; I have no acquaint-
ance, no opportunities; I am here since so
short a time," he stammered, and then took
courage and added quickly, "why need I,
madame? I know that you are beautiful
and good, very good to me, and I -"
"You would die for me, would you not?"
she put in mischievously, but with a glow
on her face that his sudden show of feeling
had called up. He saw the last and ig-
nored the tone.
"There may be that iti life which would
make death dearer than life."
"And that which would make life more
terrible than death," she responded, in a
tone as full of feeling as his own. "1 have
known that; some day when we are the
very, very good friends I hope we may be,

69

I shall tell you about my life, and you will
pity me, perhaps, and like me none the less
because I am less good than you had be-
lieved. I have never had a friend, Mr.
Wales, in all my life, - scores in name, but
none in deed, - though poor Hercules would
weep to hear me say it. You know what I
mean?"
"I can fancy it; a friend is rarer than
the world allows. I have but one. He will
he blessed indeed who shall claim the name
from you."
"I shall he blessed in finding him. Tell
me, - I have never thought to ask you,
how old are you, Mr. Wales Y"
Vingi-sept," laughed Charley.
"'Rouge, impair, a passe,'" she laughed
back to his uncomprehending ears. "I did
not think you so old. Tenez! I should be as-
tonished when I think of it. Why, I am
embarrassed, Mr. Wales; I thought you
were mimy junior!"
"If 1 might hope it would give me a grace
in your eyes - Ah! madame," he ad (led,
catching her sudden gayety, "let it not be
remembered against me; I was happier to
be-"
"'The good child,' n'est ce paz?" she said
as he hesitated. "Enfant! No, Mr. ~Vales,
- and there 's a lesson for you, - no wo-
man ever gave her heart entirely to a youn-
ger than herself~"
A sweet lesson and an apt scholar.
"Then shall I assume my new powers,"
cried Charley, blazing at her with his Isuob-
ino~ e  ~b as               .      b
~ yes, your reverend senior
"No, no! I won't be ruled. Don't at-
tempt it!" she cried back; "I am untam-
able, Mr. Wales."
" .1 think not."
" ('jell how cool he is! How should I
be tamed, monsieur?"
How indeed! the question took a myriad
forms in lip and eye and gesture.
"By a tender hand, as nature's fiercest
spirits are. Omme need only not to be afraid
of you."
"Mon Dieu! You are unmasking, Mr.
Wales; and are you not afraid?"
He did not look like it certainly, with
the smiling lips and the bright gleam in his
eyes. He had gathered up Tutu and won
the coy friendship of that minute bit of ani-
mation with his "tender hands," doing
which he neglected to respond to the Ba-
ronne's question.
"1 asked you if you were not afraid?"
she repeated with a little wondering at her
heart.
"No! Iwas; I am so no longer."
"And why?"
"Because," he said quickly, dropping
Tutu and turning to her, "it is I who am to
be your friend."
For a moment they looked silently at

4
4
4
4

4
'I

each other, he with a rapt, almost exalted
face, and she with wide-opened eyes am
lips parted in a smile that had died at it:
birth into something like pain. A threat
held them apart at that moment - a little
invisible thread that must break in another
instant.
Bnt she drew back before it parted. Nol
yet, not yet! it was so sweet.
"Grace, Monsieur le dompteur, it is I whc
am afraid!" she cried with a laugh, and ris*
ing as she spoke. "Are you a musician,
Mr. Wales? Of course you are; music it
essential to your system of soothing the
savage heart."
"I am no musician, madame, though I
can play a little and sing a little," he an-
swered, indolently. There was a little chill
of disappointment in his tone that was not
lost on her.
"Ban! you shall both play and sing for
me all the days when I wish it; n'est cc
paz, mon ami?"
"Ah yes! if you should ever wish it."
There was no chill in his tones now.
"I do wi4i it, even now," she cried. She
had tripped across the salon and thrown
open a little gem of a piano as she spoke,
and now she came back to him, where he
still sat watching her movements, and
caught him by the arm, like an impulsive
child that would not be denied.
"Came, how delightful it is! No one
ever plays for me that is, not as I care to
hear. I am sure you will."
Charley laughed happily and obeyed.
He ran over some rambling snatches of
Mendelssohn with the rare expression which
was his peculiar gift, while Nina leaned on
the instrument and watched him with spark-
ling eyes. She worshipped music, and
made it almost her key-note of character;
and the firm but soft touch of the young
man, modulated to the ordinary force of a
woman's hand, but eloquent of concealed
strength, was all her heart craved in him.
"How beautiful I" she murmured, when
he came to a pause, - meaning his music,
probably, but looking at him.
"And now, &amp; vous!" he said, rising.
She looked at him silently, as if she had
not heard the request.
"Do sing something for me," he pleaded,
coming around to her. Some scattered
sheets of music lay upon the piano, and he
took them mechanically, waiting for her to
wake from her revery. One of them caught
his attention; a rough crayon-sketch of a
head had been traced on it, and he turned
to catch the light upon it. It was early
twilight, or near it, and the room was dark-
ening. He recognized himself, and turned
to her with a quick impulse. She had
awakened now, and was smiling and blush-
ing all at once.

I "Fi I give it to me," she cried, and made
I a little snatch at it, which simply resulted
in his catching her hand and holding it
I very tight.
"There / you asked me to sing for you,"
she said, turning her head away, and tug-
ging feebly fur freedom. He released her
at once.
"Please do," he said.
She sat down and sang some brief, sweet
romance he had never heard, - sang it so
soft and low he could only gather a few
words of its meaning; but the perfect music
thrilled him to the soul. He begged a repe-
tition, but she rose when she had finished.
"No; some other time. You sing 'An-
nie Laurie,' don't you? Please sing it for
me. I was once in an English school here,
you know. Ah, how happy I was then!
and I had a darling friend who sang it so
sweetly. Sing it you, and I will go to my
corner and be so exquisitely sad I"
It was one of the few songs he sang well,
had sung all his life, and it might have
brought "exquisite sadness" to the tra-
ditional man of stone to hear him on this
occasion.
When he concluded there was perfect
silence in the room. He could not see the
Baronne from his seat, and he crossed over
to the canape He found her with her head
buried in the cushions, sobbing convulsively.
A deep, immeasurable pity for the wearied,
unsatisfied woman of the world welled up
in his heart, and for the moment vanquished
every other feeling. He went down upon
his knees, and sought her hands and kissed
them tenderly with the few words he could
trust himself to speak. Her hands clasped
his in turn, and pressed them on her heart,
as if to still the tumult there; but she did
not lift her head or speak, until he had
leaned over and with his lips touched her
temple where it met the cushion. She shiv-
ered at the touch, and drew herself away.
There had been no mockery in her emotion,
for she was very pale, and the eyes that
met his were streaming with tears. He
would have kissed these away, but she re-
pulsed him gently. Once she faltered, and
he caught her to him for an instant, but she
struggled from his arms in the next.
"No, no!" she cried, and her voice was
like a wail in his ears; "pity me! pity me,
and leave me!"
As she spoke, her cold, clinging fingers
twisted themselves from his own, and he
arose without a word, gave the hands a last
kiss, and moved away. His tears half
blinded him, and he paused before he
reached the door to clear his eyes. He
heard his name uttered clear and strong,
and with an almost hysterical tenderness,
and turning he saw her risen from her seat
upon her trembling limbs, with arms out-


70

CHTOISY.

stretched towards him, and the pale face
drawn with an agony of feeling. In an-
other moment she was sobbing on his breast,
moaning low, unintelligible words, while her
hands wandered nervously in his hair. Then
she crept tip to his lips with her own, cold
and trembling as a frightened child's. Ex-
cept those of her dead father, they had
touched no other man's in all her lifb. And
the rarest words that ever pass a French-
woman's lips c~ame in a whisper to him,
"Mon Charles, h moi I Je t'aime I"
CHAPTER XI.
A MESSAGJi FOR AMERICA.
THERE are certain divisional periods in
his work where the veracious historian is per-
initted by ancient custom to pause; and while
he generously enables the absorbed reader to
draw breath after a series of thrilling events,
to stretch the limbs and adjust the chair-
cushion, and light a fresh cigar, he does
something of' the kind himself; and in the
interval of the acts goes rapidly back over
the ground lie has passed, and gathers the
scattered threads of his narrative well in
hand before procee~ling. And at this point
it is asking no more than the time-honored
privilege of the old Chorus to beg the
reader's indulgence for a little speech.
Does any one cry "Speech"? Perhaps
not; but strengthened by entertaining remi-
niscences of the Speaker's Gallery and
'Scotch dinner-parties, I encourage myself'
with time example of those good souls who
will speak, to whom speech is not to be
denied, and mount my stump. If it unhap-
pily shall be judged that I have hurried my
hero too rapidly from point to point in a
career that savors somewhat of the descen-
.sus A verno in the nostrils of the righteous,
I have told the tale badly, and failed in an
honest endeavor to give some redeeming
color to the fatalities which dogged our
Charley's path. it was certainly my hope
to divest them in a measure of their sinful
and irregular character, since, bad as they
may be, they are but the precursors of worse.
Having failed in this, as the ominous silence
of my respected audience leads me only too
surely to believe, I am impelled to express
my regrets, as well as to insure my con-
science by the addition of something like a
warning. I regret, then, for a certain por-
tion of my hearers, that my story is not one
of peaceful scenes and virtuous deeds; that
my hero must needs fall lamentably short
in those high and peculiar qualities which
could endear him to their hearts, or even
render him tolerable in their eyes; and that
my little stock of incidents and the several
characters who figure therein are probably

too thoroughly of the earth earthy to meet
their lofty requirements. And let me be
saved from any subsequent imputation of
leading any spotless feet into the mire Un-
warned. I have intimated that the course
of this history, like the course of most his-
tory, tends from bad to worse. Therefore,
withdraw all ye who would avoid the dan-
gerous exposure with dignity and prudence.
I bow to your superior views of' life in all
humility. 1 weep that all the world is not
so good as you, and I lower my eyes, inno-
cent of resentment, before the cold condem-
nation of your glances as you pass out.
To the few who remain I turn with a
lighter heart. I am relieved, and I may
even venture a smile of sympathy as I re-
sume my story; and if, in my covert study
of tIme upturned faces bef'ure me, I shall de-
tect here and there one lighted by gleams
of kindly interest that tell me I have awak-
ened the hearer's emotions, and that I may
end by soothing a bitter memory and giving
courage to struggling resolves, 1 shall be
richly rewarded, and strengthened in my
trust that it is from the lives of feeble men
and women like ourselves, who, through
much error, have fought their way to truth,
rather than from the records of unblem-
ished saints, that we may draw our hope
and consolation in a life hedged round with
peills and mishaps.
It was the afternoon of a burning August
day at Paris, just two months after the
events recorded in the last chapter; one
of those fearful days when the asphalt
scorches one's boots, and the yellow house-
walls reflect a white beat upon tIme streets;
when the industrious shower of tIme water-
carts is repelled in a mist of steam, and the
few loiterers on the Boulevards hug the
southern wall, and even the impervious
cochers seek the interiors of their cabs or
abandon the same for the nearest eslarninet,
to groan and sweat over en(lless but inef-
fectual hocks of icy beer. The Gardens of
the Tuileries, the Champs Monceaux, amid
even the little crescent o C green at the new -
Church of the Trinity, are tIme refuge of per-
spiring thousands, who linger in the grateful
shade, but with the inextinguishable vivacity
of their race defeat its kindly service by
lively gossip and restless movement. Out
in the Bois, one finds whole lines of deserted
carriages along the shaded drives, with their
sleepy Jehus watching them from under
adjacent trees, while stray peals of laughter
from hidd~ii corners of the tangled foliage
tell of the wandering occupants. At
Neeser's, an pxmy of half-melted gar~ons
struggles against nature in furnishing the
brewage of Munich to another army of
suffering consumers; and in Rue Scribe
one may see at intervals some adventurous

A MESSAGE FOR        AMERICA.                       71
American, fortified by an experience of pause; it contains the single mystic injunc-
boiling thermometers in the home-land, tion to "keep the kid on," together with a
braving the scorched and shadeless path to statement which has roused all the enthu-
Thorpe's and iced champagne. siasin of our pilgrim to Trouvihle, namely,
There is, nevertheless, a certain activity that the, writer has caused a credit to be
prevailing in all the heated thoroughfares; it placed to Monsieur Somers's account at
bespeaks a widespread movement among a Bowles's, which it is hoped will prove ac-
large class; and in remarking that its main ceptable, and be used to advantage in the
features are baggage-laden cabs, wheeling execution of' plans in which the writer and
towards the various railway termini, and per- the recipient are "mutually interested."
spring gentlemen who, bag in hand, pursue There could be no doubt that~ the credit
the same routes by omnibus and panier, we was" acceptable." Financial windfalls were
are led to conclude that this general stir is as grateful to Mr. Somers as to his fellow-
bred of a sudden attack of the out-of-town men; for, though Dame Fortune was not
epidemic. The explanation is sufficiently ap- especially ungracious to him in the matter
parent in the Champs Elys6es, where ahostof of supplies, there were times when the
busy workmen are training long lines of tri- horizon of his affairs was specked with
colored lanterns along the walks, and uniting clouds, when the baronet-brother, who fur-
the Plane de la Concorde to the Arch of wished a fair stipend on rigid conditions,
Triumph by a glittering cordon of holi- would ruffle his brows at some trifling in-
day insignia. It is, in fact, the 14th of fringement of the same, and put on the
August, and to-morrow Paris, which is screws in a way that was grievously felt
France, will go down in the dust to her by the pensioner. On such occasioiis the
idol and burn some millions in incense in alarm of' the latter, and his haste to plead
the worship of' him who sleeps in splendor an excuse and smooth over the ihult, argued
at the Invalides; and, paradoxical as it may the impendency of very grave possibilities.
seem, every boi'n Parisian who can contrive It is not necessary to our story to deal with
an escape will fly the scene, while a pro- the remote antecedents of Mr. Somers; so
vincial multitude will pour in at the gates much of the record as may be essential will
front the Midi to the Rhine. comae out in due course, and we are glad to
In his shaded apartments on the Male- leave him in the protecting halo of mystery,
sherbes, we find the noble Somers deployed which garb carries so very many of us safe
upon a sofa, tIme insufficient proportions of an(l unquestioned' through the world. As
which are pieced out by a convenient chair, we know him, and as the world goes, Ned
smoking a meditative cigar in such de'shabille Somers was not entirely a bad fellow.
as only the privacy of his chamber could Practically destitute of the abstraction
excuse. There is a disorder in his room, which we call a conscience lie was, and
and signs of pillage in the opened wardrobe little influenced by any considerations in
and the scattered drawers of his bureau, life beyond his individual welfare and the
while a chaos of personal effects is strewn, ways and means thereof, there was yet no
as only the bachelor-hand may strew them, poAtive element of evil in the man, beyond
upon tIme floor, the bed, and the halfscore the passive acquiescence of those natures
ot' chairs. In the mni(ldle distance a pleth- which flourish on the neutral ground of
one portmsnteau, crammed to its utmost mom-al ideas. The evil of their (hoing is a
capacity, and promising a trial of strength question for the phihosophems; given a
to the hand that shall close it, tells the tale, favorable conjuncture ofr'ircumstanccs, Som-
- Mr. Somers also is going out of town. ~ers would go through life and do no man a
lie is going down to Trouville, - grace- wrong; pushed by opposite influences, he
less, jolly, overflowing Trouville, ~t cote' de would have sacrificed much in jealous
la mer, where their wear a nightcap in the regard of self, and felt himself justified pos-
daytime, which is primitive 'and emblematic sibly in so doing. The world is full of such
of repose, and bathe e~ travestie, as they men; indeed, when possessed of a certain
dance four ihouths later ~at the opera-balls, executive force, they are the most success-
He is possessed with all the pleasures of f'ul men. What we succeed partially in
anticipation, as he lies there and blow expressing in the terni nobility is the anti-
indolent clouds of smoke; he knows Trou- thesis of his character, and thus his char-
ville of old, and he is known of Trouville, acter is best described.
and a thousand agreeable, enticing memo- Somers was conscious of being accessory
ries rally at the name and glow in his heart to an underhand scheme of Richard Hunt-
with genial warmth. Nor is this engaging ley's against young Wales. Circunistances
prospect the only stimulus to his great in no great measure controlled by him had
self satisfaction~ at this time. He holds lent their inexorable aid, and to an extent
in his hand a letter received that morn- relieved him from action in the matter;
ing by foreign mail; it is a letter of congrat- but he had originally accepted the commis-
ulation, of commendation, I may say ap- sion, and rejoiced now in payment for the


72                          CHOISY.

same. In all this he found matter for much
self-congratulation; but it should be said in
his favor, that he did have a little sympa-
thetic twinge for Charley; he "liked the
boy," and wondered, with a spark of regret,
why he could not have been "one of another
sort." "Huntley means his ruin, and what
Runtley means to do he does. I 'm sorry;
I wish lie had left me out ofit; it's fishy!"
But the fine Anglo-Parisian did not per-
mit this single disturbing thought to mar
the felicity of the moment. In the form
employed by deliberative bodies his medi-
tations might have been summed up thus -
Whereas, the said Charles is a victim to
certain mysterious combinations of the said
Huntley, and is therefore entitled to com-
miseration by reason of his many excellent
and attractive qualities; and,
Whereas, the said Huntley is a devilish
clever and altogether formidable fellow,
whose orders are in no respect to be ques-
tioned, and who, moreover, is not ungener-
ous in his recognition of services rendered;
and,
Whereas, the said Somers is infernally
lucky to have served the one without hay-
ma actually wrought injury to the other;
'ileit resolved, that Trouville-sur-Mer
offers at this moment a harbor of exceeding
peace to the said Somers, to which, at this
auspicious juncture of his affairs, it is voted
that he shall without delay proceed, to en-
joy a fitting respite from his labors in town.
The simple fact was, that while Somers
really felt a strong liking for Charley, he
felt a stronger fear of Huntley; and there
is no choice in life between the master one
{ears and the master one likes.
Diaposing of the final details of his prep-
aration, Somers strolled around to the bank-
er's, where he found some letters for Char-
hey, which he brought away. He had done
the same with exemplary regularity for two
months, and forwarded the missives from
various conycuient stations of the post, but
never from the bank, where the question of
Mr. Wales's whereabouts was one of no
little mystery. This day he returned to
his apartments and made a neat packet of
the letters, elevating his eyebrows slightly
as he noted the feminine character of their
superscriptions. This packet he addressed
to adittle-known Swiss village, -one of that
vast colony of chalet-clusters where a sum-
mer world hides its sins, - described in
modern vernacular as "a small hamlet of
Vaud, mule snetres de kauteur," and possess-
ing the varied advantages of magnificent
view, pure air, grape-cure, and cure of
milk, courses de montagnes et prix mod6'e's.
He smiled to himself oyer the task, and
sang, softly,
"Zwei Seelen und em f3edanke,
Zwei Herien und cm Schiag."

After which he gave the packet to the con-
cierge to post, and bidding that amiable but
desolated female an impressive farewell,
bestowed himself forthwith in a cab, with
his impedimenta, and drove gayly to St.
Lazare. Not many hours later he descend-
ed at the Arm of Gold, and there was joy
among the nymphs of ocean, by whom the
"Hercules" of Nina Choisy was gayly des-
lo-nated Pare Neptune"; and in their de-
lightful keeping we will leave him.
The world gossiped, as it gossips ever, in
the long, idle, summer days, and the invisi-
ble agencies which bring in the supplies
furnished more than one mysterious whis-
per about the Baronne Choisy. Some Paris
friends, bound to Switzerland and pausing
at Lyons, discovered the fact of her absence
from the chateau, and sent the news hack
to Paris as a bonne boucke for the stay-at-
homes; and from that point the wonder
grew, and grew the more rapidly because
there was no clew to her whereabouts.
Somers, cornered at the club, denied the
fact; driven from that, he confessed un-
bounded surprise and utter ignorance;
and so the busy bees, left to their devices,
searched Europe for the lovely Nina, and,
finding her nowhere, established her every-
where, in one place after another, and
sometimes in several at once.
Then there came a lull, and the false
oracles, warned by instinct, were silent as
tombs. Some gallant club-men, afflicted
with the Alpine mania of clog-soles and
empty knapsacks, stumbkd upon the miss-
ing divinity among the lower hills. They
were unambitious climbers, and shunned
Chamounix and St. Gothard for the Or-
monts and cheap roulette at Saxon; hence
their falling into sequestered paths. ~7hey
came back to Paris, and, like discreet
Frenchmen, retained their discovery until
they had dined; before they dined again,
it was known from the Tuileries to the
Faubourg Poissonninre that the dashing
queen of the Avenue de ha Rcine Hortcnse
was (tout bas!) en liaison, sais-tu, avec ce
jeune Americain de les grand yeax bruns!
"Enfin!" cried the united Jockey Club;
and with the afterthought it looked at itself
in the glass, twirled its mustache, and said,
under its breath, " Comment diable!"
Mr. Cheerful Scribbler, Paris correspond-
ent of the New York Evening Tattler,
was duly electrified by this bit of scan.
meg., as it came in fragments to hi~ ears in
the rattle of table-talk at the Cafh Anglais.
He made hurried notes of the ease, which
he subsequently elaborated at his aerial
nest in the Rue des Martyrs; and thus it
came to pass that in tl:e waning summer
days a widely copied item of choice "for-
eign gossip" went the rounds of the Amer-

MR. HUNTLEY'S PROGRESS.                             '73
jean press, having first seen the light in the I beg your pardon; but out yonder, as you
chatty columns of the enterprising journal will admit, there was method in all the
above mentioned. I quote so much of it as madness, -a legend in the tumult and fury
serves our purpose.                     of the stage, which one might read and
"All Paris," it said, -" and 'all Paris' comprehend. But what to gather from such
at this out-of-town season is a comprehensive chaos as this? I see no class, no right of
term which takes in Baden and Spa, Hom- place; I see nothing, monsieur, but a mad
bourg, Biarritz, gay Vichy, and Switzerland whirl of social life, without distinctions and
entire, - is in a flutter of excitement over a free from barriers, where there seems great
fresh development of 'scandal in high life,' danger for all, and protection for none.
which has more than ordinary piquancy. Mon Dieu! mon ami, it is worse than Paris;
These little events in France have the pleas- it is la Commune diabolically perfected!
ing quality of arousing a gentle and sympa- Softly, my friend; do not give our strug-
thetic interest, without in any degree dam- gling civilization so hard a name; it is
aging the characters of what we may call younger, by some thousands of years, than
the 'contracting parties'; au contraire, the yours, and in time we hope for better things.
distinction rather elevates them in the gen- You ha upon a peculiar era of evolu-
eral esteem, gives them a certain attractive tion; the star of ancestral pride had no
renommc'e in the social world, and wins the title to its place in our skies, and has re-
high approval of the scarred magnates cently fallen, and Nouveau Riche is the
thereof. In this instance, however, the genius of the hour. The homage of name
ease will possess unusual interest for your and line died when legal-tender was born,
readers, since, while the fair enchantress is and Mrs. Van Anything, with a clear ha-
the beautiful Baroness Ch-y, whose invin- eage running back to the burgomasters,
cible charms have been the talk of Paris must take the wall for Mrs. Paul Potiphar,
for several seasons, the favored gentleman and fly the course with all her court as
is no other than the only son of a prominent Fortuitous Smith careers like Phaeton on
banker of your city, who shall be nameless. his resistless course. It cannot soil the
"I will only add that his handsome face glossy black hides of his matchless six-in-
is too well known, both in the street and on hand to say that Fortuitous owes his all to
the avenue, to have been forgotten in tbe the magic popularity of a nameless com-
brief interval of his absence abroad. The pound at a dollar the bottle; there will be
sensation here is intense, on account of the fools to buy and knaves to sell when you
hirh position of the Baroness and the sin- and I are duet. And why rake the ash-
gu~iarity, in Parisian eyes, of her choice in heap to tell me that Mrs. Potiphar's Poti-
bestowing her favors on l'Etranger."    1)har began his business.life in the vocation
Following in the wake of this pre~ous of grog-mixer to the maritime world of
epistle, we will leave the Grande Milk to South Water Street? Times, men, and
its August sunshine, its loveliness, and its principles have changed. Progression and
sins, and Ide us homeward over the west- aggression are the key-notes of our civiliza-
era sea.                                tion, and we reject the mouldy traditions of
the cradle-lands with scorn. With equal-
handed recognition of merit and ability, we
CHAPTER     XII.             send our prize-fighters to the legislative
MR. EUNTLEY'S PROGRESS.          halls, and dismiss the useless veterans of
our wars to the starvation byways of for-
Cw'um non anzmum mutamus. We come eign lands. There is but one god, and his
from Paris, and we are at Newport. There name is Success! Down, down, all ye,
has been some marvellous scene-shifting; and worship him! N'importe the hideous
and what a cool relief, after those glaring, brute-face, the filth-stained bands, and the
sunburnt streets, are these pretty lines of corrupt heart. He glitters with gold; gold
cliff, beach, and sea, with ;green trees and to pay and gold to give; and more men
smiling cottages beyond! Is 't not a rare, will come at his call than gathered to the
sweet scene, my French friend? loaves and fishes by Galilee. Kneel to
Cllarmante.! But tell me, these, actors him, follow him, imitate him; give heart
whom I see, monsieur, thronging this pretty and soul to the task; heed no cry of nature
stage? They are the same. No! true, it or voice of need; be deaf to the tender wo-
is another tongue, but the dress, the action, man and the weak old man; the one will
the manner, - bak! ces sont les mfmes! smile on you by and by, and the other will
We have voyaged in our dreams only; this die, and you must lose no minute in the
giddy, feverish play, 't is just as giddy breathless race. Some day, more glitterinct
and as feverish as that other across the and golden even than your g9d, you shafi
sea. Less sinful? Pcchaps; certainly less push him from his stool, and s~t triumphant
smooth. Stay! what, if you know, may in his place. BahI it is but question of
be the argument? Me, I am very stupid, decimals; beat. him a head, and the place
10

I


74

CHOISY.

is yours; but never dream of happiness
so long as he is richer by a dollar than
you.
And see how here in our Newport - our
little allegorico-comic picture of American
life - the metal smooths the way! They
cut the corners of whist-cards in France and
gild them to umake them slip; see how the
"bad cards" slip in this pretty deal we are
watching! Down the dance goes Beauty
with the Beast, and, as I live! Rigolette!
and Clytemnnestra! and all because of the
gilt!
Why do you not join the round? What!
Zounds! is the record so bad as that?
Never mind, old fellow, are you not gilded?
Achilles was not more proof than you!
Enter, and he happy!
We find the Jennings household, of
which Enima lowland is a treasured mem-
ber, installed in their cottage on the cliffs,
where, indeed, they have passed the sum-
mer. The gay world has seen little of
Miss Rowland, however, and ~t is whispered
that she is broken in health. As we see
her this hazy afternoon, sitting with the
rose-checked Clare in the shade of the east-
ern porch, there would seem to be good real
son for the report. The contrast is painful
when one turns from the face of her merry
friend, glowing and sparkling with life and
health, to her own, so wan and colorless in
the shade. The slender form, too, is more
fragile than we knew it, and the hand which
is twining itself in Clare's luxuriant curls is
thin, and shows the dark, overlying veins
all too plainly.
Miss Jennings, with all the old child-
manner, sits flat upon the porch, with her
pretty head resting on Emma's knee, and
her eyes staring blankly out to sea; the
whereabouts of her legs - assuming, if we
may, that she is possessed of those useful
appendages - would best be described as
"anywhere." TIme slant rays of the sun
are Thlling beyond tIme cliffs upon sea
and sail, and the drive is growing lively as
fashion gathers to its sunset parade; but
the silent girls keep their places, and seem
to have no thought of the gay world with-
out. Emma is the firbt to wake from her
revery.
"And Mamma Jennings is then quite
decided?"
"0 yes! You know she never decides
twice, - I mean, she decides once for all;
it 's as goo(l as done. And is n't it odd?
After tensing her, a whole year to go, now,
when it is certain to be, I feel a sort of
shock; I think I am a little afraid. Dear
me! I'm just like Nethdie; lie cried so
hard to be let go to the minstrels, and
when he saw their black faces he slid down
on the floor and cried harder than ever to
be taken home."

"Have you lost your old desire to go?"
asked Emma, smiling down at the upturned
face.
"0 dear, no! It is n't that, but I never
thought much about the going, you know,
and there 's that awful sea! I was fright-
ened to death every moment the oIlier day
when we were out in the yacht with Mr.
Huntley. I shall be just good for nothing,
I know, the whole way over. But I am
glad, ever so glad! 'Not all 01(1 Neptune's
flood,' as that darling Booth says, can
wash that out!' And are you riot too ?
"I shall enjoy it very much, very much
indeed," answered Emma, quietly.
In the interval of silence which followed,
Clare caught the thin hand in her own and
looked up softly.
"Have you thought, dear, we might run
across that naughty Charley somewhere?"
There was the faintest possible flush on
Emma's face, but no answering pressure of
the hand.
"I have thought of it, it seems quite
possible. I should be very glad if we
might."
"'Would it not be nice! But what a lec-
ture 1 shall give him. I shall study it up
all the way. There 's mamma calling to
know if we are going to ride. You don't
care to? 1 '11 run and tcll her, an4 come
back."
Miss Rowland leaned back wearily in
her chair, a great, soft wick er-work affair,
that seemed to fold her in its arms in con-
scious sympathy. The mention of' Charley's
name had awakened painful thoughts -
thoughts that sometimes slept, but never
left her; and her eyes, looking upon the
darkened waters, were dim and saw them
not. Bravely and hopefully h~d she waited
for an answer to liner second letter, written
in the winter,- the letter so full of affection
and tender words, - the letter in which all
that she might write she had written; but
it had never conic. ~he could not know
that he, the most negligent of correspond-
ents at best, had begun a reply to it, be-
ginning the work in England, hurriedly
completing it in Paris, and ending by toss-
ing the epistle into his desk. We know
what became of the letter; she never saw
it, and it was just as well, perhaps. For
months she watched and hoped, invented
ingenious excuses for him and accepted
them for herself, and fought oft; to the last,
the shadow that boded such misery to her;
but with the long summer days the hope
had died. If she could have heard of him
but in(lirecthy, some ~vor(l to tell of his wel-
fare and his feelings, if he were well and
not unhappy, the burden would not have
been so hard to bear; but lie wrote tono
one, after that single letter there came no
tidings whatever. It was the very worst she

MR. HUNTLE]

had feared; he seemed utterly blotted from
her life.
But the patient courage of the woman
gave no outward sign of failing; neither the
ever-watchful eye of Huntlcy nor the ten-
der solicitude of Clare could detect any
further eVi(lcuice of the bruised heart in
word or manner. To the latter, who waxed
wratliful and tempestuous over the non-arri-
val of the fhmou~ fasliion.plates, she said,
"We ought to remember what a whirl he is
in; and you know he always made such a
task of a letter."
"I don't care!" flashed Miss Chare,
"it 's just a shanme, and I shall scold him
famously when he comes home with his
waxed mustache and Paris airs. I '11 make
fun of everything lie says, and ask him if it
is true, as Nurse Rollin says, that they eat
nothing but frogs there, and cut off heads of
a Suiiday in the square for public entertain-
ment. 1 wish lie was here this minute !"
Something, however, in this inspiring idea
seemed to check the young lady's vindictive
impulses, for she grew pensive at the thought,
and ended by brushing away niore of those
truant teirs. What drew them from their
source was not quite apparent; but she was
very tender to Emma thereafter, and in
time they caine to speak very rarely and
briefly of the absent one.
Mr. IIuntk) bud asked Emma once quite
suddenly, "You hear occasionally from
your cousin, of course? I am in his black
books; he writes me no more."
"I have had but one letter from him;
he was always a poor correspondent."
There was not a tremor in lip or voce, and
the heart of Ilumutley was glad. But the
woman suffered; her pillow could have
told a weary tale of tears, and the brave
soul that bore itself patiently before the
world faltered and grew faint in the dark-
ness ami(1 solitude, and her health failed.
This was the uuish)oken thought of all her
friends; for, though there was no apparent
disease, it needed ormly the comparison of
the fadimig girl with her former self to con-
vince the observer that she was really ill.
She had never been a strong woman, hut
from PkYsical delicacy she lapsed into weak-
ness. Th~ anxious eye of Mi's. Jennings
noted time change, and s'he had ventured
once to question Emma very guardedly and
carefully. But she n~met only with pained
surprise, with unhesitating disbelief, indeed,
at the time, which made further discussion
of the subject impossible. She was so moved
by her fears, however, that she ignored
boldly the prescribed date of tIme fashionable
hegira, amid hurrie(l her household down to
the beach a month before the usual time,
taking Emama with her.
The niove was a serious inconvenience to
Mr. Richard Iluntley. That gentleman

~'S PROGRESS.                       75
had made very satisfactory progress at the
house in the Avenue, where he was grown
to be something of an intirne, as he was also
now a frequent participant in the business
councils of Wales, Bwton, &amp; Co. Without
self-questioning and without the slightest
anticipation that he could ever be more
than the sympathetic an(1 congenial friend
he was, Emma Howland'contiiued to meet
him in her parlors, and after a time to
accord him a certain preference which was
not unnoted by her gentleman friends. Of
their inferences she had no hint, and of the
outside rumor she heard no word. But the
advantage iva~ one that ilunticy budt on
bravely; it thinned the ranks of his coni-
petitors, and helped him to push that stolen
march, of which the object never dreamed,
with steady persistency.
But the flight to Newport was a disaster
to his arms; it occurred at a pet'ulialy un-
fortunate period in his strategeticid game,
and it is not to be wondered at if the
guarded patience of the man gave way un-
(Icr the disaster, especially as patience was
purely a borrowed quality with him, worn
for a time and fbr a purl)ose. Tie lost his
head, or came very near it, and went beyond
his r6le, for he followed the party to New-
port within a week, un(lcr a flimsy excuse
of business in Boston; and as there was
not a hotel opened in the place, they lodged
him for three days at the cottage, during
which time his devotion to Emma was so
marked that even the unsuspecting girl was
made momentarily uncomfortable by it.
Then his blood cooled, and he caine back to
town to think on whet he had (lone~
Mrs. Jennings viewed the alThir in some
perplexity. She was perfectly well aware
of Miss Howland's feelings, an(l share(1 the
general affection for the absent ('harley;
but she was also very favorably ~lisposed
towards the broker. She liked him, in
fact, very much, and decided, after some
reflection, that Emma would he made happy
and rescued from that insidious decline by
marrying him.
"She is just wasting herself away over
that wayward boy, who is forgetting her as
fast as ever he can. If she would only
learn to like Mr. Huntley! I think I'll
speak to hei-"
With this purpose she managed a t~te-~-
l&amp;e with Emma some days after Humintley's
visit. It was in her own room, where the
young girl often lingered, seated at the feet
of the elder, for whom her affection was all
that of a daughter, enWinced by an enthusi-
astic sentiment of admiration and confi-
denee.
"I think you like Mr. Huntley very much,
do you not, dear?" asked Mrs. Jennings,
after a circumspect approach to the sub-
ject.


y( 7

CHOISY.

"0 yes I very much indeed. He is so
agreeable, and so very clever, and was such
- such a friend of Charley's, you know."
"So he was. I remember."
"I suppose he must be much older than
he seems, he has seen so much of life and
the world. He is really wonderful some-
times."
"I can readily imagine, though he has
never exhibited his wonders to me," said
Mrs. Jennings, smiling; "and you think
him 'old'?"
"I don't know, of course; not particularly
old, perhaps; but forty or more, certainly.
It is not easy to guess the exact age of a
man like him."
"Forty can scarcely be called old; men
at that age possess deeper feelings than at
any previous time."
"I suppose so, &amp;nd I have always im-
agined Mr. Huntley to be a man of pecu-
liarly strong feelings. One feels an in-
stinctive curiosity about such people, a
vague suspicion that their lives have been
marked by great events, saddened by some
heavy disappointment. Of course, they
never speak of it, and one is left to one's
surmises.
"That does n't always follow, my dear; a
man, many men, arrive at Mr. Huntley's
age without having had their stronger
affections engaged."
"Do you think so? Of course, you ~re
right; but I always think that passage of
life belongs to earlier years."
~' With women, as a rule, it does; hut
with men, and especially with men who
enter the world young and encounter much
vicissitude, the sentiment often remains un-
awakened."
"But I am quite sure Mr. Iluntley has
had his' experience.' I have detected indu-
bitable evidences of it more than once."
"Have you, indeed," laughed theeldier, -
"you watchful puss! And in what, pray?"
"0, 1 could scarcely explain in what,"
answered Emma, blushing faintly. "Once
or twice he has spoken of love, briefly and
delicately; rather sadly too, and only as a
man could do who has loved some one -
"Or loves some one now," put in Mrs.
Jennings, ('unningly.
rphe shot fell short, however; Emma only
mused, and after a moment said, innocently
enough, "No, I should hardly think that
possible."
"What a child it is I" laughed Mrs.
Jennings, bending down to kiss the upturned
face; no one so well as she, the wise woman
of the world, might know the rare value of
that pure, guileless heart.
"As I said," she continued, seriously,
"men at Mr. Huntley's time of life and of
a nature like his, if I judge him rightly,
have intensely strong feelings. Whether

they have had what you call an 'experi-
ence' or not makes very little difference;
if they conceive an affection, it is very deep
and strong, and it must be a great misfor-
tune for them if it is misplaced or made
light of."
"It would be very sad," said the young
girl, sympathetically.
"it would be more than sad; and it
would be very wicked wilfully to encour-
age or to deceive such a one, - would it
not, dear?"
"0, terribly! Could any one do that
deliberately?"
"There are some who would, I fear;
very few; not you, I know, above all."
"You good mamma! I would not, though
- I could not!"
"And yet - Listen, you funny child! I
am going to tell you what every one in the
world knows but you, - Mr. lluntley is in
love with you !"
Emma looked up for an instant with ter-
ror and bewilderment in her eyes; then she
flushed scarlet, and buried her face in her
friend's lap.
"0 Mamma Jennings, don't say that!"
Mrs. Jennings was a little startled, de-
spite herself, by the drawn face and the ap-
pealing tone.
"There, there! never mind, darling. I -
somebody ought to have tuld you before,
since you have got no eyes for yourself; if
it had been sornd~ody 1 know, you would
have seen it long ago! There is no harm
done to any one, dear; and I think now
that all my fine, preparatory questions were
mistakes. I only wished to know just how
you felt."
"I never dreamed of such a thing!" said
Emma, raising her pale, distressed face;
"1 did not, indeed, mamma, and now -
Dear me! I think I can see something of
it. How stupid I have been! but~I did not
know. 0 mamma! what shall I do?"
And down went the glossy head again in
despair.
"Tut! It is nothing, child. The worst
is over, and we will easily arrange the rest,"
said Mrs. Jennings, with a little huskiness in
her voice, as she patted the head lying on
her knee.
"I am so sorry! How could I have been
so blind? And yet he was so serious, so
old! 0 mamma! you don't think - have
I - was I - encouraging him?"
"No, pet; no possible blame can attach
to you. But, child, why do you dwell on
his age? Surely, lie is not so very venera-
ble; he is younger in nature than half these
ungoverned young men you know. After
all, do you not like him a little, just a
little?"
The young girl was all alive now to the
significance of Mrs. Jennings's words. She

MR. HUNTLEY'S PROGRESS.                            77
looked up with a pained face, and said in a too little of what we may call the physical
choking voice, "Don't, mamma, please!" rebound in the system of one so young. A
And Mrs. Jennings saw the hopelessness case requiring great care and all possible
of the task in her face, and felt it in her distraction without excitement; a case
words. which particularly demands change, a mod-
"Pardon me, darling, it was only the old elated variety of life and scene, or even
lady's fun; I won't say any more, and you altered conditions of life. I need scarcely
must not let this worry you; it is all over, tell you, madam, how precarious are these
But you are not sorry that I told you be- periods of a young girl's life. A Euro-
fore lie did, are you 'I" pean voyage? The very best ofdiversions,
"Ah, no! I am so glad you did; but I madam; care at the outset in not overdoing
can't think wha~, I shall do. I can never the strength. Winter in Italy or south of
see him again. ,, cried Mrs. Jennings, France. I have no hesitatlmn in recoin-
"Fiddlesticks!                       mending it as the very best course."
assuming a merry face; "leave it all to me, Acting upon this advice, Mrs. Jennings
dear; you can trust me, can't you? Only brought her long-meditated project of a
put away those troublesome thoughts. visit abroad to definite shape. She saw
There! I hear the girls; now run away and Mr. Wales, and found no obstacle in his
gossip, and I will plan a campaign, for our wishes; he only regretted that the "voyage
fitithihi knight will come again before long, should have the character of a melancholy
1 know. Aux armes! There, go alono-!" necessity for his niece," and was warm in
But it was not so simple a thing to "put his recognition of Mrs. Jennings's great
away" the troubled emotions that this reve- goodness in arranging the trip for her hene-
lation awakened in Emma's heart. It had lit. Mr. Wales's respect for avid confidence
shocked her far more than Mrs. Jennines in Mrs. Jennings were unbounded; she was
could know or imagine; for there was some- one of the "successes," and in a class for
thing more than the mere pain and humilia- which he had the highest regard. So the
tion of her mistake, something which shaped wise lady made her preparatory arrange-
itself in a vague distrust, an intangible fear, ments rapidly, and had them well in shape
before which she shrank and cowered with before the secret was revealed to the excit-
a great dread. She could not ignore the ed Clare. That young lady begged pite-
powerful influence that Huntley had gained ously to be allowed the privilege of telling
and held over her, or blind herself to a Emma, and after many admonitions it was
strong, sympathetic liking for the man which granted her, and that afternoon when we
had grown in her heart. She did not love fbund them enjoying the sunset sea the
him. 0 no! she could love but the one, momentous intelligence had been imparted.
and should love that one always. But that We leave the pleasing figures of speech, the
terrible aching void which only one love tremendous flights of fancy, in which that
could wholly fill had given place to a cer- exuberant damsel had indulged bel'ore the
tam affection for the other, involufitary silence of exhaustion and reaction in which
and unsuspected. And now this affection, they were first disclosed to the lively imagi-
just discovered, filled her with fear; but nation of the reader, while we return to
she was powerless to cast it out. Mr. Huntley.
Why could he not have been the impas- He had "come again soon," as Mrs. Jen-
sive creature she had imagined him? - the nings predicted, and had been a regular
devoted but pasaionless friend of the beauti- and frequent visitor at the beach and at the
ful and wealthy girl? cottage. But a new and uncomfortable
She shed bitter tears that night, and shadow had entered his dreams. On his
wrestled with the new terror which had second visit he found Miss [lowland recov-
entered her Jifh, and the trembling lips ering from an illness, and dii not see her;
moaned in the darkness, "0 Charley 1 he saw Mrs. Jennings instead.
why dii you leave me? ~hy do you not "'rhe poor child is quite miserable," she
come back?" said; "she insisted on seeing some gentle-
She had her first real illness after this. men friends a few moments this afternoon,
She broke down suddenly, and Mrs. Jen- but I vetoed any further indulgence em-
nings, though much alarmed, felt a certain phatically. You must excuse her, Mr.
satisfaction in securing the long-desired Huntley; she will regret her inability to see
opportunity for medical advice. The prosy you.
rhetoric of the man of science merely con- "I am too pained to learn that site is not
firmed her fears.                      well to regard my own disappointment,"
"No present disease, madam, but an un- said Huntley, with an anxious face and a
fortunate susceptibility, possibly a predis- raging heart. "Gentlemen friends!" and
position. Her mother was delicate? Ah! before him! And what was this diplomatic
I should have surmised as much. There woman "up to"? Of the very few people
are indications of mental depression, and in the world the man really feared, Mrs.


A GAIN OF GROUND.

Jennings was perhaps the most formidable
at that moment.
"0,1 trust it is nothing!" said the lady.
"These young bodies have their little mala-
dies, you know, often as causeless as they
are harmless. Miss lowland has had much
sorrow, and, I fancy, was sadly afflicted by
the unceremonious departure of her cousin
in the winter. She is wonderfully tender-
heatted; it is a pity we older ones cannot
give these sensitive children a little of our
savoir supporter, Mr. Iluntley; they are so
absurdly given to bruised hearts and rainy-
day sentiment!"
"I trust Miss lowland has not fallen
into that melancholy strait," said the broker,
bewildered and enraged. The delicate
manner with which she elevated him to an
equality with herself as a grave senior, and
her agreeable tone of confidence, were to-
tally unappreciated by the gentleman.
"Something of it, perhaps; if she were
not such an angel, I should have less pa-
tience with her. Do you m~ever hear from
the runaway, Mr. hluntley?"
"From - 0, Mr. Wales; he has quite
discarded me. I hear of him, however, at
Paris."
He looked very much as if it were possi-
ble to press further information from him
on that head, but Mrs. Jennings showed no
disposition to avail herself of the chances.
"Indeed! enjoying himself, no doubt.
They will do it, and Charley is like us all;
if the scapegrace does not return to grace
soon, though, I shall conspire against him."
"And you would be a dangerous antago.
nist!" Iluntley could not but say, though
there was more evidence of the smart in his
tone than he had imagined.
"I should think I might be, Mr. Huntley,
as I value the happiness of Miss lowland
as I do that of my own daughters."
After this he saw Emma, but always in
the company of Mrs. Jennings, who, with a
quiet persistency that foiled him effectually,
assumed entire supervision of their inter-
course, and shaped it according to her
desires. He was bewildered by suspicion
and anxiety, and the constraint he had not
failed to detect in Emma's manner - for
even under the broad, protecting wing, she
felt a strange embarrassment in Huntley's
presence - did not ten(l to quiet his alarm.
It drove him to cx pedients, and under cover
of a yachting party lie had hoped to escape
the watchful guardian; but even in this, and
to the speechless astonishment of her proge-
fly, who knew her deep antipathy to boats
of all kinds, Mrs. Jennings came resolutely
to the front, and Mr. Huntley cycutually
returned to New York in a state of despera-
tion.
Learning there of the European project,
which had notbeen mentioned tohimatNew-

port, he repaired incontinently to his quar-
ters, hurled a fine new Christy at Venus
Callipyge, and, glaring angrily at the man
in the mirror, "d-d his luck" in no gentle
terms. It was aggravating beyond words
to have a complication more alarming, if
possible, than all he had overcome, arise at
this juncture of affairs. Only a little time
before - it was when lie received tIme satis-
factory advices of Mr. Somers at Paris -
he had surveyed the field with exultant feel-
ings, and like a great strategist, who has
gained by covered movements the key aof
the position, felt victory within his grasp.
And now ! - it was bad enough to have
Miss lowland dragged away from town a
month earlier than he h~d expected, and to
have that in- clever "Mamma Jennings"
stepping between them, as she for some in-
explicable reason seemed disposed to do.
But to go to Europe - why, it was ruin
out and out to all his plans! At the least,
it would make slicer waste of all his months
of careful advances, and night lead to -
to anything,'cverything, lie did not like to
think what. The man of passion got the
better of the schemer at this thought.
In his anger lie seized on a very small
weapon indeed; for alighting on a copy of
the "Tattler" containing the letter of Mr.
Cheerful Scribbler which I have noted, lie
sent marked duplicates of it by post to Mr.
IVales and Miss Howland. After thia noble
thrust lie smoothed his front, gathered all
his hopes and fears and anger and love in
one deep resolve, and in the last week of
August went down to Newport to put it to
the touch.
Emma lowland, sitting alone in the twi-
light, murmured again the glad words of
Clare, simple echo as they had been to
her unspoken but governing thought: "Per-
haps I shall see him there! It seems even
like a certainty, and yet how far away,
how dreamlike! I wonder would he think
me much changed; I wonder -"
"Ah, you poor dear! I thought it was
only about time drive, and behold, a long list
of instructions from mamma, which has kept
me all this time. Letters from New York;
and fancy you dear impassive thing! -
our passage taken in the Russia fbr the middle
of next month! I wonder what the Russia
is like. I heard Captain Murray say time
China was an 'old tub'; but China is a bug
way from Russia, is n't it? I should not
'admire,' as that excruciating smirk from
'Bost'n' sags, to 'go to sea in a tub,'- would
you? If you are n't too tired, dear, dcs
come and play some of those delightful sona-
tas now in the dusk before supper, they
make one so romantic and so hungry"'
It was a happy chance that led Mrs. Jen-
nings to note, among the contents of her

78

CHOISY.

79

mail that afternoon, a brown-wrapped paper a little remorse for having held him in sus-
addressed in a coarse, sprawling hand to picion, and she spoke warmly under the
Emma; to note it curiouAy, and, impelled sense of reI~cf.
by an indescribable feeling, to break the "By a chance she has not, poor child;
cover and glance across the sheet, where a it would have been a misery for her. And
inarke'd paas~ge at once fixed her eye. She would you believe it? some one sent her
read it once, twice, and then never rested a marked copy of the paper!"
until the paper was in ashes. Many a time "My God! - Your pardon, Mrs. Jen-
afterwards she reverted to the circumstance nings; can it be possible?"
with something like a superstitious thrill; "It fell into my hands, fortunately. It
but at the time she only wrinkled her brows amazed me. I did not think she had an
in angry bewilderment. enemy in the world."
"Who sent it? could he have done it? The expression of the broker's face was
If he did, I will know it; and ~f he did-" a fine simulation of grief and anger.
The ordinarily placid, handsome face  "Have you preserved the paper or wrap-
boded no good to the one who dwelt under per? Is there any clew by which we might
the weight of that suspicion, should it prove trace the cowardly act to its perpetrator?"
to be warranted.                        "I burned them  both instantly. Better
thus; and since the evil was prevented, it
matters little~who the wretch was."
ChAPTER XIII.                 "I should like to know," he mid, grimly;
A GAIN OF GROUND.             "but the danger remains. The matter is
something that will be much talked of, and
WHEN Mr. Huntley called at the cottage it is to be feared that she will hear the
after his arrival at the seaside, he found story, in spite of every precaution. I dis-
himself, as usual, in the hands of Mrs. Jen- covered that Mr. Wales had read it, and
flings. He was thoroughly convinced that ventured to suggest that it would be very
this lady latterly lay in wait for him on all painful to Miss lowland; she will learn
occasions, so inevitably did she precede all nothing through him, 1 'm sure."
others on the scene whenever he presented "Nor in any way, so far as I can prevent
himself at the cottage. it. I shall be glad to have your assistance,
"Ali! Mr. Huntley, how do you do?" Mr. Huntley, in that. I will call the
she said, giving her hand to him with her girls."
usual cordiality, and, turning to the domes- Mr. Huntley was jubilant over the marked
tic, told him not to summon Miss Howland kindliness of these words. "By Jove! I
immediately, she would do that herself, believe she thought it was I! And how
"I beg your pardon, Mr. Huntley, but, be- glad she was to discover her mistake - The
fore the girls come down, I wish to speak triumphs of innocence are sweet, and I 'm
with you on a subject of great importance." better by several tricks with her at any
The gentleman buckled on his armor and rate. Courage! ~non infant I"
filled his lungs in preparation for an attack. Mrs. Jennings, going out on her errand,
He was never quite sure of Mrs. Jennings; said to herself, "I almost wish the child
he feared everything, and was or tried to be would fancy him; it will be a long wait
in readiness fir anything, but it must be for that flyaway now, and after all- The
owned that he was never free from a degree scampllam out of all patience with
of trepidation in her presence. him!"
"I wished to ask you," continued the And Huntley had reason to congratulate
lady quietly, but regarding him closely, "if himself upon an improved state of affairs
you had seen a certain wretched bit of gos- during the days that followed. There was
sip which appeared lately in some New a marked relaxation in the vigilant watch
York paper: it was in a Paris letter." of the elder lady, and a return of composure
I~untley breathed easier. - He was quite in Emma, who was only too glad to shield
equal to any situation where~ the quality of herself in the belief that his feelings had
deceit simply was called into play; it did been misjudged, - a belief that his guard-
not even alarm him to think himself sus- ed bearing tended to confirm. Indeed, it
pected. His assumed distress was perfect. might almost have been judged at the time
"Good heavens! has that reached here that it was to the laughing Clare rather than
already? I heard of it myself but yester- to the invalid girl that his heart pointed.
day, and you have h~t forestalled me in But he was only watching his chance, and
speaking of it, Mrs. Jennings. It was in it came of course; it always does.
great part my object in coming down to They were all walking on the cliffs one
warn you. Has Miss Howland - I trust it afternoon, when Emma was overtaken by
has not reached her." sudden fatigue, a circumstance of frequent
The lady felt it impossible to question the occurrence 'iatterly. She returned to the
sincerity of his troubled face; she even felt cottage, and he accompanied her, of course;.


80                          CHOISY.

he could not do less; and she could not
refuse to permit him. He was tenderness
itself in arranging the big chair and its
cushions in the cool parlor, full of a play-
ful, petting attention and merry words
that won her smiles and almost her heart.
Talked to as a woman, petted as a child!
Do it' well, 0 reader mine! and she is
yours!
"I am ashamed to have been such a
trouble~ to you, Mr. Huntley, and I will re-
lieve you now; you must rejoin the oth-
ers."
He looked the picture of dejection; but
0, how his heart was battling in its strong
walls! He needed all his matchless self-
control now.
"And thus you reward me by sending
me away!" he said, with comic but mean-
ing melancholy.
"0 no!" said Emma, uneasily, "but I
thought-"
"Let me stay, please. I will be good.
Shall I read you something" (it was so in-
nocent to be read' to !) - something from
this?" he added, taking a little volume
from the table. "It looks like a favorite;
well used."
Could there be danger in that calm face?
She looked at him covertly, and smiled
when she saw the book.
"Would it amuse you to read that?" she
asked.
"I especially admire Heine," he respond-
ed quietly, turning the pretty leaves; "once
I was quite diseased with his verse, 1 as-
sure ~'on; there are some rare gems among
the Lieder, this, for example, -
'Du bist wie eiae Blume
So hold und schiin und rein.'
I see you have marked it. And fancy him,
the man of reckless, dissolute life, writhing
upon a bed of agony and dictating the soft-
est, sweetest lines in poetry!"
"It is strange," answered Emma, absent-
ly; but whether it were Heine on whom
her thought rested, or the present Huntley,
who was one never-ending revelation, it
would be difficult to determine.
He toyed idly with the book for some
time in silence, and she, stealing a glance
at him, felt her fears rising again.
"The thought that you are going away
so -soon and so far haunts m~ and spoils all
my efforts to be agreeable," he cried at la'~t,
tossino' the l~jou volume upon the table des-
perate~y. "I can't think what will become
of us when you are gone, and yet I doubt
if you have many regrets."
"0 Mr. Huntley, that is not kind!
One does not go away from home without
regrets. It is only the companionship of
Mrs. Jennings and Clam that reconciles
me to it at all."
it was not much to say, but she said it

more warmly than she thought.' There
was another interval of silence, in which she
felt his eyes upon her, and grew almost
faint with dread, straining her ears in the
desperate hope that some one would come.
But no one did.
"And you have no idea when you may
return," he continued, pathetically. "Mrs.
Jennings speaks of spending several years
abroad; should you remain so long away
also?"
"0 no ! - that is, I think not. It will
depend - I - I had not thought much
about it."
She had struggled bravely to form a con-
nected sentence, having all the time a shud-
dering consciousness that he had risen and
come to her side; but for her life she could
not raise her eyes. He stood there a mo-
ment, silent, and then spoke in low, tremu-
lous tones that she lono' remembered.
"Miss Howland -~mma - do not go,
or, if you will, let me go with you."
There it was! all she had feared and
dreaded so much! What could she say?
O for Mamma Jennings - anybody - or
an earthquake! She made a mighty ef-
fort and met his eyes. There were tears in
them, and this vanquished her.
"0 Mr. Huntley, I am so sorry! I am
afraid I did - did not understand."
He was on his knee and had her hand,
kissing it softly and trying to catch her eye.
"My darling! may I tell you all?"
Something flashed and thundered in her
brain. "Charley! Charley!" was its bur-
den. She snatched her hand away with a
shuddering spasm. "0 no, no, no! for-
give me, Mr. Huntley. I ha~ e been wrong.
I did not dream until Mrs. Jennings told -
I don't know what I am saying. Please
leave me - some other time -" Her agi-
tation was terrible; it frightened him, and
he got up quickly.
"My dear Miss Howland, I beg your par-
don. I have erred; forgive me, if you can;
I shall not offend again. There, I see them
coming; I will go away."
The sad, contrite tone reassured her and
gave her strength to speak. "One mo-
ment, Mr. Huntley. It is I who should ask
forgiveness. I fear I deceived myself and
deceived you. 1 never supposed, never
thought of you as anything more than a
friend. I am very sorry -1 beg -"
"Do not speak of it more, Miss How-
land," he cried earnestly, and his struggle
to look cheerful smote her to the beast;
"save yourself any further pain. I forgot
myself; will you forget that I did so?
Even at my age," he added, with a sad
smile, "men are not always masters of
themselves, you see. I regret having given
you a moment's pain; I shall have
more -"

A  GAIN   OF GROUND.                           81
"0 Mr. Huntley -"                   j sped through the night over the New Haven
"C'en est fait! they are coming in now. Road," and what a darling she is! I called
I shall not see them again. Will you please I her an angel, and she is one: Lucifer ought
present my regrets? I shall go back to to know. She will remember that, too, and
town to-night. May I ask it? Miss Emma, the kisses on her hand, fbr she likes me-
we shall still be good friends, shall we more than she knows. Bah I with a clear
not?"                                 track I 'd win her in a month; but there 'a
She gave him her hand quickly, and said that infernal European business -
through her tears, "Always! always, Mr.  "TIcKETs!"
Iltintley."                             "Allez au doable!"
He pressed the hand to his lips, and she  The self-possessed functionary, not being
felt his tears fall on it. "Thank you! you conversant with the French tongue, only
are an angel, Miss Howland. Adieu!" smiled blandly at the cross gent with the
And he was gone.                      mustache; but he carried the memory of
Mrs. Jennings, coming in, found Emma that cold, handsome face in his mind, which
crying silently in her chair. "Hoity- was a dictionary of faces, for months. "Not
toity! what 's this?" She had a shrewd a nice boy when he is ugly, I should say,"
suspicion what "it" was; she was only was his comment upon it.
anxious to learn results. Emma got up   The "European business "was, indeed, a
and hid her head in the "mamma's" bosom subject of sore distress to the broker. With
with a sob.                           the perverse blindness of a lover he had all
"He has been here. I was so unhappy; along refused to share the general belief in
but perhaps it was best I should tell him, Emma's declining health. As her indispo-
after all. Was it not, mamma?"        sition kept her out of society at Newport, he
"Of course it was, dear, and I had fairly regarded it with a certain satisfaction, and
given up the hope of balking such a very Mrs. Jennings's unpleasant expose' of its
persistent gentleman. And what did the causes had not tended to make him dwell
darling say?"                         much on the subject. Aside from this con-
"I don't know; I can't remember, I was sideration, the foreign trip assumed the
so startled; only he was so good and noble! character of an imposition in his eyes; he
He spared me all the pain, and has it all gave the plan inelegant names, and chafed
himself;poorman! lam 50 glad, though; and fretted over it without having dared to
we are croing to be good friends always!" venture an opposing word, and without ar-
Mrs. inningss secretly elevated her brows driving at any expedient for his own benefit.
to the extreme limit of their range, but He could follow; but as his affairs stood at
patted the head on her shoulder kindly, the moment it would be an irreparable
and said, "I am glad it is over, dear. damage to his business' interests to leave
Now the ghost is laid, and we shall not have them. Thus the pleasant thought he brought
to be sueh schemers any more. It was high away from Newport was neutralized by op-
time, too'; we must go to town next week posing troubles, and he took his way down
and bid everybody good by; write a million town the next mornincr in a
letters, pack a million trunks, and receive a gloomy state of mind.  feverish and
million commissions before we go down to Who is brave is fortune-favored, per-
the seas. There, dry those eyes, and no haps; but to be "born lucky" is better, as
tales out of school to the girls; but I need the world 'voes, than to be born rich.
not tell you that. Is Mr. Huntley coming When HuntYcy arrived at his office, he
to ten, as he promised?" found a note from Mr. Walesbegging his
"No, he goes back to town, and I am to presence at the banker's at his convenience.
present his regrets."                 There was no question of convenience in
"That is better. I suppose he has let that and similar cases, however; he always
his business go to the dogs, all for you, you went at once.
invincible young woman! Never mind, he A great corporation of the Great West,
is not the one to go into a decline; and he driven to certain measures for the improve-
will be a nice friend, even if he was such a ment of their commercial facilities, had need
dreadful lover.~~ of money for their plans, = very much mon-
There was, in truth, no incipient indica- ey, indeed, to raise which they issued bonds,
tion of a "decline" in Mr. Huntley's man- published their resources, and came before
ncr as he betook himself to town that night. the financial world as borrowers, in the
One would have inferred, from the tenor of usual way. It was desired to place a portion
his thoughts, that he had secured much, if of the loan abroad, and Mr. Wales, in whose
not all, he had hoped for in this superb final hands the matter rested, found himself in
effort at the sea-shore. want of an able and clever agent to go out
"How the child trembled!" said the with the bonds. He bethought himself, at
gentleman to himself, as deep in the deli- once, of Huntley.
cious memory, and curled up in his seat, he "If you can arrange your affairs to that
11


82

CHOISY.

end, and undertake the negotiation, it will journey can be made leisurely, and making
be a service to us and ~in advantage to it thus you will find it very delightful. The
yourself. In any cas~, you will be compen- beautiful Rhone Valley will be in its loveli-
sated for your time, and, if successful, share est dress, - vineyards turning to gold, with
the benefits. The company will allow you distant mountains whitening with early an-
an eighth of one per cent as a commission tumn snows, and the softest, haziest skies in
on all sales at the agreed price; you know the world. It is a glorious country, and full
the quality of the bonds, and I think they of fascinations," continued the broker, warm-
will go off well, both in the English and ing with his memories; "I have walked
German markets, even to the whole amount every yard of it and recall it, with peculiar
of six millions. Think it over, Mr. Hunt- pleasure. You should stop at Dijon, which
ley. I will only add that we will receive is one easy stage from Paris, and thence to
any transfers of account from you at our Avignon, avoiding Lyons, which is uninter-
office, or otherwise assist your business, dur- testing and unclean, and an infliction after
incr your absence, with pleasure." Paris. The other towns are old, quaint
'~VIr. Huntley maintained a careful defer- places, and will amuse you, and the Dc la
ence to appearances, and went away with Cloche at the former, and Palais Royal at
due gravity of countenance to "think it the latter, are fine specimens of the old-
over"; but in fact his heart had bounded at time provincial inns of France; they bear
the proposition, and it was with some diffi- about the same relation to the vaunted
culty, as he subsequently assured the man English inns that a fine glass of Cbs Vougeot
in the glass, that he had restrained himself does to a tankard of muddy beer. rfhe
from "embracing the old brick on the ladies will find abundant matter for sight-
spot!"                                 seeing and enjoyment ;,the noble Ricuzi's
He accepted the agency promptly, and prison-house stands still at Avignon, I
found nothing in the prospect to regret, cx- think; and, indeed, it is not possible to con-
cept the fact that his departure must be vey a foretaste of the peculiar charm of the
postponed for some months. A single con- country, which makes itself felt at every
tingency now remained which was not step. The very stones will sing to you,
pleasant to contemplate, -Miss lowland Miss Clare, that you are on the old 'road
might meet her cousin in Paris. It was not to Rome.' You must by no means omit to
possible to overestimate the danger of such have 'Childe Harold' and Macaulay's
an encounter; he trembled to think of it, 'Lays' in your handy-bag!"
and planned carefully to prevent it. A nice "How delightful!"
calculation based on Mrs. Jennings's itiner- "Once at Marseilles and on the Mcdi-
ary, and giving the party a brief sojourn at terranean, you will cease to regret Paris, if
London and Paris, got them safely en route you have not already done so. There is a
for the South before the return o~the fash- spell which hangs about the shores of that
bonable world to the latter capital, and ren- wonderful sea which is not to be described.
dered it improbable that the travellers Ah, those days! I am young again when I
would encounter young Wales there, unless think on them!"
he were warned of their coming and has- Mr. Huntley smiled curiously, while Clare
tened to meet them. To guard against this sharply resented the imputation thus cast
he wrote out in express terms to Somers: upon his youth. But it was very charming
"If any letters arrive for him of later date to listen to him when he talked thus,; Clare
than August 20, manage it that he does was in ecstasies, and Emma listened with a
not get them; and if he should be in town, soft smile that warmed the gentleman's
by any chance, in September, you must get heart. Once indeed Miss Jenninos's un-
him away. Move heaven and earth to pre- petuosity led to the expression of a wish
vent the renconire; everything depends that Mr. Huntley was going With them: "It
upon it. I leave it t') you in confidence; would be so nice to have such - such a
will send more funds by the next steamer." "Courier!" he said, laughing. "I should
Further *than this,~ lie presumed upon be very happy in the office, happier than
"some acquaintance with the country" to you think; but it is hardly possible. That
give Mrs. Jennings advice touching her I may pay you a flying visit during the win
route of travel. "Considering Miss How- ter is, however, quite probable."
land's health, which, of course, is to be "Is it, really? How glad I am 1"
thought of avant tout, I should s~y it would "Business," he added, smiling; "nothing
not be well to remain at Paris later than* more or less than your condemned clement,
the first week of October. Nothing could Miss Clare, points to a voyacre abroad for
be more trying, J fancy, than the disagree- me in some months; and if 1' were sure it
able and variable weather of that period; would be agreeable-"
it often grows suddenly cold, and is invari- "Are n't you ashamed, sir! naughty
ably wet. Then it is not too early to start man! Of course, we should like - There,
South, since, as you are situated, the long I 'II not flatter your conceit; but if you

THE LAST STRAND.                               83
are in Europe and do not come to see encouragement and satisfaction from his
labors.
"Then it is settled," he cried, laughing. The party sailed in due course. The
His little znanceuvre had won a shy, pleased broker was kindness itself, and attentive to
glance from Emma, and a flush to her cheek, the last, performing a multitude of little ser-
and he was content. "Come I will, though vices which were highly appreciated by the
the Alps were multiplied by hundreds! I ladies. Towards Emma his manner was
shall find you all resplendent in Menton- ever delicate and reassuring, and so full of
naise hats, and brown as berries with that guarded tenderness that the poor girl was
Southern sun that penetrates everything, made almost remorseful at times, and shed
j Miss lowland, you must promise me to get some secret tears over the thought that she
~ horribly tanned and very strong against my had marred the happiness of such a noble
coming."                               soul. At the last moment on the deck of
Emma blushed again, for the words con- the steamer, when she gave him her trem-
cealed a tenderness beneath their gayety. bling hand and noted the struggle which
"So she shall !" cried Clare; "but do was only too evident in his face, her own
you remember Mentone, Mr. Huntley? is it emotion had nearly vanquished her; he
a long time since you were there?" was singing for joy at the remembrance of
"Ah! yes; I should frighten you if I the flooded eyes and faltering tones for days
told you how many years, but I remember afterwards.
it well; a little, sleeping town nestling "Good by! Miss Emma, I shall watch
about its one cathedral tower, as they all the telegrams anxiously to hear of your safe
do, with splendid lines of mountain behind arrival at Queenstown. A thousand good
it, and a little, two little indented bays on wishes! You must get quite well, you
either side, as blue as the ribbon in Miss know; and beware of London and Paris. I
lowland's hair. Rather soiled and dark shall see you again, perhaps, by the New
the old houses are on close examination, Year."
and not always breathing of Araby; best "I sincerely hope so. I should be very
looked at a pace or two away, as is every- glad. Good by! you have been so kind,
thing in Italy, even to the incomparable I do not know how to thank you."
Seggiola under the glass. These old "You have more than done so; you have
places do not change, though modern acces- made
series have crept in largely on the Riviera, voir 1,,me happy, for I still hope! Au re-
by reason of the winter colony of foreign And the strong pressure of his hand
visitors; and our original, picturesque vii- seemed to linger still when Fire Island light
lage is fringed with new villas and enor- was a star on the horizon, and the home-
mous hotels. The mountains, seamed with land had sunk in the sea.
terraces of lemon and olive trees, and the
curved beach strewn with boats and nets,
are unaltered pictures, and the people them-
selves, peasants and fisher-folk, are just the CHAPTER XIV.
same in dress and lano~u
of the Moor."      ~ age as in the days          THE LAST STRAND.
Clare filled the pause with a sj~h: "0 Tun heart of Madame la Concierge at
dear, I wish we were there now!" the fine Haussmannic tenement in Boule-
"I am familiar by accident with Mentone; yard Malesherbes was made glad in the
a land-slide on the Corniche cut me off early days of September by the return of
there when en route for Lower Italy and the Monsieur Somers. Delightful as was the
East, and our party found it so delightful gay life at Trouville, and brilliant as his
that we lingered there many days. ft was career in that festive atmosphere had been,
only a little fishing-village then, - Pied- Monsieur Somers found it necessary to tear
niontese, I think; but it had aJready two or himself from the enchanted ground, and
three hotels, and its vicinity to Nice had return to ParL~s after the sweet interval of
brought it into some notice. It is a lovely three weeks. He had nobly fulfilled the
spot; I can recall none which exceeds it in duties of his position at the charmi~ig resort,
point of scenery and the dazzling trans- however, and there remained to him in
parency of the air; the hill-tops seem cut separating from its little world of light-
out from the blue sky beyond them. You hearted people the satisfaction of feeling
find nothing like it below, until you reach that his departure was as triumphal as had
(4r~ece."                             been his entree. He had religiously taken
Mr. Huntley's glowing descriptions would twenty-one surf-baths, eaten twenty-one cx-
be occasionally varied by discreet allusions cellent and sustaining dinners, involving the
to the danger and unpleasantness'of Paris auxiliary item of forty-two bottles of very fair
in the autumn, and his suggestions were so Bordeaux, danced at twenty-one delicious
attentively received that he gathered much soire'es, and flirted desperately but syste-

I,


THE LAST STRAND.                  85

84                        CHOISY.

matically, as they do in France, with sixty-
three alluring females, allowing a mod-
est average of three per diem. Like the
well-graced' actor that he was, he left a
melancholy void behind him, and came
away glorified; duty called him to his post,
and, greater than Hannibal in Capun, to his
post went he.
It is scarcely worth while to allude to an
indiscretion which might possibly have in-
fluenced his determination and led to his
withdrawal in any case. He was not often
guilty of indiscretions, it costs so little to
be discreet also "in France"; but he was
only mortal, and down at Trouville, among
the other recreations, they sometimes in-
dulge in a lively, private game of baccarat;
and #ancy baccarat with that ravishing crea-
ture, to whom you have just been making
heated love in an alcove, gracefully taking
the bank and inviting you, with a smile that
kills, to faire votrejeu I
"By the sweet gods!" cried the gallant
Somers afterwards, recounting certain ex-
periences to Charley, "a man might have
l9st the Bank of England under the cir-
c~i instances. They had me in for a hun-
dred pounds before I knew it, but - I had
my sport, er que voulez-vous?"
I say scarcely worth the while, because a
note from Charley Wales saying that he
should he in Paris by the 10th made it
imperative for Somers to go up; questions of
baccarat, pounds, shillings, and pence aside.
For he had received the letter of instruc-
tions from New York, and had a charge to,
keep, debating the management of which'
he awaited the coiner from Switzerland.
Charley burst in at the quarters on the
day named; tired, car-dusted, but. brown
and handsome as the sun-god from the hills.
Somers received him with high melodrama.
"Do my eyes deceive me? Is it some
cruel, deceptive dream? Speak! thou spirit
of the Alps 1"
"Rien qu'un mortel, mon ami, and a
deuced hungry one at that!" responded
Charley, with a laugh; there was a new
fluency in his French, that made Somers
smile inwardly. "You poor boy! I believe
you well. Three' months of Gruybres
cheese and mountain honey! I envy your
appetite I Dieu nierci! Paris is desolate,
but Paris still dines. I am awfully glad to
see you, though; came by Lyons, I sup-
pose."
"No, Basle and Strasbourg, - strateget-
ical lines, you know."
"To be sure, but it did n't matter. You
know, I presume -
"0 yes! I know," said the young man,
rather carelessly; "no escape for the wicked.
I suppose they have had it pretty well out
by this time, however, among themselves.
I tell you what, I was never so near mur-

during any one as those sneaking club-
men; there 's a tail to that affair. Mais
enjin, how about this dinner?"
"I know no word so joyful; let us
away! Why! do you know, your welcome
face has rescued me at the brink, plucked
me from the Slough of Despond? It's
horrible here now; Paris is always horn. Y
ble in September. One kind of everybody
is out of town, and another kind is iii.
that is to say, every one you wish to see is
away, and every one you particularly desire
not to see arrives. Shall it be Yoisin's?
Bien! As 1 was saying, it is the heyday
of tourists; the place is rammed and jammed
with them, and my especial horror, the
peripatetic parson, with blue spectacles and
a red guide-book, runs you down in every
corner; he is more numerous than the
sergeants de ville, and quite as ubiquitous.
And your own countrymen swell the
throng; to joke weakly, they make it more
swell,' without making it less disagree-
able. Fact is, I suppose, they arc all mi-
grating homewards at this time, and make
a week in Paris a sort of crowning episode
to their travels; they swarm by the cab-
ful in the streets, crowd you into a corner
at all the cafe's, and turn the whole place
into a menagerie of the nations. I always
dread the time, and generally manage to
avoid it. I have only just come up from
Trouville."
"So I presumed. I fear I was the cause
of tearing you from its delights."
"Not entirely; I should have come up
any way, though it was jolly, - too jolly,
if anything; one forgets the rules in such
an atmosphere."
Later in the evening, when the gentle-
men were enjoying a quiet hour of cigars
and conversation in their quarters, Somers
said, "I have n't ventured to ask if you
have any plans; of course, you will not
stay here through this epidemic of tourists
for the next four weeks; going below, per-
haps!'
"No, I am conge' until - until the. Bar-
onne comes to town," said Charley, awkward-
ly; "I was going down to do the Baron the
honor of shooting over his domains, but it
was arranged differently. To tell the truth,
I did not care to go; I have n't lived in
France like you, you know, for twenty
years. I suppose there 's Cognac ili-dedans,"
he added, going to the sideboard and
drinking a liberal glass of the fine liquor.
"Nina did not press it either, so I caine
here at the last moment. By Jove! this
brandy is elixir after that horrible eau de
vie de raisin one gets in Switzerland!"
"I believe you, and Madame will come
up early, sans doute. You left her well?"
"Charming! She said she should come
by the end of October. By Jove! Ned -

bahl No! I don't want to stay here;
what can we do?"
"Do? Fifty things! anything but re-
main here. ~ou make me live again. I
was afraid you would want to plant your-
self in town, and live on sighs and palpita-
tions until - Allons! what do you say to
Brussels, - belle Bruxelles? I know it ivell,
and it's nice; if there were no Paris,
there would be only Brussels, Bois de la
Cambre, and Waterloo. We can kill time
there and thereabouts, and dodge the ex-
cursionists, have a look at K~inig Wilhelm
at Spa, and, if you fancy it, a run down
among those fine old ancestral connections
of you New-Yorkers, who go to the beaver
in place of the bee."
"Anything you like; you repudiate Tron-
ville, 1 observe."
"Ah! it would n't suit you now; chorus
of mermaids at the tenth hour, recitations
in sentiment till dinner, with slow music
and mgne-cljose, intensified by wine, truffles,
and gaslight up to any hour afterwards,
-' all things common else' for you, old fel-
low. Only the worn veteran like me,
vois-tu, whose 'young dreams' have become
middle post nightmares, may cheat himself
with A transient flicker in the ashes when
Aphrodite is chez-elle by her native element,
and the accessories are pretty. I was re-
juvenated at Trouville; you would be hor-
ribly g~nc2'
"'Most reverend Nestor! Let me em-
brace thee, good old chronicle, that hast so
long walked hand in hand with Time.' As
you elect, however; Brussels be it!"
"'Up men, and at 'em!' Shall we go
over to-morrow?"
"The sooner the better, I should say;
you have made me really nervous about I
exposing myself to the army of invasion
hereabouts."
"As well you may be; I shudder to think
of your fate if you fell in with Brown and
Jones -"
"'Thompson' vous-voulez dire?"
"Exactly; 'acquaintances from home,'
and the course of whiskey, Avenue Mon-
taigne, and apr~s quoi they would drag you
through with all the national ardeur!
Apropos, I bad a young Cock.ney consigned I
to me early in the summer, a4 rare circum-
stance, I am happy to say, - tourist in em- t
bryo, but will be a marvel of his species if c
he lives. I concentrated all Paris for him
into two hours of cab, dinner at Bignon's, I
and 'Bullier' in the evening, and packed a
him off for Italy the next day. I thought
the world might escape him, through the a
happy instrumentality of the Maremma, -
fancy Rome in July! - but he burst in on a
me here four days ago, and delivered him- ti
self of all Italy, from Vesuvius to the Sim-
plon, in a solid hour of the Holborn ver-

nacular. He was evidently under the
impression that no one in modern times had
ever 'swam in a gondola' but himself; but
I put a wedge in his ~eonceit by assuring
him that in having failed, as he acknowl-
edged with confusion and regret, to look
up Van Dyck's portrait of the Wandering
,Jew in the Uffizi, he had missed the finest
thing in Italy. It poisoned all his souvenirs,
and my revenge was delicious!"
They went next day to Brussels, where a
fortnight sped pleasantly. Then they looked
in at Spa, and found it rather dry; so they
came back and took the "run" down
through the Low Countries, for the fat cattle
and very fat good people of which Somers's
enthusiasm knew no bounds. After this
the excursion took a wider scope, and they
found themselves drifting up the Rhine
country, glorious in autumnal dress, and
straying in at Homburg and Baden, where
the summer season was in its last ao~onies.
It was all so pleasant, and made to" cover
such a deal of time, that Charley awoke one
day with a start of surprise at the fact that
the "end of Oct ber," which had seemed
so far away, was close at hand, and he came
back to Paris at top-speed and in some-
thing, of a flutter. Nor was he more than
prompt; on the same day the household in
the Avenue de la Reine Hortense was called
upon to receive ~ts mistress.
Some days after his return Charley
strolled in at his banker's, where his ap-
pearance created an unmistakable sensation.
He stopped, as one learns to do, by the reg-
ister, and ran a swift, careless glance over
the long lists of arrivals, going back over
the weeks of his absence. An entry - he
dl but missed seeing it - caught and fixed
his eye -
Mrs. Charles Jennings and family, New
York, Hotel Westminster.
Miss Emma Howland, New York, Hotel
Westminster.
He read the names twice, with a glad
shrill at first, with a sinking of the heart at
~he last.
Some one at his elbow asked, "Mr.
IVales, is it not?"
One of the principals was standing by
iim with a letter in his extended hand.
"It was privately enclosed, with instruc-
ions to deliver to you personally. You are
juite a stranger with us, Mr. Wales."
"I have been out of town - thank you.
s - are the party - I would say~Mrs. Jen-
iings, still in the city?"
"No; they remained a short time only,
,nd went South about the 20th, I think.
~sked several times after you, but, as you
re aware, we could give them no informa-
ion."
"Yes - ah - you have their address?"
"Nice, I believe; or no, Mentone.


86                        CHOISY.                                                     THE LAST STRAND.                    87

Bi'iggs, what is the address of Mrs. Jennings
and party of New York?"
"Mentone, Alpes Maritimes, sir."
"As I thought; there was a young lady
with them in poor health, I believe. Beg
pardon! What did you say?"
"Nothing - that is - they left no mes-
sage for me, I suppose?"
"None beyond the expression of great
regret at not finding you here, as they had
evidently expected to do."
Charley struggled to ask one more ques-
tion: "You saw Miss Howland, I presume."
"I did not have the pleasure, I regret to
say. She did not call at the hank, and I
was not able to see her when I paid my re-
spects at the hotel. She was poorly on the
voyage, I understood, and the journey South
was pushed on her account."
"Thank you," said Charley, turning to
go.
"When it is convenient, Mr. Wales, there
are some rather important matters of busi-
ness -"
"I will see you to-morrow, sir." And with-
out more words the young man, unable any
longer to command his emotions, hurried
into the street and to his apartments. He
had glanced at the letter, and, recognizing
his father's writing, had simply crushed it
in his hand, as he made his way homeward.
Once there he dropped in a seat.
"Emma here! gone South, and ill, and
not a word or a line to me!"
Then he tore open the note hurriedly, in
response to a sudden, crushing thought, and
found his answer there. It was a brief one,
but he read but half of it. What he read
was this:-
"Your conduct seems to indicate a per-
sistent intention to alienate yourself utterly
from your family and friends, and I have
ceased to hope that my admonitions can in-
fluence you. But I make a final request,
that you will so far respect the feelings of
your cousin, who is going abroad in broken
health, as to conceal from her your disrepu-
table connections, of which she, at present,
knows nothing. You would best do so by
avoiding a meeting with her. I have only
to add that the property descending to you
from your mother and grandlhther has beeii
p laced at your disposal, through the Messrs.
Tompkins, and is put entirely beyond my
control-"
He stopped here, letting the crushed pa-
per fill to the floor, and rose mechanically
to his feet just as Somers came in at the
door. The Bohemian was frightened by
his face.
"Hallo! I say - my dear boy, is it bad
news'?"
The presence of the man strengthened
Chancy. "Bad is not the word," he said
hoarsely, and, striding over to the cabinet,

he drank off a great draught of brandy at
a single swallow. Then he looked hard at
Somers with unmeaning eyes, and added
greatly to the alarm of that gentleman by
laughing in a wild, discordant way.
"Why, Charley!" cried Somers, gently,
"what is it, old fellow? Can I help you?"
"Listen, Somers," said Charley, in a tone
that made the trained man of the world
tremble for a moment where he stood, "I
don't know much about you, but I suspect
you would hardly go straight to Heaven for
your good works, eh?"
"Devil a bit, I fear; but Charley -"
"Never mind, I have been hit hard. I
used to be one of your good boys, I did, by
G-d I But there was something undivine
that shaped my end. Look here! there was
one thing left in the world I cared about, -
cared about more than I knew till just now.
It would have kept me always from going
too low, I think; but they have cut me out
of that!"
"But, my dear old boy -
"Listen, let 's have a clear understanding
and no mistakes. I like you wcll enough,
and I don't want to be a nuisance to you;
but I tell you, Ned, I am going the whole
pace from this out. It 's the only thing left
and I 'ye got the money."
"All right, old fellow. It is not Ned
Somers who will cry cover, be your game
what you like." Somers spoke cheerily,
but he was watching the young man closely,
and whirled a chair under him just as he
sank down, overcome by the combined et~
feet of liquor and excitement. Then he
put his hand on Charley's shoulder, and
spoke earnestly, "I am your man for any-
thing you like, Charley; but it 's a mistake
to take these things too bitterly to heart.
You say you are hit hard. 1 don't know
how, and it.'s none of my business, but I am
sorry. I caught it pretty bad myself at
your age. My God! what are you to do
with the chances at twenty-five? I took it
badly, too, though I am not so prone to do
so as you, perhaps; but I had n't a friend
in the world then, in my strait, - et voih~!
I have pulled through pretty well, have n't
I? My good fellow! these yelping curs
that hound down a man for some slip in life
run nine in ten 'guiltier than him they
try.' Don't give them the chance to think
you felt the cut; that's the true philosophy
of it. Come, we must go and breakfast,
and send something after that liquor, or it
will play the deuce with your head. We '11
talk it out afterwards, and you will find
Ned Somers with you, heart and hand, in
anything you elect."
He got the young man on his feet, and,
subsequently, to the Helder, where he
tempted him with an exquisite d(jeuner,
and with ultimate success. In all his life

Somers had never felt an impulse so thor-
oughly unselfish and sympathetic as in that
moment, when he read the old story of
shipwreck which he knew so well in Char-
ley's white, stricken face. He had had ex-
cellent opportunities latterly to find out
more fully "what the young fish was made
of," and the result was an admiration and
liking for Chancy such as he had never
given to any other man, regarding, as he
did, the whole sex as his natural enemies.
And there was an unmistakable effort of
conscience in his soul just now. He saw
in Chancy's distress only Huntley's handi-
work, and cursed that gentleman soundly
in his heart for the same. He also felt his
own connivance, and felt it sharply, though
all in the dark as to its actual gravity and
consequences, and he made a desperate re-
solve.
Half-way down a bottle of Margaux he
asked Charley, guardedly, "Heard from
Huntley lately?"
"No; not in an age. I wonder at it,
too, since - I suppose," added Charley,
catching himself, "he is over head and ears
in business."
Tant micux for him, though I should
think he might find time to write you, such
friends as you seem to have been."
"Good fellow is Dick," said Charley,
carelessly, and drinking his wine rather
freely. "But perhaps he has gone along I
with the rest of them; does n't like my
'connections,' you know. BahI let us not
visit the good people, even in our thoughts,
lest we should incommode them! Order I
another bottle, will you, please? By Jove!
I believe I am engaged to ride with the
Banonne at three. I had nearly forgotten ii
it."                                   I
Somers had had it on his tongue's end to
make a clean breast of the whole business, I
so far as his connection with it went, and h
show up Huntleyin his true colors to Char- t~
ley. The words had fairly trembled on his a
lips; but it required no little resolution to
speak them, and the momentary diversion si
occasioned by the your~g man's words led b
to hesitation, and the hesitation demoral- p
ized him. The brave resolve faded, as it
had arisen, in a moment.
"It could scarcely have iltencd things h
now," said he to himself, as he sauntered h
upon the Boulevard, after parting from t(
Charley. His predominant sensation was
one of relief, and he recognized the inter-
position of chance as a saving demonstra- el
tion of some superior intelligence. "It cer- C
tainly would not have helped my case. Eh ta
6ien, laisser aller!" hI
And the probabilities involved in the fu- na
ture pursuance of this maxim of life, touch- se
ing himself and Charley Wales, formed the in
subject of his afternoon meditations, as he t1~

bent his steps towards the club-rooms in
the Rue Scribe. Arrived there, however,
he did not enter, but, acting upon a sudden
thought, walked on to the a esherbes,
where he went up to the pretty parlor, and
with some inconvenience fished out from
under the massive sideboard a crumpled
bit of paper. His quick eye had caught
it when he had come in and found Charley
so disturbed, and his equally quick foot
kicked it, unperceived, out of sight. It was
the letter with which the reader is familiar,
and which he now spread out and read
without scruple. He was mdmch perplexed
by its contents, as was ver~~ evident from
his countenance.
"It 's the old gentleman, of course, though
he does n't subscribe himself 'your loving
father,' or any of that sort of thing. 'Cous-
in,' eh? Whole party safe out of Paris, as
I knew before we left Baden~ I suppose
it is all here, but I can't make it out.
Something between the girl and Charley,
perhaps. I 'd have sworn to a woman
somewkere, by his face this morniwr. But
what can Dick Huntley possibly Lave to
do in such a case? He might - no, he
would n't dare!" He paced up and down
ron some time in silent meditation. "Just
is well I did n't peach," he continued,
recentlyy. "He 's the Devil's own Jack
it a turn, is Dick. 'Gad! 1 am frightened
:o think how near it I was. No, no, Ed-
rand, thou must look to thyself first, en
out eas. I 'm sorry, though, for the boy -
uch a boy as he is, too; ''t is ever thus
)elow, the noblest and the bravest,' etc.,
~ar example I"
And with this bit of melancholy mcmi-
nent he cut short his ruminations. He
~ut the letter where Charley would find' it.
The business instructions must be noted.
~y Jove! the figures are handsome," was
is commentary. And, catching a glimpse
rough the persiennes, at that instant, of
n inviting apparition in purple and velvet,
rhich stirred a memory of Trouville, he
nized his hat again, gave a twirl to the
londe whiskers, and hurried down to the
pleasant street of palaces.
"Eh bien! laisser allen!" The words
choed still in the bright, pretty room when
e was gone. The man, his nature, and
is life were pictured and embodied in the
~xt.
Out in a shaded byway of the Bois the
egant landau of Madame Ia Baronne
hoisy crept lazily down the long line of
11, dark trees, whose turning leaves trem-
Led and glistened far above in the latest
ys of an October sun. A marvellous en-
mble; an eq~uipage which typified lux-
'y; a collocation of animate and inanimate
incrs, forming an intelligent and respon-


88                       CHOISY.                                                     THE "WHOLE PACE."       *           89

sive whole, governed by the mistress-will.
The granq, high-spirited bays, instinctively
self-restrained and walking gravely, almost
softly, under the trees; ihe two bolt-up-
right figures on the box, which might be
men or statues in their graven immobility;
the soft-cushioned, soft-tinted interior, elo-
quent, in itself, of the sweet myth called
Ease.
The two who sat within were silent, and
wrapt in thought. Nina was leaning back,
and gazing dreamily away over the tree-
tops, not unhappily, it would seem, from
the shadow of a smile that played about
her mouth. Charley's eyes, wandering also
with a certain feverish restlessness, came
back and rested on the beautiful siren-face,
until that strange magnetism of the human
eye won an answering gaze from the Ba-
ronne, whose smile deepened then into one
soft, passionate, winning beyond words.
He turned towards her, and gathered up
the little hand which lay so softly in her
lap~ She caught it away with the same
silent smile, tore off the pretty glove with
one swift wrench, and put it back in his
own, bare, warm, and rosy.
"Nina," he said, in a low tone, that made
her look more closely and seriously in his
eyes, "do you remember once in Switzer-
land telling me that I must surrender all
the world, everybody, everything, for you,
and then being very cruel to me because I
begged a reservation?"
"Mais oui, monsieur I you were merchant;
you broke my heart. I do not forget it!"
"Pauvre pehie che'rie! ecoute-toi, to-day
I surrender it, Nina; today and forever I
am all your own!"
She sprang forward with a great flash of
joy in her face, and studied his an instant,
as if to read the full truth there, while a
last, lingering shadow stole out of her glad
heart, a shadow which had stubbornly kept
its place and poisoned her happiness. It
was all gone now; she kept her swimming
eyes on his, drew his hand to her heart,
and her lips murmured softly, "Bdbe'!"
And he leaned down and kissed her
silently.
The statues on the box gazed ever in the
air, the big bays tramped onward with
stately grace, and up above the yellow
leaves flashed and quivered in the sunset.
CHAPTER XV.
THE "WHOLE PACE."
THE winter that followed was one of un-
diminished glory and popularity for the
Saronne Choisy. Her empire remained
undisputed, her court as numerous and as
devoted as before. The splendor of her

entertainments was the marvel and delight
of Paris; her presence, the coveted guar-
anty of success in all social enterprises;
and her box at the thronged opera the very
centre from which radiated that subtle,
electric current which sets in motion the
delicate machinery of society. The world
in which she moved seemed at her feet,
governed by her caprice, and flattered by
her very breath; and in that French day
of days, le Jour de l'An, she might have sat
upon a throne and defied the simple fashion-
leader of the Tuileries to match her over-
flowing court. And yet there was a shad-
owy transformation as, when the curtain
rises upon a new act on our mimic stage,
we see only the self-same mise en scene, the
self-same players, but note at once a new
disposal. Some of the outward circle have
come within, some moved a little apart.
The play goes on, and in the swift unrav-
elling of the little plot the central figures
come more full&amp; before us in their individ-
ual parts; we are stirred with new and
startling chords, with wild, sweet melodies,
that speak to all the emotions of the human
heart, and blind us, in our enjoyment, to
the shadow of the denouement; but over all
lurks the saddening thought that the two or
three copyists of life to whom, in the open-
ing, we lent our ready sympathies, have
copied only too well, and are dooming us
to a destruction of our hopes.
The world gazed with a single eye still on
Nina Choisy, but not as before, and she saw
and felt the change. She saw it among her
own sex in the new-found confidence with
which some drew nearer, in the careful del-
icacy with which others fell away; and in
the unenibarrassed abandonment of that
thin mask of hesitating reserve among the
men, she saw it still more plainly. A
nameless tone that this society had once
possessed for her it possessed no longer.
Luxurious, reckless, even depraved as
may have been the social circles of the
Paris of thiit day, some good lingered in
her gilded salons. There was respect invi-
olate beneath tIme sneer at virtue, and a
pang followed the cold laugh at truth; no
man was altogether dead to its presence, no
woman could be callous tmp.its loss, and
where it moved it was known and felt, val-
ued by most, feared by all.
Nina had lived proudly in her conscious
superiority, and found delight in keeping
that wolfish world at bay. She could do so
no longer in the same spirit, and she felt
the change, but only as a change; in her
heart regret and bitterness had no place.
She had given her all, but she had re-
ceived an all in return, and she was con-
tent.
And as we see her, she was still a queen
in her world, and a qacen she would remain

A

to the end; there was in her nature no
atom of that sensuous grossness which could
ever reduce her below the level of the best
of her class. Wise questions for men to
argue, whIch they have argued since Sol-
omon in the vain hope to prove the woman
as bad as themselves.
She was happy, - briefly, guiltily, but as
completely as it is often allotted to a child
of earth to be. Those three summer months
in Switzerland had been one swift, golden
dream iii which every hope of her life, the
girl-visions of earlier days, had the fullest
fruition. In Charley the old, romantic ideal
was swallowed up in a far more splendid
reality. Young, noble in nature, with warm
strong passions like her own, and much of
the same graceful refining sentiment which
clothed her dreams; that fine, iinagina-
tive faculty which, being unearthly, gives a
better color to earthly things; he was all
she had craved, more than she had ever
dared to hope for. They lived through
those days like nature's children, where na-
ture had rolled a wilderness of grand old
hills about them, shutting out the prying
world beyond; and when, in the inevitable
course of things, that world found them out,
Nina, who reasoned while Chancy slept his
guilty sleep, sighed a tearful farewell to the
hour of Paradise, and nerved herself to hold
fast the substance of her happiness whose
first, brief glamour was gone. She came
back to her place in the field with the
strong woman's heart braced for the contest
she now foresaw; and though there were
moments when the sweet vision of lover's
life, of long, beautiful years of unbroken in-
tercourse with him alone in some unnoticed
corner of earth, arose in her brain, she dis-
missed them calmly, as became the woman
of the world, to whom the fancy was no
longer illusive. Readily, however, as she
did this, she could, never contemplate the
possibility of a change, of separation, of any
pause, indeed, in this new life. Her world-
ly prescience was all at fault, and she
shrank from the thought of a future without
him; it had been her one uneasy, haunting
fear, that he retained other ties in life which
might some day prove stronger than that
which bound him to her. Her joy at his
declaration in the Bois may then be im-
agined; it was beyond all speech, and found
expression only in the low-spoken pet-name
and the offered lips.
If, from this day, she found ~n alteration I
in hima new, almost fierce intensity at times,
coupled with reckless abandon, she con-
strued it gladly as a new proof that he had I
wholly embraced his sort. He threw him-
self into the glittering life (for in all places
and at all times he was the Baronne's rec-
ognized and envied attendant) with careless
ease, with a certain grace, indeed, that
12

won the admiration of the clever an4 criti-
cal circles in which they moved, and gave
him a new charm in Nina's fond eyes. The
beau petit Puritain, at whom she had some-
times made a laughing moue, had disap-
peared, and given place to the homme (le
eceur, sufficiently inflamed for even the
Parisian taste. No wonder that men found
a new charm in her, that in the glowing at-
mosphere of the Hotel Choisy the wild, gay
world revelled with an added e'tan and fbr-
got to pine for 01(1 Versailles and naughty
Regents. The tropic glories of the Second
Empire centered there, and thence distribu-
ted their intoxicating influence. Antony
sat down again with Egypt, and the mad
throng gathered to the feast.
Paris gossiped bravely over ce jeune
A mericain, who drove his grand trotters in
the Avenue do l'Imnperatrice with such re-
sistless dash, and who infused a rare anima-
tion into a certain coterie of distinguished
sportsmen by unprecedented figures at the
card-tables of the club.
" On dit," said one, levelling his lorgnette
at the Baronne's box, between the acts at
the Italien, "that he lost a hundred thou-
sand to Count Brie."
"Voyons! a hundred and fifty. Somers
told me so himself."
"Sapristi! mais comment cela? it is then
the American Crwsus!"
"Sais pas; his horses shame the stables
at St. Cloud, and they say a petit soupe~'
he gave at the Maison Dor~e after the last
Opera Ball was made to cost twenty thou-
sand."
"[neroyable! Mais oul; they were at
the ball together, I was told, - he and the
Baronne."
"Yes; and Somers sur le plancher in
Roman dress~iIe was superb; all the party
were in costume save Madame and the
American.~~
"Joli cela! and you saw them?"
"I saw Somers, he was magnificent; and
Brid and old Goujon lz la Grand Ture and
Marie Velours. Diable / it was an adven-
ture! Me, I was struggling to reach an
outlet, when I received a tremendous thrust
in my side from the elbow -of a robust gen-
tleman in splendid evening dress. You
should have seen him, - the lace shirt-front
and diamonds, satin-faced waistcoat, and
Kiemel's best coat quilted with glace' silk!
I turned in a rage, and met that round
laughing face with the thick blond curls
parted to the side like a boy's. It was Ma~
lame Marie, and I had only to kiss the
floor, while Somers, en service, was near
lying with laughter!"
"I fancy you, and the Baronne -"
"In a box with Monsieur and some others.
[did not see her."
"Studying for the masque, sans doute,


90

which was celebrated at the Hotel Choisy a
week later."
"You were there?"
"No, Bni6 told me something of it; but
it beggared description. The American
was Antinous in the scanty garb of Egypt,
clothed in a brown dye, Bni6 said; and the
Baronne an antique Helidniste, white toga or
something, shell cameos and tiara and san-
dals, with bare arms and bare ankles bound
in broad gold bands."
"Ciel! que j'eusse bu!"
The noble Somers was in clover in these
days, as may be imagined; the rejuvenating
influence of merry Trouville was a trifle
compared with the happy infusion of spirits
which he experienced in his active partici-
pation in Chancy's dashing career, for he
was still our hero's faithful companion in
arms. He was afflicted by no more twinges
of conscience, since never after that ineinor-
able day had he detected the faintest indica-
tion of a wound or bitterness in Chanley's
manner or words. If he reasoned upon the
matter at all, it was not with a view to dis-
cover if the young man's course of life was
prompted by any secret trouble. On the
contrary, it was to arrive invariably at the
satisfactory conclusion that "the boy" had
iIamensely improved his condition in life and
escaped that premature repression of the
mercurial tendencies which in his eyes was
the greatest misfortune of existence.
"'Gad I this is the sort of thing!" would
be his unspoken thought, as he sat by Char-
Icy and was whirled out the Neuilly way
behind the trottens, admired of all beholders.
"Fancy him tied to an apron-string, and
walking the dull, domestic beat; and he
might have been, and known no better.
A trifle too much of the spur, perhaps,"
he would further reflect, in the quietude of
their chambers; "but he rides well, and
nothing shakes him. It will all come right,
nothing more certain. We shall have
him duly installed in the seigniorial dig-
nities one of these days, and everybody will
live happy ever afterwards. Why does n't
the 'stomach' die now? Mais enfin! It
can't be long, and what a revolution we will
work then in the ine'naqe down below! I
thrill at the thoucrht, - boar-steaks and the
Burgundy of unto~id ages! Compi~gne shall
hide its diminished head. En attendant,
pas trop vite!"
'Let us give Somers due credit, too, for a
certain unperceived, but really judicious
guidance of Chancy's course. It was due
to him that the experiments at dearte' were
less frequent than they otherwise would have
been, and far less costly than he, in a mo-
ment of mischievous exaegenation, had led
the oracle of the opera.st~il to believe; and
in many other ways did he shrewdly thwart
Chancy's occasional tendency to excess.

The youtmg man's career was in all general
respects sufficiently electrical to warrant,
perhaps, the sententious commentary of the
wise men that he was "going there by the
early train"; but it was many shades less
meteoric than it might have been but for
the influence of the easy-going yet philo-
sophical Englishman. Somers was not pro-
cisely a saving agent, but he was still alive
to the propriety of observing limitation in
all things.
The winter months sped in their giddy
pace, with no respite or pause for Chancy,
atom as he was in the dizzy whirl of Paris
life. If graver thoughts and memories
sometimes struggled for a hearing in his
heart, he was amply supplied with means
for their repression, and too thoroughly un-
der the spell as yet to hesitate in availing
himself of these means. His devotion to
Nina was all she could demand. The air
brought her more than one whisper of a
rival, but her unerring instinct proved the
whisper false, and kept her secure in her
content, and in the assurance of his pro-
tecting constancy. I use the word protecting,
because she had seen nothing so quickly,
felt nothing so keenly, in her changed state,
as the presence in the smooth world about
her of more than one watchful soul ready at
the instant of her lover's disgrace to rush to
the siecre where the citadel frowned down
on thea no longer. It needed no dramatic
episode to attest the entire fealty and the
chivalrous nature of her chosen knight;
nothing was needed, indeed, to add to the
passionate gratification of the hour or feed
the brief delirium in which she lived. She
thought little of the future; or, if she did, it
was as a far end to the glowing present, and
that end was death.
Among the habitues of the Hotel Choisy,
and promi~ient in her circle, moved an ltal-
ian nobleman, tolerated by reason of his po-
sition, feared in a measure, perhaps, by rea-
son of his high diplomatic connections, but
universally detested for himself. He was,
in fact, an embodiment of the least amiable
characteristics of his nation, combining a
Machiavelian cynisme with that haughty
air of superiority which is almost a nation-
al characteristic of Italians. Profoundly
indifferent as Chancy was to the mass of
fashionable he encountered in Nina's sa-
ions, he had conceived an instinctive dislike
for this man from the first, avoiding him
when it was possible, and when brought into
contact with him displaying a marked con-
tempt for his dignity. His antao~onism was
not diminished by a pettish declaration of
Nina's that she "could not endure the crea-
ture - mon Dieu! comme ii est noir!" And
from that time his contempt speedily har-
dened into animosity. Herein, however, he
was at a vast disadvantage. In the delicate

91

war of words of a French salon, the victories paused to exchange some words with two
were ever with the cunning Neapolitan, who or three groups, as he moved down the par-
hid his passion beneath the smooth exterior lors, but in ten minutes he was gone.
of the diplomat, while he revenged himself Nina was terrified, but brave.
without mercy on the a~o'ressor. Charley "I feared it, mon and; something you
grew desperate over the grievance. "I said at the club has reached him, and he
wish the wretch would give me a chance!" was furious."
he said to Somers, savagely, ~over their "And insulted you therefore! It was a
absinthe at the Malesherbes, - for Char- brave thing to do !
Icy had learned long since to ignore the "A bold thing, be'be', with you standing
"poisonous" qualities of that beverage; by," she said in a low tone to calm him,
"deuce take him! He 's as smooth as oil, smiling the while, though her heart was
and as round-cornered as your pipe-bowl, cold with fear.
with~l1 his gall.1amatalosshowtoin~ Remadenoreply,~shewasnotsureh~
suit him!" heard her, - but looked at her a moment,
Somers earnestly deprecated this warlike and then turned to go. She caught his arm;
tendency, and had watched it nervously, it was horrible to have that chattering,
"Pshaw 1 I wonder you can notice such moving throng abut them then.
small game," he said, rather sharply; "let "You will come hack? to-night? soon?"
him have his corner and snarl, he hurts "Yes."
nobody, and every one detests him. Cynna He was gone the next instant, and she
is not a success in Paris.             was left to mask the terror at her heart he-
"But he is positively disagreeable to fore all those eyes. It was a bitter task;
Nina." and though the altercation had escaped no-
Somers looked vexed and serious. "Well, tice, it was universally felt that a cloud had
you have made the maa hold; I could tisilen on the entertainment, which broke
have told you as much; but he will not up an hour earlier than usual. Chancy's
dare pass the mark if you will let him alone, disappearance, too, was noticed, and people
I don't suppose you will; but Charley -" wondered and suspected and suggested for
The speaker paused at the name. three whole days, after which they said in
"Well?" asked the latter, impatiently. unison, "I thought as much."
"In any case, keep your head; don't, for At the Malesherbes there was a council
God's sake, give him choice of weapons!" of war. Chancy drank brandy and was
Perhaps, in his wisdom, Somers bad furious; Somers smoked and was cool.
hoped to startle Chancy into discretion. "By Jove! I don't mind telling you I
His lack of success may be inferred from expected it, and I was overjoyed to hear
the fact that the very contingency he hinted only this morning that the man was going
at arrived the same evening, to another post at Vienna in a week, - a
It was a crowded soiree at the Baronne's, week too late, of course. Why don't you
and Charley, entering late, felt an angry sit down?"
flush rise to his face as he caught sight of "I can't. I won't rest till I meet him."
the Baronne herself undergoing an evident "Bah! you must wait his message. I
infliction of acerbity at Martini's hands. won't have it otherwise; that 's flat. Let
He crossed over quickly, aad was first per- me manage it. Why, he 'd have you cross-
ceived by the I a ian, whose venom for once ing blades, and I suppose you are about as
overflowed, either by accident or intention, familiar with them as with boomerangs!"
"Ah, voil&amp;! the happy man! c'est Paris qui  "Just about; I should not care, - the
arrive!"                               doe?"
Chancy turned scarlet, and Nina flashed  ~ Pas demotion I You can shoot?"
into momentary passion. "Mais! c'est une  "Yes."
bfitise!"                                "Of course; let us hope~you are a Natty
The Italian paled slightly, but met Char- Bumpo. No disposition to an arrange-
icy's blazing eyes with his invariable, cyni- ment?"
cal smile and a low bow. "Madame is se- "What?"
vere: virtue is ever severe; her words "Questions of apologies, etc."
admit of no reply."                      "You are mootiug impossibilities, Ned."
Chanley found his voice at last, though "Well, well, it requires no more discus.
his teeth ground as he spoke, and it was in sion. Leave the rest to me, and don't
his native tongue. "You dog! if I find make a mountain of it, you know; you
you here in ten minutes, I will hurl you will stop here to-night?"
from the window!"                        "No."
The words were perfectly understood, "Place aux - But you must n't worry
and Martini bowed again with the same set your nerves. Come around early." Som-
smile, consulted his watch with perfect non- ens' looked grave after Chancy left him;
chalawe, and sauntered easily away. He graver than he had before. "I don't like

CHOISY.                                               THE "WHOLE PACE."

CHOIST-


92                      CHOISY.                                                     THE "WHOLE PACE."                 93

it any the better for having foreseen it;
and if the Italian should wait for our mes-
sage! That would be checkmate out and
out."
But the Italian did not wait; he sum-
moned Monsieur Wales promptly to the
field, and Somers felt something' like relief
when his messenger arrived. fietween the
latter, a gallant veteran of Montebello,
with a head well seasoned to Somers's cog-
nac and a delightful enthusiasm for his of-
fice, and the genial "Hercules," matters
were quickly arranged; while Charley, es-
caping from Nina, was struggling to master,
an intelligent thought in his own room.
Somers, looking in, saw him writing at his
table, and withdrew at once. He allowed
him only a brief space, however, and en-
tered again in half an hour's time in a busi-
nesslike way. The notes were finished and
sealed, and Chancy sat in his chair gazing
absently at the window, with traces of re-
cent tears in his eyes.
"Done, I see. Boa! I am to take
these, I suppose?" said Somers, brusquely,
gathering up the notes. He noticed cu-
riously but quickly the same name upon
one of them that h~id graced the letter
which he found in the secretary in the sum-
mer and forwarded to Huntley. Hunt-
Icy would never get this one, he thought.
"Come! breakfast and a turn on the road
afterwards is the order of the day.
Chancy got up mechanically, but shook
off his dmil ness by an effort as they emerged
into the street.
"it 's all arranged, I suppose?" he
asked.
"All; Vincennes at sunrise in the ap-
proved style; pistols at thirty paces, and,
as I trust, rognons sautds and Cbs Vougeot
at the fielder afterwards."
Somers spoke lightly, but watched the
effect; apparently he was satisfied, as he
rattled off at once on other things, as they
proceeded to Voisins. He gave Charley
little rest during the day; they called a
moment at Vasour's, and drove a long two
hours in the cold afterwards, coming home
to the Malesherbes in the early winter twi..
light.
"You will dine with me, of course,"
Somers said.
"I must go to the Hotel," Charley re-
plied.
Somers looked worried.
"Excuse mc, Charley, but I don't like
that. I must go with you."
"If you like," was the answer in rather
indifferent tones; indeed, since the morn-
ing, the young man had remained rather
impassive, and Somers did not quite like it.
"By the way, here are my pistols."
Charley looked at them with a momen-
tary spasm of interest.

"They are beauties," he said.
"A nice pair; I had them of an old In-
dian friend who had faced the cat of the
jungle with them after his rifle went wide;
you can trust them."
Before they left for the Baronne's, Char-
ley said suddenly to Somers, "About those
notes, Ned; if there is no occasion to send
them, just burn them, please; don't give
them back to ~
"As you like."
Somers's heart was relieved of a misgiv-
ing when, on their arrival at the Hotel
Choisy, Nina met them with a matchless
assumption of gayety, and in the brightest
of dresses. He read and felt what an ef-
fort it cost the poor woman, and fairly rev-
erenced her for it. But he permitted no
relaxation of the r6le, and with his persis-
tent and indomitable bonhomie made the
hour one of lively, almost careless causerie,
and at its end arose abruptly.
"Allons! we must hunt a dinner, Mon-
sieur Wales. I lead no empty warrior to
the field, moi. Fais tes adieux!"
Nina sprang up and came across to him.
"Let me go with you; I will be good!"
He would have been a man of much
sterner stuff than friend Somers, who could
resist the look and tone of the supplant
siren. Still he begaa dubiously, "Mais,
ma chere Baronne, vo~is savez
"Oui, je sais bien, you will have no fault
to find with me; I will go!"
And she ran away to arrange her toilet,
while Somers shrugged his massive shoul-
ders and sighed an immense sigh.
"0 these women! They do what they
like with us. En passant, I see, Chancy,
that Suwaroff has made a famous haul chez
Monsieur Blanc, where the mountains look
down upon Monaco and Monaco looks on
the sea, - half a million, they say, in a week's
playing. You remember her at Baden, she
is the born queen of diamond~; to remodel
the adage, I should say she was born under
a lucky card. Singular people, these trente-
et-quarante professionals; I have always
thought some of them had acquired the trick
of beating the table. I knew a half-pay
captain who has made it furnish him a first-
class living at Baden for fifteen years, to my
certain knowledge. I think I pointed him
out, to you. I asked him once over the
third bottle how the thing was done. 'l~oyez,
mon ami,' says he, 'I play all the days five
hundred francs. If 1 lose, I stop; if I win, I
stop also.' I did n't see it very clearly, but
I followed the rule for three days. I lost a
thousand in the two first; on the third I
won ten thousand, lost them again and five
more in desperation. I suppose I did n't
know where to 'stop.' Ah! voilii ma-
dame!"
Nina entered in charming street dress,

and laughing gayly at Somers's las
words.
"Fancy Hercules'in desperation'! Wha
a colossal emotion! Was it an aft aire dm
ewur, par e.remple, in which you did 'no
know where to stop'? Fi donc!"
"Ah, madame, where I have loved, crue
fate has ever stopped me short of m~
hope!"
"Pauvre 'petit'!" cried the Baronn
with a little laugh. The next instant bein~
for a moment in the shadow of the vestibule
she caught Charley's hand with a convul
sive clasp and carried it to her lips.
"You are not sorry to have me go witla
you, be'be'?" 'she asked.
The reply was not in words, but she shud-
dered to find it restrained, almost cold.
Their dinner, in the luxurious privacy of
a cabinet at Laurent's, was a rare feast,
which approached a frolic, as the watchful
Somers had determined it should. Beneath
his irreliressible gayety, re-enforced by rich
~vines and tempting dishes, there remained
no tenable ground for sober thoughts, and
the single serious episode which marked
the occasion was a momentary affectation
of melancholy on his own part when h~ re-
verted to his forlorn state as the" unmated
third"; and this was so far from serious that
Nina laughed till the tears ran down her
cheeks at his grotesque face.
"How desolate he looks! therchons une
Omphale pour notre A icide!"
" Une?" cried Charley, joining in the
feverish merriment. " Voyons! nothing
short of a demi-douzaine of the nymphs of
Trouville would suffice his expansive heart,
~pax moms!"
"Or all the Muses for variety! I believe
well the brave man has found them all in
Paris !
"C'h~re madame! a single face, a single
memory, is enshrined in the sanctuary of my
heart -"
"Mon Dieu! what a waste of space! It
is an untenanted cathedral; St. Peter's
with a solitary vestal at the fount!"
"' Ich habe gelebt und geliebt,' and I re-
main the embodiment of constancy, as I am
the model of virtue. I am going to turn
monk; the maroon of th~ Franciscans be-
comes me wonderfully. Dites done, amia-
ble gar~on, are we to feast with empty
bottles?"
"Behold the model of virtue who calls
without ceasing for more wine! When you
shall be a monk, all Trouville will go to a
nunnery sans doute. Fancy the mermaid
sisters! and in convents mirrors are de'-
fendu I"
"And baccarat unknown," cried Charley,
mischievously; "wilt thou still be a monk,
0 man of the burdened heart?"
"Ay, will I so, if for nothing but to

t shrive and chasten sinful youth. Irrever-
ent souls! Delaunay shall paint me in the
t act, and I will go down to posterity in my
s holy robes, while you -"
t "Heavens! what a wilderness of bro*n
woollens it would be! you were better as
1 the noble Roman, mon ami."
"Smiling like the great Cmsar on Marie
Velours! Tiens! do thefr monkships make
love to actresses?"
"Alas! you undo me quite; is she not
glorious, though?"
"Magn~ftque! It was thrilling to see you,
- an encounter of Collossi! Did she, in-
deed, sing to you 'Dites-lui'?"
"Ah! did she? I hear her yet!"
~Vivat! the mysterious one is found!
In the amplitude of the goddess we are con-
soled for the vastness of the temple !"
"IIelasV' said Somers, smiling wickedly
in his wine, "what would you have? It is
not good to be alone, and it is sometimes
very desolate at the Malesherbes now.
Mais en/In! time trots to-night. ,1~aro as!"
They came back to leave the B.u onne,
and Somers guarded his charge so closely
that the parting was hut a brief, stolen
clasp, a clinging of the hand, and a whisper
from Nina's lips, "A Dien! mon ame, situ
incurs je te suiverais!"
Charley resented Somers's attempt to take
him to their quarters, however, with half-
angry impatience, and they spent two rest-
less hours on the Boulevard, until fatigue
drove him home despite himself. He dread-
ed the silence of his room and the unavoid-
able company of his thoughts, and over
their parlor firethicy sat late, amid he drank
more deeply of Somers's incomparable pumich
than that worthy willingly permitted.
There was no moving him, and Somers,
stealing a few hours' sleep upon a eanape',
after a vain injunction to him to do the
same, closed his eyes with a last waking
recollection of the young man still sitting by
the fire and gazing moodily at the coals.
It had come to him at last, as it comes to all,
the shock of arrest; the pause in the wild,
mad whirl, when thought and memory step
like twin giants in the path and bar the
headlong course. Wine and light and the
feverish cheer of the evening, even the
still powerful spell of passion, were power-
less to stay the flood of thoughts that seethed
in his brain, as the hours of this night, his
last, perhaps, on earth, rolled away. And
down among the glowing coals he saw
forms and faces rise and smile, and weep
and fade away, - forms and faces of those
days which seemed so far away, so hope-
lessly gone, but which rolled backward now
in a tide to the man, who, with all his seven-
and-twenty years of life, was still the gentle-
hearted, motherless boy to whom the better
memories of the past were the only treas-


ON THE MOUNTAIN-SIDE.           95

94                                cIJOISY.
ures he had not squandered. Solemn, sor-
rowful images, viewed with regretful, hope-
less eyes.
"Had life meant only this for him? Was
it, indeed, all gone, so soon? and it hail
been so empty and so weary! It mattered
little. Who would remember him? The
outcast, the self-destroyed! .... And she!"
Then, as when a boy, long, long years be-
fore, he wept silent, streaming tears blind-
ing him to the images in the fire, until the
weary brain grew numb ~nd cold to every
sharper feeling, leaving him bowed and
hopeless, but sleepless still.
Somers, aroused by instinct while it was
still barely light, stared despondently at
the unchanged figure before the dead fire.
A suspicion even flashed through his mind
at the first glimpse of the bent form, with
the head looked in the hands; but he dis-
missed it on the instant, and got up briskly
to his feet.
"Nearly seven! We 'ye no time to lose.
It remains to be seen if Fritz has obeyed
orders about the coffee. I ought to scold
you for sitting there like another Tony all
nicrht. Slept any?"
~' No, I think not."
Somers started at the tone, and looked
at him again rather s~iarply. The coffee
came in at the moment, and he burnt the
cups over with Cognac. Charley took
his listlessly, and failed to respond, by any
change of manner, to Somers's efforts to
arouse him, until the latter was fairly bro-
ken down by discouragement, not unmixed
with a certain dread.
"I say, old fellow," he cried, putting his
hand on Charley's shoulder, "you 're not
going to the ground in this sort of mood,
are you? You know me and my way,
Char Icy; if you don't ~'?
He hesitated now, as the young man's
eyes met his with a look in them he had
never seen before, one that he was power-
less to decipher. Then Chanley got up
steadily enough, though he sighed as he
did so.
"Let us go now," he said.
The long ride was a silent one. Somers
was nonplussed, but no longer troubled
with the discomforting thought that had
arisen over their coffee. Whatever his
companion's manner might cover, it was
something in which hesitation or weakness
had ~ro part; he saw that very quickly, and
said no more. As their eoupd turned from~
the Boulevards into the Place du Trone,
another, which had evidently stood in wait-
ing in the angle of Rue de Faubourg Saint
Antoine, followed in rapid pursuit, but at a
certain distance, and drew up discreetly in
an unnoticed byway of the Bois, as the
gentlemen in advance left their convey-
ance. Its occupants were the l3aronne,

worn and pale with sleepless suffering, and
the faithful Henriette.
They found the other party on the ground,
and also Vasour, who had arrived by a third
cab. Martini, cold and smiling, bowed pro-
foundly to the new-corners, and shrugging
his shoulders impatiently, with a curse at
the rawness of the air, suc9c~ested despatch.
Chancy lost none of his 'l~'stlessness in the
brief interim of pacing the ground, and re-
ceived his weapon in silence from Somers.
"Cool is the word, old fellow," s~dd the
latter, a little nervous at the last.
The fall of Somers's handkerchief and
the reports were simultaneous; and though
Chancy's was only too evidently a careless
delivery, the Italian staggered wildly, and
the pistol fell from his hand; the ball had
sunk deep in his shoulder. Charley was
unhurt.
All the fury of his nature surged into the
Neapolitan's face under the sharp agony
of his wound, and he called frantically for
another weapon. The protestations of both
seconds, as well as of Vasoun, who declared
the injury to be serious and to require in-
stant attention, were vain. He was de-
moniacal in his violence, and, snatching a
second pistol from the officer's grasp with
his remaining hand, yelled to Charley to
taj~e his place. Somers covered him with
a loaded weapon in a flash, and hurled a
tremendous oath at him, with an injunction
that fell on deaf ears.
"Give me your pistol," said Charley,
quietly.
"But - it's hellish! I won't have you
murdered!" cried Somers, in whom the
sleepy lion was fully aroused.
"He will faint before he can fire," said
Vasour, in a loud whisper.
"En garde!" screamed the Italian again,
livid with rage and pain.
Chancy stepped to the mark and levelled
his weapon, while Somers reluctantly drew
his handkerchief. He had barely got it
out when Martini fired in advance of the
signal. Somers gave a great cry as Char-
ley started slightly; but the young man
recovered himself in an instant, and low-
ered his arm without firing, as his opponent
reeled to the ground in a swoon.
"My God! are you hit?" cried Som-
ers, coming up, and shaking like a leaf.
"A scratch, I think, - here," replied
Charley, putting his hand to his head,
Nothing more, by the grace of Heaven;
the merest graze of the temple, and a little
groove among the thick, short curls; a
shade deeper, and the letters in Somers's
pocket must have gone to their destinations.
There was a big lump in that worthy's
throat and a mist in his blue eyes, as he
wiped the few drops of blood from Charley's
forehead.

CI;IoISY.

I

94

95

"Thank God!" he said, hoarsely. Then ing. "To have known you, belle Baronne,
he flamed up. "The -! Twill make Eu- to have lived within the radiance-"
rope too hot to hold him for that trick!" "Ak! liZ 1~! grace aux discours! Et,
When they joined the others, Vasour par example, what have you been saying to
was attending the insensible man, while the my Henriette?"
Colonel stood by with folded arms and "That there were but two women in the
scowling face.                        world, ddesse, and that she was one of them.
"Do not remain, gentlemen," said Va- Give me pardon! In the fullness of my
sour. "I will get him off the ground, if heart I had wished to embrace her, but she
you will send my servant, who is with my embraces only Pierre. Happy Pierre! to
coupe' yonder. I suppose it is my duty. be so embraced and possess the secrets of
No, I beg you to go, Monsieur Wales; we such a salmi as this. If he were Narcissus,
shall only have more violence if you he would perish in his own saucepan! Mais
stop."                                we must make some plans; it behooves cet
The officer approached them as they infant to vary the scene with joyous travel
turned to go.                         at this juncture."
"Monsieur Wales, your friend knows who  "Laissez-mci I" said Nina, quickly, "must
I am. On my honor as a Frenchman and he go at once?"
a soldier, I supposed this animal a gentle- "It would be best; in fact, safest."
man, or I would not have acted for him. "Ek bien / I have thought of that, too."
Nom de Dieu! if he were whole, I should She had, in truth, speculated latterly on
shoot him myself to-morrow!"          escaping the feverish circle as soon as the
"Colonel Saucy, we only regret the un- Lenten recess should arrive, and formed a
pleasantness of the affair for your sake. I little private scheme for a Southern tour.
can speak for Monsieur Wales in that." The event of the morning hastened it but
"I shall forget all hut your goodness, slightly. Chancy stole some rest during
monsieur," added Charley. the day, and went in the evening to Fon-
The grizzled veteran grumbled his ac- tainebleau, whither Somers accompanied
knowledgments, and turned back with a him, and made the evening a pleasant one
sour face, while the two betook themselves with punch and old-time reminiscences of
to their coupe'. They found another stand- the Aigle Noir, beneath whose hospitable
ing beside it, from the ope~ied window of roof they tarried. A message from Vasour
which looked forth the tearful but speech- said briefly that the Italian would have a
less Nina. Chancy started at the sight, hard month of it, but was quite safe to come
and for a moment stood motionless, with an around. All, indeed, looked well in the de'-
almost weary look in his face. Then he nouement, but Somers was uncomfortably
entered with her, while Somers took the conscious of an alteration in Charley. He
smiling but equally tearful Henriette under met the same indefinable look occasionally,
his protection; and in that long ride city- that evening, which had puzzled him in the
ward, with the Banonne crying and laughing morning, and strove courageously but vainly
by turns over the blood-stained handker- to dispel the undeniable shadow which had
chief; with his aching head pillowed on fallen about Charley's demeanor. He went
her heart, and the trembling' lips pressed back to Paris, next day, with misgivings,
upon that bullet-seam, as to kiss away and was led by them to urge dispatch at ~
the crimsofl and the pain with a million the Baronne's. Three days after she joined
kisses, he found brief oblivion again for all Chancy, and they left for Italy together;
the accusing shadows of the night agone. while Paris was ringing with the news of
A matchless breakfast awaited them at the rencontre.
the Hotel, far better in its kind and in its
accessories than the rognons of the smoky
Helder; and Nina, coming in after a swift        CHAPTER XVI.
visit to her toilet-chamber, tm rosy now and  ON TflE MOUNTAIN-SIDE.
as childishly happy as on the first morning
Charley had seen her, cried out, with great A LOVELY day in a lovely land; the blue,
glee, "Voila! que j'~taispre'voyante/ Did soft sky of Italy; the blue, trembling cx-
I not know there would be two famishinft pause of the Mediterranean; and a rabble of
knights returned from the wars, and did '~i mountains running downwards from regions
not send word to Pierre that his salvation of snow, until, clothed with gray olive-trees
depended on this very breakfast?" and groves of emerald citron, they plunge
"Ah, madame, in all things you are the into the sea. In the background seared
Geniuc of the Perfect!" cried Somers in rocks and white-capped peaks and winter.
return, entering without ceremony into the In middle distance verdant valleys, breath-
merits of the menu, and becoming exalted ing of the orange-flower and fragrant heath
in his great content with that particular, as gay with blossoms, and chirping birds, and
well as with the general results of the morn- warm with summer heat; while full before


ON THE MOIYNTAIN-SIDE.

it the azure ocean shimmers in the sunlight,
like a vast wave of velvet edged with gold.
A world of nature framed in one dazzling
scene, where all climes and seasons blend
together; where the cold rocks look down
on blooming vales, and the stately palm-
tree on the shore waves a languid salute to
the rugged pine above; where the worn'
man, broken in the struggle in some sunless
land, sits down in the shadow of the fig-tree
and draws fresh life from the salted air,
while far away he may catch a cold glimpse
of winter, and his thoughts fly homeward to
the ungracious but ever-dear corner of the
world from whence he comes; where old,
odd forms of life linger in curious preser-
vation, and unwritten history teems with
strange traditions and the dim legends of
three thousand years; where the sea-going
Greek, the stern Prietorian, the half-naked
Goth, and the dark-eyed Saracen succes-
sively have trod, and left in turn their im-
press on the dweller and the land.
Centuries of patient toil have ribbed the
steep hills with terrace walls, until every
mountain is like some giant's flight of steps,
bordered and girt with wonderful old ranges
of olive-trees whose ages may not be told.
And fiu~ up, where only the eagle flies and
broken masses of stone scorch in the sun, -
in hidden crevices of the hills, where the
few trees are shrunken things, and the vine
grows short and thick and knotted in the
cloud damps, - are little fairy villages
reached only by hours of patient climbing.
One sees there the antique type of the
Latin in the strong-limbed men and hardy,
gray-eyed women, whose forgotten ances-
tors fled the shores, and from their secret
nooks aloft looked down with watchful gaze
upon the turbaned rover in his fleet ship.
How they have lived on those wild peaks
through all the cheerless winters of eight
hundred years, how increased and thrive
and preserved the stern integrity of the Li-
gurian blood, constitutes a weird chapter of
the past which no pen has added to written
history. But like the eagles, who are their
mates, no charm can tempt them from their
airy heigbts and the bright picture on which
they look down.
The air in this land is full of beauty and
mystery and silence, the land itself a worn
and many-lettered page whose ancient char-
acters we puzzle over but cannot read. We
stand in the old beaten path of changing
races who crept aroundd the sea-girt Alps,
age after age, in the ever restless spirit of
conquest, and marked it in their several
fashions. With the roadside dweller on the
shore, Gaul and Ligurian, Greek, Roman,
and Moor, and the blond barbarian of the
North, were in turn the victorious guests;
and in the crabbed dialect of to-day, which
defies all but a native tongue, we may still

find traces of them all. Tradition fades
with the Saracen; but hewn stone and
crumbling monuments tell of the Augustan
legions, and a dim but fixed antiquity points
to the bold navigator of the Pira~us long
before them.
Here the wounded of the nations gather,
and in the infinite charm which hangs
about the historic hills find a rare auxiliary
to the health-giving climate, which relieves
the weary probation of the invalid in the
long winter months. For Emma Howlana
the study possessed a pleasure that was
simply intense; and for her also there was
a balm in the air which promised well to
restore the rose to her cheeks. Once estab-
lished ia their pretty villa by the sea, ("for
all the worl~1 like a cottage of terra-cotta,"
wrote Miss Clare to an envious friend,
"with suck a sweet name - they are all
named, you know, - fancy, 'Villa Sperhn-
za'! ") and the quiet routine of Mentone
life fairly begun, the days and weeks sped
swiftly in a sunny dream; and even to
those of the party in full health, for whom
the new life was in such marked contrast to
their gay winters at home, the change was
fraught with a delh~ious, restful enjoyment
that left no room for regret. Clare was ex-
ultant, and entered into the business of ~x-
cursions with a keen zest. There was no
pause in her enthusiastic career until the
summits of the Aiguille and Grandmondo
had been duly scaled, the eerie hamlet of
Sar~ta Agnesa visited, and the general
topography of the five inland valleys learned
by heart. She had ridden every donkey in
the place, and knew their several names
and natures, and shouted "Esa! "in broad
patois to those that behaved ill, and "13u-
ono!" to those that behaved well, quite as
vociferously as old Mariana, the "donkey-
woman," and much more musically. She
had long since ceased to regard a scramble
of the docile beasts around some dizzy turn,
where a misstep was death, as anything
more than a mild exhilaration, and had
once ventured a gallop down a steep incline
to the abject terror of the beholders, na-
tive and ~foreign.
Having run through the list of possible ex-
cursions, she lapsed rather indolently under
the growing warmth of the last winter month
into the quieter employment that engrossed
Emma's attention, and became her lazy
companion in the ever-delightful foot ram-
bles and expeditions of a botanical and
artistic nature, the fruits of which accu-
mulated in fern-albums and sketch-books.
The winter had quite broken, and the
days were growing rapidly longer and
brighter, if possible, when Huntley, with-
out warning, made his smiling appearance
at the villa. He was received with a burst
of joyous welcome, such' as only those

who have met on foreign soil can fully "Mamma Jennings" found it so often
understand. Emma alone seemed to be enough, but she believed in herself, and was
under constraint. She was glad to see firm of purpose, and so at last Emma was
him, but only glad in a certain sense of forced to decide that it would be sheer folly
association, and in a greater degree she to dream any longer. 11cr days of wild,
was sorry. She -was a changed woman rebellious thoughts were over; she only
since he had bade her God-speed on the viewed the broken, hope a last time quietly
steamer deck, six months before. After and te~irfully, with an unspoken prayer for
her severe illness a~ sea, she first began to the happiness of him with whom it had
understand the real truth as to her own linked her.
health; and in that resigned and peaceful After this it may be imagined that she
feeling which in women of her tempera- dreaded to meet Richard Huntley. S~ie
meat accompanies the anticipation of~ an put him aside with the things of the past,
early death, mere e'irthly interests lost their and his reappearance disturbed the tran-
value, and her mind turned to the con- quillity of her new life.
temphation of another life. It was a hitter His instincts warned him of a change,
disappointment not to see Charley at Paris, though its precise nature he could not
but that too hid been accepted in the fathom; but lie was cheered by the gleam
self-ignoring spirit of the invalid, of sympathy shown him by Mrs. Jennings,
At the right time also, Mrs. Jennings, and, with a half-desperate resolve, threw
who had set herself to the task with a himself unreservedly upon her mercy.
holy zeal, began to put in operation her "I do not ask you to influence her, or to
own plans for the benefit of the young girl. abet my cause," he said, with great earnest-
She did not fail while at Paris to inform ness, after a carefully worded but very
herself fully oP Charley's actual position, feeling confession of his hopes; "all I dare
and to reflect seriously thereupon. She ask, all I can ask, is that you will judge my
looked through charitable eye~, moreover, case as kindly as you can, and, if it seems
as a woman of the world, and as one who right to you, leave me free to win her in
knew the young man well and had loved my own way, with the patient endeavor that
him well. She was sorry, too, and owned becomes a love like mine."
it to herself. "But here is the poor girl "You know the point beyond which I
growing old with this shadow in her cannot go, Mr. Huntley," she said, kindly.
heart; (lying, for aught we may know, "I know Emma likes you; whether she
under its weight. I hope he does not know could ever love or marry you I may not
this and act as he does; no, I do not think it. even venture to guess; influence her, of
If I could only have seen him! And after course, I could not. She has loved her
all, I could have done nothing, probably, for cousin very deeply and tenderly, and that
him. For her I must do, as I promised her affection will ever remain with her a senti-
poor niotimer. Ah me! if these men were ment that must be stu(lied and respected.
only a little more like women! I wonder Knowing her character as you do, I need
what siw is like!"                     scarcely tell you that. For my own part.
Resolved at last, the good woman worked all I may say I do siy frankly, 1 should be
diligently. It was no difficult task for her very happy in your success."
to draw from  Emma the whole truth, to   "There are no words to thank ~'on for
elicit it by delicate, unsuspected stratagems, that; there, might well be a ~vorthiier suitor,
and bit by bit: that th~re had never existed but there could be none with a profounder
any expressed understanding between her reverence, a truer love, I may say, for Miss
and her cousin; that there had never been Ilowland, tban I feel. If I win her, I shall
any (leelaration beyond the tacit acknowl- esteem it the crowning glory of my life,
edgment of a lifelong tie which was deeper au'l as God helps me shall strive to grow
than declarations. Mrs. Jennings justly more deserving of her every day I live."
estimated the strength of ;such love~ but  And so guardedly did lie approach her
huilt, like a true formalist, on the omitted again, with such matchless finc~e did he
rite. How, gradually, with all the craft of strive to recover his old ground and gain
tenderness, she drew stone after stone away new, that the first reluctant feeling in Em-
from the poor foundation of Emma's dream, ma's heart wore quickly away, giving place
until the trembling structure was a ruin, to the wonte(l influence of his presence.
need not be told. He was in no way She was growing stronger too, and exhila-
bound; he had, beyond her sisterly affec- ratpd by that rare, sweet consciousness of
tion, no attraction at home; he might form returning health which gladdens all sur-
andb other scenes new and strong ties, rounding and makes the life that was so
lose all desire to retmirn; he might even weary yesterday strangely bright and full
marry and settle abroad, since he was inde- of promise.
pendent of his father, and their relations  Emma Howland, smiling in conscious
were so unfortunate. It was cruel work; gladness, smiled also on Richard Huntley;
'3

96

CHOISY.

97


ON THE MOUNTAIN-SIDE.

he caught at that happy token and no
lop'rer feared failure.
he was a famous accession to their circle,
this wonderful man of the world. He in-
fused new life into their slightly tedious
routine, and brought his rare cleverness
and versatility to bear effectively on all
its details, from the more serious questions
of a sanitary nature down to the simple
process of drying a fern-leaf. He demol-
ished the proud structure of Miss Clare's
conceit at one fell blow, by discovering no
less than three new specimens of ferns
among the hills, long after she had sighed
like Alexander over the exhausted field;
and he was the especial admiration of that
young lady, when, in knickerbockers and
Tyrol blouse, he scrambled up the roughest
precipices and ravaged impracticable crevi-
ces f6r the early primroses and anemones.
Then he introduced a new and delightful
feature into their amusements by hunting
up the least cumbersome of the fishing-
craft, overhauling it neatly, and rigging it
'with a pretty lateen sail; in this they made
the merriest little voyages to the Bordighera
Point and Monaco, and even Villefranche
harbor, t~nd got as brown as the "lemon-
girls" on the sunny sea. And in the eyen-
ings, after the "sunset chill" was gone, it
was simply blissful to sit in the little bal-
cony over the beach, with the fisher-folk,
men and women, pulling forever at the far-
away nets, and chanting forever that self-
same song:-
"Mariannina comme chuagne
ca s' ~ rotta la lancella!
come fa la puverella
Quanno 1' eequa a da tir~!
Quanno 1' acquft a da tira!
Quanno 1' acqua a ~Ia mira!
Mariani sciasciona mia!
Lassa a chub e piglia a me!"
with the moonlight turning all the sea to
silver, and Mr. Huntley, gathering inspira-
tion from the scene, feeding his hungry lis-
teners with a thousand curious reminiscences
of that sea itself, and the far lands beyond.
In advance, indeed, of their eagerly an-
ticipated Italian tour, he wellnigh familiar-
ized them with the marvels of that storied
land, as well as of those which they &amp;ould
not hope to visit. There was n6ne he had
not visited, studied, it would seem; and he
knew well how to invest his recollections of
them with that charm of description which
has led many an innocent -traveller to
grievous disappointment, and to which the
vieux router listens with a smile and is not
deceived.
The appreciative Clare quite lost her
heart to the charmer, and rhapsodized fer-
vidly over his surpassing fascinations.
"Is n't he splendid?" she said to Emma
a score of times, adding once, with a little
teasing laugh, "I am half in lbve with him

myself. I should be quite if- if he were
not 'spoke for' I"
Whereupon Emmablushed painfully, but
laughed also, or tried to do so, as she bent
low over her sketch-book.
"You darling goose I Do you know,"
continued the impulsive girl, on whose un-
flagging elasticity the soft, semi-tropical cli-
mate had proved almost powerless, "you
are becoming awfully handsome? You are,
indeed; you never looked so well in your
life, and it 's my only consolation that the
sun has made you almost as black as I
am!"
Huntley would have used, a better word
than "handsome," when, one afternoon sonic
days later, they stood together on the high
shoulder of the Corniche Road, beyond the
Pont Saint Louis, waiting for the others,
who were climbing up from the Red Rocks
below with much unnecessary clamor.
Emma had mounted upon a block of stone
and was looking sown at the stragglers,
laughing merrily at their laborious advance,
and especiallyat Clare and her sister, who
were "racing" fiir the top, and whose pro-
gress was marked by a desperate disregard
of life and limb, as ludicrous as it was excit-
ing. Emma had taken off her hat as she
stood there, and the smart sea-breeze, waft-
ing aside her splendid hair (which Clare
that morning had decided was "too beauti-
ful" to be "done up," and which fell in
golden luxuriance to her waist), showed the
cheek, once more full and rounded, man-
tling with rich color, an(l dimpled with
merriment; and Huntley's soul was in his
eyes as he gazed covertly upon the lovely
face.
A travelling vetlura was toiling up the as-
cent, its four stout horses puffing in the hot
sun, and the driver in front emulating the
noisy dog upon the mountain of luggage be-
hind by maintaining a steady volley of mu-
sical "Ye-oups!" and an ear-piercing snap-
ping of his whip. Of its two occupants one,
a lady, was indolently conning a book; the
other, a gentleman, as indolently blinking
at the dimpled sea far down below. He
had just caught sight of the gay party of
climbers, and seemed about to call the at-
tention of his companion to them, when the
two figures on the hill-top met his eye, and
he paused in the movement, while the smile
died suddenly from his face. Even at that
distance a thrill of recognition shocked him,
and he shrank back in his corner with coin-
pressed lips; but he never withdrew his
gaze from the two who stood by the road-
side, and whom the travellers wem slowly
approaching. Once, indeed, he looked
about quickly, as if thinking of escape, and
his eye lingered a moment upon the unused
sunshade on the seat before him; but he
only clenched his hands after it, and settled

98

99

CHlOISY.

himself' with an air of desperation in his
place, while a stri4en, suffering look over-
spread his features.
It was all in an instant; the carriage
passed just behind the strollers, but south-
ward-bound travellers were too common on
that one great road to Rome to excite much
curiosity, and Iluntley, who had glanced at
it when it was still distant, had become
suddenly interested in a just visible sail,
and was scanning it through his glass.
Emma alone turned as the carriage passed,
an(l met the great brown eyes she knew so
well; th~re were no others like them in the
world. She started with a stifled cry, and
her hand went to her heart; but the next
minute the vehicle had gained the ridge and
went thundering down the Ventimiglia side
at a gallop. She could have screamed then,
and in the first bewildering impulse sped
after it as after the last departing hope of
her life; but that swift, strained glance
which had recognized her cousin, pale, star-
tled, strangely altered, she thought., and
staring at her with hollow eyes, had taken
in as well the handsome, unconscious wo-
man, reclining indolently by his side. She
was paralyzed for the instant; breath, sense,
everything but sight, seemed gone; but I
when the reaction came, the memory of that
woman s face gave her strength to repress
the cry that had sprung to her lips. While
Huntley remained intent on the sail, she
struggled to calm the tumult of her heart;
luckily he did not observe or address her
for some time, and a little later he went 1
down the hillside a few steps to give his
hand to the panting Clare. Then Emma I
ran breathlessly into the road, and, after a
moment's search, gathered a little book from
the dust, and hid it in her dress. She had I
seen it fall, and marked the place, and was
fortunate enough to gain it unseen.
On the way home she was absent and
constrained, and Huntley noticed it uneasi-
ly, the more uneasily because she was also
pale.
"I fear you have walked too far, AMiss 1
Emma; will you let me go for a panier?"
"0 no; it is nothing, just the least head-
ache. Please excuse me if I am stupid." a
He understood, and kept silence to the
villa, but he was discumforted. Once there t
and in her room, she examined the book I
with eager, trembling hands and hungry i
eyes. It was a pretty liUou copy of focelyn, t
and on the fly-leaf was an inscription f
wreathed in a delicate border of ivy-leaves, a
the whole in pencil and by what artist-hand s
she knew only too well: -               b
NINA CHOISY, Vallat, Switzerland, Au- ~
gust, 186-.
The date was seven months old! She
studied it long and silently, while the tears v
gathered slowly in her eyes; then. she ~i

kissed it where his hand had set its mark, -
what was the name to her, since the char-
acters were his? and hid i~ away. Theim
she sat in her window-corner and wept
quietly.
Clare came in, and, after a quick glance of
surprise, tumbled on her knees beside the
silent girL
"What is it, darling?" she asked, peering
up into Emma's face with the black eyes
which were always so sensitive to the influ-
ence of tears, and never more so than now.
"Nothing, dear; or only a little thing
which I will tell you by and by. Don't tell
the mamma, will you? It is the last, the
very last time!"
Clare's eyes overflowed at the melancholy
cadence of the last words.
"Tell me, dear, was it Mn Huntley -"
"No, no! I will tell you, but not now.
Don't ask me, please. There, I am going
to be good again; promise that you won't
speak of it, Clare, there 's a good girl, and
go and dress for dinner."
Two days later Emma found herself
alone with Mr. Huntley,- under the pines
of the Cap Martin; the others were career-
ing wildly far ahead in pursuit of an un-
happy butterfly, with much uproar and a
mad flourish of gauze nets.
"Mr. Huntley," she said, suddenly, "I
irish to ask you a question."
ile had marked her closely for these two
lays, and noted a new and alarming preoc-
~upation in her manner. It alarmed him
because he could not understand it or dis-
~ern it~ cause, and nothing so tried him as
:he intangible. His heart sank at these
~v'ords, for no visible reason, - how he
miled afterwards when he recalled it! -
)ut he said quickly, "It is always a pleas-.
ire, Miss Emma."
"But this is a strange question, perhaps;
lo you know who 'Nina Choisy' is?"
"Nina Choisy I - do I? - yes - that
s -" He was absolutely at fault.
"I see you do. Don't fear to tell me, Mr.
luntley. I know all."
- you know all?"
"Yes, only tell me, Mr.~Huntley, is he -
~re they married?"
She asked the question with an effort,
hough in all innocence. Evidently, thought
luntley, who was struggling~ hard for bear-
ugs, she did not "know alP." His hesita1-
ion was marked, but she did not notice it,
bough she hung on the answer. He said,
t last, with a flash in his eyes she did not
ce, "No, bat I believe they are going to
e. Pardon me, Miss Emma; I thought,
re all thought, that it would be painful,
perhaps - Mrs. Jennings -"
"You are all too good to me. I-I am
ery glad of it, Mr. Huntley. I hope he
nIl be very happy; do you not also? There


ON THE MOUNTAIN-SIDE.               101

100                        CHOISY.

I meant to be brave about it I am not
very, am I ?" She was trying to smile
gayly, but two telltale tears had broken
bounds on her cheeks.
"Miss Emma," said her companion, so-
berly, and his voice seemed to tremble a
little, "you are the noblest woman I have
ever known; I cannot tell you how I honor
you.~~
"Thank you, but I don't deserve that
praise. Shall we turn back now? I see
they have gone around. 1 will explain how
I discovered this."
She did so, while he listened, gravely,
and winced a little when he learned she had
seen her cousin. He was very guarded in
any further mention of Charley, and hurried
at once to communicate with Mrs. Jen-
nings.
"She asked me if they were married. It
was terribly awkward, and I was absolutely
at a loss. I said, after some hesitation,
which must have seemed strange, that they
were going to be." Mrs. Jennings did not
like the deception, simply because it was a
deception. As for Chancy, she had quite
thrown him over, and thought Emma: now
could bear the whole truth. But Huntley
clung to the fraud. "It is scarcely a decep-
tion," he said quickly, a little impatiently
she thought;" I have the best authority for
assuring you that it is a conclusion which
may occur any day, and which is practically
inevitable, soon or late."
"Yon seem to be informed," said the
lady, with some curiosity.
"His intimate friend at r~fis is an old
acquaintance of' my own, to whom I gave
him letters, Through Somers I hear of him,
and through him also I have made more
than one effort to reach Chariey, as you
may believe. He has resented them one
and all."
"It 's a pity his 'intimate' and your 'ac-
quaintance' could not have exercised a little
restraint over him," said Mrs. Jennings,
with a slight elevation of the brows. "I
have had to hide my 'Galignani' for a
week past. You saw it, of course."
"I read of a duel, - cela va dans l'addi-
lion, - and it accounts for his flight through
here. No one regrets his course more deep-
ly than I do, and no one, perhaps, so well
knows thd utter futility of attempting to ar-
rest it. It must reach its goal, as it will,
in marriage. Her husband lives only
from day to day, cannot possibly live lono,
and the future is clear to my mind, it
would not be well, surely, to embitter Miss
Emma's affectionate memories of her cousin
at such a time, when to-morrow may amend
his fault in the world's eyes, and put him
precisely in the position where she now im-
agines him. I cannot but think it would
be unwise, if not cruel, to do it."

Mrs. Jennings did not argue further
was quite sure now as to the issue of
ley's suit, and accepted it as inevitab
any case. The deception - for, despi
words, a deception she felt it to be
repugnant to her; but in view of the
which now seemed assured, she stifled t1~e~
small whisper of conscience, and held her
peace.
Baronne Nina, startled by the sudden in-
crease of speed, as the vetturino lashed his
horses into a run down the hill, had given a
little nervous spring which sent the book in
her hand unnoticed over the si(le, and
caught Charley's arm.' "Mon Dieu! how
the animal drives!" The next moment
her eyes fell on the face of her companion,
and noted the change there in alarm.
"Qu'as-tu, che'rie?" she asked, quickly,
catching his hand as she spoke. What lie
"had" at that instant was a dull "wonder"
if a leap over the dizzy precipice along
which they were now whirling was not
preferable to such a life as his had become.
Fur the first time h'e drew his hand quickly
away froni her with a half-recoil. that sent a
chill to her heart. "Mais, qu'as-tu? you
are ill, dear; we will go back to Mentone."
"No ! no ! " he said, excitedly; but calm-
ing himself quickly, he forced a laugh. "I
had a bad (lream, pet; was it a dream? I
wonder -"
"What? what are you talking of?"
" What? I don't know, I 'in sure. I was
asleep, I think. Where do we stay to-
night, did you say?"
"Me! I did not say, I don't even know.
Oneilly or something like; you are a little
stupi(i, bbe'; you arrangetl it all your-
self."
"So I did, I remember now. How lovely
it is!"
And because it was so lovely, he leaned
back wearily and closed his eyes. She
watched him with a troubled face, and
marked his contracted brow and twitching
lips in genuine concern. Once she caught
a muttered name. tie opened his eyes
presently, and found her watching him.
" Who is ' Iluntley '2" she asked, curtly.
He stared at her an instant, and then smiled
an u4leasant smile. "My cousin, pet, or
going to be!"
Strange that his words should be the
same as those of the cunning tongue of
Huntley himself two days later, "going to
be"!
Nina did not recover from her alarm that
day or the next, or for many. A spirit of
recklessness, of desperation even, seemed to
have taken possession of Chancy, which
she was powerless to control. He began
by exhausting the little stock of Moat at the
primitive albergo of Oneglia, and held bigh

the night through with the amazed, most died myself; since when, I bide with
lighted coicrie of' gentlemen of the Cataline. Paris it is! 'Gad! how I have
ho tarried there, while the Baronne missed you there!"
t a sleepless and agitated night in soli- The large circle of good people who were
mourning the unlooked-for reldcke at the
A. swift transit by Genoa and Civita Vee- Hotel Choisy, where in the Lent-time indul-
~Ii1a brought theni to Rome, where the gence had ever been the order of the hour,
~ world was gathering for the Passion Play, were thrown into a flutter of delight by the
and here a climax was reached. Somers r9appearance of the Baronne from her
got 't telegram fi'om Nina, and came over brief retirement, and too grateful lbr the
Cenis in hot haste, filled with fears and boon to gossip about its cause. Lifh re-
ma(l with sluggish Italian trains. He ar- sumed its course there as gay and brilliant
rivcd to find Nina in an agony of distress, as before, and if possible with added aban-
and the whole papal police engaged in a don, which some shrewd observers charged
futile search for Chancy, who had been miss- to L'Arnericain, while they drew their van-
in for three days. He was at last found ous conclusions. And, in truth, Charley
drinking confusion to princes and potentates knew no longer any limit; and Somers,
in the company of several suspected Gari- watchful and anxious, began to despair of
baldians, at an obscure ristoratore without the young man who failed to harden un(ler
the walls, and Somers had a very nervous his discipline of fire, and disproved all his
night with him in struggling against the fine theories respecting hard riding and set-
effects of a too prolonged indulgence in the tling to the ground. It was a clear case of
abominations of Vermouth and Falerno Ros- bruisee," from the cry to the death. He
so. The Bohemian was rather nonplussed by wondered much about the Italian ~fiasco, but
the stats of affairs, but advised a return to ventured no questions. One night Charley
Paris. "We can keep him in hand there, said abruptly, "You hear sometimes from
at any rate," he said to Nina, in whose Huntley, I suppose?"
gricf and bewilderment there was beginning "Yes; I should speak of it if you had not
to be just a trifle of impatience. "Did he snubbed me once, as he always sends mes-
get any letters or see anybody on the sages."
road?"                                   "Very good of him; he 's in Europe, I
"I know of none, of nothing'
plicable."                   It is inex- see."
Somers opened his eyes, and said, "The
Cimarley evinced no surprise at seeing deuce !" to himself; to Charley he said,
Somers when he regained sanity. "It 's "Y9s; came out on some bond negotia-
you, is it, Ned? I thought so. You see I tion, and was at Frankfort, I believe, the
don't ;inprove. It 's hard on her, though last I heard or no! By Jo-" lIe checked
she ought to drop me, ought n't she? I 'm the exclamation, and added, "He is down at
going to do better, though; you '11 stay with Mentone with some friends."
us, won't you ~"                         Curiously enough, he had not thought of
Somers noted the pleading eyes with a that before; a light fell on him at once
thrill hd had seen ~nen before who feared when he did so.
to he left with themselves. "Of course, if "I know that, too," said Charley, who was
yom~ like, old fellow; but I detest this coun- walking th9 room and smoking nervously.
try. I wish I could persuade you to go "lie moves in a mysterious way, does our
back to Paris."                        friend Dick; I should n't wonder if he was
"Back to PariR! Why, I shall be de- going to be married."
lighted if Nina -"                       "WHAT?"
"She wishes it above all things. Every- "Going to be married, I fancy," repeated
thing is right there. Martini got away to Charley carelessly, kicking a stool out of
Austria, despite his wound, and all the his way as he spoke. "Why not? He is
world stands ready to pat your back for rid- un honme comme ilfaut, he is; has no 'dis-
ding them of him. As foi~ this graveyard reputable connections,' so far as is known,
country, I can't abide it. I came down here and will be rich some day."
ever so many years ago and had it out with Somers did not speak. He was strangely
the classical shades, had the fever too, and agitated; and to mask his disturbance he
fought the whole line, single-handed, in my got his pipe, filled it with fresh tobacco on
delirium, royal and imperial, from Romulus half a bowlful of old ashes, and consumed
tQ Vespasian. My man-nurse personated a whole box of allumeues in the vain effort
the enemy, ~tnd I ended by pitching him to light it.
out the window, and sending all the move- "Fascinating man, too, if he tries to be,"
able effects after him. I was more an an- continued Charley, in a cynical tone, and
tique Goth than a simple Cockney, and I more to himself than to Somers. "The crirls
thought I was pulling down the Capitol. at home raved about him. I never quite
He was nearly killed, poor devil, and I al- believed him an angel in disguise, and I


FREEDOM- SHACKLES.                 103

102                        CHOISY.

did n't think - Bah I what a fool I am!
I say, Ned, who is this Dorion?"
"Deuced fine fellow," said Somers, evi-
dently relieved by the diversion; "old fam-
ily friend of the Baronne, but has been in
Algiers with his regiment sinee you came
out. He was a sort of protdgd of the old
Colonel, I believe, and has always been an
intimate at the Baronne's. You will like
him when you know him better."
"I dare say," said Charley, yawning. "I
guess I '11 go to cover; bona sera!"
"Dream sweetly!" echoed Somers, with
a wave of his hand; but the serenity faded
from his face as the door closed, and for
once the social soul was plainly glad to be
alone. He readjusted the pipe and made a
feeble effort to smoke, but it was a vain
one; and when he withdrew, after a lengthy
and troubled meditation, to his sleeping-
room, the expression on his features was al-I
most despairing. His thoughts, whatever
they might be, were much too bitter to find
the usual vent in soliloquy, though he did
break out mournfully as he turned in to his
bed, "What can I do? I wish he would
go home!"
CHAPTER XV1I.
FREEDOM -SHACKLES.
new-coiner at the Hotel Choisy,
who had so far attracted the attention of
our hero as to provoke the inquiry recorded
in the last chapter, was, as Somers had said,
an old family intimate of the D'Alencourts.
The elder D orion had been a brother in
arms with the Colonel, and, dying in Africa,
had sent his orphaned boy to France some
years after the Colonel's return, with a last
message begging the good offices of the
friend in his child's behalf. Though the
boy had a home among his father's kindred
at Lyons, he spent much of his early life at
the chateau of the D'Alencourts, and there
had been a firm and rather tender alliance
between the little Nina and the dark-eyed
Gustave. Through the Colonel's patronage
the boy was sent to St. Maur at Paris when
he was still in the season of sand-pies and
pain de sucre, and Nina a demure and di-
minutive little body of six years' growth.
They met but seldom afterwards, though
often enough to preserve the simple entente
cordial of their childhood. He was away
on service during the brief interval between
Nina's withdrawal from the seminaire at
Paris and her marriage, and did not appear
to renew the ancient acquaintance until she
was the established lady du monde of the
Boulevard Monceaux.
It might be said that no marked emotion
was awakened in the bosom of the gallant
spahi by the news of her marriage, which

reached him in due course through the mess-
gdssip, by Afric's sunny mountains. He
smiled slightly when he recalled the well.
remembered spectre of Chateau Choisy;
but was apparently disposed to regard the
match with a certain degree of approval,
as his thoughts foreshadowed something
very like the state of things which after-
wards existed at the gay Ho a Paris.
lie pledged the happy pair in a beaker of
foaming Seltzer warmed with the cognac
of Cette, and wjis glad to think that he
might some day meet the blooming Nina at
a certain advantage in the world. Nor was
he disappointed in this regard, as whenever
afterwards he enjoyed an opportunity of
basking in the hospitable glow of the Ba-
ronne's town-heuse, his heart had been
cheered by manifestations of great friendli-
ness on the part of the mistress, and his
pride more than gratified by a marked rec-
ognition of his personal merits. Truth to
tell, Monsieur Gustave was a commendable
specimen of his kind. In appearance he
was the beau ideal of the French soldier,
and had already won honorable mention in
desert strife; and in his circle he ruled
first favorite by virtue of rare good-natm'e
and that insouciant dash which is the dis-
tinguishing charm of the military scape-
grace. Nina liked him immensely. He
amused her, and sharing a perfect under-
standing, which rendered mistakes impossi-
ble, they had even beguiled themselves with
some thoroughly amiable and thoroughly
unmeaning flirtation. It was edifying be-
yond words when the handsome soldier af-
f~mcted a pale and sickly melancholy, and
dwelt with sweet sadness on the cruel issue
'of their lives, so lovingly twined at the be-
ginning, so ruthlessly torn apart, etc., etc.
Nina could listen with sympathetic solem-
nity, but would hint at the end that the
whisper of the 'world led her to believe he
had found much consolation in the usual
sources; whereupon there would be smiles
and "qac vualez-vou~'s?" and cigarrettes
Laferme.
He had resented the conquest of the
"barbarian of the West," however, had the
noble soldier, and swore a round oath in
the seclusion of his quarters, when the
amazing news reached him in due course of
correspondence. It was a reflection on the
national prestige~ on his own personal re-
pute as a winsome knight, and a shattering
blow to his amour propre; and though the
fires of his wrath burned suiphurously for a
time without disastrous consequences, he
finally asked a leave and crossed the llIag-
num in a belligerent state of mind. When
he appeared on the scene, soon after the re-
turn of the party from italy, it was with a
chivalrous resolution to oppose the present
state of affairs at any cost. He proved

more a Deus ex macidna than in his simple or, if he did, it was only to feel a certain
soul he had dreamt of being.           pleasure in the addition to the habitue's at
He had come at a critical moment, - at the Hotel Choisy of a person so evidently
the moment when INina, under the haunting agreeable to Nina.
influence of certain memories, and tortured  lie first met Dorion at the Baronne's fa-
by a dread she could not name even to her- miliar dejeuner, and found a tall, handsome
self, was casting about for means to solve man, of~ apparently his own age, with a
the doubts that grew and oppressed hcr bronzed face, long straggling mustache, and
with every hour that passed. Of all pos- peculiarly bright and winning eyes. It was
sible weapons, the desperate woman, in her a very prepossessing personnel, and he ac-
day of suspense, invariably selects the knowledge the very profound salute of the
worst and the most dangerous. ~Uo Nina, young soldier with a certain instinctive uk-
with her Southern blood and the passion ing. He assisted afterwards at the break-
that could so easily be excited to delirium, fast, participating slightly in the conversa-
this weapon seemed the simple instrument tion, which ultimately was narrowed, however,
of her need. She had thought of it, a lit- to a merry exchange of reminiscences be-
tie fearfully, perhaps, at first, but more and tween the Baronne and Dorion, in whidi
more as the fact became clear and terrible, he took no part. He noticed, perhaps,
that her life-prize was slipping from her Nina's rather excited manner, and the cx-
grasp slowly, but steadily and surely, even excellent understanding which evidently cx-
as she watched it with her hungry eyes.  isted between the two, but without even a
How win it back? Alas! this is com- momentary feeling of curiosity.
mon cry of half the women who have ever  The progress of Nina's diversion need
lived.                                 not be dwelt upon. Chancy's unconscious
Gustave Dorion came at that moment, indifference was only a confirmation strong
and with a feverlrh eagerness she cast her from which she shrank shuddering, while
lines and set her last hope on the chance. her part became so pronounced and reck-
As for Chancy, it scarcely needs to be less that all Paris gossiped over it and
told to what level his feelings had sunk. marvelled at his blindness or indifference.
The love - if by that name we may dig- At last, when his own discovery of the situa-
nif~ the brief; shameful passion that had tion could scarcely have been longer de-
occupied his senses and aged his heart - was layed, the inevitable whisper of t~ie winds
dead within him. Its very last spark had gone brought him enlightenment.
out in that terrible instant of recognition on  It would not be easy to describe the mm-
the mountain road, - drowned in a flood of gled feelings which were stirred in him by
unshed tears that flowed inward upon his the news. In the first moment there was
heart, buried in a mountain mass of ai~ unquestionable sense of relief; but, be
shame and regret. All that remained was th~ circumstances what they may, there is
the man's remorseful consciousness of duty; ever a feeling of humiliation in such a case
of his duty to her who had given her all for for the man, which, if it is not so deep or so
him, anti to whom he should ever owe the trying as the woman's, is still sufficiently
full allegiance of his actions until she strong to dominate all othet sentiments, and
should set him free. So far, even in those to lead oftentimes to bitter, even danger-
wild, reckless days, he was true and strong. ous results. Charley was very angry, very
He set a stern watch upon himself, and Ia- savage indeed, and infinitely disgusted.
bored hard to conceal from her the change He had no charity for the simple and delib-
of his feelings. Alas, how vainly No er~ite sensualism which characterized, ani-
mask may blind a woman's eyes to such i~ mated indeed, that heated Paris life, and
sight; she, to whom he belonged, still might detested the myriad shades of grossibrete' in
have understood perhaps, the noble chivalry which its votaries revelled. He had lived
which governed him now, and even valued within it, to be surer but never imbibed it,
it as rare among men; but that the old love and until now lie had believed the Ba-
was dead, or dying, all the same, she knew, ronne as hostile to it as himself. He had
or must infallible have known, only too sinned, not as men sin daily in thought
soon.                                  and deed, but as a man who falls unwarned
In the reckless haste with which she be- into error, as into a pit, carrying with him
gan her desperate task, in the sad mockery and retaining the hardly spotted garment
of coquetry which she assumed at the very of his nature. He put the worst construc-
moment of the Lieutenant's presentation, he tion on Nina's conduct with rather hasty
would have seen - ah, how quickly ! - if he judgment, and the worst color as well to
had still loved, something more than a his own position; and his state of mind
pleasant friendliness, which in truth was all may be better imagined than described.
he did see. Intent as he ever was now With a dim purpose of ending at. a blow
upon maintaining the guard upon himself; the unendurable connection, he made his
he noted nothing of the delicate prelude; appearance at the Hotel after some days of


104

CHOISY.

absence, - days of which it would have puz-
zled him sorely to give account, - entering
the salon at a late hour on a stormy March
night. A few callers only had braved the
tempest of the streets for the goal of warmth
and luxury in those gilded parlors. Ma-
dame Grandoic was seated at whist with a
select t;rio of her own favorites, - elderly
gentlemen of a studiously military poise, due
mainly to latent whalebone, - and most
of the others had made the game the centre
of their revolutions. Chancy missed the
Baronne, but as he passed into the inner
salon he heard her short laugh from the
conservatory beyond; it ran at right angles
with the room, and at the same instant, in
the large mirror which filled an opposite
space, he caught the full reflection of an in-
teresting tableau which caused him to pause
sud(henlv in his advance.
It is to be presumed that the gallant Lieu-
tenant, in view of the fact that his short
leave expired this vei'y night, felt himself
justly entitled to some slight token of grati-
tude for time part he lately sustained with,
it must be owned, admirable art. Em-
boldened by the consciousness of desert, he
had seized the opportunity in the conserva-
tory to speak plaintively of his forced flight
on the morrow; and Nina looked soberly at
him as he spoke, thimiking not of him, but of
certain matters as yet unaccomplished and
to the furtherance of which his assistance
seemed essential. There was danger in
the glance, however; Monsieur Dorion quite
mistook its nature, which was the more nat-
ural since lie was French and a large
drinker of wine at dinner; he caught both
her hands in his with a quick, strong grasp,
amid, before she could make a niovement to
resist him, drew her close and kissed her
cheeks one after the other.
This was the. picture Chancy saw; and
seeing it he swung around on his heel with
something like a smothered oath.
An instant later the Baronne brushed
past him with a flaming face, and apparent-
I y without perceiving him; Dorion followed
in her steps, and paused rather confusedly
before our hero. Charley regarded him
with a strange mixture of feelings, in which
anger, however, bore no part.
"Boa s~oir / Monsieur Wales," said the
officer with an embarrassed bow, curiously
unlike his usual easy manner.
"Bin soir / Monsieur Dorion," returm~ed
Charley, with a smile that added to the
warrior's discomfiture; "you were going,
n'est ce pas?"
"Mais oni; I had - that is, it is my last
night in the city, and I must look in at the
club."
"Will you share my coupe'? I was just
about to take my leave, and shall be hon-
ored."

'Kllferci; but you are just arrived!" re-
turned Dorion, ~laneng timidly to~rards
Nina, to whom the conversation was quite
audible. She was leaning over the players,
and the fire of her face was giving place
slowly to a deathly pallor.
"True," said Charley, with a clear, cold
laugh; "it is like F~ydeau's two cooks,
celui qui arrive - celui qui pars. No offence,
my dear Dorion; we will say I had an en-
gagement."
Nina did not turn as they passed out, nor
did they address her; but as the door closed
on the two, and while every occupant of the
room stood open-mouthed in wonder at the
scene, she gave a low shuddering sob, and
sank senseless on the floor.
In that instant when Dorion's hot lips
were on her fhce, she had caught sight of
the tall figure in the mirror, and even at
that distance felt the glitter of the b-own
eyes. No mortal* voice could have 4ivm
adequate expression to the cry which sprang
to, but stopped unspoken, at her lips, "Je
suis perdue!"
'fhe~e was wild confusion in the room.
Madame Grandoic followed the example of
her charge with commendable promptness,
and the demoralization of the three vicux
militaires was pitiful. The others, under
Henriette's guidance, bore the unconscious
Barroune to her chamber, where she was
left to the care of the faithful maid, while
the guests hurried away with eager feet to
spread the marvellous tale. It was not too
late for these industrious worthies, and in
twenty Parisian salons it was known that
night that the Baronne Choisy had had a
"violent altercation" with" the American,"
and been left insensible on the floor of her
parlor by that barbarian. It was fu ther
learned, indeed, that same night, that he had
knocked her down; and for days that fol-
lowed no epithet was too severe for the
man concerning whom Paris had quite ex-
hausted its indolent curiosity, and from
whom it was swift to withdraw its fickle
favor.
" Vale, 'Vales '- veillez veilleurs!" cried
an alliterative wit at the club; and twoscore
gentlemen, who might have been classed
as the "watchers," drew a quick breath at
the news, pricked up their fourscore ears like
hounds on the scent, and cried, "Eu/In!"
Charley and his companion, arriving at
their destination, found the brilliant club-
rooms thronged with a numerous company
escaped from the stormy streets, and the
play at high tide. They sat down mechani-
cally at e'carte', neither being in a very col-
lected state of mind, and glad of the*
diversion; and a circle soon formed about
them, attr&amp;~ted by the c(lual skill of the
players, as well as by a piquant interest
which their known relations, aupr~s the

I

FREEDOM--

Baronne, lent to the game. No thing that
is novel is ever lost in Lut~ce; and as it
becamiie known through the salons that the
compe'titeurs of the Hotel Clioisy were pitted
in play, the encircling group rapidly as-
sumed the appearance of a galerie, at least
in point of numbers and enthusiasm. The
side-betting was excited and extravagant,
and the players seemed to catch the reck-
less spirit as, while the fortunes of the table
varie(l imiipartially, the stakes reached a fig-
ure that was far beyond the "rules."
Clinrlcy was drinking freely; in which iii-
dulgence his opponent, qualified by an
African expei-ience, vied with a good grace,
but to an indiscreet excess. The soldier's
skill, or good luck, deserted him finally,
and the luck remained with Charley, until
Dorio~ quite lost his head, and, at the con-
clusomi of a game which cost him ten thou-
sand francs, swore a big soldier oath, and
cried a double.
"If you will," laughed Charley; "we
will prove the maxim of love and cards to
be true or false to-night; eh, Dorion 2"
" Comment?"
"Nothing, double it is; your cards, 1
believe."
The outsiders had repudiated the even
stake ii la Vichy, and five to one was given
on Charley. Dorion lost again and again,
and was sufficiently sobered to decline fur-
ther play, as he well might be. his losses
would cripple him for a year to come. I
Charley drew him aside, and tore the 1
IOU's into bits before his eyes.
"Pardon me, Dorion, I cannot take your
money, lie said to the amazed and of-
feuded officer; "I am indebted to you for
enabling me to forget inyseW for two hours.
You g to Algiers in the morning?"
"Yes; hut, Monsieur Wales -"
"We shall not meet again, probably,"
continued Charley, ignoring the other's
assumption of dignity; "my best wishes,
Lieutenant; l)on soir et boa voyage!" Be-
foro the bewildered officer could collect his
ideas, the young man was gone.
"Diable (les A mericains!" he muttered, s
as he turned again to the tables; "it 's a
case for Charenton; mais il a du c~w', l'en- r
faid ! "                                a
It was past midnight when~ Charley came a
out into the street and the sturm; but the b
mood of the elements soothed his heated r
brain, and, ignoring the few shivering cab- o
bies who k-pt watch at the corner, he e
walked away towards the Malesherbes, led t
more by instinct than reason. He had for- fi
gotten his paletot, and met the beating gale f~
in thin evening dress; but of this he had no tI
consciousness. A single thought surging a
back upon him after the momentary dis- h
traction of play occupied his mind swept h
from it all others.
14

-SHACKLES.                         105
He was free!
and by no act of his; to bun emancipated,
what were stormy skies Or whistling winds?
The heavy bond of yesterday was broken,
He had never fully realized the weary
weight of that bond till now when it was
broken; and the feeling of relief was almost
intoxicating. lie reached his quarters, and
hurried to his room; a fi~verish, sudden
impulse had seized him by that time, -
the impulse to fly, to put land and sea
between him and this hated Paris, with
its glitter and deceit; and he acted upon it
with an eagerness that was almost cowardly.
He tossed a few things into a portmanteau,
anti changed his soaked (Iress for a trav-
elling-suit. He felt chilled and uncomfort-
able all the time, and drank frequently,
and found it a difficult thing to do when he
sat down to pen a brief note to ~Somers
(who was not "at home" this night), ask-
ing him to look after his things for the
present.
It was not yet daylight when lie rang up
the sleepy porter and- dispatched him for
a cab. The execution of this order was
not conspicuously prompt, but a vehicle was
brought at last, and a shining louis lent
such sudden speed to Jean's lazy limhs,
that the portmanteau was tossed up to its
perch as soon as Charley himself had en-
~ered the cab and banged the door after
him. With the imperturbable dignity of
his class, cocker sat silent aloft while these
reliminaries were accomplished, blinking
with drowsy eyes at his horses. It was
)nly when Charley was beginning to won-
icr that they did not move off that the
~cnius of the box leaned tiown to the win-
low, and said quietly, "Eh b'en! mon-
neur; oii gallons nous?"
Where, indeed! Chancy had not thought
)f that. "Was there a train out of the city
n any direction at that hour?"
"There is one at six for the North,
n'sieur; it is the express for Calais."
As the cab rolled away upon the Boule-
ard, the now thoroughly awakened porter
thought himself of a sin of omission, and
ushed wildly in pursuit, with a tiny note
a his hand which had come at midnight for
monsieur; but it was a vain chase, and the
rave gar~on came back breathless with a
neful face, the more rueful as the delivery
f those pretty~ crest-bearing missives had
var been t~ him a most momentous, impor-
mt matter. And a soutid rating he got
'om Monsieur Somers, that day, for having
tiled to repair his neglect. "To think,"
Liat desolated gentleman said to himself
s he held the note before him, twelve
ours later, "that it might have stopped
Chancy dozed feverishly in the train up


106                    CHOISY.                                                FREEDOM - SHACKLES.

to Calais; he felt badly, but attributed his
illness to loss of sleep, and fought; off the
chill with his flask; and there was some-
thing so inspiriting in the thought of getting
back to grave, homelike old London, which
loomed up in his fancy now as a great,
secure refuge ahead, that it nerved him to
resist the growing weakness. It was a
bitter, drizzling day on the Channel, with
a legion of storm-devils howling down from
the North Sea; but he had turned hot by
that time, and walked the deck careless of
rain and cold. Only when he sat in the
train en route to London did he begin to
suspect he was really ill, and find his
strength deserting him. He was barely
able to drag himself to a cab at Ludo'ate
Hill and order the driver to his 1Lote'~ in
Saint Martin's le Grand.
"The seasickest Frenchman you never
saw!" cabbie informed divers of his con-
frhres over the traditional "bucket of water
and 'two' of gin," "what wanted to allay
veet to the - 'Otel for bun pubwar!"
Limited as was that worthy's acquaintance
with the French tongue, it quite covered
the significance of the last word, and he
had whirled Charley around to Aldersgate
as only a Jehu of the London streets may
do.
At the hotel Charley went to bed, and
after some hours of increasing distress sent
for a physician. It was not too soon; at
midnight he was in a raging fever, which
was only diverted from his head to take the
equally serious form of acute inflammation of
the lungs, -his old weak spot. He hung
between life and death for days; but his
attendant was a man of skill, who kept him
in the sleepless care of an accomplished
nurse, and he rallied at last, feebly indeed,
but surely. His convalescence was slow,
an(l the spring had worn away to its latest
month before he was strong enough to get
upon his feet. It was a memorable time;
and among the last to fade from his
recollection will be those long, thoughtful,
regenerating days, when he lay so weak and
helpless in the very heart of London, a
shipwrecked waif upon that vast ocean of
life. With all its myriad voices he grew
familiar; in the long night-watches be
learned the very tones of the time-bells;
the solemn echo of St. Paul's, the historic
ring of St. Saviour's, which for centuries had
sling the death.song for the condemned of
Old Bailey; the silver clamor of Bow Bells,
and the clear but distant notes of St. Mary's
le Strand~ These alone spoke in the brief
pause of darkness; but with the hint of day
the murmur of life began again, swelling
with the dull light of early morning into a
million-tongued roar, eloquent yet unintel-
lio'ible. The laden omnibuses tearing down
t~'the Bank, witl~ some merry trumpeter on

the box, waking the echoes of the "highest
ground" with a silver note; the sharper
rattle of motley vehicles; the cry of fleet
newsboys and lagging hucksters; the rag-
man's bells; the tramp of parading volun-
teers, or clatter0of little feet as charity-school
children trudged by ; - all floated in at his
window, conveying in one tremendous voice
all the immeasurable life that dwells under
the name of London. Well might one
grow sober and humble at thought of all
thbse millions of sorrow-burdened hearts,
and turn to ponder anew upon the sorrows
and the resources of his own.
In these passive days he grew strong,
morally as well as physically, and he rose
from his bed a changed man.
The day when he might be moved came
round at last.
"We must have you out of this," said
Duncan, "and down among the green fields,
or, what is better, by the sea. I have taken
the liberty to arrange it all for you, though
my part is in simply turning you over to a
professional friend at Ventuor. He has
found a place where you will have quiet,
home care, and, if medical assistance should
be needed, I can recommend him fully as
my successor. But all you require now is
air and discretion, and you will be yourself
again in a short time. You have had a
narrow escape, and I suspect there was not
much excuse for your danger. Ah! you
young men! If 1 had the ruling of it, none
of you should go to Paris till you were as
gray, at least, as I am!"
So Charley went down to the Isle of
Wight, and was lodged in a pretty cottage
in the Undereliff. The May roses were
already blooming about the door, while
over the sand the familiar Atlantic stretched
away before him in sunny glory. Here the
days sped swiftly; but each brought a gain
of health and strength.
Down at that other cottage by the Med-
iterranean, the early April days brought the
date fixed for beginning the long-canvassed
Italian tour. Richard Huntley still lingered
with the party, but said he should only
remain to see them safely over the border,
and then take his way to the North. To the
urgency of Clare and the frankly expressed
wish of her mother that he would accompany
them, he returned the same half-sad, half-
smiling reply, and waited ever for the other
voice. But Emma kept silence; the poor
heart no longer knew itself. The farewell
rambles came at lust; long, dreamy, and
regretful, among the fragrant orange-trees,
and along the terraces carpeted with scarlet
anemones; and in one of them he said to
her, "Once I asked you, Miss Emma, if I
might go with you on a long voyage; may
I ask again now?"

107

And she answered simply, as in a daze, "I am going with you to Italy!" he
"If you will, Mr. Huntley," giving him her cried, gayly.
hand as she spoke.                      "It 's not a compliment to my powers of
She too had come to regard the gift as persuasion, monsieur," said the lady with a
inevitable, and she thought of it, if without laugh, though there were tears in the eyes
marked emotion, at least quietly and with- which looked at him over Emma's bent
out dread. Now when he put her hand head; "just like all the men, you must be
tenderly to his lips, and gravely and with- bought over at a high price
out show of passion spoke his love, it made "And when you get us we prove sad
her even a little glad and thankful. He bargains, -~eh?" He was like a child in his
had been so good, so patient and devoted happiness. Mrs. Jennings looked at him
to her, that sometimes she felt borne down maliciously, as if she were studying a pen-
by a weight of obligation, and she was ance for him, but~he only beamed more
happier now in the thought of making gayly.
payment. She was not sure she loved him, "We will work you well, at any rate; and
certainly she did not as she bad loved the you may begin, Sir Richard, at once, by en-
other; but she had more than once a3ked aging our vedura, and a nice one, mind!"
herself if this serious, grateful regard which "A triumphal car, madame; we will enter
had grown to its full measure was not Rome as the conquerors did. Shall it be
better than that wearing passion of the old the captive elephants of Hannibal or -"
days.                                   "Go along; from this promising begin-
He knew her feeling, and made it his fling I presume we shall have a series of
guide, as he drew her away to the shade of magnificent absurdities to the end of the
a gray old olive, and spoke long and soberly chapter."
in words that soothed the little tumult of "Trust me, dear Mrs. Jennings, I'll be
her heart,                            awfully good," he said, laughing; but adding
"As the years go, Emma, I am almost an with infinite tenderness, as he turned to go,
old man beside you," he said, holding her "do you also take good care of my dar-
hand softly, so softly that from time to time lin
her eyes met his with a momentary courage, "You dear puss!" cried the lady, when
lingering ever longer and less timidly; "and he had gone, kissing the still blushing face,
it might be said of me, perhaps, that a varied "I am delighted, he is such a splendid
and eventful life has aged inc beyond my man!"
years; yet, without egotism, I would ques- "I am glad you are pleased," was the
tion if what the world or many in it will low reply; "he has been so good to me, I
call your sacrifice in marrying one so much hope I shall make him happy."
your senior is really such. Little woi'thy of "Of course yorfwill! Why, the man is
you as I am, I should have been far less so mad with joy, poor fellow! 1-lere is Clare,
twenty years ago. I was no worse than the child must be put out of misery, she
most young men of my class; but when I has been in a fever of suspense for a
look at you as you are, and recall myself' at month!"
twenty-five, I recoil from the comparison. Emma wished to be married at home,
As a young man, I feel I should have failed and opposed any other proposition with un-
utterly to understand or appreciate your yielding firmness; so it was determined
beautiful character - ah, yes, it is more that after Italy and some weeks at Paris,
beautiful and noble than you can know I - they should all go hpme together. Clare
while, as a young man, I should have cx- vowed that nothing should prevent her as-
acted that passionate sentiment which young sitting at the wedding, and Mrs. Jennings
men so falsely estimate. How incompar- was not altogether sorry to change her
ably superior is the affection you give me plans and~return to America.
now. You cannot know how I value it; "We can come out again when we like;
you shall only see how I -will strive to it 's a small affair when it has been once ac~
retail it, perhaps to make it grow. You complished; and, to tell the truth, I am
have made me very happy, darling, anti homesick for dear New York!"
men at my age do not hold that rare "0 yes, we can all come again next win-
boon lightly. It shall be the leading pur- ter, and have our nice times all over again;
pose of my future life to make you happy can't we, Mr. Huntley?" cried the joyous
also. May (Iod judge me as I keep to that Clare.
purpose!"                               "To be sure we can!" returned that
It was late when the ramblers returned gentleman, to whom the present and future
that night. Huntley led Emma to Mrs. were alike couleur de rose.
Jennings by ~the hand with a proud smile;  They were nearly two months in Italy,
the blushing girl was only too glad of "the and, lingering a week in Switzerland after-
mamma's" sheltering bosom when he re- wards, did not arrive at Paris until June,
leased her.                           where their stay was made brief, in order


108                               CH(
that th6y might avail themselves of the
smooth Atlantic of early summer. Hunt-
ley found unusual difficulty in securing their
passage across. The Cunard steamers were
taken up with full lists for weeks ahead,
and he was eventually compelled to take
staterooms on a steamer of another line.
They made efforts at Paris to communicate
with Charley, but could learn nothing what-
ever of his whereabouts. Huntley informed
himself fully through Somers of the young
man's mysterious disappearance, but was
discreetly silent even to Mrs. Jennings;
the utter absence of any clew puzzled him,
and gave him considerable uneasiness. The
Baronne, he learned, had left the city, imme-
diately after Charley's departure, for her
chateau, to "assist," as the Parisian world
said, at the demise of Baron Choisy, who
was gathered to his ancestors soon after.
Beyond this nothing was known; at the
banker's no word whatever had been re-
ceived from Mr. ~Vales, nor had any wan-
dering soul succeeded in this instance in
tracing him to a hiding-place. The gossips
themselves, having exhausted their wits on
the subject, finally compromised upon the
hypothesis that a reconciliation had been
effected between the young man and Nina,
and that he was only awaiting in seclusion
the passage of a saving interval, after which
the monde expected nothing less than a mar-
riage of veuve Chosy and "the Amcrican."
Huntley was pleased finally to accept this
view of the case as favorable to his ends;
though Somers declared it was "all wrong,"
and so much of the story as related to the
expected alliance he communicated to Mrs.
Jennings, who in turn conveyed it carefully
to Emma. If the latter was especially dis-
appointed, she gave no visible evidence of it
beyond saying very quietly, "I should have
liked to see my cousin very much."
Did she then misjudge herself? Per-
haps; at any rate, Richard Huntley, who
heard the words with a chill, said in his
soul, "I am desperately glad you did not!"
Matters followed their rapid course; and at
noon precisely, on the 22d of June, they
steame(l out of Liverpool harbor for home,
and Huntley's heart was glad.
CHAPTER XVIII.
EEVELATiON.
I HAVE said that the time sped pleas-'
antly for Charley at his new home in
"stately Wight"; but the words fail to
express the quiet enjoyment of those days,
in which the sweet sense of returning
health gave a glad and grateful tone to sur-
roundings 9f a thoroughly homelike char-
acter, as rare as they were delightful to our

)ISY.

REVELATION-.

hero. He was the guest of a widow lady,
whose slender income received additions by
the occasional contributions of one or more
invalid lodgers like himself, coming to her,
as he had done, at the advice of the princi-
pal physician of the place. The household
consisted of the mistress, her aged father,
and two children, boys of twelve and four-
teen. There was, besides, an invalid lady
of a certain age, who seldom left her cham-
ber, and held coldly aloof from "the Ameri-
can" until that charitable young man quite
won her over by deferential attentions and
the grateful acceptance of a budget of
Church publications. Chancy was espe-
cially interested in his hostess, whose win-
ning and motherly manner was marked by
a settled melancholy that appealed power-
fully to his sympathy. Her age was a puz-
zle; but he was quite sure that the worn
face, which had once been very lovely, and
the silvered hair, were aged rather by suf-
fering than by years. Had he required her
care, he felt how gentle and tender a nurse
she would have been; but that need was
past. It was wonderful how he rallied in
the bracing sea air, and felt the lost strength
coming back with every breath; and it was
only when he faced himself in the mirror,
and looked curiously at the thin, white fea-
tures, thrown into vivid relief by a thick,
dark beard, that he realized the "facts"
again; though even at these he only smiled
now in the fullness of his spirits.
He made himself a great favorite at the
cottage in a little time, winning all hearts
with his pleasant words, and demolishing
the prejudices of the elders against his
"Yankee" blood, with never-varying good-
humor. With the old gentleman, who was
a quaint relic of the smaller commercial
class of London, he would sit up to any
hour, over mild gin-and-water, and listen
without weariness to ,endless reminiscences
of Kent Road and the" City" of fifty years
back; while with the boys, fine, manly fel-
lows, whose dark, un-English faces always
stirred some undefinable memory in his
heart, he shook off ten heavy years, joining
them in their boating, paddling for shrimps,
and " larking" in a hundred ways, for days
together. Not but that he had mnny sober
hours, even sad ones, in which the life to
come was studied bravely and hopefully,
though not without some pain; but in this
holiday-time and day of deliverance, as it
sometimes seemed to be, there was much
that was joyous, and of this he made the
most.
"You are getting strong so fast we shall
lose you some fine day soon, I fear," said
the widow, a little sadly, when June with
its daily pilgrimage of city wanderers, in-
tent on Canisbrook and Osborne House, had
come.

"Indeed, Mrs. Delafield, I had scarcely
thought of it, it is so delightful here, an
~ ou have made it seem like home to m
es, I must go soon~"
"Shall you return to New York, Mi
Wales?" she asked, thoughtfully.
"Yes, I think so; not to remain there
perhaps, but for a time, certainly."
After a moment of silence the lady con
tinned, flushing slightly as she spoke
" Some day before you go, Mr. Wales, wil
you allow me to inflict somncthing of my his
tory upon you? If you knew it, you migh~
do me a service in America."
"1 should be glad indeed of the oppor
unity to dp that, to do anything in my
power for you, Mrs. Delafield. I shall al~
ways owe you a debt, and Welcome any
chance of paying you in part. I must think
more of going now, too. I have been re-
luctant to do it heretofore."
Yes, he would go back to New York.
There had been a nervous shrinking when
he first approached that determination; no
moment probably was more trying to the
prodigal than that in which he mastered the
stubborn heart and resolved to go back in hu-
mility to his father's house, to face the gibes
and sneers, and win back the difficult favor
of the world; but he met it bravely, and
grew strong in the resolve. If it were per-
mitted him,, he would try to win forgiveness
of his father. He would ask no further fa-
vors, as he had still something of his own;
and in some of the countless avenues,
in some one of those marvellous growing
Western cities perhaps, he could begin
the new life, surround himself with new as-
sociations, and grow to fill some useful
place. They were brave pictures, and he
found a deep gratification in drawing them,
and sometimes a strong impulse to hasten
away to their accomplishment; but this he
checked. He would do nothing more hastily
or blindly as long as he lived. He thought
often of his cousin, too, with a sad humility
that was void of bitterness. The scene on
the Corniche was very vivid in his memory,
and he imagined her now only as the wife
of Richard Huntley, and bowed to the fate.
"He will make her happy because he will
appreciate her. how thingseome about!"
he said to the sands. "I could not have
borne the thought once. Heigho! here are
the boys. Well, what is it? a row? I 'm
with you; I have gqt quite strong with the
oars again."
"So you have, Mr. Charles, -- so you
have!"
tie lingered in the island for more than
a fortnight after that brief conversation with
the. widow; but he had set a day, mean-
while, for his departure, and like all set
days it came around very soon. it was only
on the preceding afternoon that, lAying

109

y delicately reminded his hostess of her pro-
ri posed commission, and repeated the assur-
ance of the pleasure it would give him to
serve her in any way, lie received from her
lips the promised narrative. It was in the
privacy of the little parlor, the scene of
, many pleasant memories to Charley, who
little dreamed of the great event which was
- at hand to make it more than memorable.
"You will not find my story a vci'y
1 happy one, Mr. Wales," she began, with a
- sad smile, and evidently with some effort.
There was a pitiful, appealing expressiomi
in her face that won all his sympathy at
the start, and instinctively he took the thin
hand and held it while she spoke. "hf I
- did not know your good heart, I should not
burden you with my sorrows; but it has
been my hope tbr years to meet with an
American in whom I could confide, and
you have seemed almost like an answering
messenger to my prayer. You will think
me weak and foolish, it may be, when you
know 'dl, and the one hope in life I retain;
but there are ties in life, Mr. Wales, from
which no woman's heart can free itself.
I am not a widow; I am only a deserted
wife. I feel sure that my husband still
lives, though I have heard no word fm'oiu
him for twelve years. May God forgive
me if I do him wrong! he may have died
even in those days so long ago; but I cam~-
not stifle the voice of my heart, which
always tells me he is alive, and that I shall
see him again." She paused a moment, and
turned away to brush two stubborn tears
from her eyes, while Charley silently pon-
dered on this explanation of the stricken
face. "It sounds strange to you," she con-
tinued, "and scarcely less so to me, listening
to my own words; in all these years it has
seemed a bitter dream. I can never real-
ize it, and am always thinking I shall
wake again, and find him with inc. It has
been hard, Mr. Wales. One day I was a
young, happy wife -0, so happy! - and
the next as you see me now, alone ii~~the
world."
"But have you never had a~my tidings, no
clew---?"
"Neve~but once, and then a mere straw.
I had best tell you all the story. Fifteen
years ago we lived on Clapliam Rise,
you know it, - over on the Surrey si(lc. My
mother was living then; but I was the only
child left at home, all my brothers having
married and scattered. We had a large
house, and mother was one of those old-
fashioned, busy women who live in a con-
stant state of occupation; she had always
had a great family to look after, and it
made her miserable to be so~sohitary and
have so little to do, especially as flither was
absent a great deal of the time at Ports-
mouth], assisting my eldest brother in busi-


110                        CHOISY.

ness; so, though we did not need to do it,
we took in gentlemen lodgers. Among
them were two young men who engaged
our best suite of rooms at a liberal price,
making them partially their lodgings. They
wer~ of about the same age, and both very
handsome men; evidently wealthy and aris-
tocratic, and very great friends. They
led gay lives; sometimes large parties of
fine gentlemen would call for them, and in
the season a great many notes and invita-
tions arrived fbr them by every post. We
believed then that they were younger sons
of noble families, who took the rooms for
convenience, as many of that class do.
Well, to come to my part, the gentlemen
were always very gracious and polite to mc,
and the elder - we always thought him
the elder by a few years - grew atten-
tive at last. I was a rather attractive girl,
I suppose; and being the only daughter in
a large family of brothers, I had been made
much of. My poor father gave me every
opportunity to become accomplished, and
I had improved my advantages fairly;
mother was very proud, I renieu~ber, of my
music and drawing, and I must have been a
little conscious; a little vain, perhaps, as
the boys all called me 'The Duchess.'
Mother was watchful, and did not like Mr.
Delafield's attention to me; but I was head-'
strong and followed the usual course of
girls, giving him ample return, until we
had a final acknowledgment of mutual'
affection. Our courtship ended happily,
however; he told father who lie was, very
frankly, an(l asked my hand in marriage,
only stipulating that the ceremony should
be kept secret for a time from his family.
lie belonged to the nobility, and had been
an officer in India and a great deal abroad,
on government service; but at that time and
for some reason I never learned, he was on
bad terms with his brother, who was the
head of the family. We were married pri-
vately, only two or three of his friends
being present, and then ~vent down to a
cottage he had rented at Richmond, where
we lived very happily for more than a year,
and where William was born. My husband
was away from me a great deal in London,
but continued always very loving and de-
voted when at home, and I was perfectly
content and happy. He never told me
much of his life; he seemed always to be
waiting for a reconciliation with his brother,
and often said that we should go into the
world some day, and meet his people; but
I cared very little for that, and told him
so; he was the world to me. And I think
- I know, he loved me then. He was so
good to me, and he could be very passionate
and terrible to others, as I had opportunities
of knowing. No, that doubt has never
added to my sorrow; for even now, after

years of thinking, I know my husband loved
me.
She paused a moment, and Charley felt
the clasp of her fingers tightening, but un-
conscious, on his own.
"His friend visited us often at the cot-
tage; except my parents, he was the only
one who came, and I sometimes fancied
that he and Robert were engaged together
in some sort of business, though perhaps it
was only horse-racing. I never asked my
husband about such things. The gentleman
was a very pleasant, merry man, and we
used to have delightful evenings together
when he was there.
"Well, about eighteen months after our
marriage, this man caine one day in great
haste to the villa, and asked for Robert,
who was not at home. He then hurried
away, after telling me not to be alarmed
if I did not see my husband that night, or
even for several days. Then I got a note
from Robert in the evening, saying that
business would take him away, perhaps for
a week. It was more than a week before
I heard again, and then a letter came from
him at Paris, saying he would soon return;
but I was to leave the house at Richmond,
and meet him at my father's. I began to
he frightened by all this mystery, but did
as he bade me, though it wrung my heart
to leave the cottage; I had slept under its
roof every might mince our marriage. He
came back a few days afterwards, as he had
said, and joined me at Clapham. He looked
pale and worn, and seemed to have tried to
disguise himself by shaving' 'his face clean.
I was sure there was some trouble, and
asked hint what it was. He said it was
all along of 'poor Ned' and the 'Jews,'
but he could n't tell me any more then,
and I must n't worry, as it would all come
right. He did not go out at all for two
days; but one or two men came in the
evenings, and he had long, private inter-
views with them in the library. The second
night he came up very late to our room.
I was in bed, but lay awake awaiting him;
but he said he must write some letters
and I must go to sleep; I did so, while he
was writing at tIme table. In the night I
woke up with a start; he was standing over
me, looking at me very strangely. X~ hen
he saw I was awake, he bent down amid
kissed me, and said, ' Go to sleep again,
puss; I am not through yet'; and went back
to the table. I did fall asleep again, Mr.
Wales, I was such an unsuspecting, happy
child! In the morning he was not there;
he had gone out in the night, and I have
never seen him since."
It was a strange story, and Charlr'y sat
silent and thoughtful at its close; while Mrs.
Delafield dried her tears and choked down
a soh or two which came at the last.

REVELATION.                              111
"I SU~~OS3 there had been some - some taken thirteen years ago, but it is wonder-
trouble," she resumed, "and I know my fully preserved."
father knew something which he never told She handed him a daguerreotype, as she
me; but I believe my husband was incapa- spoke, turning at the same moment to the
ble of crime, and I know he loved me. He door, where one of the boys was begging for
need not have hesitated to tell me all; he admittance. The picture was that of a tall,
must have known how gladly I would share handsome man with drooping mustache,
any misfortune with him. I think now it slight, military side-whiskers, and large,
was some trouble of his friends into which black eyes, far apart, but retaining much
Robert had been dragged, but it makes no of their piercing expression on the faithful
difference. For weeks and months I watched plate. lt was a face not to be forgotten or
for his return with unfading hope, - yes, mistaken, and one upon which fifteen years
for years. My other boy was born, and the between thirty and fifty could work little
care of my babies, who were both sickly change. Charley recognized it at a glance.
children, kept my thoughts occupied. At It was the face of the man he had known as
last, however, I broke down completely. I Richard Huntley I "Great God!" was his
was ill a long time, and this misfortune, I startled exclamation.
think, killed my mother, who borrowed as "Did you speak?" asked the lady, re-
deeply as myself. I should have followed turning from the door.
her, but for the children; I came back to "iNo - that is -I was struck by this
life for them. We gave up the house at face," he stammered, without raking his
Clapham, and came down here to live; eyes from the portrait, which seemed to
father had gone out of business and was dance and multiply itself under his gaze
glad of the change, and it was a good thing "He was very handsome," she said, in a
both for him and the boys. We have been low tone, "with wonderful dark eyes, and
here now nearly eight years, and it has the clearest complexion 1 ever ~aw in a man.
made men of them." There was just a little mark on his temple
"Once, you said, you heard '?" that came in India; he used to be worried
"Yes; I have yet to explain why I tell about it sometimes."
you all this. It is only an uncertain hope, Charley started again; he remembered
but it is a hope, the only one I have. One the mark. Out of the chaos of his thoughts
of my brothers was in America and spent a strange one took shape.
some time in New York. He knew my "And his friend, the one who lodged
husband, and one day he saw a man in the with him, you knew his name?"
street who resembled him very much, so "0 yes, we tried to find him, but without
much that Tom will almost swear to-day success. lIe went abroad, we heard. Somers,
that it was Robert. He tried to reach him, Edward Somers, was his name; we did n't
but lost him in the crowd. Afterwards he know anything about his family."
made efforts through the papers and police Charley longed to be alone.
to gain the desired infbrmation, and found "You will let n~e take this a moment and
a great many Delafields, but not the one he make a little sketch of it?" he asked.
sought. He is very clever too, is Tom; but, "Of course. 0 Mr. Wales! there, I
of course, he could not do so well as one at won't be foolish." And the poor woman
home in the city might." turned her tear-stained face to the window
"But," suggested Charley, "you could as he left her and hurried to his room,
have seen his brother." blessing him in her heart for the hope he
"We did. My father went to him,, but had made to spring up there.
he is a hard, cold man; he listened to Once in his chamber he put down the
father's story, and then said we had the portrait, and stood transfixed before it.
advantage of him by several years in a What was to be done, or, rather, what was
knowledge of his brother's whereabouts; to be done first? Tell her all? It would
that they had been strang~mrs for a long require time, make painful complications,
period, and he disclaimed the connection perhaps delay; and the vision of Emma,
entirely. lie said other heartless things. she wbom he loved, going blindly to a
I don't r~'member them. I wondered he frightful fate, rose before him at the thought,
could be Robert's brother." and overshadowed all other considerations.
Charley could not regard it as very won- Had it already overtaken her? He almost
derful, all things considered; but he reflected crushed the pictured face before him as this
in silence. possibility entered his mind. And all these
"INow you see why I told you," Mrs. precious, fatal days he had been lingering
Delafield said, finally, with some embar- there in ignorance I Action, swift and
rassment, but with wistful eyes. "I thought instant, must be his watchword now.
you might - 0 Mr. Wales, if you should He looked at his watch; there was a
ever see him! I brought this to show you; train up to London in an hour. Luckily
will you try and remember it? It was his preparations were all made; he had


112

CHLOISY.

arranged to go in the morning, and his
trunks were packed. In spite of his trem-
bling hand he managed to make a hurried
croquis of that flice; he could have hit it
almost as well from memory. Mrs. Dela-
field marvelled at the likeness, but said
quickly, "You have left out the whis-
kers!"
"Yes, they were not necessary, and I
hurried over it. Your revelation has spurred
my conscience, Mrs. Delafield, given me
another incentive to hasten home; so I
have determined to lose no more time, but
go up to London to-night."
"AhI but to-morrow will do as well; we
shall be sorry to miss this last evening."
"And so shall 1; but I have already
delayed too long. 1 mean to catch Satur-
day's steamei at Liverpool, and I must go
over to Paris first; so you see there is a
great deal of travelling to be done in a
short time. I shall save a day by going up
to-nioht."
"~ou know best, of course; but you must
not overdo yourself. You know you are
not quite so strong yet as you were.
Bidding her good by, Charley said to
her in a low voice, "I shall find your
husband; I know it, and promise it."
She embraced him with uncontrollable
joy, but could not speak. She ~v~nidered
why he had shuddered when sbe ki' sod him.
The old gentleman and the boys went
with him to the station, which was close at
hand. On the walk thither, while the boys
were running ahead, the elder said, inter-
rogatively, "My daughter has told you the
sad story of her life, I think?"
"Yes; I was deeply pained by it," an-
swered Charley.
After a moment Mr. Raygood continued:
"I need hardly tell you that she was quite
blind to the real character of her husband,
and has always remained so. We thought
it best that she should. He was a criminal,
sir; influence and name alone saved him
from penal service."
Charley heard the womds with a dull pain.
How he had been duped in this man! But
what he had done seemed insignificant com-
pared with what he might still do. "It
was criminal to leave his wife as he did,"
h0 said, mechanically.
"I cannot think any benefit would come
to her through his return, even if that were
possible," added the old man.
fly this time they had reached the sta-
tion; the boys had come up, and Charley
made no reply. Five minutes later he was
steaming away to Ryde.
At Portsmouth he learned that he could
take a steamer from Southampton to Havre
that night; but a quick calculation showed
the London route to be the shortest in time;
so on to the city he went. He was at Water-

be at six o'clock, and had time to snatch a
meal at Ludgate Hill before the night ex-
press for Dover. He had for a moment de-
bated the question of stopping a day in
London to see if anything could be learned
there, but all his instincts moved him
towards Paris. It seemed, also, as if Hunt-
Icy would avoid London. At any rate, he
determined to push on. Steam-speed seemed
a foot-race to his impatience; but there was
no delay. He dashed by St. Denis in the
glow of sunrise, and was back at the great
Station of the North when Paris was at its
early coffee.
He left his modest luggage at the gare,
and feed a sleepy cocker munificently to
drive him quickly to the Grand Caf~, which,
of course, that immovable functionary in-
sisted upon doing at the traditional trot.
The bank doors in the Rue Scribe were not
yet opened, and he went in to get some
breakfast at the cafes where his not very
elegant exterior was irreverently comment-
ed upon by sundry gar~ons in spotless waist-
coats and the whitest of neck-ties. They
were far from recognizing l'enfant dc l'Amc'~.
rique of six months before, whose appear-
ance had been the signal fQr the fleetest
of movements and the most graceful Que
vcut-il prendre, monsieur?
"You don't know me?" asked Charley,
quietly, of the elegant gentleman who
poured his coffee.
"ZIIais non; pour le moment, snonsicur.
Pardon! have I ever had the honor -?"
" Tant micux!" said Charley, indiffer-
ently. "Know you if Monsieur Somers is
in Paris?"
"At this moment Monsieur Somers is in
Paris."
"Merci! l'addition."
The knight of the napkin brought the
note in a daze, and remained in a daze
when Charley tossed a louis on the plate,
and went out.
"Voilh un homme!" said the immaculate,
with great dignity to his mates. "On no
peut juger jamais le via par l'ctiquette.
Parbleu! cinq francs de pourboire plus
quatre-vingt centimes!"
Charley went at once to the banker's, and
walked directly into the inner office with a
beating heart. A principal, seated at his
desk, looked up in surprise.
"I beg pardon," said Chancy with a
tremulous voice, "can you tell me if Mrs.
Jennings and party are still in Europe?"
"Ab! they will tell you outside," was
the curt reply. It had at least the good
effect of quieting Charley's pulse like a
dash of water.
"Thank you. I. am Mr. Wales of New
York. Do you happen to have any letters
for me?"
"Mr. Wales! is it possible? A thou-

REVEl

sand pardons. I did not recognize you.
You are wonderfully changed. Letters?
I will inquire ~
And Mrs. Jennings's address, if you
please."
"Ab, yes! they were going home soon, I
think. Brooks, have Mrs. Jennings and
party sailed for home yet?"
"Sail in the - on the 22d, sir."
"When!" cried Charley.
"The 22d; to-morrow, sir," the clerk re-
peated.
"From Liverpool, of course. They were
here a few days since only; the young
lady invalid quite recovered, I understood.
There was a gentleman with them who in-
quired after you, - Mr. Hunt-"
"Yes, I know; and Miss flowland was
quite well?"
"I was told so. There has been a great
deal of inquiry for you, Mr. Wales. Ak!
here are some letters."
"Thank you. Can you tell me whether
I could catch this steamer?"
"To-morrow's steamer?"
"Yes."
"It 's a chance. There is a tidal train
by the Boulogne and Folkstone route at one
o'clock, I think. By that you might catch a
night express on the Northwestern, and be
in Liverpool by mornino-."
"Thank you. Will y~eu have my account
balanced? I will call for it. Good morn-
ing.
Going out Charley glanced at tl~e regis-
ter, and felt a second thrill of satisfaction
in seeing the name "Miss lowland"
therein, even though it was written in the
bold hand of [-luntley. But he must catch
the steamer; and he grew hot amid cold by
turns, thinking of the chances. Once he
was tempted to telegraph something to Mrs.
Jennings and secure a delay; but it was
only a momentary impulse: that resort
would remain, thanks to science and cables,
even if he missed the ship. He went in at
Bowles's, and posted himself fully about
the trains, though the result of his inquiries
only confirmed the banker's statement;
there was nothing earlier than the Boulogne
"tidal." This gave him some hours to re-
main in the city, but they were unwelcome
ones. There was nothing he eared for
there, and he rejoiced in the natural dis-
guise which concealed his identity so ef-
fectually from more than one well-known
eye. He read his letters, but they were all
of ancient dates, and none, as he faintly
hoped, from his father or cousin. Then he
went to the Malesherbes, and met with a
touching and iuelod~amatic reception from I
the concierge. In the old quarters nothing
was changed. Somers's room showed sio-ns
0~
of recent occupation, and his own was in
perfect order and readiness.

~ATJON.                             113
"He orders it so, monsieur; all the weeks
he makes me to change the linen on the
bed. He is desold because monsieur goes
to come never again."
Charley dismissed her and hung himself
upon a sofa in the little salon-parlor, fwnoir,
and consultation-room of those other days.
How strano'e and unreal it all seemed!
Only the windowss opened there with the
same soft air of summer wafting in, as of a
year before, with the shadows of the incipi-
ent Haussmannic trees falling across the
sills, and Madame's cherished family of
canaries chirping away below, seemed curi-
ously home-like and real. One's earliest
memories of particular places are ever the
most vivid; and here Charley's Paris life
had begun only a year before! It seemed
an age, with all the phantasmagoria of
scenes and faces dancing in the glass of
memory. For the first time since he had
entered the gates, he thought of her with a
dull sensation of pain, perhaps of pity. A
step on the stairs put the thought to flight;
it might be Somers. He eared not if it
was or was not; that individual had small
prominence in his present plans, though he
would have chosen, perhaps, not to see him.
It was Somers. He came in puffing with
the noon heat, and stopped short as his eye
fell on the recumbent figure. He had
missed the concierge and was unwarned.
WTClI ! " he cried with a short lauoh
"here 's a go! By Jove! I admire mon:
sicur's graceful abandon. May I inquire
to whom-? Good God! is it you, Char-
Icy?"
"Why not?" was the cold response.
"Why not, indeed? why not months
ago? heavens, how altered you are! you
(lon't look well. You are not refusing my
han(l, arc you, old boy?"
He had come up and extended his own,
but Chancy lay quite .notionless, looking at
him steadily but rather indolently.
"It looks like it, does n't it? I am only
wonOering now, Ned Somers, ~whether you
too are a villain, or only a victim!"
The Englishman flushed scarlet, and
Charley, still watching him steadily, saw
big drops gather on his forehead.
"I don't know what you mean, Charley,"
he said, sadly. "I never did you an inten-
tional wrong; and if I lent myself to such a
purpose, it was in simple ignorance and be-
cause I had no choice. I don't think I am
~juite a villain, as you put it; but I am a
victim fast enough, God knows I
Chancy was silent; Somers sat down, but
instantly got up again and walked nervous-
ly up and down the room.
"I don't know what you may have dis-
~overed; I can't know, because the whole
sifair in which you and Dick Iluntley have
figured in some secret connection has been


114

CHOISY.

an inexplicable mystery to me from first to
last. My only active part in it, if you care
to know, was getting you away from Paris
last September, and you will hardly accuse
me of having forced you much on that occa-
sion. I got occasional orders from Huntley;
that was one of them; and there were
pretty powerful reasons for my attending to
them, though, had I known you then as I
did later, I should have faced the risk and
refused all share in what I suspected from
the first was a scheme, against you, despite
your own representations of the strong
friendship which existed between you and
him. What was the nature of that scheme,
I know not; I never could form an idea of
it. I am not the sort of a man to parade
my affections, but I don't think you will
doubt my subsequent friendship for you."
Charley kept stubborn silence; he was
thinking of whtt he might learn from this
man, and whether it would repay the effort.
Somers was at the end of his rope, sure of
nothing and fearful of everything.
"One morning you got some news or
something that cut you up badly. We
went to the Helder afterwards,.and I asked
you whether Huntley kept up his 'friendly'
correspondence with you; you remember,
perhaps -"
"Yes, I think I do."
"Well, I had it on my lips then to tell
you of my suspicions and warn you against
him. I knew him - my God! I should
think so! He ruined my life, and I expected
nothing less than that he would ruin yours.
Well, you remembered an engagement at the
]3aronne's, and left inc at the critical mo-
ment, and I never had the courage to do it
afterwards."
"You would have saved much pain to
several persons, if you had," said Chancy,
quietly, looking at his watch as he spoke.
Somers noted the movement, and sr~id
with bitter dejection, "My position was
a hard one, you could not know how
hard."
"No, I could only suspect," said Charley,
rising; "something dating back to the nota-
ble association of Somers and Delafield per-
haps. There, never mind; it is quite out
of my way, and it is only with him I have
to deal. So far as you are concerned, I am
willing to take you at your word as being a
victim of that infernal scoundrel; it could
hardly be a nice position, and I am sorry for
you. I must go now; I am going over to
London by the afternoon express. Y-ou
can have my things packed up and sent to
store at the bank at your convenience. It
is not likely we shall ever meet again; so
good by, old fellow."
"But - Charley - a moment -"
"I really have n't more time, Ned. I
would n't miss the train for all Paris, and I

don't think we need to talk any more. I
bear you no ill-will; we are good quits,
adieu 1"
Poor Ned Somers! many a shattered
dream had marked his earthly pilgrhnage,
and many a disappointment darkened the
day that followed a rosy morning, but few
more bitter than this. Ever hopeful as he
was, he had watched patiently all these
days for Charley's return, and doubted not.
And the cherished picture of the future,
the " seigniorial dignities," the metamor-
phosed chateau dearer than those of Spain,
the "boar-steaks" and the red, red wines
of matchless Chambertin, all glowed as
brightly as ever in his prophetic soul, more
brightly even, since the "stomach" was no
more. It was a big hope that swelled the
colossal heart, and it died hard. Voisin's
menu was rubbish that day; and for the first
time ir~ the memory of man, l'aimahle Anglais
lost his temper over a paltry matter of
francs at pcquet at the club. Some dayl
later he went rather less joyously than
usual down to the loved shades of Trouville-
sur-mner. Let us hope that there was a
balm in Calvados for the bruised heart; in
these pages he appears no more.
Charley found an unsatisfactory state of
things at Boulogne. A gale was blowing
up channel, and there was a doul)t about
starting ~the boats; but some titled digni-
tary, who ha1)pcned tc be en route, exercised
the " divine right " w~th coi~shle'able spirit,
and the potency of rank, if it could not quite
still the sea, made the ship to go down
thereon, much to, Chancy's satisfaction.
The crossing was perilous, and occupied
twice the ordinary time, so that he reached
London full two hours late for the midnight
train to the Northwest. There was an-
other at an early hour, which he was told
would catch the steamer, and he waited in
sleepless excitement and at last went off,
leaving his luggage behind. Arrived at
Liverpool he sped to the steamer office; lie
was only just in time, and no accommoda-
tions were to be had but a steerage berth.
He paid the modest charge for this without
wasting a second of time in hesitation, and
went aboard in the very last boat.
The deck of the broad poop was thronged
with cabin passengers, and from his position
below he scanned the faces with a heating
heart. He did not see those he sought, but
he knew they she was there; he had seen
the names on the list at the office; and now,
as he made his way across the busy open
deck to a quiet corner, they greeted his
eyes again from the billets of a great multi-
tude of portmanteaus. He got away by
himself and leaned against the bulwark as
the vessel slowly gathered her huge strength
and swung around in the stream. His heart
was full of gladness and unutterable con-

I

IN THE HOLLOW HAND.

tent, and a thrill of ecstasy traversed his
heart as they swung clear of the shipping
and moved off with the bow to the west.
No chance could part them now; he was
there with herr once more with her, and in
that strangely binding atmosphere of ship-
life; there to see her, to breathe the air she
breathed, and sleep within the sound of her
voice, to watch and guard and save her.
Above all the roar of voices and the deep
thunder of those never-silent shafts and cyl-
inders, above the rush of the winds and the
sharp flapping of the unfurled sails, one sin-
gle voice spoke and re-echoed in his heart:
"She is here! She is with you I Lose her
not again!"
CHAPTER XIX.
IN TIlE HOLLOW HAND.
CITAnLEY lost no time in hunting up a
functionary, and happened on the head-
steward, to whom he stated his case, making it
peculimrly attractive by the graceful transfer
of a five~pound note. lIe was provided forth-
with with an odd berth in the steward's cabin
for the first night, with the promise of an
arran(reinent which should secure him cabin
accommodations on the morrow; to the
table and poop free access at once was
un(lcrstood; the steward would explain
matters to the captain directly.
Then Charley reflected: eventual recog-
nition seemed inevitable if he became an
inmate of the cabin, and recognition meant
exposure on the instant for Iluntley. 'Would
it be well? The temptation to go in there,
where she moved and slept, was welinigh
irresistible; yet did lie resist it, for he
thought of the shame aad pain to which
it midit subject Emma and Mrs. Jennings,
and 17e felt the moral impossibility of taking
a recognized place by Huntley's side among
them and holding his peace. It were less
difficult, though it was hard, to bear the
brief; self-imposed banishment, even with
the galling thought of that soulless villain
standing in relations of intimacy with his
cousin. What these were he did not know,
and only half surmised; but he was begin- I
ning to see through the dark mists of the
past eighteen months pretty clearly; and ic
all his righteous hatred for the man, he did
not ignore his powers. They were not mar-
ried: how God had been thanked for that!
And never for a moment did the belief tor-
meat him that she loved him. I
He weighed his thoughts well, and then c
arranged with the stewards to keep his
berth among them, and also to dine with L
their mess, giving up the cabin entirely, a
and to this plan he accommodated himself s
with great success. He also got a hat from t
one of them to replace his thin, silk tray- s

115

elling-cap, - a wide, black Van Dyck, which
was at once comfortable and picturesque,
- and after sleeping the night through like
a babe, he mounted the bridge-deck the fol-
lowing morning at Qucenstown and tested
the completeness of his disguise by passing
before Huntley, who was smoking a medi-
tative cigar thereon. The niomentary cx-
citement in Charley's bosom, as he encoun-
tered the careless eye of the broker,
awakened no corresponding emotion in
that gentleman; he noticed simply a rather
tall, rather thin, and altogether "seedy"
personage with a profusion of dark beard
and an absurdly large slouched hat, and
associated the figure instinctively with un-
successful artistic or literary proclivities.
Chancy was exultant and emboldened,
while ime also felt more forcibly than before
how impossible it would be for him to speak
the smiling lies of hypocrisy to this white-
faced demon. He extended his restless
promenades to the main deck and the gang-
way stairs, and persistently followed these
lines for the next three days, though quite
unrewarded for his pains. The sea was
restless like himself, and the cabin people,
after their unhappy fashion, nursed them-
selves in the pent air of their staterooms.
He had still some struggles with himself
too, in these days, did Charley; it was
agony to think of her just within there,
suffering and ill, perhaps a little frightened
by the sharp gusts that came chasing after
them from the Kerry hills away out to sea,
making the good ship plunge and shake her
inane. He bribed a steward with a princely
hi-ibe for secret reports, and was made fool-
ishly happy by the news that she kept
strict privacy, and was as invisible to Hunt-
ley as himself.
"You - you do not seeher?" he asked,
with a rather ludicrous disregard of the
propniethis.
"Me? Why, no; the stewardess tells
me, you know."
"To be sure; not a word about me, you
know, Burns."
"I takes you, sir; not a haccenfl"
Whereupon Burns improves the first op.
3ortunity to enlarge mysteriously on this
sident case of the affections to the smiling
tewardess, with whom he is desperately
~namored. "A gentleman all up his back;
hould n't wonder if it wuz a real pelt-
neller! Looks like a lay on the hotelier
me, don't it? But he 's the real swell."
lut the stewardess was wise, and the suspi-
io~i went no further.
Charhey saw Huntley constantly; but the
atter, self-contained as usual, noticed him
0 more, nor indeed any one else, but
moked endless cigars and walked the decks
thoughtfully for hours together. Our hero,
ecure in his disguise, watched the man


116                   CHOISY.                                              IN THE HOLLOW HAND.

with a strange interest, and marvelled at
his nature, at once so evil and attractive,
and it was in this study that his apprehen-
sion of the past grew to a settled conviction.
In his long reveries by the rail, with this
miracle of craff and deceit pacing before
his eyes, his mind ran hack over everylit-
tie incident of their connection, resting
painfully on that fatal night at Worthing-
ton's, struggling to gather the truth from
the chaos of its memories. And over that
shameful subsequent life he passed, with a
shuddering suspicion that in some deep,
mysterious way this man's brain had guided
it. lie was only human; and with this
feeling in his soul, there came sometimes a
mad desire to face the wretch in his ner-
vous walk and hurl the accusation in his
face. But he did better, saving his strength
for the day of reckoning, and girding him-
self with patience.
He was at his jealous post on the bridge-
deck, the fourth morning out, at an early
hour. The sea had fallen in the night, and
the bright, sunny morning had awakened
bright, sunny hopes in his heart. Standing
thus, and guarding the cabin gangway with
hungry eyes, lie felt his heart leap suddenly
to his throat with one upward plunge that
sent the blood flashing through all hi~
veins, and, fairly dizzy, he leaned on the
rail beside him, as two slight figures
emerged and climbed awkwardly to the
deck above, both marked by the pallor of
illness, both ludicrously unsteady on their
feet, but merry with laughter, and rejoicing
in their escape from the cabin. Just as
he had seen her last on the Italian hill,
with the sea-wind tossing her hair, and an
amused smile parting her lips, she stood
with an arm laced in that of Clare, and
looked out wonderingly on the waves, while
her companion chattered like a free bird,
and broke out into peals of ringing laughter
at each little clumsy stagger. Poor Char-
Icy! It was hard to stand there with
strained eyes and beating heart, watching
the dear, familiar faces, and crushing down
the longing to fly across to them which filled
his heart, and shook him like a tempest.
A smothered exclamation near him caught
his ear; and Huntley, tossing away his cigar,
passed swiftly with an expression of mingled
pleasure and vexation on his face. The
sight braced him, and he sauntered across
with well-affected carelessness and took up
his regular promenade on the main deck,
where he could glance up at the faces just
above him, as he passed. He had twice
traversed his little beat, when Emma's eyes,
coming home from the sea, looked down
and met his own just when he was nearest.
She gave a little start and an exclamation, as
he passed on; then he heard Huntley make
some remark which brought a quick laugh

from Clare, but none, as his l~eart told him,
from the other. He paused by the bulwark
to let the flush die out of his face, and then
returned on his path and met the gaze of
all three bravely. He rocked lift le of
Huntley's or Clare's, but in EmmiVs he read
something which thrilled him to the soul.
What was it? Commiseration, curiosity,
eagerness, all were there, and something else!
The look unmanned him, frightened him,
indeed, and he hurried forward to hide
himself. Every day now they came on
deck, and every day Chancy walked his
beat, and was rewarded with that soft,
puzzled glance from Emma. He had even
seen her eyes fixed on him while he leaned
over the side' in the pauses of his march,
and, without daring to ask himself its mean-
ing, he carried the memory of it warm
his heart, and dreamed on it at night.
They had smooth and delightful seas before
coming on the Banks, and the evenings
were lovely beyond description, the great
ship careering landward beneath a moonlit
sky and over a silver sea. Chancy strayed
into the forecastle (where he had long since
"paid his footing" with more thaa one
largess of "Jamaica ") on one of these
nights, while mirth and sailor-music filled
the hour with the "watch below." They
knew him there, and hailed his coming with
a volley of rough welcomes, followed by
loud calls for a song; and it would have
warmed the hearts of those who know the
hard truths of" foksul" life to have seen the
silent enjoyment with which the poor fellows
listened to Charley's ready songs, those
familiar, plaintive home-ballads which are
as dear to Jack's heart as double grog. Un-
noticed by Charley, some of the passengers
had come forward with an officer; Jiuntley
was among them; and at the conclusion of a
motley chorus, in which the seamen brought
their weird minor notes into a strikingfinale
to Charley's solo, Huntley pressed them to
select a number of voices and come out to
the main deck for the entertainment of the
cabin. The men were only too glad of the
chance, and only waited for the officer's
permission, which was freely accorded. A
group was then formed about the after
hatchway, which boasted several very good
untrained voices, with a surprising banjo-
p~ ayer and a clever violinist by way of
orchestra; and Charley having accepted the
leadership, an impromptu concert was given,
heartily enjoyed by the cabin-passengers,
who swarmed out upon the poop above.
There is a marvellous pathos in these
cherished songs of below-decks, which are
literally the sailors' hymns. Poor Foster is
the saving genius of the forecastle, and his
homely melodies wifl echo still on the seas
when they are all but forgotten ashore.
Their influence does more to soften the hard

117

lines of Jack's stormy life than all the and sought to soothe back to its brief slum-
hollow exhortations of the unsympathetic ber the love that might sometimes sleep, but
preacher. Such simple songs made up the could never die. Poor tender child! was
programme, interspersed with several of the weary trial never to end? They will
those extravagant sea-ballads which Jack smile among the sisterhood at the weak
delivers with such exquisite unction that it woman I have chosen for a heroine. She
is easy to see he more than half believes in was weak; strong in no sense but an infant's
the amphibious felicity of the lucky lad who innocence; wise only as simple-hearted
was "married to a mer-mi-ad at the bottom Miranda, fain to bear the burden for Ferdi-
of the dark blue sea!"                 nand, and formed for nothing but the strong
In order to add a crowning triumph to sheltering arm.
their performance, the men, who were like  The later days of the voyage were stormy,
children in their unwanted enjoyment, sur- and the ladies were driven below to console
rounded Charley, and insisted on his singing themselves as they could wi~JtAhe thought
the air to a favorite ballad, while they for- that they were nearing home. Only once
wished their own peculiar chorus for each after the night of the sono- did Charley see
stanza. It was a worn thing, "Her Bright his cousin, and this time s~e seemed rather
Smile Haunts me Still," and was sung to to evade his eye. He thought she looked
death years ago in country parlors; but in unhappy, too, and was glad to think the end
the esteem of the sailor, to whom "midnight would come soon. During these nights of
on the sea" is something more than an idea, storm lie was constantly on deck. The
it is the very first of English songs after grandeur of the angry sea and the brave
"Sweet Home," which last is ever sweetest struggle of the vessel on her way filled him
to those who know no home.             with keen enjoyment. He extended his
Chancy had a moment of hesitation; he rambles to the poop, now deserted, and won
had seen Emma standing with Clare in the the hearts of the officers by sharino~ their
front rank of the auditors, and the song was night-watches, and making many a long
one which they had sung together scores of hour pleasant with merry talk. They called
times in the old river-side home; it seemed him the "fifth officer of the watch," and
to him that she could not fail to recognize hailed his coming with welcomes.
his voice as he sang it. But he did sing it,  They ran on soundings in a broken sun-
and with a rare sweetness that silenced all set, and the wind died away as they bore
other sounds, save the swash of the waves down along shore with only twelve hours'
and the deep-down rumble of the unresting sail to port. On this last night Chancy
screw. It was an hour of delight, a scene had strayed away by himself, and was lean-
of peaceful beauty, with the nioon shining ing over the rail by the captain's hife.boat,
down on the dark figures of the singers, watching the flashes of the moon through
and the silent throng of the steerage folk, broken masses of cloud as they were mir-
who had crept up timidly to see and listen; rored in the waves. He was busy with
with the dimpled, splashing sea around thought. To-morrow they would be in port.
them, beautiful but terrible in its solitude, To-morrow his work would begin. It was a
and the brave, strong vessel gliding ever momentous reflection and it made him very
onward with spirit-speed under the chan -serious, as he stood there in the gloorn~ A
ging stars. On more than one heart in the little thing broke in on his study; some-
noiseless circle of the upper deck the thing was whipping against the ship just
spectacle left a deep and lasting impres- below him, and he peered curiously over to
sion.                                  discover what it might be. Nothing, of
"Is n't it lovely?" said Clare, under her course; only a long loop of the line with
breath, to Emma. She got no reply from which the cutter's bow was lashed to the
the latter, who was listening with bent head rail. The sailor had done his work care-
and beating heart. When they went below lessly, and an end of the line, becoming
afterwards, she saw tears on Emma's cheeks, disengaged, hung down almost to the water-
but did not wonder at them; she had been line and beat against the sides at every roll
very near such weakness herself. of the ship, like a tiny whip upon the in-
"It was so like poor, dear Chancy, - sensible bulk of an elephant. C harley had
was n t it?" ceased to think of it, and was wandering
If in the watches of that night, our hero again, when he suddenly became conscious
could have looked in with spirit's yes upon of a presence. Some one had come up to
his cousin, he would have found he~ in tears, him, and, turning in some surprise, he found
and, reading her bitter thoughts, would have a tall figure at his elbow. The inevitable
felt a great joy tempered with the conscious- cigar blazing before the pale face told him
ness of her sufihiring. All those sleepless who it was. He wished to avoid this en-
hours, with old Ocean beating dull echoes counter, and made a movement to go, but
to her heart-throbs, as she lay by the ~hip's checked himself mechanically, as Huntley
side, she struggled with her awakened soul, 1 addressed him.

CHOISY.

116


118                         CHOISY.

"Not so bad to-night," said the broker
in a friendly tone.
"No," returned Charley, in a low anc
indistinct voice. He would have giver
worlds to get away.
"We shall o'ct in in good time to-morron
at this rate. ~he is walking a ong finely I'
Chancy made no response.
"I wished to see von before we left thc
ship," continued Hs~mntley, drawing nearer
"and thank you for your share of the enter.
tainment the other evening, for the Indies
as well as myself, it gave all of us great
pleasure."
"I am very glad," responded Charley, in
the same low tone.
"Excuse me, I did n't hear you -
Huntley bent his head close to Charley's
face as he spoke.
"I said I was glad that they were
pleased," shouted our hero.
At the same instant the other gave a
strong pull at his cigar which flashed a mo-
mentary glare in Charley's face. After
this there was a silence.
"It 's no use, Charley," said Huntley,
after the pause, in a tone intended to be
kindly; "I have suspected you ever since
the night you sang, and now I'm sure of
you, though you are terribly altered. Why
in the world did you not let us know? 'I
fear you have been in distress on the voy-
age. Surely you must have known me!"
Charley was silent, stunned, and full of
speechless wrath.
"Come!" cried Huntley, "I am waiting
to shake hands; you don't dream of trying
the disguise any longer, do you? We '11 go
below and have a toddy and a cigar, and
talk over the hiatus. I 'm all eagerness to
hear the story of your adventures!" Still
no response, and Huntley said quietly, "I
hope you have n't put me in your bad books,
old fellow; I don't deserve that. Besides, I
am going to be your cousin, Charley, and
we must be friends -"
"You d-d infernal scoundrel I" yelled
Charley, his cool blood rising to fever heat;
"what do you mean?"
Huntley drew, back slightly, but spoke
quickly. "I might rather ask what you
mean; my meaning is simply that I am
going to marry your cousin, and -"
"Never!
Huntley puffed his cigar coolly. Was it
worth his time to waste words on this aban-
doned boy, who, very likely, was half drunk
at that moment, on the rtim of the fore-
castle?
"Why not?" he asked, shortly.
"For a hundred reasons!" cried Char-
ley, who was clenching his fists in the dark.
"Because you are a villain, and, as I suspect,
a convicted one, and because you have a
wife living!"

Huntley started violently, but recovered
himself on the instant.
"You have evidently acquired some ac-
complishments in your gay career," he said
with a cold sneer; "you were not so ready
with a lie once."
Charley gave way under this, and struck
at the man with all his strength. Huntley
reeled under the blow, but closed with him
like a tiger and forced him sharply against
the boats bow.
"Will you have done, you fool ?" he
cried, hoarsely.
Charley tore an arm loose, and, seizing
the other by the throat, held him back for
an instant. All the demon in his nature was
aroused.
"I know you, Robert Delafleld alias "
At the name, Huntley gathered himself in
a spasm of strength and fell on Chancy
with resistless force. Always powerful, he
seemed to have redoubled might in his arms;
and Chancy, weakened by long illness, was
a mere child in his grasp. in an instant
Huntleyhad wrenched the handfrom his neck
mmd lifted the young man with one tremendous
wrench from the deck. They were close at
the rail; and without a spoken word the
Englishman raised his victim and hurled
him over. Charley clutched frantically at
his opponent, and caught a momentary hold
on his sleeve; shaken from this he clutched
at the rail, but missed it, and went down
the ship's side without a cry. The moon
was entirely obscured and the steamer
shrouded in darkness as Huntley bent over
and strained eye and ear for a last sign of
his victim. There was none; nothing but
the inky darkness, the rush of the water
through which the ship was ploughing at
high speed, and the dun wake of white
foam behind, along which he ran his gaze
until it was lost in the blackness. lie drew
a long, hard breath and wiped the moisture
from his forehead, where a great lump had
risen et unnoticed.
"Not a sound!" he muttered; "the
screw must have crushed him on the instant.
He will not come back again this time!"
He went away quickly from the spot.
Even in his hardened heart the conscious-
ness of his fearful deed began already to
breed its nameless terrors, and he hurried
from that vast and awful presence where an
accusing voice seemed to arise in every
wave. As he passed the officer at the bin-
nacle, the latter said, " Good evening," and
asked if "Mr. Thompson" was not "over
there aft"?
Huntley shivered, but replied calmly, "I
think not:1 saw no one."
"Ah!" was the dry rejoinde~. The sail-
or's practiced eye rarely deceived him, dud
he had seen the two figures by the cutter in
a flash of moonlight just before. He waited

I

EXIT HUNTLEY.                               119
till Huntley's head disappeared down the to rest on the skylight while Curtis called
companion stairs, and, whistling shrilly to a quartermaster.
"keep her on," moved aft to the boat's side. "Go down and tell the steward to bring
His foot struck something, and he picked up up a glass of brandy: look sharp I"
"Mr. Thompson's" large bat lying just by The liquor brought the young man
the rail, and felt it still warm at the band. around.
Uc gave a low whistle, this time with his "I think I will go below," he said. "I
lips, and cast his eyes about sharply over will see you in the morning, Curtis. You
the deck; then he stepped to the rail won't say anything, will you?"
and peered over. Any one but an iron- "As you like; keep clear of the long shark,
nerved sailor would have shrunk back you kno'w."
appalled from the dark mass that met his Chancy stopped and thought. "How
eyes clinging to the side of the ship, sting- much did you see, Curtis?" he asked.
gling upwards. But he dropped instantly "I saw enough," was the sententious re-
on the deck, and, throwing his right arm ply; "we '11 talk about it in the morning."
around the pillar of the rail next the space Chancy went to his berth, but it was lono'
occupied by the boat, he forced his shoul- before he slept. The events of the niga
ders through the narrow gap and reached all seemed strangely unreal, except the
downward with his wiry left arm. wild moment when he had hung between
His hand encountered a coat-collar, into life and death: that was terribly real, and
which his strong fingers twisted them- the memory of it came with every third
selves, thought. And Huntley - He grew fair-
"Courage, lad! hook an arm in mine!" ly cold, and his teeth closed hard, as he
Charley obeyed convulsively, with a gasp- thought of him; at that moment he could
ing "Thank God!" He was very nearly have seen him tossed without mercy into
spent in the struggle. the same dark sea, and fiAt a grhn satisf'ac-
The officer drew him up with one strong tion in his tombless burial. He fell into an
pull to the level of the deck; and, raising uneasy sleep at last, broken with terrifying
himself to his knees, which he braced, one dreams and painful awakenings, until ex-
against the boat and the other upon the pil. haustion and deep slumber followed.
lar, put out his other hand and dragged his When he woke it was with a dim con-
burden easily, though a little roughly, sciousness that a long time had elapsed.
through the opening to the deck. Charley The ship was motionless, and the unfamiliar
rolled himself into a sitting posture~ and, "Yo-heave-ho!" of the stevedore's gangs,
leaning back on the boat, panted for breath. the tramp of many feet, and the broken rattle
The officer rose to his feet, and, wiping of the donkey-englue, fell on his glad ears.
the perspiration from his face with a square Through the open port he caught a glimpse
yard of bandanna, gave vent to a half-smoth- of a far-stretching forest of masts and a
ered oath. patch of blue summer sky, - the sky of his
Charley, not yet able to speak, grasped native land.
his leg as if entreating him not to go.  Though his watch told him it was noon,
"All right, lad, I 'm not going. Get your he lingered still a little while in his berth,
wind, get your wind! By the Apostles, it busy with his thronging thoughts.
was a close squeak. I can't see what you
caught."
"It was the line," said Charley, between
his short breaths; "there 's a stringer loose     CHAPTER XX.
there. It caught me, rather; I went over
the roll, and it was flying well out. Luckily      EXIT IIIJNTLEY.
it was a loop; I got a little rest with my AT the time treated of in these chapters the
foot in it, but I got som stiff bumps too. writer was a respectable resident of the cit
It was close; it kept bumping my breath out. of New York. 1 may be permitted the qual-
I should n't have got up without you; and I ifying word, I trust, which, while it sounds
was just going to slide down again and rather well, means nothing whatever, and can
raise an alarm. It 's Curtis, is n't it?" scarcely be regarded an expression of ego-
"Yes, but, I say, how did it come about?" tism. Rented and occupied a modest suite of
Chancy's wits came back with his" wind." offices - two, and a wash-cupboard - in an
"Wait a minute. Ah! that 's my hat. aerial locality just within the saving atmos-
Don't say anything about it, please, Curtis; phere of the City Hall, and was popularly
at least, not just yet. How long do you lay supposed to be engaged in the practice of
over at New York?" the legal profession. There was a certain
"A week, -probably. Come over to the warrant for the supposition to be found in
binnacle; I see they are letting her fall off, an unpretentious bit of tin in the mosaic of
We can talk there."                    signs and symbols on the door-post~ below,
Charley walked unsteadily, and was glad on which, "Ego, Attorney at Law," met the


EXIT HUNTLEY.                     121

120                        CHOISY.

public eye in simple text, with the supple-
mentary information that the said gentleman
was not to be found on any floor inferior to
the classic fourth. My "business hours"
were from ten to three; my hours of business
are quite another matter, of which it is not
here necessary to speak.
I was alone in my outer office on a certain
day in July, 186-, the same on which at an
earlier hour the steamer --, of the' Guion
line, had come to moorings in the savory vi-
cinage of Desbrosses Street. As the perusal
of the shipping' list in ~o way entered into
my habits at t~at time, I was probably un-
aware of' this maritime fact; certainly I was
far from suspecting that it possessed any pos-
sible interest for me, being, as I distinctly
remember, deeply engrossed at the moment
in a case of small dimensions but sufficiently
perplexing nature, wherein an irate landlady
of a "quiet locality," and an obtuse neigh-
bor of questionable character, were the par-
ties litigant. I had, as I further remember,
almost exhausted the field of expedients
and my own temper in the study of the
momentous problem, and felt a growing
consciousness that lunch-time was fully
arrived, when the door opened suddenly
and there entered unto me a gentleman.
The first glance at the stranger's ensemble
was inspiring; I was refreshed, indeed, by
his very foreign and really unique appear-
ance. The exceptional is always attractive,
and never more so, perhaps, than in a law-
yer's office, where it is dimly suggestive of
something out of the common in the way
of causes and cases, fees and charges.
I salamed the visitor, and placed a chair,
which courtesies he gracefully ignored; he
removed an avalanche of' hat, and, coming
up to me, administered a vigorous slap on
my back.
"So you don't know me, either! Egad!
1 might~as well be Rip Van Winkle! How
are you, Harry? My name
"Is wonder! I 'd never have known
you, Charley; but I 'm awfully glad to see
you, all the same. From what heathen pos-
session do you come?"
"No worse thaim England. But how are
you and everybody and the babies?"
The young man's exuberance was trying,
with the mercury at 850.
"I am well; 'everybody(' is always well,
I believe; as for the babie~, Charles I for
what do you take me? Why am I thus -"
"Sinner! I had hoped you were reformed;
bachelorhood and its sinful indulgences still
keep their hold on you. Speaking of indul-
gences, have you lunched?"
"I was just going; will you join me?"
"You anticipate me; now that I think
of it, 1 have fasted since last evening. I
have a queer story to tell you, Harry, and
work for you also, - work that must be done

quickly. Can you give me a day or two
of your time?"
"Only too glad; but since you are fasting,
let 's go across to Del's at once; the fatted
calves will be all served before the tardy
prodigal arrives.
I need not have used the word; it slipped
out in the usual way when one is trying to
be "funny" I
"Do you see my father, Harry? Is he
well?" he asked just afterwards, as we were
crossing the Park.
"You have n't seen -? 0, he is as
usual, I think; I saw him at the office a
few days since."
"A strange questions was n't it?" said
Charley, smiling. "I 'ye enough that 's
strange to tell you."
As we went in at the familiar Chambers
Street portal, he asked, "Do you remem-
ber the last night I saw you at the May-
flower, when I had just come up town with
Dick Huntley, after dining here?"
"Yes, very well; we were all very much
cut up by your sudden taking off. By the
way, where is iluntley? 1 suppose you
met him abroad."
My information respecting Charley was
that of the gossips, and I hesitated to a~k
several questions which arose in my mind.
I thought this a safe one.
"Lie is here in New York; we arrived
by the same steamer, though by no fault of
his, Dieu sait! Thereby hangs my tale."
We were a long time over our luncheon;
Quill, who is my office-boy, clerk, and
copyist, and who awaits my return accord-
ing to regulations before running down to
Gould's for his frugal bowl of clam soup,
evinced an amount of feeling I had never
before observed in him when our return to
the office relieved his watch. Chancy told
me a part of' his story over our wine, and
completed the narrative in my sanctum. I
need not repeat any of' the details, which
are already known to the reader; he stated
them to me minutely; and more clearly than
be, perhaps, I traced the guiding hand from
the gambling-house to the very end. The
deep game was worthy of Huntley, and
murder in a terrible form its fitting cli-
max.
"Now," said Charley, at the close of the
recital, lighting his fifth cigar with a certain
satisfaction, "what is to be done? I leave
it to you entirely; but let it be done spee&amp;
ily; ''t were well 't were done quickly I'"
"'There would have been a time for such
a word, to-morrow,'" I retorted; "we need
not be driven; the fact that he believes you
in the Atlantic will prevent him from push-
ing matters."
"But 1 dread every instant's delay! I
can't bear to think he is here, free, and
near my cousin.

I smiled in secret at the soft emphasis on
"cousin," but made no sign.
"Well, if' I understand you, you don't
wish to go at bun in legal form."
"No, not if we can avoid it; anything
but publicity."
I reflected a moment, and not without a
little pang of regret; to have sent him to
Sing Sing for life, this villain of the premier
ordre, in a blazing speech to the bench!
"Do you want to see the man?" I asked
Chancy.
"No, indeed! that is, I am indifferent;
as you elect."
" We can warn him off' &amp;"~ him our
hand, and give him three, five, or 'seven
days to leave the country, and se~ 2~at he
does it, and all without seeing him."
Charley pondered, and was evidently
unsatisfied.
"It 's letting him off with nothing;
besides, I want in some way to be able to
show up the facts to my father, and, if
necessary, to - to the others."
"Then it 's a confession signed and wit-
nessed; not an easy thing to manage, if 1
know the man.~~
"We must try it. rut it squarely to
him, - that or arraignment. He does n't
know that Curtis saw the affair."
"Or that you are alive, for that matter.
I think we might cow him by a combination.
Curtis will help us?"
"The good fellow will do anything; he
promised it, in the name of all the Apostles!"
"Good! now the details."
These were very simple; I wrote two
notes, one to Curtis on the steamer, and
another to a man of my choice at the
Detective Agency.
The afternoon was spent, and we went
up town together to my quarters, which
Chancy agreed to share for the present.
1.Ve dined later in an obscure corner at the
hoffman, and in the evening I a~com-
panied him in a walk up the Avenue,
rea(lily divining, the impulse which led his
steps in that direction. As we were pass-
ing his father's house, a figure appeared in
the doorway. Before I could breathe a
caution, Chancy sprang up two steps and
called in a low voice, "Stephen!"
The old man stood mute ~ moment, and
then caine down the steps like a boy of ten.
"Mr. Charles!"
"'Sh! It 's I, sure enough, bless your
01(1 heart! I shall be home again in a few
days, and you must not speak of seeing me.
has - has Mr. Huntley been here yet,
Stephen?"
"No, sir; he arrived in the steamer with
the ladies, but did not come to the house.
He is expected this evening, I think, sir."
"Listen, Stephen; if he comes he must
not be admitted. Tell him Miss Emma is
16

unwell; anything, but make some excuse
and keep him out."
"But, Mr. Charles-."
"Never mind, I will take the entire re-
sponsibility, and you need have no fear.
You can trust me, can't you, Stephen?"
"You know I would do that, Mr. Charles."
"On no account admit him. I must go
now; I shall conic home to stay very soon."
"God bless you, sir, I hope so; we have
grown old without you, Mi'. Charles." The
faithful old fellow's voice was tremulous as
he spoke. Charley paused at the words.
"My father is well?"
"About as usual, sir; he 's not so strong
as he was. You are well, I hope, sir."
"Quite; not a word, mind, and remember
about --"
"I won't fail, Mr. Charles."
Charley was exultant as we walked on.
"You can't think what a relief it is!"
he said; "it was horrible to think of that
wretch beino' admitted there again. Old
Stephen is ~s good as gold; Huntley ivihl
not get in there to-night, you may be sure."
"Nor to-morrow," 1 responded, sharing
something of his feeling.
"0 that 'to-porrow'! I ache for it!"
It would come soon enough, as all to-mor-
rows do, despite the maxims; and I confessed
to a rather disagreeable foretaste' of its task
in my mind, though I gave the feeling no
words in the long evening of pleasant talk
which we enjoyed amid the chaste sur-
roundings of Coelebs' chambers. So much
tobacco-smoke and such unconscionable
hours, I may honestly aver, were strictly
exceptional under my modest roof-tree.
Huntley was not a little nonplussed, when
he arrived at the house on the Avenue1 to
he informed by Stephen, with much nervous
and rather extravagant politeness, that Miss
Howland was" much fatigued, and begged to
be excused," and that Mr. Wales had "just
stepped out on unavoidable business, and
left, his regrets." He went away in a bail
humor, asking himself angrily if it was
usual for young ladies to "excuse" them-
selves to their fiance's, or for sober bankers
to appoint evening interviews, as Mr. Wales
had done that day, at the office, and be
absent on "business" when the hour ar-
rived. In other days he would have in-
sisted upon the absurdity of such anomalies,
and poor old Stephen's little fraud would
have fhhlen through, it is to be feared;
but the broker had no heart this night to
assert his opinions or his rights. He had
borne himself bravely all the day, had seen
the ladies ashore and in their carriage, with
a smiling promise to call in the evening, and
covered with a witticism the bruise on his
temple that the "boom" had given him.
Then in a round of business calls, reports


122                         CHOISY.

of his successful transactions abroad to
divers financial potentates, and a rapid
running over of the books in his own office,
he so carried himself as to win the com-
mendation of all with whom he came in
contact.
But with the shadows of night arose the
demon of' unrest. Thrown back upon him-
self; with all his thoughts massed in one
horrible memory, the struggle for control
became an unequal combat, an agony. He
had even feared to make the visit at the
Wales mansion, called himself a fool after-
wards, and,, braced by a deep draught of
brandy, started boldly for the house.
"It will wear off," he muttered.
Coming down the steps after hearing
Stephen's messages, he glanced across the
way, and noted signs of life and gayety in
Mrs. Jennings's lighted parlors. He felt
tempted to enter there, but some counter-
impulse prevailed, and he kept on down
the street. His uneasy feet wandered to
Worthington's, but he found the house
empty of people, with only a few lazy ser-
vants about, who vexed him with curious
looks and fawning attentions; the master
himself was out of town, with the world.
He stretched himself in the private room
above and drank furiously; but the solitude
maddened him, and he went out soon again
into the streets. Then he strayed in at Wal-
lack's; the play was "The Colleen Bawn,"
and he came into the lobby at the moment
of the drowning scene, which he watched
with fascinated eyes. Some acquaintances
found him out and drove him wild with
questions. One noticed the contusion on
his forehead.
"It 's the mark of Cain," he said, with a
bitter laugh, and went out.
"By Jove! one might almost believe it!"
said the questioner, recalling the man's
face.
He wandered for hours with aimless but
vigorous steps, drinking recklessly and ig-
norant of his whereabouts, until some con-
genial instinct led him into the glittering
haunts of vice of the West side. Here, as
the central figure of wild and horrible rev-
els, invoked by his open purse, he experi-
rieneed a momentary distractionn.
Long after midnight he found himself at
a far corner of Broadway, overcome with
weariness, but with the same awful unrest
in his brain; it had worn out the body and
raged still with unabated force. He took a
hack to his lodgings. "I must sleep," he
said; "but how?"
He got out at Union Square, and under
the light of a lamp on a blank page torn
from a letter wrote a prescription in tech-
nical terms, signing it with illegible initials.
The sleepy clerk at Hegeman's did not
recognize the writing or letters, but the

appearance of the applicant was satisfactory,
and the mixture only a powerful sedative.
"I wish it immediately; the patient is in
great pain," said Huntley.
It was prepared and given to him, and he
rode to his rooms~ Here he lighted a blaze
of gas, and, taking the opiate at a swallow,
threw himself half dressed on his bed. The
effect of the potion was like that of a gas, -
it spent itself in thirty minutes, leaving him
worse than before. He bounded out of bed.
"Fool! never to have thought of it!" He
went to his secretary and from a drawer
produced a bi~ou medicine-chest. Out of
this he chose a small vial, and a tiny in-
jector with a tube like a needle, and wfth
these returning to his bed he sat down upon
the edge. Then he bared his left arm, -
even in his semi-delirium his hand was
steady as steel, - and filling the miniature
instrument from the bottle he drove the
point through a prominent vein, and forced
the fluid into the wound. Quickly placing
the things on his bed-stand, he rolled over
upon the couch, and in a moment was sunk
in slumber, deep and dreamless as death
itself.
I sent a note to Mr. Huntley at the office
of Huntley &amp; Co. the following morning,
begging that he would call at my office at
three o'clock that day, "on a matter of the
first importance to himself, R. S. V. P."
He had not yet come down town when it
was delivered, but at noon I received a
line from him, saying that he would come
at the hour appointed, or as soon afterwards
as possible.
He came very promptly, and greeted me
with his customary easy grace, a slight club-
acquaintance having subsisted between us;
but I was struck by the alteration in his
face, which had lost something of its iron
rigidity, and its usual pallor had become
lividness.
"Ah! how are you?" he said. "I am
prompt, am I not? although I come in fear
and trembling, as becomes one who enters
into the august presence of Justice. What
is it, Meegs? I half suspect, you know.
Some of my clerks in my absence -?"
There was a vague uneasiness, almost a
dread, expressed. in his face and tone that
gave me a chill. I had never before met
murder face to face, and I shrank a little at
the contact. "Sit down, Mr. Huntley,"I
said, giving him a seat somewhat in the rear
of my large writing-table; "it is a suffi-
ciently serious affair."
He sat down silently, and at the same
moment I gave a short cough. The door of
the inner room opened at the sound, and
the officer Curtis came in, followed by Char-
hey in the same dress he had worn on the
steamer. Can a man be frightened to death?

EXIT HUNTLEY.                              123
They find unwounded corpses on battle- "That is absurd!"
fields, I have read; and I believe this man's I read on without heeding the words:
terror, intensified as it was by the reaction- "Secondly, that, having a wife and two
ary effect of oj~ium, held him for an instant children living in England, as we are abun-
at death's door. dantly able to prove, you have sought, un-
He rose up, overturning his chair, and der an assumed name and character, to con-
reeled against the wall, upon which lie tract a marriage with Mr. Wales's cousin."
seemed to flatten himself, and at which his I paused here, but he remained silent,
spread fingers clutched on either side. His and I read the last count. "Thirdly and
jaw fell, and the protruding eyes were fixed lastly, that on the night of July 1, being
like those of a maniac. I could not see at sea on the steamer -"
that he breathed. It ivas horrible!      "I was attacked by the said Mr. Wales,
Curtis broke the spell with a smothered and in the struggle which ensued he fell'
exclamation, and I readjusted the chair. overboard, or something like, is it not?" -
"Sit down, Mr. Huntley," I sai(l, with The burst was startling. There was only
such sanyfroid as I could assume; "as the one way to deal with him, and I saw Char-
interview is not likely to he a pleasant one, ley had fired up at the man's bravado.
it is the desire of Mr. Wales to make it as "It is useless to waste words, Mi'. Hunt-
brief as possible." I used the name in or- ley. Understand our position; either you
der to impress him with the reality of the must sign this paper in presence of wit-
situation, and the words called the man nesses, which means here and now, or go
back to life. He sank into the seat with a from this office to prison, to await trial for
shuddering groan, and put his hand me- attempted murder."
chanically to his head. I could well imna- A flush stole over his face at the words,
gine that the first definable feeling which but he did not immediately answer.
succeeded the shock was one of immeasura- "This is the sole condition ?" he asked.
ble relief, and I feared the strength he "I have omitted to add that you must
might gather from it. I hastened to secure leave the country at once, though it is rather
the benefit of the moment. "I need a consequence than a condition."
scarcely enter into any explanation of the He was revolving every possible chance,
circumstances which have led to this meet- I could see, and asking questions to gain
ing, Mr. Huntley. They have been fully time.
discussed by Mr. Wales and myself, and he "Men are not commonly ~asked to sign a
has chosen to offer you conditions which self-convicting paper in your courts, - are
reach the limits of leniency." they, Mr. Meegs?"
I pause(l and fumbled diplomatically in "We are not in the courts, Mr. Huntley,
my folio. lie did not speak immediately; fortunately for you. Men in your position,
he had leaned on the table and got a small you may say, rather, are rarely offered such
paper-cutter in his hands, which he turned an opportunity to escape the just punish-
and twisted with his fingers. His face was meat of their crimes."
settling down again into something of its "Why do you let him go?" asked Curtis,
wanted firmness; but his forehead was dank, abruptly, and to my great surprise. I found
and the dark hair seemed to cling upon it no words for immediate reply, and made
as he bent his head without meeting our none, as I saw at once t~hat the diversion
gaze. Charley, I saw, avoided looking at had its effect on Huntley. He glanced at
him; but Curtis watched him closely with the sailor, and winced under the man's
his gray eyes in sober curiosity, steady eyes.
"What do you want of me?" he asked "If I sign this," he said, hurriedly, "I
at last, huskily. presume I am free to follow the final eon-
"Mr. Wales offers you liberty and free- edition in my own i~y and time."
dom from prosecution, demanding simply "Not entirely. To-day is Wednesday;
that you shall sign this paper,~and then - tilere will be a steamer on Saturday, and it
But will you read it?" I held it out is expected, I may say required, that you
to hin, but he looked at it without tak- will take passage in it. In that event it is
ing it. agreed that no use will be made of this
"What does it say?" he asked in a tone document outside of Mr. Wales's family. In
of confidence that rather startled me. the mean time, I may add, you will be sub-
"It is a brief statement cQvering three ject to a certain surveillance which will not
principal charges: first, that on a certain in any way interfere with your ordinary
evening, eighteen months ago, you influ- pursuit of business."
eneed Mr. Wales to go with you to a gain-  "Precisely!" he said with a sneer; "it '5
bling-house in this city, where you were a d-d fine programme!"
accessory to the unlawful use of a draft  Curtis moved uneasily in his chair, and I
which you knew him to have in his posses- hastened to speak.
sion"                                    "There is an end Vo patience; accept or


124                       CHOISY.                                                    A ROSE IS CRUSHED.                  125

refuse. We are wasting time and grace on
you.
I called Quill, and he ushered in a second
patient gentleman, who bowed, but re-
niaine(1 aloof by the door. Huntley noted
him with a quick glance. He hesitated still
a moment, with a simply reckless impulse
to fight to the last; but some other thought
decided him, and, seizing a pen, he signed
the confession boldly.
"Accepted under protest, gentlemen, and
not so much because I fear your ability to
prove the pretty lies, as because of the law's
delays, which I know you are so capable of
employing." He even laughed while Curtis
and myself signed the paper as witnesses.
"It is to be hoped you ~vill severally en-
joy the recompense of your kindly offices.
Egad! it 's like the 'butcher, the baker, and
candlestick-maker'! Working thus in a
trio, you will allow me to say you make a
'whole team'! I suppose 1 may go?"
"Of course - only -Mr. Fergusen, Mr.
Huntley. Mr. Fergusen will in no way in-
convenience you; probably you will not
come into contact at all, but it is well you
should know him, perhaps, to avoid mis-
takes."
"Your considerateness overwhelms me.
In the language of the journals, Mr. Meegs,
you are an ornament to your profession.
Gentlemen, I have the honor -
Charley stepped up to him at the last
moment
"Richard Huntley, or Robert Delafield, is
it possible that anything I might say could
move your heart for the poor woman and
children who belong to you?"
The Englishman glared at the speaker
for an instant with such an expression of
hate as I have never seen equalled in a hu-
man face. Then he spoke five words, - the
reader may thank inc for not printing them
here, - and, turning on his heel, went out,
followed by the detective.
Curtis wiped his head with the bandanna,
while Charley brought out some cigars.
"Nice lad, that," said the officer; "he
'minds me of a Spanish captain we caught
on the slave-coast, when I was a boy in the
navy. I did n't quite understand your
trade, but I hope you are quits with
him."
There was a rare good dinner served
"for three" at Delmonico's presently, dur-
ing which the sturdy old sailor warmed into
a flow of reminiscences and good-nature.
We saw him aboard, later; and when
he sailed again that day week he was
richer in worldly goods by a handsome
chronometer timepiece from Tiffany's, with
his own and the donor's name in honorable
association graven therein. As long as his
precarious life is siiared, Charley Wales has
a brave friend in John Curtis.

Charley left me at my rooms in the even-
ing.
"I must try to see my father to-night:
I can't wait."
"As you th~nk best, though I don't think
you need fear anything more from iluntley
in that quart~r. I fancy the Avenue will
not see him again."
Nor did it. On some business 1)lea cov-
ering designs best known to himself he left
town the next day, and I received a dispatch
from Fergusen in the evening from Newark,
in which salubrious city the broker had
sought seclusion. Saturday arrived, and I
looked anxiously for the detective during
the afternoon. He came in at last, and
took the offered chair like a tired man.
"The bird is gone, eb?" II asked, quickly.
"Off, sure enough, and seemed glad to
go. You don't think he '11 be much missed
down there in Wall Street?"
The tone was inquiring.
4' I fancy not, he has been out of general
business almost entirely for some time."
"Perhaps you 're right. I did n't know;
he was wonderful shy the last morning in
the street. Thank you; it 's liberal. My
respects to Mr. Wales. Good day, sir."
Did they "miss" him? It was not
known, and Wall Street keeps its secrets
well. The world wondered for a day or
two; somebody seized the books, too,
when it was known that the man was gone
for good and all; but there were no "devel-
opments," and in that mart of gold what is
man that he should be remembered?
CHAPTER XXI.
A ROSE IS CRUSHED.
WITH the connivance of Stephen, Char-
Icy made his way unobserved in the even-
ing to the library of the house in the Avenue,
where his father sat alone over the night's
journals. The old servitor had said that
Mr. Wales was not so strong as he had
been; but it was not yet known to Chancy
that some months before the banker had
been prostrated with severe and danger-
ous illness. I had omitted to speag of it to
him, supposing, indeed, that he must have
known it; but, as the reader is aware, he
did not, and was consequently unprepared
for the great change in his father's appear-
ance.
Time and incessant toil had broken the
man of iron at last; it was the first actual
sickness of his life, and brought with it the
first realizing sense that Nature, tried and
disdained, l)rooks no plea of" business" nor
yields to any force of will in the execution
of her laws and the infliction of her punish-
ments. She had been kind, cruelly kind,

to him, and borne the long subordination
ivell; hut wheii the avenging stroke fell it
was merciless an(l terrible, and he rallied
fi-om it only to find weakiWss and weariness
in the place of his former strength, -a strong
shackle on hip and limb never again to be
loosened. He was compelled to modify his
habits, but he resented savagely the advice
of his physician to retire from active busi-
ness. lie would cling to the last to some
mimicry of the 01(1 life, and in his bitterness
struggle to the very end against the convic-
tion of powers impaired and duties defied.
It is an every-day picture of the working-
day world, this soulless slavery of age, this
cnin~ino bondaoe of the to the
graybeard
idols of his prime. His all is this little
concomitant of existence "stamped in
gold." Life has no other meaning for him:
what to him must be the meaning of
death?
It may be that other and different feelings
came to the banker with the sense of weak-
ness and the dread realization of physical
decay, awakening the cravings of age and
rendering the old chosen isolation oppres-
sive. Certain it is that he welcomed the
return of his niece with marked plefisure,
an~l Emma's pain in finding him so broken
was mitigated by gratification at his unusual
display of feeling.
Charley was shocked and saddened by the
striking change that had come upon his f~-
thor. lIe advanced with a faltering heart,
as Stephen withdrew, closing the door soft-
ly behind him; and Mr. Wales's face assumed
a puzzled and rather dissatisfiedd expression
as the young man paused by his chair with
his hat in his hand. The father failed to
recognize his son.
"You do not know me, father: it is
Chancy," said the loor boy; and it re-
quired a strong effort to nerve the trem-
bling lips even for those few words. He
had studied, too, what he was to say, but
now when the time for utterance had come
the words failed hiiAt
The banker started, and seemed about to
rise, but he did not do so, nor did he give
his hand to his son. After one sharp, rec-
ognizing look at Chancy's face, he withdrew
his eyes and fixed them on Macancy; he
was evidently trying to mould his features
into the old rigid lines. It was not alto-
gether a surprise; he had reasoned, as he
thought, infallible, that just such an event
would occur sooner or later, just such a re-
turn of the prodigal when the last resource
had been exhausted, and the wayward spir-
it humbled with suffering and want. He
had made the contingency a study at times,
more frequently of late, and, crushing
some faint impulses which stirred his heart,
had resolved to be just in his actions above
all questions of affection; and leniency had

no conspicuous place in Mr. Wales's ideas of
justice. He intended so to act now, though
for an instant he had been stas-tled into softer
feelings by Chancy's appearance; he had
not reckoned on so early a denouement. He
remained quite silent, collecting huis thoughts,
and Charley got a little self-possession in
the pause.
"I am sorry, father, if my presence is un-
welcome to you. I did not come on my-
own account, - at least not entirely; I had
no longer any right to do that, as 1 am fully
aware. I cannot explain things in any way
so well as this paper will do it, and you
would rather read it than hear my words,
perhaps; will you look at it, please?"
Charley produced and extcnde'l to his
father the confession of Richard Huntley.
The hanker had looked up rather curiously,
and received it mechanically from his hands.
He was not pleased with this feature of the
interview; he believed it to be some small
piece of charlatanry, and it was very bitter
for him to think his son had descended to
~such a method of gaining favor. Without
opening the paper, he asked, coldly, "What
is this?"
"It is the witnessed acknowledgment of
a villain who has deceived and injured all
of mms, father. I hope it will not pain you too
greatly: the man is Richard Huntley."
It was a little strange that conviction of
their truth went straight to the banker's
heart with these words; he had never
formed any defined suspicion of Iluntley,
but his earliest judgment of the man had
never changed, and it had never been
wholly favorable to him. In his business
connections with Wales, Burton, &amp; Co., Mr.
Huntley never found himself in a position
of entirely unguarded trust; he had noted
the fact often enough, but ascribed it read-
ily to the well-known cautious policy of the
house. Mr. Wales accepted human nature
en masse with reservations; lie accepted
Huntley with an additional allowance, for
which ~there is no ready word of description.
There was not a shadow of feeling in the
banker's face, however, as he proceeded de-
liberately to open the document. He said
simply, "I trust you do not make such
an extraordinary statement unadvisedly."
Charley remained standing, and watched
his father with a beating heart, as he read
down the sheet. Mr. Wales first glanced
at the signatures, and then passed slowly
and carefully over the first allegation, read-
ing it twice, but with a still implacable face.
He looked up after it, however, and said
quietly, "Won't you sit down?"
The young man murmured," Thank you,"
and sat down humbly enough. After the
second clause the banker wrinkled his brows,
and Charley, watching him covertly, was
glad to see some evidence of feeling.


126                        CIIOISY.

"You know this to he true?" he asked
sharply; he did not specify the charge, but
Charley had followed his eyes down the
page, and knew which he meant.
"I lived more than a month in his wife's
house in England," he replied.
"You might have been deceived."
"You forget, father: he confesses the
charge~ Even if he had not, it could be
proved beyond question."
Mr. Wales moved uneasily in his chair
and looked up quickly as he read the last
charge. "He tried to take your life?"
"It was partly my fault. I labored hard
to avoi(l him on the ship, but he recognized
me finally. We had some words and I - I
struck him; he threw me over the ship's
side, and I was saved by the merest chance."
The banker drew a long, painful breath,
and remained silent and thoughtful for
some moments.
"What have you done?" he asked.
"There seemed to be only one thing to
do and avoid publicity. We got him to
sign the paper, and he is to leave the coun-
try immediately." Afterwards, at his fa-
ther's request, Charley described more mi-
nutely the struggle on the ship and the in-
terview at my office; at the end he said,
"This will be very painful for my cousin;
would it not be best to engage Mrs. Jen-
nings to tell her?~'
"Yes; I think so," replied Mr. Wales.
There was silence after this, and some-
thing like perplexity in the banker's mind,
occasioned by the unexpected developments.
Gentler impulses were struggling for pre-
dominance, but the old man's stubborn preju.
dice died hard.
"Where are you staying?" he asked at
last, and rather abruptly.
"With Mr. Meegs at his rooms for the
present."
"Have you any plans?"
Charley could not determine whether the
tone was kindly or not, but he bore up
bravely.
"I have no settled plans," he said; "this
matter has completely absorbed my thoughts.
I had an idea, however, of going West and
finding something to do. I have still some-
thing left," he added with a flushed face,
"and I might make my way there in some
business."
"It is not a bad project," said his father,
more kindly; "the best, perhaps. Mean-
time you had better come home."
Charley's heart was in his throat at the
words. Before he could speak Mr. Wales
asked, "You will see Mrs. Jennings?"
"Yes, at once; to-night, if I am not too
late."
" It would be as well, certainly."
Charley got u~ to go, and his father rose
at the same time, but in an absent way.

Chanley was obliged to ask hhn for the pa-
per, which he retained in his hand.
"I ought to show it to Mrs. Jennings, or,
at least, be provide with it, that I may do
so, if necessary. I shall not see you again
sir, to-night. You said- you think I should
come home?"
"Of course; there will be time enough
to arrange your plans afterwards."
"Then I will come to-morrow and be
very happy to do so. I thank you for the
privilege, father. Good night!"
He put out his hand tiiaidly; but Mr.
Wales took it and held it a moment, while
he looked at the young man fully for the
first time and noted his thin face.
"Good night, my son," he said soberly,
yet kindly; "you have found experience a
hard teacher, have you not?"
"I have indeed, sir; I hope the lesson
will be a useful one."
"I trust it may. Good night. I shall
not mention to your cousin that you are
here."
Charley went out as he had come in, see-
ing no one but Stephen; but a light hand
was running softly and rather sadly over
the piano keys, as he passed the parlor
doors, and his heart bounded at the sounds.
"You are coming back, Mr. Charles?"
asked the servant anxiously at the door.
"To-morrow, Stephen, to-morrow, you
good old soul!"
His heart was in the skies as he ran
across the street. There was a blaze of
light and a rattle of merry voices in the
drawing-rooms, hut he hardly noticed them
particularly.
"Will you tell Mrs. Jennings that an old
friend wishes to see her in private for five
minutes?" he said to a bewildered domes-
tic, who subsequently declared that "his
voice struck her all of a heap, ~t did, but
she 'd never 'a' known it was Mr. Charles."
Mrs. Jennings, coming lato the library,
was unspeakably astonished and a little dis-
mayed to see the singer of the ship standing
therein, and could not restrain a momentary
impulse to call back the servant. Charley's
quick words checked her, "Don't be
alarmed, Mamma Jennings; it 's only poor
me, - Charley Wales!"
"Bless my soul! you poor boy!" lit was
all she could say. Tears were in her eyes
and in her throat, and only a woman's over-
flowing pity in her heart sweeping away all
other thoughts. She ivent up to him and
took the bearded face into her two hands to
see it better, and the smiling eyes reassured
her. She kissed him lightly on the brow, and
then gave way to a little burst of tears that
prevented all speech for the moment.
Charley made her sit down.
"1 bring you a very painful revelation,
but it must be made without delay. We

A ROSE IS CRUSHED.                 127

have all been terribly deceived, mam-
ma!"
Mrs. Jennings's emotions on hearing of
Huutley's duplicity (for Chancy told her
but half) all touk the form of sympathy for
Emma.
"The poor child! what an escape for
her! It will be very bitter for her, though
I'm not sure- lain glad you are hereglad
you are the deliverer. You have been a
great scamp, Mr. Charles! Of course you
have seen your father."
"He was very good to me; I am going
back home to-morrow."
~' You haven't seen Emma, then?"
"No, I must not; I do not want to see
her until she knows all."
"To be sure, Mr. Wisdom! And that
was you all the time on the steamer? How
strange it is! The wretch is going; we
shall not have to see him again?"
"Never, I trust."
"I can't realize it! It 'sjust like a dream,
and I sha' n't sleep a wink after it. Poor
Em! she must know it at once!" 1
"You will tell her gently; do you think
she - she will find it very hard?"
The wise woman smiled wickedly at him,
despite her perplexity.
"I can't tell, I hope not; only, you must -
There! let me think about it."
"I leave it all to you; only I must go
home to-morrow, and I want to see my
cousin," said he, plaintively.
"So he shall," laughed the lady, "though
he does n't half deserve it. I ought not to
say that, however, since you have saved her a
from what I can't bear to think of. You I
are lucky to have so well atoned, sir! -
There, I 'm talking nonsense. I 'II see Em- a
ma in the morning;* I must think about it." a
"You won't say anything about the ship c
singer?" said Charley, rising, and with ill-
diso-ulsed anxiety. d
'~'1t does n't seem necessary; but she d
must know you are here." U
"I think not; father will not tell her yet, h
and Stephen is bound with oaths. Don't tell e
her, please."
"Ah, I see! Well, I won't, though I V
may tell her who found the villain out." c
"If you like; it won't m~tter. I shall e
see her in the afternoon. I will go now.
Good night."                           U
Half-way to the door he turned to her u
again and fixed a hungry, beseeching look ~i
on her face.                           n
"Mamma Jennings, you know! Will you
tell me something?"
"That depends, young man!"           V
"Does Emma - Has she love
much?."                      dkimvery n
The temptation to punish him was strong, n~
but there was n~ resisting the appeal of h
that young face! -

"Emma never loved any one but a naughty
fellow who did n't deserve
The sentence did not reach a conclusion.
The two lithe arms went around the mam-
ma's neck, and a profusion of whiskers
obstructed speech and vision for a moment;
and in the next the gentleman-passenger of
the steerage went out with flying coat-tails
at the door.
"How happy they will be!" said the
good woman, exultantly; "and to think
of that wretch! He did send the paper,
after all! You are only a blind old woman,
Susan Jennings!"
The "mamma" went unannounced, next
morning, to Emma's own room, and caught
that young woman dreaming over some
written papers that she hid hastily as her
visitor entered. Mrs. Jennings did not
fail to notice the troubled face, upon which
something of the old look of suffering had
come back; but it gave her no great pain
or uneasiness now. She felt tolerably sure
of the case; her quick perception told her
that the old love had struggled into power
again among the old associations, and she
guessedd shrewdly at the condition of feeling
[n which Emma had fallen; hut she guessed
niy half of the truth.
"I came to look after you, you truant!"
die cried, gayly; "here are two evenings
lone, and we have not had a glimpse of you.
~ll the world has been calling, or 1 should
mve come sooner."
"I know," said Emma, embarrassed. "I
vas expecting Mr. Huntley all the time,
md could not go out. He has not been
here at all since we arrived. I don't know
- I suppose we ought to send and inquire
~bout him; had we not? I asked uncle last
might, but he did not seem to think it ne-
essary. Yet he may be ill."
"Your nncle is generally right, dear;
Lon't fret about it. Come here and sit
[own by me; there, like that. It's a long
~me, ls n't it, since you and the old lady
ave had a good, old-fashioned chat togeth-
Emma had come rather wearily yet gladly
o the old place by the mamma's knee, and
crouched there silently, not meeting her
yes. Her faoe was hidden from Mrs.
innings; but could that lady have seen it,
lie look of mingled fear and expectation
pon it might have surprised her. As it
ins, she wound her arm about the bent
eck and spoke tenderly.
"I am going to ask you a strange ques-
on, puss. You must n't he frio'htened.
Vould you care very, so very much if you
ever saw Mr. Huntley ao'ain?"
Emma looked up quickly, faint with mo-
mentary terror; but the smiling eyes checked
er first dreadful thought and left her in
painful bewilderment.


128                               CHOISY.
"0 mamma! what a question! I can't and now my occupation 's gone. We shall
think what you mean!" all be very happy now, and must never
Was it worth while to delay the blow think again of our escape. There, go cool
which Mrs. Jennings in her soul felt sure those burning cheeks. We shall look for
was no blow at all? She thought not. you over this evening."
"I mean simply that it is so; nothing in She got aWay with that, and left Emma
the least dreadful has happened t6 Mr. alone with her thoughts. They were happy
Huntley, but you never will see him again." but tumultuous thoughts, for which there
Startled and bewildered as she was, seemed to be no intelligible expression in
Emma could only comprehend the one great her restless movements through the morning.
fact conveyed in the sober and convincing Sometirn~s she sat down determinedly and
words; could only feel a great burden lifted tried to soothe them into rest, smiling and
from her, anti a flood of exquisite feeling shuddering, and smiling again; hut it would
conquering all other thoughts, filling her all end with a quick brushing away of obsti-
heart and surging to her eyes. In these, nate, unbidden tears, and a precipitate
raised a single instant to her own, Mrs. abandonment of her seat. Then she tried
Jennings read nothing but gladness; and to busy herself with a thousand little use-
though the girl drooped against her shiv- less things, and went off in an absent dream
ersag and sobbing hysterically, the lady had over every one. Twenty times she went
no disturbing fear.                   to her door, and listened intently; and
When Emma grew calmer her friend told twenty times she came up to "Sultan" in
her careftdly and tenderly the whole story, his gilded cage, and watched him with un-
all that she herself knew; how this man, responsive eyes as he heat his wings against
having a living wife and children, deserted the bars in a wild desire to reach the ripe,
in another land, had meditated such a cruel red lips. "Will be come to-day?" she
wrong to her, and would have succeeded whispered to the bird; and just as plainly
but for a watchful eye and a brave heart that as ever bird spoke, he chirped back, "Yes,
came in good time to save her. he will come!"
Emma listened in sad, tearful silence to At last when the lunch-bell rang, she
the end. went to her glass, and put a rose in her
"How dreadful it all is!" she said in a dress, a creamy June rose, tinged with the
low tone, adding, with sudden fear, "I shall faintest pink, plucked from the bouquet on
not see him again, - shall I?" the mantel. It was only a pretext, after
"Never, darling. Do you know, I feel all, for looking at herself, and in no way
as if I ought to come in for a little blame, could excuse the long thoughtful survey.
ton -"                                   Yes, she was very lovely. IFXw the first
"0 no, no; not you, mamma. You were time in her life, perhaps, she allowed her-
always good, and never so good as now! self to accept, even dwell on, the truth;
But it is terrible!" hut now it made her glad. Then she went
After that there was silence, but Emma down stairs, and crossed the threshold of
was very calm; so much so that the good the breakfast-room bravely.
lady was rather nonplussed. She said at He was there, the tall, dark-bearded
last, unable to check the womanly impulse, singer of the ship. There was no surprise
"And your deliverer, child; you do not in her face, nothing hut great joy and timid,
even a~k -" voiceless interrogation; but she stopped
The bright fact raised so quickly to hers, and trembled, and put out her hand to a
crimson with happy and half~guilty blushes, chair.
and full of joy, stopped her eager tongue. lie was at her side in an instant, and
"I know!" was the low-spoken answer; stood there irresolute, trembling like her-
and then the burning face was hid in the self, but with all his soul in the great brown
kindly bosom. But presently she lifted eyes. He did not touch her, but he spoke:
her head, and, drawing down the loved "Emma, my darling!"
face, kissed it with rapid and breathless And then she fell on his breast and cir-
kisses. cled his neck with her quivering arms,
"Bless me!" cried the mamma as soon hiding her face on his heart.
as she recovered breath, "what a go- "0 Charley I" and her eyes met his
between I am! There, you odd thing! then, closer than ever before; "how I have
save them for some one else; they '11 be longed for you!"
claimed soon enough, I dare say! And "My poor darling! yet I have been near
you are mussing me dreadfully. I shall you -"
run away; i've got forty thomlsand things  "Yes, I knew it."
to do!"                                 "You knew it?"   He was startled.
"But, mamma __ "                      She looked in his eyes with the warm,
"Tut! let me go! I won't answer any trusting look of a woman who gives all
snore questions. I have done my errand, without the words.

WON Al

"Did you think I would not know you?
I did, from the very first moment on the
ship."
"And you gave no sign!"
"Did I not? I was so unhappy! 0
Charley! I can't bear to think of it; but
I trusted you!"
He gathered her closer with hi~ strong
arms.
"And loved me a little?" he asked.
"I have always loved you, when you did
not know it; ever since I can remember!"
There could be but one answer to that,
and he gave it; hut one way to repeat the
avowal without words, and that she adopted.
Then they sat down like two people in a
dream; and old Stephen, who, after a peep
at them, had kept the gate like Horatius
of old all this time against a discouraged
domestic bearing a huge tray of steaming
dishes, now let that functionary pass, and
walked away to the vestibule, where he
blew his nose excitedly, with much ditl'usion
of bandanna, and made a haIfa dozen absurd
and unnecessary rearrangements of the
door-mat.
How beautiful she was to Charley's hungry
eyes, as she busied herself at the little ta-
ble, and made a parade of ministering to
his wants who wanted nothing! How
lovely the old-new face, now timid and
blushing under his relentless eyes, now bold
with love's boldness, and meeting his gaze
with the conscious joy that comes but once
in life!
How noble and wonderful he was! No
one was ever half so good, so heroic, so
tender, so brave, so admirable as he!
And what a love was theirs! Surely
no two had ever so loved before.
The poor, crushed rose! she took it ten-
deny from her dress and gave it to him,
when he begged for it, and seemed to want
as well the hand that gave it; but it had 1
come between their hearts, and been pressed -
out of all semblance of a rose~
sweet, strong odor made it beautiful still, I
and in its martyrdom it had been sanctified.
Happy the paths of those who have found I
a crushed rose somewhere ~n the weary
way!
CHAPTER XXII.
WON AND LOST.
S
CHARLEY did not "go out West." Those s
far-away, industrious votnmunities, whose s
names seem the synonyms of enterprise and
success, will never rejoice in the accession
to their population of that reconstructed t
and thoroughly estimable young man. For s
him the problem of the future was resolved 'J
in a glow of love's sunshine and by love's n
spirit hands in that morning hour whose c
17

~D LOST.                           129
events we have just described. Not that he,
as my impulsive reader, being also young in
heart, if not in years, may have imagined,
not that he and his true "ladye-love" were
forthwith launched in a painted boat upon
a painted sea, and amid the dazzling and
sulphuric surroundings of a modern "trans-
formation scene" wafted by scented breezes
to some swbet, secluded, and mysterious
hourne, following in the wake of Monte
Cristo and the princess to slow music and
an invisible chorus. The advantages of a
scenic denouement of that kind are unde-
niably very great, and to none more patent
than the writer, - than to writers in gen-
eral, I fancy, who must ever endure the
pain of having the fbw last moments of
their little comedies made chaotic by a
rising audience and a shuffle of impa-
tient feet towards the door. There is,
indeed~ something enlivening in the smoky
ending of a romance that sends the two
happy ones away under full canvas to find
and people Avalon; the process perpetuates
theis felicity, and they escape the rude
after-touch of the vulgar practical by disap-
pearing at once and forever from our eyes;
beside such an attractive and inspiring con-
clusion the trite old addendum that "they
were married and lived happily ever after-
wards" becomes positively coarse~, and
retains no quality to recommend it beyond
great convenience to the scribe. I confess
a leaning to the poetical climax. 1 like
the somewhat hackneyed, but ever-alluring
idea of seclusion from the world, and the
shared solitude of Byron's dream. I toss
my hat to About's gallant Marquis, and
his exquisite picture of a far island in a
military sea, "upon that isle a single palm-
tree with you (Ia liien aime'c) at its foot, and
at your feet myself!"
But it is .ju~t pos4ble that to our Charley
the simple earthlyy - nay, vulgar, if you will
- culmination was so entirely satisfactory as
;o leave no room for an unspoken desire. His
irst step was to make Emma promise to
narry him in three months' time, a compact
:o which she subscribed with commendable
resignation . Then he did what all the
doctors had not been able to do, he got his
ather away from Wall Street, and forth-
rith transported the household down to a
luiet corner of the New England beach,
vhere they were joined by Mrs. Jennings
md her family, and where the summer days
ped to such joyous measures that even the
low blood of the worn-out banker warmed
uto neal~ life.
I was permitted the happiness of joining
he circle, and shared, for a brief season,
something of the gladness that animated it.
throughh my life I shall carry the pleasant
memory of that time, - of Charley and his
constant kindness; of Miss lowland, whom

/


130                'CHOISY.

to know was to worship with almost re-
ligious reverence ; of Clare, whose untamed
soul had caught a serious, perhaps a wistful,
shade from the spectacle of Emma's crowned
life ; and of Mrs. Jennings, who had lost a
little of her absolutism, and was the embodi-
ment of motherly sweetness to the happy
trio, to all of whom she was the loved
" mamma."
Before they came back to town I had
gone to other skies. I had promised to
" stand up " with Charley ; but before the
day came round fate and a doctor had in-
tervened, and the ocean rolled between us.
The years go on, and more than one has
dropped to the rear since .that day of mar-
riage bells. Messages come to me in far-
away corners, and grow .old in the transit ;
but they tell me all is well with Charley in
the new life. His father, I hear, has practi-
cally withdrawn from the street, and the
young man gives a certain guidance to the
affairs of the great office in his place ; but I
have been informed that the old name will
soon disappear altogether from its ancient
niche, and be known no more in the active
mart. Meantime a river-side nest has sprung
up among the cedars, where, years ago,
three laughing children chased butterflies
and filled the shady hollows with the echoes
of their simple nursery songs. It is hal-
lowed ground now. Of those young voices
some are silent, and will sing no more on
earth ; but the memory is sweet to Charley
Wales and his beautiful wife, who are dwell-
ing there among the treasured scenes, hav-
ing realized the hope of their lives after
many perils and grievous pains.
I was standing alone, only the other day,
at a corner of the grand Promenade at
Nice. A few people moved lazily along the
walk, and a thin line of vehicles clattered
by me in the roadway. The wonderful
trottoir of other days, which for animation
and display in the winter time was without
a rival in Europe, was now a desolate shad-
ow of itself, and shrouded in a gloom which
needed not the presence of maimed men in
uniform and sad-faced women begging aid
in the name of the Geneva Cross to
heighten its sombreness. From the long
line of noble villas all signs of life had fled.
The great Casino gates were closed and
locked, and a subscription-box hung thereon
with the ever-present appeal of Secours aux
Blessed's staring at the passer-by.
Standing thus and gazing idly down at
the rock-strewn beach, where the low-voiced
Mediterranean waves followed out each
other in tranquil succession and broke
without sound upon the stones, I had lost
myself in a vague, dreamy meditation which
drifted away into seaside fancies of a thou-
sand things, -mostly sad they were. I had

been wondering, indeed, if there might not
be a thread of meaniing in that eternal and
unending wave-song at my feet, if in the
soft swash of those wonderful azure waters,
over which fair Helen of old fled to luckless
Troy, and on whose " sounding shore "
blind Homer sang, there was not some un-.
known measure. of words, which, if we
could but interpret them, would tell us such
tales of wonder of the ages dead and gone
and the great souls who faded with them,
as would shame the poor lives and the
feeble deeds of to-day.
And still as I stood and dreamed two shat-
tered relics of my race came and sat on a
bench near by: one, a soldier of the line, in
soiled red pants and a tattered great-coat
of blue ; the other, a Garibaldian, in a
crimson shirt and cap and enormous jack-
boots.
" I lost my arm at Dijon, comrade," said
the last; "and you -?"
"I was shot down at Villejuif, under the
walls of Paris."
Paris ? The name had lost its meaning;
from the soldier's lips it fell like that of a
buried- thing whom yesterday we called
man and friend, and who to-day is dust.
There is no longer a Paris. A hideous,
spectre decked in cheap tinsel, a painted*
and bedizened thing, will flaunt itself to-
morrow before the world, and borrow the
old name to conceal the fraud. But no one
will be deceived, and all will turn away
weary and sick at heart to see the Moenad
revel where ruled the queen. La reine est
morte, and there is no succession.
People are coming and going in the walk,
and a murmur that flies swiftly among them
reaches me and disturbs my fancies. I turn
with indolent curiosity and follow the direc-
tion of the general gaze. Down the broad
avenue a pony-phaeton moves rapidly, driv-
en by a lady who sits alone, - the groom in
his perch behind can hardly be called a
companion, - and I am able only to catch a
glimpse of her face, as the fairy equipage
flashes past. But its cold yet marvellous
beauty thrills me:I with a strange feeling,
while more than one voice in that outspoken
throngr comes to my ear, "How lovely she
is still'!"
It is not strange to me, that clear mixed
profile, with the smouldering gray eyes and
the pallid but rounded cheeks. 1 saw it first
amid the strange surroundings of the great
rouge-et-noir table at Monaco, and had gazed
with wonder at that magnificent but icy
framework of a soul. She was playing, -
playing with a listless, contemptuous hand
that tossed thousands upon the cloth with an
air of utter indifference, and a face that gave
nio token, only that in its very immobility
one might read the epitaph of feeling.
While 1 watched it the cold, careless eyes

fell upon me and lingered for an instant -
with something like a flash in their clear
depths. I felt myself flush and tremble
under the scrutiny, and looked away in boy-
ish confusion. When I turned again she
was idly following the dealer's cards, and I
saw her eyes no more. They told me, when
I asked, that she was Nina Choisy, and at
the C6rcle the brave gentlemen shrugged
their shoulders at the name, and looked at
me a little angrily I thought.
More than the name they could tell me
nothing. The woman moved in their world
still, but moved apart. Not that she was
unapproachable, but a certain indefinable
renown had attached itself to her name. The
few who had sought favor at her hands came
back discomfited, and, warned by the ex-
ample, men withdrew, and ventured no more

WON AN~

T HE END.

Cambridge: Electrotyped and Printed by Welch, Bigelow, &amp; Co.

~D LOST.      '131
the siege perilous. That the respected her
was evident from the fact that they never
spoke of her.
And she ?- she had lived on after the
wreck that left her stranded and desolate
on the shore froni which she had hoped to
escape. She lives still the passive, aimless
life of a strong but unresisting soul which
has been beaten to earth by the hand it
loved, and cares to rise no more.
Stone her, if you yill, ye righteous, and
waken thus, as it seems your part to do, the
evil that would fain sleep. Drive innocence
mad by the cry of madness. Fan the spark
which unnoticed would die, until you burn
the world. Cry havoc, and tell us of our
guilt. Torture us with anticipated punish-
ment, until we shall forget the very name of
goodness, and remember only evil.


  
             
         
       
   
