
    ----CITATION----
        Logan, Olive, (1839-1909). The Good Mr. Bagglethorpe .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7111
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The good Mr. Bagglethorpe 
            
               OLIVE LOGAN'S NEW STORY

THE GOOD
MR. BAGGLETHORPE.
BY OLIVE LOGAN.

CHAPTER I.-TIlE
II.-THE
III.-TIlE
IV.-TIIE
V.-TIIE
VI.-TIIE

PRINCE.
GODDESS.
HOUSE WITII A HISTORY.
GOOD Mit. BAGGLET1ORPE ALARMED.
WATCHER IN TIIE STREET.
PRINCE INVADES THE CASTLE.

VII.-THE CHARMED CIRCLE.

VIII.-TILE
IX.-TIHE
X.-TIIE
XI.-TIIE

CARNIVAL.
NEW ROMEO.
RECKONING WITH THE HOST.
ANGRY SEA.

XII.-T LIE END.
TIE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY

1869.

ii


F

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by
OLIVE LOGAN,
in the Clerk's Ofice of the District Court of the United. States for the Southern
District of New-York.

Tim drowsy afternoon of a sunny autumn
day, which had found its way into the Christ-
mas week of December by mistake.
In a quiet house at Number Seventeen,
One Thousandth street, iarlynburg, (a sub-
urb of New-York,) the drowsy afternoon
crept past before the eves of a benign-look-
ing middle-aged lady, in spectacles, and with
her needlework before her;
Mrs. Gentry.
The pussy-cat dozed in the corner, the ca-
nary slept on its perch, and the dog lay basking
in the broad path of sun upon the yellow
carpet.
Mrs. Gentry's needlework slipped silently
to the floor, her eyes closed, and she slept.
And -the brawny Ellen snored in accordance
mnthe kitchen; and the clock ticked drowsily
on the whitewashed wall; and all was som-
nolence and silence.
Mr. Gentry, tapping away with his little
hammer at his little watch-springs and trin-
kets of tiny brass, with his crutches erect
against the work-bench gravely looking on,
in the little back-room up-stairs, was hardly
noisier than the clock.
There came a click, as of a key turning in
a lock, followed immediately by the signal
lang ! of a heavy street-door.  The Prince
had arrived to blow the bugle-horn and wake
the inmates of the enchanted castle. Mrs.
Gentry started to her feet ; the pussy-cat
mewed lustily, and the dog barked and wag-
ged his tail with delight ; and the brawny
Ellen ceased snoring, and smiled, and put the
tea-kettle on. The canary jumped off its perch
and chirped merrily, and the clock fell to
ringing its five o'clock bell, and all was joy-

ful noise and activity in the house - for Willie
Gentry had come home.
Ile was a noble-looking youth, with broad
shoulders, well thrown back, and a head which
lie carried with the ails of a king. His hair
clustered in thick masses of soft, dark brown,
much the same as his mother's had been he-
fore time had increased the value of hers by
showering silver there. His hazel eyes were
playful and vivacious in expression.  The
high, fine forehead was of a mat whiteness,
equaled only by the brilliancy and purity of
Parian marble; and the deep carmine lips re-
minded one of some luscious tropical fruit,
whose red ripeness is beautiful to the eye :anl
staining to the touch.  his step was light
and elastic as that of a young fawn, but in
spite of this lie had not time to reach the little
drawing-room before his mother had tripped
out to meet hiiA, for her step was scarcely
heavier than his own
It was well the red lips did not stain-
for if they had, in what condition would
Mrs. -Gentry's cheeks and forehead have
been
" My darling boy !" she exclaimed. " My
true young prince
" Mother, you're a trump," said the Prince.
Where's Pop ?"
" O you dreadful child ! why will you call
your father by that frightful title?  lie is in
his snuggery.  But don't call him by that.
horrid name, will you, dear?"
"No, mother, I won't," he answered laugh.
ingly ; " I won't, I'll call him Daddy. Where's
Daddy ? Ah ! here lie cones I IIere's my an-
cestor," as Mr. Gentry entered on his crutch-
es. " Here's my Governor 1  My dear old

THE GOOD MR. BAGGLETILORPE.
CIAPTEIR  I.
TIlE lINCE.


7 IE GOOD AJR. BAGGLETHORPE.

YOUNG    MIE s  11I L..

Pop!   My rampaging old Pop ! My High
Daddy!'
"I knew you were home, my boy," said
Mr. Gentry, seating himself, and laying his
crutches on the floor within easy reach,
"Something told me you had come. ~
What was it told you, father ?" asked
Will.
"Never mind, my boy. But if by any
chance you should think it was love, yoU
Won't he far wrong."
Will Gentry smoothed the few w hite hairs
on his father's forehead, stooping over it
fondly, and-again it was well that the red
lips did not stain.
" Tea's ready," said the brawny Ellen,
appearing at the door and laughing wildly
in Will's face, for no earthly reason except
that she was glad to see him.
It was a true American tea. Tiere were
slap-jacks, and pie, and molasses, and cake,
and tea, and yellow cream, and apple-sauce.
And plenty of every thing
Pop." said Will-and it Li sad to know
that ie spoke with his mouth full-"Pop, I
believe I'm getting quite dissipated."
Mrs. Gentry looked up in alarm,
"Don't frighten your mother, Will," said
his father ; "explain yourself."
Out till twelve o'clock last night at 31r.
Pearson's Christmas dinner--''
Oh ! interrupted Mrs. Gentry, " eh/ is
not dissipation-to go to a tristnas dinnter
at your employer's house-and very proud I
ant of his ligh appreciation of you, tny dear.
It is not every New-York merehaut would in-
vite leis book-keeper to a dinner at his house
in Fifth avenue. If that is all you mean by
dissipation, I am quite proud of it."
But that is not all."
"Don't frighten me~c, Willie,"1 pleaded the
mother.
"Don't frighten us, my son," said Mr.
Gentry.  "11onor your father and humor

your mother, that your days may be long in
the land."
You won't let a fellow talk," said the
young nan. " All I mean to say is this-I
am going out again to-ight."
" Where '.
" Ah ! that's the secret.  I give it you in
a thousand to guess what I have got on the
tapis for to-night."
"Tpis, dear," repeated Mrs. Gentry, cor-
recting the boy's pronunciation of the French
word.
"Well, tappy then,mother. Pop, what do
you think I've got on the tappy for to-night?"
-'I couldn't say, my boy. I couldn't pos-
sibly say," replied the elder Gentry, rather
regretfully, as though it were a matter for
lamentt that be could not divine his son's
thottghts.
Well,my new dissipation is, that we
should all go to the theatre to-night.''
"The theatre ! What theatre ?"
Haven't you heard ?'There is a great
moral (dratna to be given at Young Men's
Hall to-night.  And as it's Saturday nih r,
and we don't often get a chance to go to the
theatre here in IIarlynburg, I move we all
go. Shouldn't you like to go, mother.?''
" Yes, dear, very-tmuch;" answered Mtrs.
Gentry ; ''that is, if your father will go.''
" Go !  es, inleed ! It's only three blocks
ofl. I can      ttldislthat, e-ay ('nought.
Ave are all such stay-at-homue blies that it
will do us good to go out. And besides,
Will, we tntmt have sotme public spirit, you
know-we mr-St encourage home institutions
-and help to establish the drama in Iarlyn-
burg. There's a convincing argument--not
that argument is needed. I am old enough
to obey orders, ntd this rascal here is my
superior officer"  And the old gentleman
punched Will's ribs playfully with the end of
his crutch.

CIIA PTIER         I II.
T11? (aODDIESS-
YOUNG MEN'S IALL Stood .on the buisiest  The Ilarlynburghers considered this a very
street of the populous suburban town.     imposing structure, and all new-comers were

expected to pour forth exaggeate1 praises of
its architectttrl beauty. Here associations
held periodical meetings. Here orators ott
temperance,In temperance, t       .ta tysims ct
enc', literature, religion, itreligiom, itiefeet
setn- itid perfect nonset, were wott to dis-
c'ott'su to the assetibled t1tititd-sottte-
ti-ueS            -- eeitgre tuttltititul--itt the ctn.
ilc a v   o r t griyt  im t i tte  ueha t  t ., s  o n ti sid e .
'heteilatutawiasstomelhat of an innovation
at Yottg Mc's Ilall.  Not but that theatri-
cat ltepresentatio s  -wee  fully  nielcotte  -but
those  teatt  eal  r nprectitors  whose  part  in
life's setio-comcdy was cast in such untire-
munerative etricts as this, xw ece generally
too pover). ttie'lctn to permit of' rent-pavitg
andlSittulli stern ece-sittes of the show
world. Jugglers, gytumtnats, barrel organists,
m eecunious mIionkeys, nom1adie hlarpists, and
the like disciples of artistic itineratie'y, were
tle chief atmiusetncits of the place.  A r-
gularly iotel  'atma, with  scenes, and(
actors, atd above al aian alience, was alto-
gethe'r a tosel aflai.
The present hi-triome unillprcemario tempo-
rarily enthroned lat te hall w as evidently a
esot ilf euotrceS.  Whatever situs of' co-
m lsso  r       .'t1e li at his door and that of
YountgXll's Hll, of i nissitton the ust surely
have een fully ticsltittl. The principal c i
trance was huttn with flaming hndhlills, full
of high-soundini annuoutceiien ts. ellcideS
lie, there were picture, h'longing to the
rudest sip-cies of thait rude school of art
known as " Colored Phol tography." Oi(ne of
tiesi' pictures represented a very fat man,
-mthiluetr a vet y fat uIotan, tlan a tlthit'd a very
thin little girl. Iliut the triumph lof' the hour
was a lut-trip of canvas, sttpeindld across
tie street on wlieh was painted mt large let
ter:-evidetitly by an amltur-these words
" (''NT T II t T DA' 1(1 St W IlOSE L)OW l
VIEw - It1t 1x 'T'tt' )t liNt) No WOf'TIEYk
ACFIION lON I.
O ''TAKE' '1i'.s: W ti  tNT) C'oN5tlA
'I'ON,
AN) '1COM: TO 'it:i' Goo ) :it. B(S GLE
TH;ORPES GEA.T MOIL \L EXIH1IIuTION
ENTRANCE ONLY      CENTS.
Ott this Saturday evening, when the Gentr'
family approaclied theI hill, they observcid
standing on the threshold of the street-en

trance, a portly gentletmai of a most gool
natured and happy aspect, who kept tp a
continual stream of words-tnot in the lu-l
voice of an auctioneer or a learned pig orator,
but in a quiet conversational totte, who
every accent was oleaginous with good feeling
andt~ cordial greeting.
" Welcotte, wse lcottte !" he observed i a
totne of the ttnost cheerfulness.  " 'at r
right itup to the head of the stairs, kind friend,
and the door-keeper will he there to intier
dooe yot to theI body of the hall, where yout
n ill see myl great moral egzib)ition, enltrance':
ontly tuVsiot 'tiie ettsn  w lore you ill s''
the good 1r. Baggletliorpe's great tmati'
curricttletin oitu lhis great mttord curtii'hun-
c-r I.ar 'eteCto Fe1(eeete atl te talettel
Mis  lieaglethorle.  W  elco e,  w'el'i  tti' l o
riglt up -tairs, u here Lm-1 'eeteete ie e(t''
will Sile upon)I you --this cegst rawdinan1.
young p    on ated nnt.ly-ixetvat', is
eamitl as tetir. Jiagglethorpe is guodi. eIt
com1te, wi lhomte ! I  n  tithe good  "l. I  gtigl-
trpe, and 1 lid you li'trtily weleonn'tG 
tigllt itt.  itl,tiy  -on,1Itete11 1 to; 'let
l1kitt at mt'.  I have neither beauty ii
l1nts, I amt ionly good.'
Durin'' fhis speech('1the Gentry family lhad
(ii at the doi   ', li' gtrtheMood t N' g
tlh(illp' tuctint tig 'WXill's illbow as anI enctoutrage-
nttt 4 hitt to continue in the lw ays of well-
doitng.
'Iiey had to di lieu1t y inl obtatitnin  at
Although close upon the hour forhn, nnn
the lwrfonn u-e, us. Inm noas nt;1ot 11n(1re lman
one tini Al.
TIhe piee to b'   i-r'f'trticl w  annonitt itit'i' 1
inl the handbill a-1'' oonw, original, atnl tI
4 ly  moral dranut ,camled Go  rgeIi  Noandl.
.  ainl it na-, fisher set, do(wn  that at the conl
chit-ion  of t"the  l((''1'" La  Petie  iM te  ",
o1)):r inla l a moud A Heg; y , entitled Clau
- ".  ,  liduring. n hich the orestl' ra wx ill play
the Natiinal Air of XYankle' Io)w'lle.
The piece n aIs a curio,ity. T he tierCe 10
faItinatin .ti/,,tittl was  i otattt by aCt
happy, lgood-natu(red a l 05)woman1, whom i1the
tLill- ttttitttiiteil as M1. Atelia nagnlethorlte
a gentle oll ouil, hto it was very eviltt w
thorougtly itctpal)l'le of harming a wiortil
y     nc les ifit lay ing diabolical plans tfor et-
,  ing gutleleiS young tetn to p1etltiot. Oi th
." other haul, the credulous and youthful /uriu


6              TIr OODE looD  I. BAGGLETJIOIPTEE.

well found a mis-representative in the person
of a dark, savage, ruffianly-looking man of
past forty, who was in that highly salubrious
state of crockery-ware known as "his cups."
" Shall we go, Willie ?" asked Mrs. Gentry,
so soon as the curtain fell.
Wait for the allegory, mother. It won't
be long, probably."
The allegory consisted of a solitary female
figure, standing alone in the centre of the
stage, dressed in the traditional costume of
goddesses, and holding in her hand a very
large and very unwieldy flag 'and staff  A
solitary female figure, with short white skirts
and flesh-colored leggings, and an il-propor-
tion t and worse-sewn liberty-cap poised un-
steadily upon her heal. She was evileintly
the original of the thmi little colored photo-
graphic girl of the doorway dhsplay, whote
form had been rounded by the maturing touch
of womanhood, until it was now little short of
a perfect model of perfect beauty; She hal
long training golden locks, which himng inii n-
tdilous waves almost to her knees, and h, 
childlike blue eyes, that looked straight ip to
the clouds of heaven, seeminglyti, frott out
their pure and liquid depths.
A stage goddess-niervols, evidently, at her
position, and the knowledge that the eyes of
all present were turned upon her; ad w io
experietced, doubtless, a great sense of relief
when thit clrtaini fell, as it did soon, on her
and the allegory.

Two streets back of the street in wlich
Young Men's Hall gracefully lifted its proud
front, and kept it lifted-two streets back,was
a third street, as different from its bustling
neighbors which lay in close proximity as
though they were further removed than Styx
from Euphrates. A street so quiet and order-
ly and deathly still, that the air which bore
on it the noises of those neighboring streets
seemed to hold its breath as it passed. A
clean street,with clean sidewalks, clean, clerk-
like men, clean, sempstress-like women, clean,
school-going children, clean houses with

"A very unpleasant spectacle," said Mrs.
Gentry.
If it was I very unpleasant spectacle, how
dil it happen that Will Gentry arose, after
the curtain had fallen, with a filmyiy mist before
his eyes, and knew nothing until lie found
himself walking vacantly along the street with
his mother on his arni
Arrived at home, lie received in silence his
father's "God bless yoi, my hboy," and his
mother's kiss, and sped up to his own apart-
ment. He sat down silently, on the side of
his spotless little bed, and meditated long.
"I left this room three hours ago," lie sail,
lifting his head at last, " a bov-  I return to
it-a man. All the cares-all the pains-of
a man who loves arc tuine. 0 mys goddess !"
lie cried, stretching out his hands-" my
-sweet, beautiful goddess, I love you, I love
That night there was an aitdded name n the
prayer which went up from    Will Gentry's
bedside - and when at last lie composed him-
self to sleep, lie dreamed that he was trant-
formed into 'a glorious antiliue-a: youthful
god of freedom; and that the beautiful godl-
dess of freedom, (formerly attached to the
great moral exhibition of the good Mr. Bag
glethiorpe,) with her white arms twinled lov
ingly about his neck, was seated on the hack
of an ioutpreath Anerieanm eagh- which was
slowly upwafting them both to paradise.

freshly-scrubbed wooden step , and, midway
of the block, a clean little church with three
trees in front of it, clean also.
Next door to the church there stood a
house which had a history.
Years ago, a gentleman doing business in
New-York, and whose position in life was
financially expressed by that ponderous ad-
jective "opulent," had bought some "house.
lots" in Ilarlynburg. For a length of time
his "house-lots" had remained without other
occupants than boys at noon-day playing at
ball, girls at sunset trolling hoops, and honje-

less nomadic animals at night seeking a spot
of shelter and of sleep.
nt there caine a change.   A house was
built on one of the lots-a fiiie house, a large
house, a suboirbailla, and the opulent gen-
tlen canseoutand lived there with his
opulent family , it they kept servants and
a carriage , and trieids visited tieii; and
altogether the sulburl) promised to become
dinnied-jately fashionable, and landholders'
were joyous at the prospect of future pros-
perit, aid positively refused to sell at former
p~riees.
Then there aiie another change.  clouds s
gathered on the sunny sky-the too -unniy
sky. llurr11 ig mtessengers went alter the
dtor - for die opulent wife of the opulent
gentle an had been taken ill, and in a shorter
space of time than you would think it p'ossi-
Ide to die in, -lie died. And the opulent
geulteuanhiusielf was down, and it was
rumored that -lie also would ,die; atnd ntix
opulent but thler bad-teumpered little gi-ls,
oI-pringof the  aoxe, uiere hastily remottixed
to sonio other llace-nio one knew exacth
where, ot they never returned to li arl i-
btr g.hill an  1 h ,the opulent genutulemtiani got
altit, and tIl pteopcle w Iho saw himii sI that
he w is a panible looking being when lhe ap-
pearedl That his skit was wrinikled, now
blue by turit", now yellow,nowy gha-tly white
and thattt inoIe id-ays, wlen the sui was
liinini brightly aiid every body else was com-
plainiing of tie1 heat,'this strange opulent gen-i
tenant would shiver and shak e as if w it d
cold. And again, when the cold wind was
blowing about the corners, taking all per
sOIls w ral ptlt wx armily, antd stamp p their feet on
the ground to keep life in thlem, this strange
opileint gentleman w ould take oil'his hat and
invite thie isid to blow on his temples, and
supplicate the snOwilakes to melt on his
burning brow aid cool it. And soon after,
the opulent gentleman went away, leaving
his house to let at a house agent's, for the
lowest of " songs ; aiid the price of land
went down to the zero of the speculator's
thermometer ; for Ilarlynburg, poor Harlyn-
burg, paria-like llarlynburg, was now known,
and truthfully known, to be infested by that
pest of pests, the fever and ague !
But all this is now completely a thing ol
the past. Valiant drainage stepped in, and

friendly sewers laughed miasma to scorn.
The hand of reform was soon at work, and
at present, lIarlynburg is as healthy as any
suburb of New-York. But somebody once
gave a highly respectable dog a had name,
and it interfered w ith every subsequent
business operation of that unfortunate canine.
And every body said there was fever and ague
in lIarlynburg, and it militated against the
house-agents, and kept rents low.
And it was well for a certain Mrs. liapp
that rents were low, as otherwise how could
she have taken the great brick house-prop
erty of the opulent gentleman--m the clean
street iieet to the church, and opened it in
rather an ostentatious manner, n\ itli a little
tin sign nailed near the hell-pull, announleing
that this was now MRS. Rari's FasIIONAiiii.
BoxtaoiNsIlot si ?
It caine to' pass, however, when, little by
little the house tilled, that the appearance ot
the guests at table was not snehi as to inspire
any one,eVen Mis. Rapp lier-elf,wili lthe n iet
that the distimietive adjective fashionale
couibIlhe altogether jist y app lied.  mhat
there w: as of fahiioii in llIIarl ibii}g had a
house to itself, and did not seek to array it
tell' unid,-r the presumoptuous tin signbolard
at the Rapplm portal.
And the good Mr. Ilagglethorpe, casting
about for a haven of rest for himself mid lis
faiivilx, deliberated for many minutes before
daring to disturb the death like quiet of all
about in the clean street, by a pull at the hell
of the great brick house. Maiiy wre t'.-hesur
nises to which this signi gave rise.  MaNiy
were the qiuetion-, selfIdenianded, to which
Mr. Bagglethorpe, in his love for truth, in-
wardly, regretfully, answered in the negative.
Was lie fashionable ? No. Ie was good
lie was known far and wide as the good Mr.
Jhagglcthorpe; but even his most devoted
partisanl had never called him " fashionable."
And, indeed, even if no other testimony were
procurable, that queer, antediluvian  coat,
those giant-like flappy trowsers, built probe
bly in some remote day when cloth was as
cheap as dirt, and a great deal cheaper than
dirt is now in New-York ; that immensely
high hat, with a brim as wide as the som.
brero of a Spanish muleteer, furnished forth
f indubitable proof of goodness, doubtless, but
of fashion-no.

I

U I1IAI1'E l tIll.
'TIlI I()Us t i I'1ui \ AISTORS.

3,
3
t
k'          ',

71IE Or L'LE r


rlGO1.BAS. Ar's NATURAL C'io.

Was Mrs. Bagglethorpe fashionable ? It
is true she often personated fashionable cha-
racters. The whole range of the drama,
from Lady Macbeth down to' Roxalana, was
open, and indeed had been penetrated by
her.  And penetrated, Mr. Bagglethorpe
thought, in a remarkably effective manner.
Therefore, in one sense of the word, she wis
fashionable.  A person who played Lady
Macbeth-a queen, in fact-must be fash-
ionable. But was that the style of fashion
which Mrs. Rapp demanded ? And would a
red cotton velvet robe, tritimed with tar-
iiishel gold lace, he the proper fashionable
costuie for Mrs. Rapp's boarding-house han-
pIclts ?
And Fifine-la petite ?  Alh! less thin
either of the others, could ite lay claim to
being a votary of the goddess of fashion, or,
indeed, of any goddess whatever, except tiat
very ill-cladone, that flag-hewrapped goddess,
wlomt she nightly pcrsoiatel at the great
moral exhibition. Little Fifine-a little, gol-
den-haired, blue-eyed baby when this poor
wandering couple had received her, with a
blessing on them and her, from the arms of
an unknown dying mother, departing this
life as cheaply as possible at a miserable
country inn, in some wretched village where
the exhibition was then-even at that remote
period-exhibiting with only qualified success.
'They had taken the child and cared for her;
and, by her own will, she had given then
her poor aid in return. Sie was beautiful
in form and feature, a model for the gods,
if the gods had been sculptors; but in  a
fashtiionalble sense, the good Mr. haggle-
thorpe felt her deficiency as uitich as liis
own.
lie had concluded, then, that there was lit-
tle o'r io isC in his applying at this forbidden
source of fashion, Mrs. Rapp's boarding-
house, when, by one of those strange acci-
dents which, in various 'forms, sometimes
govern the fate of nations themselves, the
door opened, and a clean, tidy, but poorly-,
clad woman issued forth with a basket on
her arm, which seemed to indicate is tenden-
ey toward that unfashionable but necessary
place of resort-market. Seeing the good
Mr. Bagglethorpe quite a fixture before her
house, (she had been watching him from in-
side for some minutes,) and feeling, in view

of his rather shabby raiment, a natural anxi-
ety for the safety of a coat and two hats
which hung suspended just inside her door,
she resolutely planted herself before him,
and asked peremptorily:
"What do you want?"
"I want," answered the good Mr. Baggle-
thorpe, rather astonished at her question,
but determined to answer it truthfully, " I
want a heap o' things. -In the first laceI
want a fortin, and a noo dress for Feefy;
ditto for Mis Bagglethorpe; though the lat-
tei', bei' past the years of indiscretion, don't
Leer so nuth for noo"dresses ; but the for'
mt'er, betityotntg and remarkable handsome,
though I for one never expected her to turn
out so, for sht -xvas of a thinness wonderful
to behold, andh I miight hiev exhibited her as
a lixin' skelitot, though that l ight 'i hurt'
her feelings, and she's the best girl ever
lived, thouh not fashionerble.  u t wat I
wxiht' inrust perticklerly to hey just at pre-
senit is rooms. lev you any rooms, Mis Ripi,
fer folLs not fashionable ?"'
Roon's ?" repeated the landlady, some-
what softened 1y the prospect of more lodg-
crs, "yes, I-'have a few empty, thought only'
a tew. Won't yout walk in, sir?  This way
please," conducting the good Mr. Baggle-
thorpe into a very large antd very barren
parlor. ,"'IT:wo rery fashionable ladies, the
Miss Millers, now staying at the Fifth Ave-
nue Hotel, wrote to me only yesterday for
r'oomus.  And I fully intended to write to
them to-day, and say: /)ear Miss Millers--
they are sisters, that is, /ilfsister's-same
father and two mlothers, both dead, and dress
in half-:nuriniuig nowx, liut e-ry fashionable--
yes I hat af w."
Do you require all your female borders
to have one father and two mothers in half-
uournin' i'-ry fashioinerble, Mis Rip ?" asked
the good Mr, .agglethorpe, feeling that these
wxere conditions with which Filine and Mrs.
IRagglethiorpe could scarcely comply'.
Oh I dear, nox; what ate you talking
aount ?  I mean the Miss Millers -but, it
you wish to take the rooms, I'll xvrite to
them that they can't have them.  Will you
go up and see them ?"
Very gladly, Mis Rip, very gladly. And
ant in much haste to be settled with my
family, but, es I remarked before, we are

rot fashionerble, and shall be glad to know
that that is no objection."
The rcoms--although Mr. Bagglethorpe
would have preferred their being on the
same floor--were both confortalble enough.
The reoim which was to be honored Iy the
anerliliini) of the worthy couple was situated
at he ha-k of the hou1ise, ind gave on a bal-
aOii), with   liech it eo 1tntnunicate( 1by a deep,
liN, _0petninh  iench window. And Fhiine's
nook was a tiny hall-bedroomi on an upper
floor. -      -
Does the price suit you, sir " asked Mis.
Rap, after tiameing, that important item.
It do, tatrm, it do. I am glad that it do.
But if it hadent, I should hev said so at inlt.
Ueeaue, ar' any Hotly ab tout mite, atidi they
will tell ou I pay reg'ler'. .if business is
had, I live poorer but ipay reg'ler.  My mtiotto
is be virtoosi atii pay' reg ler."
" Yes," sail Mi:. Rapp vaguely, ''I was
just goitig to ask you for your refierene('i. .I
never take aiiny liody without them."
My referencess" said Mr. Itaggletliorpe
solemnly, "is the world. Go arid tar-k the
world whi l isDa-hgglethi'Ioe wen  he;''s dtsroed,
and the world w ill answer, 'When he's dress-
ed or undretsel, sleeping' or wx akin', hie's all

the same, lie's good. Ie's virtoos and good.
Go ask the rivers and the mountains, the
lakes and-and the snakes, and they wili all
answer itt one accord, lie is good ! augle
thorpe is good.
"Any body i iarlynhurg know you
asked Mrs. iRapp, seemingly nit struck lv
the proniscuuts (iract e  of the good Mr.
llagglethoripe s reerences5.
Young Men's yi all is a perl ler' tieni
of mine. Go ars hi . hu i lie11 knew;' me well.
Hin and i' is on a spee together at te pr(
sent speakin'. Go arsk liu, and he viii lend
lv i\elaimii, ' aeglethorlpi'eeodl
"ye," said Mrs. lRap1t.  I suipp ue 'i'
just as lief pay inl advance
".1ut, Mis  1p, just. Inled, I'd l -ter.
Fo' then 1 lin feel that 1 an eat in nxeonn
vittles, Inain, and not .orn.
Wlhen liihie anid iMrs. I lagglethorp heard
that this wyas a fa'hiona l 1utardi ; o1uitti
they, too, xwetc alaritied.  Illt wlinithey
w ere  tistalled  i their ' r mi ,  a ne1  ar11 1
ta e  of a feat at the Rltipjiiat bear ,:
viewed the  til e o' guests tJ('teat ast  ,
their fears wxere gtr'eatly allayedi, mittd eta tv
thling we'nt smloothily.

ITm; GOODMl.AVAILARMED

AT the Iall, too, the prospects xwere het-
ter.  FTrom losing money they had got to
paying elpensces, and from that to having IL
nightly surplus over. Tn fact, it had hecomo
wxidxly rmotored abroad that the prettiest girl
any onte ver saw could be seen now by any
uone at Young Men's  il. lTtither', their. -
fore, the fii i-xtive every one went nii-hit
after nilit, andt, wxith the rest, Will i-.ntti y
is   tutlter, too delicate to ask of himn  a
confidence which lie did not sem di-posed to
give sit at  hmiite' in the little parlor at No.
7 IOne Thousandth street, ostensibly paying
)       nucht attrition to Mr. Gentry's'reading aloud
frnm the newspaper, but in reality wondering
what had happened to her boy. Where did
lhe go now, as soon as the hastily-dispatched

teL xxwas over?  \Whter'e diid b' 80stty  'xii y
eveunig till pat ten o'e-iiek ?  Wiy iiIlii'
not tell her, his muothiwr, trotmt xxhtupt, tilto
this  tit wt, elie  th  tevir   hia d a  s eret  ?  Th -
were the questmits which itheti lt I trhy' Lept
continually aiukmg herself, amdxxhi'l lit-i
was totally unable to answer.
'le' gos1 Ni1'. ltgghtlthurple conu11 iav'
toll her. . It was hardly possibl   ttat hi
oil' I he st consent l y on guard at the lior
of 'uting Mel"'s 11"l, grieving the  n hu
nxith   r hinsti' anti ctlordial welcoeutri,  i utout
otbservinig that, as sioon as the (diiotrs e
opened, the first tickIt boutuah:t was sillto
a handsome   young man wi)hoad conoi thre
so early as th very first night with ' rost
an elegant" lady on his arnt.

S                TIlE GOOD 1 Ili. BAr G r Lr  O


10            TI11 GOOD .MR. J.A GGLETHORPE.

"Yes, Feefy," would this good old soul say,
when safely installed at his home quarters
with his wife and his ward (as lie grandly
called her) sitting near hhn. " That there
young man, whose name deponent knoweth
not, he cane the very fust night, with most
an elegant lady hanging on to his arm, and
an aged gent beside them o1 cripples-i
mean on crutches. Aid ev'ry night sence,
there liev lie been. I know not who he is,
nor do I keer. Butt of I ketch hin throwing'
sheep's eyes at my little girl, I'll refuse hin
admittance to the egzibition."
"Cuardy," said the girl, "I have never
seen him throw any tiing at all at me, and
I'm sttre lie seems a very nice person."
"My dear, you i(b not know wat these yere
young men will do. Es a root, they air 'wick-
ed. A young ladyi pursooint' your perfe s'ion
is opm ito reimaik. Folks wonder wat on irth
she goes on to the stage fur, and serusly ad.
vise her to it )so igntermini ous a pursoot.
Et the stie time they do not olter her bread
to eat, or better to butter it withIt.  Ef she
was to say to thteto, ' Ef I leave t( stage, will
yol tale heeritv rw  they woithl aiswsier,
Nary.' There n l't a doulit they would an.
swer,  Nary.'"
" It is tl least I can do, Gi:irdv, to try and
aid you a little, after all your goodness to
me," said Fitine, nestling up close to the fit
old mian and looking fondly in his eyes; for
he was the only father she had ever known.
" My child, you are the darlingest girl that
ever lived. Idbless the day mue and the cgzi-
bition went to Pettyville, where I lost money
and had to pawn our clothes, for there I found
you. Your poor mother! How grateful she
wits to Nis Ilagglethorpe, wen Mis . said she
wul take the child. We told her wat we wuz,1
dear. Poor, strollin' players. She says, you
will be good to her, w91't you ? Says I, watt
is my name, mtarm ?  Says she, I donst know.
Says I, it is the good Mr. iagglethorpe.'
Do you know what that-that young
gentleman's name -is, Guardy ?" asked1Fifine.
"The young man that cones at might with
the remarkably fine complexion .,
"Yes, and the brown eyes," added the
young girl eagerly, "and the beautiful curly
hair."
itim as come the fust night with most an
elegant looking lady on to his arm ?"

" Ye-es." But her tone was not so buoy-
ant as before.
" I do not; nor do I wish to know. Why
should I?  Our paths air different. Let me
go soy way-him his'n. Above all, let him
leave you alone severely. lied better ! Ile
will find that you air an ernolaly."
"What is that, Guardy, dear? Nothing bad,
I hope ?" And the great blue eyes looked up
frightened.
"No, dear. It means that although you
air a goddess, you air virtoos. Most of them
goddesses wuzn't ; at least so I've licerd. Let
him keep his sheep's eyes to himself.  As I
sail afire, he'd better.
The door way opene lastily and Mrs. Bag-
'glethorpe, fat and breathless, it her head
iside.
"Why don't you come, you two .   Wel
le awfill late. Xotrindg tilt at half past seven
lptecisel1y now,11, din it yout PIggle ? It's seven
11mw, and smy black velvet hiod' is so tieht,
and it takes h11(11 a time to hooli it'."
They 'nent at once, for to le late at the
theatre was an iie\cisable tliing. They ar-
nved at the hall quite breathless. There was
no private entrance for the performers, anl
at the pulie entrance they found the hand-
some10 . tton itatn u aitinig oiuitide. He seemed
greatly eliharras-cid as they approached, l)it-
stod lsi ground, and Mr. \laggletlhorpe, as lie
passed, gave hon a scorching look, nearer an'
ger than one would have deemed fiose pudgy
old features capable of. - Mrs. iagglethorpe,
with the kntnledge that she had now only
about a quarter of an hour in which to pass
through the various stages which lav between
her present self and Quccnshiip, did not notice
hiltm, or indeed any thing whatever, except that
her good husband was a msonstrotus length of
time in scraping his feet on the lower step.
Will Gentry, gaming at the queer couple and
smiling slightly, did not at first look at Fifine
so that the girl had ample opportunity to silr-
vey hint at her ease. She felt sure this young
mian was not wicked ; that lie did not think
ill of her for standing there nightly on her
goddess-like throne to be stared at by the
gaping crowd.   Ile'knew it was necessity.
Do you not know it is necessity ? asked her
warm young heart, eagerly yearning to com-
mnune with his.
He turned his eyes on her now-those soft

brown eyes of which his mother was so proud.
She had uttered no sound ; he uttered none.
And vet her question was answered. He knew
it was Iecessity  lie understood lier and her
po ition -he respected her, he loved her ;
wouldlhe give him her love in return ? And
then and there she aid yes, and gave its, and
still there was nothing uttered.
All this oeeipied but a few seconds of time.
'he good Mr. IBagglethorpe, still frowning at

the voung mall, turned and, almost roughly,
pushed the goddess in. Unknown to line,
as she passed lby, the younmllii1:111 gently tulle-
ed her dress  ithi his hand ; and(whe1i shite
had gone and the 1oor had closed upon him,
shutting him oit in the street, Wllie lift id
his ingeri to his lips and tenderly k ssed them
at their tips where they had coie i contact
with his Peri's robe.

TI:AT1T1 iV.
'IIll I}. SW  .'i'c  I  1.I  IN I llTHE, lit'  VtEl'I.

Tlsirtnitht wuas noti tint on wideh Will
Gent t'hatl followedl the The-sptiais hoil t
lollots -i the II nt early, uoSihle in the i
l u-  t  alotste  uin ilin 'st a otste , tryml tg i l
tlace s -ftutuet on the  aitvinlill tos,  i N  h11 ith h)lti
111+ t d  Th 1  ,'I1is nas m  t the fir~t night hle
had i t u t after tith emu  at a dit i tm e, i  ati -ill, inl
~ ;, ft t  ll tu   ti tl iii  pats ()' a1, i+i'  liet', iul  tout  s  i it,
thi(0ill  u t t lt ut' lis  5t i'nt  i think  li-t ))it u'  i  -
-                 bl1;=ft  lHt()1.11,0 0  10did  110t Vi-h1
h   - t-intuttifoil lij  \\'What 'isould they
it -ntme his  h  'ugs to  i'?  Nt',  l ull ii,
hahhe wisihid the girl to set hint. I t'ihal
"t ibi-iti1uuserved aiunetar'teularli hI aont ie au it
dice t- (whicl he dared scarcelyt hop'e-,) tlictt
(wiig  a   nlilt  track ig  her at nIlut h t, i  ita  it -lo
1    le  i ns  u -a lnStree t,i snt  - itigl 1tofeelalarmtic  lii'
he Saifety'of 1her' purse---lways pre-1miln
. she had oneit(, wh ich was doubtful; and if' 6 a
/oi obrerved hun Iiiiit waS lighly probable shit
would legal-IhIs fl- o llniitg her as al tutju ti
fid  a-tctn  debitt ate imthes(  i xtrntil-.
SButto ni-ht it was diil'eet. Oh '  sto-ight
was removed a thousands years from tithu ight
which began twenty four long hours ago
To-simghit he knew Tier, and she knew hint.
Had not their eyes met-and tenderly met-at
the door of the Temple now to hint as sacred
as that which was reared by the hands of the
gods on Parnassus' Ieighit .
To-night, when the moonbeams played on
the lonely and ill-paved streets, and threw,
besides those three shadows walkmig abreast,
another, lengthened and distorted, perhaps to

atiusei the 51 as srdi1 LutLna it a lfitfid lmood,
W11 G;ntIy 11,(, n11l)unIto "
sign or conee1lJ,  m i ll) hog ut \w.11.01on holuldy,
tollowingth -t  in-it on ii,1t.
The  iti d  Mr..' ittt h rIft itthet.ter-
natutredl than \wa, 1L, w out, INwltOnte fat hand1
clidi'ih  tightly  11111 the  ptuwlse:, ubic  h ld
Ow  n ghes  ga ;1in5,  w aslaughtt;in wlya;)111, and  ,
te"lling t1"the u two nonwn  remethlingf aboul1 t on
'th   -litine lutw not uhaliit. liiir 1sar. 1
.mi     li0t' s ill-li  ,tti1-ttt  ilftn I   ""itl i-i
whn I lltin ii heIri itlwiad, ,Willelinitryblew
a  i  to  Ilr \w1hi("h1  nau hi1t y  . )1 n1\\; i11d
l  1tor 1,i 1 in  a  li1  tonl " th1 yor  1'' l i ,
null 1be down t utnl si  tou   os i'f y uiitt 't ltoo
r1tt11'  tutu  i'  a "Oinl' t    tih'  MI: o i\O'f  tat
ohi1  1 t itt (i f iu ,  tuior   b 1 t a n - , i1.(
Aut Idotelngerei, eu-it tor naluiiltti'ii
anhey aissced the faliltales nithMr. t A;1)
w'm  Mr laggthlthorpe oiwnhd thle diiisr.  ioo
t d agle tlier , ftog ed ait los-it' wi-reh
xtin ohea    ilte , asi-"r  maltlpil,
-,md4l devastated  in anl.a1:lllt.ri n anne11r dilnnll
the evening)) wearily trudged up1 the step-
but 1' ine11 lin c1red1, east another dans h' e
hind, saw again the broad-shouldered forum
swin ' ig along in its manly grace, with avr
m~oolhnamslancing over the snowy forehea
tand dallying on the faultless mouth.  And
when Mr. 'BIagglethorp~e shut the door, the
gddess, feeling as if hope and love were alko
shut ot, began to cry ; and Mr. Uagglethorpe,

Ii FIFI- E'S Fo O TSTEFS.           11


It2           TIlE GOOD Aul?. BA. GLIBtT'OJP.                          1. u(LTIIFJ[l'4IICOS

greatly distressed, took her in his arms and
carried her up-stairs, erroneously attributing
her lowness of spirits to-tight shoes.
No, it was not the first night Will Gentry
had followed them home. le had done that
every night'since-and excepting--that Iirst
urie on which he had first seen her.
But this was the first night lie had lin-
gered about the house after they had entered
it-lingered till the mnioon, Which was low
when they left the hall, had morunite(l high in
the heavens, and was pouring lown streams
of glory, silvering the three clean tree ,
c'aus:ng their bare branches to appear as it'
touched hv a fairy's wand-decoratiog the
poor, clean lhoiu'es across the unay-thxrowinig
weir I shadois over the great brick'hou:i
itself-lauhlig i derision at Mlrs. laipp'a
presrrnpt liiuous dooir nlate - inellowm og tihe
sharp a 1(1iartistic outlines of the iise
of pray r, till the defective edifice  wmiied
almost as beautiful as a Grecian fnie- paling
the flickering light brnmi  in the waking
irl' s rooirim-- ing a saving im the gas
bills of the suburban town, and kissing
Edyl(lnnilln aleep on a hianik.
lfine knew -that he was there.  A. dozen
tines -he repressed the dresiie which prompt-
ed her to go to the window and look out.
She had been too bold with this young ian;
she felt it  it was wrong to look at him
steadily--she lare(l not say lovingly---as -she
had done   to-night at the hall entramice.
What mnust he think of her
Still he stood below, gazing up at her
W ninlow.  Ie had Seen! Mrs. Bagglethorpe
m1ov iing about in a lower rooimi, and had
waited to Sec a light appear in aln-e. Ther
light alippeai-rel, and then he waited to see it
extiniguishel ; and, waiting for tlis, the hour
waxd 1elate
Willie, outside, Said  Al !Oiicome to the
window !" and Fliine, ahoi e, anlost as it'
she heard lis prayer, said decisively, (to
whom( did she speak ?) "I-will not go to
the window !"'
Anid midnight passed arnl another day
w biorn noiscs-.li.
I i- hall not go till she  comess' said
W illie, out-idc. "' I shall not look out till he
is ginie," sail lFitine, above.
And the hahy day grew older and strong-
cr, and the gre -bsard moon began to die -

and a lady in One Thousandth street, waking
suddenly from her sleep, crept rip to a room
above, and, finding the bed empty, fell on
her knees and wept, and lifting her face to
heaven, cried, ' 0   my God ! slhieltl my
boy !"
Fifino cane to the window at last.  Amiid
Iet lie tsaw wr nhe i passionately kissed his
Ihanls to her; anil what could she do, seeing
this, buot touch her ow n lips ligh tly with her
rosy fingers, and quickiv pull her- window-
curtain down? 
his soul aglow  with happiness, the young
roan liastened1 hou-.m
His mother was up, and waiting for hin.
Willie !" silie si(l, an(l her hand was
cold, like ice, as sie grasped his wartiwrist,~
what is the ieinariiig if tis ?"
"f f n hat ? 'Of toy berig out-rather-
lit ? .\ A! yio 1iaven't liitbeen axions about
tie, have toiu, mriother ini dear ? lii' so sorry !
Iliit you shouldn't worry ---o  kinowii iiyoi
sl   lhin't. I'im always all right, you kiov.
Nothing ever hmpci'iii utoi ln e.
Anl he stroveto kiss her, 1bnut r te r epudlse i
hinii, fr she was deeply worinled.' A
greatly as she had bloe:icen alariied four ii
safety, so greatly now Was ie aioundeinld ta
his has iig caused-I needless pain.
" I nve Non reniched tie a1 age," she said,
her voice   trebtlinig, as  lid  her frame,
when   younrig  iel think it manly to be
iete ard lepraved  '
"(I shioniuln't telIl nio  of it if .I hal, lie
r-1plied, angered at herl ioubting himi, anti
yit unwillirng to give her a confidence whih
would clear away her doubts.   " You have
N 'ringed in', mother-I di1 rot expect it of
you."  And turning, le left iier, for the first
time in hip life, without a gooi-night kiss.
Her ringer vanished instantly ;a great sor~
row tusged at her achling-! heart, and nearly
dranged her ito her knees. Oi !this she
oribl not hear'  IIt r hoe, her beauty - what
eve' lend come to Hirim, waes lie not her' dar-
linr still?
Willie !"-a cry if angruisih in the iiglit
and as he heard it, he shuddered, stopped.,
and sprang back into her outstretched arms.
Ilis good, good other ! Iis own sweet
mnno: her! What were new loves compared to
hers ?  What, indeed

Muclh-very much ! ~ Enough to keep him   late at breakfast, and behindhand with lis
awake for almost the remainder of that     entire day's work in the counting-room of
nrearly-gone night ; and when at last he fell  Pearson &amp; Co
ai-eep, he dreamed again of Fiiue, and was
 P CICIAT )     TE

hitinaN iHome in the ho.rse-cars late in the
afternoon, Will Gentry reviewed the situa-
tion. He could not flatter hinnself hlie was
beloved by such a beautiful creature-o he
said -but every tme he said it there was a
tinerntal contradiction of his words.  But
whether she loved him or not, one thing was
certain, he loved her, ianl he must adopt
some plani to forl her acquaintance. Younrg
arid romanitie as lie wa, lie nevertheless knew
that lie could not be hangign i about her win-
mIn x',ixrv  night at the risk of taking a
dreadful ll, and worrying his poor mother
util her very nature u as change to hitter-
SI mist make her acquaintance !     lie
,titd.

But hoxy           ,
Diplomac.y
The  (youg lilploimite had evidently ar-
raniged is plains before reaching IIar nixihurg;g
fr so soonum as lie arrived there, he soumghit the
fasihioiialble prneinets favored by the This-
liars, arid, walking up boldly to Mr-s. Rapp's
miaision, nung that worthy person's bell
istily.
S 's Mr. Bagglethorpe within l" he asked
of the clean servant.
"Yes, sir ; walk in, please. Take a seat
in the parlor. What tiarn shall I say ''
Net en' ind the na ime. Siy a gentleman
wiles to ee him."
The irl vanished. Will Gentry nervously
paced the floor.
It's extraordinary how nervous I am !'
lie muruniired. " I feel exactly as if I had
come to steal somietliing."
Mr. llaggletholrpe, who entered Iat the io-
intent, looked as if ie antlo thought the young
mn1111'i designs were of a nefarious chara-ter.
lie remembered Will, and. he thought of

itiie, and thet he thought of   ifinr  iiand
Will together ; and    then h e thoIglht he
didt t like lds thoughts.
Will took the bull by the Iuhorns-the good
Mr. Bagglethorple by the hands.  Ilis resolu
tion rose with the' ermerrgenrv.
This is-I know it i-      lie burst out,
with a gish of entithuiasni, " the good Mr.
Bagglethorpi'e
" Viry  busy just now, please,.    What
triight be your business  with me, kind sir ?"
My business is-is very important," and
Will shook the listless hand of the good1 Mn.
hiagglethorpe eiordially, and his own he.i
myo stcriously.
Andil then there was a leadil pae'.
'Well," said Mr. 1agglethorpre, with a
sly twinkle in ihis eye, " perhaps iou'l tel
inn' Nat it is somiiei timtie along toward ,li lat
ter part of next week."
' 1-iiteinde eI to ti-il you itt !
" Well, who's a hriniderirn' oirnu, iiy rash
young fr iend---who's a hilderini' on you"
Thus encouraged-----prmly errnourglh, it im-ist
be c oiessed-the young  dipilomiia In'egain
again.
I called oiln youti this afterfnon--''
Evenini' ," corrected 111r. .
 Mr. hagglethoipe, to e xpress-that is to
saiy, with a puirpose-"
A  porpoise '" repeated   the old man,
looking carefully about the room.   I don't
sce 11nporpoise.
A purpose I say, Mr. Bagglethorpe--not
a  oirpoise ; a purpose. In otheii' woniS, -
I want to gin on tihe stage."
I)ttmanrs of this Linil were freiinently
iiade to the iraniagen', geinelly by incor-
petentt par tie , and the good MIr. 1i ggle
thorpe ha cop)osedt  a   nSpeech to fit thi.
emergency, whenever and wherever it tiiouil

1  Ii. r ,1  ; r L  Tll( Ii l'I; II:lS   sr-sii ioyl .

'
t
e  Y
i


14             THE GOOD 3R. IIGGLETIORPE.

arise. This was a proper occasion for the
delivery of his speech; and he began de-
livering it accordingly, in a graceful attitude,
with the thumb of his left hand inserted in
the armhole of his waistcoat on that side,
and his other hand waving serenely in the
"It is a thankless spear of life, my aspirin',,
young friend--a thankless spear ! Genus is
rarely reco'nised. Look at Mis Bagglethorpe.
Talent goes fer naught!    Look   at Lar
Peeteete Feefeene." (Ai! thought Will, I
have looked at her until I am crazy !)  Be-
sides that, the art itself stands low. It hedn't
orter. It is a grand art. A noble callin'
As high in ev'ry way, ef not higher, than
paintin' and sculptoorin' and Iakin' photy-
graphs.  But it is not so received. The
limited intellergence of the general pubhi-~
who is, ef you will pardon the expression, a
mule-the limited intellergence of the genial
public, I repeat, has put it lower than it orter
be put. But what can I do for vou, miy young
friend Y  Did you aspire to tread] the imnie
boards at Young Men's Hall7"
t       l" !no ! No, no !" said Will quickly.
Tread the boards at Young Men's Hall, in-
deed !iHe would as soon have thought of'
walking a plank. What would his mother
say to such an act as that ?-what his father ?
-what all Iliarlynburg ?
" Then wat T' said   Mr. Bagglethorpe
sternly.
" The truth is," stammered Will, hh ishi ng
fearfully at his awkwardness in treading the
devious paths of diplomacy, " what I wished
just at present was, to-a-take a few les-
sons in elocution and-a-that sort of thin,
you know. I thought you would-that is,
might le-willing to give them   to me,
and--"
I do not act,' said Mr. Iaggletlhorpe,
interrupting, and leaning back in his chair
Imajestically, "I manage.
" Ye " returned Will, " I am aware of
that. But perhaps-that is, I thought per-
haps one of the- ladies of your f ainly, both
so talented and beautiful," (and Willie, thmik-
ing only of Fifine, laid great stress on the
last word,) " night perhaps undertake, to in-
struct me in this difficult art."
Did you?" said Mr. Bagglethorpe stern-
ly, all the more sternly because he felt his

sympathies going out very strongly toward
this good-looking young man, with his kind
honest face. "Did you  '
"Yes, sir; and believe me, sir, any re-
muneration you might name I would cheer-
fully give."  And now it was Will's turn to
lean back- majestically in his chair, uttering
this Rothsehildian speech.
" I suppose I might speak to Mis Baggle-
thorpe about it," said Mr. B. reflectively.
-  Oh! do-! Please do! Speak to them
Both! Say that I am most anxious to study
handet. I think [ could play him finely.
Where hie ru-hes on, you know, and says,
A horse ! a horse   Imy kingdom   for a
horse!
" Ihnulet don't say that nowhere," ob.-
served the mamniger'.
rell, then, somebody    does, if he
doesn't."
" You may bet on that,' conceded Mr.
Bagglethorpe.
''hen you will speak about it to the
ladies-to Mrs. Baggletlhorpe, and to your-
olIi--''
My ward ?"
Yes, sir."
"I'll see about it."
"'T'hank  you," said  Will, with hearty
gratitude i his tone.  " And when may 1
comle again?"
' To-morrow, if you like."
And the ladies will be here
They'll see atiout it."
(1i ! thank you !  ood  'venig  Mi
Batglethorpe. Indeed, indeed, I thank you
for your goodness. And Will Gentry w rung
the o1(1 man's hand until every trace of the
original ill-feeling had disappeared, and the.
warni old heart glowed to the core.
("olod-by, sir; and thank you again and
again. I will conic at this hour to-morrow."
"\Well, well," soliloquized Mr. Baggle-
thorpe, as lie stood at the window and
watched young Gentry out of sight. " It's as
ea y to see through that young fuller as
nothit'.  e take lessons in  ellereution
What lie wants is lessons in plavim' R')oo
No doubt lie thort lie hed hamboozled the
old man quite satisfac rily. I guess not, my
bloonmin' young friend ! I guess not l' But
the good Mr. Baggletlhorpe is good. le is
not the man to stand between the hap-

A x IA1PI U[PI.                               1,)
Av                               r' .  ,  .                                1,
-   pines of his feller-creatures; w'en its hon.  panes, "ef it an't honest, I'll kill von as I
est. And of it can't honest,' thundered the  would a snake, my han'some young trouba-
4    old man, shaking his fist at the iindow-  dour, for all your good-looks !'
CHAPTER VII.
TILE ('IIAItDED CIRCLE.

V  i GENTY manifested but little dramatic
talent.  In vain Mrs. Baggletliorpe enetla-
vored to instill into his mind the rudiments
of the sacred art. All to no ppt'ilose! Il-e
was cont' when lie should have been sad-
lugubrious wlien lie should have been ga'.
lie could not remember the text of' his
author-lie could not forget the fact of Fi-
fine's sitting opposite hi in lieu of an audi-
ence. It is true the goddess said she thought
he had hidii'rfiil talent; and so perhaps le
had. lut the wonders of his talent were
directed im other channels than  those of
Thalia or Melpoimete. Thte wonders of his
talent had tmanifested themselves principally
in the art by which he had obtained a fiot-
hold in the poor hiotie of the Thelspiaiis-the
charmed irele where dwelt his beautiful
go~ddess.
his foothold was firmuu now-firimer perhaps
than he lutiaginled, or hua'l at firet dart-i to
hope lie could make it.
At length the lessons were   abandoned.
MIrs , Iigletlorpe assured her pupil that lie
had better stick to the bookkeeping, fiir an
actor he would never titahe.
I  a pity, Mu. (einterv,' said the good
t oiaii coiipassionaiitely, " bit I'tm afeard you
never woutlt get   eh l  ;;respectable utility
"Wat'sl that ? asked Will.
"Why, don't son know what respectable
.             .  -  .  ,                l
utility is .  Dehiverim' messen'mies.
'lelcraphie -miessages?'' iputired Will,
with a merry twimkle i his ey.
F ~     'No, no.  ' My lord, the carriage waits, ' or
uluain, a letter.' "
Oha, iang te if I'd be a foot-boy for
any bodyl," said Will.
That's what we call respeetabl' utility,''
canmitittiel Mrs. Baggletholpe.  " less  oui
But few getsfar beyond it; and half of them

which do have into right to.  It's a most une-
countal)le thing that peple wliehl t't inl
the least fitted for it tvill rush into the per
fession itn the iiost extraordinary numbers.
Now Idon't call myself fitted for it.-"
" hut the public do-the liiihlie d, im-
meelver' interrtiited the good lMr. I aiggle
thorle admiringly.
" Yes, dear, they (1o, I confess 'i. Through
the tmoedujtin of the public press I have often
received   the intist flattering i  nottimium tls.
Still, Iy dear" conttiued the 'Jlly ol soul,
aldressiing ier husband puointedly. ' did yo
eitr 0bseve that the piper's whlilt spoke
highest inl myt1' praise was invariably theit
n here w'e not tuu Ihandhills s 'it'ulk os"th'
Inuniteelyet !'' said the good Mr. iaggle.
thtorp", with more severity iin his tone thtati
was usual with himt ; 'do you miie:m to throv
a slirti onto the hiess?  Woubl you iu it to in-
for that a otnuas could lie iuo nr1"
" li', lklggley, wIto said a nol ibot  or.
tant ?  t' tie I didn 't.  I w ait't i bi ui '
of limit it ill thiuahi I  ni-t say I ihvu:t
liked thi' mutic uam il thought l 1' vers'
foolish to gruiible at 'em so.  What I mtean
is this. Don't ''onyou r eibr' whti F\  was
pii mi' il Mulld 11'10 C  th at on of the pa-
hpers said they  wisth til' ' uild1per lll
the worthy Mis iagglethotp' that tt' , ae
was not heri oationi ; itoh the thv-u  i'eryn'\t
day after  inu had orled     me"hi-i ig llr
posters at their job printiimi-oliiee, how they
retmarket1 easually that as (Sph/ l  Mis Bag'
glethorpi' was the /oau odred of th i ho4t's
fann l "
" What a'tonishiniig iu'inconsi'tstency ' Jacl-
hated Will Gentry.
Who amongst its is not wenlial '" ituiuired
the good Mt. lagglethorpe-
" Vena1 l, (ad'yhv, " suiggestedl Fitini'.
That's what I mean, hdear," "till the old


16                    THE   GOOD 31R.
man, smoothing the girl's curls. "XWho
amongst us as disdains to look out for num-
her one ?  1 don't. Ef the public wants the
legitimate drainy, I gives it to them good-na-
tured; ef the public wants the sensational, I
gives that to them equally good-natured.
That's my policy.
If I were the public, I should want noth-
ing but allegories," said Will Gentry, looking
at Fifine, who blushed.
" Because, sir, you have poetic taste. Be-
cause, sir, you appreciate high art.  But
alas ! sir, there is few like you."
"Few   indeed !'' echoed  Mrs. Baggle-
thorpe.
"There are none !" said Filine, but in so

TnE: fun was at its height the next night
wx ien they arrived at th' sk ating-pond. Theleaf-
less braichies of' the w intry trees were hung
With Chinese lanterns ; a small brass band
was blowing away lustily at a valse iiove-
tent from  (t Buullo, while on the ice, clad
in the ctstutmet'S of all civilized  and icivil-
ized nations was asseimibled the whole skatiin'-
iadl coiimuntihty of Ilarlynburg.
") Lor !" said Mrs. Bagglethorpe, " it
looks xvonderfullike the green-room of a large
theatre, don't it, dear ?"
" I ius' say I never sor a green-room with
ice on the floor,'' said Mr. lktgglethere.
"No-nor with Chinese lanterns hung
about," remarked Fitine.
Don't youtthink it is a prtty sight ?"
asked Will Gentry of the girl.
"Well--yes." she answered    with sonic
hesitation, " rather pretty. I think any other
ptersot would enjoy it more than I.   The
truth is, it makes te wretched to see all
thtesex shabby costumes. It reminds me of
Tyself in the allegory.  How cold they must
be, too ! Just as I aitu'hien I stand on the
goddess's pedestal, and shiver."d
" Ii te to see you standing there," said
Will angrily.

BAG GL ETIIORr'i;

low a tone that no one heard her enthusiastic
comment.
" To change the subject," said Will gayly,-
for the truth is, I never could ear to have
compliments poked at me-will you go with
me to the skating carnival to-morrow night?
A sort of masked ball on the ice, you know
they say it will be a jolly afluir."
"But our moral dramy '" said Mr. Baggle-
thorpe.
"And our allegory ?" said Fify.
" Time enough to go when they are over.
I'll be waiting for you at the door after the
performance, if you'll on'y say you'll go."
They said they would go ; they all said
they would go very gladly.

r
n
c
L
a
r'
Y
t+ s
"t
\t'"
i
n      i
, := roc

-To be sure ! Ilow thoughtless of me to
keep you standing in the cold !" said Will.
Cole in there, Mrs. iagglethorpe,' leading
the way to some covered benches.  ' Wn't
you have a glass of souethitng hota
No, Mr. Gentry; but thank you ijst the
Aid Mt. Bagglethiorpe ': ins uiired Will.
"Itm :a ,teetotaler, my son," r-eliid the
good gentleinii, with a iparetal air, -' a tee-
ttal teectotaler. .
"So ai I,' said Will, " but I thought you
tigthit be chilled. I am glad yott are not."
IIe saw thiemi safely enseOnticet in a t1cornr
fthe wooden tlhut, and thet felt tree to le ote
linielt exclu-ivl cixto lFiline.
What a 1itiy hdn't -aiite !"' li  aid.
Yeci, isn't it ? 1 fancy I coniIuld t onlea.rn.
Don't think slighltingly of me,01 Mr. Geint ry, be-
caine I mn so ii'far lind iid other girls o tt'moy
in all accomplishments ant    ac'inirt-
mieti.  ltemiitbt'er what a pioort little xxit I
am1."
there r  gill-,  indeed  I ( ) !ther  g irls  can't
liiii a caile to xi."''
" 'There'sm ie holdings i hnter t i to '',"
said Feefy', latughinug.
A1 flining fenude l 'tigmeC, drsseaC  s a nisuan
witht Turlki-h1 tron ,er.4 and .a jaun1ty Cap,) lung
.froml a l mtern whviich sh-It hl, a gILeamc,1 inl
F;iline 's face, and nwas gone.
Why, that's-w ihuat-youtmay-call-it !" said
W ill, partly recognizing the tace.
tWlio ?"
" -   n eiit thiik of her l nie now. Are
your feet cld ?"
\ o," siLiine11.
Nell, hi-, I'll tell you  iwat tex cat do.
You sit down iii this cihir, ad 1I'll push in
over the ice. 1'l skate and pth you. )oi't
you set' ?  The chair is ont rmmlers, and yoil
antd I will whiz over the ice as though ie
were going to market in IHollatid.   Comiie
now.   Sit down."
Fiine seated herself in the chair, and Will,
after a last pull at his skate-straps, darted ofh
at a rapid pace.
" What fun !" cried Fifine.
By and by they paused for breath.
It a a beautiful sight !" exclaimed the
gil.   " The Costumes don't look half so
shabby now as they did at first. Perhaps it's
because I'm more in the spirit of the thing

T IL1T T VRK

Why, sir, you astonish me!" said Mr.
13agglethorpe, in an amazed tone ; "I thought
you liked allegories.''
"And so I do, but I don't like Fifine-that
IS, I don't eitain that-I don't lie FI'inie--
tut, tuit !-of course you know I don't mean
that-but I Can't bfear Fiftine's stituing there
to be start'ted at by a lot of iipulident young
puppies.''
, "I guer o/u at-c about the only toe'--" be'
gait Mri. tBagglethorttp.
"  W hy, wat are you tlk'in  about, Big.
gley '" asked Mrs. B. in muazt-iuuetnwnt, for Will
was a prime favorite with all.
"I mean to say that I gue-s Mi. Center'
is about the only onewholpays such particu-
lar attention to the allegory. Without disre-
spect to the talens of my dear Fi-efy, I must
say that the allegory is looked upon by the
general public as no great shakes."
"Then the general public is a general dunce,"
said Will, wounded at any lack of appreci.
ation shown the goddess whom he appre-
ciated so highly.
O dear ! how cold my feet ate !" said
Mrs. Bagglethorpe, stamping upon the ground
with as much energy as her e oitunpoint would
allow.

CITAPIEIt, VIII.
TIEI (AR NIVAL.

Is   ICI iE RN.                         1 7i
than I was. 0 dear ! Mr. Gentry---there's
that Turkish person again !"
The Turkish person was cutting a rose on
the ice; and when this addition to Flora's
possessions was fully completed, Ate skated
rapidly up1) to Will Gentry and held her lantern
in his face.
"lood  evening, Mr. Gentry,' said the
Turkish person, acconp:u n ing her saltitnat
wx ith a terrv laugh.
Good evetitng,' returned Will, till unt-
decided inl regard to her identity v.
"1'. don't pretend you don't know n,
said tht 'Iurkish person, again laugh iinhg, w hilt
1-ilinie looked on in strpirise. '' Thatt n ondld
he ab-urd after tlie desperate tmtanttier in hlieht
it flirted with me Christmas evening at 1ir.
'le:irson's dinttter."
SI flirttel with you ?  I  st next vou.  I
ttitrtihter   io nowt-sot are Miss IFa. t hbhit.'
- ' T e siue I ai. Ilow long I shall  re
main so,   ditn't no.itwx .  Now, dlot't loch.
aistonlished . This is 1leap-yeart, i n knowt, :ani
more thian that, we areit at a skating tarnival,
we l' lut-is are pritiligi-d to iay whx at ithi'
like ; ,itl  ai  vi   all, as  I  said  befitre,  i)tII
flirted xi ihi mii so outrageouly at .Mr. Pe:i--
in's flt  lotr dtay, that Iti warranted it
sit ing ainy thing to yoi."
littleI" Filite  sat  iii  the  skatinig -clair  ;uii
gasedil fori brtath.  low happy shlitlie hail et-i1
hut a miiiottent blere ! Sio light-hit-irted, st
exhilaratld, so gay !Ant ixnow--ntvx. She
Ildh ot to the arms of the chair and listened
aga:tin t o tiext ordinary revelatioins of t it
Turkish pt-rson.
" Yes toit give te tWine so oftn, don't xii
remember ? And insiatid-onil imy ha ing all
the truflie's oultof the honed 0turk'y,1don't you
reminemltr   And the ice-craiti, r. e( nti
-surely   1 ou iut recollect nour giving tie
the little pink Cupid on the    top of the
pedestal."
Poor F"iline ! The pink Cupid was the
strain' which broke the camel'is back. 'T'h1'
wine and the truffles, and even the hiotnid
turkey might hav been born, but the pink
Cupid was thoroughly crutsling.
With hot tears welling to h t'e e'1ts, but
with a determined eft)t to keep t bititack,
Fifine ptutit her hand and touctd the ski t
of Will's overcoat,
"Won't you please, Mr. Genttry, take mc


8                    TIIE  GOOD I.
back to Mi'. Raglethorpe ?" she asked in a
iupplicating  tone.
" () dear ime !" ijaculated the Turkish
person. " Excuse me, Mr. Gentry. I thought
you were quite alone."
The cruel girl ! The cruel flirting girl ! She
had    iseen the  young book-keeper paling
devoted attention to this pretty blue-el
little nohody, and had determined to assert
the superiority of lir own charms by bring-
ing into her retinue the handsome face aid
figure of Will Gentry.
''No, I am not alone, Miss Fastbhlle,'' said
Will, ending over Fif ine in a kind, protect,
in  manner. " I am  not alone.  Will you
he good enough to excuse me 7'
' Ohl! 1with great please. I'e imore beaux
here now tliani I know what to do with.  If,
however, you  are0 going 'to take MEili-
Miss-"'
"c Fiftine,"said Will.
" If you are going to tak  e 3Ms Miltlin back
to her frictid Mr.-Mr.- "
"Unigglethorpie."
") dear !" and the 'l'ii  ipers liniekei
(lut into a bringing Liu;h." What a funny
nae ! I nover shall te able to pronounced
that. But I was about to sa!, it V iiare
going to take little Mi-u here hack toi iher
friend, perhaps -  you'd like  to joiinour
party'."
"Exeuse me if I decline, and wish yo
good eveiin, Miss Fast belle,"0 and Will tonc '
ed isa skalting c:1p) and skated off, pusingli the
chair before him.
"Imphudent book-keepitng  clerk !" aid
Miss Fatbtelle, as the two were lost in the
crowd of skating   itasquertders.  " As if
Kate Fa thelle would stOOp1) II)1/,,, except
to ftlit with tyou for a hatf ani hlmr iv1so when
he'd iintiin- better to do(
"Miss F-itine," said Will to the  es,
we must take op for lost tiimiet noW. I shan't
stop again. Ilow extraordinary inl that young
tila to act in that nanuer ! I at by hier
i-ide at Mir. Pearson's grand dinner last month,
and that's all. I never 1eipecteid to see her
again."
"Did y-ii give her a little iced pink thing?"
ini1uired -iine anxiously.
"Oh ! the Cupid ! Well, I believe I did.
YOU sC the servant was handing ice-ereatil
about, an of course I gave hei the ibest part

B.1 1Y LETITOIPE.

of it when hke held it to lme to hielp the lady
who Sat next me."
If it had lbeeii any thing but a Cupid,"
sigled Fifine, thinking of the inferences that
eight he drawn from a gift of the naughty
little god of hearts.
" I'm not sure it was a Cupid," said Will,
ending over her from behind and skating
gracefully and swiftly on one foot while the
uthier was raised in air performing soie ballet~
dancers gyrations.  "' IoW do you know i
1 ipjidi froni--any oilier iiian-done in ice-
iy his wing," said Fifine,
" Wellithere, thiMttittl11 caphap none.  I
remembuler particularly he luud none."
" low w  it vou rieiieimb'er SO particular-
I lit-em  I tc1remember lie had his hand to
his iminutth, moi I thoughlti of little Jack
Ilorniii1r wh1to at ini a corner, and put im l 1
thimnhti, tint pulle1 m1it a pht;n1, and obieed-
ih ! n hat a iood iotyi ant I" And Will laughed
a t his own iionn.    "Now, I sholdnt
hixe thouhttit of Jacky Ilorner if lie had had
in g , -hould  I
"No, I Sup~po"e not," -aid Fifine, whio'e
equan)1ity Hadlbecoom fully relatalishted
by the Irilliancv of thi exphaition.
" What a ve-rv self-possessed young lady
lhe is! said Filine..
"  iis Ftastbeltle:?"
"Ye"."
Sl-tot 1).,:.e- ed  mShe's as hold as brass-
k hold a  tra.,s!  Aii a flirt too-and
what1'1 more, f..st.as lighltning.. That's the
-til  tmw.  I  uppiose5 sotime mcnliki e f.t
gill, but. for my part I detest them."
I lm g-lad the goddess was in her heart that
iii cite touild accuti lier of hieing fast ! And yet
- the tail felt herself a poor stupid little thing
while tthe.sell'possesed1 ; l i1fahilioaibtle ghut
ihadt stood before i ticiii and chatted with Will
(enitr v.
Which wav shall we go ?"
I think   e had better go hack to 3I-.
aii dMrs. agglethorpe. They imay le getting
tired."
And so back tthey went to the woiodheni
shed-.
3r,;. Bagglethorpe said she was so glad
they had conic, for it was time for all respect-
able people to be it bed.

-"It is all very well for a strong yoitgi
gentleman like you, Mr. Gdenitry."i sali Mt-.
Uagglethiorpe, ' to stay itp till attr iiliidiglit
satinn; but it' you was a dellate  iong girl,
you'd pirot'ly Ie moii ire keerful of youro' el.
NOW, Feefy, itt-ver were Stron, and I ami
bliiged to take te'r   precaution for her.
Shall we No, Bagglet'

Trviii  wer t' -oon at it Iotl( de i1p1.
t ood i ght, 1myt't On," -tiiMr.-I a L
thor i, t  i -out wi th   j tiiiae   'the t lni
"todi-nitoht, and mauy'youeverhe ipp)-."
"And hope yon will come 5to ;st;;us olent,
thottgh  you i-lt  dicontill t  h -
:th d.  ( 1'tt  ii., f klwintt'u herIi it  I suphMr-
ia    stia'' ir:t .
F iine linget-la  mowniitt it ii m  liway'.
"  oo-i  M- r xcii  -' tit,.\it.l'try  il."
i  Do 't cal   tI hat!t "  I  nhipetri 1(i-nt r
(ar. 111anI11( W ill1t1 on't No'Si  I shl d
O lotvetob catir iluld by wm  hrtt tii nta byt
lt  gtt1f1i.uth  m -q
"I feltwills dt tny  thing  to plef -  t ----
WVillie'.-'
i              aytim y 't   n i  a '-e  li' t t   imt li
have! Ani i sutuch b  i itut, itl el! Thii et
ti- t'mt hI tt-I\u x ti   i pli yit n  t th t lrt4'
(.f  Libertyt,  Il - -  ll  I tol t el  hm  a  I
feltxe
She  ii  im ti'1ot s -   b t
*heaui adirmati -ywitl h (-wr -o)n  ey"-e,  n'-t
full on t. I o hi i s autich   a thtdi th clk ,iti-i
(iny  -l ta -ft  hall 1,-. p!)
"' I felt as thioit n  my who le life had11 cent r'd
in yell.  That  tg u  wre  a (firstwom~n  w hlo
leul over center( 11 my heart, and ithat there tiln
would  remain  till m21d2 in2 d y. And  I'ift,
I have never changed el inee. that night--(n
cept that 1I02.0"01 tu'ore nd more."
"Love ime, Willie  ? d o oulove nwo'
Se e ld to the banisterm of the  stairs for
support. It was such a auddenl declaration '.
1Thy always-ar e.)

Ot1' they started together-this Singiul:a
square larty "-the fat old 11:1i manan tutu  In'af
(I  w oiian in front, ild tie  letndieitir xmiiioun
ian aind the -lender voumin i omian ielorty fot-
hmninig behil.

"t,  , I lt,'' itm  aiswereI vchemi intly  "I
lvut-mititi sit iiw(hi lth  I i-art  thit t'f mitimi
'io  t utn  I ont  tlt tu11 thit  I  ti-ti  tlul  Il
--'"('11  -tuttuti  ut   t  l t  -,o1 i 7itiui  iii  ii ,'
":ii l liY   i i  t i tt I misl t it t- tn   r- i
i' 111  t11, 1111iii f I hi  :t  I  t  itium it'i x  i i  t
ui   th"-.11 i i s i  i i rttl   l n-n1 ro n
h     tlm  t.)  thit  n' , wi hn  in  tt  ii y    ntuit-t
filltt -  t tliii :111 tit  i ii 7  itt uc  ii  -tirwt': lii
longiiiint toti  i tutu her  trmu  a  uti' the  bi ii- t
hit 1m11 hu'  ti-tx.tit,ium ix  i n '" lho  xi   de'1   -   it hI
1  11    - 1 It ui t 1 l utittt- t
S ine  ," i td W illie, I "I1'' uppo Io t   u1
It) om t : l wm  any  amrts  (W '(."
-. \\ hv, oh ! ntin  -  m  d 11m,  o l1, sm1v"1mu oh
1'ii  it l ( I t,   tlltt hu --i  ii- I ii  i- itiiu iuit uI- tilt.
"itt:, t, iii ounti x 1.1ly Itoe'ri-! Ii  1r'  ini
ttl'ituthx }1t )l xI ii,   l itsi t il  Au Ii- i-,1 tt  it
mant-t hats'11 h-  l tw  mune lt)  lv t ht  l w t I mi e
11:  mal i er i w, mun' 1h1lv tlus  a 1(nm1
:- t old t wii''  (mall I m i utha  -, ittu  'titti-
11.1  -train"  l a  it  ll1
'" t    jlli   e  y'ili'  '
.\h1' the  bli-fu1 l  "in ,perienco  f'  ii 1'dear
fir4-  1m11(' !- tllh,  Soonfold  jy  o Itli s  ir
aim w11itt  of  it  M the  nitt  .rl  s h-1   e-nt  it' t
,u  111'te  f  love.1's first luoi ous tt su gar phunI.
"Well, ' you(11now? ITere! I task ymw
" ' F  / r.''  ca:lle1oul(t  A q r  .I: -lth rp
f:'om1 otver 'the stor,-r:line "r)lcit's tno1e for you
It! (;)1m1e111up l-st r."

(II  \1' 1     '   I.
I  i it  ti'i it t1:t

LA

ASA 17-Y(-

It,

,
,6
}
Y
b
tl


OUT LATE AGA~d LY.              1

20            TiHE' GOOD .fR. BAGGLETHORPE.

Was it not like the scene in Romeo and
Juliet?  The old nurse at the head of the
stairs, and Romeo below with'his skates slung
over his shoulder, and Juliet with her beauti-
fl eyes bashfully bent down and shaded by
the small rim of her jockey hat !
"Well, you won't tell me," said Will, '" and
I must go. I see quite well how it is."
" How is it ?" she asked.
"'You don't care for me, and you don't
like to hurt my feelings by telling me so."
Willie, I-I-" staimimered Filine.
What, swecetlieart ? '1' what, Fify?'"
1 (b love you so 'uive," and then cane
the hot tears which she had kept restrained
all the evening, but which would flow now.
'' Dear little Fify !" he iurimured, in a low
voice. "You have made mue so happy by
this."
" You don't think I am immodest to tell
you so" she asked, blushing.
Iminmiodest ?" he replied indignantly. " Not
a bit of it. Immodest, indeed!"
Somehow, in his enldeavor to Iprove ti her
that lie did not think her iinnid-st, the
jockey hat fell to the floor, and the -waving
ringlets of 'the sun-tinged hair streamed over
the collar of Willie's gray overcoat.
" How much do you love miie ' lie asked.
A lucid question, this. Very popular with
infancy.
''Oh ! more than I can tell."
Not the proper answer by any means.
" Three bushelss,' is the orthodox reply.
"o miucl," she continued, in so Imw a voice
that Will was obliged to bend down his check,
till it almost touched her cherry lips, to catch
her words--" so much, that to-night when
that young lady skated up to us-the Turkish
one, you knon--and said you had flirted with
her at Mr. Pearson's dinner, I could scarcely
keep from crying. And 0 Willie! when
she said you had given her a pink Cupid-I
thought-my--heart-would-break !"'
Confound her !" said Willie indignantly.
" Come, don't erv, Fify, don't ! You know I
never can love any onebut you !"
" Truly ?"
"Truly " said Willie, touching her cheek
with his lips. But she was scared at this, and
moved away from him as though she were
afraid. She need not have been afraid of
Willie Gentry. The boy was as innocent as

herself, and the love which burned in both
their hearts was as pure as any earthly pas-
sion can be.
Will you always be true to nie ?" asked
lie.
" Always.'
"And always love me
" Always-always."   And again the bright
locks streamed over the gray overcoat. 'Tlic
were both too happy for words.
Voice from up-stairs
'iTie nurse agam.
"ood-iiigit, darling ! said Willie.
"c Good-night!"
Pirtig nx1as sweet sorrow. They muiighit
have said good-night until -thn moi row, but
the nurse would not let them. She 'called
"c I'/ ne !
" Good-night, sweet love."
food-niighlt, dear Willie."
Did Romeo kiss Juliet?     1'erhaps not.
ut Will ( entry did not trouble htimIself about
precedent at that iioiienit of parting.
Out in the street again, lie  alked over the
crisp snow with the proud air of a victorious
sovereign. Oh ! how happy Ie was! I.Iow
dearly, devotedly lie loved her!  is 1eauti~
fuil goddess! lie never could love another
woman, lie said to himsel; never.  le would
love her, and be true to her, man 1 -hie shulit tl
be his owna darling--his 0n eet, sweet little
baby -wife.
Yes, lie would marry her at once. To~
morrow or the next day, peraliills--or the
next, iontli. le would limr herI as soon
as possihle. Hm  happy he was
le was not well-oi' yet, triue. But lie had
his salary, and one more 1ersoi makes no
difl'erence in a hounseliold, (a sweet and popu-
lar lovers' error,) and ie would take his wife
to live with his father antd moth er, and they
xvould love her as they( lid him. How coult
they help loving icie ! His beautiful goddes!
Ilis sweet little Fifine !
Perhaps he was reckoning without his host
Who knows ?   But his own reckoning made
him happy, and the host's reckoning had not
yet been presented.
Reckoning thus, lie walked lightly along
over the snow, with his hands in his pockets
and his shoulders thrown back, as was his

wont, and the skate-steels jingling together  gayly-whistled and walked happier than an
with a merry sound which reverberated on    emperor, for in his heart the bliss of first love
the still night air. As he walked, lie whistled was swelling.
T R C I  WAElTIL X.
THE, l- RECK ON I N V1"11 1111: iI E I l'.

IE put his key in the night-latch of the
door of the house it No. 17 One Thousandtlh
street, and entered softly.   le mist not
wake his mother.
lut to-iight, a - on one ot'ccas'ion before,
his lrecaut:ons were needless.  As h passed
the parlor door,I le saw that 1both hi aIrenlts
were sill up, and     looking  nervous and
anxious.  his father called limt im.
"Willie,'- said Mr. Gentriy, " xou ar' out
late again to-might."
"Yes, father," replied the 1ov, "f-I-"
lie had iinteinde    tell theIm all in the
morning.  Hi slove- It;his projects-hi hopes,
-all this lie' ha iicturetd hiiiimclf '  o -m
fessing, with some lushes, ptrhaps, buott with
a liptly heart n ver-theless, when the three
should sit tog-thite the ntxt morning at the
cheerful breaktst-talde. hlow was it that
now, only a few hours earlier thai le heLd
anticipated making his love-avowal, the first
words of it faltered on his lips, and li found
h1imst-lf bllushimig and stannneriig as if' that
love of wiithi in reality heit xau so proud,
were a guilty teeling forever to be iCon-
cealed?
The truth was, le had not exiectetd thi-i
meeting. le did not think that whn- lie nwt
his parents, they u would he sithug togi-tiher in
solemnii silence, with every evidentue of dis-
tress, if' inot anige', depicted on their cotnte- .
"  es mother," hite -o itned, after Ita  i-
ute's a   tarth luste, "c I wn -it to the -hatin-
oll and - 
"Williet!'' -aid ili-i father, "is useless to
ievaricate. }-or tsine tilme past ouri mother
and myself have observed the marlel change
in y o misconduct, and 4have be-tn deliyt dis-
tressed by it. Your mother is fairly wasting
away through the sorrow which your indlif'er-

eee and ileglett almve catlsed i her.  For th
first time in your life tom have withht-l x iour
coifidenet' from mis."
Never id I think," sai Mirs. Gentrx hit
toly, " that the day w oull evert cotiex nli
myii nlyhx child xxnoulhd treat t' as though I
wxerxe1 miimore to i1im thani a strmange-r."
O miuother' - Said Willie, wx ith11i- otl alr
of  irrei-itiilt' suxtettmts  appiu1roaclunaim  -l'r
and polling his :arin11about her wainl. "l low
..,,
1    t r  w1ro'ig meil'
She waitts pottiu tlt-.es urltihet touch nid
-imec tth of the situ -hit' htiled so th   lx   I i
words bir-oughut tis to her i-yes, and whln
- lit hilrw himi to lit trtast antI smilteth, ' ilit-'-
oturagiit' Wais itotrtdh; and li liie  that hi-
mihit mw hivule' his scr-t.
Ishoulhirae told 1Iou hloig ag" ai,''diI hte,
i but somii-ow-well, I couldn't.  iuut I thde
termuinil to ttll vim uitoim-morrow at ireiahkfist,
heteause sometthings h apspeialils-int  to-nmight
whith-wxhitch hua ' Ihppm-i tettforti.''
"'Well, lar'.-  sail hi., iimother', eour
iigiing a moire exted'iitlid conm fiientet.
" 'ill, imtothi'e," said li- siplilx tmtly swtt-
rI am ml lot'(."
"lIn love!" ew1,iinwd'tshe.
Silly 1m itmnaum ! lholh 4( hit' inott fortmi-ten th:
wouhl happen ?     wItIVas oliy xn onderful it hai
not huappe-nt 1e-ftrt.
" Inilov \illi- '"
"Yes':, father."
'Iit'thtdtclaration si-medt to have fallen like
a pall  n their spii s.  A nd poriW ill had
iuiuagmdti thex nuldt mcixe' twitxxth acehuimia-
tions of tlelihit ! I   utow was he to kinow that
there is a parental itolatry w which regards all
loti, even this other so difhi-renmt from ithir'
twn, ;with jialouisy and distrust ? How tdiv it'
that his fathicr andl miiother were cast in this
selfish loxiigi mould ?


V4

22                    THE' GOOD nMR.
" And what is to be the upshot of this love,
Willie ?" inquired his mother.
" The upshot,mother? Marriage,of course."
" Oh ! of course," said MI's. Gentry, moving
away from her son. " Marriage ! Upon my
word, at what age will children marry next ."
" I am past twenty, mother," urged the boy.
You are in no position to marry yet,
Willie," said his father; "your salary is too
small."
"It would be if the lady were a different
sort of person. But O father! she is so
good, and so modest, and content with so lit-
tie, I'm sure you would love her dearly if you
knew her."
"Who is she?'
"Yes, by the Way," echoed Mrs. Gentry,
who is she ?"
" Whv, you've seen her once. Oshite's so
pretty and so good ! Dear other, you can't
help loving her OWhen vou know her.
" Who is she, I ask !"
" Why, she is that beautiful creature we
saw at Young Men's llall. You know the
oe who stood on the pedestal-the Gsoldilss
of Iiicrty."
" An actress!'"
A Ihiallet-d:meer !"
lint, mother-"
" Don't attempt to justiftv her, Willie ! I
won't listen to it. I tell you you shall m/
marry her. Alh ! I dare Lay nw you w ill tell
me you are your own master, and w ill do as
you like.  c Very well! I suppose a itotlers
broken heart goes for nothing."  Anid 3r-.
Gentry burst into tears.
" Dear, dear mother,'' said Willie, kistsing
her over and over again, "don't take on so-
don't-don't, for iny sake."
Why should I do any thing more for your
sake ? This is what has kept you away front
me-playing the gallaitt at the feet of a co-
quette-an actress."
" Mother," said Will in a low, angry voice,
4 you mustn't cast a slur on her on account
of her profession. It's as good and honora-
ble a calling as any other, if it's only well and
honorably followed."
" And I suppose this young miss is highly
honorable ?"
" Yes, site is ; and if any man dares to say
she is not, I-I'll knock him down for it."
"Come, Willie." said his father, "let's

PAcaj'LLTiIo1 P.

have no more words abont it. Have you
made up your mind to marry this person ?"
" I have, father."-
" Then you must choose between her love
and mine," said Mrs. Gentry, rising to leave
the room.
"Won't you kiss me good-night, mother ?"
asked the boy tenderly.
Keep your kisses," she answered, " for
-where, I dtare saye, they are to be had cheap
enougih-on the blips of that girl.''
Poor little Fifiie ! To think that sie should
hie accused of givin her kisses cheap! She,
off whose fre- young lips Willie's ow t11had
bruslhed the first dew.
After his mother was gone, Willie sat on
the sofa anmd 1 iiehed his face in his hands.
" This is a sad busine s," sdil tie father.
"Father, mother is cruel to ime. She has
tio ight spoken ill of the dearest girl that
ever lived. My blood boiled while she was
doing.so. If it had been any one but iy own
mother 1-0 father, father ! how can m  y
ittother he seo cruel ?  And now  it was
W\illie's turn to break down, and cob.
ili e is your mother, remember, Will,"
said Mr. (Gentry gravely ; " and such a good
imiotler she has beeni to you-so loving-so
devote" .
"I know it," said Willie, soling.
It would be a sal thing for nme to see a
breaking up1 in our little household, where we
have all h    'en so happy.' 'lhre were tears
im the eyes of the elder man now.
" I ti 't anticipate for a moment any
breaking up or divisioni" said Willie. raisin
his head. " I thought we could all live here
together happily and comfortably."
".It appears it can not be."
" 0 father what am I to do ?"
'Willie, your first duty is to your mother.
Think of her."
" But 0 father 1" said the boy, grasping
his father's hand, "I love my little girl so
tiearly "
Have you asked her to marry you yet ?"
No ; but I have asked her to give me her
love, and she has given it."
" Well, then, my~ boy, I think you had bet-
ter wait a bit before asking her to marry you.
You see, my child, it is such a serious obliga-
tion-marriage, I mean. Wait a bit, and test
yourself. See whether this is true love, or

0
4
-, jrr
f _
si
E, .
t1
L '
r
t     '-
t    i
4
k=
F-' i
'V
: , ,
a 3i
s'
=1
';
r ' ,s
;
_r
3
3   '
' 1
j
_{
3y'
iyg
h
t
-/

oily its semblance.  Give yourself and her
a fair trial for alength of time-say two
rears."
Those wretched " two years."   They are
invariably proposed to lovers, who almost in-
variably decline themo.
" It would be the best thing you could
possibly do itt 'every way, Willie,' continued
the father.  " By that thime, I do not doubt
you w itill have a largest' income than you hive
just at present.  Very likely, too, bv that
time, if your mother sees your heart is still
fixed on the girl, all ier scruples and prju-
.dices will vanish, and w e shall be the hll v
and united faitily vni hoped to CC ui1-x
Think of my infirmities. 'intik how, at anl
age w hen the generality of' nen are still atle
to battle and do for thiemtiselves, I tai toligd
to sit down quietly and reci e home ainil
sustenance from  your hatndls-oi, scarcely
more than a boy.   What will beco e of tt,
if you leave us, God onlyit knis.'. The itrifles
I earn with my little tinikeriingin lt' m-
gory would hardly huy our salt.  Willie, I

TILE     ANGItY     E-llA.

EARLY next morning a letter was left at,
Mrs. Rtapp's door for Filine. Poor Will, uil:
able to sleoep, had lwr itteni it the nlight 1 e-
on~ttonplac~e but inevitale odailv du1ty
required that l  toull ut ifneglect fis ent-
pltyer's work, even to hoil an interview with
ifiuo~e in the mitornin -g so lie left the ltt 
and at seven o'clock was in thlLii' hors'.ear
on his way to Pearson &amp; t' '.i     '
Mrs. Iiapp  t delivered th  letter to F   inn,
who raised it ho iher hils as sioon as ishe nia
quit e alone. Dear \\illie !\\as it not god
of him to write to her so soon ?
Asking this tjuestion of nobody but Ier-
self; of course the answer was a very enthu-
siastic " Yes, indeed ! "
And then she read the letter-
My oWN Dans~t FiiNu:-
I have something very sad to say, and so
I hope you a il l prepare yourself for it. I

ai iot1t uuith tf a htlft oi iai'. Ift'am'Id ue,
iutc("t l1 im wute rii t'lv. i ' ta r  \t'  t lt  Iiis t i'o
-hryyu    f((115   otlnritnlI nemt
nlot motnedliatel y. The (caSe sitam 3 111 do'a
linkg--I aitmnot vy w 'I tel  fI' yet, and I have
moi/re on11 my thoulders 1than1younig Inwn of
iny ie genealy have ; and when I marry
yi, I ati to feel it I cnut give you at least
a iititf''j he ii' 11it (t liga~nta t oiltiwhtih
you sit richly dt'"serve. And how long i i to
fight along only ont a iutnl salary I tltt't
w       u and I lutve promtisedIl myt' mother
faitd"u y unhat I .will  ot, martiry tundet' two
years.  Ant  0 muty beautiful, belovel lify!
if I were selfi-h, I wouhl take advantage otf'
the iiteresta Iwhic (it makes mite so happy to
titk (if it) itave awakened itt your heart,
nil should heg vout to give me   tour vow
that you would be mtinue at the nd (of that

1S 11TH1 HIS .13o1.
entreat you to consider your parents-the
debt of gratitude you owe your mother espe-
ciall --and set her ind at rest at once.
Conme, my boy, promise me you will not ask
this young ladt y to marry  u for tw  yeats.
If' you reft s, I shlthi ikyot. te afraid t'
girl will not Ite constant to  a aoti u
Shelt wit b    constant to t    -n('ritd
W illie, starting   tip  tit laslitg  eve's.  'It'
will io constat tome, and I shall1it con-
stant to li o-t' -t-o vear or twent-. I   t'
the promise, father
"What's my b1raveLy!Nog~i1an
tt11 yourt mother of your n1ole reslh('.
lie wemit tilt to lii' romnt, diitl tlit i:a
faIth er  ha  I  1id  1 iti. 11t tlte  h tle
hin and kissed hit lt iuiy  -ian lienut-y
-ctparated for the til it Mir (.Gentry was
hlpjtitr ttam ishe had b'en f'r many mcobs
past, atd, sing her happy , 1er liistand
w as htapty (t.
Neither knew how deeply, mllthe hearllt (
the sitnt there lovedIw so ell, the iron tal ,
tred, thrust by their ottnt Itatils-

i


24                    THE    GOOD AIR. .
time; but then I know, with your beauty and
sweetness, you stand a chance of making, in
a worldly point of view, a far better match.
Why, to-morrow or the next day, some man
with a fine fortune might come along and
ask you to marry him, and then how should
I feel, knowing that your guardians would
think that I had stood in the way of your
advancement-in the way of your advance-
ment Fifine-whlen I would be willing to
sacrifice my life for that very advancement
which I might stand in the way of!
" If you will let me, I will still conic to see
you, but you must not let me interfere with
xour prospects. Let us be friends-dcear,
(lear friends, and it, when the two years are
past, you are still free, why then, dearc,
you will let tme enter the lists for your hand,
will you not ?  But if, in the mean tiue, you
see any one you like, and lie is a man wor-
thy of you, and can give you the wealth
which, if I had it, should be lavished at your
feet, why, then, Fify, [ suppose I mui-t bear
oy faite, and go through the rest of iiiy life
with a hrken heart.
" Dearest, toy eyes are full of tears, and,
i ! I do so love on ! Bit I will not he self-
i-. You will not send ue quite away fromti
your sweet presence, will you  You will let
tile hear your darling voice, often again, w ill
youi inot? though I dare not hope to hear
it as once I did (shall I ever forget it  ) inac-
eents of love.
I will come to your house this evening
as usual. Then I shall know niv fate. I
shall read it in your eyes. If you have any
piiy iii ourh earth, you will not keep me
away from  you altogether. Only a word oc-
caniually-only a look, if a, word is too
much-Will make the happiness-the only
jov of your almost heart-broken
" Wi    tiu-Gx~I,:."
She dropped the letter from her banda,
and put them ii before her eves to catch
the flood of bitter tears which feel upon her
cheeks ! Poor Will was right ux hen he said
lie did not knoow how to colpose a letter
Ile had succeeded very ill im this.
What did lie mean ?  I)id lie love her or
did lie not ?  )id lie want to marry her, or
did lie not ? Was she to wait two years fot
hun, or to marry some my tliical maxn with
" fine for'tun~e " to-morrow ?2

7ITr.,    4y/-        -- r -~T  r _-

BAG GLETHORPE.

One thing was painfully clear in the letter,'
and it was the only thing that was clear,
IIe seemed to wish her to understand that
she must not love him any longer-must riot
play Juliet to his Romeo on any future oc-
casion, because henceforth they were to be
" friends" only, " dear, lear friends" and
nothing more.
Friends! Fudge ! Could she be nothing
more than a friend to him-the first man
who had ever stirred her heart to love? No ,
he asked the impossible. She would see him
tic iore.
But could she stand so severe a. test as
this? Could she run the chance of meeting
him in the streets, and have courage enough
to turn her head away from himx  and shun
him?
She felt like a child standing on the rocky
shore of an angry sea-a sudden gust of
wind might sweep her over to be lost. She
wasp not iimuch more than a child; but in
somie cireum-stances ani instant of time suif-
fiees to fully mature such childhood as hers.
She grew very eahen now; the tears were
dry on her cheeks, and her whole bearing
was dignilied and composed. With a steady
step, she went down-stairs and opened the
door of her guardian's room.
Mr. Ihagglethuorpe was glancing through a
volume of Shakespeare-his favorite after-
breakfast recreation. It " toned hii up," he
said. The girl walked up to the old man,
andi tlaid hx'er hand in his.
My dear," he said, looking at her pale
face wxeithi surprise. " What is the matter ?"
Only this, Guardy," she answered, "I
want to go away."
lie gazed at her over his spectacles with
blank astonishment, and she repeated the
words.
I want to go away.'
"Away ? Away from where?     Surely not
a-away from mei 1"
She threw her arms about his neck and
. kissed him fondly.
"Oh ! no," she exclaimed  not from you
--ih ! no. I want to go away from   this
place ; miles away from it ! I want to be
somewhere where  I shall never lay eyes on
r  hin agaix.
" On who, child 2"
" On Willie Gentry," she answered, crying

"What has happened ?" asked the good
Mr. Bagglethorpe, with blazing eyes.
Guardy, I should have told you long ago,
but I scarcely knew it myself until now ; and
that is, I-that I love him so dearly-so
fondly, and lie-he-"
He ?' asked the old man fiercely, and
pressing her slight little figure closely in his
arms. ''lIe what ?"
Ile loves me too, dearly," she answered.
But he don't want to marry tire--"
"nWI? 2"
'o.  lie wants me to be his dear friend
only-''
Damn   him ! I'll kill him !" shouted
the good Mr. Bagglethorpe, dealing a blow on
the table which might almost have broken all
our of its legs at once.
Oh! no, no, Guardy--no, Guardy---don't
Don't say such terrible words !Im mex-
plaminiig it all wrong.  You shall read his
letter, and I will tell you all that has ever
happened between us. There is no harm
done, Guardy--not the least in the world !"
She laid her hand on her heart and sighed,
and after they had read the letter, began her
story---her simple little story of love-adora-
tion-idolatry--lavislied-upon an object, recip-
rocated by an object.  It was the A B C
of love. Like all primers, it had been easy
enough at first, and pleasant study; but then
that "hard word " in three syllables, Miu iii
Aos: had con ; and very hard it was.
The two old people listened to her ;ond
listening, their hearts warmed. Not alone to
her and to the boy on whom she poured such
lavish and wild encomium, but to each other.
They too had loved thus ; yes, and thus, spite
of age, ad-ersi tv, sorrow, suffering, and pain,
thus, thank God, the two old hearts loved each
other still.
" And so I thought I had better come to
you and tell you. I come to you in this as I
have come to you for years, moy more than
father and mother. I had such. a dreadful
moment of temptation. I felt that I must
rush away to him and fly from yoi-you who
have been all im all to me. And, dear Guardy,
I am  young yet, and experienced in the
ways of the world ; but I know that I lov,-
him and that lhe loves me."
There was a moment of silence, and first

uviUti'1  (RIOS, .                     25
one then the other kissed the girl tenderly.
She sobbed as though her heart would break.
" I hate myself. I do," she said. "1 am
wronging you in loving him so much. And
I am going to try to contlter it."
You cani not, dear," said Mr. Bagglethorpe
gravely.  "You can not conquer it. Love is
yoosially lictered as a little boy without an
clothess on, much less steel armor-hut he's a
tough one to deal with--tougher'n any other
of the creeters of mytholergy, to my notion.
Ef I hied hed the making oni him, 1 should hev
peitered him a six-looter withi a vizier draw red
down over his face, and a double-edge scored
iii his hiamnd. You ('al't co11quer him, Feefly."
" What shall I do, Guardyl x-"
"You can't do  anv thin', you pore leetle
creatur.' 'I'hiis is a (mitirgency fOr the good
Mr. lagglethorpe to rise dkal to.  I shall
take this matter in miy own hands."
 Don't you go doiin' any thin' rash, Bag-
gley," said Mrs. Bagglithorpe.
tImmiceelyer,'' Was the dignified reply,
fear not. I shall hollur il on th' troubled
waters." And he gathered Filtine to his heart
in a tender embrace.
 OC uardxiy ! ott a're sogood !
".s I ndiherstatnd this uifortnit comuplii;a-
tiol"irslned Mx'. Ikagglethior-pe, a mlinuuut e
later, "the sui anuthb,( distance of the diflihkiltyx
is that our'est im xablhe young friend, Mr. Wil.
liami Gcutexry,has parrentswhoum it is neceary
be should support, onto a limited sal. What
Ins sal is, I do iut kxnox ner do I cnre. In
this state of aflfirs, I shall find it luy duty to
call on the (Gmitetry fai'ly this cvetiin', and
make a speech to 'em."
S A speech, Baggley?
"1A -sp(e(h, hIuniielyer--I shall make a
speech to 'emu, which will dror tears from
their eyes, and-and    change their views
xmuateerully. And as the time fir reeiatio
is himuited, I shall now go down to Young
Men's lHall andl  gin private rehur-als fo'
the speech aforesaid. S(o good-mornin', Imi-
ieelyer--ood- h F, eefy. Keep up a god
heart, tmy dear, and never  think youx can
conquer love. He whipped me and Mrs. I.
Years ago, and lie hues kep uxs under tver
setce."
With this lie iwent awa-.


1l.

C)

TttoT evening, as the Gentry family sat at
tea, the brawny Ellen was summoned to the
door by the active ringing of the bell there-
of.  And coming back antntouncedt that,
"Sure, 'tn, the ;good Mistlier Baggiltharp,'tt,
an' ie's in the pairlor a-nwaitin'."
" Nay, that is an error, my innercent and
guileless Bridget," remarked Mr. Baggle-
thorpe, entering the dining-room, with his hat
in his hand, and bowing low.
Will gentry spran to his feet, napkin in
htatnd, tossed between the conflictiig emotions
of astonislunent at this apparition and a wild
desire to offer it a chair.
Mr. Bagglethorpe took his hat affectionately
to his breast, and lunched at once into his
speech.
"i tr. and Mrs. Genterv-sir and madam----
set doxwn, 'William, 1 do not wiht to set
down myself--my dooty is with your parents,
umy son.  I am here, my friends-if you will
permit the term-as a unworthy ambassador
from the court of love. But excuse mtc.  I
ramble.  The pint is this. You Itv ben in-
formed that your est little son has contracted
a attachment so to speak, for the young lady
who is known to the public by the title of Lar
Peetette }'efeene.  Es I tinderstadtl, this
yere attachment is not es agreeable to you es
it is to the young people.  Quite lateral, Mr.
and Mrs. Gentery.   This young man, feeling'
that his fast ilooty is to his parrensts, has
nobly, manly, self-sacrificin'ly, writ a letter to
my ward, station' the circumstances, and asking'
for time---askin' fir two years of time.  I tin
quite es willing , sir and nadlai, to grant that
time, es your honerbhle selves. The young
iatn's sal is tit seeh as to warrant him in
takin' a wife, while his parents liev a -laim
which he, in his filyul beauty and loveliness,
reco'nizes. What it lies cost his brave young
heart to take this step, you may not know,
but you can no doubt realize if you make a
proper effort so to do. Onet you was yount
Mr., and Mrs. Gentery.-oiet you also was a

suitor at the court of love, Mr. Gentery--as
I was, as Mrs. B. was, as we all was.   The
feelix' which anerimates the bosom  of your
noble and well-edicated son, is the same feel-
in' that we too hey felt.  It is a feeling' in the
presence of which no honerble man kan say,
I ant better ner thou. But I will not ratnble.
The pint is this. Feefeene is as dear to mIle, Mr-
and Mrs. Genterv, is the apple of iy eve. I
tookt- her forum her dxiin' other's ars-I
promnist to be a father to her.  The leetle
creature' hes crcp itto iy heart of hearts, and
it will cost ie a pang to part xx it lher.  But
I shell do my dooty.
The good Mr. Bagglethorpe's eyes were
filled with tears, and lie no longer looked at
his tudieice, but kipt his gaze steadily fixed
upon the Ceihin' overhead, till he had con-
eltudedl his speech.
"  It m   xltut what may be called a mta iof
prol'ty.  I at a roamer up and down the
earth, in the show bu 'iess, xxlilch is ever
prtetaoutis and the receipts variable.  Four
Year ago I was flush. I put into bank, that
year, the sum of five hundred dollars, es a
sinkini' fund for the good of Lar Peeteete
Feefeene.   Thar it lies laid  ever sence,
draxwrin' interest.  I hed long determined to
give Feefcene a edication, feclin' the lack of
it myself; but I loved the leetle girl so well
that it made my old heart ache to think of
parting' from her.  She was yooseful to tile in
iy egziition. Es a goddess, she lits few
sooperiors and fewer ekals.  I clung to her,
ant postponed the edictatin' onher.  The time
ies now come fer me to act.  I have resolved
to withdraxvr her from  the perfession which
she adorns, and put her into a hoardin'-
school.  But afore I do that, I Lev  a Oro-
posal to offer.  I offer to give my darlin'
treasure into your keeping .  I honer your s1On
-I honer his parents. I can trust him--I
can trust you.  Senee she was ten years old,
Feefeene les never ben out of the immejit
presence of myself er Mrs. B. We know her

711E GOOD 1111. BAL GLETJORPJJ.

TJEI)XLG.

CJIAVTER XI II.
THEEE N I).

--we know her well- She is as pure as a
rosebud. 11er heart is as unsullied as a an-
gel's. She is fit to make your son, er the
son of any man on the good Creator's foot-
stool, a wife--a levin', trusting , clinging , pure
i   and gentle wife. Take her to yortt- lcairts,
my friends--I gin her up to you.    The
-montey nov  biiank For het, is len to ranr
on, when   he  ill;and t1eatitl -e, I'
ready to pay her hou a  in this Inease for- rto
years, at the end of nhilh time o n cii toed
o. speeds to conixnec  ou thia t th  1ill
make your sonia worthy ip irdier. I C x 01ai
Inmmtan, if your hearts 1'(' pt to ie u 1
soft inluences of I   t  i, you1i llv   lix et-, ii  ii
y  part with her it wx otil I xx -iiw x out- Iw rtiyo to
pat-  nx lilier--a a itcloR tlitiea it
mine -'
it    Mr  Ji  l-tl p     -      -   -    -
-      am , tho'pe hunied lhs fa(ce mn ha
'handkerchief.
Mrs. Genttry arose nal otehrd htitti hetl ,
in silence, with teat's bniitnn iovig (tx01(from itr 
brown eyes.
?,,  cc (j  io s C hintyou,iarm !  h tiht good Mir.-
V-  agglethorp u; 'your Iheart is tellheel  -1od
, less tou.eAnd your son hortfr Will.
was wringng ,,his other hauni, " I ietimmy
bl es dinl' n it lhlImyl vtreasm-e1'.  1,I was  is  ritchi
as JonJalob-x ;Iaeohi Ator, I coitnilt  -o ayli  t
plainerin n hat high e-teet I hold (this hon 
youth1."
Noble fellow.cried Mr. (ci-ntrt, coinititi'
5k-

it on his crutches, " You shall not lose you-
trealanre."'
What !" cried Mr. Baggletho1te angrily,
"ot won't take her"
SWe t'il take het," aidl Mtrs. Gentry.
""We n'i/#takle her,"' said 3!r. (Gten tr oni
trt't for  yout, 311r. 1lagletho rlw.  She  shall
taxe  a  Ioite  x1ith  s.  She  shall  a ettiitil
hil( Ia1Ilve  vnh  n a, for  two years.  At
-h n( O'ta  ilt nn e  t;e :0h~d  e returned to,
iit, tit olitliiI her a tL you have  rightt.'
A-! eel  tiul -i gItutV Mh:r  'IOrtui
-its  nli  ' t= u -0  . ii  xx wil  live  yere.  'lm-
Hlhee tt   \ nd t hent, W illia mr
xN ill Ihe-at xx'eulii t--'
And there n   -na ( hristno too
,tiln not "(oing,-to take ten  page  a lW'itb
to tell it.  A  Chrietmlas 'iveddiin  e rem ,4
The oo ( ,1 Mr. ltialethorpo egae  t;V ytim
bridle---;h1!'how  heauttif'ul Iifine  llo d~  th a,
ni'gt !- Iix proud hitr faithittil Willie! And
wha t a -lly tiit e tiet x as all roundti
Atndi thent thegoodit Mr.t tita-ett iiet-ce-t
ed1 hop fat old wife,'uinier Ihi,-; arm, and v~lais
ced d101 thme di-tane 'withla)a rtivyheart his;
da rling  la'iine surre1"ndered  fo,)e~rm -I hwlilin
and peace behind h im, before him it rem-ed(
groutnd Of the toil ainl tronhle n i\h11are thet
chaie freward of, honest Unlustry faithfully
andl persistentlyv nusdircectd. .

~4


               
             
         
       
   
