
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). The Buckeye Ranger .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7610
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Buckeye ranger 
            
               1
r
rk*
f

/ I"
1 i'
I .  .%

I

K    TB EITCKEYBBEgD
A TALE
t*Y.
NECW YORK :
FaED R BRADY Pub  elihr

.i

1r,

4


I

I                )
T
t
1
r
f
f
5

CHAPTER I.
HERo MAKES HIS BOW TO THE
READER.

It was night on the Western prairies and the
stars were glowing silvery and soft tuae azure
arch. . The gauzy spray of clouds sailing at in-
tervals across the quiet heavens, obscured not
the mild lustre of the moon, nor cast a shadow
upon the wilderness.
A youth of slender figure, clad in garb befit-
ting the hunter and backwoodsman, was stand-
ing with meditative brow upon a gentle emi-
nence, leaning gracefully upon his rifle, which
was ofapproved make and studied finish. His
features,, though not strongly masculine in
mould, were not uncomely, nor without' the
prestige of thought. His. maturity of expres-
sion was notably in contrastwith his otherwise
youthful personne.- His eyes were somewhat
dreamy, impressing the physiognomist with the
idea that his imagination dwelt in a world vague
and impracticable, far removed from the scenes
of this but too real sphere._
Below him, at the base of the hill, the waters
of Kansas River, were flowing ; while at his
left the distant peaks of the Rocky Mountains
were visible, towering in their stern, unchang-
ing grandeur like everlasting guardians of the
North-an army of eternal occupation, which
the might of" finite man can never conquer ;
upon his right, prairies unfolded their scenery
like an endless panorama, diversified by strips
of timber, swamps of grass, and shrubbery. At
a short'distance from the youth, the smoke of
a blazing fire arose in a misty column, forming
numberless fantastic wreaths and phantom
shapes. A solitary figure was.stretched beside
the burning faggots, sleeping as soundly, appar-
ently, as if domiciled beneath a sheltering roof,
and couched upon the softest bed. The youth
approached the spot ; at the sound of his foot-

steps the man sprang to his feet, casting quick,
sharp glances around him. In a moment his
gaze was fastened upon the intruder, and he re-
laxed his guarded watchfulness. With his
raven eyes he scanned the object that had ex-
cited his attention, with stronger indications of
contempt than curiosity or alarm. The youth
advanced, and begging pardon for the intru-
sion, expressed a hope that he hadinot disturbed
his dreams or awakened his fears.
The person to whom these words were ad-
dressed, smiled ; and'turning his back partially
toward the youth, replied, rather sarcastically,
that he seldom took the trouble to dream ; as
for fear, Ben Brion was a stranger to it, and
had certainly seen nothing to excite such an
emotion for a long time. He trusted he had too
long been a sojourner in the West to be terri-
fied at trifles. He then stroked his beard,
shrugged his shoulders, and smiled again. The
young man doubtless understood the stranger's
meaning, but without appearing to notice it,
added, that if his company would not be con-
sidered particularly disagreeable,he would ven-
ture to take a seat by the fire, which seemed
to him very cheerful and inviting.
The individual who had styled himself Ben
Brion replied, that he was at liberty to please
himself in that respect, though lie fancied that
a stuffed chair, or a feather bed, would agree
better with his constitution than any accom-
modation he could offer. The youth answered
to the effect that he was not fastidious ; that a
blazing fire would suffice for a night so serene
and tranquil. He seated himself, placed his
rifle on the gtbund beside hini, and instead of
turning his attention to Brion, resumed his
study of the heavens with an abstracted air.
At first, Brion seareely deigned to notice the
stripling ; but presently condescended to honor
him with furtive glances, which, judging by
the express on of his features, did not inereese
his esteem for his visitor. He obviously eon-

tee..

r  l r   wrrlrfrr  w1    M                                   wrf  rrrl      r

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

IN WHICH THE

I

i
A
1
A
I
y
7i
i
4+
y
kt
S.i
r

.
,;
,  y,
.;,

0


i
1w
f

9

sidered him too poor in experience to be enti- occasions, and grow stronger ; and possibly it'
tied to any considerable share of attention from  was nhus with the trapper. He examined the
one who had grown ripe in adventure, and won stripling- more in detail;' but despite his, un-
his knowledge of the Western wilds through friendly doubts, was forced .to acknowledge, to
much hardship and danger.                  his conscience, that he could see nothlug that
The sturdy trapper and mountaineer is prone savored of evil, in his comely face. He had se-
to pride himself not a little on his skill and rous thoughts of detaining him, however, with-
powers of endurance, and to regard the unsue- out his consent; and, by adroit cross-ques-
essful, ineffective. add uninitiated, in his wan- tioning or positive menace, draw forth his
deiring, perilous life, with other feelings than purpose.
respect or radiation. Brion might well draw  But the next moment, he was ready to blush
comparisons, and measure his physical man- for planning such a violation of wild-wood hos-
hood with the youth, inasmuch as his person  pitality. He simply concluded to watch his
was not wanting in masculine development or visitor, and if he shared the comforts of the fire
athletic grace. In external appearance the two during the night (which he seemed disposed to
were quite at variance, presenting scarcely an do), he would take such steps to fathom his
observable feature of similarity. The differ. object as his judgment might suggest. With
enee to a thirduparty would have been very this intention, he stretched himself epon his
marked-                                    blanket. For a short time lie kept his face,
At that period there was much rivalry exist- turned toward the youth. Anon his sight
ing between the various organized fr compa- grew unsteady ; the stranger became confused
sies, which often led to the most lamentable with the fire, the trees, the shadows in the
results. The parties kept a jealous watch of background, the skies, and the stars; and so
each other, resorting to all the unmanly arts of Brion sank into slumber.
low cunning to mislead, baffle, and injure a.ri-  Upon awaking in the morning, his first im..
val enterprise. These wars of interest were in pulse was to .look for the youth ; but he wis
continual operation, ultimating notunfrequent- not there. Near the spot where the trapper
ly in bloody rencontres and terrible reprisals, had slept was a dead rattlesnake, which lie
Being in the employ of the American Fur Corn- must have killed before departing. He had left
pang Brion, not unnaturally, began to feel a mark of good-will, Brion could not but con-
suspicious of the youth, and query whether he fess. The serpent might have wounded him
was not in the employ of the adverse confed- fatally while he slept, had -not the friendly
-racy-a spy on his movements, perchance. offices of the youngster prevented such a catas-
This conjecture was not calculated to soften his trophe.
prejudices, as may be imagined, because oppo-  His simple morning . meal dispatched, he
sition w as then raging with great bitterness, -caught his horse (which had been side-hned,
aggravated by mutual acts of hiostility. It was and allowed to; feed upon the newly grown
a very important season for those who were grass at the distance.of a hundred yards from
ambitious, to profit by the hunter's craft. It his bivouac) and resumed his, way in a western
was early in May, and the trapping campaign direction toward the Platte or Nebraska River.
was about to open. The rival associations were Three days passed without bringing any nota-
hurrying to the rivers and lakes where game ble adventure to the sturdy mountaineer. On
abounded, each nervously anxious to outstrip the afternoon of the fourth, he saw a, traveler
the other, and obtain all the advantages of a approaching, mounted upon a large sorrel
choice of ground; and, with that object in  horse, the proportions and  movements of
view, took every conceivable means to conceal which were not calculated to impress the ob-
their own movements, and deceive and retard  server with a very high opinion of his quahi-
the opposite interest,                     ties. The animal was of ample size, but pre-
Brion, having tarried at Fort Leavenworth seated various bony outlines and angles, seem-
to complete some necessary transactions relat- ingly indicative of scarcity of forage, or con-
ing to the Ameriean Fur company, was then stitutionalrnarasmus. The man riding this un-
proceeding to join the band, which had started  prepossessing beast is worthy a passing de-
several days ii} advance. Being made acquaint- scription.
ed with these particulars, the reader will be  His garb was strikingly fantastic, and would
able to form a tolerably correct idea of the have appeared, to prevailing taste, very incon-
trapper's position, and the train of thoughts gruous, being made up of an odd mixture of
the appearance of the youth, under such cir- savage and civilized apparel. He was of low
eumstances, would be likely to awaken. We stature, but of singularly masculine develop'
must do him the ,stice to remark, that he was meat, broad sholders, and prominent chest.
not innately ineined to be discourteous or sus- His face had a good-humored expression, le-
picious; but long experience in the ways and spite the swamp of beard that. covered it, and
wiles of antagonistic parties had rendered him the elk-skin, cap drawn low upon his brow.
keenly awake to strategy and covert dealing. There was the prestige of fun in his small
Pietrast, once aroused, is apt to thrive on petty  eyes, which had a constant twinkle. His iife

was slung across his back by a leather strap
When. within fifty rods of Ben Brion, h
raised a loud war-whoop and put his beast to:
gallop, performing a series of Indian evolution
with ludicrous effect. He made two circle
round the mountaineer at a full run, clinging t
the farther side of the animal, and peering
over his back as if reconnoitering in true ab
original style, shouting and yelliiig.
To humorhis whim, Brion dismounted an
rested his rifle on the pommel of his saddle to
receive him with the precaution due to his a6.
sumed character. The stranger gradually drew
near, and the parties, with proper formality
saluted, and extended the hand of friendship.
Many such meetings transpire 'on the wid
prairies of the West. Whatever feeling o
distrust Brion was disposed to harbor at first
gave place to geniality, when he learned thai
his new acquaintance' was not connected with
any organized fur company, but prided himself
in belonging to that' roving, independent class
known as free trappers; whose homes were the
mountains and prairies, and whose pleasure
was the excitement of danger.
Buckeye-such was the rover's name-was
in good spirits, and enlivened the way by his
witticisms and strange tales. At nightfall,
they encamped together quite amicably, Brion
taking considerable pains to enlist Buckeye in
his brigade of hunters; but he intimated that
he preferred liberty to the gold and authority
of a partisan leader.
Another serene evening followed.  Unable
to sleep, Brion left his hard couch to contem-
plate the starry beauties of the night, and
muse upon the arduous duties upon which he
was entering. The placid skies, the mellow
light, the murmur of glistening waters, ad-
dressed his consciousness like pleasant voices.
While yielding to the soothing influences
around him, and gazing dreamily at the varied
aspects, Brion fancied he heard a slight move-
ment ineagroup of young poplars at his right.
Disciplined in.a school of severest watchful-
ness,t ee as alive to sounds inaudible to un-
practiced ears. He advanced cautiously to-
ward the spot whence the noise proceeded.
He imagined, as he parted the branches of the
trees, and stepped intothe thicket, he caught
a vague glance of an object in rapid motion
beyond theabushes, deeper in thershadow. It
might have been a human figure, or it might
have been but the reflection of a cloud thrown
transiently upon the open space  With his
rifle ready for instant use, Brion moved foi-
ward. On the margin of the wood, he paused
and examined the locality. He was much sur-
prised at finding an Indian hatchet sticking
into a tree near him. He drew it forth; the
handle was yet warm from the belt of its
owner. A minute had not elapsed, obviously,
since it had been hurled into the yielding
bark. The mountaineerlooked for a fresh trail,

. but was for some time unsuccessful, until going
e farther from the tree, he found a spot where
a the grass was bent, as if pressed by a huma
s foot. He followed the trail for a few  rods,
s when it suddenly ceased ; he could trace it no
o farther.
g The circumstance perplexed Brion greatly',
- for his skill in tracing a trail amounted almost
to instinct. Ascending a ridge close at hand,
d ,he scanned the country on either side as far as.
he could see, but without making any addi-
- tional discovery. He returned to his camp-
fire, thoughtful. Buckeye was sleeping, and
" Flash," his horse, was standingelose by hime.
with ears erect and vigilant. Trained, like his
e master, to a life of peril, like him he had
f learned watchfulness. Some sound had reached
, him to excite his fears or curiosity, and put hiia
t on the alert.
- " Faithful creature !" nfused Brion. ""Ex-
f perience has quickened his senses, and made
him little inferior to reasoning beings"
The partisan (the leaders of these enterprises
were thus called) awaked the trapper, and re-
lated what had occurred. Buckeye stirred the
a fire, took a bite of tobacco, rubbed his forA
head, and gave signs of uneasiness.
"There's a great difference in sarenmstan.
ces," quoth he, sagely. "Some things are easy
to explain and some isn't !"
When he had expressed this sentiment. he
aimed a jet of dark-colored extract at a hlazing
brand. "Flash," hearing his moister's well-
known voice, came up and placed his no'e oi
his shoulder, as if soliciting coinpan ionsh ip.
" The cretur knows me, stranger, and is
restless when I'm a good way off We conild-t
part, Flash and I couldn't. 'Twould be a sorry
day for both of us, if he should change owners.
But I.hope that'll never be. 'Twould break his
heart to have a redskin back him. - But that's
nothing to do with the subject; aul, is i said
afore, in different words, some matters are
mighty mysterious, and hard to get at under.
standingly. There's strange characters in this
wild kentry, and one don't allers know what's
arter him. The nateral reptiles of the soil have
a heap of cunnin', and it's never safe to shet
both eyes at night. We're tracked -that's
evident enough ; but by who i, is another
question. There's danger at our backs, hut
which of us two is spoke for, I can't say. I'll
tell you more about it artery we've passed Fort
Laramie ; that is, if we both -should he alive
then."
" It would he well to move off, leaving oeu
fire burning, I suppose," returned Brion  fit
is our duty to be reasonably cautious and care-
ful of life. There's a Scriptural injunction laid'.
upon us to be wise as serpents."
"If a parson had said that, it couldn't hare
been more to the p'int. I know of a very quiet
campin'-ground a few miles farther on, where
I passed a night, some months ago, when the

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

0

f

PIi1 BUCKEYE RANGER


10             THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

heathen reptiles had somehow got wind of my
movements."
The parties mounted their horses, and the fire,
where they had anticipated, passing an undis-
turbed night, was soon far behind The spot
referred to by Buckeye proved a fitting place
for their purpose, being sheltered by large
rocks and trees, and hemmed by a crescent-like
bend in the river.
Brion felt at home. The wide sky arching
over him in unveiled beauty, with its starry
hosts ; the spreading prairies, the distant moun-
tains, tue running waters and fluttering leaves,
were things that had voices, and addressed him
with pleasant language. The mountaineer was
entirely satisfied with his mode of life. He felt
no desire to be other than he was. There was
a charm (for him) in the atmosphere of the wil-
derness ; while the certainty of danger added
new zest --making him more in love with his
calling. Like Buckeye, he had been a free
trapper, but the strong inducement held out to
him'by the American Fur Company, had (after
considerable hesitation and rather against his
independent predilections) caused him to accept
the post of4 partisan," or leader of the enter-
prise. He knew it was a trying and difficult
position, but trusted that he should be able, by
his experience in trapping and hunting, to give
satisfaction to all concerned.
When he resumed his way on the ensuing
morning, the glowing stories of Buckeye, con-
cerning the pleasures and excitement of a free
trappers existence, made him half regret his
engagement.   Before noon he overtook the
band, consisting of about seventy-five men,
amply provided with pack-horses and mules. .
"6I wast no sich'ereters as them," said Buck-
eye, pointing to the latter, with a contemptu-
ous expression. " And as for baggage, a real
trapper needs nothin' but his gun, huntin'-
knife, and traps. Themmen are slaves to their
mules and packs. No, no ! I couldn't think of
such a life ! Give me Flash, and this trusty
weapon, and the sky for my roof, and the prai-
rie for my floor, with nobody to dictate what I
shall or shan't do, and I ask nomore."
With this pithy epitome of his sentiments,
Buckeye shouted "Hi, hi!" performed some
difficult feats of horsemanship, then abating
somewhat of his equestrian fury, joked the slow-
paced brigade unmercifully, contrasting their
encumbered march with his own untrammelled,
unburdened movements. In Brion's estimation,
there was too much truth in such badinage to
make it altogether agreeable to the moderately-
moving party. Flash, in return, received criti-
cisms not complimentary to himself or his mas-
ter, but which were borne by the latter with
perfect equanimity.
We cannot here make the reader acquainted
with the various individuals of which the band
was composed. There were French and hall-
treeds, a few of Mexican origin-the greater.

number being Americans from frontier towns
There was also a Texan adventurer, a Kentuck
ian, a Virginian, and a young fellow from Mas.
sachusetts. Many were veteran trappers, while
some were fresh on the prairies, unpracticed in
the arts and expedients of hunter life.  Thus
far on their march all had gone well. The In-
dians had not molested them ; and grass boeing
abundant, the horses and mules were in good
condition. The young and unschooled in the
kind of existence opening before them, feared
they should reach the distant theatre of opera-
tions without incident or excitement, or adven-
tures worth relating when they should again
reach home; but the wiserheads shrugged their
shoulders, intimating very plainly that danger
might come before they were ready for it.
They passed Fort Laramie with nothing to
break the monotony of their march. The jubi-
lant spirits of the younger men began to flag;
continued travel had already taken the first
starch of greenness out of them. Seeing how
smoothly things were proceeding, they grew
less vigilant ; ridiculed the precautions of Brion;
wishing for an opportunity to show the red-
skins what they could do," boasting in no mea-
sured terms their ability to teach them civili-
ty.  Buckeye, who continued with the band,
heard all this bravado in silence, feeling more
inejined to feed their vanity than to rebuke their
folly.
One morning, one of those who had been
loudest in his threats, and had sneered most at
the nightly cautions of Brion, was missed from
camp. Believing that he would soon return, no
uneasiness was felt on his account ; but not
making his appearance, several of his friends
started to look for him. After a short search,
his lifeless body was fopnd a few rods from the
encampment.   It had no wound-no sign of
mortal injury visible to casual eyes ; yet the
animating spirit had gone !  The thoughtless
braggarts at first were shocked, supposing their
comrade had met his death by violence; but dis-
covering no external hurt, they changed their
minds, and concluded he had died a natural
death.-
" What do you call a natural death ?" asked
Buckeye.
A young Missourian, by the name of Head-
ley, replied, that he supposed apoplexy might
be thus called.
" If it's apoplexy, then apoplexy's a catchin'
disease, and more'n one of ye'll be down with
it afore you reach the trappin' grounds," said
Buckeye, mysteriously.
" You are not talking to boys, but to men 1"'
retorted the Missourian, loftily.
"I'm glad you've told me, for I shouldn't have
mistrusted it," was the instant rejoinder.
" It's plain enough to any one in his senses
that this man died of a disease of the heart or
brain. What else could kill him? I see no
wounds or bruises, nor any signs of a struggle ;

and you'll find it hard to crowd your mysteri-
ous nonsense down our throats in the way you
think."
" Since you're so wise, it aint worth while to
tell you anythin' more, because it -night hurt
ye. I've knowed folks to be injured by know-
in' too much.  An acquaintance of mine was
'bliged to take to his bed jest on account of his
gineral information," answered Buckeye, with
quiet sarcasm.
A grave was dog beneath a spreading poplar,
in which the body was decently interred. The
earth was smoothed, and a fire built over the
spot, to prevent the resting-place of the mortal
remains from being disturbed by the natives.
During the day's march there was considerable
discussion relative to the man's decease ; but
Brion; Buckeye, and a few others, studiously
avoided the topic. The latter had already ren-
dered himself unpopular by the singular opin-
ion he had advanced relative to the subject. He
had lost among a certain class who had pre-
viously been disposed to think highly of his
wisdom and experience, that repute which lie
hiad gained for shrewdness among them. They
doubted his mental soundness, regarding him as
weak and superstitious. Where before his pre-
sence had been welcome, he was now met with
coldness and ridicule. Sneers, covert jokes, and
unfriendly innuendos, passed from uiouth to
mouth at his expense.
Such demonstrations the sturdy trapper did
not deign to notice. He smoked his pipe calm-
ly, conversed with the veterans of the brigade,
praised the good qualities of Flash, and made
occasional reconnoitering excursions in ad-
vance. It was remarked by the more observing,
that Brion was more' thoughtful and taciturn
than usual. though they could very'naturally
attibute the fact to the circumstance of the re-
cent death.
The next camp was chosen with particular
care, and- unwonted precautions were had in
setting a guard. The latter, two in number,-
were relieved at midnight, when Headley
and one of his friends took. their' places, with
instructions to be vigilant. The Missourian
heard Brion's orders with manifest impatience,
and demanded to know if he supposed this
was his first experience on the prairies of the
Weit.
" You may have had some experience in the
border tow ns," said the mountaineer, mildly;
" but you have not yet grown gray with the
vicissitudes of a hunter's life. You're in a re-
gion now where one hour is no type of what
the next will be. - Things unexpected happen
here. There are seventy-four of us, well, and
in fighting condition ; but in the morning it
isn' impossible that one may be missed from
the lumber of his mess. I have known a band
like this to be routed and scattered in a single
night."

The Missourian turned his back upon Brict
and made no reply.
The following morning proved cloudy an,
dark, therefore favorable to repose ; a circus
stance of which the weary adventurers availeu
themselves by sleeping soundly to a later hour
than they had been accustomed. Brion at
length aroused them, and -the camp was soon
astir with active preparations for cooking.
Headley was found sleeping near the fire, and
being awakened by the clatter around him, as.
sure Buckeye, with a sinister smile, that he
had escaped the disease, called apoplexy, in a
wonderful manner. The former glanced quickly
over the groups of men, replying that he hoped
it had fared as well with his comrades., Some
one said:
" Let's ask him. Where is he ?"
"Safe enough, I'll warrant," said Headley.
Several voices called to the party referred to.
At that moment Brion come up to the group
with a very grave face.
"Little good will it do to call him-he'll
never answer to human call againI" he said, in
a -low, measured tone.
Every face was fixed on the partisan's in an
instant.
" Billy Minten is goneI" lie added.
"Gone where 2" asked Headley.
"Where we're all going, my men--to the
great nation of the dead I" he answered, sadly.
TheMiasourian's cheeks paled, while the bun-.
ters and trappers gazed at each other in silence.
"His body lies yonder; he fell at his post.
And perhaps," he continued, looking steadily
at Headley, "some of you can tell what he
died of?"
" A disease of the head or heart," muttered
Buckeye, loud enough for Headley to hear '
Brion's men now gathered about the remains
of the unfortunate young man, seeking vainly
for the wound that sped him hence. Evidently
the had fallen where lie had last stood, stricken
mortally, nor had moved a limb thereafter.
His immortal part had been dismissed from his
corporeal tabernacle without a struggle or pain-
ful contortion. The face was as calta as if he
slept; his lips were closed, as were the eyes-
expressing no dread, or horror, or conscious-
ness of suffering ; and the ghastliness of death
was not written upon any of the features.
When this spectacle first presented, an inter-
val of silence followed ; which anon gave place
to hurried queries no one could (or would) and
swer. conjecture became rife, and speculation
and hypothesis united to solve the mystery.
Buckeye, Brion, and other veterans- in wood-
craft, stood aloof. Headley, who made preten-
sions to some knowledge of surgery, conducted
the examination of the body, assisted by others
of his sympathizers. Reluctantly h's relinquish-
ed the search. Perfect obscurity covered the
case; a truth he was loth to admit, for he
prided himself on his perspicacity.

1!
I

r

THE BUCKEYE RANGER,


12                          TIlE BUCIE
" Well, sir, what are your conclusions ?- said
the partisan, as Headley turned away, and passed
where he was standing.
'"There is nw evidence that he died of vio-
lence--not the least. It is a puzzling case ; but
his sudden decease must be attributed to some
hereditary predisposition to-"
A low laugh from Buckeye interrupted the
speaker, and sent the blood to his face in a man-
ner indicative.of considerable excitement.
"Go on," said the partisan, quietly.
"Not another word I" exclaimed Headley.
"Upon some people common-sense is thrown
away,.and sound reason, predicated on experi-
ence, i$ just so much Greek. Superstition and
ignorance go together, sir I"
A slight smile curled Brion's lips for a mo-
nment, while Buckeye stroked his long beard
and shrugged his 'shoulders, according to his
habit.
" You decide, if I understand you, Mr. Head-.
ley, that Minten died by some lurking disease,
which came to a sudden and fatal crisis las
night ?" resumed the partisan.
The Missourian bowed stiffly.
"You do not care to be explicit, I see ?.
"Congestion of the brain, perhaps," replie'
Headley, ill-humoredly.
"Or.perhaps some diffikilty about the heart,
replied Buck-ye, with affected humility.
Headley dai'ted an angry look at the offender
for nothing upset his mental equilibrium  s-
quickly as doubting his knowledge, or ridicule
ing his opinions He was specially infallible
in his medical wisdom-his father having been
a country doctor, with a large practice. To-
ward Buckeye, within the last two days, he.
had begun to entertain a positive dislike,
which threatened to go on gathering strength
until it became absolute, enmity and hatred.
The trapper's matter. of-fact assu mption of sun
perior skill in woodciaft had, in the first place,
piqued hin' thanehis obstinate refusal to bow
to his judgment in the incomprehensible cases
of which we have been treating, completed his
antipathy. As we have taken care to impress
it upon the courteous reader, the younger and
less experienced portion of the band sympa-
thized with Hleadley, while only the veterans
appeared to occupy neutral ground. Naturally
superstitious, soie of the trappers were ready
to believe that Heaven fiowned on their enter-
prise, and was nanifesting its disapproval by
the visitations of death. Gloom and discour-
agement settled upon the countenances of such,
nssl they resumed their march with a sullen-
fleas that boded little good to Brion's schemes.,

YE RANGER

CHAPTER II.
TIIE UNKNOw Y OUTH AGAIN APPEARS.
The party moved slowly on, Brion and Buck-
eye remaining behind, with two men, to see the,
body of Minten consigned to its kindred ele-
ments, and all traces of the grave obliterated,
to prevent its subsequent exhumation by savage
hands. Thy simple bu;ial was soon coni-
pleted. Buckeye was in the act of lighting
the fagots that had been, heaped on the spot
by the partisan's order, when a horseman was
descried approaching at a gallop. his hurri.
pace brought him-quickly to the side of tre
mountaineer, who had observed his advane-
with a curiosity that could not be disguised
The rider was the slender youth who sought
his lonely bivouac-fire on the baikc of the
Kansas.
Brion felt disposed to study the yomg et ra,
ger closely. He noticed that hi chii -vr
guiltless of beard ; his eyes larcae. viveciou
and sparkling; his face dark, but comely. Al
though clad, as has before been stated, in be
fitting garb, his appearance wa- extreme'
neat, and Brion thought a trifle foppisih. Thi
idea Was sustained somewhat by the fact tha
his feet and hands were small, the first encased
in close-fitting moccasins, ornam-ted by In-
dian skill; the-latter covered with gloves of
soft leather, long enough to reach above the
wrist, a third of the way to the elbow. His
small, elegant rifle was fastened inmeniously to
the saddle on the right side, in a maner to bt
instantly available when wanted. A brace of'
silver-mounted pistols peeped from holsters at
the pommel, 'while the handle of a dagger
flashed in the sun at his slight waist
He sat on his horse with grace, and, there-
fore, with ease.  And here we are brought
naturally to speak of the qualities of the ani-
mal that bore'the youthful rid, r  He was
large and black as ebony, so that. the moun-
taineer and trapper couldn't but admire his
model proportions. Their attention was di-
vided between the steed and his master; though
too proud to confess, by outward manifesta-
tion, how much they were interested and puz-
zled, or, at least, not while the eyes of the
youth were upon them.
"Good morning, messieurs," he said, with
an accent not purely American, yet clear end -
distinct.
"Yes, it is a very good morning, but I should
like it better wore it less cloudy," answered

.t
t .

THE BtCKE1
the partisan, with more courtesf than on a
former occasion.'
- I suspect we ought to be pleased with
everything Providence sends.; not to be so,
seems like finding fault with one with whote
dispensations we have no right to meddle,",was
the' immediate rejoinder.
" I confess, good youth, that your reasoning
has the savor of truth. And I am now re-
minded that I am probably under some obliga-
tion to you. I found near me, on awakening
the next morning after your visit, a dead ser-
pent of a venomous kind, which was doubtless,
slain by your hand," added Brion.
"If that trifling act confers obligation, wh.
you are right  The creature was about to d
you an injury ; and, fortunately, it was in ml
power to dispatch him before he fixed hr
fangs."   I           '
"For which service I am deeply indebted.
If my reception was not at that time entire-
ly cordial, and mingled with distrust, I trust
to atone for the same when opportunity shall
present."
Brion spoke with some warmth, and bowed,
quite low; for the youth, despite his slight fig-
ure and smooth face, had an air that in some
strange manner commanded respect.
The stranger's horse a~that moment snuffed
the air with affright, trembled, reared, and,
made a sidelong bound.
" Be quiet, Brave, be quiet. I see nothing to
fear," said his master, soothingly.
" We have just buried a comrade here ; it is
the scent of death that terrifies him," said the
partisan.
The young rider colored, and backed Brav
from the spot.
"Did yon' friend find a natural death, or di(
he die by Indian hostility ?" he inquired.
" Indeed, sir, I will request my more expe-
rienced crompanion to answer your question,,
feeling confident that he will get nearer the
truth."
"It seems to me that the matter is very sim-
ple. Certainly, the answer must be. yes or no;
in which case one must be entirely right ortab-
solutely wrong."
"Ordinarily speakin', your ideas would be
perfectlyto the pint; but in the partie'lar in-
stance, you are wide the mark," said Buckeye.
" The cap'n has been pleased to refer to nie ;
but my opinion. I dare say, wouldn't be worth
much to ye. If it wouldn't be takin' too
much liberty, I'd like to 'ask if your friends
are far from her ; for I take it you ain't alone,.
seeing' you're young and inexperienced, as I
may say ?"                               ,
"I hope I have friends not far from me ; it
would make me wretched to believe to the
contrary," was the evasive reply.
Prudential motives had clearly dictated
Buckeye's query, and the youth appeared to
comprehend his feelings.

YE RANGER.                             13
"Being a stranger, you don't think it pru-
dent to trust me ; is it not so ?"
" Well, F had such a notion, I confess," said
the trader.         '
"AndI -am too youthful in appearance to
invite confidence?  Come!d be true to your-
self! Have I not traced the workings of your
mind ?"
"If you' never commit a greater blunder
than that, you'll be a lucky lad," resumed
Buckeye, with a characteristic motion of the
shoulders. " But young heads," he added,
" may be discreet, and a beard isn't allers ne-
cessary to muke cne shrewd ; though judgin' by
appearances, I should Daterally conclude -you
ain't a veteran in woodcraft; and your frame
is notcalculated to endure the hardships and
fatigues of this kind of life. It isn't my busi
ness, maybe, yet I'd advise ye, as a friend, to
keep near your company."
" I'm obliged to you for your good-will, and
will endeavor to take care of myself," was the
good-natured reply. "I see you about to
move on. I will bear you company'at least
for a time-to which proposal I trust you
will have no objections," he added, in the same
vein.
Brion felt a strong desire to know his new
friend's name, purpose, and destination; but,
notwithstanding his situation was one to make
such interrogatories proper, lie did not ap-
proach'the subject without considerable em-
barrassment, that could 'not have escaped the
observing eyes of the stranger.
"I presume," he began, " that the party to
which you are attached seek these savage re-
gions for the sake of excitement and novelty
alone ?"
" Your judgnient is good, my friend."
The partisan, though dissatisfied with the re-
ply, did not give up the pursuit.
" Is your band large, sir ?" he resumed.
6" Not very. I will remark, too, that their
interest, I think, will not to any considerable
extent conflict with yours., Be good enough to
drop your suspicions, and permit me to see
something of that generous confidence that I
have heard distinguishes the roving trapper of
the West. Had'I been your enemy, I should
have permitted that ugly serpent to finish his
work. Come, messieurs, tell me what caused
the death of your comrade, whose grave is on
the prairie, like a sailor's in the sea?"
These words were spoken with an ingenuous
frankness that, for the time being, dispelled
distrust from the mind of the mountaineer.
Looking at the lad's frank face, lie could not
resist the convictions that his intentions were
friendly, his mind void of hypocrisy.
"Forgive my reserve, good youth,''said the
pa-tisan, with unaffected earnestness, pausing,
and extending his hand. "The life that 1 am
at present following is ore to make me dis-
trustful of my fellows; and seat up the warm

"  .


fountains of the heart. Know, young sir, that should assert confidently that the two men had
I am the leader of an enterprise that stirs up foul play. I'm- aware how it'll seem to them
the bitterest feelings of rivalry in certain quar- that don't know what I do, and never heard the
ters-a rivalry full of all manner of subtlety name of Redpath."
and hostility. It has not long been thus, for  The youth turned an eager, searching look
you must understand that I have, until recent- on the trppet.
ly, been no man's servant, nor tied to other in- " Stop,'my friend," he said, " and allow me '
terest than my own. I have been a free trap- to interrupt you by asking, who is Redpath ?"
per, consulting the stars and my own convic-  "Ask anything you please, sir-ask what
tions to govern my course; but since I ac- makes the grass grow, or the heart beat, or the
cepted this leadership, I am another man. My sun shine ? Such questions might be common-
eyes have to be in all directions. I am, in place enough, and under some circumstances n
truth, a sort of a watch-dog to guard the pro- doubt very proper ; but answering them is an-
perty of others ; and, like that noble animal, other affair."
shall be prized according to my faithfulness,  " You mean to say that Redpath is a myste-
and the acuteness of my instincts. So much rious personage, whom you know only by his
for my apparent churlishness and reserve- deeds, or what is more probable, by hearsay."
an explanation I have not before deigned to  - "Hearsay comes very near to it, but don't
make even to the honest man you see at my quite cover the whole ground. I have seen
side."                                   effects that were attributed to the one I named,
" No more, I beg of you!I. I know that you by those who had more knowledge of him than
are the soul of generosity and honor ; otherwise, I. Redpath is the enemy of the white man,
the language of the face is false in its utter- the sworn foe of the trapper and hunter.
ance."                                    Where are his haunts, and what does he look
This flattering avowal had something more like, will be asked?' He is in the lonely de-
than the mere wording to commend it to the files, on the mountains, in the forests, upon
partisan ; the tones went directly to that spot the wide prairies. He is one as gives no warn-.
where human friendship begins.  A sense of in' of his approach. IEe comes and goes with
satisfaction accompanied the youth's speech the speed of an eagle on the wing; makes a
into Brion's ears, and the last lingering fray- swoop, strikes the pale-face with the shaft of
meant of contempt said adieu. He straightened death, and is away. He can't be trailed, he
his figure in the saddle, and seemed ten years can't be follered,-he can't be brought within the
younger with his handsome face, free from range of the double sights. He finds a band
lurking doubt, and his lips smiling through his like the cap'n's; he dogs it, he hangs upon it
dark beard.                               in the front, in the rear; yet nobody knows
" You do me too much credit, I assure you," where he is, or what brings death upon 'em,
he answered, in a genial voice, which caused or what power directs the hidden bolt. Where
the stripling to regard him with deepening at- did I hear all this? you'll next want to know.
tention. "But we will not dwell upon this By the dim watch-fires of the wandering hun-
matter longer. Common courtesy touches iy ter, in the camp of the trapper, from  the
elbow, reminding me that the civil question mouths of old voyagers, from the lips of fear-.
proposed by you has not beenanswered. ,You less adventurers, daring mountaineers, and in
wi-, to know the cause of our associate's sud- the wigwams of friendly Indians."
dui decease. Let me inform you that I have  The cheeks, of the unknown youth grew
huried two of our men within forty-eight pale, ,and the partisan's brow wore a sombre
hours, who bore on their persons no visible expression during Buckeye's singular recital.
signs. of violence. Various conjectures are He first observed them both attentively, as if
formed in regard to the subject, the prevailing to satisfy himself of the sincerity of one, and
sentiment being, I think, that both died of a to learn how much of the incredible tale was
disease of the heart or brain. My friend Buck- credited by the other, who had the prestige of
eye will not hesitate, I expect, to speak his a strong mind above the vagaries of supersti-
mind fully and freely, and give us both the tion.                         :v:
benefit of his sound judgment and experience."  "What is your opinion of all this ?" the-
The trapper mused, then looked inquiringly stranger asked, addressing Brion.
at the partisan, to see how far his expression- The latter colored, and appeared disposed to
invited or warranted confidence ; that indi- evade the home question, afraid either of being
vidual 'nodded to the mute interrogatory, but accused of weakness, or shrinking from speak-
still Buckeye remained silent, with his eves ing his honest convictions. His confusion did
cast downward to the pommel of his saddle; or not pass unnoticed. ..
fixed upon the youth at his side, whose large  "I am rea'y to confess that I have often
horse bore him-like a feather, apparently proud heard the name of Redpath up in the moun-
of his own strength.                      tain yonder.  The trappers were wont to talk
" If I was to speak the truth like an honest of him in low tones over their night-fires and
man, as is becoming to me and all others, I buffalo-humps.  He is supposed to be a bold

14

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

N
.

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

15

and cunning savage;of great personal strength,
who spends his life in avenging some real or
fancied wrong. That his doings, are exaggera-
ted, is very probable, and yet the being called
Redpath is dangerous. You may consider him
fabulous; you may even smile at my serious-
ness, and pity my credulity."
"And so you conclude Redpath slew your
men?"
There was a trifle of irony in the stranger's
tones that did not escape Brion's notice.
"I have not yet admitted that, I believe."
" It was I who affirmed it," said, Buckeye.
" One admission which you made, you have
evidently forgotten ; you stated clearly that
there were no marks of violence on the
bodies ?"
Buckeye was embarrassed by the cross-
questioning of his new acquaintance; to gain
time as well as to hide his momentary confu-
sion, he helped himself to a generous quid of
tobacco. Like most men, he was afraid of
ridicule ; and that, in fact, was about the only
thing he feared in the world.
" I know it has a curious look at first, but a
fact is a fact, and nothin' can change it. You
see he has the, knack of doin' it in a strange
way."
"I should think so."
" I reckon it won't make no great difference
what you think 1" retorted Buckeye, drowning.
"Not the slightest; but it is a very myste
rious tale you have been telling, and you must
pardon a little natural doubt on my part. If
you scowl thus, I shall leave you."
The trapper said to himself, " It won't be a
great loss."
"A story, after making the circuit of the
Rocky Mountains, must necessarily be full
grown when it gets here," the unknown added.
" And I dare say you'll get to be a man
when you have gone half that distance" Buck-
eye rejoined, with a spice of sarcasm.
It was now the youth's turn tobe confused ;
he reddened to the eye-brows, while the trap.
per congratulated himself on his lucky hit.
"Be steady, Brave," said the youth ;, an ad.
monition seemingly quite useless, as Brave was
at that instant as docile as he could possibly be
" To be killed," suddenly resumed the young
man, rallying, "one must inevitably receive
injuries of some kind-either wounds or bruises
-something to leave tangible marks upon the
person. Tell me, now, is there not some reason
in this logic ?"
"Oh, too much," replied Buckeye, sullenly
"Pardon, sir," co tinued the other, addres
sing Brion, "you have interested me ver3
much in this wonderful relation. Really, do
you believe in this savage vampire-this Gia
Ben Gian of the prairies ?"
"No more than what I am constrained to
We may injure ourselves as much by believing
too little as in believing too much. Dange

that is,apprehended is, in a measure, guarded
against. Though young in years, your intelli-
gent face assures me that you understand the
force of my last remark."             -
"Do you fear this inexplicable enemy of the
pale faces?"
Whatever fault this question might have, it
did not lack explicitness. The hot blood flew
to Brion's face in an instant, and lie turned a
proud, rebuking face upon the questioner.
" Your extreme youthfulness," he said, with
dignified severity, " induces me to overlook
the-the-impertinence of your question."
"I have offended."
" And I have forgiven."
" Thanks I"
"Speak no more of it. I shall be cautious,
but not cowardly. I hate cowardice-it is a
species of meanness indicative of a pitiful
spirit. Thus worthy trapper has spoken of
Redpath-a personage either real or imagina-
ry-and he has expressed hi opinion freely.
Not so have I. If such an one exists, it is my
fixed purpose to know more of 'him-to un-
mask him-to discover if lie really pursues
white men with the malignity and secrecy with
which the tongue of mountain   rumor has
charged him. I own that I have my doubts,
and certain circumstances stagger and perplex
me. My camp in future shall be on the alp-rt ;
a prairie dog shall not be able to pass it un-
seen. Our enemies shall know what it is to
outwit a veteran mountaineer."
Buckeye glanced at the partisan with an air
of pride and satisfaction ; it pleased him to re-
flect that such a brave, well spoken man was a
brother trapper. "He cried : "iHi, hi!" to
Flash, causing lnim to shoot ahead of his com-
panions like an Jarrow.  Brave laid his ears
back, offended that another animal should have
the audacity to pass him.  Buckeye's exhila-
ration soon expended itself, and lie allowed
Brion to come up with him.
" Your horse has excellent qualities, I'm
sure," the young man remarked, as Buckeye
resumed his former place.
S   " He hasn't no equal between this and the
s Pacific, I reckon-no superior, sartin I"
.   " Sagacious and intelligent, without doubt.
You call him Flash on account of his speed,
e perhaps ?"
 ." Jest for that reason, mister, and no other
e. He isn't so fat and sleek as some boss-ilesh
n I've seen; but, when there's need, I know
pretty near where to find him. Flash has a
few titicks, too, that I've learned lhim, e'en
- most human."
y    Bri n glanced at the stranger youth at that
o moment, and perceived that he was looking at
n the hatchet that he had taken from the tree in
the manner described. and which he had car-
. ried ever since at his side or his saddle-bow.
g' Seeing that the nutisan had detected the
r directiop.o' 4 ' yi 1e appeared disconcerted,


THE BUCKEYE.RANGER:

and instantly turned his attention another way
The mountaineer was sagacious, and quick to
observe, and the circumstance, slight as it was,
did not pass unnoted. A train of novel ideas
began thereupon to whirl through his brain ;
he seemed trying to work out some kind of a,
problem, without being able to find the proper
data from which to start. Buckeye contrived
to touch him o  the arm, giving him a warn-
ing look, that said : " Cap'n, I'm very sus-
picious of this little feller."
But a change had come over the partisan-
the signs of the trapper were unheeded ; he
rode on, singularly taciturn arid reflective.
"Look, comrade, there's a horseman away
yonder,-and he's making signals !" exclaimed,
Buckeye, pointing toward the mountains.
kI thank you for your company, brave
knights of the rifle and trap. Adieu, mes-
sieurs, adieu I"
With a neigh of joy, Brave recognized the
signal togo, and sprang a.way with a force
that nade the ground tremble.
"A spy I" cried the trapper, vehemently.
"Say but the word, eap'n, and, I'll fowler and
bring the voting scamp back !"
" Do no such thing 1" said Brion, earnestly.
" And what you propose is impracticable.
See bow he rides! ,Alt, my friend, you might
as well chase the wind l"
Buckeye gazed after the black horse and:

his rider with both vexation and admiration-..
vexed he hardly knew for what, and admiring'
because of the swiftness of the steed. He
shook his wise head dubiously, wondering htow
such a silken sort of'lad got so far front home,
and what he was-good for. Small bands and
feet, a slight framte, neatly-fitting garments, a
smooth and comely face, were irreconcilable
with his notions of woodcraft.
" I have a secret," lie said, at length.
" Well ?"
"It is worth knowing' "
" I should like to hear it."
"But to-day I won't tell you. Do you
know it isn't a lucky day to tell a secret? You
don't, of course-I see it by your expression."
"You excite .my curiosity, much, When
shall I have your confidence ?"
" To-morrow, like enough ; we shall see.
But here is the rear of your lazy. fellows, and
the very first man of them is that conceited
coxcomb, leadley ! I can't tolerate him, so
I'll leave you ; but I'll stroll into your-eamp
before the moon is vop to-night."' 1,
The trapper urged Flash to a gallop, and
bounded along the almost interminable reach
of prairie. His stout figure was soon but a
mere-speck between the plain and the horizon,
still growing less and less to the eyes that fol.
lowed him.

CHAPTER ITT,
IN wHICH BELLMAR AND MARIOT APPEAR.,
It is needful that we make a ,retrogade move-
ment, that tie next advance in the line of march
of our story miaty be more orderly and intelli
gible to those so obliging as to follow us in our
rovintrs in the distant West.
Atmbrose Bellniar and Pierre Mariot were
residents of Westport. and partners'in the fur
traie, annually sending forth a brigade of trap.
pers. Te first was an elderly man, the father
of a dItiairtet rwho had attained to seventeen-
year.  as -well as to a degree of beauty exceed-
ittgly rare, save in the pages of romance.
Pipere Maiot was the soli of Jules Mariot,
Motsieur Delhnar's late partner, deceased.
The young itnan- had been admitted to the
house of  Belliar and Mariot," partly on ac-
countit f the frier dshIip that Bellnar had enter-
tained for htis father, and partly because he
did not wish the latter's funds withdrawn
from the enterprise at .a time when there was
a heat y pressure in the money-market. M.
Beilrmar iight have had Other schemes in his
mtind, of which we may presently speak.
Pierre entered keenly into the rivalry of the
trade,, wit fewer conscientious scruples than
his predecessor.  To the senior partner's
credit be it written, that he had more of that
which .men term principle, than the junior;
but Mr Bellmnar, or Monsieur Bellmar-for he
was a Frenchman-was avaricious, possessed
of a restless, insatiate spirit of gain, which led
hint on step by step, encouraged by Pierre, to
runny actstlhat lie feared would trouble tim
on his death-hed. The new fur company had
injred his business ; there had been a per-
ceptible decline in his income since its organ.
ization. Such a state of things alarmed his
cupidity, stimulating him to devise means to
check rmate his competitors, and turn the stream
o ' ,old once more into his coffers. Strategy
he had always encouraged and rewarded, when
successful among his employes ; but, since
the new association had secured the services of
Ben Brion is leader of the trapping operations,
lie was, aware .that ordinary art would fail;
tliereforje, something out of the common order
must I e done, or the trade would languish,
and he, perhaps, be driven, ultimately, entirely
from the field that he had occupied so long,
Vnid gleaned his wealth from.. Pierre Mariot,
who hal also heard the note of warning which
this arrangement had sounded, gave evidence
tht lie would set himself at work in earnest.

Mignon-Bellmar's daughter-was one day
in the library, amusing herself, as she  as
wont, with her good companions, the books.
She heard her father approaching, accom-
paried by Iariot, whose voice always admon.
fished her of his proximity. There was a small
apartment beyond, and into that Mignon went,
closing the door. ' By the time she was seated,
ready to resume her reading, Bellmar and
Pierre reached the library. Madenmoiselle Mig-
non observed that something very unusual
took place, viz.: Mariot shut the door and
locked it, after which she heard him draw a
chair near the writing-desk where her father
invariably sat. . Mignon did not like her posi-
tion. She was forced to be a listener, pro
vided they conversed in their natural tones,
there being no mode of egress save through
the apartment taken possession of.
"You are aware, Monsieur Bellmar, that
this confounded fur company, that has given
us -so much uneasiness, has engaged Ben Brion
for its leader? Brion, you will remember, is
the man whose services we tried to secure ?"
"Yes-the disagreeable news has reached
me. I perceive that our business will sustain
a severer check than ever, Monsieur Mariot."
"Can you doubt it? Something must be
'done," said Pierre.
" Ma foi! we have not ceased to do some-
thing ever since these unlucky rival companies
existed. What new expedient remains ?"
That is a point to be settled by us, and
without delay."
"Ai, my friend, common strategy will not
do with Ben Brion."
" Who knows that better than I? It is for
that very reason that we must take measures
bold and energetic."
M. Bellmar mused.
" We are quite alone, I suppose ?" Mariot
added.
Mignon, who sat directly opposite the key..
hole of the door, was now listening with eager
interest, and without a single feeling of com-
punction.
" Entirely alone," replied Bellmar.
"We must ruin the American Fur Com
pany'!" with emphasis on the word "ruin."
"Be good enough to tell me how ? My strat-.
egical resources are exhausted."
" We must break up and disorganize the
party under Brion."
""You are just as far from the question, Mon-

1

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

17

16

w


THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

eieur Mariot. You do not inform me how this
is to be accomplished."
"By means that may perchance startle
you !"
Mignon shuddered, knowing that something
terrible was in Mariot's mind; she knew by
the tines of his voice.
" We must keep the penalties of the law in
view."quoth Bellmar, wriggling in his chair.
" Law does not reach beyond Fort Leaven-
worth.  We will employ instruments that
laugh at the word law."
" Indians?"
Mit.non made a slight movement.
" Wlkat was that ?" asked Pierre.
. "Nothing; go on ; you would, you say, em-
ploy savages-at least, you mean so to be
understood ?"
" Yes; our enemies-they who take from
me my business, are my enemies-must be
awed, shocked, stunned, scattered, the surviv-
ors driven from the trapping-grounds like
trembling sheep."
Mariot pronounced these words with start-
ling energy, stamping angrily upon the floor.
" There is much evil in that man,".thought
Mignon.,
" Proceed," said the senior.
" I have told you all."
" Foudre!" exclaimed Bellmar, impatiently.
" You have told me nothing I"t
" Leave the ways and means to me, and you1
will have naught to regret."F
Monsieur Bellmar rose and paced the floor.
" I shrink from acts of hostility," he added.]
"I shrink from losing my invested capital,"1
retorted Maritt, in a hard, dry tone, in which
self was uppermost.f
"Such things lie heavy on one's conscience(
as one grows old, Pierre," retorted Bellmar, in t
a deprecating way.
"It would grieve me to be obliged to with-e
draw my capital, and dissolve the old and re-a
spectable house of Beilmar and Mariot." '-
" It would be a sad blow to a man of my
years, wanting, as I do, your youthfulness and
energy."                                 .
" Will you abondon this to me?"I
" Nous verrons !"
"Delay will baffle my purpose ; accede at,
once.".Tt
"You will send agents ?" -t
Doubtless."
" Perhaps go yourself?"n
"It is possible."
" And it will cost?"     ~)
"'A thousand ,dollars."
OSo much ?"'                            o
"The benefits will be tenfold. That com-
pany annihilated, we go on agaia as in old
times. when my father lived."-            't
" What do you propose in relation to s
Brion ?"                                  n
"Pardon, monsieur, but I will not worry j t
you with details. You consent ?"

" You will be careful of human life? Blood
on your conscience will prove a burden."
"Do not be uneasy. I.will play nmy hand
skillfully ; but remember that I do not promise
to do mischief!"
" Well, Mariot, be discreet, and spend money
to advantage.' By-the-way, I have received a
letter front our Indian agent, Fournier, which
I will show you. It is in my pocket-no, it
is in a coat that I took off yesterday. I will
go for it."
" Bellmar is getting into his dotage; he is too
weak, too weak 14 muttered Mariot, the mo-
ment the senior left the room. " He wishes
for a plan of the campaign, but I am not so
stupid as to show my order of battle ; it
would strike him dumb, his nerves are so
shattered."
" Ah i" said Mignon to herself, " you do not
know who heard that remark."
" Once in receipt of my plan, he would soon
betray all to Mignon. Mignon is timid, and
her conscience is as sensitive to evil as inereury
to the changes of temperature."
" Astute Pierre Mariot!" thought Madcmois.
elle Bellmar.
The senior returned with the letter, which
treated, in the main, of affairs of no interest to
the reader ; in it, however, occurred this curi-
ous passage: " The trappers and hunters,
who are daily arriving at the trad img house,
have much to say about that mysterious per-
sonage whom I referred to in a former letter.
He is supposed, by many, to be a celebrated
Blackfoot chief, that bears mortal enmity to all
whose faces are white. Would it not be lucky
if he should cross the trail of the new company,
and give them a taste of his quality ? I am
endeavoring to cultivate friendly relations with
the Blackfeet, with a fair prospect of success.
I think it wotld be well to send out a fresh
stock of Indian finery by your next brigade,
such as glass beads, ribbons, pipes. Also, a
ot of hunting-knives and cheap guns. But do
not be too sanguine about the L'lnckfeet-they
are a wily, cruel, intractable race in every par-
ticular, differing from their neighbors, the Nez
Perces, who are a harmless, honest people, on
whom we can -rely in all pertaining to legiti-
mate trade, but who cannot easily be induced
to act against other companies in turning the
ide- of traffic to our interest "
"Do you know much of this redoubtable
native to which Fournier alludes ?" Mariot in-
quired, with an earnestness that he regretted a
moment after.
" By common camp-gossip only; a species
of information not very reliable, friend Pierre,"
was the response.
"Is he not a being purely of the imagina-
ion, think you-a sort of bugbear, created by
ome vagrant adventurer, to put tongues in
motion that had been too long silent to be par-
icular F"


k
i

,

(.

THE BUCKE)
" It may be thus ; but itis scarcely probable.
Mountaineers are shrewd, and the American
free-trapper has sense, and always understands
what he's about."
"Do the Americans also talk of Redpath ?"
" Yes, mon ani. I conversed with one Buck-
eye, a genuine type of the free-trapper class,
that has a firm belief in such a personage."
" Well, there is 'nothing marvellous in the
fact that an Indian chief should be revengeful
-spurred on, as he may be, by a burning sense
of -wrong."
"It is not that which excites alarm; it is
the i:anner of his venge-ance, the terrible mys-
tery that hangs over his movement, his won-
drous silence and secrecy, his astonishing
power of eluding pursuit, his fearful persever-
ance."'                       ,
"You speak earnestly, Monsieur Bellmar."
" Not earnestly, but to the point."
And then the senior added :
"Our rivals are making strong efforts to fill
up their brigade. They will soon be ready for
the Western trail."
"I must be three weeks in advance of them ;
that is; my agent must. I will dog them with
such influences-"
"Go on, sir."
"As-as shall greatly surprise them," he re-
sumed, in a voice much modified, and with a
smile.
" This is a quiet place to make confidential
arrangements," he continued, looking about
him with a satisfied air. " I may wish to be
closeted here at thi hour to-morrow, to confer
with some good friends of ours. And now I
think I am commissioned to look after our own,
mutual interests. It is getting late-I must
meet an appointment."
The parties arose and left the library, while
Mignon remained in her chair, like' one very.
much startled and confounded. S'he had satis-
fled herself long before that Pierre Mariot was
a man of a low standard of morality, but she
was not prepared to believe him so much a vil-
lain as he had proved himself. He was medi-
tiLing crime-scheming the ruin of others-
planning deeds of blood--drawing rer father
into the vortex of his evil mind.' Ali! Mariot,
your last virtue and your .last chance faded
from the heart of Mignon that'morning. She
scorned, he despised you. when you. left the
house, full of dark devices for the overthrow of
your brother man !
Mignon went to the window, the only one in
the room, and which fronted the street. 'The
sash was raised a little.. .Maiot and her father
had reached thie hall door, and the former was
upon the steps, wvhen she heard him remark:-
" Here comes Brion !"'
Mademoiselle Bellmar cast her eyes down the
street, lie saw a man on hoi'sehack.' He was
mounted on a stout, bay animal that carried,
himself proudly, like a trained horse on parade.

YE RANGER.                            ' 19
Th(y p  entation was striking, calculated to
impress one with the majesty of the human
figure, the noblestrength and spirit of the horse,
and the dignity of both were gracefully united.
" How noble!" exclaimed Mignon, euthusi-
g tically, then blushing at her warmth, she
drew back.
Brion sat firmly and erect, his stalwart pro.
portions seeming a portion of hisglorious steed,
his left hand grasping the rein, his right at rest
by his side, his face a-glow, his bold eyes full
of animation
" A fine picture. Oh, Pierre Mariot, if you
could only look like that I" soliloquized Mignon.
"But that is impossible; only a noble nature
can look noble."
" He reminds one of the gallant caaliers of
the old school," she heard her father say.
Brion was' now opposite the house; lhe raised
his eyes to the window and saw Mignon She
was charming ; and the gaze he thus unwilling-
ly surprised, thrilled him, and made him blush
like a school-girl convicted of a misdemeanor,
Familiarity with Nature in her simplest and
yet grandest form of development had not
blunted Brion's susceptibility to those delight-
ful emotions which the presence of a lovely
woman inspires. For a second, an appreciative
space of time to the soul-the mountaineer was
dazzled, and at a loss; then he recovered his
self-possession, and bowed like a Knight Tem-
pier
Mignon ran from the window in a strange
flutter of excitement, and the sound of latter.
ing hoofs followed her to her chamber,
0 Mignon ['lost and won ina single day!
Three individuals.answering'to the appella
tives of Grenier, Kincaid, and Gardette, were
seated upon a bench not far from the establish-
ment of Bellmar &amp; Mariot.  The first was a
German, the second a Frenchman, the third a
half-breed. Grenier was despairing, Kincaid
angry, Gardette sullen, and all were hungry.
They belonged to the lazier, less efficient, and
most unscrupulous of the mountaineers. Their
present possessions were meagre, having noth-
ing about them but bad reputations. which they
had richly earned, and were -in a fair way to
keep. They had offered their services to vari-
ous fur companies without success, their char-
acters for good-for-nothings being pretty ex.
tensively known and appreciated.
The three unworthies had been about West.
port, more or less drunken for the last three
weeks, during which time they had created a
feeling of universal dislike, not unfrequently in
suiting the wives and daughters of respectable
citizens, besides committing various thefts
to gain the means, probably, of continuing
their debauch. Their resources, as well as
the patience of the inhabitants, were at length
exhausted ; they were warned to leave the place
within four-and-twenty hours, under the dire


THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.            21

penalty of a coat of tar and feathers-a gar-
mnent dreaded alike by every class of the genus
homo. The short period of grace allowed them
would expire in', the morning; .but there were
serious obstacles in the way of their departure.
Let it be understood that they had no horses,
go arms, nor anything like a proper outfit for
the mountains.  They could have dispensed
with the first, had they been provided with the
second ; but guns and ammunition were essen-
tial' necessities, without which they would
starve upon the trail. They realized the dilem-
ma into which they had fallen, and were com-
bining their remaining wits to surmount the'
difficulties that beset them. Various projects
had been discussed, but all in turn rejected,
either as impracticable, or unadapted to the
emergency ; hence their gloomy visages.
"Monsieur Mariot comes this way," said Kin-
caid, whose anger-inflamed eyes chanced to be
turned to the storehouse of Bellmar &amp; Mariot.
" Let him come," retorted Gienier, in a mel-
ancholy tone.
" Let us hold a knife to his throat till he hire
usi," proposed the former.
" That's a fool's advice!l" affirmed Grenier.
" You're always grumbling I" quoth Kin-
caid.
"Let us go to the Indians !" said Gardette.
" And have our'scalpstaken of," added Kin-
caid, spitefully.
" Be still. Mariot has something to.say to us.
I know by the way he looks and walks," said
Grenier.
Pierre Mariot approached the trio with a mien
so guarded that it was impossible for the par-
ties to divine whether his coming boded good
or evil.
"Well, messieurs, when do you start for the
mountains ?" he asked.
Grenier held his tongue ; the half-breed turned
his back to the questioner, and Kincaid said, in
a defiant voice :  -
" When we get ready, monsieur 1"
" Al, I see! you're waiting for an outfit,'l re-
turned Mariot, in a tone that at once reminded
Kincaid oftthe tar and feathers in reserve ; he
clenched his fist, and scowled ominously.
" You'll do well to keep your jests at home"
be gruffly retortrd -
"You are iii execrable temper, my good fel-
low. What will you wager that I will not make
you imore armiable before I leave you ?"
You'd better go.about your business 1"'said
Kinceid perversely.
- Be reasonua'e, and don't destroy the only
chanice let' you .;it hys between starvation and
feathers, as it is now ; but I can set you right
again. if I will "
"We tried yo, aind you refused us-hiring
green hands in irefe rence ; that is why Iadvise
you to leave us."
" But if I have changed my mind?"
" Why, then, speak out, and we'll hear you."

" You are acquainted with the country?"
"I know every yard of it from here 'to Co.
lumbia River. Have starved in the Wind
River Range, feasted at the Yellow Stone. frozen
on the Salmon Mountain, and thawed at Walla-
Walla. So have my comrades,", asserted the
Frenchman, confidently.
"Are you on friendly fb ting with many of
the Indian tribes ?"
" With nearly all of then."
"And can speak their language, I suppose?"
" As well'as my mother tongue."
"I want men who combine shrewdness, ener-
gy, and courage, with-other qualities."
" We have all the qualities you want, mon-
sieur," said Kincaid, modestly.
"I wish you to act as my agents. I shall
pay you liberally, providing you enter into my
service with zeal."
" Agents, Monsieur Mariot!" exclaimed Gre-
nier.
"Agents in reality, if not openly. You know
thereare rival bands in the field*?"
" I get a little light, monsieur."
" I shall supply you with horses and all that
you need. This is no place to give you instruc-
tions, neither is our office ; therefore you will
meet me at Bellmar's, where we can talk con-
fidently, for you must know that this is a mat-
ter of great importance and secrecy."
" We'll be there, but our engagements won't
admit of much delay, monsieur," said Kincaid,
with a knowing leer.
"I am aware of it!" Mariot answered,.with
a smile. " And now promise me that if I pay
you a few dollars in advance, you will not go
and get so drunk that you will not be able to
comprehend what you will be required to lo."
"Oh, sir, as if that were possible !" said Gre-
ner, innocently, casting at the same moment
a meaning glance at his associates.
" You are trusty as steel itself, I've no doubt;
so here is what will put different faces on you."
" That has the complexion of silver, I really
believe, said Kincaid.
Mariot having said all that lie deemed of any
consequence, left the mountaineers to reflect on
the happy turn of circumstances,
"You may be sure something wicked is to be'
done," said the Frenchman, the moment Pierre
was out of hearing.
"Cunning and bad," quoth Gardette.
" Our consciences are tender," Kincaid added,
with mock  anctimoniousness.
" And obliging to a weakness," said Grenier
"Therefore should be strengthened by inter-
nal applications. Come, mounrtaineers, renem-
ber, we are to act civilly and morally, and
not make brutes 6f ourselves. Only think that
Mariot could for one instant imagine we should
get drunk !. Foudre ! were ever men so wrong.
ed 2" cried Kincaid, in better temper.

. CHAPTER IV.
MARIOT MEETS WITH DISAPPOINTMENT.
It was nearly dark.- Mignon was returning
home from a long walk. She had chosen an
unfrequented path that she might reflect with-
out interruption, having much to think of seri-
ously. She found herseli placed in an awkward
position in regard to Pierre Mariot, and it was
of that she was meditating. Voices and bois-
terous laughter reached her ears, assuring her
that persons were near; indeed, two men were
already in sight, and presently a third joined
them. Mignon would gladly have evaded them
had it been possible ; but that was out of the
question, there being no other road, and they
close at hard. She went forward urn.,d.itating-
ly, with what resolution she could command, not
even raising her eyes to the faces of the ill-man-
nered trio, one of whom placed himself so as to
obstruct the way. Rude jests assailed Mignon;
she was alarmed.
aIf the people of the town threaten us, to
repay them we will insult their daughters," said
one, staggering toward Mademoiselle Bellmar.
"'Tis no more than just," cried a second.
"Hush, she is pale-she will faint!" added
the third, sneeringly.     -
"1Oh, how delicate you are, miss. And what
pretty goods you wear ! Dear me, not so fast,
now ; you will deprive us of your company too
soon," resumed he who had first spoken, in the
slow, thick utterance of a drunken man.
" Oh, you are a great deal better than poor
fellows like us. But it is such as we who make
your townsmen rich, and we get for it only
threats and bad words."
Mignon recoiled with a cry of terror, for one
of the villains had the insolence to grasp her
arm, employing language that made her cheeks
redden with shame and indignation. , She- had
the presence of mind to cry for assistance ; and
it came promptly and resolutely. A man whose
eyes seemed to emit lightning, scattered the in-
sulters, and supported Mignon. His presence
was a Gibraltar of strength to Mignon-there
was sach noble determination in his face, such
manliness in his shapely figure. She recognized
the horseman who had ridden so gallantly--
Ben Brion, the mountaineer, whose.name had
been mentioned by Mariot.
Mademoisellewas so pretty, so engaging in

her deportafent, so graceful and warm in til
expression of her gratitude, that the parns
sighed when he left her, regretting that hsctia.l-
ing would so soon take hin from We': p.rt-
from the vicinage of the only woman who it
ever qeuickened the pulsations of his io1, at
hen et.
Pierre Mariot had a long conver-at:on with
Grenier, Kincaid, and Gardette, at the time ap-
pointed. Miss Bellmar was as punctual as he,
believing it not an act of meamifess to hear the
development ofa nefarious scheme for te ijitry
of those pursuing a lawful and honorable busi-
ness.
It would not be edifying to the reader to state
all that was said in-detail ; a few of the most
important points will be touched u pon.
" I think you told me," 'messieurs mountain-
eers," said Pierre, graciously, "that your --u-
gagement would compel you to leave Westport
at an early hour to-day ?"
" We have but an hour-s grace, monsieur ; and
then the canaille of this accursed place will (1r
upon us," replied Kincaid, who acted as spokes.
man for his comrades.
"Not the canaille alone, worthy hunter; for
the more respectable townsmen are much exus-
perated at your free-and-easy manners. I fear
you have acted scandalously, but that is no
business of mine ; it deranges my plans a little,
but-I can get along. Nov, we will to the mat-
ter in hand.  J hope you are sober enough to
comprehend ?"
Mariot assumed a different tone and bearing;
he spoke firmly, determinedly, and rapidly,
keeping his keenly penetrating eyes tixed stetaa-
ily upon his listeners.
" I want men that 'can act discreetly-not
those who can only get drunk and act the brag-
gart and -brawler. If I employ you, and pay
you, you must-do my bidding to the letter, and
without useless questioning. I know that you
are not scrupulous. Beep silent; if you
were honest men, you' would not do for me ;
and if you flatter yourselves that you are such,
you have only to walk out of the house ; for in
that case our negotiations will stop at once. I
want subtle-"
" Oh monsieur, I trust you were not going to
say knaves !" interrupted Kineaid.
* Three subtle fellows, willing to earn their
money according to the wishes of their employ.
er. Now, hear my plan. - You are to start this
very day, for I wish you to be some weeks in


THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

22             THE BUCKEYE RANGER,

advance of the band about to be sent out by the
Armericanm Fur Company, of which Brion is
captain. YoMur1 business will be to vex, annoy,
n'orea'l. deeive, undermine, injure, and if pos.
sible. annihilate the rival enterprise. You are to
op.-rateu Iuo the Indians by truth or falsehood
---just whic  will best serve your purpose, and
hy 1'r-s'-its. You will sour the minds of those
d lsispeed to be friendly, and excite to a greater
d. gree the enmnuty of those already hostile to
a ute mmen.1itiitl your knowledge of sava-
g's you will have no trouble in effecting this.
Are y:n ut.derstamding rime, messieurs ?"
Tu-, p-3-ries aignified that they. were.
"ITu v- i rovings over the mountains, you
o'- duohes- hearrd the irne of Redpath.
Vome, tell ,  i-he truth-is there, or is there
not su.nh itboig,'.,
The sii-browned face of Kincaidl grew a
shade white ; he took his own time to reply,
srpemkiog slowly, and with less assurance.
ited path is as real as you or 1, or Gardette,
or Ctren-i.r, or anybody that lives."
There, you are serious now., And, mafois,
your lips ire pale. I see that youarc not above
the weaktess of superstition. Are the deeds of
this red scarecrow dark tid terrible ?''
"To those w homh e devotes to his vengeance,
yes. liit we never talk much of him when the
other side of the South Pass - at least, myself
dmil companions don't; he is apt to be near
when talked of. We breathe his name in a
whisper on the trapping grounds, especially at
night, when our fires are lighted "
Is it during the night time only, that he
strikes'his victims ?"
At all times and seasons, monsieur."
"And is it true," continued Mariot, sinking
is voice, " that he kills without leaving the
sign of violence on the body ?"
"So it is rumorel, but I have heard that it
is not always the case. But why do you ques
tion me ?'
'-If you are quick at catching an idea, ydu
have already surmised.  If there is such a
character as lRedpath, I wish to unloose him,
like a pierce bloodhound, on the trail of Brion's
band.".
"Ah, monsieur, who will risk his scalp to put
him on the scent ?" exclaimed Grenier, with a
shudder.
"He is said to be a Blackfoot I"
"Yes," responded-Kincaid.
"And the Blackfeet--"
" Are the pests and terror of the trappers,"
the former added.
" But Gardette," said Grenier, and then stop-.
ped, looking inquiringly at the half-breed.
Gardette," repeated Pierre.
"11as lived with them and speaks the Black-
foot language," added Kincaid.
o' Then lie can unchain the hound I" resumed
Mariot, calmly,

" But that, you know, would result in loss of
life, monsieur."
" What do you think. my good fellow ?" Ma-
riot inquired, turning to Gardette
" I prefer to liave as little to do with [ted-
path as possible."
Pierre Mariot slipped some money into the
half-breed's hand, saying
"But you will see if the thing can be done ?"
Gardette nodded.
" Let it be so understood ; and if you are
suecessfulyou shall receive-"
The rest of the communication was whis-
pered, and Mignon did not Iear it.
" We must be off, ' said -Grenier.
" Go to Fort Leavein woi th. and your horses
and outfit shall be sent after you. I will go
myself to give you further instructions. Do you
respectively agree to carry out the spirit of my
wishes?'
"We do ; we will do our best, or rather our
worst. We are yours."
*-Rverything shall be prepared withpnt de-
lay.~ So ibegone, if you would save the suit the
inhirabitrants prouiised you."
Ttole onfrecnice broke up, leaving Mignon to
make what use she pleased of that whicb she
had heard. and to think wlat she might of the
character of Pierre. She both loaatlhed and
pitied the man that could deliberately phin the
destruction of human life  She met him an
hour afterward, pale but caln. His features
were softened by sipiles of aifeeted gaiety-lie
studied to assume his most agreeable phases
and phrases. His playfulness might have been
amusing had it been sincere. Mignon permitred
hi'n ,to exhaust his pleasantries with an ap-
pearance of. complaisance quite at variance
with her feelings, well knowing there was
something more serious behind Monsieur Na-
riot's good humor. le grew' senitimental and
graciously  grave -indications that he w.as
roaring the point.
"In view of our approaching marriage," he
began.
"What did you say, sir?" asked Mignon.
" I was going to observe, that in view of our
approaching marriage-"'
"&amp;Marriage, Monsieur Mariot ? Did you not
say marriage ?"
" That air was charmingly put on, Mignon I
Yes, I said the word you have repeated with so
much emphasis.",
"Please allow me to inquire to what parties
the word 'our' is intended to apply ?"
" To your charming self and your humble
servant, Pierre Mariot," the returned, bowing..
" That is news indeed I How facetious you
are to-day. I have not.seen you so amusing for
a long time."
"It is you who are facetious. it seems to me,
Mademoiselle Bellmnar. Your father and I con-
versed seriously on this subjectlast night ; he

agrees with me that farther procrastination is
unnecessary. You are aware that it was the
intention of our parents that we should be
united when of a proper age. Such a compact
was made when we were but children. I think
my attentions to you have been of a character
not to be misunderstood. I believed that my
advances were received as they were intended ;
that your own sympathies as wellas the wishes
of your father were in my favor, leading you
naturally to expect that the day of our union
must be near at hand ; it has often been referred
to by me in your hearing, as an event long cal-
cilated upon."
."Monsieur 1Mariot, I know nothing of a mar-
riage to take place between you and I," said
Mignon, calmly.
"Mignon, you jest with such a serious air
that you alarm me !" exclaimed Pierre, turning
very pale.
""Be assured there will be no marriage be-
tween us," she added, in the same tone.
.  You positively alarm rue. Your manner
is really chilling. Do you mean to be under.
stood that all is at end between us ?"
" I simply mean to say that I shall never
marry you, Monsieur Mariot."
"Mademoiselle Bellmar ?"
Am I sufficiently plain in my speech to b
apprehended ?"
" You are cruelly plain if you are in earnest,"
he replied.
"I never was, and never expect to bemore in
earnest than at this moment. You are to re-
ceive this decision as final."
"'Oh,I cannot believe this-it is too unex-
pected," cried Mariot, in a hoarse voice.
"Your vanity led you to expect nothing but
success. You were always vain, Pierre Mariot.J
ut, thank Heaven ! I have never offered in-I
cense to your vanity."l
Mariot's phale cheeks flushed when MignonI
poke of his vanity ; the shaft went home. ,
I must go to your father. I must know theI
meaning of this I will beg of him to bring you
to reason."
"Is it my father that you wish to marry,
anonsieur, or his daughter ?"
"Mignon, you are killing me !"
"The gifted and the good dig young."
"What bitterness, Mademo'iselle Bellmar.t
Will you not regret this? .I may lose pa- t
tience, and remorse may visit you when it is
too late."l
' .our vanity spoke then ; but do not trou- 1
le yourself, I beg of you. When I repent my I
present decision, I shall better apprehend your p
mtenae  You vish to insinuate that I shall
sustain a great loss. Believe ne, now, I am  h
perfectly resigned to it !" she rejoined. i
SWhat will your worthy father say when he b
knows your determination ? Mignon, spare s
him such grief, this union has been the dream s
ifhb. ifel"                            t

" Are you then such a desirable son-in-la
Mariot felt himself demolished and prostrat-
ed. His pride was in ruins, but his anger%
streamed like fire above the wreck. He was
astounded and at a-loss. He knew not whether
to retreat or go forward, his fair enemy had
taken him so much by surprise.
" Go, Monsieur Mariot, and forget me. There
is no possibility that my feelings will change.
I refuse you for the best reason in the world.
I do not like you. Would you wed a woman
who makes this confession ?"
"You are jealous, perhaps ?" said Mariot,
faintly.
" There is your unpardonable vanity again.
Lovers only-are jealous, and I cannot in the
nature of things be jealous of a man whose pre-
sence is irksome. It is time this interview
ended. I wish you happiness with one more
like you in heart. Adieu, sir."
Mademoiselle Mignon arose, bowed ceremo-
niously, that is coldly, and left Mariot alone,
who, a floment later, was heard hurrying
through the hall to the street.
A month after the events just recorded, at
the close of a day which had been uncommon-
ly-fine, a man on.horseback approached a suc-
cession of rugged hills and defiles in the vicin-
age of those extensive prairies lying along the
Nebraska River for many miles, the favorite
hunting-grounds of the dreaded Blackfeet. It
would have puzzled a hunter, even, to have
determined whether the horseman was a white
man or an Indian. Indeed, lie could not well
merit the term white, his rough features being
mueh burned by the vehement suns ,of the
p rairies. There was nothing very notable about
his appearance. His horse was a strong, tough
nag, chosen more for his powers of endurance
than for speed or beauty; while the rider and
his belongings filled up the picture of a free-
trapper, very well provided for the practice of
his vocation.
le proceeded moderately, and with much
circumspection, as if conscious that he was in
a situation requiring constant vigilance. Soon
he entered a valley almost destittite of vegeta-
tion, and at that hour gloomy as it was sterile
The, trapper di mounted, after going the dis-
tahee of a humnIrmed rods or more, then turned
to the right into a gully vorn by a stream of
water during the wet seasons, leading his horse
by the bridle. The way must have been well-
known to him, for he went forward with a con-
ident step, though retaining his watchful de-
portment, like oie resolutelv determined not to
be surprised by an enemy. "For the next half
our he continued to advance. frequently paus-
rig a moment to listen. lie stopped in a small
asia or hollow, shut in by trees and rocks--a
pot that might be easily overlooked by a thou.
and men searching for a hiding-place. Near
he middle of the dingle, half-buried in wild


24      -                  THE.BUCKEYE RANGER.                        .,.
shrubbery, there was a hut made of sticks, and came to his side, he relieved him of his burden
covered with bark, and which might have es- and turned him loose. A package which had
caped a less vigilant eye ; toward that humble been fastened to the crupper, he carried into
habitation the trapper directed his steps. ie the but and opened.' It contained various ar-
pushed open the door, and a start of surprise tiles valued by Indians, beads, ribbons, high.
indicated that he bad made a discovery unex- colored stuffs, small mirrors, knives, etc.
pected, and not wholly agreeable. . A dusky  An expression of contempt grew upon the
figure, reposing by a fire that faintly glowed on Blackfoot's face.
the ground, sprang to his feet, and drew his  "These things I have brought from the
hunting knife' the instant the intruder looked distant wigwams of the pale-faces ; let my
in ; but seeing who had disturbed him, returned brother 'take what he likes, and the heart of
the weapon to its sheath, keeping his hand on Beavertaker will grow light again," said the
the 'handle, however, as if not altogether de- half-breed.
cided whether to assume a hostile attitude or U Ravenclaw did not deign to look at the
not.                                 '    goods. and his brow contracted threateningly.
Ravenclaw !" exclaimed the trapper.      " What am I," he cried, in a startling voice,
" Beavertaker !" said the other, in the gut- "that these pitiful trifles should be offered me!
tural tones of the red man.               'Am I a vain squaw, to covet such petty gew-
" Why do you come to the hunting-grounds gaws? You are not wise, Beavertaker, yoa
of the Blackfoot ?" he asked, with a scowl of are not wise ; you do not yet know the soul (fi
suspicion.                                Ravenclaw. He wants no such foolery-he
"I come because my wife is afBlackfoot, and wants but his arms and his horse ; more would
amy home is with her people. Does it'seem  be a burden to hinder his movements. You
strange to my brother that the heart of Beaver- might dazzle the eyes of silly women. with
taker is heavy when he dwells iu the wigwams your gay wares, but the eyes of a true warrior
of the pale-faces ?"   -a:                can look at the sun without being dazzled.
"What is that you say ? Are not your veins For this insult you deserve to die !"
poisoned with the blood of-the white man? Can'  "You are in bad temper, my brother. I will
you belong to the warlike Blackfoot, till you  pack up my goods and go in search of my wife-;
bav bled away the venonm of the pale-faces? andsee if she is also my enemy."'
No. ou will be but a woman among warriors,  " Listen: when the white man wishes to de-
a ehi!id among men," replied Ravenclaw, dis- ceive the Indian, he commences giving him
dainfully.                                presents, and lie ends by cutting his throat.
" Your thoughts are sour, and .your words Wa-wa ! it is these presents of worthless stuff
are bitter. Hear me, Ravenclaw. I have been  that are destroying the red races. Fools are
among the white inen and found their hearts they all who accept presents from the hands
full of hatred ; they drove me forth as if I had  of the ar'fful pale-face. Take them from my
been a worthless dog, fit only to hunger and die sight, lest I go mad and kill you !
on the prairie. I shook my hatchet at them,  Beaver bound up 'his goods, and placed the
and came away with my heart burningfor yen- package out of sight.
geance. I shouted the war-whoop of the brave  "You 'ogt me; but hear what I will tell
Blackfoot nation, and turned my back on them. you, and doubt no longer. A large party of
I said, I will go back to my adopted people, the race you hate are athand ; they are going
and tell them my wrongs, and ask them to lie to the mountains to trap, ' and they have
in wait with me to take the scalps of my ene- brought many packs of goods to buy peltries
mhies. That is what I swore to do, and behold with. I will head a party of ]3lackfoot war
I am here." '      -riors to surprise them."
tavenclaw gave a slight exclamation of, ap-  " That is better ; but Ravencha w always
pi' nation.                               finds an enemy without a guide," returned the
" I came here to-get news of my wife, and to Indian, proudly.
unite myself to her people forever. But the  "Do you longer doubt me ?" asked the half-
hear$ of Ravenelaw gives me no welcome, and breed, calmly.
he tells me nothing of my wife. I have no  "I believe you would destroy when it is your
friends, no home, no nation.  I will go and  interest to destroy."
dwell in solitude with the wild beasts "    " And I have another plan to revenge myself
"Some men have two faces and two tongues," on these people, who are robbing our hunting
said Ravenclaw. " They show one face to the and trapping grounds of game," said Beaver-
white man, and another to the red; they talk taker, in a suppressed voice.
with one tongue to the pale-face, and with the  "Speak."
other to the Indian."'                    . "I will seek for him at the mention of
" I understand ; you think I come to you  whose name the white man trembles - Red,
with a lie in my mouth-with a hollow heart path I".
and enpty hands. But you shall see." "Redpath!" repeated Ravenelaw, with a
IBeavertaker called to his horse ; the beast searching glance at the half-breed.

-THE BUCKEYE RANGER.          25

" Ts the name of Red path strange to the ears
of Ravenclaw ? Has he not heard of his deeds,
and rejoiced that there was one so daring
among the warriors of the mighty Blackfeet ?
Is lie deaf to the fame of the most dreaded of
the red men of his nation ?"
"I know him not." replied Ravenclaw.
'- My brotler's eyes are sharp; he can see a:
great distance. and lie has a cunning undgr-
-standing to comprehend that which is hidden,
and to know the secrets. of his people," con-
tinned Beavertaker, adroitly.
" The tongue of Beavertaker is crafty in the
use of words, and he goes after secrets like a
serpent crawling through the grass. But ,let
him beware; they who seek are sormetim s
found ; they who would guide the vengeance, of
the great Monito sometimes direct the shaft
into their own breasts."
"It is dangerous then, to---"
"To seek the trail of Redpath, or to invoke
the thunders of his arm. He goes where he
will, and strikes because he will ; his secret
will die with him. He will remain as he is,
and no one will be able to boast and say,.* I
have seen him. ')epart in peace, and be not
curious, if you would live to eat the flesh of
the buffaloes that will soon cover yonder
prairies. Keep your tongue fron1 speaking
more than you know, and your ears from hear-
ing too munch.."
Rtavenclaw spoke in a tone and manner that
gave the half-breed a feeling of uneasiness that
he could not entirley conceal, and of which he
felt ashamed.
You doubtless speak wisely, and in a way
honorable to your great nation. I hope you
will aid me to strike a blow at our enemies ;
they are ascending the Nebraska. and will soon
be in the maountains.."
You have just said that my eyes and ears
are open ; they are-you have brought ine no
news"
The countenance of Beavertaker evinced
Surprise.
My brother has been active, then ; for it
will.be at least-a week before their trail will-
pass this way."
" And what is a week's travel by those who

ride loaded hordes and c,eep alonr like snails
There are hlackmfeet braves rinit cain journey
that distance in two. hays, and f-el no weari-
ness  Our people never sleep sounduly wlean an
enemy is near-.'
" Ravenaclaw is called brnve, a sucessful
warrior, and a good counsellor. Wi Iie he
angry if I ask where is the wig wam of the Red-
path ?"
inThe stately Indian darted a stern and mnie -
g look at the ha:lf-breed.
Son of the pale-face and the red !" he re-
torted in tones of authority mingled with an-
ger, "you have- too much curiosity to be a
warrior. What is Redpatli to you? Ie is
naught. He is an eagle upon the mountains.
that stoops not from his 'lofty flight to mate
with meaner birds. He makes a swoop and
fixes his talons with the speed of lightning;
the next moment lie is soaring~ to the sun, or
perched in his eyrie far, far up the inaceeasible
bliffs. If you knew his lodge, if you could
velinb to his high nest, your breath of life
would go out before another moon. Son tf thbe
Frenchman and the Indian woman. I can l i
you to the wigwam of Redpath. By the soul
of Monedo, Redpath will die as lie has lived,
and the eyes of the pale-face shall never ook
upon his grave."
" Be it so, my brother .-Ispoke that li lit
be wiser."
" Wiser! My. knowledge of lednaith is no
thing. I know but his name and the faume o
his deeds. Be not like the young and toolish
who have no wisdom ; but profit by the ex-
amples of mighty warriors and conrering
chiefs. Go ! you will find her you seek with
a bn]d of hunters encaamn.pelyo'ara  vitwrd
the sunset. Go, and be wary: vet e tibit1
your heart is not big toward'tim- rate nw etin
hor."
Beaverttkor-known to the, reader as   r-
dette, at Westport-studied for a few seonnds,
by the fitful fire-light, the caliu anid 1 fry f..a-
tures of Iavenclaw ; then,- wth a e    mn elId
feeling of respect took up his packune of
goods, placed it upon his horse, mounted, and
rode toward the spot indicated by the haughty
Indian.


TkL BUCKEYE RANGER

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

CHAPTER V.

NEW MISPOaTUNES BEFALL BBION'S DAND.

It has been stated that Brion observed that
the youthful adventurer - who has twice
passed before the reader's imagination-had
glanced with some degree of interest at the
.hatchet that he found so singularly. Falling
again in the rear of his band, after Buckeye's
departure, lie examined the weapon more par-
ticularly. It was' small, and finished with
scrupulous neatness, smooth as the surface of
a mirror. It seemed to have but one defect--'
the handle did not appear-sufficiently tight ;
and while noticing the fact, he discovered a
piece of paper between the same and the. eye
into which it was fitted. With the point of his
knife he drew out the paper, and was astonish-
ed to find there was writing upon it, which he
hastened to read.
" du are closely and perseveringly watched by those
who seek the ruin of your enterprise, and who will not
hesitate to employ. the most exceptionable reans to
insure their purpose., Be wary, if you would escape
dangers pre:'ssng and imminent, and plots the most
cunningly devised "                      - ,
- This is extraordinary," exclaimed Brion,
when he had read the foregoing lines. ' I am
closely watched, and am exhorted to be warp.
Who wrote these words of warning? I would
give six months' salary to know; they are
traced with a pencil, and by a practiced hand,
too. A plot ! What does that mean? , It re-
fers to a rival company, clearly. Let me see:
This was written a week ago, andI have been'
so stupid as not to discover it. Twb deaths
have occurred since that time-one last night,
one time night before. But this is a strange way
of comitiutieating intelligence, and uncertain,
withal ; for, had I not discovered the hatchet,
it might have remained there; and the paper
with it, so all this good-will would have been
lost  Who will say that the prairies have not
their bit of rntauce ?  But who comes?: A
stu aigeIr, a white titan, a hunter."
The mttan wno excited the last remark, urged
his horse to a gallop as he drew near; in a few
uititutes he was by Brion's side. The partisan,
while atecting to regard his approach with in-
differene, ,r as a common-place affair, was
really studying his features closely, trying to
recall when and under what circumstances he

had met him before; for it seemed to him that
this was not their first meeting. Having de-
scribed others' of his calling, we have no in-
clination to inflict useless' items of dress and
outfit, while his person anc bearing presented
nothing very remarkable. His face was not
easy to read, but might hate passed very well
for an honest one, market neither by genius
nor uncommon tact. He saluted Brion famuili-
arly, who returned his salutation with civility.
The latter'swish was to know whether the
new-comer was in the employ of a rival com-
pany ; it was a natural desire. He approached
the subject with caution, and his meaning,
without declaring it- directly, was quickly un-
derstood.
" My name," said the trapper, "is Dorelle,
and my business you can easily guess."
" Yes," said Brion.
-" To relieve you from any suspicions that
you may feel, I will inform you that I am not
in the employ of any fur ;company, nor at-
tached to a brigade of trappers."
"A free-trapper ?"
" Thank fortune, yes. I want my liberty. I
should not feel lil     ' -.a man if I we'e under an-
other's control. Give me the mountains and
prairies, and lakes and rivers, with nothing but
my horse and my own will to guide me, and I
am  happy.  Human authority galls me, or
rather would gall me, were 1to submit to it
Oh! I never could be a slave after having
breathed the air of freedom in a country reach-
ing from sea to sea, and provided by nature
witf enough tc supply the simple necessities of
man."
"You discourse like one to the wilderness
born and bred," said the partisan.
" That is true. I was born on the border,
and have been a rover since a boy. The ways
of civilized life in great cities, and busy towns,
do not please such as I. The noise of machin-
ery, the smoke of crowded habitations, and the.
artificialities 'of modern usages, repel me, and
make- me nore in love with my manner of
life," added Dorelle.
" Where have I heard that voice ?" queried
Brion. "Have you crossed any Indian trail ?,
he asked. -
"Yes, of a large body."
"Of what nation ?"
" The most hostile and most dangerous-the
Blackfoot."
" Which way did the trail tend I"

"Off in that direction to our left."
" Consequently, to avoid them-."
"You must keep close to the mountains on
the right."
The partisan did not immediately reply ; he
refl-eted.
" That would seem like rushing into danger.
The Blaclgffet are wont to lie in wait in yon-
der defiles at the base of the mountains," he
remarked, at length, in a careless tone.
"I know it; but it would appear from the
direction of the trail, that they have changed
their tactics "
"That is a very reasonable conclusion,"
quoth Brion. " To-morrow, I must thinkabout
changing our course."
"It would be prudent; but a man of expe-
rience like you, needs no advice."
" Here are my ne ," said the partisan, as
they came up with the rear of that band.
" Make yourself at hom~ne wvith them."
With these words le spurred forward, and
was soon in advance of the foremost of the
party, mounting every eminence; crossing
every brook, and examining the ground where
it was soft enough to, yield to the pressure of
human feet.
While thus actively engaged in reconnoiter-
ing, his thoughts were not wholly engrossed
with his employment; they wandered back to
Westport, to linger about the spot where he
had seen Mignon. The clattering of horses' feet
recalled his mind to the rough region of reality
where his corporeal substance was.
"You see we have overtaken you, captain,"
said a voice.
Brion raised his eyes, and perceived several
of the more thoughtless young, men of his
band, of whom Headley was the leading spirit.
"This is imprudent," exclaimed Brion, very
sharply. "You had orders not to leave the
main body."
" And why is it imprudent?" asked Headley,
haughtily, for he liked not the tone of com-
mand which the partisan assumed.
"It is imprudent, in the first place, because
you had my orders to remain with the brigade;-
and in the next, for'the reason that a party of
Blackfeet are lurking in the vicinity," said the
mountaineer, firmly.
"Oh, is that all ?" exclaimed Hleadley, with
a derisive laugh, in which his companions
joined
"That is sufficient ; I order you to return
instantly," rejoined Brion, with a dignified and'
authoritative air.
f' Are we then under martial discipline ?"
asked Headley, angrily.-I
"You are under my orders, and when I
abuse my power, there will be time enough to
rebel. It is my duty to use my authority when
the general safety is concerned; therefore, go
back."
Three of the refractory spirits reluctantly

turned, and sullenly rode toward the brigile,
which was about two miles in the reir, wile
Headley and two others obstinately kept "un,
disregarding orders.
"Men, you will regret -this!" exclainied
Brion, in a voice free from anger or harshness,
yet decided, and full of meaning.
" We will see, we will see!"'retorted Head-
ley, biting his nether lip with vexation.
The partisan's frank and manly face grew
cloudy.
" These green hands," he muttered to him.
,self, " will bring misfortune upon our enter-
prise. And I an responsible for all that hap-
pens. I was a fool to accept this post, but I
will be obeyed !"
The mountaineer continued his investiga-
tions several hours, with all that tact and skill
experience had taught him. He was thus bu-
sied, when he was joined by Buckeye, whose
presence, at that moment, was desirable, a~s
Brion felt the need of a friend on w hom he
could rely. They rode on side by side, the
latter relating what had passed between him
and Headley.
" There he is, yonder. waiting for the band
to come up," said Buckeye.
" And a few yards before him is one of his
foolhardy companions."
The partisan and Buckeye soon reached the
spot where IHeadley was sitting.
" Where are your friends ?"
" If you have eyes, you will iseaone of them,
yonder, seated on a rock," he replied.
" And the other ?"
"Is still farther ahead, on the other side of
the ridge."
" Very well; you may consider youself
dismissed from the employment of the Auwrt-
can Fur Company, Mr. Headley. From this
moment, you are at liberty to go where you
please."
" What do you say ?" cried Headley, disa-
greeably astonished.
Brion made no answer. and,.riding ,on, re-
peated the same words to the next man, who
attempted to stammer forth excuses, which the
partisan did not wait to hear. When he
reached the top of the ridge spoken of by
Headley, he looked for the third transgressor,
whose-name was Stringer, but Stringer was not
visible.
Buckeye hurried forward, and descended the
slope at a gallop. Before ten minutes had
elapsed, he called to Brion to come on as fast
as possible. Alarmed by the peculiar, tones of
Buckeye's voice, the mountaineer struck the
spurs into his horse and dashed down the
ridge. He found the trapper leaning over the
pommel of his saddle, with pale cheeks and
dilated eyes. Upon the ground, at the fore~
feet of Flash, was stretched the unfortunate
Stringer-he was lying on his back, the blood
had receded from his face, his lips were white,

JI i

26

27

I

t


THE BUCKEYE RANGER.           29

THE BUCKEYE. RANGER.

and he was gasping in the last extremity.
Brion sprang from his horse, but the man was
dead before he reached him.
The mountaineers gazed at the corpse, with
feelings of indescribable awe. There was
something crushing in the thought that a man!
who, a moment since, was full of life and
youthful fire, was now but a clod-powerless,
inert.
Cpime in what form he will, death takes men
by surprise ; he arrives too soon - is always
grim and terrible. Let him come in suddei1-
ness and mystery, when mortals have no inti-
mation of his approach, taking' one whose life
seems good for many years, and he is doubly
feared.
Brion and Buckeye were still contemplating
the yet warm body, when Headley and his
comrade came up -they had heard the trap-
per's call to Brion, and were suspicious that
something strange 'had occurred.  Drawing
near, with downcast, anxious looks, they be-
held the spectacle that kept the tongues of the
mountaineers mute. Headley was astounded ;
his visage grew as pallid as the ashy features
of Stringer. He allowed the bridle rein to fall
from his grasp, and, with glassy eyes and
parted lips, stared at the stiffening body of him
who, a few minutes ago, was riding gaily at
his side. An inexplicable dread fastened upon
his heart-an indefinable trembling seized his
limbs. He seemed to-see an unknown danger
approachingein circles that every instant less-
ened their diameter. In tl  ghastly face of
Stringer he fancied he saw his own fate. Like,
him he should be stricken by an unknown dart,
and like him be gazed at by eyes dilated by
terror; like him be buried on the prairies, and
left to eternal solitude. I-
Birion gave him a reproachful look'-a look
which accused him of being an accessory to his
comrade's death.
"Do you see this ?'' said the partisan, when
the silence had become oppressive.
leadley made an affirmative'sign.
"And do you remember that I warned you
of the danger of leaving the party ?" continued
the captain, with cold severity.
The Missourian sat motionless in his saddle.
"You claim some knowledge of surgery. Do
you wish to examine this body?" resumed
3rion.
Headley shook his head like one who wishes
to say : "I have had enough of-that; it is of
no use."
Buckeye was sitting calmly upon his horse ;
he now darted a meaning glance at Headley,
from under his heavy brows. It needed noin-
terpreter; lie understood its signification per-
fectly. It asked him if he was satisfied-if lie
believed there were others who knew as much
as lie did.
"iHave you an explanation to offer ?" added
the partisan.

" No," replied Headley, "I have nothing to
say.       ..
- ' Not so with me," said Buckeye. "I have
a few words to say, which' may, perhaps, make
our wise friend from Missouri a trifle wiser-if
that's possible. I'm pretty sartain that my
opinion on many pints isnt worih a chare of
powder; but what I know, I'm sureof. Now,
sir (looking at Headley), if you want to discover
whether Stninger died of a disease of the head
or heart, you shall be gratified."
Then addressing Brion :
"I said I had a secret to tell you to-morro-v;
but, seeeing what's happened. I won't keep it
any longer, for there'll never be a better time."
To Headley again:
"Now, sir, examine Stringer's.head.".
The Missourian dismounted, and, resting one
knee on the ground, lifted Stringer's head, and
holding it with the palna Qf his left'hand, seru
tinized it closely.
"I see nothing,"l he affirmed.
"Part the hair, just above his right ear, and
you will find the head of a steel arrow driven
through the skull,,into the brain," said Buck-
eye.*     !"   1'dHa
"It is so I" exclaimed Headley.
"And yet theredis no blood to indicate a
mortal wound," said Brion.
" The hair is saturated very little under-
neath, next the skin," replied Headley; "but
the fact that there is no hemorrhage is easily
accounted for. The arrow-head is not much
larger than a lady's bodkin, and makes but a
mere puncture in the skin; being driven with
great force, it penetrates deeply into the brain,
causing instant paralysis of all the vital func-
tions."
"T hat certainly seems to be an arrow-head,"
said Headleys friend, "but where is the
shaft ?"
" Look once more," added Buckeye.
Headley passed the point of a penknife into
the scarcely perceptible wound, feeling care-
fully over the steel surface.
" It may be so contrived," he said, when ne
had reflected a moment, " that the shaft could
be detached, after driving the point to its fatal
destination."
" Or broken off1" suggested Headley's friend.
"And the shaft - what becomes of that ?"
queried Brion, looking at Buckeye.
" One thing's sartaic; it isn't to be seen in
this case, and it was so in the other, too ; so
we can form what opinion appears most nat'-
ral. I dare say the eunnin' reptile as did this,
broke off the shaft and carried it away, as an
act of bravado, as well as to mystify, and make
things look unace'ountable."
"I will see if he comes and goes without a
trail," said Brion, throwing the bridle-rein) to
Buckeye.
" Remain just where you are, men, that no
new track may be made," he added, commene-

ing a Wej'a .l(eestigation of the ground, which
,ioDtinneu until the entire party came up. The
tbrecisct, hearing what had happened, commu-
s  ated it to those next to them, and the news
ral quickly from mouth to mouth, until all were
:n possession of it. While those in the rear
were pressing to the scene of the catastroS be,
the partisan tpiproacIed Buckeye, and sai , in
a low tone:
"I wish you to watch the stranger who
joined us to-day, Keep your eyes on him when
he looks at Stringer's body, and is hearing the
circumstances that attended his death."
The trapper made a si n that lie' would do
so  Dorehle was in no hurry, being the last to
approach the corpse. When he beheld the
white and rigid face, he shuddered and drew
back, as if the sjuctacle had been more shock-
ing than hle had-anticipated. Buckeye observed
him closely while the story of the steel arrow.
as being told by those who had first reached
the spot. That it produced in his mind feel-
ings of unfeigned astonishment, the trapper did
not doubt---his demeanor attesting it in every
natural way.1
There was now ample subject for conversa-
ion among the trappers -young and old con-
fessing the same interest, the same awe. Stringer
,.as buried as his companions had been, the.
niountain-ers resumtitig their long and weary
man'h with saddened hearts and cloudedfaces,
potn I a  darkly on the fate of Stringer, ask-
tig wIose turn would come next, each mutu-
aity ,aying : - It may be me."
iilidl-y, on whom  the incident of the day
had made a deep impression, rode up to Brion,
the nioment ha opportunity offered when he
could address him alone.
. I owe you an apology, captain," he said,
fr m  fu'ly, and I hope you will be disposed
to overlook what has passed. I acknowledge
ti;t I in rited reproach, and the deatn of
Si iiongi r is a rebuke that will cause me sorrow
so loig as I live.'"
" I restore you to your place, Mr. Headley,
aond a( or friend, too, and will:attribute your
cond'uet to tho ughtlessness, rather- than obsti-
naey," replied the partizan, with that frankness
that clha racerizd limin.--
ieadoley thanked him, and hastened to inform
his refraciory companion of the result of his
apology.
Linin or-1ered a halt in the afternoon, for
the purpose of hunting the buffalo, having
killed but one since leaving Fort Laramie. A
few of tt host skillful hunters were sent out,
the reminiuider of the hand being strictly en-
igiined to keep within certain preoiiicts ; apin-
jimet.ion.i that the leader had no difficulty i en-
forcing, such a dread of their mysterious enemy
had fallen on them. The hunt not pi-oving sue-
cesfuh, it was resolved to continue it during
-the next day ; therefore their encampment was

made to assume a more permament appear-
ance. Being in a dangerous neighborhood, a
corral was .built for the horses, and various
precautionary measures were taken.
As the night drew on, Brion observed that
many of the men grew anxious, even some of
the veterans, so much had the fate of Stringer
affected them. Within the corral, which war
considerably large, a smaller inclosure was
made, by placing the trunks of cotton-woods
horizontally on the ground, one upon the
other, until they reached as high as the breast
of a man of ordinary height. Behind that
shelter they hoped to escape the skill of their
inexplicable adversary. We must, however,
except the partisan and Buckeye from the num-
ber who entertained the idea of passing the
night behind such a shelter. They had either
thoughts.
k' Look," said be to Buckeye, "tthe sun is
sinking majestiially upon the prairies ; it is art
easy to dispel the illusion that it will not rest
on this mighty level, instead of passing to ano-
ther hemisphere, to illuminate other iortals--
to shine on other cities and peoples, iountains.
lakes, and rivers."
" That was my own thought," replied the
other ; " but it would have been morally imit-
possible for a rough old feller like ate to ex-
press it in such a way. Human cretirs may
be constituted pretty near alike, cap'n, as to
the real man, but we'havn't all the same fakilty
of expression. Nov that naturally reminds me
of death, when the sun of life seems to be going
down into the airth, so to speak, to he buried,
and extinguished forever.  To all appear-
ance, what there is of such as you and I cease
to be, is put into the ground to be compounded
ag'in with the eternal elements, to play its part
ii other forms, till time shall- be no longer.
But, cap'n, there may be suthin' that rises like
the sun, like it to shine forever in another re-
gion."
" God knovs how fervently I hope so !" ex-
claimed Brion. "To believe that Stringer has
a consciousness, at this moment, like yours and
mine-as full, as perfect - would abiost con-
sole one for his death ; nay, it would quite !"
"Poor Stringer !" sighed Buckeye.
"I don't know whether to say poor Stringer.
or not !" said Brion, impressively, looking tip
solemnly into the cloudless sky. "By heavens!
lie may be better off at this instant t'hai yen or
I. I sometimes wish that the arrow of Red.
path might enter my own brain, and thus dis-
miss me from care and pain "
"Pain and care Iwhat pain and care should
one like you have, cap'n ? Perhaps you lost
your heart at Westport ?" rejoined Buckeye.
The partisan blushed - an assertion that
nay,- perhaps, appear well nigh incredible to
the reader ; but it has been proved, number-
less times, that the man who can face a bat


au                         THE BUCKEYE RANGER.
tery, or an Indian in his war-paint, has th- foot chief called Redpath.,I have no means what
ability to blush when affairs of the heart are ever -of knowing. Familiar as the name of
discoursed of, and pointed allusions made  .Redpath is to me, I will avow to you that I
"if that be true, she who found itfound aoth  have, from the first, been inclined to consider
ing worth keeping, I fear," he answered   .him but the creation of some wonder-loving
" An honest one, sir, an honest one !" said  brain."    -
.3uckeve.                                    "You feel positively sartin that three of your
" You are getting along too fast, my friend, party have been killed; ' said Buckeye. sarcas-
I have not yet confessed to the charge you were tically, rather, for himt
pleased to make."           .The piurtiaun answered in the ath'iriative, hut
The trapper. declared, that to love a fair added that they night have been killed, not by
maiden was not to transgress laws divine or one savage, but piossilly by thrs-.
human.                                        ' That isn't altogetlh'r probable ; a party of
" The men are gloomy d" said Brion, ab- three would have more diflikilhy in concealing
ruptly.                                    their trail than one, as you'll understand at
"'Tis nat'ral, cap'n, after what's happened.: once, when you conte to think of it.  Agin :
They can't help thinking, that at the end of this sort of tum i,..arione by one who has served
three months- if thing go on in this way -  a long apprenticeship alt it, so to speak ; other-
tlhre won't be many of them left. Each one wise lie couldn't have acquired that awful sar-
says, "I, too, may wake up some morning , id  tinty that charakr-izes him  Depend on't, it's
ind a steel arrow in my head." Now, icha     n an done by a riptile as has follered it for months,
ida s ha,  he-i fairly gespseso    f perhaps for years. growing' more and more
fellel s nind ca'e considered ver ci eerin', acute, ecunia', andl terrible." .
according' to my view of matters gin'rally,   "'Your reasoning is just ; this marvellous act
though you may have different notions, being' of approachingan encampment, this wondrous
better edicated "                         ' power of striking a vicim with a precision
." By my faith !" exclaimed the partisan, that is deadly, and retreating without leaving
"you are about right; the idea of being dogged trail or other sign than a dead body, is really
by a single enemy, and picked off one by one startling, and well nigh staggers belief; but I
at his leisure, is not pleasant.  So far as the am resolved to solve the apparently inexplica-
mere fact of dying is concerned, one could not ble mystery."
choose an easier death ; but people seldom   " Beware 1" exclaimed-the trapper, " beware
reach that period when they are willing to sub- what you do "
mit to even the easiest death .that can be con- 'hat ! does a hiave man as I have consid-
trived. The love of life is strong, and follows ered you to be, bold ! single savage- armed, as
one alike through happiness and misery. Come, it would seem, with a bow, and arrow, in such
now, good Buckeye, tell me if you are your- dread ?" said the partisan
self ready to offer your head to the fatal skill  "Tell me who and where my enemy is, and
of Redath ?"                            I am not afraid to meet hiu ; but it is embar-
" By the beard of Joe Smith,-no ! I prefer i'assin', to say the least, to seek a reptile who
to keep my upper story unbroken, and in a has the fakilty of main' hisselfinvissible, who
condition to be useful. You forget that I have walks round ye without akin' any track, who
a friend to provide for ?"                 kills ye afore yot know he's near, who's off
"A fiend Y" - . ,                       afore you've gasped away the breath of life.
" Yes, and a good one, too ; there he stands, Vliere'll you go to find liini?  Will it be east
yonder, eating grass like Nebuchadnezzar."  or west, north or south, this way or that? You
" Oh I you mean Flash '       .can't tell, because you don't know when you've
"Yes, Plash-a creetur that has all the better found him?  What assurance have ye that lie'
qualities of the human species, with a great won't see you first'
deal more speed.,                            "There aire difficulties.to be considered, and
" HIe is certainly swift of foot," said Brion, obstacles to surmount, but courage and a strong
with a smile.                              will can accomplish what, at first thought, ap-
"TIe name of Redpath has often been men- pears impossible," returned Brion, firmly.
tioned between you and I, and you once did   "If courage and a strong will can do so
me the favor to ask my opinion consarnin' him: much, cap'n, why don't they keep the creetur
now I want to put the same question to you, away from the camp-fires at night? Why don't
for I've observed that you've been non-com- courage and a strong will prevent hun from
mittal and on the fence, as 'twere, respectin' killin' your men ?"
him."                                        Buckeye looked triumphantly at the partisan,
"I will be very frank, Buckeye, and keep who listened with interest to the development
'nothing from you. That we are followed by a of the trapper's feelings, which he was inter-
veiigeful enemy, is indisputable' that this en- ally determined lie should lay bare.
emy is euniuing beyond any I ever encountered,  "Until to-day, we have had but little warn-
I also freely admit; but if it be the famed Black.- ing of the presence of such a foe. The singe-

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.          31

,ar absence of wounds in the two first cases
left some doubt on the mind in regard to the
cause of'their death, and it is only a few hours
since the mystery was cleared up. I shall now
use every precaution to prevent the recurrence
of similar visitations that experience and pru-
dence can devise ; but it is a humiliating thought
that seventy men are forced to extraordinary
measures for protection against a single savage
arm; it shames me, Buckeye, and makes me
doubt that I have passed ten years in the
mountains, where dangers are thick, and skill
is indispensable. If I do not put a stop to this,
the name of Ben Brion will cease to be quoted
as a brave and sagacious man, fit to command
in the most trying emergencies."
" Don't lay it so much to heart, for you ain't
without witnesses that you've been prudent as
a human bein' could be, under the circumstan-
ces. Human foresight can't foresee every-
thing."
"If matters progress. as they have begun,

my witnesses will be dumb ones," said Brion,
with a-smile.
"And deaf, too," quoth Buckeye.
"I think I may trust you I" "resumed the
partisan.
" You can't tell till you try me," returned
the trapper, drily.
"I wish to tell you-move this way a little,
the very person I was going to speak of is
watching us-that Iam suspicious of the' good
faith of this stranger, Dorelle. If you were to
ask my reasons, I am very sure I should not
be able to give them. I shall watch him."
"I'll take him in hand, too, cap'n, and see
what I can make of him. If I discover mis-
chief in him, he'd better be among the Black-
feet or the Apaches," said Buckeye, deter-
ininedly.
" He is tobe depended oh, if ever man was
trustworthy," said Brion to himself, as he
walked about the encamptment to see if all
had been done according to his orders-the re-
mark referred to the trapper.

0


THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

CHAPTER VI.

GOILD-BUNTING IS TALKED OP.

Evening came. The hunters and trappers
were gathered about the camp-fires in groups,
cooking their supper, discussing the ll-engross.
ing subject of the day. Each in turn gave his
opinion, razarded a conjecture, or recited some,
startling tale of Inditm cunning and cruelty.
The young men of the band had less tosay than
usual ; their ardor was cooled ; they fervently
wished themselves within the pale of civiliza-
tion again, no longer finding fault at :he lack
of incident that attended their march.  The
faces of Stringer, Minten, and Townsend were
constantly before then. reviving and 'keeping
vivid the mystery of their death, the awful sud-
denness of their departure.
" It would appear," said Headley, "that we
are destined to fall by the wayside, one at a
time. We shall mar'k each day's journey by a
grave."
'That is true," responded a young man by
the name of Conroy, who but two days before
had coinplined of the monotony of their jour-
ney, and its paucity of adventure.
I wonder," resumed Ieadley, as if talking
to himself, " if we were hired' for the purpose,
of being shot in the head with a steel arrow ?"
The query, though addressed to no one in
particular, caught like a train of powder, just
as it was intended.. The short but expressive
monosyllable " No," made the circuit of tike
group in an instant.
"That is my own opinion," added Headley.
"I have from the firstentertained the idea that
our services were engaged to trap and hunt ?"
"In course," said Conroy, sullenly.
"But it's too late now, I suppose, to save
ourselves. Seeing we must all succumb to the
foul fiend that clogs usgooner or later, I expect
we must make the best of it. It would be well,
however, to suggest to the captain to dig a
grave every night, so that our march won't be
delayed in .the morning. We could then look
in each other's faces and seem to realize that
one of us is actually tremnbling on the boundary
of the other world."
"6God save me from such a realization for

many a year!" e.eiaitnai C(or coy, glancing
around uneasily.
" Oh, it is an ey deatr '" added ller.dley,
adroitly, knowing wtell hc-sa to excite the fears
of his comrades.
"If you covet such a fate, seek it ; but it fills
me with unspeakable dread !" cried Conroy,
with a shudder.
" It is so sudden, tlrrat one has no chance to
repent," said Dorolle, who had joined the
group.   The young trappers looked encourn-
gingly at-their new ally.-
"I wWh we could change our route, so as to
leave this accursed traill" protested Ileadley,
with increasing boldness.
I had thought,' added Dorelle, artfully,
that you were one of the partners, and not an
employee ?"
" Oh, no, sir. I'm under the o lers of Beu
Brion !" said Headley, with a sardonic lath.
Indeed ! that is singular !  I've had ny
suspicions that for hunting was not he real ob..
ject of this expedition," added Dorelle.
" Whatother'object could there i e in view ?
interrogated Ile~o Icy, snapping eagerly at the
bait Dorelle had thrown out.
" It isn't expedient for a man to tell his
thoughts always ; but the noement I saw you
this morning, I said to myself, 'this roan has a
higher object than peltries ahead
The attention of the Ileadley clique was fixed
inquiringly upon Dorelle.
- Foudrec! you are deceiving me ; confess
now, that you have heard of the diEQovery of
gold in the mountains I"
The Missourian's eyes flashed with expecta,
tion.
" Speak low, Monsieur Dorelle, speak low,"
he exclaimed, earnestly.
"I knew I was right," asserted Dorelle, af-
fecting to be elited at his far-siglrtedness.
" You are wrong, sir; we have heard noth-
ing of the discovery to which you refer ; but
you see here a score of good fellows, ready for
any enterprise that promises well, and will r ake
them out of this infernal'region !'
" Not so fast, my friend ! If you have not
heard of Lhe new gold regions, it is best that I
remain silent.. lla fois ! why should I dazzle
you with the tales of a region surpassing in
richness all the wealth of the oriental kings ; it
would fill your dreams with extravagant incon-
gruities, and destroy your peace when waking."
" You excite my curiosity to the highest do.

Ae
ntj
0
L31

83m

A


HE BUCKEYE RANGER                3

gree, Monsieur Dorelle. Tell me of this land
of yellow dust Is it a taking known to all, or
is it a secret faithfully kept by a few ?"
'It is known only to a certain number of
French voyageurs and hunters, who keep it te-
naciously. It was only by accident that I got
possession of it."
Headley rubbed his foiehead, and fidgeted
about-nervously.
" Will you allow me to ask if you have any
intention, of turning this important affair to
your own advantage ?" he inquired.
" Selfinterest, I believe, is uppermost in the
human mind, with very few exceptions. Like
others, I am striving for a living, working dili-
gently with my head and hands to accQmplish
, my purpose. Would it not be natural that I
should think much of what Ihave been telling
you ? You will say yes, like a reasonable man,
and be right, too ; for I have thought of this
euhject, day and night, for weeks. There are
difficulties to conquer, obstacles to surmount,
dangers to meet ; but men of courage, determi-
nation and perseverance can overcome all.
What is there that man cannot do when the
motive is powerful and the will strong? These
mi nies are situated in a dangerous neighborhood,
farther from us than the ground already travel-
ed, in a different direction from our present
route, through the countries of savage nations
-the Utahs, the Navajoes, the Pimos, the Ma-
ricopos; and lastly, the famous Apaches."
A cloud of disappointment passed over-Head-
ley's face-the distance, and danger startled
him, and depressed his hopes.
"You are speaking of that region lying be-
tween New Mexico and the Great Basin-the
country of an extinct nation-the Aztec ?" he
added.
" Yes, the land of the ancient Aztec, traces
of whose art and industry yet remain."
" Have you ever. been there, Monsieur Do-
relle?"
"I have passed months there; traversed its
valleys and mountains, seen its rivers, gazed
with awe upon the Casa Montezuma."
"I imagined that was a fabulous fabric, ex-
isting in the minds of credulous people."
"Ah, my friend, you see before you a man
who has acrtially seen the Casa Montezumna-a
mighty. hut still grand ruin, where the great
king, whose name is yet spoken with reverence
by the native, once dwelt in barbaric splendor.
The sight of that crumbling edifice, which
seems to connect the past with- the present,
produced emotions which I cannotdescribe It
brought to my vision the phantom past, ven-
2rable yet grim ; grey, yet gloomy ; silent,-yet
speaking a language not to be misinterpreted,
telling of enjoyments gone, glory departed,
pon er decayed."
Dorelle spoke with apparent enthusiasm, and
was now the central point of attraction to the
wondering group. The men gathered round

him as if he were an oracle, unlocking the past
as well as laying open' the future.  One who
has the faculty of making others believe that
he has heard more, seen more, and knows
more than his auditors, will always stand, in
their estimation, like Saul among the pro-
phets.  Thus it was with Monsieur Dorelle t
he was the hero of the hour, the marvel of the
inexperienced and sanguine, wlho'sat that night
at the camp-fire of the partisan.
" A vast region of ruins and hidden wealth
is that country," added Dorelle.  "The trea-
snres of an extinct race are concealed ingen-
iously beneath walls now crumbling, and
buried in earth, now overgrown with rank
weeds, with the mezquit, the pa'rasitie vine,
the wild sage, and the dwarf pine. Foudre ! it
sets my blood in a hot fever to think of it. A
few hardy. adventurous men, a little faith, with
boldness and perseverance, would suffice to ac-
quire those riches. I have sought such per-
sons; but, upon my honor. messieurs, I can-
not find them--or rather, I cannot make them
have confidence in the treasures of that coun-
try."
" You shall soon cease to complain, Monsieur
Dorelle 1" cried Headley, looking at his friends.
"Here are those who have not only faith. but
resolution. Discontented with their present
circumstances, they wait but an opportunity to
change their course and their prospects. Tell
me, sir, can the dangers you refer to be greater
than that strange fatality that now follows in
our trail like the Angel of Death,:transfixing one
and another with his dart ?'
A visible tremor shook Dorelle's person.
" Not half so fearful " he replied, in a voice
sunken almost to a whisper. "I can conceive
of nothing more diabolical than the systematic
killing of this savage or devil, or whatever he
may chance to be.  Being ntrally supersti-
tious, I acknowledge that 1 have much difficul-
ty in persuading myself that this pathless,
trackless power is human. Ah,messieurs. they
may call him Redpath, if they will, but to ine
he is a demon."
"That's what I say 1" exclaimed Conroy,
striking his right knee violently with the cor-
responding hand, to give proper energy to hi.
words.
"And I, also," said Loretto, a Mexican, and
Violette, a Creole, and half a dozen others.
This is gratifying !" exclaiimed Dore lie. "I
expected to become an ohje-et of ridicule among
you, after making such an avowai; but I am
agreeably disappointed. I am a Catholic, rues-
sieurs, a staunch believer in the devil, end that
the devil sometimes assists his instruments in
the flesh."
"No doubt of it I" muttered Loretto, erosss-
ing himself.
" My lads," said Headley, " what say you to
turning our footsteps toward Gila River. in
search of treasure ?"

33


34                         THE BUCKE
"6I care not whither we go, providing we but
change our course," responded Conroy,, and!
several others.
"Will you lead us there, if we can enlist
enough in our interest to make the expedition
promising ?" asked the Missourian, again turn-
ing toDorelle.
Gladly I" he answered, emphatically.
"Who will go ? who will go ?" cried Head-
ley, with enthusiaaticE eagerness.  Come, let
those who will go, speak-and speak in ear-
nest!"
Ten persons, comprising all in the group, in-
*tantlysignitied their willingness to follow Do-
relle, and desert lrion.
" Warn them to be cautious, and not let their
intentions be known," whispered Dorelle to the
Missourian, who immediately gave instructions
to that effect, which they promised to observe.
-One thing we have overlooked ; we need
an putflt to undertake such a long and, trying
expedition ; all these things around us, we must
bear in mind, belong to the American Fur
Company, and not to us.',
"I can assist you somewhat in regard to
that," said Dorelle.  "I have a cache, forta-
nately, pro ided for this very object."
"Iif we were not where we are, I should cry
' three cheers for Mionsieur Dorelle," said Head-
ley, joyfully. 'Nov, my friends, fortune and
ad venture are before us," he added, with an
enthusiasm he did not attempt to disguise, and
,which his companions shared.
Buckeye, during this conversation, was sleep-
ing (or seemed to be) on a pile of packs and
saddles, a few yards distant.; his proximity was
either not known or not cared for. Flash ap-
proached his master. and smelled round him,
as if to assure himself that he was there, and
his footsteps had the effect to arouse him. He
arose to his elbo'w,rubbed hieyes, then spoke
to his horse. and finally walked to another part
of the'encampment. '
Brion. meanwhile, had left the corral, having
evensuch directions as lie deemed necessary
or the safety of all. The fatality attending his,
'march weighed heavily upon .his mind.  As
captain, or partisan,'lhe was responsible for the'
safe conduct of the party to the trapping
grounds   There were accidents and contin-1
agencies against which he could not guard; but
how should he nike it appear thus to his em-
iuloye rs? W would not his leadership be faulted
bythose whose pay he received ? Would they
not call hie courage and perspicacity in ques-
tion, when it was kn"wn that their enterprise
was in danger of total failure through the agen-
cy of a single savage, armed, as it would seem,
'With a bow and arrow ?   The partisan was
teady to pluck out his hair with vexation. As
he had stated to Buckeye. lie was mortified and
humiliated beyond measure. It made his
oh-eks redden with shame to anticipate, even,
bt ig thought weak and pusillanimous.' He,

YE RANGER.
believed it would certainly be said that he was
wanting in energy, promptness, and foresight.
What a thing to be said of Ben Brion-a man
who had been on the trail ever since he left
school, a mere boy !
He paced slowly about the encampment, far
enough from it not to be seen.,
" Perchance," lie said, to himself, " my own
brain may be pierced by the shaft of this se-
cret foe. Be it thus; I alone will expose my-
self to his aim this night. If he has the temer-
ity to approachone whose eyes are quick tp
trace a trail, and whose ears are educated to
hear an. enemy, let him look to it; lie may,
perhaps, regret his boldness ! Alt! I am for-
getting his fatal-skill-his deadly cunning t"
The partisan sighted, and thought of Mignon.
" It might have been-it might have been ! "
he added, in a low tone. that savored much of
sadness. What it was that mightt have been"
he dic, not say, but instantly shaking off his
dreaminess, began to act the keen and watchful
scout, a thing which a sojourn of over ten
years in the mountains had rendered easy, and
which, hitherto, had been attended with a kind
of pleasure ; but this was before lie met Mig-
non, and lost his heart-since which event he
had experienced less happiness in the practice
of his wandering trade. Mignon followed him
everywhere ; Mignon was tireless it pursuing
him ; Mignon was with hint in his dreams;
she was a fair, but ever-present spirit, that
could not be laid.
The realization of all this revealed the moun-
taineer to himself in a new light. He had not'
supposed it quite possible that lie could be cap-
tivated by a pretty face, and so enslaved by the
charming conqueror ; it was a new revelation,
a hitherto unread page in his own character.
He believed his passion hopeless ; and not only
hopeless, but foolish extremely. He did not
expect to see Mignon again,and it was madness
to cherish her resemblance so fondly.
Althottgh reflectionslike these went teeming
through Brion's brain, it did not'divert him
from his duty ; he kept his dangerous vigils
with firmness and skill, exposing himself thus,
voluntarily, to be faithful tp his trust, and save
those under his direction. Men are apt to
think soberly and rationally in the silence and
quietude of night, and it was thus with the
partisan. He asked what or who it was that
he feared ; or, more properly, that threatened
thedestruction of his trappers and hunters. He
had heard the name of Red path spoken often
in the moputains, when encamped by lonely
streams and distant solitudes; sturdy veterans
had recounted his deeds, while friendly Indian
told of his cunning-attributing his success to
the interposition of Maehbinito, te had spirit;.
but how much of this did he credit? What hind
happened under his own observation to prove
that these tales were not without foundation;
that there was really truth in what mountain

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.                                  35
rumor had been telling so long in the defiles or Beavertaker, as we lall pr -f r to call in,
and passes ? Brion considered the subject in honor of his Indian relate ives.
from various points, cofncluding this ordeal of' "Ah !" exclaimed Brion, ngrn-an innoeeng
self-examination by confessing a belief in Red- exclamation that he was in tie halit of using
path. It was midiiight when lie reached that when surprised; for the parisa neverre
ultimatum. The stillness of the night had re- ployed oaths, even when exeirtd
gained unbroken, save by the bark of the prai-  Mariot and Beavertaker advanced and met
ie- dog, or the howl of the wolf-those con-  "I have many things to inquiry , ahout," said
stant attendants of the mountaineer in hzis the former. "[low do you ,ucceed with the
lengthened pilgrimages across a mighty coun- Blackfeet ?"
try ; where, in the revelations of years, human  "At first I was looked upon with distrust,
cities are to rise, and the genius of civilization but my wife at length restored confidence; eq
is to walk with foot untiring.            you see it is a good thing to have an Indian
Thapartisan stood with his head thrown for- wife, though one he but half an Indian,"
ward, all his senses awake to detect the slight-  " Well ?" said Mariot, impatiently.
est sound. An owl emitted its ominous cry,  "A party of one hundred young warriors
which echo caught and prolonged in a series of are already on the alert, and it will be strange
mournful wailimgs, which died away in the indeed if--"
valley and far-off passes.;   I        -    The remainder of the sentence was spoken it
Ali. exclaimed Brion, without changing a tone so low that Brion could not hear it. lie
his position,                             crept nearer.
He waited for something-apparently the re-  " Be sure that you make no mistake, for my
petition of the cry-but it came not. He cast own party are encamped in a valley not far be-
his eyes toward the .encampment; the moon- low us."
beams were lying tranquilly upon it; the stars  " Diable, that is bad, for all is fish that
twinkled overhead serenely, as if bidding the comes to their net-the Blackfeet I mean. . If
weary to forget care and sleep.           they should strike their trail, I could not re-
Brion's attention was yet fixed e- the en- strain them. I have seen Ravenclaw, a chief
campment, when he saw a man leaving the cor- of great consequence-; but he dislikes nie, and
ral. Had he walked out boldly and carelessly, is too proud to be advised or led by one with'
the partisan's suspicions would not have been white blood in his veins I spoke of Red path ;
aroused ; but lie stole out as a thief mightleave but my curiosity provoked him. He frowned
the scene of his depredations.            and looked dangerous, and in a terrible voice
"Honest then do not move in that way," told nie ,to begone, and ' put a bridle on my
muttered Brion.     "-                    tongue ; since that, I have not dared to speak
At that moment the owl hooted again--more thename of Redpath."
loud and shrilly than before. Clear of the cor-  "Nor is there need ; he is already upon the
ral, the man advanced cautiously toward the trail, doing fearful work. Three have been
spot where the mountaineer was standing ; the stricken, and more will follow. Discontent is
latter instantly changed his position, screening in the camp-the expedition will fail."
himself behind the trunk of a cypress. It was  "Ah !" said Brion.
Dorelle who approached, as Brion very soon  "Did you hear anything?" asked Beaver-
discovered,                               taker.
" Yes, Monsieur Dorelle, you are the one I  Mariot said no.
intended to watch," thought the hunter, as the  "Diable I Can this be true, Monsieur Mar
Frenchman passed his hiding-place. Brion fol- riot?"
lowed him toward the Wind River range, from  "Can what be true ?"
the margin of the prairie upon which hisc amp  "That Redpath 'is on the trail of Brion'.
had been pitched, into a tract ofcountry cut up brigade "
by gulleys, broken by sharp hills, covered with  "Mon Dieu, it is a fact ! He kills with a
pinon, stunted oaks, and aspen.           steel arrow, which pierces the brain. It is ter-
Dorelle stopped and remained motionless for 'rible, but does my work ; it cripples the power
several minutes. Presently the owl hooted- of that accursed company tiatthreatens to ruin
Dorelle barked-like a prairie dog, and went on. the house of,Bellmar'and Mariot."
The cry of the owl came from a canon, not far  "tYou run some risk yourself," said Beaver-
beyond: it was toward the canon that Dorelle taker.
hastened.',                                 "I know itt therefore my stay with the
"Now," mused Brion, " we will learn what band will be short. I have already sprung my
this signalling is for."                 mine on the discontented ones. I have worked
The ground between them and the canon on their fears and their cupidity. I shall take
was soon traversed. Dorelle barked again,'and away at least a dozen of his men, which will be
the owl hooted but a few paces from'him.  a severe blow. Meantime, have your warrior
"Is it you, Gardette ?" asked Dorelle. .  concealed in the canon which you named where
"I&amp; is I, Monsieur Mariot," replied Gardette, I saw you before, and-"


THE BUCKEYE RANGER-            37

36

TlIl BUCKEYE RANGER,

'I  titr~tndittt.'said the  half-breed.  i had  communication  with  Captain  r s hand,
""Tha- have some good horses--a fact which  and on several occasi ofs has ataniirest- } e
it would be wvllt olet your red devils know." eire to visit the camrp of  r riva ;
."jThe shall be'toler." replied Beavertaker. has been so closely watched, that ae ina the
"The may, perchance, cache some of their instance I have named, I io not t hiaklie
griods ?"                        beena able to do munch mrischaief, if such' was li
We will open the cache."               intention."
"They, possibly, may wish to fight?"        Brion did not say " A-i" hbt he thoughtit
" We will fight them, monsieur."          which answered his purpose.
" Forslre ! that is as it should he. Now I  "An iaefvrner atong your men may do i-
most, see my band of trappers and hunters."  calculable injury," said \lnri t, earnesl.lid
'~,Dd yo com  wit thea ?'"'I'is is not all, Mottsieur Mariot; it. is said
"DidNo  emeith a tco hany of United States sol- by s)me in canp that this youth is a wotan."
diers, who were sent to Fort Laranie. I found  "      -able!" exlaiawed Mtrot.
Kincaid, who bore me company till this morn-  " Al" said Ba-iota itPwhisper.
ing-or, rather, till yesterday morning, as it is  " A woman? " a tded Pierre.
now past midanighat -and by whose means I   6 A woman !" repeated C lhird. mnaog
havesteld conruiati-on with thecaptain of  " What the devil could sind a woman among
my baiad. I   all nieetoincacaid at the Red you I" asked Mariot, atgrilyu ;.
Butles, where he is, at this moment, probably,  "I amay Iave beet lov  of adventure ; it .
awatitinrg me with two horses."     .ma                n h   b   i   Calard thiseis.e..t"i
After further conversation, Pierre Mariot left " A woman ove      ,        .
the canon, followed by Brion, who felt, too romantic."
much interest in his movements to dismiss him  -nemedber, that it isfast to be known that
from furthe- espionage. Kincaid was with the the youths a wonan,jand within either sh is
horses at the specified, plaiee, anad the worthy as love, before we cana judge if things ate gauew-
pair rode away together. Fortunately for the lig romantic."
partisan, the -ground was of such a nature that  "By vhat name is this youth called "
thaey could noet proceed very fast, so that lie  "Cr-evier."
bept in sight of themawithout muoh exertion.   eWhatishis deportment, generally"
They consversed but little. anad Baiont could not  " He is singularly lresived -tu holds lisrrelf
beat-what they said   They finally reached  aloof from the ur, loves solitude, a dis
the valleyy near which Ieavertaker found   companion is a colored raamt, wtho ater lratini
Ravetclaw, as related in another chapter. ikehis shadow, treating him with very great
Euterinag it, the mountaineer saw the fires of deference.   mt
sn encampment. The camp was large, ex-        "T   the colored nian is fis servant, and ap-
tending some rods along the valley, numbering, peared with him in the first instance?"
he judged by a casual survey, one hundred per-  "eYes." aS
sons, or even mote.                          " Wrat was hais.stensible object in attackra
The horses and pack-mies of the party    himsa If to your party .'
were side-lined, and quietly feeding within  " To join his father, he said, wh las a ti-a,-
eigty  -rds of the band ; and it was there ing house on the Yellow  ione. Fearu that
that Marit stopped, sending forth Kitcaid lie tight be a spy it thi service of- te Att--
to request Captain Calliril,, thse leader, to can Fur Company. I have kept a cunstatnt watch
conic to "Lim. While Pierre was waiting, orahats moveentIts
Brim placed him in a position to hear to the  I must see this Crevier; do me the favor to
best aedvanrtage, with the least datnger- of- dis- ask ham to come here."
r    T     rival patsancame, when the  Crevier soon appeared, followed by a stoat
discussed by the half-breed. Those topics     Briom  recognized his youthful visitor, and
having been duly considered, Callard broached  aegaetted more tha  ever his utl ei dy ss-
antothier-, whlicha bad the merit of novelty, and  1ajcios t5Sa th~e time of thaeia fa-st aneetig. lie
interested Brion equally as tch.,       looked upon lais "comely face and slather fig-
"In tee is one circuslance towhich I must  re with new interest, doubtig not but a wo-
Sall your attention," said Callard. " A youth man's heart was beating beneath that reasculinu
Pined us at Fort Leavenworth, whose conduct garb.
been suspicious. Once, certainly, lie has -

5

CHAPTER TI.
IMPORTANT DISCOV2'A'AS ARE MADE.
ierre Mariot had. Erniounted, and was
standing with his righ'tsrm on the saddle, his
face partially concealed from the eyes of the'
approaching youth by thehorse'shead. Crevier
advanced hesitatingly, the negro pressing closer
to him.as he drew near. The partisan was ner-
vously anxious to obtain a fair view of his fea-
tuaes-a fact ehl aing an niportat change in
his feelings since the night Crevier sat by his
lonely fire.
"It is, indned, a woman," he said,-nentally.
Mariot ws.u no less anxious to see the youth,
and mark his bearing.
"Well, shr," said Pierre, abruptly, "I have
sent for yiru to ask a few question concerning
your fatha.r's trading house on'the Yellow Stone
tiver."
C'revier recoiled at the sound of Mariot's
voice, and was much agitated. The negro
whispered to him, which in some degree re-
stored his self-possession.
The partisan noticed that Mariot evinced
surprise, which betrayed itself in his tones.
" Why do you wish to question me ?" asked
Crevier, with some trepidation. -
"For the object I have stated."  -
"What if I refuse to answer them Y" Crevier
resumed.
" shall be obliged to compel you, possi-
bly"    -   .i .     e
"'Member   aichil    am  here l" said the
Afaicans to Crevier-, looking menacingly at
Mariot.r
"Let that nigger be silent !" added Mariot,
sternly.
"He has a rightto speak, I think; he is riot
in your em ploy, and therefore not responsible'
to you, but to myself alone," continued Crevier,
with spirit.
"1Dat am 'zeetly it !" quoth Bialaam, whose
taue hnad the mertit ofbeing scriptural.
vCaptsin Callard, will you rap that nigger
over- the head," said Mariot.
' apttein Csllaid manifested a disposition to
r   un ian 'r (over the hand, bt that nigger
rdrrbaled a very large fist and held it- so Callard
conid see'it, which had the desired effect to re-
strain his enthusiasm.
Do you knov,  ir," Mariot continued, ad-
dressing Crevier, "that I'm disposed to Con-

sider you a spy in the employ of the American
Fur Company ?"
"You are at liberty to think so," was the
quiet rejoinder.
"Captain Callard, it'will be necessary that
this young man be severely punished, as an
example to others."
"That is my opinion, Monsieur Mariot."
The partisan was observing Mariot as well as
his position would allow, and plainly perceived
that he was endeavoring to terrify Crevier and
throw him off his guard; but if that was his
intention, he filed--the youth remained un-
daunted.
a "How  are spies usually punished, cap
tain ?" -
"Oh, with death, monsieur, always"
" That was my impression. W ha is this
black man's name ?"
"Bal'an," said Callard.
" Well, Balaam will have to suffer with his
master."
In answer to'this consoling information, Bas
Iaam looked at the moon, and winked assidu-
ously.
"Leave me a few moments with this young
man, captain, snd take the nger with you."
" Come, Balsam," said Callard.
"I stays with massa, allers," replied Balaam,
firmly.
" But I wish you to go," said Mariot.
"An' I  wish to stay where I is," returned
B~alaam, pertinaciously.
The captain approached him with the inten
tion of laying his right hand upon his shouklet
to lead him away; but Balaam assumed such
a belligerent attitude, that he deemed it pru-
dent to foregothis purpose, and walk off with.
out him.
"This is all very strange," said Mariot, when
the captain was out of hearing.
" What do you refer to ?" asked Crevier, in
a faltering voice.
"It is useless to wear the mask longer, Mad,
emoiselle Mignon."g
"My secret is discovered, alas I" cried the
youth.
" Oh, it required but a glance to penetrate
your disguise.q He that loves has sharp eyes,"
Mariot rejoined, with something of triumph in
his manner.
"Let me entreat that you will not betray
me, Monsieur Mariot?"aid Mignon, in suppli-
cating tones.
" Ab, Mignon, had it been for my sake. I
should be the happiest of men ; but I dare nos
flatter myself that such is the cace I" said Pierre,
softlyv.
"Far his asket" muttered .Brion.
"s Do not flatter yourself too much, mon
sicur."
"Then you had another object in view ?"
"Your vanity is without parallel i"

''I

'I

!

f


38

TIE BUCKEYE RANGE.

"You persist in averting that you have not
regretted-that is, that you have not changed'
four mind in regard-"
" To vour proposal I"
"Yes."
shouldud hate myself if I had no nobler ob-
ject ini view, Monsieur Piertre!"!
' And very prrp)erly," woo, quoth Brion, to
himself. whose heart was beating violently.
"DiableI  You are the same!     T had
hoped-"             *
..That I had repented ?"
" Precisely."
" But you see I have not?"
"Do 3 on know, Mademoiselle Bellmar, that
this frankness may injure you?"   ;
"Exphain."
"Do you not perceive that you are in my
power?"
 Oh, you are there !"
- Yes; 1 command' here. I sued at West-,
port."
" I forgot. for the instant thatI was talking
to a villain," replied Mignon, with dignity.
" Excellent," quotli the partisan. "She has
him there !''
"M giotn, reflect upon yoursituation. Have
power to protect you-to keep your secret, to
preserve you trom ridicule."
"And if you were a gentleman, you would.
do so unconditionally."
That your conduct has been bold and un-
maidenly,'I think you must own; with such a
precedent before rme, I may venture to be bold
and unmanly. What have you to answer to
such logic "
"Unmanly you are ; but if by boldness you
mean physical courage, I should say you will
never be bold."
" Be sarcastic, if you will; yet it seems to
rime that we meet under circumstances in which
you would do well to abate your pride and
hold hurnbier language. You are at present so
situated, as to be under my authority."
-I do not acknowledge your authority. You
cannot, without an unwarrantable usurpation
of power, 'restrain my actions or control my
movements."
" Your personal comfort shall be attended to
is far as my means will allow, and you shall be
treated with respect by my men ; but you must
know that, you are not at liberty to leave the
party."
"D are you thus presume to take from merny
freedom? B,' what right, Monsieur Mariot, do
you thus assume authority over me ?"
" By the right of might."
"That is well answered ; but hear my pro-
test. I will not submit to your tyranny. There
must be men of honor in your party. I will
tfrrow myself upon their generosity; they will
preteet me."
-' These men are in my pay."

" And my father's, too ; you forget that you
are the junior partnerr"
" I remember everything that I wish to re-
member, Mademoiselle Bellmar."
'A rare faculty."
"In the name of all that is wild and marvel.
lous, tell me your motive for unsexing. your.
self and running such a quixotic career ?"
" That is a secret of my own keeping, for-
tunately."
"Your motive must have been extraordina-
ry. Your father will lose his reason when he
hears of this ?"
"God avert such a calamity !" exclaimed
Mignon, with fervor.
"You do well to invoke the name of God
after committing this.fatal error. You should
have reflected anddeported y ourselfas becomes
one of your sex and age. But this mountain
pilgrimage, I'll wager my reputation, is all for
love!"    ,.
"Don't wager your reputation, Monsieur
Pierre-the stake is too great l"
" You sustain your part bravely, I'll admit ;
but be assured I'll probeyoursecret to the bot-
tom, , Ah, Mignon, the time will come when
you shall-redden with shame at the sound of
my voice, it shall so remind you of your folly.",
"It remninds me 'of everything absurd at this
moment."
Balaam rubbed his hands and laughed. Ma-
riot bit his lip with vexation, and called Cal-
lard, who was waiting his pleasure at the near-
est fire.
He came, and with him two persons-Gren-
ier and Kincaid,
"Men," said Mariot, "you are to watch this
youth, this Monsieur Crevier and his servant,
and see that they do not leave the party. I
have special reasons for wishing them to remain
with us."
Callard bowed and smiled.
" Captain," said Miggon, gently, "1 hope we
shall be friends ?,
'"I-I trust so," responded Callard, consid-
erably embarrassed.
"Here is my hand, captain," she added, ex-
tending that little member, with charming
grace to the. leader, who could not refuse the
tempting offer ; while Pierre beheld the de-
monstration with ill-concealed anger and jeal-
ousy.
. " And yet, mad-Mr. Crevier, I mean-I ex-
peet I shall be obliged to restrict you to certain
limits ; but my authority shall be mildly ex-
erted, believe me."
" Beware, captain," said Pierre, with a fore-
ed smile. " You're upon dangerous ground.'
Mariot had advanced a little, and now stoot
two paces in front of his horse, with the bridle.
upon his arm. Callard, Kincaid, and Grenier
were at his -right, at the distance of three or
four yards, while Mignon and Balaam were on

I

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

2

the left. Brion occupied a position to see the
paties very well. What had just passed be-
tween the captain and Mignon did not escape
his n" ice, ut gave a painful ensation, which
was new to him. Possibly it was for Callard
that she hal left a happy home to tempt the
dangers and hardships of the mountaia. Al-
though the 1d a was unpleasant-for a moment,
he really en vied the captain.
Fortunate man I" he murmured. " Fortu-
nate man; you have pressed that little hand I"
The partisan's brow was clouded; -sorrow
and indignation were contending within. At
"ii  "nteirt, his limbs seemed losing their'
stirength; at another, he appeared to be suffo-
eatmavwith some new malady that pressed his
heart froru his chest to his throat. He bent
forward that not a word might escape him, so
intensely interesting were the developments.
Mariot turned to Grenier, and said
"I suppose you are ready to render an ac-
count of what you have done?"
Grener was about to reply, when some ob-
ject wikistled through the air. Grenier threw
up his arms, rolled his eyes wildly, and fell up-
on his face. There were simultaneous Cries of
astonishment., The long, smoothly-wrought
shaft of an arrow  protruded from  Grenier's
ead.
Mariot proceeded from the spot in absolute
Ore,," na if -xpecting to feel the point of.the
alel bolt in his own brain..
"din  iu   "he eriwl, with a shudder
Pierre Mariot," exclaimed Mignon, pointing
at Grenier, - read your destiny; behold how
fleaven ill punish your evil deeds !" ,
""Ioor -d ! muttered Kincaid, despairingly,
dropping   his chin upon his breast, while Cal-
lad, with more presence of mind, sprang into
the aniouang thicket, rifle in hand.
.   "   iCome back," shouted Mariot ; but Callard
was already in the bushes. . It was fortunate
for Brion that the captain turned to the north-
een instead of the western side, for it was from
-that quarter that the arrow  had apparently
beit projected. After beating about in the
thicket for a few minutes, Callard returned,
flying seen no enemy.
""Look at your misguided instrument, and
ell ien if you are prepared to goas suddenly ?"
-aid Mignon to Pierre, warningly.
I nustruroent ?" , repeated Mariot, with a
quickness that proved she had touched a sensi-
tive spot..'" You know too much, Mignon !"-
'Now, would it not 'be singular, Monsieur
Mariot, if you should 1heet the fate )  the man
at your teet," she resumed,impressively.
Pierre looked at the dead man, and breathed
heavily; an indefinable awe was tugging at his
heart-a phtait oum hand menaced him.
Cahiari atte mipted to draw' the arrow from
Grenier's head ; hut it broke close to the skull,
thi- sr-el point remaining firmly embedded in
brain.

Mignon and Balaam walked toward the en
campment ; Mariot followed in three minutes
-the camp was astir, hunters and trappers
running to the place where Grenier had fallen.
The partisan hurried away from the locality,
much excited by what he had seen and heard.
Indeed, it was to him a night of startling reve-
lations ; but being of a strong, well balanced
mind, he regained his wonted calmness-to ap-
pearance--before he reached the encampment
his band.en
Buckeye met him outside the corral, where
he had been impatiently awaiting him.
" By the beard of Joe Smith !" lie exclaimoed,
"-I've a nice bone for you to pick, and have
been waiting' to throw it to you for more than
three hours."
"Well, give it a toss-I will catch it," quoth
Brion.
" You'll growl over it, I'll warrant."
"I promise not to bite."
" Well, here it is: there's mutiny in the camp
-the trappin' business is at a discount, and
gold hunting' in' the Aztec kentry is at a pre-
mnium."
" Ahi"
"Jes' so, eap'n, I reckon."
" Who is at the head of the new enterprise ?"
"Headley, of course ; but that new feller,
the Frenchman, sprang the trap on 'em,"
"Why, HIeadley apologized for his conduct?"
"Perhaps he will aging; comes :ind of nat'-
ral to him, don't it ?"
"I, too, have made discoveries, Buckeye."
" Open your-pack."
"If I possess any considerable tact in read-
ing human character, you are an honest man.
May I reckon upon ydur friendship and assist-
ance?"
"By the beard of Joe Smith, yes ! When I
forgett to treat you like a friend and brother,
may the arrow of Redpath pierce my brain 1"
" You are sincere, and. I will make you the
repository of important matters. It will be a
relief to share the secrets of the night with one
whom I am sure will not betray me."
The partisan then narrated the incidents al-
ready placed before the reader,reserving to him-
self the privilege of representing Mignon in a
way as favorable to her as the case would pos-
sibly admit. Of his passion for her, lie said no-
thing ; indeed, he was not willing to acknowl-
edge the existence of such a sentiment, even to
himself ; and the pains he took to conceal it,
served to awaken suspicions in the mind of the
trapper, and point to the truth.
" A reg'lar conspiracy ; very curious consarn
-lucky thing that you watched Monsieur Ma-
riot. I-concluded there was sumthin' wicked
in him, while I lay, listening' among the packs
and saddles to his grand talk about gold diskiv-
eries, and the castle of Montezuma, which is a
humbug. The villain has usedia good deal of
nat'ral cunnin' in layin' his plans, but the ta.

I

I

a1


THE  UKEYE RANGER BUCKEYE RANGER.

bles may be turned on him, notwithetandin'
The heathen reptile with the bow is arter him,
and he'll leave some of his men behind him
even as you have. The divil takes care of his
own, it is said ; if it wasn't so, we might ex
pect to hear some day that Monsieur Mariol
had felt the sharp p'int of the steel arrow."
"ge willreturn before morning, hoping hiis
absence has not been noticed," said Biron, very
earnestly.
" He will come back to conduct Headley and
his friends to the Casa Montezuma, and the
land of treasure. How shall you receive him,
cap'n ?"
"I have not matured my plan, yet. Indeed,
I am much disturbed and confused by the ex-
traordinary things that have-providentially,
let me believe-fallen under my observation I
need time to reflect-to resolve on a course of
conduct that shall be the most judicious, the
best for my employers, my men, and, lastly,
myself; for self, friend Buckeye, in an affair
like this, ought to come last, and not be made
to occupy the first place in my thoughts. Dan-
ger encircles me like a belt ; but men have
been in more precarious positions, and lived to
tell the story of their escape ; thus may it be
with me. There are some veterans in my
party that I can rely on ; they will not fail
me, I trust, in an emergency. We can deal
with the.Blackfeet warriors. A surprise would
be disastrous, extremely; but that peril is now
comparatively small. To know an enemy's
order of battle is to know how to meet him.
With your aid,.it will be difficult for a war
party of an hundred to approach our camp
without discovery. I count you a dozen ordi-
nary men; because you have much experience
in Indian policy, and know how to look through
the double sights."
That's a compliment I'm  proud of, inso-
much as it wasn't said by a common man by
way of flattery Cap'n, I am at your orders
from this minute ; tell me to do this or that, to
reconnoitre, to follow trail, to watch for an
enemy by eight, to fight till the last gasp, and
I'll do it without questions. It's an offer I ne-
ver made afore;,but by the beard of Joe Smith,
there's sumthin' in ye I like."
The partisan smiled pleasantly, and held out
his hand. Buckeye gave it a rough and hearty
grasp, thus sealing the friendly compact which
was to last as long as the lives of the parties.
It is now time that we return to Mignon, and
take a casual glance at the passage of events
some hat in their regular order. Mariot speed-
ily made Bllmar acquainted with the fact that
'mademoiselle had repudiated the long talked-
of alliance. ; That gentleman received the in-
foration with more calmness than he had an-
ticipated. He told Pierre to be patient; he
would see his daughter ;. he trusted the matter
would be satisfactorily arranged ; there was no

need of excitement; he had skill to manage it
properly. Mariot was led to hope in the ulti-
mate surrenderof the fair citadel; we will learn
how he prospered.
MonsieurBellnlar at length broached-the suh-
t ject gently to Mignon, who demanded to know
why lie was desirous of such a union. He re-
plied that he was anxious for such a consum-
nation for several reasons.
" Is Monsieur Mariot a man of honor ?" she
asked.
Bellmar was confused.,
" As much so, perhaps, a&amp; the average of
mankind," he answered.
"Is he possessed of even con mon honesty ?"
" What a strange question, Mignon," he re-
turned, evasively.
"Do you consult my happiness only, in this
alliance ?"she demanded.
" What else should I consult ?"
" Interest-worldly interest, possibly."
"Such a marriage would be advautagous in
a pecuniary point of view, I admit "
" Do you fear his anger in case of my refu-
sal?"
"Pierre, you remember, inherited his father's
property, which was worth at his decease far
more than mine ; Pierre wished to enlarge our
business, when he succeeded his father in the
house, and having considerable money, the
savings of my late partner, he made an invest-
ment of capital beyond my means ; so that, in
truth, I am his debtor to a large am ount, which
might make it exceedingly awk ard, should
he wish for a dissolution of the house of Bell-
mar &amp; M'ariot."
"But all your resources are not invested;
during the many years of your labors, you
must have amassed enough to insure you a
competence ?"
"-I have laid by something for you, my
child,-whict you shall have."
"Well, then, my father, let us he content.
Pierre is a villain ; and I will not consent to be
united to a bad man. Whenever you are clos-
eted with him, you should pray : -'Lead me not
into temptation, but deliver me from evil.'"
" One would think you had been listening ?"
he exclaimed, with displeasure.    '
"And correct]', too; for I happened to be
in the room adjoining the library, at the time
of your interview with Pierre in regard to the
American Fur Company."-
" And you heard all ?" cried Bellmar, ex-
cited.   M
" All, my father. And I heard also-what
you did not-the development of his scheme."
"The following day, with three men ?"
" Yes. Can you now say to me : *'My daugh-
ter, I wish-you to marry Monsieur Mariot, for
he is a worthy man.' "
Bellman pressed his hands to his forehead,
and made no'answer.
Mignon related circumstantially all that had

40

a

transpired at the interview between Mariot,
Grenier, Kincaid, and Gardette; to which her
audi or listened without once looking at her,
or e hanging his attitude.
"  all this villany to transpire without one.
effort to prevent it ?' Mignon asked, with in-
genuons warmth, when the narration was
completed.
" What can be done? Mariot will act as he
Pleases," said Bellmar.
" What, will you suffer yourself to be com-
promised in character by the machinations of a
bad man? Do you notsee that his evil schem-
ing must sooner or later become known? Too
many persons have his secrets in possession,
each of whom would betray him for a few dol-
lars. Are you then to connive at murder, my
dear father? Are you to be the accomplice of
assassins ?"
Al ignou spoke earnestly, and Bellmar began
to be startled by her representations.
"Indeed, you move me, Mignon. I had not
considered the subject in a light so serious."
" Your hair, my father, is already silvery.
Would you add crime to age, and die with the
dark mark of Cain upon your brow? Act while
w hile there is time, I entreat of you !"
" I ama powerless, powerless!  Mariot has
sent his emisaries: they are far upon their
way. I cannot overtake them, if I would ; for
you know, Nlignon, that the fire and energy of
youth has departed years ago. I regret what lie
has done, extremely ; his plans are both rash
and wicked : Mon Dieu, my child, I am trou-
-bled."
"Now you speak according to the dictates of
nature and religion, and your voice is pleasant.
-Ah, if you listen to Pierre, you will leave me
but a legacy of infamy !"
But what can I do, girl?"
-- DI-solve all connection with Mariot, even
at a great p.-ciitry sacrifice. Let him with-
draw his capital-suffer him to do his worst--
the law will protect you; you will be a gainer
to rid yourself of him at any price."
1 I believe that is the truth, Mignon. World-
ly interests may have blinded.my eyes, but do
you think I am a very bad man at heart, my
daughter?"             -
Ohl no; at heart you are good ; therefore,
you should not be unequally yoked with an
unbeliever in human virtue, a contemner qf
honesty, a scoffer at religion, an apostate from
honor. Say you will try to save Brion's party
from destructionn, and let the house of Bellmar
&amp; Mariot fall? kIow your gray hairs would
look at the bar of justice I how your head
would droop with shame under the heavy pres.
sure of guilt !"
" Perhaps Mariot will relent."
" But you have .said it is already too late ;
lie has sent hired assassins to dog the honest
partisan, to out off men engaged in a lawful
ealing."

"Parbleu ! woman's instincts are said to be
quick and true ; come, what shall I do ?"
"You will trust it to rue ?"
" I will trust it to you "
" And you will allow me money, and what.-
ever you may wish."
Mignon embraced her father, who went on to
say that business would compel hin to go to
St. Louis, to be absent three weeks; but lhe
trusted in her discretion, having no fears that
she would be guilty of follies.
" Your mind," he continued, "is fertile in
expedients. while mine has lost the greater
part of its strength and vigor. I am willing, I
am more than willing -I am anxious that
Pierre's designs should be thwarted.  But
Brion has gone; where, I know not. We hoped
our party 'would be in advance of him, but his
activity has outdone us.  If Brion is at Fort
Leavenworth, a faithful messenger might be
sent to warn him to be on his guard--without
compromising myself or Mariot. A few vague
hints judiciously thrown out would be suffi-
cient, without calling names, or indicating the
precise nature of the danger."
" Was not Captain Brion here a week ago ?"
"Yes, he was after men; but most of them
being already engaged by me, he left the same
day, and since that time, has passed through
all the frontier towns of any note, in search of
hunters and'trappers. And this is why it is so
difficult to find him."
"When will your band be ready to start?"
"In ten days."
"Numbering how many men?"
"One hundred."
"And commanded by--"
" Captain Callard."
The foregoing conversation led to that extra-
ordinary resolution which resulted in the pil-
grinage of Mignon, in male attire, to the wes-
tern wilds. She hoped to find the partisan at
Fort Leavenworth, make such communication
as she might without directing suspicion to-
ward her father, and return without a protrac-
ted absence. She waited her father's depar-
ture with impatience, that she might put her
plan into execution, but he delayed it day after
day.  Ten days elapsed before he set out for
St. Louis, and even then Qallard had not se-
cured his complement of men.
Mignon abandoned the expectation of finding
Brion at Fort Leavenworth, so much time had
passed since he left Westport-therefore deter-
mined upon that course of conduct which
finally introduced her to the reader on the
prairies.
Having once formed the project, she set
about preliminary operations with an earnest-
ness that conquered obstacles, and a foresight
that would not have been dise'editable to a
veteran trapper. Her perspicacity owed much
of its acuteness, however, to observation, de-
rived from the associations which her father's

TIIE BUCKEYE RANGER.

41


TIE 1UCKEYE RANGER.

business naturally threw around her.  From
her earliest recollections she had seen hunters
and trappers, heard their tales of adventure ;
they were a class whose habits and peculiari-
ties were most familiar. She knew the nature
of the perils that attended them in their long
excursions, amid the rugged and snowy moun-
tains, what kind of an outfit they needed, their,
mode of travelling and defence ; and lastly,
how, when, and where they practiced tlieir
trade.
Balaam was a faithful servant, who had been
many years in the family. It was the particu-
lar wish of Madame Bellmar, at the time, of
her decease (which-was when Mignon was but
a child), that Balasai should always be consid-
ered a member of the household, and be treated
with kindness-which desire had been strictly
observed and respected.  Balaam was not, as
the reader may be inclined to conjecture, fee-
ble and in hiS dotage, but robust, and a giant
in strength. At'fifty years, with power undi-
minished by hardship and abuse, he was at the
best period of his manhood.' Mignon found in
him an able coadjutor-after she had overcome
his scruples and silenced )is objections-for
Balaam had twice been to Bellmar's trading
house in the country of the Nez Perees. -
When her preparations were completed, she
proceeded to Fort Leavenworth, accompanied
by this faithful friend and servant.: Brion had
departed.
Tie description of the slender youth, in the
opening chapter, precludes the necessity of de-
scribing Mignon's appearahee when she joined
the trappers at Fort Leavenworth. Previous
to starting, she wrote an affectionate letter for
her father-who two days before had left for
St Louis, placing it where he would be sure
'to find it.  The advent of Mignon among the
hunters was looked upon by Callard with sus-
picion ; she soon perceived that she was
watched ; and deprecated from her heart that
seltish interest that fills the human soul with
distrust.
Halasani," said Mignon, "is there pot some-
thing you wish to say to me ?"
" Dar is, Massa Crevier," replied Balaam.
"Well, there is no one in hearing ; proceed."
"Does ye see dat fire ober dar ?"
" Yes, Balaam."
" Whose fire dat is, ye spect ?"
Mignon answered that she could form no
supposition, whatever.
Balaam informed her that Captain Brion was
encamped there for the night.
" Alone ?" inquired Mignon.
Balaam replied in the affirmative, explaining
that his party were in advance, he having left
Fort Leavenworth but a few hours before Cal-
lard began his march.
"I must speak to Captain Brion," added
Mignon.

" Dat am diffikilt," quoth Balaam.
"Do you think we are watched?".
" Ebry minit, Missy Mignon."
"Hush ! call me Master Crevier. Will put
this matter to the test. I will walk leisurely
from the camp, and you will remain here. 1
I need you, I will discharge my rifle, the use of
which you have so well. taught me. If I an'
followed, you will be sure to observe the cir~-
cumstance."
The fire to which Balaam had cited Mignon's
attention, was, distant nearly half a mile, but
on account of an intervening valley did not
seem halfso far.
She left the encampment, advancing with
mingled emotions of timidity and heroism.
How novel was her situation I What unfriend'
ly constructions her conduct might bear! But
she arose superior to weakness ; she felt ai
strength that surprised herself, and prayed that
those might be forgiven whose unhappy tern-
perament it is to think evil of others. She
would save her aged father frorA becoming par.
taker of another's sins-from sharing another's
crime. That vas just-that was praiseworthy
-that was right--and all the sophistry in the
world could not make right wrong. She grew
strong in moral power, a shield of protection
was over, above, around her. Her fears were
dispelled by the strength of virtue, and the
consciousness of truth.  .
Mignon heard'steps, and looking around, saw
Captain Callard following her. She paused
upon a gentle eminence-the same where she
first appeared to the reader. It has been shown
how she reached the bivouac of Brion, meeting
with a receptionfrom that worthy man, which,
though civil, was notecordial.
Mignon's calmness was. severely shaken by
the trapper's coldness, which caused her to re-
alize but too sensibly the peculiar awkwardness
of her position To conceal her feelings. she
assumed that thoughtful, abstracted air which
we noted in the proper place, such a mood
giving her a natural pretext for averting her
face fr m the mountaineer. She had flattered
herself that she could meet Brion unshrinking-
ly, and warn him of -the danger impending
without effort or hesitation ; but now she found
herself overwhelmed by innumerable scruples.
and a diffidenee quite unaccountable.
She was observed, too.; Callard was behind
a tree, not fifty yards distant ; he showed him-
self to Mignon, with his right forefinger upon
his lips, and his left held up in menace ; thie
pantomime signified that she should be silent.
She was cruelly embarrassed; but a remarka-
ble power of self-control kept her outwardly
calm. She resolved not to be thwarted ; when
she had sufficient command over her voice, she
said, without changing her meditative attitude
or expression:
" Captain Brion, there is danger near you ; I
have come to put you upon your guard ; but

Ir

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

I am watched ; a man behind yonder tree is
alnnost near enough to hear my voice."
Mignon waited for a response ; the moun-
taineer was already asleep, while Captain Cal-
lard was drawing nearer.  She arose to go,
when, to her horror, she discovered a serpent
winding its unsightly body into a coil, three
paces from the partisan's head. To seize a long
fagot and dispatch the loathsome creature, was
the work of a moment only ; she marvelled at
her own promptitude and boldness as soon as
the deed was accomplished.   Excited and
trembling, she hurried from the spot to meet
Balaam, who was approaching. Eluding Cal-
lard, she returned to the encampment, glad
that her feeble hand had been the instrument
of Providence in the preservation of the trap-
per.
It was after this partial failure that Mignon
resolved on another experiment. As has been
anticipated, it was through her agency that the
hatchet had been left where it would fall into
the hands of Brion, the dumb bearer of a con-
cealed message. Balaam had been trusted with,
that commission, and despite the espionage of
Callard, succeeded in discharging it successful-
ly by adroit management.  Mignon had en-
joined on him to be careful that a portion of
the slip of paper be left visible, that it might
immediately, be seen by the finder--an item

43

which he so far overlooked, that, as we have
seen, it was several days before it attracted the
partisan's attention. To mystify the latter,
Balaam had adopted the expedient of breaking
the trail by grasping a mammoth vine that
hung pendant from a tree, and swinging him-
self forward across a small gully where the
ground was soft ; this was why the trapper
was baffled.
By a skillful manmeuvre,.Mignon evaded the
vigilance of Callard, after the two hands had
passed Fort Laramie, and joining the partisan,
conversed with lim in the manner related, not
doubting but her warning had been read and
understood; or, at least sufliciently compre-
hended to make the captain so cautious .as to
frustrate the designs of his enemies  She
wished on that occasion to speak to him free-
ly; but, unfortunately, she confounded Buck-
eye with Gardette, the half-breed, who was
acting for Mariot ; and hence her silence on
'he subject ever uppermost in her thoughts.
While she wans planning an expedient to rid
herself of his presence, Balaam appeared in the
distance, motioning her to return. to the party.
inasmuch as her absence was exciting inquiry
-a series of signals previously agreed upon.
We are now ready to tell what happened to
Mignon after her unexpected interview with
Monsieur Mariot.


THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

CHAPTER VIII.
MIGNON MEETS RAVENCLAW.
Mignon loved liberty.  Nothing could be
more repugnant to her feelings than the idea'of
personal restraint, especially when exercised
y a main whose character she detested.  To
remain with the band and be subject to the
authority of Pierre Mariot, was a contingent
entirely ~abhorrent to her notion of her o wn
rights and privileges. It was also at variance
with her instinctive delicacy to be brought
again into contact with those who already knew.
or mistrusted her sex ; who could neither tn.
derstand her motives nor pity her confusion.
To avoid being so awkwardly and painfully
placed-an object, perchance, of rude con-
merit and ridicule -to evade Mariot's vigilance
and escape his domination, became her'ruling
desire.  In the event of success, should she
throw herself upon the protection of Brion.,or
attempt to return home across the wide prai.
ries, attended by Balaamn only? 'The first was
not without objections, but it appeared most
safe and feasible.  Mignon believed it would
be best to act upon her determination promptly,
while Mariot was still laboring under surprise,
before he had artfully deliberated, arranged his
plan of action, and systematized his espionage
over her conduct.
During her pilgrimage, Mignon had nightly
been protectod by a small tent, which Bahaam
had provided for that purpose, and which lie
was expert in putting up~ and taking down.
The tent had two comparttments,in thte smaller
of Which slept Balaam, like a faithful watch-
dog, ever on the alert, ready to start up for her
defence at the first approach of danger. He
kindled andi kept the fires also, when fires were
needful, cooking with skill, preparing the choi-
cest cuts of venison for his adventurous young
mistress.
So it will hence be seen that Mignon passed
the time, when not on the march, quite by her-
self, apart from the motley mixture of men
composing Callard's, band. The services of
Balaamn were many and important.   His ad-
vice was always seaisonable ; she trusted in his
sagacity, anticipating protection from  his
strong arm in every emergency which might
occur. he was proud of her contilence; will-
ing to make any sacrifice that human creature

conali, to ininre her rar,.ty and comrtfort B1f.
latmi was a  i-ttrted, 7id Iunl  it would 60.ir
with him who t-houtld have tihe tititrity to mi-
stilt hlNgntn. He wIs nitot wholly in(ebt.ed to
those deadly, imtoplt'enits in vogue, for the
nans of assmIt and veigeatteo, because Nature
had gifted  him with hands of remarkable
strengt.h, with wthieth to crh an ad versary,
and administert corporial pain.  Bavai twas
of a patient. genial disposition, but w'hn a
quarrel was forced upot thim. and his ftliigs
were outraged, he was an antagonist gre-aly to
he feared. Those so umefortunate as to feel the
stunning power of his fist repented their rash-
ness, and cared not to provoke his ire agltin.
Bthiam 'was consulted in reference to the
emergency that had arisen. She explained to
him her rea-ons for not wishing to remain with
the party, which, in his view, were sufficiently
cogent; indeed, her mere will would have betae
considered inperative, without asilngle al gu.
ment. She said to him :
" We can escape more readily to-night than
to-morrow, or any subsequent period."
" Dat an a fack," quot. tBalamn.
"Come, my friend," she continued, " how
shall it be doie ?"
" I want to know just where yer gwine when
yer git away; dat's de question dat quiress
splainiin'."        '
"Perhaps I shall throw myself upon the pro-
tection of Captain Brion."-
"The man you-"
" The man 1-what, Balaam ?" said Mignon,
-sharply, coloring.
'" Nuii of no consequence," replied Balsam.
"Dorn't 'sturb me; I'm thinkin' how it can be
done."
" I'll wait patiently."
The African remained silent for some five
minutes.
" We shall want our bosses," he said, at
length.
Mignon stsented.
" Well, dis' chile mustcrawl dut dar 'montgst
'em, cut de side-lines, and lead 'em off softly ,
while you creep away in nether direction."
"Yes, Ba:iarn."
" Den I jines ye wid de losses, ober dar b3
dem cotton-wooas "   .11
"Suppose you should be discovered ?"
"Dis eommlod feller fight-git away. I'll meet
ye dare, sure,'twixt dis and norain'-pervidia
you git dar.'

"'That I can do, believe -me. You see I am
small-I can m ove quietly. Look out, and ob-
serve what is going on."
Baaami did as bidden, reporting that most of
the party were gathered around the dead body
of Grenitr, but he could hear voices in Cal-
lard's tent.
'- The fate of that man was sudden and aw-
ful; but I amagined I saw in his death the
hand of ret ributive justice," said Mignon.
"Red path am about," said the black, in an
und-r tone.
h Yes, it would really seem that there is such'
a personage; he was spoken of by that very
man as a hitting terror to unloose upon Captain
Brion's larty, but his evil thought has reacted
on him ; yonder he lies lifeless, translated in a
moment from this world to the other, with his
sins upon him-with his many unrepented sins
weighing darkly upon him."
Mign'o" paused, arrested possibly by the
thought that thesame peril attended her, wher-
ever she might wander in the mountains.
" Did you remark, Balaam, that the half-
breed was cinnh affected by fear ? I recognized
him immediately, as one of the three men in
the service of Mariot-one of the trio from
whose rudeness I was saved by the brave moun-
taineer. Not long since I confounded him with
another, who was a better man, undoubtedly."
"Dere, missy, I'se forgot sev'ral 'portant
'tic'lars !" exclaimed Balsam, without heeding
Mignon's last remarks. " Here's our tent and
baggage ; can't get along 'thout 'em."
"I know they are useful, but necessity com-
pels us to leave them."'
The black looked around and shook his head
-equivalent to a declaration that he must have
them at any risk. Mignon gave him to under-
stand that she would confide the matter whol-
ty to his discretion, having unshaken faith in
his prudence.
"And now," she resumed, "is itnot time for
me to go?"
Balaama went out and reconnoitered once
more, corning back with the report that there
was a fair prospect of success, as the attention
of the baul was still directed to the subject of
Grenier's death ; while Mariotand Callard were
yet talking earnestly-as he learned, by listen-
ing in the vicinity of the parties.
" I hate to have ye try it," said Balaam,
causee it's dangerous-like, and dare no know-
in' what'll happen; but if ye've made up yer
mind to it, why, I s'pose you must. De Lord
know what'll come ob all dis, for I doesn't ;
but I'll stick to ye long as I've de breff ob life.
Now,'go and manage it de best ye can,'and I'll
watch yer as long as I can see ye." '
Mignon left the tent ; a single glance over
the encampment assured her that the moment
was favorable. Moving quickly, her figure
was soon lost to salaam's view in the shadow
of the hill, at the base of which lay the valley.

Five minutes after, he saw her near the cotton.
woods, amii was certain she would reach it
without discovery, whieh she did.
It was then two hours past rnidnight  The
moon was vaning, and thestar's seemed tc look
down through a mist of silver. The mountains
were grin1 anti cold, the snows on their sum-
mits gleatning faintly and wierdly in the pale
light.
To Mignon's imagination the view appeared
like giant castles, with lofty towers, gh tumty
bastions, and rugged turrets. The defiles were
moats, spanned by drawbridges kept by genii.
Feelings of awe stole upon Mignon as she cast
her eyes towards those mighty barriers. The
mightiness of Nature, the grandeur of htr works,
humbled her heart. The everfamished prairie-
dogs fled at her advance, stopping at a little dis-
tance to look back and redouble their cries ;
while occasionally, in the distance, a troop of
wolves howled their hideous notes. Though
inured to these sounds, Mignon-now that she
was alone-if not absolutely terrified, was
startled and nervous. There followed her also
an unpleasant remembrance of what had oc-
cnrred that night directly before her, as well as
incidents of a similar nature that had happened
in Brion's band. As others had asked, so did
Mignon, "0Who is Red path ?"
Her better judgment told her that Redpath
was asavage, cunning and deadly. and that
was all. But why were his movements so
secret, his step so noiseless, his approaches so
mysterious ? Easy questions tooanswer.  He
was secret because success depended upon se-
crecy;his step noiseless, for the reason that he
adopted extraordinary precautions; his ap-
proaches mysterious, as the combined result of
long practice and skill.  Red path, then, was
but a stealthy Indian, more ma evolent than
his brethren . hence, more terrible. He was
daring, persevering tand adroit ; but perhap he
might yet find an adversary as daring, perse-
vering, and adroit as he. He was but a savage,
daubed with 'paint, and full of subtlety; lie
would doubtless fall, ultimately, by the ball of
an American woodsman, and his name and
fame only survive.
Thus reflected Mignon, trying to suppress
those fears which were natural to the time and
place, and in which something very like super-
stition blended. Say what we may to the con-
trary, the strongest minds have an undereur-
rent of superstition, and the sturdiest scotters
at the marvellous find a substratum of super-
uaturalisn in their souls. This is a truism that
:he-" atheist's laugh" and the infidel's ridicule
cannot overthrow. It is a good thing for man
that there is such a susceptibility within him ;
it is the only avenue through which to con-
vince him of theexistence of a Supreme Power,
and a conscious life hereafter  Mignon formed
no exception to the general body of humanity,
in this respect; and though the-name of Red.

44

g
1
s'
a
a
c
,
,
t;
1
'
I
.!
r
+yi
E
(f
t
f
t
1
s
i'
i
i
3
1
i
4
Y
r
1
,

TIE BUCKEYE RANGER.


THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

path had at first presented as a fabled terror,
she shared, unconsciously ahnost, in the pre-
vaarlirn. entiment of the trappers, hunters and
voyagenrs-that Redpath was being some-
what between human and devilish.,,-
Near the cotton-woods where she wasto-wait
the coming of Balaan, 'was a crevasse or gully,
the entranee- to which _wars more deeply pic-
tured in shadow.  Its slides were jagged and
high, worn anrrad torn (formerly) by a strong
Streak of water that tumbled from tire lower
ranges in a season of rain. At. the top, at the
Very ediges of the crevasse, their roots exposed
and rotbbrei of soil, stood some trees of pinon,
cyprss, aid birch, bending their sickly toips
over the claim. The place, lonely and sombre
as it was, appeared to off -r to Mignon a safe
retreat until the black should join her. With
a step that faltered, lacking its wonred firm-
ness, she pussel into the gloom of the crevasse.
It was cooler there-the night wind breathing
through as it crept front tie hills. Walking
on, she came to a deep dell or basin -a spot of
rare obscurity-of which  we have had occa-
sion to speak. Beyond were a series of eleva-
tions extiading to the base of the Wind River
chain of tire Rocky Mountains.  -
Migron paused in that solitude.. How com-
plete was he' isolation ! she seemed alone on
the face of the globe, or the only inhabitant off
a new world. ifrndreds of miles distant were
the falarihrar olbjeets of childhood, scenes indeli-
bly impressed ii mrenory, home, with its ten-
der associaitiorns and kindred beloved. - Why'
was she in that isolation ? Why had she cast'
aside the trammels orf her -sex, and betaken to
such a quixotic adventure ? Tosave her father
frotni participation in crime, and to secure, if
prasible, the safety of Captair Brion, was the
never varying response w which be gave to those
questions.  Her father's name always care
first, afterward Brioii's; that order agreed better
witr lher delicacy. How would the sententious
world interpret all this ? the world with such
a severe rense of decorum-the world which
reaches just as far as one's name and fame, and
no further-aill beyond being a blank !
Fear not !" said a voice.
Mignon recoiled and cried out in -alarm; be?
side her stoodit a tall and motionless figure.
" Be not afraid, pale-face."
The speaker was an Indian of majestic height.
Win h his arms folded upon his breast, he stood
looking calmly at Mignon.
"Stand up like a man, and do not tremble
like a \vorman. Ravenelaw strikes notsuch as
thou !  Thy chin is smooth, thy heart is soft,
and there is no power in thy arm to harm my
race.'"
The voice of the red man was deep and mu-
sical; it 'erme from his broad chest without
effort. His eyes were dark and .piercing as
those of the eagle ; it seemed to Mignon that
she became transparent before him, ad he had

to look at her only, to see what was passing
within. His bearing was diginified to a notable
degree   He spoke the English as though it
been his vergRcular.
" The vagabond prairie-dog has a home, the
fox a covert, and the wild wolf s whelp a den ;
but thou. 0 son of a mighty nation, art shel-
terless," added the Indian.
1" Take'the goat from the mountains, the huf-
falo from the prairies,-the wild roe-e from the
pain pas, the fish from the water,.ardi thee from
the dwellings of thy kindred  Each thing and
creature loves its element; therefore the goat
stays on the nioirtain ; the buffer lo on the
prairie, the wild horse on the pampas, the fish
in tie water ; wherefore art thou here ?"
You say well : you speak accord  g to Na-
-ture ; but it would take long to tell you, son
of thie eagle, why I am in the courntry which
the Master of Life has given to the red man,"
replied Migrion, re-aasrrred by the lofty yet
kindly anner of the native.
itavetrelaw walked a few paces from Mignon,
and addressed some one in his own dialect:
immediately she heard steps lhrrrr'ying away.
Ravernclaw returned to his former iiaee ; but,
its he did not speak. she followed ris exiarmple.
In a short tire-it was long to Mignonr-an
Indian woman appeared with a hirnlle.
" Follow her, and do as she bds you," sail
Ravenelaw, pointing to the woman ; he then
spoke to the latter in his own trrgue, who,
making a gesture to M igon, proreedled to
cross the dell. There, Nicnon perceived -a
lut, and entered it, in obedience to the signs
of her guide. The woman lighted a pine torch
by some embers that were glowirrg upon a
hearth of stone.  Thrusting the rd of the
torch into the earth, she unrolled the iuidle.
The maiden's cheek crimsoned! tie handle
contained feriale wearing apparel, of Indian
style, which might have belonged to an Indian
belle, so elaborately was it made, and so taste-
fully ornamented with those products esteeri
graceful and becoming by tawny dames and
red damsels.
The Blackfoot woman pointed to Mignon's
clothes, and .said, " Take off;" then to the
garrnents which she had brought, and aded,
Put on."
The eyes of Ravenclaw had penetrate her
disguise. Was her artitice so tra nsparent to
this son of the mountains ? Had Nature indeed
gifted him with keener instincts thiiri the chill
of cities, the pampered creature of civiliza-
tion ? Was she a prisoner?  What were his
intentions?  Snh queries ran rapidly through
her mind, while mechanically she obeyed the
commands of the woman.
A notable change was soon made in Mig-
non's appearance, and one that was far from
displeasing. We cannot picture fully to the
reader's. imagination the effect of this novel
costume (wrought, as it was, in the height of

Si
rc-i
Si
tr
Si

Q

46


THE BUCKEYE RANGER            41

Indian art), or note the various articles of
which it was conmpus-d-nor is itneedful. We
will s:ty, however, en passant, that Mignon's
small foot did not look less pretty for the sub-
stitution of a more elegant moccasin, nor her
ankle less dainty for the fringed leggins. Her
toilet was not considered complete till her
cheeks were stained with paint, and her hands
also. The woman then spread some skins
upon the ground before-the tent, and Raven-
claw. seeing her with Mignon, approached.
-Daughter of the pale-face," he said, "I am
of a warlike race, but I do not war upon
women. Now, tell me why you are here ? I
will listen--my ears are open."
Mignon understood at once that the wishes
of the man ih whose pi'esence she stood were
comiandls, and not to be disregarded.
It were better," she answered, with tact,
"that I remain silent before a great chief and
a iiighty warrior, as thy lofty hearing pro-
elaios thee to be. I have called thee son of
the eagle, because the eagle is a noble bird,
with a daring spirit, proud plumage,'and eyes
t hat ire not dazzled by the sun. Passon,thou
of the sir'ong wing, nor stoop in thy flight to
norine the sparrow that flies not so high, nor
emoates thy deeds."
" 1 said my ears were open ; they are, but I
hear nothing. - Are you speaking, Lilyface ?"
he said, somewhat haughtily.
"You have called me Lilyface, because the
pale blood of my nation betrays itself in my
countenance. It is a good name-I like it; I
will teach my people to call me thus, should I
live to return. Listen, chief: the lodge of
Lil y-face is away on the- border, with a h-
dred prairies and rivers between. She has
journeyed many days to reach the hunting-
grounds of the Blackfoot. You have asked
why she came t Keep your ears open, and
you shall hear."
Mignon, in that style pleasing to an Indian's
fancy, acquangted him with those particulars
which influenced her movements. She spoke
of Brion; described the character of Pierre
Mariot, finally  unfolding his entire plan.
.Ravenclaw remained calm and unmoved ;
while Mignon watched his face in vain to note
the effect of her story. The incidents of the
march were not passed over, but related in
their appropriate connection. When she fin-
ished, Ravenclaw was in possession of the more
important matters contained in the foregoing
pages.
" A curse is upon your nation," said Raven-
claw. "That curse is the love of yellow dust;
it turns them into greedy wolves ; they howl
and tear each other, and are never at rest.
They die by the way ; their graves lie along
the line of march, It is well; the-Great Spirit
has sent it upon them. They tremble at the
name of Red path-his deeds strike them dumb;
they become as women-they grow pale,.like,

squaws, when the avenger is abrul--wh .r
the silent feet of the unknown posues----wlien
his steps are in the mountains, and in the d.
files. Lily-face, so perish thy race!''
" And wherefore?" asked Mignon.
"Because they are pushing~ us over the
mountains into the sea. Fish live in the sa.
but men cannot. But we have turned on oir
pursuers like the hunted bulfltio, ind will go
over the snowy ranges, fighting andbleediig,
and staining the cliffs with'blood  Outr old-
men may  ie, and be buried in sight of t he
glorious hunting-ground of the Blackfoot ia-
tion ; but our young men and our children w ill
fall in arms, or perish ignobly by the sounding
shores of the great waters."
Mignon looked earnestly at Ravenclaw. and
believed that the prophet-heart was beating in
his swelling bosomn.
" Home and country are as sacred to the red,
man as the white. Tihere is but one God, Lily-
face, and he is as much the God of the Indian
as the white man," added Ravenclaw, in tunes
that thrilled Mignon.
"You are-right !" she exclaimed. " You are
my brother ; there is but one humanity, one
people, one race. The soul of a hero tales
from your eyes ; the voice of truth slpeakhis
through you ; the cause of the Indian is juit
Yes, Ravenclaw, you are leaving a fair hiit-
age-it is slipping from you ; your way is, in-
deed, over the mountains-your -children's
graves will be the sea."
" And the great and awful Master of Life
will avenge us on a proud and rapacious na-
tion 1" cried Ravenclaw, with revereiitial f'r-
vor. "He will smite your people-he wilt
sweep them away with the power of his
mighty aria. He will remember the wrgs
of the red man long after the red man has ta-
come extinct; and, in his tremendous wralIi,
he will arise and shake heaven and earth ; your
stars shall fall, and your bloody eagle shall
shriek for help !"
Ravenclaw stretched out his hand, and his
expression-was sublime. Mignon was awed ;
she felt a compassion for the red race that
noved her to tears.
" You dowell to weep, daughter of a doomed
people; even warriors have dropped tears like
women, and wiped them from their faces with
bloody hands."
Ravenclaw's arm fellto his side, his chin sunk
upon his breast, and lie stood panting fotr
breath,; another pang would have broken his
heart.
Mignon did not speak--she dared not inter.
rupt a grief so sublime. She waited for his
kingly spirit to grow calm. When lie ad-
dressed her again, his emotion had subsided,
and his tones were subdued to kindnesA, almost
tenderness.
" But I have spoken to you as if you were a
warrior, and not a woman. You are not gulty

47


THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

for the sins of your iation--you shall not suf- "You have inspired mT with such confi-
fer. Love has made you daring, or your voice dence," returned Mignon, "that your word is
would not have been heard in this valley. Wear to me like that of the Master of Life. If I were
the garments you have on ; they become your weary, and you said to me, ' Lie down there
sex better, and you are safer in them. Take and sleep in safety,' I would do so, and rest
this, and wear it always in sight ; it will keep  without troubled dreams."
you from  harm  when others are ready to      Mignon smiled sweetly, and held out her
perish."                                    hand to Rtvenelaw. He took it,-and held it a
The chief gave Mignon a rA'ven, wrought in moment in is own. He did not utter his
heads upon a pieceof dressed otter skin ; she thoughts, hislips were closed, his face calm-
fastened it upon her breast.               though the sternness of its expression was
"I will wear it," she said, "in remembrance gone ; but his breathing grew quick. shaleing
of a generous chieftain ; it shall be my only  his broad'chest with its vehemence. Who slail
talisman."                                  tell what strong feeling was wrestling with
"Go to the wigwams of my nation," resumed his proud spirit, and how nobly he mastered
Ravenclaw. "Your frame is too tender to go himself?
yonder, where the mountain-tops are covered " Lilyface," he said, in tones that welled up
with snows. Remain, and in a few moons you  from his soul, "vou make me think better of
shall be conducted safely, and with an escort, your race. I wfl not forget you, I will think
of warriors, to one of the great forts of your of you till I go to the land of spirits where my
1eople.This false hearted Mariot, this craven  fathers have gone. Look up and see the stnre
renebman, shall feel the power he has in- and remember', many moons from  now, when
yoked; he shall die as he deserves, and his you stand again near the wigwams of your kin,
hireling dogs shall share in his downfall. dred and bhold them shining-tha 1you saw
Though I slay my enemies, I protect the good, them once in a far off country, and with the
the beautiful, whom  the Master of Life has chief of a hunted people beside you. In his
made to love, and not to destroy. You, are dreams, Ravenclaw has heard a voice like
not such as smite my brethren; your foot is thine ; but after to-night it will be heard save
not euch as goes on the war-path, nor your in dreams only. Lilyface, daughter of my ene-
voice such as shouts the battle-cry of the pale- mies, we meet because it was the will of the
faees ; therefore, you live and speak to Raven- Great Spirit, and we part because it is also his
claw. Think not that justice and humanity  will."
dwell with the white men only.; they have    Ravenclaw relinquished Mignon's hand, re.
hi bitations in forests, and in the hearts of men peating, in a voice of deepest melancholy: "We
called savages."                            meet-we part!"
" The heart, of Lily-face beats with grati-  " We may meet again in the land of souls,"
tule ; the generosity of Ravenclaw fills her said Mignon.
with wonder and admiration ; yet she loves   " The red man and the white will be forever
her people, nor would remain in the lodges of distinct," resumed Ravenclaw.
the Blackfoot nation. because her father's spirit  "In that country to which we are going, all
would grow heavy with sorrow, and her kind- nations will forget their earthly difference.
red would mourn her as one dead. -Let Lily- Enemies will be reconciled, races will blend,
face depart in peace to join the hunters of the and kindreds and families and people mingle
mountains."                                happily," returned Mignon.-
A cloud rested upon the brow of the Indian.  " Never !" exclaimed the chief. "The soul
"I thought to save you from danger, but you  of a red man and the soul of a white will re-
refuse to be thus saved. Think again. Would  main eternally unlike each other ; their desires
you see the tomahawk and scalping-knife crim- and instincts are not the same."
sonued with the blood of your people? Would " The revelations of that mysterious life are
you se them falling like leaves, with no power hidden from  our eyes; we see darkly, and
to md tem r?"                              know imperfectly ; but the beneficent hand of
- God knows I would see no such horrors!' the Great Spirit will remove the vail, and at
exel imed Mignun.           _     -        death we shall discern more clearly, and think
-- Remain; and you shall be as safe as if by  mire comprehensively. Chief of a' powerful
tl tir-side of youe either's wi wam."    nation, adieu till then! -
"I doubt it not-I doubt it not!T" she re-  "Be it so-it is decreed ; and what is de-
ph'ed.                                     creed cannot be changed.- Our paths have been
Y Yet your h-art is near the chief of the approaching each other since the hour our lives
w it'e tralp-rs,"snid Ravenelaw, after a pause. commenced ; but having met, after to-night
Swe it so, you sihall go to him in safety if it they will forever diverge. Daughter of the
tikes all m'y waruri.'s to conduct you; yet I paleface, a voice calls you away ; leave my
swear by the GTr"t Spirit that not a hair of sight-go, go !"
your head shall fall'if you stay."           Ravenelaw drew his form to a loftier height,

e

48

Brion's camp was astir very early in the morn-
bg. The hunt was to be resumed, and the iunt-
ers wished to be seasonably in the saddle
Headley and his party, excited by their new
hopes and schemes, were among the first to
awake. They had dreamed of a golden harvest,
and the "Casa Montezuma."     The partisan
had not betaken to his blanket until nearly
daylight, and weary with his vigils, he was
yet slumbering.
Mariot was not to be seen. The gold-seek-
ers, drawn together by sympathy of feehing,
were cooking their breakfast very amicably.
inquiries were made respecting the absence o
- the grand projector of the new enterprise-
IHeadley only appearing undisturbed by thecir-
cumstance, he was very naturally looked to for
light upon the subject.
"He left us last night," said Headley, in a low
tone. "le came to see me before he went, and
instructed me what to do. ' If I don't return,'
he said,' before morning, you need .not expect
me, but fall back to the Red Buttes with as
many as have the courage to follow you, where
we will arrange everything to mutual satisfac
tion.' This was what he told me."  -
Headley arose with a determined look.
"I am.one that goes, who will follow ?" he
added, glancing inquiringly at his friends.
" Let us go for our horses,'said Conroy.
"Agreed, agreed !" cried a dozen voices.
"NTo the Red Buttes-to the Red Buttes I"
Buckeye was passing the malcontents, and
heard enough to understand what was going
forward ; he ran and aroused Brion from sleep.
"Come, cap'n, it's time for you to act ; the
Headley and Dorelle party are deserting."
Brion was instantly upon 'his feet and walk.

49

and assumed, a sterner expression. Mignon
took a ring from her finger; and placing it in
his hand, said :
" It is the gift of Lilyface-keep it "
Ravenclaw held the glittering jewel between
his thumb and finger.
a This will be more precious to me than my
life," he replied. " Iwill wear it on my breast,
where it shall feel the motion of tay heart as
long as it beats. It shall be with me when I
sleep and when I awake ; it shall- gowith me
to battle, my hands shall grasp it when I die.
In years to come, should the plough of 'the
white man disturb my bones, they will cast up
this gift. And now go, go ! You shsh hear no
more the voice of Ravenclaw."-
Mignon hastened away ; at the distance of a
few paces she paused and waved her hand, but
Ravenclaw stood immovable, and made no
sign.
CHAPTER I'X.
BRIoN's NtTMBERS ARE DIMINISHED.

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

ing toward the horses, which, having eaten
t heir fill, wei-e lying down.
" Ain't you gom' tocall out some of the men
to help you ?" said lhuckeye.
" No, I can help myself !" said the parti an,
firmly.
He found Headley bridling a horse, and
others preparing to do the same.
" Men," said Brion, "these animals belong
to the American Fur Company ; you cannot
take them,"
Headley was confused.
" What!" he exclaimed, "lave we not ridt
den these horses since tLe hour we left Fort
Leavenworth ?"
"So you have had the light of the moon, but
I think you do not own the nmoan," replied
Brion, quietly.
" We have ridden these animals, we have
called them outs, we have groomed and cared
for them, and we shall take them !" rejoined
Headley, raising the saddle from the ground.
"Stop !" thundered the partisan, "do notadd
robbery to unmanly conduct. Everything you
see here is in my charge, and I will spend the
last drop of my blood in its defence I Go, if you
will, in search of the Casa Montezuma, and the
fabulous treasures of the Valley of the Gila, but
go as you are. You shall not plunder my 'amp
for the benefit of your mad schemes. Ha you
made known to me the cause of your dissatis-
faction, and informed me of your intentions to
abandon my party and seek for treasure in a
distant region, I would in turn have dealt
frankly with you ; I would have told you that
you are being duped by a villain ; but this is
past-you are unworthy of my confidence. Go,
and learn by bitter experience that you should
deal honestly with all men, not disr"gard
solemn compacts. I see here thirteen, who
cease from this moment to'be memo ers of my
band. Leave us at once, and never return-
unless as penitent and reasonable men, desiring
protection."
' Protection I" sneered Headley.
"By the beard of Joe Smith !" cried Buck-
eye, who had followed Brion; "you'll need
it!"
"Then doubtless we shall call upon you
returned Conroy.
"Shoulder your rifles, my friends," said
Headley, to his adherents.
"To the Red Buttes-to the Red Buttes!"
shouted others.
"I pity these misguided men, my anger
yields to compassion," said the partisan to
Buckeye, in-a low tone.
"It's sympathy wasted, cap'n ; it to t i
'em to be wise and prudent, especially while
that tall Missourian is among 'em. The quicker
you get rid of such fellers the better ; for they
aim't fit for your business, and never will be,"
answered Buckeye.
F Though indignant at your conduct. I re.


THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

;r't to see you rushinflindfl--f into new  ifli. tenirig to the Conversionj Mariot; and Bea-
urties anu dangers. Men, let tde warn you tc  ertakir. and the sui restions previously itmate
shun Dorelle, ad make your way with asnmuch  by the former in regard to hiiq route, he litavig
ascrecy ind expedition as possible to Fort Lar. advised him to keep near the nourtains.
antie," resuriied Brion, addressing the gold - Accompanied by Buckeye,  ion inounied
seek-rs once more.                         and rode toward the canton  It was a fixed
-' You speak of difficulties and dangers as principle with the latter, always to take the
though there were none attending your expe- post of danger, and be the forest in sina-
ditma. and we were not at this moment turn- tiotis requiring courage and skill. Wikn ip-
io our backs upon them," said Conroy.     proaching a place where an enemy was known
-- Once more, my friends-shoulder arms-  to be concealed, he asked no one to solve tire
march! If we cannot have our horses, we can  matter, but settled the questiontby his own
itt  on foot and tsrust to luck-and Monsieur personal bravery and tact.  If the front was
Dorelle foo  threatened, he was in the front; if the rear. le
The gold-seekers fell into marching order, was in the rear, taking at once the responsibil-
and moved off in quite a spirited manner.  ity and the risk.
"Dim-sighted fools !" exclaimed Buckeye.   " Get up. Flash !" said Buckeye, giving his
"They are'marching to destruction I"       horse the rein.
( Or to join the Rocky Mountain-Fur Cot-  While the parties were galloping toward thea
pang," added Brion.                        canon,. the clatter of hoofs arrested their own-
"They won't do it, even if the alternative be tion.  The sounds came from bevye l a small
presented ; they've* got their minds puffed up strip of timber forty or fifty rots ahead, and
with ideas of treasure and sudden wealth, and  presently two persons tnricaa the wood and
that's a hard ntion to get rid on. They'll in- drew in sight.ey
amt on the original project." ,Inti                  -" .        Buc.e,,.
" As long as they think there's any truth in  " No," reply Bd Eion. " one is a  ngr."
it," said Brion.                      .            ,Ad te other is an Ingin woman or gal, or
" And Miariot won't tell 'em he's lied, in a sotmetiim of that nature
hurr."                                       "I t would seem so," said the partisan ob-
rell, they have provoked their fate wot  serving the advancing persons sharply.  " At
ever it may be. My party is minus thirteen  all events, their intentions are not hostile,. he
men ; thirteen from seventy-two leaves fifty- added.
nine."                                       "By the beard of Smith !" ctied Buckeye,
" You've list thirteen mlen, but your band " that nigger feller is ridin' the same htoss tia~t
isn't weakened; it's streneitheed, because the that youngster iode who fell in with us other
remainder are diseip!int.d somewhat, have ex- day."
perience, and e-r be commanded. Men that     "The resemblance is striking," I confess,"
won't be mwx erned ain't the kind for your pur- returned Brion.
pose. cap n."*                                 "Thee's no resemblance about it; is the
1I.uile this scene was transpiring, the main  same," rejoined the other..
body of the party were quietly eating break-  "It is very possible," rejoined the partisan.
fast around their respective fires.          The objects of these iem aks approatieel.
The sun was rising above the level of the  "Are you looking , cap'n?" asked Buckeye,
eastern prairies ; he eame up like a ball of hi- in a low voice.,
qmid ire.  Soft and grateful zephyrs, bearing  "I am," said Brion.
aromatic odors, breathed around the mountain--  "Isn't she oncommnon ? what a face ! what a
eer as he walked thoughtflly about the, en- figure. what an eye !"
eampment. giving orders. The events of the   " Handsome,certainly," returned the partisan.
morning had induced him to change his mind   "Bewitchin', cap'n " added Buckeye, with
in regard to hunting the buffalo.  His camp  increasing enthusiasm.
was in a situation too much exposed to be left  " Beware that you do not fall in love with
in charge of ausmall party, which would neces- this Indian beauty," said Brion, playfully.
sarily be the case, should he send out twenty  - " I sha'n't make no promises, 'cause love 'II
or thirty of'his band to hunt.  He, therefore, go where it's sent. Flash, you rascal, prick
formed the resolution of moving forward to a ul your ears and cut a caner' ,
C non a few miles farther on  Once in pos-    lash, in obedience to itmaster's mandate,
s-Wsion of the canon, lie could hold his ground  and quickened, perchance, y the spur, reared
against a large body of enemies with half his and caracoled coltishly.
e niltiny ; but he was suspicious that it was  " Now's yet time, cap'n," continued the trap-
oceu pied by savages, who were waiting a favor- per, " to make an impression. Put on the iron
able opportunity to attack them, either while and show off; these Ingin gals are 'nmazin fond
they were hunting or scattered on the march, of horsemanship."
and unprepared for resistance  This suspicon  " Beavers and otters!" exclaimed Bicke 'e,
was produced by, what he had heard when lia- " the gal don't ride like one of the heathen

50

_ ,
7

riptiles. She sets oa sideways jes' like a con-
varted Christian female. Beard of the prophet
Saith ! but jsn't it sing'lar ?"
"She sisgrtacefuiy, i sure," said Brion.
"As a queen !" quoth Buckeye.
.If the appearance of the Indian maiden pro -
duced such a marked effect-upon Buckeye,
what must have been the emotions of Brion,
who believed that in her he recognized the face
and form of Mignon ? The wonderful diselo-
sures of the previous night had prepared the
way to such a recognition. Having seen the
features of Balaam, he was not one to forget
them ; and he was well, assured, by the few
words he heard him utter on that occasion,
that he would never be found far from his
young mistress. The bosom of the mountain-
eer was agitated by doubt, love, fear, admira-
tion.  Mignon 'approached, while Balaam
checked his horse and fell in the rear. When
near enough, she raised her eyes, and asked:
" Is not this Captain Brion, the partisan of
the American Fur Company ?"
"Yes," said trion, respectfully.
"I have that to say which must be my ex-.
cuse for appearing before you in this garb, and
under circumstances so peculiar," she added,
averting her eyes, her cheeks becoming sud-
denly suffused.
Brion's brave heart Teat rapidly.  The mo-
desty and heroism of Mignon charmed him
He thought of what she had done, and the
dangers she had dared. And for what had she
tempted such perils?  The query came with
stunning force. What but love makes woman
bold ?        -
" You need no excuse for appearing before
Ben Brion," he replied, with warmth. "Your
wishes shall be my commands; you have only
to name them. I beg of you to be frank, and
trust me as if we had) met and established an
acquaintance."
Mignon looked inquiringly at the partisan
to learn if his words had other significance
than what they seemed to have upon their sur-
face.
"My communications will consist simply of
vague warnings, which I fear will appear inde-
finite and unsatisfactory," Mignon resumed.
" Such apprehenlions do injustice to my na-
ture," said Brion.
"So I shall endeavor to persuade - myself,"
continued Mignon, with captivating ingenuous-
ness. "I love to think well of humanity ; I
have pleasure in seeing poor human nature ex-
alted.  I will-to employ a Jewish simile--
deal .frankly and truly with thee, though it
may cost me pain and confusion. You won-
der why I am here ; it is to warn you of the
danger of which I have spoken, this is why I
am before you."
" For me !" exclaimed Brion, astounded at
such a declaration.
" Hear me ; the danger which threatened

you compromised the honor of ae who it
dear to me," rejoined Mignon.
If the declaration she had first made filled,
him with hope, the, last avoval dispelled it.
One who was " dear to her!"  Alh, tiat must
be a lover or a husband!I
"You are the victim of a wicked scheme,
which has for its object the destruction of your
party. The man to whomi belongs the pater
nity of this plot, will not fail through softness
of heart or scruples of conscience."
"May I ask his name ?"
" I cannot tell you-it would involve at -
other. If I can defeat him without exposing
him, I will."
" He is Pierre Mariot," said Brion.
Mignon grew pale.
"It is too true," she answered "You have
discovered the secret."
"I even know you," resumed the mouutainl-
eer.
Mignon looked up in alarm.
" Will you speak my name ?" she added.
" Mademoiselle Bellmar; those to whom
friendship gives the right to address you fa-
miliarly, call you Mignon."
Mignon's face became crimson. A lovelier
countenance could not have been presented to
the gaze of the mountaineer. His sympathies.
his love, his soul itself, seemed to pass over to
Mignon.   He idealized her perfections, he
spiritualized her beauty. The conquest which
began at Westport, was now complete. Mig-
non became all that was divine in woman.
Brion wished to kneel at her feet and do ho-
mage.                             0
" You are right," she responded, pensively.
" And do you remember that we once met ?"
"Well, it was at night; you laid ue- under
obligations which I shall not forget."
" And did you imagine that I could forget.,
Mademoiselle Bellmar ? Pardon my boldness,
but your.idea has been with me ever since. I
have thought of you on the march-I have
dreamed of you while sleeping on the prairies.
And you are here before me! Oh ! this cannot
be reality--this is the veriest hallucination !"
At first,.Brion fixed his eyes on the maiden's
face, but, startled at his own temerity, he al-
lowed them to pink till they rested upon Mig-
non's little foot. Mademoiselle felt the blood
glowing in her cheeks, and dancing through
her swelling veins preternaturally quick.
" There will be time for gallant speeches
when we meet under different circumstances,"
she resumed, with dignity, casting off her wo-
manly weakness.
"I crave pardon; but I never speak what I
do not mean."
," And what is it that you mean?" she asked,
with asperity.
- "Since you are offended, I dare not confess.
It were more becoming to thank you for the
undeserved exertions you have made in nmy be.

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.


TIl BUCICIIrE IIAN GAP.

5!~i                     TI'IIE BU(11KEY'lE IIA.NGER.

half. Mademoiselle, I know not how to clothe
my feelings of gratitude in words."
"I will spare you the trouble," said Mignon,
with a smile, extending her hand to him.
" I swear, by this hand, to be the most de-
voted of your friends--to sacrifice life, every-
thing. to secure your safety."
" That is much, and unasked, too ; for I did
not come like love-torn damsel seeking adven-
turous knight."
Mignon pronounced these words with a smile
on her lips, but in a tonesomewhat indicative
Of injured pride, which'the partisan did not
fail to notice.
"   c cherish no thoughts 'or feelings not to
your favor," he said, quickly. "I entertain
for you the profoundest respect. Nevpr, I
trust, will you have reason to blush for word,
or act of mine, or regret the step you have
taken to ward off pressing danger. Chance
has already made me acquainted with the na-
ture of the peril that impends. Mariot'is in-
deed a villain, and it is truly unfortunate that
a man like Monsieur Bellmar, your father-
of w hose name I have heard honorable men-
ti,-should be connected with him in busi-
- tone can regret itmore deeply than I; it
ai orig been a source of pain,"
" 1 am willing to absolve Monsieur Bellmar
from all participation in this scheme for the
destruction of my band, and the injury of my
employers."
-- You do him no more than justice; he is
anxious that the designs of Mariot should come
to niaught."            .
 He was acquainted with those designs, it
would seem ?"
11 ignon was embarrassed; she withheld a
por; ion of the truth to screen hime from the im-
putationm of guilt.
" I  tcaned to hear," she said, " a conversa-
tiont it inten-ied for my ears, which made me
a parry to his purposes. Being in possession
of his secret, it was natural Ishould disclose it
to mve father "
" Very true," said Brion, "and for his sake
I doubt not you have accomplished this peril-
ous pilgrimage."
' res, it is so ; you construe me truly and
generously. I would do much rather than
have my father's name linked with infamy."
- That expression does you much honor, and
raises you still higher in my esteem. Having
done ail you can do, it is probable that you
wish to return ; is it so ?"
" I put myself under your protection until
I shall be so fortunate as to meet a party re-
turning from the mountains, then I snal go
back."
"To afford you every assistance in my
power will be but a meagre testimonial of myt
gratitude. I have duties to perform requiring

my immediate attention ; but I will first con
duct-you to camp."
"Is it far, captain ?"
" You see yonder hill; it is at the right of
that."
" Then I need not trouble you to go back ;
Balaam will easily find.it."
Brion demurred at this, arrangement, but
Mignon was firm-insisting that the way was
short, and their acquaintsidee should not com-
menee with taking him from his duties"
"Besides," she added, looking kindly at IiS
black, " Balaam is as good as a regiment.' 'B-
laam was flattered ; shaking his brawny urm.
he declared himself a "host" in the defence of
his mistress.
" There's a cretur among us," quoth Buck-
eye, "that none of us can guard against."
" Redpath?" said Mignon.
"That's the nat'ral varmint I mean," re-
turned Buckeye.
"I do not fear Redpath, even; I wear a
charm," Mignon rejoined.
" You wear a good many charms, miss, that
are jes' calkilated to turn a feller's head e'ena.-
most," Buckeye replied, casting afurtive glance
at the partisan.
"I refer to a special charm," resumed Mig-
non, blushing, ".which will guard me in the
hour of danger."
"For me there's no charm like your beauty,
miss, and to protect that, I'd stan' afore an army
of savage riptjps like Redpath."
" Oh, you are sincere, I'm sure 1 so I thank
you, and will proceed."
" Remember directions-bear well to the
right. If no accident occurs, I will be with
you soon."  Then, to Balaam: "Tell my men
that you met their leader, and he expects thent
to treat this young lady with respeet."
Yes, massa, I'll spoke dat to 'em." said Ba.
laam.
"I was correct," affirmed Buckeye. when
Mignon was out of hearing, "about the black
hoss."
"'I think you were, really," Brion replied.
" One thing I should like to know," added
the trapper.
"Well?"
"The youngster's name that used to rile
the cretur which now carries that dusky hea-
then."
" Crevier.  Confess that you did not like
him ?"
"He appeared foppish; but between you and
I, I mistrusted that it was a woman the minute
I put my eyes on him.     -
'".I cannot give you credit, for so much per-
spicacity. Had you been suspicious of her
sex. your bearing would have been less relpul-
sive. Your gallantry I cannot doubt,, since
you passed your compliments upon yonder
young lady so adroitly. If you go on in that

way, by my faith, Buckeye, you will prove a
dangerous rival!"
The trapper drew up his shoulhrs signifi-
cantly.
".ilidr'k mean you should get ahead of me,
caprn, though you're very fluent in speech;
but by the heard of Smith! you made a plump
declaration I"
" I hope I was not guilty of such folly," said
Brion, lting his lip.
"'That oncomrnon cretur would make any
man commit iridiscretions, cap'n. Them eyes
of hern-l shine afore tme for the next twenty-
founr hours like di'imons. Ani perhaps you
did n't notice the little foot, no longer than a
dolls ?'
Perhaps not," said the mountaineer, drily.,
" Her hauds are like fairies' hands," persist
ed Buckeye
"You are observing, my friend."
"1And her smile is of a heavenly natur," said
Buekey e, perseveringly.
"-Be quiet; look yonder, just' where those
bushes skirt the plateau and tell me if you see
aught that is suspicious ?"
" I see a motionless object, that seems, from
this distance,'like a stick or a stone."
" Watch it a moment."
"It moves a little ; it's a riptile-one of
the ouregenerate pa motions of this great ken-
try I"
" Let us move that way ; perchance we may
stir up a nest of them. I have known one to
stand like a fixture, while several of his com-
utnions were concealed in the surrounding
thickets. It may be thus in the present in-
stance "
Bentling somewhat to the left, that their ad-
vanice rnigt he covered by an arm of timber
reaching out into the prairie, the (wary trap-
pers aIproached the suspicious object., which,
after all, eight prove a wolf or a buffalo ; for
the space intervening was yet considerable.
Keeping a careful watch in every direction
where they supposed it possible an enemy
could hbe concealed, they soon turned the tim--
ber; but that which had drawn their scrutiny
was no longer in sight ; it had vanished in the
wood, sank into the earth, or was hidden in
the grass.
"We were seen, you perceive," said Brion.
"Our design was fathomed before we changed
our course - But what is this upon this tree ?
A human figure carved in the bark I"
The mountaineers rode to the tree, and ex-
amined the carving, which was yet fresh.
",Not ten minutes have elapsed since the edge
of the knife left these lines," said Brion.
"Not five," said Buckeye. "The sap yet
flows from the wounds. Now this wasn't made
for nothin'; there's meanin' to it, as there is
about everythin' an Ingin does."

" Possibly it was cut merely for amusement,"
replied the partisan.
"No, sir; depend on't there's some deviltry
in it."
" The handiwork of Redpat.h," answered
Brion, with a smile and an incredulous lIok.
" It wouln'tbestrange, though l don't think
the cretur finds time for tuch fancy-work of
this particular description."   -
" It strikes me; Buckeye, that you really fear
this incomprehensible Redpath."
".Fear is a word I don't'very much ike,.
cap'n, even from you. I'll thank you to find
the man who'll call me a coward to mv faee.
As for Redpatli, he's like.nobwdy else--a sort
of Ingin devil, that baffles the wisest of us ;
but I'm  not afraid of him-no, not by no
means; and in fact I should like to meet him
face to face, as one brave man meets another.
I would put a good American rifle-ball through
his body ; I would kill him as I would a wolf,
and his accursed art and mystery would perish
with him."
The mountainers were bending over their
horses' necks, looking at the figure ; the air
was slightly disturbed, and something passed
between them and struck the object at which
they were looking with a sharp concussiu.
Both instinctively drew back--a long arrow
was quivering in the tree. For a momnut,
Brion was too much astonished to speak or to
act.
"By the beard of Smith!" said Buckeye.
The sound of his voice aroused the partisan;
putting spurs to his horse, he dashed toward
the timber.
"By heavens!" he muttered. "I will make
an attetnpt to solve this mystery."
He urged his horse into the wood. which,
being free from underbush, offered but little im-
pediment ; he galloped through and around it,
and came back with his animal heated and
foaming.
" Why db you sit motionless?   Why not
make an effort to find this invisible, archer ?"
asked the.trapper.
" A  sense of gratitude fastens me here,
cap'n."
"A  sense of gratitude?. I do not under-
stand."
" It is jes' here ; consider, and you'll. per-
ceive that the arm that sent that shaft directly
to the head of that figure, could as easily have
sent it through your head or mine."
" That is a very just conclusion, Buckeye. I
(lid not pause to think of nice points ; but in-
deed I could scarcely find it in my heart to
draw a hair-sight on one, who, having my life
in his power, did not take it. In this you have
acted wisely. Yesthe eye that aimed that arrow
could have aimed it at a human brain instead
of an insentient one like that. What a narrow
boundary lies between us and death I"


54                TUE BULTKEYEA    E                           RANGER

"Scarcely wider than the edge of my bunt-
in'-ktnifh"
Alh, Buckeye, we must travel that trail
sorret ) eit'!"
"A strange road-a strange road ! And it's
been used a good deal. too."
- Death is, at times, a cold and awful mys-
terv to me; but niot always. What is it to
you ?
" I e pect my mind is a dark and ignorant
one. but, it too often seems to mne an eternal
sleep. Perchance, I shall go back to element-
al dust, and he as I was a thousand years
a-ro- a little matter in motion, only changin'
forrm "
" That isnot the nost cheerful belief imagin-
able, but far better than a future of pain."
While Brion was thus conversing, his hands
were not idle; he was cutting the arrow from
the tree ' with his hatchet--which, when ex-
tracted. lie examined with a feeling of intense
curio ity. The sharp, polished, tapering steel
head. dtlientely small, the lang, smooth shaft
attached. had for him a peculiar interest--con-
nected as they were, with the fate of Town-
send and Minten, Stringer and Grenier.
"It is wondrously well wrought," he re-
mirked
,-A ud narveliously well-sped, toot" added
13nekeye.
'- I will keep it as a memento of Redpath."
" Also to make you think, perhaps, that the
rate to it is kept for you, and you will some
time receive it."                      '
The auon w as now near at hand, and as

they drew in sight of it, the partisan saw a
human form standing upon the summit of a
high cliff, which he quickly pointed out to the
trapper. The sun was shining upon the jagged
elevation gloriously, making the figure appear
as if clothed in garments of flarme  le gazed
down upon the horsemen a moment, waved his
hand, and disarpearld.
Brien looked inquiringly at his companion.
" It nay be the Evil One himself ; he shone
like a pillar of fire !" suggested Buckeye.
" His majesty has a majestic figure. then ?"
" He can assume any shape, undoubtedly."
The mountaineers entered the canon, and
passed through it ; it sheltered no visible ene-
my, and they turned their horses' heads toward
the encampment of the previous night. Brion
entirely absorbed in thought.
" Do you know," said Buckeye, interrupting
his reverie, " that Redpath is not the only one
among us'that is dangerous? There is one
who aims not at the head, but at the heart,
and her arrows go straight as a rifle-ball."
Brion writhed under the trapper's raillery,
-but deemed it wisest to keep silent.
"And yet this fair archer, though she doesn't
aim at the head, affects the brain not a little
with her pretty arrows, which are launched
from her sparklin' eyes."
The mountaineer confessed, internally, that
there was truth in this metaphor, inasmuch as
the insidiously wounding weapons of Mignon
were vibrating beneath his hunting frock, at
the very centre of a great and active muscle,
which is indispensable to life.1

CHAPTER X.
A SACRIFICE TO THE CORN-SPIRIT.
Mignon and the black intended to follow the
directions of Brion to the letter ; but notwith-
standing his instructions to keep to the right,
Balaam unwittingly took the left side of the
h;i. They had made half the circuit of the hill
before the consequences of their inattention
were apparent. A vell recalled Balaam to the,
outer waking work---rudely, it must be con-
fessed, but effectually. Mignon wag the first
to realize the misfortune that had befallen
them. She perceived around her a'circle of
dusky men, armed with spears, knives, and
guns: she had fallen into an ambuscade of In-
dians. The discovery was one to try the firm-
est nerves. Balaam, seeing a red hand grasp
his horse's bridle, thought it time to bestir
himsel f ; with a sweep of-his long arm he felled
the offender, then disengaging a small axe
which was secured at his saddle, and in the use
of which he was practiced, he struck down an-.
other savage, and prepared for a sturdy defence
of his mistress. Enraged at his resistance, they
swarmed upon him in overwhelming numbers,
with lp)ud, vindictive whoops.
For s time the giant strength of the black
prevailed, his weapon gleaming around him in
rapid circles, scattering his foes ; but anon a
hatchet hurled by a warrior took effect upon
his head. The faithful negro cast a despairing
look at Mignon, and lost his seat in the saddle ;
but when upon the ground, he sprang up and
shook himself like a lion; then even Mignon
believed he might prove unconquerable . He
struck a few blows, then sank upon one knee,
yet continuing to resist and defy them in his
own peculiar way. Perceiving that his strength
was failing, he turned his eyes toward his be-
loved mistress.
" The red niggers bab fixed me-God bress
ye, missy I" he said, and fell forward upon'his
face. The infuriated savages would have man-
gled and mutilated his body-=-but their chief

commanded them to desist, adding-that cow-
ards might be hacked and cut in pieces, but
not brave men who sell their lives dearly.
This humane Indian, however, did not waive
the established usage of his race, and in a mo-
ment held up poor Balaam's. scalp.  At the
eight of this reeking trophy, Mignon swooned.
When she recovered, she was seated at the foot
of a tree, her body supported by the trunk.
The natives were grouped together a few paces
distant, speaking earnestly in their own dialect,
which sounded harsh and horrible to Mignon.
There seemed to be a division of opinion among
them, which was finally settled, as she judged,
by the altered tones of their voices. The chief
came and looked at her attentively.
" You wear," he said, in English so broken
that we shall not attempt to give it verbatim,
"the garb of a princess of the Blackfoot na-
tion, but your skin is pale. The Blackfoot and
the Crow are enemies ; they hate each other--
they go to war and take scalps-they put their
prisoners to death.  Pale faced woman, you
must die I"
" Do the warriors of the Crow nation wage
war against women ?" asked Mignon, striving
to rally her courage.
" They destroy their enemies," returned the
chief.
" Enemies are those who take the war-path ;
the women of the pale-face nation never go
upon the war-path ; they love peace and re-
main at home."
" Then why art thou here ?" said the chief,
quickly.
" Not to take life, but to save it," Mignon
answered
" Like all your craven race, you shrink from
death."
"And why should I not?  Am I not young,
and does not the young heart cling to exis-
tence ? Women die well when the Great Spirit
calls ; but they draw back front violence and
blood."
." The Great Spirit calls you now."
"I cannot hear him."
"He calls you through my voice ; he bids
you get ready."

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.           55

E
c


56

" The Crows'are cowards, or they would not though their progress was slow. The gloom
kill women ; brave men- hold such deeds in lest night that Mignon ever experienced ap-
horror," rejoined Mignon,                 proached, and with it came clouds and a shower
" Pale maiden, it is better to die oung than of rain, attended with thunder and lightning.
old.  If you go to the land of souls now, you Tallbear ordered a halt, watching the heavens
will remain young and beautiful forever ; but with anxious expression.
if you hive till you are old and wrinkled,,you  "The Great Spirit is angry," said Mignon,
will enter that country as such, and continue hoping to turn the elemental strife to her ad-
so."                                      vantage.
" Hear me : I have a father who has much  "Yes," answered the chief. "he is angry be-
gold ; he has .a trading-house beyond yonder cause the sacrifice is delayed."
mountains, where he keeps the things most   "Not so; but for the reason that such a fear-
valued by red men ; go there with me, and you ful rite is contemplated. While rebuking your
shall be made rich above all your tribe."  wickedness with the thunder and lightning, ie
The Indian paused a moment, as if meditating  at the same time gives you rain to refresh your
uponewhat he had heard, and Mignon began to corn, and prove to you that he can make it
hope.                                     grow without your aid."
" You shall have guns that never miss their  At that instant there was a terrific explosion,
aim,, ammunition to last your life-time, blan- and the red, quivering lightning played around
kets that defy the snows of the coldest winter, them. The ground trembled with the violence
and horses that are swifter than the antelope, of the concussion. A large tree was shivered
and stronger than the buffalo. With these you from its, topmost branches to the roots, while
can make wai- upon the Bllackfeet, and conquer an Indian who had been standing beneath it
them."                                    was stricken lifeless  Tallbear was awed. Ig-
S" Pale-faces have artful tongues, and the red  norant of Nature and her laws, thunder and
man cannot tell when they speak the truth. lightning to) him had supernatural origin, and
What you say sounds well, but you might lead indicated the displeasure of the Master of Life.
us into the strong forts of the whites, where  " Behold," cried Mignon, "the avenging arm
we should be slain by the thunder of the great of God I , He has turned his hand against you ;
guns. - I have- listened to you too long. .The he has smitten one of your braves. He is just,
c rn-spirit requires an offering, and he will he does well; to him [ commend my soul. Red
not he content save with a young and beauti- man, hear his awful voice and tremble ! His
ful maiden, such as thou art."            mighty car is rolling through the skies, and the'
" Will the manner of my death be painful ?" heavens quake. He is over our heads-he is
Mignon asked.                             seeing us--is fires are burning in their with
"White .maiden, it will be painful, but not dreadful vehemence."
of long duration," said the Crow. " In the land  While Mignon was speaking, lambrent flames
of souls you will forget your sufferings, and re- darting from above played around her pale
juice to see the corn growing green and tall to cheeks. Tallbear recoiled, contem plating her
feed our hungry children."              , with pallid visage and parted lips
" It is horrible I" exclaimed Mignon.     " Pale-face woman, thou art a great medi-
" It is naught compared to the torture of cine I" he exclaimed.
three days, when twelve fires are lighted, and " I am," she resumed, with more impressive'
all the a-t of inflieting pain are exhausted," he emphasis, "but a perishable creature like thee,
replied, his face glowing with savage ferocity  but [have skill in interpreting the will of the
at the recollection, of the scenes he had wit- Great Spirit. I know what he desires of his
nes"-d.                                   children ; and there is that within that tells me
With these words he left her and issued or- when his power wilt go forth in fearful fury to
ders which she could notunderstand. Present- rebuke blood-thirsty warriors, and lay low ar-
ty she was placed upon her horse, and the rogant chieftains. 'Tallbear, listen ! the Master
party set off toward the mountains.  Mignon of Life threatens I  Hear his stern menace in
turned a last lingering look toward the hill the affrighted heavens !"
w here she had expected to find friends and  The maiden paused, and peal on peal shook
safety.                                   the mountains, while electrical flasles blazed
She submitted to her captors with the help- blendingly around their summits, stream inag
less passiveness of despair, her bowed head and down into the valley below in red-hot cbains-
drooping form testifying to her deep despon-  "It is thus," continued Mignon, with solen-
dency.                                    nity, "that the God of the white man and the
The Indians did not address her, and the trail red manifests his indignation and his might I"
to the nearest Crow village was traced silent-  The braves threw themselves prostrate upon
ly. Tullbear, the chief, kept near her person, the earth, covering their eyes with their hads.-
setting an example of taciturnity which was Tallbear only remained standing, he bowed hie
followed by his warriors.                 head upon his breast submissively.
They pressed forward without stopping,.   ' White woman, if the Master of Life is a

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

gry, what shall Tallbear do to turn aside h.
displeasure !" he asked.
".I will ask him," said Mignon, closing he
eyes and.crossing her arms upon her breast
she remained silent a few moments, then a
dressing the clief-
"iThe answeris (looking steadily at Tallbear
offer no more bloody sacrifices to the cor
spirit, for there is -but one God that preside
over all-things. and he is the Master of Life.'
""Inquire yet again, and ask him what Isha
do with the pale-face woman ?"
Mignon perceived that all depended on th
skillfulness of her reply ; she had reached th
most delicate and critical point of her purpose
She closed her' ey es, and crossed her arm
again, to gain time to form a fitting answer.
"Finu a wornarf arioong your people who ha
lost a daughter, and let her adopt the child o
the pale-face," she said.
This reply was jprdicious, for the suspicion
of Tallbear might have been aroused, had sh
demanded her liberty at once.
"I will send for our medicine-men, and the3
shall fast three days and see if the Great Spiri
will confirm this," returned the Indian.
" The Master of Life speaks but once to man
he never repeats !" exclaimed Mignon, with
dignirv arid earnestness wondrous to Tallbear
- ' That is well ; he never repeats," he said
thenr I making searehingly at his captive, added
4And he never denies!"
"Anil he never denies," repeated Mignon, in
the same tone.  " But it becomes the awfu
lDeity to remain silent when he has once de.
clarr-d his sovereign will to man.",
"Speak again to the Great Spirit and ask if
the prrisoner will atteinpt to escape ?"
Mi rnon saw at once the subtlety of this pro.
position.
Shave done." she said ; "his presence is
dep artinerr--hi chariot-wheels are,rolling over
the" rsrrnrit-ring. Be content and humble. Speak
to re noi mre-I am dumb." Mignon turned
ier back to Tallbear, and assumed her former
silent arind hopeless attitude. Tallbear walked
away, and sated himself apart from his braves,
apparently in a thoughtful mood.
In half aIiur the storm passed ; the rain
ceased falling, the thunder was heard faintly
rumbling at a great distance, while tre liht-
nins blazedl against the far-off sky with dimin-
ished- brightness.
The party went on again, and in two house
drew in sight of a Crow village in view of
which theyhalted-it being their  uston wvie
they had lost warriors rot to enter thr village
on their return, without an invitation from the
friends of the slain. Tse dogs gave notice of
their approach, and in a short time the sleepy
natives were astir, making suitable prepara-
tions to receive their warriors, who, after con-
siderable delay, were formally invited to enter
the town. Mignon, though an object of much

I

is curiosity, was treated with respect. The tent
which the unfortunate Balraam had succeeded
er in securing when his mistress left Callard's en.
; eampment, was taken from the horse, u pon
d- which it had been carefully packed, and set  i
for her exclusive use by Tallbear, wlho clearly
), intended to treat her with distinction until her
n- fate should be decided by the A-medicine-Men."
rs   The latter were called together early in the
morning.   The chief made them acquainted
11 with his original intention of s-crificing Mig-
non to placate the corn-spirit, with what sub-
.e sequently occurred during the storm of thun-
e der, and his own determination to refer th~s
a. matter to those skilled in the ways of the in-
s visible powers.
"Now go," .he added, "and have lodges
s built in some lonely spot, and fast according to
if your custom, and thus learn the will f the
Manito of your people.'"
s    Whetherit was that the " nmediciue-n'ri' hal
e no. relish for fasting three days, or whet tier
they believed they had seen alriadv intrnted,
we are not able to avow ; hut lovie dichr-i
t t that the Master of Life had eniligiteirn'-1 iheir
minds in dreams and visions ; anid after a little
time, if left undisturbed, they world rnke
a known his wishes.   The three medicine-n
accordingly withdrew to a lodge. which ev ry
person was forbidden to approrcr  Pres-nit ly,
' Mignon heard the sound of an Enlian drim,
and frantic yells proceeding frorr the lo.s',
and shuddered to think such w'retehes were to
l decide her fate. They continued f(heir orgirs
some hours-a period of dreadful anxiety to
Mignon, w-ho, solitary in her tent, was await-
f ing the conclusion of'the rites.
Mignon's father was a Catholic ; hut she hail
been educated in the Protestant religion,in har.-
many with the views of her deceased eother-;
and she now sought the cons nations of the
Christian faith. Sire petitioned God with I hat
contrite fervor that her condition wis so well
calculated  to  .waken, seeking  that calin
strength, 'that unshrinking fortitude, He only
can impart.    .
"Daughter of the pale face, come!" said a
voice.
.It was Tallbear who spoke ; he had come to
conduct her to hear the verdict otte rsieniraine
men. Shre found'tire Irndians assermblled sirsa
plateau near the village, in close ne iirihorho, ii
to a large field of corn. She followed winth
modest and melanely mien . her sauty arid
grace attracting much attention and rernark.
-Thre medicine-men were in a circle, fosrmsed iry
the principal men of the village; next ire lit-
ter, were the braves ; while the third and last
ring was composed of women and children--a
motley, clamorous rabble.
When Mignon reached the central circle.
where the three prophets were awaiting her,
Tallbear addressed them :
" What," he asked, "says the Manito of the
Crow Nation?"

I

I

THE BUCFEYE RANGER.

57


THE 1UCKEYE.R ANGE-                           T

" That the love of life iu strong and all Wish
to live to enjoy summer and, sunshine"
Mignon heard the rejoinder, and though she
had made up her mind for the worst, hope re-
vived a little. "Summer and sunshine !"
These words had a meaning they never before
possessed. She could not refrain from raising
her eyes toward the glorious luminary-the
eternal lamp of Nature. The refulgent beams,
gleamed as brightly upon her as in the days oft
her childhood, before she understood the mean-
ing of the word "death."   A gentle breeze
from the West blew on her face and toyed with
her hair.
" O God!"'she exclaimed, " why can I not
enjoy this forever ? Why hast thou placed the
grave before mortals, and called them to a bap
tism of pain ?"
"6Go on," said Tallbear.
"And he added, moreover," resumed the
spokesman of the medicine-men, " that he
speaketh in thunder and fire ; that he createth
all things, and causeth the Indian corn to
grow."
" I am saved !" thought Mignon. '"God will
spare my youth !'
The prophet went on:
"But lest' he might sometime forget the
corn, he has given it in charge of a powerful
spirit, whose duty it is to watch over it night
and day. The pale-face woman has said that
the Master of Life loveth not blood, but it
was the God of the white man that told her
so."
"There is but one God 1" said Mignon,.who
saw her last hope passing away.
"The red man does not serve the God of the
pale.-faces," returned the prophet. "Every
nation has its deity, and no two are alike. 'We
follow the voice of the Great Spirit, and no
other will we hear. Behold what he has given
us! Look at the boundless hunting-grounds,
the mighty plains, the shaded valleys, the
green forests which he has kindly bestowed
upon us. White woman, the Indian did not
make himself; but one greater than he made
him, with all his instincts. Can his nature
change ?  Can he be other than he is?  Who
faults him will offend the greatand eternal Mas-
ter of Life. See me-regard me-study me!
I am what I am, not because I had any voice
in it, but because a will stronger than mine ex.
isting before I had consciousness, willed it so. -
My face is red-my -nature is not soft and weak
like yours ; it does not love cities and the arts
of your people-it has joy in the hunt, and on
the war-path. And why?     Because it is so
decreed. I am   an* Indian, and I thank the
Great Spirit that I am I Thus, you see, the
Power that created me reconciles me to be
what r am; therefore, He is wise. It is so
with you. You will act true to your nature,
and I shall to mine.* The manners and customs
of nations differ. Our ways seem barbarous to

vou, and yours are contemptible to us. Pale
girl, the corn-spirit is thirsty, we will give him
drink."
"Last night, the Great Spirit sent rain," said
Mignon.
- He drinks not water," said the prophet.
" Oh, it is vain to struggle against fate !' ex-
claimed Mignon
" Vain indeed !" added the Indian, in a deep,
sepulchral voice.  "Could those towering
mor'ntains have resisted the will that placed
them there for a barrier between us and the
sea? Could the snow have helped falling upon
their summits ? Could you have struggled
against his hand when he took up the dust to
form  you?  Know, 0    fair daughter of a
hated race, that all things are ordered, and not
anything can change. , It being destined that
you shall die, how can mortal power make you
live ? Cease to struggle, and meet calmly a
fate that you cannot resist ; this is the lesson
taught by everything in Nature. Because you
are a woman, and your flesh is tender and
shrinks from pain, the Master of Life sends you
an easy death."
The prophet made a sign to Tallbear, who
approached with a small cord, composed of the
inner bark of a tree.
For an instant, Mignon experienced a fearful
shrinking, and a sickening agony of spirit ; but
conquering measurably her weakness, she
looked at the chief, and demanded, in a voice
quite free fromnagitation:._
"What is the manner of my death ?"
" It is quick-and easy; an arrow will pierce
your bosom, and you will be in the spirit-land
of your fathers before one of yonder clouds
can pass over the sun's face," he replied.
" It is well-I am ready ; but do not muti-
late my person. Bury -my body on one of
yonder high cliffs, where the same sun that
shines upon the wigwam of my father may
shine on my ashes !" said Mignon, submissive-
ly.
Tallbear came near to bind her hands.
" Take away the cord ; since there is to be
no torture, no protracted agoriy, to bind me
were useless. Tell me where to stand,- and I
will present my breast to your  arksman."
"Pale girl, you have courage,'said Tallbear,
in a low tone. "I would save you if I could,
for your voice has a wondrous melody in it,
and your beauty is -like that of the spirit-
maidens in the far lard of souls. Maiden, the
arrow that enters your bosom will give pain to
the heart of Tallbear. But the Great Spirit is
wise. It is better that you should be taken
from my eight."
Then, in a louder voice :
"Daughter of the Longlnives, we will not
send you unprovided to the land of Shadows,
your horses shall go with, and your beautiful
lodge, that you may have a horse to'ride, and
a lodge to dwell in."

58

Tallbear waved his hand, and the circling
horde of warriors, women, and children open-
ed before him.
"Look !" said he, pointing through the nar-
row lane thus made,'" yonder are your horses,
and your lodge has been taken down and
packed upon them.    When you rach the
country (if spirits, you will not have long to
wait for your horses ; you will find everything
as it was in this world, and the black man
with the strong arms will be there to attend
you; he is waiting you now; when he sees
your large horse, he will hasten to prepare
him for your tuse, and,lie will hang your little
rifle at the saddle, if' you should want to hunt
the deer "
Mignon saw the animals at a short distance,
prepared as for a journey. The one she usual-
ly rode, seeing his mistress, erected his ears
and neighed-a proof of affection which called
tears to her eyes. With a parting glance at
the noble creature that had borne h.,e uncom-
plainingly so many miles. she submitted herself
to the cottiinands of Tallbear.,.
t Place me quickly, and let it be soon over,"
she said.
The chief led her to the centre of the cir-
cle.
"This is the spot. Here is a bandage to
cover your eyes  Your heart is not big enough
to see the how bent and the arrow pointed;
you will shrink and run away, or swoon with
terror."  , '
"I will do neither; since .it is my duty to
die, I will die as becomes the daughter of the
great pale-face nation."
There was a general murmur of approba-
tion.  -
" It is good," said Tallbear.
Then, in a whisper
4 Never had the corn-z pirit a more beautiful
offering. Your eyes are like those of the deer
when the hunter's. knife is at its throat, hang-
ing over its small neck. Pale girl; you have
power over Tallbear !"
The Indian gazed a moment at Mignon with
a softened expression-his strong hand trem-
bled while placing her in the attitude deemed
fitting-and more than once he hesitated and
looked at the horses; some half-formed pur-
pose appeared to agitate him.
"Mailen, be firm-the way to the land of
souls is toward the West, and your swift horses
will fly like birds along the path."
With a heavy breath, much like a sigh of re-
gret, the chief left Mignon, who .stood with
her face toward the open space in the circle.
The ribbon or scarf of high-colored stuff which
covered the upper portion of her person, was
suffered to fill a little upon the left side, while
over the breast she placed the gift of Raven-
claw-a raven wrought in beads.
" Let your bowman aim at this ; my heart
is beneath it," she said, with a calmaess that

surprised the grim warriors, and raised an-
other hum of admiration.
A sinewy Indian walked through the living
avenue, and appeared at the margin of the se-
cond circle. He carried' a long-bow in his
right hand, which, when held vertically beside
him, with one end resting upon the ground,
reached higher than his head. IHis quiver
slung over his bare and brawny shouilderc on-
tained but a single arrow; pointed with lone.
He came with a lithe and dignified step. and
stopping at the proper spot, stood erect,befjore
Mignon a few yards distant. She heard his'
coming, and there was a quickened motion of
the snowy' globe which was tohe his mark.
He glanced inquiringly at Tallbear ; the latter
saw him not ; with folded arms, compressed
lips, and heaving chest, he was looking at
Mignon. The red archerremained motionless;
suddenly Tallbear turned toward him ;, his face
was flushed, there were beads of perspiration
on his forehead ; he made a hasty gesture to
the Indian who was waiting his orders ; he
took the arrow from the quiver, and fitted it to
the string. Mignon stirred not, trembled not,
though conscious of the movement.    The
archer paused with the shnaft leveled at the fig-
ure of the raven upon Mignon s breast ; he
waited another signal when he would bend the
jtufgh fibres of the sturdy wood, and launch
the arrow like lightning at the fairest mark
man ever aimed at. Taillbear was in the aet
of giving that signal, and the Indian was about
to let fly his fatal shaft when a bright object
gleamed momentarily in the air, and be fell
forward upon his face. Immediately, before a
warrior had moved, a grim and terrible figure
bounded into the circle ; his skull was bare to
the bone, his face black and streaked with
blood; a savage fury and determination marked
his motions. He caught Mignon in his arms,
and with such a look as the lion casts upon
those who kill her young, bore her from the
ring. No one spoke, not a 'hand grasped a
knife, gun, or tomahawk-all. tongues were
mute, every warrior paralyzed. Mignon was
lifted to the back of her favorite horse ; the
reins were given her-she grasped them-she
felt herself in rapid flight, and one who seemed
to her bewildered fancy like Balaam, was at
her side.

THE BUCKEYE RANG dR.

59


TIlE BUCKEYE RANGER.

CHAPTER     XI.
NEW ADVENTURES IN THE CANON.
Balaarn, it will be remembered, was stunned
by a hatchet, hurled effectively at his head by
a warrior ; losing his seat, he finally sank ex-
hausted beneath repeated wounds. He re-
mained insensible a long time. The first pre-
monition of returning life was a consciousness
of pain. He became sensible, at last, of some
kind of an existence, without the ability to
connect the past with the present, or to know
wltere the thread of outer life had been broken
His head glowing with a fiery heat, his eyes
drowned in an abyss of darkness, his stiffened
tongue, his throat hot a'nd dry, a dull, weary
motion of the heart, made him conscious of
misery only, without awakening individual
identity.
But Balsam's vital powers were strong, and
able to resist much suffering ; they prevailed,
at length, over wounds and bruises, restored
sight to his swimming vision, and activity to
his brain. He raised his head from the ground ;
the red beams of the sun, then at its meridian,
glowing into his face, extinguished, for an in-
stant, his newly-restored sight.
Presently he arose to his feet, he saw one of
Mignon's gloves lying.near him, and it quick-
ened at once the sluggish current of memory.
The thought of Mignon in danger absorbed
him wholly, to the utter exclusion of himself,
his wounds, and his wretched condition. He
quenched his burning. thirst at the nearest
stream, and then took the trail of the savages,
with the eagerness of a hound that scents' his
prey. His iron frame disdained its wounds,
and his resolute soul, with the undying faith-
fulness of the dog, scorned physical pain and
the gnawiags of hunger. Fortunately for him,
most of his hurts were not of a very dangerous
character, the blow upon his head, with the
loss of his scalp, being the most serious ; though
his arms and body were much hacked and scar-
red by knives and other weapons.
Defying all obstacles, Balaam tracked the
red robbers who had wrested away his precious
charge, determined to save her or share her
fate. Iniwhat manner he was to deliver her,
he did not know, or even ask himself-so en-
tirely were his still disordered faculties occu-
pied in the idea of pursuit. He reached the
Indian town at the moment when Mignon's
fate seemed decided. He was going to throw
himself upon the Indian with the bow, and
crnsh him with his giantstrength, when a gleam-
ing shaft passed him like lightning, and the
tawny archer fell, stricken through the brain
with a steel-headed arrow. We have related
what then occurred. The Indians, after the
rescue of Mignon, took up the dead body of
the warrior, and retired in silence to their vil-
lage. It was to them evident that the Great
Spirit was not pleased with' what they had
proposed.

'Mignon and Balaam had not proceeded far,
before they discovered a party of men advanc-
ing, that proved to be Captain Brion, Buckeye,
and a select number of hardy mountaineers.
This sudden meeting, together  with the singu-
lAr plight of the black, excited both inquiry
and surprise ; and' the latter gave place to
gratitude, when the startling experiences of
Mignon and the negro had been properly set
forth. No one, however, not excepting Ba-
laam, was more thankful than the partisan,
for the wonderful escape of Mignon. The re-
vulsion-of feeling was so great with her, when
she fully realized that she was snatched from
death, and was safe with friends, that she lost
her consciousness. 'Brion being the first to
observe that she was fainting,, caught her in
his arms, thus timely preventing a fall front
her horse. Balaam, too, now that the excite-
ment was over, felt the need of attention,- and
the poor fellow was immediately attended to-
his wounds dressed, his bravery praised, his
fidelity lauded. The purifying and cooling
effects of water, and the cornfortintr nature of
brandy, were speedily tested, in his case, with
the most happy effects. Hearty food was not
allowed him, but he was permitted to swallow
a portion of a biscuit with his argnardeuite,
when his vivacity being measurably restored,
he was able to utter several pleasantries at the
expense of his scalpless cranium. The neces-
sary sanatory operations having been attended
tr4 the mountaineers resumed their way toward
the canon, in which the band -had encamped
the previous day. The partisan placed him-
self near Mignon, occasionally asking questions
concerning her capture, referring to his own
anxiety, and detailing the efforts he had made
to find her. The account of her rescue was to
him intensely interesting. There was some-
thing perfectly incomprehensible in that trans-
action. The idea of the mysterious Redpath
was again evoked ; how could it be otherwise?
Had not the evidence of his presence been in-
dubitable ? Unquestionably, yes.. There had
been a death from an arrow in a manner that
he had himself witnessed.,
"Mademoiselle Bellmar," he said, "it would
appear that'you owe your escape to the inter-
position of that ever-present creature, Red-
path?"
"My mind has been in such a world of ex-
citement and confusion since ,my unexpected
escape, that I have-not yet reflected calmly ;
but that I am indebted to Redpath, seems an
inevitable:conclusion--a conviction that forces
itselfupon me spontaneously, without the trou-
ble of reasoning,'' she replied.
. "It would interest me to know what your
ideas may be concerning this, singular person'
age, who has a marvellous power of ubiquity,
certainly," Brion added.
Mignon paused to ralfy her thoughts.
" Hitherto," she answered, "my conceptions

co

y
C)

_1


I.

THE ,BUCKEYE RANGER.

of hir hive been quite'untinged with romance,  " Ah !" quoth Brio4, rather drily,;" you make
and practical to the last degree. I pictured a hero of Redpath."
him, brave Brion, a wily savage, gifted with a  "'But what can you expect, my friend, from
power of cunning remarkable, even for his race,. a giddy girl, who owes her life to this same
and actuated by the strongest feelings of vin- personage ?"
dictiveness.  Fired with undying enmity,    " Oh!" thought the partisan, "it should have
strengthened with unnatural hate, endowed been I who saved this charming woman!"
with dauntless courage, and aided by that fox-  "You have painted him with the colors of
like cunning, he has been able to cover his the novelist ; but I will not cavil, inasmuch as
movements with mystery, and make his name he deserves unmeasured commendation for
a word of terror."-.                      what he has done. Redpath, in this, has done
'Those were your former views ; now your me a good service, also," Brien answered.
present opinion, if you please ?"          "In what manner has he been of service to
" My thoughts, at this moment, are so un- you,'Captain Brion ?"
like what they] were, that I shall.doubtless ex- " Had you suffered the fate intended for you,
cite a smile upon your lips, Captain Brion. I should never cease to reproach myself," said
Redpath is more like the eagle than the the mountaineer.
raven !"                                    " And why ?"
Brion's eyes rested upon the fgure of the  "For the simple reason, that I did not care
raven upon Mignon's breast, at that moment, for you betterafter you put yourself under my
and he said, with a smile.:               protection ; it was in me, criminal neglect, for
"iBut you give the preference to the raven, which I most earnestly ask your pardon:"
it would seen ?"                            "I cannot absolve you from a sin which you
Mignon's cheeks assumed a deeper red.   never incurred. Please to remember that I
"Yes, I wear the raven, but I shall attempt positively refused your escort to the camp;
to impose on my imagination, and think it an therefore, if blame there be, it necessarily falls
eagle," she replied. "Redpath, as I said, is on me."
more like the eagle than the raven.. He has  "I see well where my error was, and even
eyes that are bold and piercing, that dare the your ingenuous kindness cannot make me for-
sun to dazzle them. He has a front like the get it. From this hour it shall be my special
god of war. His features are noble, his man- prerogative to attend to your safety ; it shallbe
ners lofty and proud. Redpath is tall and the first, the greatest, the last of my duties, so
stately as the cedars of Lebanon. With other long as you shall think proper to honor me
men, he is like Saul among the prophets. His with your presence and confidence."
tread is firm and fearless. He speaks but lit-  " 'thanks-thanks ! You will well discharge
tIe, and his words are commands. He reads the self-imposed duty ; but let me entreat you
the destiny of the red man ; he sees the corn- not to neglect more important matters for the
ing suprerpacy of the white, and the destiny sake of a truant maiden, whose erratic wander-
of the Indian. He knows that the way of his ings expose her to the charge of female quixot
people is over the mountains, and toward the ism '
sea--and toward oblivion.  The thought of   "Chastisement to him who has the presump-
the extinction of a great nation like his, through tion to make that or' any other charge of a re-
the injustice of the pale-faces, maddens him.; proachful character I" exclaimed Brion, with a
his noble soul swells with emotions inexpressi- menacing motion of the hand. "He who
ble, and he invokes the vengeance of the great couples your name with aught that is unbe-
an:I awful Master of Life."               coming, shall feel the anger of Ben Brion !"
While Mignon was thus describing Redpath,  "And that," said Buckeye, who now joined
she stopped near a swamp of mesquite, and the parties, " is no slight thing, accordin' to my
Brion dismounted to adjust her saddle-girth.  views of human natur."
"1Did you not hear a sound ?" he asked, turn-  "I trust my humble name will not give rise
ing toward the muesquite.                to aught unpleasant," said Mignon, with height-
Mignon was already looking in that direc- ened color.
tion. She replied, with some embarrassment :  "Your name, miss," quoth Buckeye, "shall
- "A slight disturbance among the leaves, he the watchword of the camp. By the beard
occasioned, I imagine, by yonder prairie-dog, of Joe Smith! them as hasn't no partio'lar re
which our voices frightened from his shelter." ligion 'mong us, shall pray to you !"
But Mignon, in this instance, was not quid  " I fear I shall prove a poor, dumb divinity,"
Ingenious; she had seen, while.Brion was emn- returned Mignon, laughing.
played with the girth, and at the instant ane  "I sh'n't put up may petitions to nobody
was finishing her description, the tall fo s of else !" rejoined Buckeye. " When I feel like
lhvenclaw. He stood in the mesquite in an worshippin', I want somethin' I can see."
attentive attitude, as if listening to th tones of  " You are a materialist," said Brion/.
her voice. He cast upon her a look of mingled  " I should be a good Christian, I reckon, if I
melancholy and pride, and she saw him no callers had somethin' lovely in the woman-like
more.,

61


62

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

'bout me ; it softens the rough side of my na-
tur-the nor'west mountainous side, which has
allers been uncultivated and neglected."
"Will you be good enough, Buckeye, to re-
peat me one of the prayers you intend to make
use of?" requested the mountaineer.
" Well, cap'n, it would be oncommon like
the one I heard you sayin' in your sleep, not
long ago."
"gYou are talking at random !" protested
Brion. palpably disconcerted.
" There's two things I never do-I mean talk
at random or shoot at random. But as to the
prayer, it should commence somewhat in this
fashion: '0 Mignon, a rude old sinner entreats
you never to leave him, that there may be
somethin' lovely and good allers near to apol-
ogize for the rest of human natur."'
"Not so bad," said Brion.
" Come, sir, desist !" interposed the divinity
of this prayer. Then to Buckeye: "I trust
that you mean me well,,and intend no disre-
spect."
4peIf I mean you any otherwise than well, may
I be scalped !" cried'Buckeye, bluntly.
I can vouch for his goodness of heart, Miss
Bellmar. He has given himself not a mo-
ment's rest since your disappearance, and look-
ed for the trail of your captors as earnestly as
if you had been his own child."
'There's a heap of malice in ye, cap'n! I
ain't old enough to he the girl's father, no
ways, and the innooendo isn't altogether friend-
ly," repliedathe trapper, gravely.
''Oh, I na sure you are not old," added
Mignon.
"Sartinly not. Here's Flash ; I'll leave it
to Flash ; and Flash has known me long 'n any
of ye. Come, Flash, what.do you say ?"
"It's well for you he can't speak," said the
partisan, good-humoredly. "A strange tale
he'd he telling !"
"Do you hear him, miss ? He's afeard I
shall become a favorite with you, as I shall, if
I live long enough."
" I have youin much favor, now," replied
Miss Bellmnar, playfully.
In pleasant conversation the parties beguiled
the tedium of thenreturning trail. By the mid.
dle of the afternoon, they were within a few
miles of the canon.
Life seemed more precious to Mignon than
at any previous period of her existence. The
sun, the skies, the earth,.presented new attrac-
tions and beauties hitherto unappreciated. She
marveled that she hadever beheld them with
feelings of indifference.
" Glorious world !" she mentally exclaimed,
"I shall not yet leave thee. I shall dwell
with and in thee, and experience for many
years, perchance, the munificence of provident
Nature."
Hearing woids of salutation from Buckeye,
,he looked up, and perceived that two persons,

on horseback,had joined thekparty.
14Ah !" said Brion, who kept his place at
her side, "here is an addition to our num-
bers."
er"And you will do well to be on your guard.
One of those approaching is the special instru-
ment of Mariot-aohalf breed, whose name is
Gardette, generally known, I believe, by his
Indian name of Beavertaker ; while the other
is no less a personage than Captain Callard,
the partisan of a band of trappers," said Mig-
non.
"I .know them, mademoiselle. That Provi-
dence which reaches to the wilderness, and be-
yond those mighty mountains even, has made
me acquainted with those now advauc. fig," re-
turned the mountaineer.
"tWhatever may be the nature and design of
their visit, I trust you will remember, captain,
that I am under your protection," Mignon
added,.with considerable agitation of manner.
11I certainly will not forget a circumstance
affording me so much pleasure."
" I need not admonish you to be firm."
" In your cause such admonition is unneces-
sary. But here they are."
"Captain Brion, I believe ?" said Callard,
addressing the mountaineer.
I am, thuns called," said the latter.
I think We 'et rnty years ago," resumed
the fo rarr ; ' hut this precarious life of ours
chant-es th'e human face, you know ?"
'The extremes of.heat aud cold, hunger and
thirst. and hardship, all set their mark upon
the features," Brion answered.
During the time this rejoinder occupied,
Callard was looking furtively at Mignon.
"But," added Brion, "though exposure and
suffering may roughen the features, I trust it
will never change the heart of an'honest trap-
per."
"No, assuredly; at least I hope not, in your
case," returned Callard.
rI believe I have a clear conscience. I have
tried to make. it my study to act the man of
honor. Now, will you be kind enough to in-
form me to whatlucky chance I owe the honor
of this visit?"
Disconcerted by the suddenness of this re-
quest, Callard exhibited much embarrassment.
"What I have to say, Captain Brion, is, pro-
bably, -more proper for your private ear," ho
rejoined.
" If there is aught in your message to m gke
a lady blush, I do not wish to hear it. The
young woman that you see near me may safely
be made the repository of the most important
secret that can be intrusted to human keep-
in g-."
" But if the subject to be.discussed concerns
this young lady herself, you perceive that it
may alter the case."
&amp;,Not at all! Speak what you have been
commissioned to at once, and'in her hearing

I

THE BUCKEYESRANGER.                                   63
If it concernsher, why, then, she is the party Miss Belmar-which rudeness I hope you will
sent    s" Thindh       right    be pre- attribute solely o zeal for your happiness.
-ent"a                             "sa   Thissudden aversion, believe me, will soon
"I will throw aside disguise at once,"o said give place to your former feelings. Do me the
Callard.  Tady is Mademoiselle Belmar, honor to accompany me ?"
of a youthful adventurer, and joined company more to say to this man. To you I commit
with me at Fort Leavenworth. The fact of the guardianship of my   erson."t
her sex having transpired, she clandestinely  "The captain has oo muchyp sense oun
left my encampment."                      lady, to meddle with an     ha - ens  og
"Had she not a right to do so "        concern him, but rather tends to d oestnoi
"Under ordinary circumstances she had an plans for the commencing campaign," Callard
undoubted right to govern her own move- answered, with increasing confidence.
nnts; but this, you will readily apprehend, was " Ah, we shall see," qioth Bnrion.
a peculiar case. It was my duty, as well as "Beavertaker, this way " said Cnllard, call-
my design, to send her back to her father'un- ing to the halfbreed, who was in' the rear  a
der a safe escort. It was an unwillingness to few paces. "akbeed th ladys orenb the rr-
return, that unquestionably induced her to die.    -       ehlady"s horsby the bri-
withdraw from my protection."                " 1Back,yuscndeI"ridBo."Cp
"You cannot imagine that Miss Bellmar has tai Calld, begoondrel" cried Brion.t l   Cap
not a will or purpose of her own ?"       down my indignton    Yourinolonger keep
' "Certainly ; she has too much will, and as all patience" oonce is8past
to her purpose, I will not wound her delicacy " You have heard my instructions, Captain
by" referring to it."                     Brion. She refuses to go-I must take her."
"    need you; I know it already." "You willtake my life first !" retorted Brion,
"sThat she entered on this wild enterprise to in a resolute tone.
be near her lover, may be admitted, without Beavertaker attempted to pass him to reamh
compromising her womanly instinees; but the side of Mignon, when the excited partisan,
there is no accounting for that caprice that in- rising in his stirrups,iunhorsed him in a moment
ducked her to fly from him, when, to all human of time.
appearance, it was quite unneedful."         "By the beard of the prophet Smith! If
" With delicate questions of this nature, it there's fighting' to be done, I o in for it"
ill becomes you and I to meddle. She will shouted Buckeye, galloping Flash t   ot
herself regulate her speech and conduct in re- " Let me strike this here feller, ca'ntothespot.
gard to such matters."                      Before Brion could grant or refuse the boon
"hAllow the chivalrous captain to proceed ; asked, the trapperpressed hard against Cilard -
wh hasdarnful aelln hslesson," said Mignon, and gave hi a most ungentle push with the
with disdainful calmness,                  muzzle of his rifle.  i               h
"I insist that there was nothing unntaidenly  "Forbear!" cried Brion. "Let there be no
in her conduct, when it is considered~that she quarrel with him."
has from her infancy been engaged to Monsieur The captain, meantime, drew a pistol, and
Al ariot, and her marriage was arranged to take, Buckeye grasped his wrist to take it from him,
place immediately after his return from his when it was accidentally discharged wounding
Yresent expedition."                     him (Buckeye). slightly in the arm. The ball
"You are not only ingenious but in genu- passed so near Mignon that it grazed her neck,
mounted indignantly to her cheeks. " What    "Captain Callard, a struggle with us will be
yistm te    ibse  fse Pierre Mariot useless, and can but result in injury toyourself.
is the most contemptible of lien I"        Go at once, and think no mnore of the projects
"He is your    ather's partner, mademoi- of Pierre Mariot," added Bron.   p
sele" ohr".Go yonder with me, sir, and I will settle
"To his regret and mine."'               this matter with you, with the bowie-knife. or
"I  il no cvil bt cmeto hepoit.My the rifle," returned Callard, thrusting; the
present purpose is to conduct the daughter of empty pistol into the holsters.
S  y employer back to my camp."               "Captain Brion, if you have any regard to
"he   ill act hepleasure," added Brion  my wishes, do not listen to such a brutal pro-
"I shall remain where I am. And I com- postal 1" said Mignon, earnestly.
mission you to assure Pierre Mariot of my un-  "I have no cause of quarrel with ou, and
neasned scorn," said Mignon.             therefore decline your offer !" said the arti-
"In caseof your refusal, I am charged to san.
act against your wishes-for your own good."  " That is a manly answer," asserted- Mignon,
me'hten to Pirratu re e rsonand take encouragingly.
atme to Pierre Mariot by brue strength "Ha      Pierre Mariot given me such a -ehal-
"I  mpes some degree of force, of course, lenge, I would not have refused him. satisfae-

I


THE BUCKEYE RANGER'.

tion ; but I have no wish-to slay a man with  Balaam approached. much rareshed, singing
whom, until this hour, I never exchanged a about a venerable relative "who had no wool
dozen words, and who, to my knowledge, never on the top of his head, in the place where the
Injured me."                              wool ought to grow."       .
" As you will," returned Callard, choking  "That's a game cretur," continued Buckeye.
down his anger. "I am only carrying out the "Nothin' seems to break him down, though
wishes of my employer, urged on by the hope one might nat'rally think that the loss of his
of restoring this fair lady to the arms of her night-cap is a solemeolly affair, calkillated to
father."                                  check a happy flow of sperits."
" She chooses to return under safer escort  " Go on in dat strain, Buffloeye," quoth Ba-
than Mariot's, and this affected zeal is not in laam. with an exhibition of ivory.
keeping with your conduct  As long as Miss  "You hear that firm', don't ye, -Billem?
Bellimar chooses to remain tnder my protec- Well, tIre Ingins have come back arter the rest
tion, no power on earth shall restrain her in- of your scalp,' said Buckeye, in a bantering
clinations."                              tone.
" One would be disposed to think that the  "Go 'long, Bullseye ! don't 'pose yer limited
days of knight-errantry are reviving ; but this edication!" retorted Balaam.
foolish obstinacy on your part may be produc-  "The firing continues, and grows more
tive of serious results. Since you will not lis- spirited," said the partisan.
ten to reason, I must leave you, and rest the . " How are we to reach the camp ?" inquired
termination of the matter with Mariot. I think, one o'f the trappers.-
captain, you will hear from this affair again, " That is yet to be determined, and an un-
and in a manner at variance with your interest dertaking which may be attended with danger.
and wishes.",                             If our friends are surrounded by Blackfeet, it
Callard rode away in bad humor, followed by certainly will not be easy to get to them. It is
the half-breed.                           possible, however, that the attack may be con-
"That man means to be dangerous," remark- fined to one side, in which case we can oin
ed Buckeye.                               our comrades without much difficulty. The
"0f he suffers himself to be led by Mariot, real state of affairs must be learned by one ex-
yes," Brion replied.                      perienced in woodcraft, while the rest remain
At that moment a tuan came to tell the par- at a prudent distance until the thing is settled.
tisan that Balsam was overcome with sleep, If practicable, we will go to the camp, if not,
fatigue, and exhaustion, and was in danger of we must be governed by circumstances."
falling from his horse. The mountaineer in- " That's advised like an old mountaineer,
stantly ordered a halt, and the black being dis- cap'n," said Buckeye. "A better arrangement
posed of in a comfortable position, slept heavi- couldn't be made, considerin' the circumstan-
y till dark."                             ces. There bem' a woman with us, that wo-
Brion had given orders to forward again, man must be pertected, cost what it may. If
when a firing was heard in the direction of the there was none but masculines 'mong us, why
canon. Mignon was the first. to mark the we might cut our way to camp through a host
sound, and looked inquiringly at the captain. of yeller Ingins; but, as I have said, it isn't
The latter was assisting 'her to the saddle ; so ; there's one here that must be defended to
when she was seated, he enjoined silence, and the last."
going to a small knoll, turned his practiced ear " We will proceed to the timber yonder,
in the direction of the ominous disturbance. which is near the canon, where I will leave you
There was a heavy volley, and then a dropping in charge of the men, for the protection of
fire, which continued. Brion came back in a Mademoiselle Bellmar, while I reconnoitre the
few minutes.                              condition of the camp. Judging by the contin-
" The Indians hive attacked our camp," he uous fire, there is a determined conflict going
said.                                     on, with the advantage-of numbers on the side
Buckeye and the whole party confirmed his of the enemy."  .
opinion.      ,                             The partisan, having given other, premoni-
" Yes," asserted the former, " the heathen tory instructions, set forward, on foot. for the
riptiles are at their old tricks agin. Many and scene of the fight, while his little band of
many a time have I heard that kind of firing, trappers, with Mignon, took shelter in the
when the oncivilized buffalo-eaters were astir. timber.
They'll never be content and mind their busi-  Brion approached the canon by the most ob-
ness as long's there's a hoss to steal, or a white scure way, covered by pinon and cottonwood.
trapper's camp to plunder. 1 allers go in for He pushed warily on; until he was enabled to
a serinmage when they make themselves too command a tolerably good view of the spot,;
free in that way. Flash ie great in a runnin' or more properly a position where, in brofl
fight, but not quite so handy in a reg'lar bush daylight, he could have  looked upon i
tussle, where the red niggers skulk from tree entire length ; but darkness now hung over the
to tree."                                 cliffs, relieved by the flashes of fire-arms only,

64-

as the Indians fired down from their hiding-
places at the trappers below, and the latter re-
plied by the sharp crack of their rifles. The
mountaineer perceived that the attaclhing par-
ty was large, for the sides of the canon were
occupied in every accessible place, a blaze
leaping from every projecting ledge and rock,
from ever ycleft and hole.
Entering the canon, Brion made such a dis-
position of the trappers as at length repelled,
the attack of the assailants, after a most obsti-
nate resistance. Having restored comparative
quiet. lie set out on his return to the timber,
where he had left-Mignon when he went to
reconnoitre the camp. He had passed the most-
perilous portion of the canon, when an Indian
suddenly rose from behind a rock, with uprais-
e l tomahawk. With sudden presence of mind
Brion parried the descending weapon, and
dashed his gun against the Indian's head, and
brought him to the ground. He felt for his
hatchet, but a feeling of mercy prompted him
to hesitate. He gazed in the grim face of the
warrior a moment,-and slowly taking his foot
from his breast, said gently:
"Arise! I could have taken your life, but I
will not. Depart in peace 1"
The Indian arose, walked a few paces, and
turning, said:
"Son of the Yan-kee, Blackbird will not for--
get this. Then moving silently along the canon
he said, "Son of the Yan-kee, adieu."
When Brion had nearly reached the timber,-
shouts and pistol-shots fell on his ear. Quicken-
ing his speed, he soon saw a confused mass of
human figures, fighting hand to hand, and Mig-
non surrounded by a circle of trappers defend-
ing her with desperate courage against formida-
ble numbers of Indians. With dauntless daring
he made his way among them, and forced the
enemy to yield wherever he appeared, and thej
finally left the field. The little party mounted
and 'galloped towards the canon, which they
entered soon after the moon had arisen.  But
the Indians gathering in the cliffs above the
canon, threatened by their numbers to over-
wheln them, Brion sought a place of greater
security where he might place Mignon,.while
the other trappers were engaged in repelling a
new attack, and the partisan found himself
alone with her.
Being thus thrown together, every moment
was freighted with interest.  The partisan
cared not to speak much ; he was better con-
tent to gaze silently at Mignon, whose features
in the soft moonli ghtreflected a spiritual beauty.
" Has not the firing ceased ?" she asked.
"In the canon, yes," said Brion; " but when
the moon is higher, it will be resumed again,
unquestionably."
"Be patient with me, my friend, but I believe
my physical powers are quite exhausted."
" Nor is it singular that such should be the
ease. You hive passed through extraordinary
trials."

" I think you will have to assist me from my
horse.  It appears to me that I am losing my
consciousness."
The partisan sprang from his saddle, and tak-
ing Mignon in his armus, placed her tenderly
upon a grassy knoll.
"My mouth is burning with thirst. DoI not
hear the runninof a stream ?' she said, lan-
guidly. The mountaineer tank .a drinking cup
from the leathern wallet or valise at his saddle
and hastened to look for the rivulet whose bah.
bling was audible. He came back with water,
and Mignon drank.
"Thanks, thanks! How kind is Nature to
supply our wants.  What so grateful as this
pure beverage to the parched lips ?" she re-
marked, returning the cup.
Brion made no answer, but held up his hand
warningly. The spot where the parties were
resting was a glade near the northern entrance
of the canon. On that side next the canon the
tress were sparse and of small growth : but
the prairie-grass was high, and the shrubbery
thick.
" Yonder," said Brion, "I see the grass in
motion, as if a large body of savages were eieep-
ing through it."
" Heaven keep us from their fury!1" exclaim-
ed Mignon.
" So let us, trust!1"
The mountaineer looked around, to see if
some of his party were not in sight, hut not one
of them was to be seen. He watched a moment
longer the peculiar motion of the grass that had
excited his suspicions.
It is true !" he exclaimed. "These red
hounds have scented us again ! But," he ad-
ded, turning to Mignon, " Miss Bellmar, I-will
sell life itself in your defence I"
"Generous defender ! I hope your hour is
not yet. Cast your eyes about you, and nee if
some avenue of escape is not open."
" I think we are surrounded; but one con
solation remains to me yet."
What is it ?" inquired Mignon, faintly.
" It is the privilege of dying with you?"
" Extends your devotion then so far?"
" To die for you is my duty."
"No, no ; I will not accept the sacrifice Fly
a once; escape while you may, and leave me
to y fate !" said Mignon, partially rising, ex
citement lending her strength.
The partisan smiled, but scorned to reply to
such a proposition. His calm face never looked
so handsome as then to Mignon.
" Ah! it is vain to urge such a consideration
upon you ! You are firm-you will not go ; I
read in your eyes, on your lips," added'Mig-
non, in a subdqed voice.
"You are right ; I would not leave you ifa
thousand warriors were each thirsting for my
blood, and each under a vow to give me a
wound."
" And why ?"

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

65


THE BUCKEYE RANGER

" Because it is. man's duty to protect wo-
man, at all places, under all conditions."
"Is there no other reason ?"
Brion's hitherto placid face was suddenly agi-
tated ; but he struggled manfully to regain his
composure.
"Do you wish me to be perfectly frank ?"
"Does the awful danger that encircles us
warrant aught but the most entire candor ?"
"Evidently, no; but I will say no more un-
til I have made yet another effort to save you."
The mountaineer raised Mignon from the
ground and placed herin the saddle. Mounting
his own horse, and entreating her to bear up
yet a little longer, he took her bridle, and mov-
ed toward an opening at the western margin of
the glade, which seemed to offer the only chance
of escape. He and his fair companion had gal-
loped but a few rods before he perceived that
the open space, led directly to the canon, and
the ground was too rough to be traversed by
horse.,
"We seem to be indeed lost," said Brion.
"But let us dismount; I can carry you in my
arms."
"Do not burden yourself with me, my friend
Without me you may-elude the savages."
"A burden you will not be. Come, let us
hasten along the canon. - Ah, but they are very
near ! Do you not hear those yells? It will
be a pleasure to defend you, and a pleasure to
die with you. Mignon, I love you !"
Then death will unite us forever!"
"Death to me will be welcome. Mignon, you
are dearer to me than life I"
"My friend, I am yours in life or death, as
God may order. We will not be separated."
The partisan took Mignon from her horse,
and pressing her to his heart, was bounding
away, w ben a dusky figure appeared in his path.
Supporting her with his left arm, he grasped
a weapon with his right.
"Son of the pale-face, forbear!" said a deep,
calm voice.
*"Resist me, and you die !" cried Brion, whose
pistol was aimed at the tall, motionless form.
"I seek not your life ; if I did, no earthly
power could save you," rejoined the Indian.
"Speak not so proudly ; we are but man to
man ; and I think at this moment that the ad-
vantage is with me."
fLook!" added the Indian, waving his hand,
and emitting a sibulant sound. Brion cast his

eyes around, and saw scores of red faces aris-
ing about him as if from the earth.
" Lost!" exclaimed t he, partisan ; but Mig
non, though conscious, was too much agitated
to speak; she had covered her eyes that she
might not see the dreaded visages of the sava-
ges.
" Son of the white man, you need not look
for those who left you not long ago ; they are
prisoners," said the Indian.
- " I ask nothing for myself ; prepare your tor-
tures ; but spare the maiden!" exclaimed the
mountaineer.
" You do well not to ask mercy of Ravenclaw;
you shall both share the same fate. The nature
of the red man is cruelI" returned Ravenclaw,
with lofty irony.
Mignon unclosed her eyes, and , fixed them
upon Ravenclaw.
"Lilyface, you are free," he said, with dig-
nity.
"And this brave man-is he not free also ?"
"He dies !" replied the Indian, coldly. -
" So will all men die, brave chief."  While
Mignon was speaking, she took the figure of
the raven from her bosom, and fastened it to
Brion's breast.
"That saves but one life," said Ravenclaw.
'-Let it be his, then. Son of the Eagle, I am
your captive."
Ravenclaw remained silent a moment, then
turning to the grim circles of braves, said, au.-
thoritatively :
" Warriors, release your prisoners, and return
to your lodges."
He did not speak again until every red face,
had vanished.
" Lilyface,you and your people shah live I
have saved them; yet the red man is cruel
his nature is stern like flint."  Then to Br o:
"Son of the Buffalo, go your way.   he
daughter of the timid doe has given you life,
and saved your tra pers from the knives of the
Blackfeet braves. 'hank the Great Spirit th at
he has not called you to-night to go on the long
trail tothe land of souls. ' Go and take the otter
and the beaver, and fulfill your allotted moon
on the earth."
With agesture of indescribable dignity. Ra-
venelaw walked rapidly from sight, while Brion
and Mignon gazed after him in breathless i-
lence, almost in awe.

0

CHAPTER XII.
MIGNON AN INTERESTED. PARTY.
Pierre Mariot was possessed of dogged per-
severance, when in pursuit of a coveted object.
Opposition sharpened his eagerness, and diffi-
culties quickened iis energies. If iis intent
was bad, it mattered not; the same obstinate
firmness marked his movements. His unex-
pected repulse by Mignon aroused this perverse
principle in his nature, acid subsequent events
put it into full action. The motives that in
duced her flight to Westport, were, to him, at
first, profound  mysteries - mysteries, too,
which he was feverishly anxious to penetrate.
Her escape from his camp, and from that severe
espionage which he intended to exercise over
her, disappointed, while, at the same time, it
provoked him.
That Mignon would put herself under Brion's
protection, he was quite sure; and immediately
upon the discovery of her flight, conferred
with Callard in regard to the best means of
again obtaining control of her person, while
Beavertaker was sent to watch the movements
of the rival band, with instructions to report-
vhat he saw as often as practical. He returned
at noon on the ensuipg day, with the startling
intelligence that Mignon had probably been
capturedby the Crows, and that Captain Brion
had started in purs it with a picked party of
trappers  He made the discovery by overhear-
ing a few words while concealed in'the bushes
.n ar the encampment of the mountaineer, but
the particulars were unknown to him. This
news perplexed Mariot not a little; but he
settled the matter, after some reflection, in this
monner: Brion was undeniably both bold and
experienced, and worrid rescue Mignon-if res-
cue were possible-without his aid or co-oper-
ation; hence he need only remain quiet and
await the issue. ' Upon this policy he acted.
Through the instrumentality of the half-breed,
he was informed, on the following day, of the
young lady's rescue, and that she was being
conducted to tjre canon by the brave partisan.
It was then that Callard was sent with the
message, which, as we have seen, was treated
as it deserved by Mignon and the Captain
Beavertaker was then instructed to instigate
the lBlackteet warriors (whose minds ie had
influenced  by  presents and inflammatory
sp;eeches), to attack the trappers encamped in
the canon, w hsich Ie did ; while Kincaid, in
the- se rnuse of an Indirin, led another party
asaiirsi Brion. for the purpose of withdrawing
Mr.uon  froi her protection, in accordance
wit tire Wishes of his employer, Mariot.

The failure of this scheme to obtain the per-
son of Mignon, was a vexatious disappoint-
ment, but from which he soon recovered to
concoct a new one, in which Headley was to
bear some part; influenced by bribes and pro-
mises.
"Remain encamped in this vicinity until I
have captured this truant damsel, and I will
give you' such an outfit as you need for the
long march before you," said Mariot to Head-
lay.
, The intended plan failed, and Mariot now
endeavored to work upon Headley, to league
with him in his purpose to secure the person
of Mignon. He gradually prepared him by an
artful detail of such a story as he pleased, and a
prolonged conversation followed, in which Ma-
riot developed so much of his plans to his ac-
complice as he deemed prudent. These plans
we will not now detail, as they will be known
by subsequent events. In the meantime, we
will return to Mignon.
Attended by the partisan and the trappers,
who had been taken and released by the Indi.
ans, by the orders-of Ravenclaw, she soon had
the satisfaction of reaching a place where she
could obtain that rest she so much needed.
But new and powerful emotions agitated her
heart ; she prayed, she wept, and then, over-
powered by fatigue, sank to 'sleep to pass
through again many of the scenes of the last
forty-eight hours. Wien she awoke, she saw
the sunbeams creeping in through the aper-
tures of the tent, and knew that her slumbers
must have been protracted. She felt no dis-
position to move, and recalled all that had re-
cently transpired, in the proper order of each
particular incident. She remembered, too, as
a last link in the chain of events, that some-
thing unusual had passed between herself and
Captain Brion ; the recollection heightened the
color of her cheeks, and quickened the pulsa.
tions of her heart. She asked if her conduct
had been such as became her sex and situation?
lf-she had deported herself with dignity, cour-
age, and delicacy ? She trusted that she could
answer yes with a tolerably clear conscience,
but feared that maturer thought might- bring
convictions less flattering.
r" Come," said Brion, "as you have not
breakfasted, you must test the skillfulness of an
old French voyageur's cookery-not so varied,
percharrce, as the fare to which you have been
accustomed, but which I trust you will not find
wlrolly unpalatable.
Mignon followed the partisan into the open

,THE BUCKEYE RANGED.

66

67


68                         THE BUCKEYE RANGER.
air. Beneath the cooling shade of an over- I  "By the beard of Smith, yes !" said Buck.
banging cliff, upon a small grass plot, was ar- I eve, in a suppressed voice.
rai ed the simple cookery to which Brion   "Before you say more, let me ask why are
hal referred, consisting of tender venison, pre- you hear?" resumed Brion, with considerable
pared in the best of trapper style, some hard sternness.
biscuits, and the luxury of eoffe-an unpre-  " To acknowledge frankly, captain, that 1.
tending meal which they cheerfully discussed. have been in fault, and to beg to be restored,
We have sometimes wished that lovers might partially, at least, to your confidence."
remain lovers to the end of their lives, and thus  "To have confidence in a man who has for.
secure the pleasures of a continual 'affection, feited his word, and forgotten his duties, as you
tinged with that novelty, freshness, and expec- have done, will prove exceedingly difficult, I
tation, that attend the first awakening of that suspect, to one who, like me, is strong in his
gentle sentiment.                         prejudices. Where are, those who went with
- By the beard of the Prophet Smith !" ex- you ?"
claimed Buckeye, approaching Brion.         "Some of them have joined another band of
" Well ?" said the partisan, inquiringly.  trappers, andIthe remainder are on their way
" Who do you suppose is looking for you ?" to Fort Laramie.",
Brion replied that he could not tell.    "And the gold-seeking expedition--"
"It is your old friend, Headley," quoth the  " Is abandoned."
trapper, with his accustomed shrug.         Brion mused a moment.
" AhI" said Brion. "What does he want?"  "Mr. Headley," he added, "if I had any
"Beavers and otters! I ain't in his confi- means of testing your sincerity, your apology
dence. What's more, I don't want to be. The should be accepted."
truth is, I haven't no faith in the cretur.  "Try me," said Headley, "and if you find
There's a kink in his dispersition that I can't one in your band more quick to obey'your or-
straighten out, no ways. Depend on it, cap'n, ders, then you shall be it liberty to doubt my
there's suthin' in the wind,!"            sincerity. My original agreement, I am aware,
" Possibly not; it's our duty to be charitable, is forfeited, and I do not ask to be fully rein.
you know. There's no man so-bad that he has stated, but merely to be tolerated among you
not some good in him."      ,       ,     more, I cannot reasonably expect."'
"When you find the good spots in Headley,  " My nature, sir, is a frank, unsuspecting one.
I wish you'd jes' clap your finger oa 'em, or You recollect the old adage, ' to err is human,'
uake a chalk mark acrost'em, so they can be etc ? I am disposed to overlook your fault,
diskivered by common eyes. Aceordin' to my and restore you once more to your place, and
notions of human makin' up, there were a few  I trust my confidence will not be abused."'
ingredients left out at the time-of his airthly  The parties were standing near Mignon's
composition ; one of them articles was honesty, tent, and at that juncture that young lady ap-
which, on the whole, is rather important in peered.
creatin' a human bein'."                    Headley, who saw Mignon advancing, exhib-
" Yes," certainly, honesty ought to be re- ited considerable surprise, fixing his eyes so
mnemhered, friend Buckeye."               intently upon her, that she could not but be
" But in this case it was totally disremem- aware of his close scrutiny. Her beauty daz-
'ered ; but here he comes, and you can make zled the unstable Missourian. He had expected
riore or less on him, jes' as the notion takes to see a masculine young woman, possessed of
y in "                                    no more charms than Don Quixote's Dulcinea ;
The partisan was already watching the a a, therefore, theloveliness.of Mignon was a reve-
proaci of Headley, wondering what the object lation so unexpected, that he could do nothing
of his visit might be.                    but stare at the fair apparation, as if bewilder-
The mutinous trapper drew near with a ed. He could now fathom Mariot's motives, so
downcast look                             far as this attractive divinity was concerned.
"Captain Brion," he said, penitently, "I've He desired to secure her person, not so much
no right to expect a friendly reception from  for humanity's sake, as for his own; for it
one whom, I fear, I have treated very unhand- seemed to Headley impossible that one who-
soniely."                              .  had once seen Mignon should not love her.
- Your conduct, Mr. Headley, has been well  Days passed on, revealing to Headley the
calculated to forfeit my good will, and your felicity of Brion, and the calm trust of Mignon.
presence in camp cannot be regarded by me He was maddened at'the.successes of one to-
as a very welcome event," returned Brion, ward whom he had never felt any friendship ,
cold lv.                                  and one, too, that'his conscience assured him
I expected such a reply ; my behavior has was much his superior in moral attributes and
ierited severe reproof. I came prepared to hear sterling qualities. He saw them walk together,
or 'rproaches patiently, and to confess that and the sight was hateful to him; he heard
1 . rve them," returned Headley, in the same them speaking in low and confidential tones,
hunude tones.                             and the sounds were torture to his ears.

'THE BUCKEYE lRANGER.

The partisan, absorbed in the presence of
Mignon, grew daily less observant of Headley,
till his movements wereentirely unwatched by
him. It was then that the Missourian began
to take walks by himself, which daily grew
longer and extended farther from the camp. As
he returned regularly, and deported himself
well, no suspicion was excited, so far as Brion
was concerned.
One circumstance annoyed the Missourian:
he was satisfied that Buckeye had followed him
on more than one occasion, which-was a species
of espionage threatening to prove fatal to his
plans. After many attempts, he succeeded in
eluding, he believed, the vigilance of the trap-
per. The hour was between sunset and dark.:
By a circuitous route he reached the arm of tim-
ber, near which the steel arrow had been so
singularly projected by an unseen bowman,
and into the tree upon which the figure of a
man had been carved with the point of a knife.
A person advanced from the timber and met
him, it was the half-breed. Together they
passed into the obscurity of the wood, and con-
ferred earnestly for a long time, when Headley
hurried back to the canon. At eleven o'clock,
when the partisan walked through the encamp.
ment, according to his habit, everything was
as usual, and he went to sleep with the con-
scionsness that all was safe.
When he visited Mignon's tent in the morn-
ing, she was riot there. While wondering at
the circumstance, Buckeye came to inform him
that several of the horses had been stolen dur-
ing the night, Mignon's among others.
"Where is Headley ?" asked Brion.
" He's not to be found," said Buckeye. " By
the beard of Smith !"
Brion lost no time in useless repinings over
what had happened. That he was perplexed
and anxious, will be believed, and needs no
afiirnation. With characteristic promptness
lie commenced a search for Mignon.    The
ground around the tent was thoroughly ex-
amined, but it was not of a nature to leave a
trail ; there was a rocky ridge extending a mile
or two from the canon, upon which the foot of
man or horse could make no impression.
Though sharp-sighted and experienced, the
partisan was unable to determine the course of
the missing maiden.   Under these circum-
stances, he mounted his horse to make a more
general investigation. Buckeye, like a faith-
ful friend, attended the captain, as much inter-
ested in the search, apparently, as lie.
"I always mistrusted the cretur," quoth the
trapper, alluding to.Headley, "and you remem-
ber, perhaps, that I advised you to have noth-
ing to do with him, notwithstandin' his peni-
tenee."  _
" Your suspicions were at first shared by
me; but his correct deportment afterward re-
stored my confidence," returned the moun-
taineer.

"I'm not blamin' ye forh hin' chariMtabb. u:
'twere, because charity is viat we all mi,-o,
more or less  I ought to recollect tp o  t
your mind was too much taken up  t t t
oncommon. woman."
The partisan's manly face was ufasife  ' a
moment, and he answered:
"-It is possible that I have been selfish iny
happiness; and upon reflection, I am ilind
to think it is so."
"No apologies, cap'n ; in sich a case it isn't
in. human natur to, be otherwise. - She's the
puttiest woman alive, and interestin' to'nmatch.
As old as I am-and I'm a little up'ards of forty
-I'm almost fool enough to love her myself
" What pleasure it gives me to hear y'u
speak so kindly of her!" said Brion, warmly.
" Who could speak otherwise? There's no-
body with a heart that knows her that can say
anythin' that isn't to her praise. You'll be ia
happy man with her; if not, 'twill be your
own fault."
" You forget that she may be lost to me f r-
ever ?"
" That's a supposable case, but I can't make
up my mind to it, yet. She'll turn up somte-
where, dead or alive, when you ain't expectin'
her. I shall travel a great many miles afore I
give her up, nor despair in one day or -wo. or
in a week or a month. Flash can carry me
like a bird, and won't mind a thousand miles
of travel sca'eely at all, 'specially when be
knows who he's arter ; in fact, the quadrupid
needs exercise rather, to lubricate his j'itits,
like."
"Buckeye!" exclaimed the partisan, "your
friendship gives me courage, and iakes rme
think better of my fellow-men."
" Beard of' Smith ! it's like your charitable
natur to say that. But that's not to the p'it,
exactly. I wonder where Callard and his baud
may be about this time?"
"On the march, and far ahead of us, doubt-
less. Ah ! if it was not for this unfortunate
affair, we might hope to overtake them. Clear
ly, they will reach the trapping-grounds first."
" It can't be helped ; you've labored under
peculiar diflikilties, and tisn't in the power of
man to control sarcumstances so they'll work
jest to one's mind. The best of us are short-
sighted mortals, and can't see much beyond
our noses. Providence deals with us precisely
as it's mind to, knowin' the end from the be-
ginnin'. Worryin' never did nobody no good,
and never will as long, as the irth sarcum-
navergates the air. We must submit to what
comes with becomin'submission,-knowin' its
from above, or somewheres in that d'rection"
"I have endeavored to do my best for ny,
employers."
" I'll make oath to it in a court of justice,
with my hand on the Bible I It's true that you
stopped a few days, but humaniity required
that you should.} Redpath, himself, couldn't

/


TUE BUCKEYE RANGER.
be so much of a savage as to go on and leave side. It was now too dark to follow the trail
an honest fellow-man in sickness and distress, with certainty, and they encampeil fir reat an,
no matter what his complexion might happen  refreshment. But the partisan could not trait.
to be. No, no ! such barbarity couldn't be quilize his mind to repoe, and finding titie effort
found. The wounded and sick must be taken to sleep irksome, he softly arose the moo'tiim lit
care of, fur or no fur; whether companies get judged Buckeye to be asleep, and pissed out 1f!
rich or not. Them's my notions, and I'm sthe tent, and started anew in seareb of the trail
forty and up'ards."                        He went on until le came to a hill. whiieni lie
"My own,-too."                     -     climbed, and passed'over to the other side At
"It's equally your duty to look' after this its base was an impassable chaparral, and he
Mignon, let what will come of it."         turned aside to the south. He soin e nie to
"That is my fixed determination; but tell a dell surrounded by red cedar and pines,
me, my friend, where shall we look." -      where he found the remains of a firestill snk.
"In sev'ral directions; Headley must be ing
found, if it takes a month; and perhaps you'll  While Brion stood reflecting whether to con.
have to push on after Callard--there's no know- tinue his solitary reconnoissance or return to
in'. And as for Pierre Mariot, he deserves Buckeye, lie was startled by a loud and triumn-
lyndhin' 1"                                 phant laugh near, him. Raising hits eyes and
" He's a villain!"                   '   partially turning round, Brion beheld a spec-
"As wicked a scamp as ever walked the tale which sent the blood thrilltng ltr ugli
prairies, Headley excepted."               his veins with unwonted rapidity , he was sit'.
"1, have had a thought which perhaps I ought rounded by stalwart warriors, whose dusky
not to speak, but which, nevertheless, has given features looked grin and terrible in the dark-
me some uneasiness."                       ness. In advance of the rest. and scarcely
"Speak it, cap'n, 'less it's somethin' compro- three yards from the mountaineer, stood one
misin' the integrity of that oncommon female ; whose'dress and bearing indicated him to be a
in which case you'd better be silent."     chief.
"I recollect thatHeadley tried to make him-  " And so the-cunning Fox has come to the
self very agreeable to Miss Bellmar."      hunter ?" said he,.repeating the laugh that had
" Beard of Smith ! I'm 'shamed of you, cap'n. so electrified the partisan. "Has the Fox be
I can see what you're drivin' at, and advise you come a fool, that he thrusts his piv into the
to drop the subject where 'tis. I've never seen  trap ?"
the gal that knew her own mind better, though "The most cunning are not o I ways upon
I'm forty and upwards."                    their guard, and an old squaw mmav sometimes
" I thank you, Buckeye ; I certainly do surprise the panther sleeping on a tree," said
wrong to doubt her."    .Brion.
"Depend on't, wherever she's gone, it's again  "I trapped you once before, but the heart of
her will. She isn't one of the flighty kind, taken  Ravenclaw was soft. The eves of Lillyfice
with every decentish face, and deceived by  turned his blood to water. Wily tripper, you
every artful tongue."                       will not live to see the next new moon  Last
"That is but justice to her good sense. I year, Prairiewolf scented you upon Snake
shall ask her pardon for entertaining a thought River, when you were catching the eaver, but
even, not to her credit."                   he could not catch you ;' now he has got his
" I'll see that you don't forget it. cap'n. She's hand on you, and you cannot escape  What
equal to any of the saints in the calendar, and have you to say ?"
you deserve to do penance, as 'twere."       " That I will give you much for liberty," re-
" We must search for the villain, Headley ; sponded Brion,
and I shall give myself no rest until I have  "Do you give liberty to the otter when you
found his lurking-place ; I will cross prairies, have taken it? Do you spare the buffalo when
I will climb mountains, I will cross valleys and you are hungering for his flesh'? Do you say
rivers, and dare every peril of a savage country to the panther, go in peace, when you have
in this pursuit. My friend, I have an extraor- levelled your rifle at her heart? Fox you have
dinary incentive to exertion;. you see that lost your cunning !"
Mignon charms all; her beauty touches the    " I have guns and ammunition, hatchets and
heart of the red man, even ; while her good- hunting-knives, beads, bells, and mirror., and
ness, kindness and gentleness win the friendship strong horses," replied the trapper.
of the rough mountaineer. Yesterday, I was   '-It is not so ; you have nothing ; not even
happy, for Mignon was near me ; but to-day I life. Listen, we have a vow to kill ;the first
am miserable, for I no longer see her face, nor living thing that cane among us. White man,
hear her voice."                           such vows are never broken."
They rode on in silence, examining closely all  "I have heard of such a custom prevailing
the route for miles. Just at sunset, Brion struck among your people; i-ut it is a cruel and use-
a fresh trail leading to the water, and both he less one. If I must be sacrificed,.it will make
and Buckeye swatn their horses to the other but little difference wi otherr I die to-night or

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

71

because be has never been tatight to despise its
tortures. If nothing but my death will suffice,
strike your knife iito my breast and let me pass
at once to the hunting-grounds."
" A squaw might die ifl that way; a great
chief like you deserves a more honorable.
death."
A brave approached to bind Brion's hands.
Resolved to secure a sudden death or escape,
with his hatchet he struck the savage down at
Prairiewolf s feet, and bounded from the dell
with the speed of a deer. But there were those
after him swift of foot and tireless in pursuit ;
and having scarcely three yards the start of his
pursuers, the mountamneer could hardly hope
for success. He was overtaken, carried back,
and bound in a manner to preclude the possi-
bility of a second attempt.
" You are not quick enough,!" said Prairie..
wolf, tauntingly. "A boy could run faster."
''But a boy could not do that!" retorted
Brion, pointing to the body of the brave whom
he had stricken.
"We shall see," resumed Prairiewolf, fierce-
ly, " how you will bear up under the ordeal of
the twelve fires !"
" The will of God be done !" replied Brion,
commending himself to that Being who is apt
to be forgotten in prosperity, and remembered
only in adversity.

three days hence ; therefore give me three
ua ys biiterte, and at the expiration of that
titii Iivlw return, when you can fulfill your
VUU .
-- Wa wae! I was right when I said the Fox
W AS growing foolish ; he- is getting into his
ootag.
v iwealr by the Great Spirit, that I will re-
turn and surrender myself a prisoner, to suffer
ie death you have determined upon!" added
hiutioU, witu eiphiasis.
,Paleface, that cannot be ! Even if you
came baca, Ravenclaw might again give youj
Inc  but I w ill not trust you; your heart is not
Jinenugh to keep your word. If you come,
it Wouldit.vith your hunters at your heels,
with their ritles cocked and at their faces. -Prai-
rie wohf is not a child, that he should be de-
ecived by words, w hieh are as smoke curling
from the tip of a wigwam, to pass away into
the mr and be rememei ed no more."    0
T bepairutsa  felt a cold, sickly sensation
cn-ering over him, his blood seemed to flow
bick a poun his h art with horror ; he experi-
enced an nstinetle shrinking hat reached to
his very marrow. Prairiewolfe eyed hint, a
rocking smile on his lips
",Vrairiewolt, when the Master of Life calls
for us, we .must go ; but te white mian has
different notions from the savage. His flesh is
more sensitive to the tire than the red man's,

I

4

' ti y
\       I


THE BUCK
, ---
CHAPTER XIII.
BRION'S EsCAPE.
" is the moon up, cap'n ?" said Buckeye,
rubbing his eyes. There not being any re-
sponse, he added, presently, "I'spect it's about
time to be stirring. "
The silence remained unbroken, Buckeye
arose and turned to the spot where he supposed
Brion to be slumbering.
" Beard of the prophet Smith ! He isn t
here ! Well, lie can't be fur off, that's sartin.
Perhaps he's gone after the horses. No lie
hasn't. neither; for there they stand in plain
sight."
"By the book of Mormon !" exclaimed Buck-
eye, suddenly. "Somebody's arter the cap'n's
hoss!"
his observant eye had detected a man crouch-
ed in the grass in the act of cutting the side-
line from the trapper's steed.
"Look this way !" shouted Buckeye.
The thief otbeyed, not certain that the words
were addressed to him ; but all doubts were
dispelled when lie saw the trapper's long rifie
covering his head.
"If your life's worth anythin' in partie'lar to
ye, get up and come this way, and try to re-
nemsber that, if you run, I'll drop you as I
would a 'tarnal eatamount!"
The detected offender reluctantly advanced,
revealing no less a personage than the half-
breed.
"Oh l it's you, is it ? Well, this is nice kind
of business for a cretur with white blood in his
veins. I s'pect there's no other branch of in-
dustry that you can git into," said Buckeye, as
Beavertaker approached.
"With the people with whom I live, horse-
stealing is not esteemed a crime, but rather a
virtue," returned Beavertaker.
" Well, jest clap down on your knees and
say over a little sunthin', and I'll give ye a bit
of a lift toward the half breed kentry. I
s'pect you haven't got Ingin blood enough in=
ye to care any great about a death-song, and
as for your explites, it won't take long to tell
'em'."
At that instant, something fell softly at Bra-
vertaker's feet, who, thereupon, evinced much
agitation.
+ Beavers and otters ! it's an arrow !" ex-
claimed Buckeye.
But the half-breed was -too much terrified
to speak.
"You look 'rmazin' white about the mouth,
and I reckon there's a heap of meanin' in this
title messenger. Come, half-breed, find your
tongue."
-Yes, there is indeed meaning in it," an-
swered Beavertaker, striving - to master his
fears. " It tells me that my life hangs on a
thread---it warns me to begone, and appear no
more in the country of the Blackfeet, on pain of'
death."

EYE RANGER-
"'Tis the work of Redpath '" said the trap*
per, in a subdued voice. " The unknown ere-
tur is near; his noiseless feet are walking'
around us ; his eagle eyes are seem' us, and his
quiver is full of these polished instruments o'
death."
" There is too much truth in what you say.
I shall tarry no longer amid these hills ; -I must
direct my footsteps to some distant spot where
the name of Red path is unknown."
" If that's the case, then free your conscience
at once, and you'll go lighter for havin' cast
off a great burden of deviltry," advised Buck-
eye.
" There is one thing I regret," added the half-
breed, with some show of remorse.
",That's right; I'm glad to hear ye say so;
it makes half breed human natur appear to bet-
ter advantage. Tell me what it is that you're
sorry for?7"
" I will ; it is that I sold myself to Pierre
Mariot."       "
" And well you may, for he is a villain. As
it can't now make any difference to you, either
in regard to your pay or future prospects, in-
form me what Mariot has been tryin' to do ?"
" At fir-st his object was to destroy the trap-
pers of the American Fur Company."
"That I have sound out already," said the
trapper."
" When Mignon appeared," resumed Bea-
vertaker, "and went over to Brion's party, it
then became his great object to obtain posses-
sion of her person, and, by a series of persecu-'
tions, overcome her objections to his wishes.'
S" And what might his wishes be ?"
" T make her Madame Mariot, of course."
"I have yet another question to ask."
" Ask it."
" Can you tell me where Mademoiselle Bell.
mar is now?"
"She is traveling toward the Plains as fast
ar fleet horses can carry her. She is with Ma-
riot, and Headley was his instrument. But the
end is not yet; Headley loves her, and there
will he a struggle between the two ",     .
" Beard of Smith! Jest what I thought ! Put
two scoundrels together to serve the devil, and_
directly they'll go to cuttin' each other's
throat. What trail is that the cap'n and I
have been followin' Y"
" That of a small party of Blackfeet, who
have sworn never to return to their village
without a prisoner." .    -
" Al, that gives me an idea! Depend on't,
the cap'n's in trouble. It's probable that the
thought of Mignon kept him awake, and he got
up and followed this trail, und has been taken
by this war party. By Joe Smith's beard ! I
must be after him."
"Madman, stop ! you will but go to share
his fate!"
"Share his fate ? I'm willin' to-I'm willin'
to, if I can't save him. What is tire to a true

r

THE BUCKET
soul? It's nothin' ! All tha fire in the world
can't burn up the immortal principle of an hon-
est man !" said, Buckeye, with fervor.
"Follow your destiny, and 1 will mine.
Time is passing, and to me it is the same as
life. But I turn my hack upon these familiar
scenes with sorrow ; I love the prairies and
the wide skies over them ; the mountains have
become dear to me, and I love to hunt the buf-
falo upon the great hunting-grounds of the red
man. I go, and we shall never meet again.
Honest trapper, farewell !" Beavertaker said
no more, but turning away, was soon out of
sight. '
"- The kentry's relieved," said the trapper ;
"it'll breathe - easier, feel better, and stan'
longer, I dare say. It can't be said that Red.
path hasn't done some good, pervidin' he's had
a hand in the matter ; for one, I'm obleged to
him, be he man or demon. But I mustn't for-
git for an instant that the cap'n's in danger.
i'll hop on to Flash, and it shall go hard with
me if I don't find him. Flash can scent an
Ingin as far as a dog can his master."
Buckeye hastily saddled his horse, and leav-
ing Brion's animal to shift for himself, was
soon in motion.   With his nose near the
ground, Flash followed the trail of the moun-
taineer.
W hen Flash had gone on in this manner for
a half or three quarters of an hour, he stopped,
snuffed the air, and shook his head.
1 IIe smells the creturs !" said Buckeye ;
"they're near-I never knew him to fail."
He dismounted, and stood a moment beside his
horse.
" Flashi," said lie, gently, stroking the crea-
ture's neck with his hand, " we've been friends
a great while, and it wouldn't be like ye to de-
set me now. Stay here. and be as still as
death, If I don't see ye again, but go under,
the same as a good many better men have,
cont never let an Ingin riptile swing his ltg
across tour back."
Sto'ptig until his figure presented but half
its usual attitude, the trapper glided onward
anid soon reached the dell, where active pre-
parations were being made for the death of the
prisoner.
The savages had already fixed twelve green
stakes in the ground. and were gathering heaps
of fagots. To Bu-keye, this was a mournful
spectacle ; lie gazd from his place of conceal-
ment with mingled feelings of horror and in-
dignation. He felt himself in a dreadful di.
lemrma; he could witness the agonies of his
friend with but little chance of aiding him, or
he could fly for assistance back to the canon,
with the terrible fear following him at every
step that he might be too late to save his life.
Thus lie remained. Knowing that it would be
rash to undertake anything in favor of Brion
against such iiurribers, he concluded to go for
assistance, hoping, by dint of hard riding, to.

.YE RANGER.                            73
return in season to save the captain's life.
Creeping back, he. mounted Flash, and rode
away as fast as his fleet limbs could carry him.
Meantime, the partisan was lying upon the
ground in the most painful position. He saw
the green stakes driven, the fagots brought,
dry pine splinters prepared, and various oth--r
arrangements calculated to shake the sternest
resolution. He had abandoned himself to his
fate with a kind of despairing apathy, when a
sudden recollection, like a gleam of light,
flashed through his mind.
"Prairiewolf," said he,."is it not the will of
the Great Spirit that I should die now ?"
" White men talk often of the Great Spirit,"
replied the chief, ironically. "Why do you
think he has not called you, and that you shall
live longer upon the earth?"
" Unbutton my hunting-frock, and you will
find that beneath it which will answer your
question."
Rending over Brion, he tore open his frock,
and there was revealed to his wondering sight
the figure of a raven wrought in beads.
Prairiewolf stood silent and  confounded ;
rage and disappointment were pictured upon
his visage.
" Accursed Fox!'' he exclaimed. "Some of
your cunning yet remains. This is indeed a
mighty medicine. I will show it to my war-
riors, and hear what they say."
Prairiewolf took the talisman, and, going
away a little distance, called his braves around
him, when considerable talking followed in low
tones. Presently the chief returned, and giv-
ing the mountaineer the memento that seemed
to possess such power, said :
"You were right, pale-face ; your time has
not come; you may yet live many moons to)
trap, the otter and the beaver. See ! 1 cut
your bands-; rise up; you are free!"
The mountaineer sprang lightly to his feet.
and the fear of a painful death rolled hack from
his soul. He stretched out his aris-he shook
himself like an impatient steed-a sense of
freedom made him happy.
"'Tis the providence of God !" lie exclaimed.
"Yes," said Prairiewolf, "it is a great thing
that has happened. There is your way-go ;
at, remember that you shall yet feel the claws
0. Prairiewolf!"
"To thank you for my life, would be giving
u too much credit for humanity ; I shall
therefore reserve my gratitude for one more
powerful than thou. Adieu,. unfriendly red
knan !"
A brave advanced and handed Brion his rifle ;
throwing the weapon upon his shoulder, he
walked from the camp of his enemies with a
firm and dignified step.
Brion took the way he had come, and as he
increased the distance between himself and the
savages, quickened his pace.
" Wabuma !" said a voices near the mon-


.1I

THlE BITCKKEYE RANGER.

1~4

taineer, at the moment when he was paang
the chaparral adverted to in another place.
The partisan cocked his rifle, and looked for the
speaker, who immediately emerged, from the
miezqit at his left.
" What is your purpose ?" questioned Brion,
presenting his rifle.
" To pay a debt I owe you !"
"1 know von not," added the captain.
"Yan-kee, I am Blackbird, son of the Ra-
ven," rejoined the Indian.
The partisan eased the hammer of his rifle-
lock softly back upon the u broken cap, and
dropped the breach of the weapon to the
ground.
"Ah i! I remember."
"'Wabu ma, attend thou! When yonder war-
party set out I was not ready, for I had certain
rites to perform necessary to insure success ; I
overtook them  this morning, after you had
given Prairiewolf the great medicine."
"Go on," said Brion.
"Prairie wolf cut your bonds, and said :
' Arie -; you are at liberty': arise and depart.' "
"Yes," added Brion, wondering at what
Blackbird was coming to.
" But," resumed the Indian, "lie spoke de-
ceitfully, and there was wickedness in his
heart. Yau-kee, he has planned your death
When you pass yonder spring, two braves will
spring upon you and dispatch you with their
tomahawks. Prairiewolf has sent them there
for that purpose; they pre crouching in the
grass, waiting the sound of your coming."
" Blackbird, behold how the Great Spirit
rewards mime for a merciful act!"
" Wa-wa ! the Master of Life is just; he
never forgets, and his red children are like
h11m1"
" Do you not fear the consequence of be-
traying this secret ?" Brion asked.
" l would have warned you of this if the
twelve fires that were to be lighted for you were
to be emy only reward for the deed. 1 will re-
pey the debt I owe you. though they thrust
tmy flesh full of blazing splinters, and burn out
my tongue."
"My brother," said Brion, with increased
earnestness, "I regret that my people do not
better understand your race. I would to God
that mutual hatred might no longer exist ;
that jealousy and bloodshed might cease for-
ever '
" Yan-kee, I have given life for life; go your
way, and remember that Blackbird did not
pro"ve ungrateful."
'T eaIndian vanished like a spirit-so quick-
ly 'lid lie glide into the tangled depths of the
ca:parril-anid the partisan, changing his
course, mnale a detour'to the right, thus avoid-
mnt~ the ambush of the wily Prairiewolf. He
rescued the spot where he had left Buckeye,
fnmis horse quietly feeding, but, of course,
saw nothing of toe trapper or Flash.

It was now daylight. Thinking it probable
that Buckeye was loooking for him, Briou con-
cluded to remain in that vicinity for a while,
believing that he should be more likely to find
him in that way than. by searching for him.
He did not, by any means, intend to slumber,
but having slept none during the night, Na-
ture proved stronger than his resolution, and
he fell into an unquiet slumber, in which he
dreamed of the Blackfeet and Mignon   IIe
was aroused from his somnolency by sounds
that would not have been noticed by one who
had not passed many years in a country where
constant watchfulness was required, but whose
proved to be produced by human feet; for the
first object that met the mountaineer's gaze
was a nan who was looking wistfully at his
horse.
"Stranger," said Brion, " what brings you
here ?"
The individual, who obviously had not seen
the partisan, now turned toward him,: with a
start indicative of surprise.
" Ah," added Brion, immediately, "I think
we have met before ?"
" Yes, and not much to my advantage," re-
plied the man, pointing to a wound upon his
head.
"You received that little memento of my
good-will at the timber near the canon," con-
tinued the partisan.    .
"I am pretty well aware of it," said Kin-
caid.
" This meeting, I perceive, is opportune ; I
have some questions to propose to you, which
I hope you will answer without prevarication.
My first question is: Can you inform me where
Pierre Mariot is ?"
" I shall not answer," said Kincaid.
" My next." resumed Brion, " is this : Is Mies
Bellmar with him?"
" I reply to that as to the other question."
"Villain!" exclaimed Brion.
" If that suits you, why let it be so," replied
the Frenchman, with a sneer.
" You were, doubtless, about to appropriate
my horse."
" I supposed it to be an estray."
"No apologies ; horse-stealing, I presume,
could easily be reconciled to your conscience ;
you are not tender, I think. But as the civil
questions'I have asked remain unanswered, I
will propose another: Tell me if you have
any knowledge of the movements of Head-
ley?"
"I have."
" That is well; where is he ?"
"That is something I did not agree to tell
you."
" A truce to this obstinacy! I am inteusely
interested in Miss Bellmar, and the movements
of Headlet and Mariot'; tell me where to find
them, and~I will make it worth your trouble."
" Oh, you will buy me?"

I'.
r
r-
1


I

THlE fTJClKEYE RANGER.

If it does not go beyond my means, yes.
Name your price ?'
"6Y'u spoke of buying my knowledge ; what
will you give?'
What do 3 on demand ?"
There is your horse ; it is a fine one ; I
will accept him as a gift, and in return for
your kindness, tell you all I know of Made-
*nloiselle Behmar and Mariot," said Kincaid,
with a cool effrontery provoking to Brion, who
was loth to part with an animal he valued
highly.
""It is a hard bargain you are driving with
me, but I will compromise -matters by giving
you the price of the animal in money, or such
goods as I have at the encampment," he an-
a wered. ..-
"No, that will not do; I'1 have the horse,
or.it's no trade, and not a word passes my lips;
so choose, and that quickly, for I wapt 4o be
off," he said.
'*You are indeed a pitiful knave, and it
taxes my patience sorely to keep from laying
violent.hands upon you; nevertheless, if these
are your easiest terms, I accept."
"Saddle him and bring him here, and place
the bridle rein in my hand, that I may be sure
there is no trickery about it."         '
With a sigh of regret, and something like re-
morse,' the partisan complied with this request.
Kineaid took the bridle and threw it over 'the
animal's neck. The horse, resenting this fa-
miliarity from a stranger, or frightened at the
suddenness of the act, reared and backed, Kin-
caid retiring with him until be- was several
yards from the mountaineer, then springing
with agility to the saddle, gave him the rein,
and struck his rnks with his heels. In a se-
cond, he was galloping away.,
BM-ion drew up his rifle with the intention of
wounding the rascal, but it missed fire. Kin-
caid had taken off the cap while he was sad-.
dling the horse.
'Put on a cap I" shouted the Frenehman,
looking back over his shoulder:
At that instant, the partisan saw a gleam of
ligtt passing through the air; Kincaid cried
out like one in mortal pain, and' fell headlong
from the horse.
Brion hastened to him; he found him upon
she ground in the agonies of death.. A steel.!
headed arrow had passed through his lungs, and
the glittering point was visible near the spinal
columns beneath the shoulder.
He fixed his glassy eyes upon the moun-
taineer.
"It is ended !" said he, in a husky voice.
"'m dying. My fears were prophetic-Red-
path has stricken me. I wished for your horse
to leave this accursed region-but it is useless
t d.u tule with fate. But I will confess this.
M    e lIlmr is with Mariot and Headley ;
you will fid them somewhere on the trail to
theoit.y of the Great Salt Lake. Raise me up
a ilS e."

75

Brion did so, supporting him with his will-
ing arms.        -
" When the breath has left mernhonest Brion,
tie a heavy stone to my holy, and sink it in the
waters of the Nebraska
Yes," said Brion, ' I will dto it."
"That is all-; it gre vs darker--the portals
are grim and horrible-hu! --biut death is eer-
nal-eternal sleep "
Kmncaid never spoke agin.
CH APTEIR XIV.
A Nxw-COMER IN TH   PfFELD.
"If death is an et.-rel slumber," mused
Brion, " then he who has lived the best in the
world will sleep the met tranquilly. Ttois clod
was but recently a man,' now it is insensate
matter, ready to return to the great body of
nature, whence it was derived."
"Beard of the immortal Joe !" Cried a well-
known voice, and thereuipon the partisan felt
I himself hugged as if in the embraces of a
bear. " Beavers and otters! guns and gun-
powder I"
The reader will perceive that Buckeye had
returned.
" Well, cap'n, this is what I call sing'lar I
Why, I didn't much expect to see you ag'im
in the earthly tabnerele of your nat'ral body I"
"A spirit has not flesh and hones as ye see me
have," said Brion, sharing fully in Buckeye's
gladness.
" In course not, forlin that ease one couldn't
never aspectt to reach the new Jeroosalem unless
he went up in a billoon ; for the force of gravity,
you know, would keep him rooted to the natural
sile. How, in the name of Smith, did you git
clear of the Ingin ereturs?1"
"First, let me ask, my friend, how you leara-
ed that I was a prisoners?"
"Why, I discovered ye, in course. and saw
the riptiles drivin' green stakes into the ground
to the number of twelve and up'ards."
"You took the trail?"
"Flash and I, yes. I must say that I found
ye in a bad predicament. Twelve fires I three
days! great Smith I"
"I perceive you are acquainted with the
whole affair."
"That mixed individoval the Ingins call Be-
-vertaker has been here, and he told me about
the war-party and their vow ; and you bein'
gone, I put that and that together, and made
up my mind what had happened, which was
confirmed bygoin' arter ye. But, by the beard?
what have you here ?"
"You can examine and satisfy yourself."
" The body of a man with an arrow driven
through his lungs, the p'int stickia' from the
back."
" True," said Brion.
" Beavers and otters! let us hear about it."
The partisan stated the circumstances of the
ease.


THE BUCKIYE RANGER.

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

"'Tis the work of Redpath !" addeQ Buck- into his rescue, which, hap pily, he effected
ev.- in an under. tone. " He is yet at his old The man was taken from the water much ex.
t   e -e; he's near us by night and by day ; he's hausted. He proved to be a Frenchman.
never asleep ; his foot never tires, ind. his  "Mon. Dieu!" exclaimed he, reviving from
qiver is never empty."                    the effects of his bath. " I am getting too old
- A wily foe." returned Brion.           to travel in such a barbarous country. Ma
"And not only wily but terrible I" resumed  foil I should have been drowned, but for your
the trapper.                               friendly aid."
"Terrible to those whpm le marks for de-   " Then by being here was providential," re-
etr'etion ; to others he may be quite differ- plied Brion.
eat "                                        " Evidently so ; thanks be to the Divine Be.
" It wouldn't be strange if we should foller ing !" sad the stranger, fervently.
art'r them that has felt his power, and gone  " We were performing a melancholy service
under the sile. We ought to think of the fu- when you appeared, which we will now com-
tur, and he ready to go at a second's warnini'. plete.  We were on the point of committing
In case I should be the fast to give up airtlily - the mortal remains of a fellow-being to the
things, I want you to take Flash and bea good  keeping of this river..' .-
maser to him-the faithful brute."            -" I n deed o a sad affair to- perform in this
" It's my opinion you are destined for a loin  great solitude; one of your companions, doubt-
life and a happy one'; nevertheless, should I hes?"  ,
outlive you, Flash shall never want care and  "Guns and gunpowder, no 1" exclaimed
attention ; he shall receive no stinted rations Buckeye. " We don't associate with sicn.",
of provender, his work shall be light, and he  "Please come this way, sir," requested Brion.
shall die of old age "                       "lDiable! he was shot with an arrow !' cried
"That sounds right and 'proper, and ar- theFrenchman.
ra nres all my airthly matters, with the excep-  " And it was a fate he richly desarved, though
tion of my rifle and sich like,'which you must we shouldn't'judge too harshly of our fdler-
keep in renemibrance of Buckeye-the free ereters," said Buckeye.
trapper."                                   , "He was a bad nian, then-?"
" A brave soldier frequently mnkes his will  " He hadn't no principles, whatsomer ;-he
while going to battle; but let us hope that I was in the employment of Pierre Mariot, part.
shall not execute yours until I am myself a ner in the firm of Bellmar &amp; Mariot, of Weat-
very cid man. Now tell me where you have   port," rejoined the trapper.
been ; to get help, I dare sav "            The Frenchman seemed astounded, locking
"Yes, I started for the canon, but met one from Brion to Buckeye and from Buckeye to
of your old trappers well mounted, and sent Brion, as if he could not well credit what had
hiro with the news of your capture. Before been affirmed.
noon, twenty-five brave fellers will be here-  "It appears to work you up somewhat, stra-
einan ys that won't shrink from a skrimniage."  eer ; but sich a spettacle as this may nat'rally
" We shall need them, possibly, for another do so. Perhaps you've heard of Redpath, and
purpose."                                  perhaps you hav'nt ; but whether you have or
" To pursue Mariot and Headley ?"        haven't-and it probably don't make no great
" That is my design," said Brion. "But I odds-jest look afore ye, and you'll see a speci-
riust attend to the last wish of this poor fel- mint of his work."
low, which was to give him a burial in the   "This is most wonderful!" said the stranger,
waters of the Nebraska."                   trembling with excitement. " I have heard of
'Tie body was lifted upon Brion's horse and  Redpath. I hope this is the only white man lie
carried to'the river, to the sunmnit of a cliff has killed-within your knowledge ?"
overhanging the -water. While they were pre-  "I wish it was, but it isn't, by no means
piaring it for its final resting-place, a horseman sev'ral have felt his arrows-and knocked under
was seen upon the opposite bank, who, per- -as 'twere."
eeiving the mountaineers, called to them, de-  The Frenchman now looked attentively at
h-iig to know if the river was fordable. The the partisan.
cn tainn infor'med him that there was a sand-  "If I mistake not," he said, 'this is Captain
if- rei'biiig two-thirds of the distance across, Brion, the famous mountaineer?"
itr notvit standing, he would in some places  "My name is Brion," replied the captain,
fin  it beyond his horse's depth.          modestly, "but I believe I am not very fa-
The stranger attempted the passage, succeed- mous."
Ru: very well until within twenty yards of the  "Thanks to the intercession of the saints!
w re, wen-the horse not being a very pow- this is well. Perhaps you can tell me some.
erfd su iiinier, and the water being deep and  thing concerning my daughter, Mignon?" said
,wit-he was horne downward with the cur- the Frenchman, hurriedly.
r: and his life endangered,  The partisan   "Otters I are you the' old gentleman 1" ex-
p.reeiv lug his peril,,did nit hesitate to plunge I claimed Buckeye. "Well, I may say the cap'n

76

I

has behaved real handsome toward the gal.
He'r been the same as a father to her, and bro-
ther, too, for that matter, with a little sister
thrown in. Bless you, sir, he's run all sorts of
risk! twelve tires-three dafs--roastin'-pine
splinters, and so on."
"For which he will accept a father's grati-
tude. Lead me to her at once."
SI'm not much in the habit of advisin' peo-
ple older nor myself, but if I might be allowed
to speak in a case like this, I should say.keep
down your nat'ral feelin's till we find her.
When she's once diskivered, you can be led to
her, I reckon ; but till then, I' don't think it
can be done.  The truth is, that oncommon
woman slipped away from us when we wasn't
expecting ' it; if it hadn't been for that sareum-
stance, you wouldn't have seen us here, for
we're arter her."
Mr. Bellmar's countenance indicated the
depths of his disappointment, while Brion pro-
ceeded to explain the matter as well as he
could; in addition to which, he made a general
statement of lI that had happened to Mignon,
as far as he .new.
"1 trust," said Monsier Bellmar, after a
pause, " that my daughter's deportment has
been at all times such as becomes --~, of her
years and sex ?"
"Guns and gunpowder! if she'd been Queen
of England, she couldn't conducted herself no
better! I say it without meanin' no hurt to
anybody of her kind ; but I've never seen her
equal, on the prairies or off, in towns or cities,
and I'm forty and up'ards."
Buckeye spoke with particular enthusiasm,
rounding the final period with a vigorous cut
of his right band through the air.
Bellmar looked gratefully at the trapper,pf
whose sincerity he had not a doubt, his earnest-
ness fully attesting to his honesty.
CHAPTER XV.
CONCLUSION.
Leaving these parties, we return once more
to Mignon. She had retired as usual, but 'a
little after midnight was awakened by a sense
of suffcation, and discovered that a hiandher-
chief was tied tightly across her month, and
her hanils firmly held by a man, who instantly
ra-ihecr in his arms, and bore her swiftly from
th tant -
" 13 quiet, mademoiselle! no-personal ijnju ry
onN  epect is intended," shil i voice, w iich
&amp;   -e m'- Ottz-d' as Ileadley's. l inon rstr-
aii ott-rupted to afarmi the cl p .bur,
s UICdle-y her f.ele st'eniehi avai ed
Ung 'ihe waus soon cleari oif tie Sioin. whei
w       ;i pie1 d  upon  a  h "rse ; but the  hailke'-
chief wag not removed until she had ridden as
tuie tinher, where I[h a ley wasjie1 by
B0 -riakeri', who had j reached the sp-lt,
i e-vri-al horses, herOwli: owniamiir the nTin i-
ber, which, as the reader knows, he had stolen

i
f
1
i
i
t
1
t

Mignon being free from the restraint of the
handkerchief, was of course at liberty to ex-
press her indignation at such an outrage; a
privilege of which she did n'ot hesitate to avail
herself.
" Mademoiselle Bellmar, I am acting under
the influence of a passion that masters me. Do
not hold me responsible for my deeds ; indeed,
you have driven me mad !" said he.
" You screen yourself under a miserable sub-
terfuge ! You cannot disguise from me the faet
that you are acting under the instructions of
Pierre Mariot," Mignon replied.
"t In adoring you, I moat certainly do not act
under his orders," returned the Missourian.
" Tell inc your purpose?" said Mignon.
" My hope is that at soie future time you
will come to regard me in a manner far mole
kindly," responded Headley, with an air of hu-
mility.
" If you would have such hope realized,
conduct me whence you have taken me," sh
replied.
" That I cannot consent to do ; though if you
will, I will save you from  annoyance from
Marion "
" That you may annoy me yourself! Yes,1I
see ; but the change will not be welcomed by
me. I demand my liberty ; and you cannot, if
a man of honor, refuse my wish.  When wo-
man sues, man should not be inflexible."
"I could witness your death with more calm-
ness than your return to Captain Bion, Misti\
Behlmar !" he exclaimed, with emphasis.
" Then entreaties are vain; and it only re-
mains for me to submit to my fate, begging,,
however, to be treated with the deference due
to any sex and honor," said Mignon, despair-
inglv.
" You can do no more and no better, made.
moiselle. If you prefer, you may ride your own
nurse, you perceive lie is here ?"
"Yes, I prefer to ride Brave, suffer me to do
so." It was some alleviation of her distress to
fid herself upon her favorite steed again ; and
she indulged also a secret hope that shne might
escape by reason of his speed, by taking advan-
tage of some moment when Headley was less
watchful. She observed that blankets had been
cut in pieces and tied upon the horses' feet to
reader the trail indistinct; also that the hard-
est ground was chosen to favor the same intent.
The party crossed the Nebraska before sunrise,
upon a raft that had been constructed for that
purpose; which was destroyed when tiey
n ached the shore. Mignon's patience and firmi-
iiess was then put to a sever e t, for Mariot
jo neh them, accompanied by Kincaid, but the
hitter imn iediately left with Beavertaker, and
did not return.
1.'i'iot affected a dignity and reserve which
il  0on knew was foreign to his character,and
wi,'i i was assumed to cover his designs frotn
i lidlIv, also to awe the fair captive intc si-

I I

/


73              THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

They now traveled very fast, Pierre being
care-ii to keep at some distance from the young
.aty, wishing to escape her keen questioning,
and deserved rebuke. Mignon quickened the
pace of Brave and rode to his side. She de-
sured to be informed by what authority he as-
toied the control of her person, and where he
intended to conduct her. Mariot replied to the
eiffct that she must content herself not to know
at present, but that all, eventually, would re-
sult to her advantage.
This was unsatisfactory; Miss Bellmar urged
her just interrogatories with becoming spirit.
The Frenchman finally grew angry, and re-
proached her for rejecting him at Westport,
accusing her also of unmaidenly conduct in
placing herself under the protection of Captain
Brion, a rough and rude trapper, not fit for the
companionship of one gently reared, and pos-
sessed of lady-like and refined instincts.
"Evil-minded, invidious man I" exclaimed
Mignon', vexed and wounded by his base inti-
maions. "My aversion for your character mo-
umaeutarily increases. Think not to shake my
constancy of purpose, or conquer my contempt
for you."
Headley, who was riding in the rear, hear-
ing the altercation, rode up, and reproved
Mariot for his bad temper, though in language
not offensive. Pierre choked down his resent-
ment, and no more conversation of that nature
ensued.
As many of Headley's men as Mariot was
able to mount, had been sent forward the day
previous; these they overtook before night ;
they were to' wait for the remainder at a cer-
tain place known to Beavertaker and Kincaid,
who were to meet them upon the stolen horses,
and conduct them there by another route.
Mignon complained of fatigue, and requested
Headley to encamp for the night-an artifice
which she hoped would prove advantageous
to Brion, who, she doubted not, would be able
to findthe trail, notwithstanding all the pre-
cautions taken. Mariot objected to this pro-
jsal, wishing to hurry on as fast as possible,
till morning. A difference of opinion there.
upon arose, which was decided by vote among
the men, and against the judgment of Mariot.
This c-circumstance engendered ill-feeling be.
tween the leaders, which, enhanced by mutual
}ealousy, showed itself often the following day.'
Ml!g non foresaw a quarrel, which, possibly,
might produce some change in her favor, yet
inwardly fearing the crisis that seemed ap-
proaelbing. The same scene in regard to
caipitig was enacted at the close of the second
d y., with the same results. Mignon slept, and
was hopeful-more hopeful than at any time
since her abduction.
The morning sun arose with peerless bright-
ness. Nature was glorious in her beauty. The
wide-spreading prairies exhaled life and fra-
grance. The little camp was astir. Mignon

stood near Brave, with her eyes turned wist,
fully toward the Wind River Mountains, from
which she was daily receding. Could she for.
get the scenes thpt ha.i transpired at the feet
of those mighty ranges? Never= They had
impressed their thrilling events upon her soul,
to remain there as long as life and memory
lasted.
Mariot approached. Mignon remarked that
his face wore a gloomy expression. Headley
followed him; both stopped a few paces from
her.
"I hope," she said, addressing Mariot, "that
you have come to tell me that you regret what,
you have done ?"
- "No," he moodily replied ; "I only regret
your perverseness."
" How will you account for your conduct to
my father?" resumed Mignon.
"That need not give you uneasiness," re.
turned Mariot.
"Did the thought ever occur to you, Mon-
sieur Mariot, that Red path may be near us ?'
inquired Mignon, after a pause.
- Diable I" exclaimed Mariot, with a slight
shudder. " I wish you would never speak
that-name in my hearing."
" Is the dread of that man, then, so strong
upon you ?" she continued.
"You have chosen an inauspicious subject,
mademoiselle!" impatiently rejoined Mariot.
"Possibly so ; but, perhaps, you believe in
omens, premonitions, and such things ?" re-
sumed Miss l3ellmar, perceiving the theme
annoyed him.
"It matters not ; it can make no great dif-
ference in our present relations. That I feel
dark within, and an unwonted gloom weighs
heavily upon me, I confess. I will acknow-
ledge even more than this--there is a vague,
yet terrible fear of death upon me !"
Mariot stood with his face to Mignon, his
arms folded on his breast., His eyes were
turned to her, while he spoke, with an expres-
sion that seemed to ask sympathy. At this,
moment, his lips ceased moving, he groaned,
and fell at Mignon's feet, who, thinking he had
fainted, looked at him with contempt; but
that feeling changed to absolute awe when she-
discovered the shaft of an arrow, the point of
which was lodged in his brain.  While she
gazed at this spectacle, so unexpected and so
fearful, a man rushed from a growth of pinon
just behind her, and, embracing her, exclaimed:
"My daughter! my'daughter!"
" My dear father!" cried Mignon, recovering
somewhat from her bewilderment, and return-
ing his caresses.          . :t
" Beavers and otters I"
Mignon raised her eyes, and saw rion and
Buckeye approaching, and hel out both
hands to them.
"Welcome! most welcome!" s e exclaineie
with a radiant smile.

I

THE BUCKEYE RANGER.

79

c

I

"Guns and gunpowder !-the cap'n's been   meaningless things. But, Son of the Buffalo,
most distracted, and gone through all sorts of I it is different with thee ; thou hast a country,
dangers-twelve fires-three days-roasting- thou bast Lilyface."
pine splinters !" added Buckeye, venturing tr  " I have much to live for," said Brion.
touch Mignon's little hand.                  "Your people are growing in greatness,
"For which he has my eternal gratitude," even as mine are dwindling away," added
said Monsieur Bellmar. '                   Ravenelaw, sadly. "Your nation will soon
"And mine, I am sure," said Mignon.     flow over these mountains, and my race will
"Beard of Smith! he wants more'n that-  be pressed to the sea. But I shall not live to
he wants you, yourself!" quoth Buckeye, see it; I shall have passed to the hunting-
bluntly.                                   grounds when the white zaan plants upon the
"if my father does not say 'No,' why-I graves of my fathers."
think we may possibly arrange it," said Mig- " Go with me to the cities of the white
non.                                       ma," suggested Brion.'
"Upon my soul! I believe it's arranged     "Cursed be the cities of white men !" cried
already, and very well arranged, too ! Diable ! Ravenclaw.
this wretched man died suddenly," added/Bell-  " Ravenclaw, you have a noble nature," said
mar.                                 I     Mignon. advancing, and laying her hand on his
"There's another that ought to follow him," amin. He looked down upon her and smiled.
affirmed Buckeye. " Where is the cretur, I The sunlight shining upon his lofty brow lent
wonder ."                                  a strange charm to his face.
Brion looked around for Headley, but he    "The voice of Lilyface is like the dove," he
had disappeared ; and we will remark here, as added, softly.
the most appropriate place, that he was never  " Tell me," resumed Mignon, in a low tone,
seen, again by any one of the parties ; what her hand still upon his arm, "who is-Red.
became of him is not known.                path ?'
Awed by the fate of Mariot, disappointed by . He drew back haughtily, pushing her gently
the flight of Headley,' and convicted of the from him ; his eyes glittered like fire
error they had committed, the gold-seeker!   " Lilyface has a short memory ; she has for-
_fiocked around the partisan, and manifested gotten what she heard in yonder mountains.
such signs of repentance, and begged so -hard lied path is the son of the Eagle, and lie scorns
to be received into his band again, that he for- to share his secret with another. Again I say,
gave them The whole party immediately set I know him not; that to mei he is the greatest
out on their return to the encampment at the of all mysteries-mysterious as the soul within
eanon. The trappers that had started for the me.  I repeat it--Redpath will live unknown
rescue of Brion from the Blackfeet accompa- --he will die high up in the cliffs--no Cia's
nied him to the rescue of Mignon, but were shall hear his passing tlhunddri-thie pale-face
concealed in a wood about half a mile distant. shall never behold his grave. ,To the great
While the body of Mariot was being in. and awful Master of Life he will commend his
terred, the partisan and Mignon walked alone, spirit, and pass away as become his name and
discoursing of recent events. The latter, hear- deeds. Son of the Buffalo, adieu!, Lilyface--"
ing a sound behind her,,turned and beheld the chiefs voice faltered a Jittle-"' Lily face
Ravenclaw. Brion also discovered him at the farewell, forever !"
same moment.                                 Ravenelaw.eprang from the rock ; his majes.
" Son ofthe Buffalo'I" said he, calmly, "the tic figure was visible an instant, and then was
Great Spirit has given you a charmed life. hidden from  tlaeir sight--they saw him  no
You have conquered your enemies ; you have more.
been as successful in love as on the trail. You Brion's trapping campaigns are over. By his
will live muany moons, and be happy."      own fireside he talks with Mignon of Red path.
" Chief of the Blackfoot natiopi, may you Balaam, too, participates in his curiosity., Mig
live longer and be happier than. I I" answered non grows pensive at the mention of his name,
Brion,.earnestly                           and is persuaded to this day, that Ravenclaw
I ask not for life,"'returned Ravenelaw, and Red path wre one; while Buckeye, in his
roudly. 1"The rising and setting of suns can annual visits to Westport, swears by the "heard
bring no joy to the soul of Ravenelaw ; the of Smith," whatever Mignon says must be trie.
, ewamng aud falling of moons are to him but
THE. END

A


IK~I
1 q -

ETHEL TREVOR.
BY GEORGE W, M. REYNOLDS.

CHAPTER I.                   that the corpse of Ivan Zadouski was convey
ed to the house of Mr. and Mrs. Grills, and
HESTER.                  that a girl Hester, stealing down stairs; from
A. GREAT CRDri had been committed in the her own chamber, peeped into the scullery
modern Babylon, or rather in that vast city and beheld the appalling spectacle which hast
en the-Thames which combines in itself more already been alluded to.
than all Babylon and Nineveh ever held       We must now suppose thata couple of days
within their capacious walls.             t.xve lapsed ; and it is the evening of the 4th
The crime'of which we speak did not ada C y:::e of which we are going to write.
another illustrious name to the bloody cata-  It was between nine and' ten o'clock that
logue of those noble victims who have glori- Henri Ponchard made his way to the house
fled the axe and the block in the gloomy to which we have alluded, and where he was
chambers of the Tower.   The unfortunate instantaneously admitted.,
person in this case was a man of obscure po-  In a few moments he was closeted with Mr.
sition, who had fallen a victim to the fears of and Mrs. Grills in the parlor;. and havig
compatriots, who had shin him as a spy, be- tossed off a dram  of brandy which was pre-
lieving he had revealed to the French Am- seated to him, he inquired-'.
bassador in London a contemplated plot in   "Any news ? has anything occurred?. is
which they were engaged, and thus not only everything all right ?"
frustrating the intended undertaking, but al-  le did not puts these queries anxiously or
so rendering- them all liable at iny moment nervously . indeed he did not seem in any
to feel the far-reaching fangs.of despotic powe  hurry to set his mind at rest upon those
er.                                       points; for though passionate and excitable
This person was  m ed Ivan Zadouski - lt  when Prgsged in nfr)ument. especially on p-
ter he had fallen l2  beneath the daggers I.Beal subjects, he was cool-neaea and self-
of his fellow-conspirators, they were seized possessed -on all occasions when there was
with a sudden panic-a dread of discovery- need for resolute action and calm .intrepi-
a fear lest the corpse being discovered, the dity.
murder should become known, end the whole "Everythink as' right as a trivet," said
party be arrested and punished. When they Mr. Grills, thus giving a general answer to,
had somewhat recovered from their fears, it the several questions -that had been put.
was suggested by one of their number-Hen-    "So much the better," observed Ponebard,
ri Ponchard--that the lifeless body should but with a certain coolness, or even a callous-
be secretly taken to the house of a certain ness, just as if he would have been by no
person, from whence it might afterwards be means surprised to receive intellgence some-
removed.   .                              what less favorable. " Nothing suspicious
It was on the night of the 2nd of June in that quarter-you know what I mean ?"

i
r.
ti
,. ,


  
             
         
       
   
