
    ----CITATION----
        Roath, David L.. The Five Love Adventures of Solomon Slug .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7599
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The five love adventures of Solomon Slug 
            
               SOLOMON AND OTHER S KI    THE FIVE LOVE ADVENTURES OF SOLOMON SLUG. AND BY DAVID L. ROATH, AUTHOR OF "THE BANDIT," ETC., ETC. NEW-YORK: BUNGE & BROTHER, 134 NASSAU STREET. 1852.     ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 185, by DAVID L. ROATH, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New-York. ANGELL, ENGEL'& HRWITT, Printers, No. 1 Spruce st., N. Y.   CONTENTS. SOLOMON SLUG,  .  .    .         13 A GEORGIA COURT,  .    .  .  THE VILLAGE INN,! *  .  .  .       114 THE MAN WHOSE MOTHER DID NT KNOW HE WA' OUT, 123 THE GREAT USED UP.   .  .    .      135 ICHABOD ICICLE.            .    151 BLOOD! i    .  .  .        .  . 160   SOLOMO    FIVE LOVE ADVENTURES OF SOLOMON SLUG. CHAPTER I. MSS MELVINA HYDROGENA SLOPP. Miss MELVINA HYDROGENA SLOPP was the belle of Sloppville. Her father was an old soap-boiler, but people who knew this could not discover that it affected the beauty of Miss Mel. in the slightest particular. She was heiress in fact to the soap- boiling establishment and the profits of the same for a long series of years, and in prospective to the hoards of a superannuated maternal uncle who had once condescended to pass a couple of days in Sloppville, and had even been heard to say that Mel. was a pretty child and would one day be rich. It was at a party that I first beheld this paragon of perfection, and oh! spirits of departed lovers! how my bosom thrilled when I clapped eyes on her. I felt a sort of an all-overishn9ps that is perfectly indescribable. Her hair floated   // a14     BVE 'LOVE ADVENT uXS all over her neck in the most beautiful shiny black ringlets imaginable-her teeth were the whitest and evenest I had ever before seen-faith! but it is impossible I can give the remotest idea of her matchlessness if I were to scratch away till the stars dropped out of the sky. Oh! she was a splendid looking biped, and no mistake! I am not such an awful looking creature myself. People have flattered me on my personal appear- ance over and again. I never had a desire to get married before, though I flatter myself that it would not have been such a very difficult matter for me to have made a good selection from the beauties of my native town. But I was in love with Miss Slopp, and it would be useless for me to attempt denying the fact. I felt almighty queer- my heart appeared to be crawling up into my throat, and often I was actually afraid to open my lips to speak for fear it would tumble out of my mouth. The little god Cupid had shot one of his biggest and sharpest arrows right slap into my bosom, and I was morally certain that the wound would cause my death unless I could get it healed with- the plaster of marriage. I shook all over like an aspen leaf-every blank page of my books, and the margins of all the papers I could lay hands on, were covered with Melvina Hydrogena. My friends thought I was a victim to the galloping   O? SOLOMON SLUGO.     15 consumption-in three days I had lost thirteen pounds of fat. I was a case, but not for the doctors. It appeared that I had struck Miss Slopp's fancy, for on the fourth morning after the party, I received a little pink colored sheet of paper with whole heaps of what looked like miniature sheep stuck in the corners, but what upon a very close inspection turned out to be imitations of doves, informing me that Miss Slopp would be at home that day from twelve till two. At least twenty times I read and put it carefully away in the pocket of my best satin vest, and at least twenty times I took it out and read it again. No one but a lover can tell how awfully foolish a lover feels! My cheeks burned like fire as I lifted the old black knocker on Mr. Slopp's front door ex- actly as the clock struck twelve, and let it fall as timidly as if I was frightened at the slight noise it made. Miss Slopp was lazily lounging on a torn bottomed sofa by the window when I entered. She merely nodded and motioned me to a chair. "How do you do, to-day, Mr. Slug?" she said, after a pause. "Tol-er-a-ble," I replied. "How do you do yourself ." "Middling, I thank you." "Are you married? 'she inquired.   16     OTVE LOVE ADVENTURES Here was a chance! Good Lord," thinks I to myself, " if I let this noble opportunity slip I may never get another." It was some moments before I could stop the choking in my throat so as to answer, but I did at last muster sufficient courage. "No, I ain't married, but I guess I should like to be, ' I said. "Whom would you like to have?" "I should like to have you!" "Oh!!" I have a dim recollection that at this interesting juncture I dropped on one knee after the most approved manner of lovers in fashionable novels, and actually forgot myself so far as to shake my fist in her face, while I clapped the other hand on the floor to keep from falling. I had taken two or three heavy drinks at a bar-room to fortify myself, but in spite of that I felt my Dutch courage oozing rapidly away. I blubbered-she blubbered-we both blubbered. I tried to get off of the floor to console her, but in rising I made a lee lurch and capsized, falling on the old cat, who had been quietly dozing on the rug, and who not only raised a squall that is yet ringing in my ears, but turned and nearly bit a piece out of my leg. I grabbed the cat and sent her flying out of the window, while Miss Slopp went off into hysterics. I absolutely danced with pain-jumping hither   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      1'T and thither about the room, overturning chairs tables and everything else that stood in my way. The agony of the bite soon subsided, and I turned my attention to the fair cause of all my distress." She had not yet recovered, so I seized a kettle of water and dashed it over her face. Heavens and earth! it was boiling water! She was on her feet in an instant, roaring like a mad bull. An enor- mous dog had crept into the room to ascertain the cause of all this uproar, and he now began bark- ing as if possessed with a devil. I grasped the poker and endeavored to drive him out, but he retreated under a table, every now and then jumping out to snap, at my shins. At last I managed to burn his nose with the red hot end of my weapon. He travelled now in double quick time down'the stairs, and ran bellowing into the street, where he was met by a crowd of people who gave chase, yelling "mad dog!"I returned to Miss Slopp. I thumped her on the back-I pulled her nose-I slapped her face, but it was a long time before she thought proper to revive. She did revive, though, and after telling her that I would see her father, and recommending her to take care of herself, I departed. One would naturally suppose that after this awful trial my love would have evaporated. But not so. The flame burned ten times stronger than   18,     rV LOVE ADVJN'UIs ever, and I resolved to see her father immediately and apply for his consent to our union. I found him up to his elbows in soap grease. I laid the matter before him-I told him of our loves-I pictured to him the agony we should both undergo should he refuse his assent-I showed him my lacerated leg, but to all this he returned a decided negative. My funds were low-Miss Slopp was an heiress. I called him an old brute, for which he intimated that I had better make tracks or I should be immediately ejected from the premises i et armis. I fled to her to procure her consent to an instant elopement. I ran into the parlor, but she was not there. I took a chair, and plainly overheard the following conversation, which was carried on by her and the maid in an adjoining apartment: "He's gone to ask pa to let him have me, I know," said Miss Slopp. "But," replied the maid, "maybe your pa won't agree." "Then we'll run away. He's such a nice man.. Give me my hair. If he should come back and find me without my curls, maybe he would 'nt like it. Men hate red hair." "O Lord! i" thought I, "has she got red hair?" "Now bring my bustle," continued Miss Slopp. "How much cotton did you get put in?"   ZOF SOLOMON BSLU.     19 "Six pounds." Six pounds of cotton! I came near fainting. "Now my set of teeth, Betty, and my padded frock, and then I 'll be fixed!" This was too much-I could'nt stand it. Six pounds of cotton in a bustle, false hair, set of false teethy and a padded frock! What! I marry such a thing? I Oh, ye gods, forbid! I made one leap for the door, and fled! Some time afterwards, when I was far distant from the scene of my misfortunes, I read 1an adver- tisement by Mr. Slopp in the Sloppville Herald offer- -ing a reward for the "rascal" who had promised to marry his daughter and then run away. I sup- pose she wanted to sue me for breach of promise, but I kept snug, and never again saw or heard of my first love. i   sO2     rIV LOVE ABVENXUUiES CHAPTER II. MSS EUGENIA NITROGENA WASH. FOR a long time after my flight from Miss Mel- vina Hydrogena Slopp, I had not the courage to look a woman in the face. Every one I met, in doors or in the street, appeared to be laughing at me-I was continually in my peregrinations gazing stealthily over my shoulder with the expectation of beholding the finger of some fair one pointed at me in derision, and the words, "There goes the man that run away from Miss Slopp!" were ever ring- ing in my ears. Though this existed only in imagination-for I had placed four hundred miles between Sloppville and myself-I could not for more than six months divest myself of the idea that every one I chanced to meet knew all about my flight. This was horrible-it completely unnerved me-I seemed to have just recovered from an attack of the rEal shaking ague. At night I dreamed of Miss Slopp, and often woke up to find myself bawling with all the power of my lungs, "Slopp I Slopp! Slopp!"All day I thought of Miss Slopp, answering many a question relating to busi-   C1 SOLOMON SLUG.     21 ness with the awful monosyllable "Slopp!"Once I walked into a hotel to console myself with a glass of lemonade-when the bar-keeper desired to know what I would take, I replied  Slopp!"  He remarked with an oath that the article was not kept at that establishment, and said by way of finale, that if I had no better manners than to come into a fashionable place of resort and inquire for slops, I was insane or drunk, and should be immediately carried to at asylum or jail. Volumes would scarcely suffice to contain an account of the thou- sands of mistakes I made. Time does wonderful things in affairs of this kind. When six or eight terrible months had passed, I began again to feel as if I might be of some use in the world, and forthwith unceremoniously consigned Miss Slopp and all her kindred to oblivion. Every- thing had gone to wreck while the fit was upon me-I seldom shaved-seldom washed my face- seldom had my clothes or boots brushed-in fact, I cared but little what became of me. But now I' donned my best apparel-shaved regularly three times a week, only permitting, a small elegant moustache to display itself on my countenance, and patronised the establishment of the most fashionable tailor. I was a new man-a " change had come o'er the spirit of my dream." I went to my busi- ness with alacrity, and those who had formerly   22      A:vB LOVE ADVEMTrU Us doubted my sanity, or circulated the opinion that I was uncommonly weak in the upper story, stared with open eyes and gaping mouths, and candidly acknowledged that they were wholly mistaken. By degrees I gained courage-I no longer shrank back and turned purple when I looked womankind in the face, but pulled off my hat and bent my back with all my former grace. The frowns of the ladies changed to smiles-if I was not quite a "Iion" among them, I was very near it. Business called me to a distant town. I preferred a voyage by water, not liking to encounter the various obstacles incident to a voyage by land, and therefore took a steamboat. There were but three passengers besides myself. These were an old manufacturer of shoes, who was returning to deposit  his bones in the city of his childhood; his daughter, a young lady of sweet seventeen, and a sixth or seventh cousin, who had been for eighteen months assiduously employed in following her hither and thither, doubtless with the very laudable intention of eventually obtaining her affections, together with the good round sum which the old man had scraped up by hammering and stitching for forty years. She was not over tall for her age, but her figure was most symmetrically proportioned-her large, deep blue eyes completely threw those of Miss Slopp not only into the shade but into the utter-   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      23 most realm of darkness, and her feet were so exquisitely small that they seemed scarcely compe- tent to the task of sustaining her light weight. Her name, which I obtained from the list of pas- sengers, was Miss Eugenia Nitrogena Wash, and that of her companion and admirer, Mr. Augustus Napoleon Shaw. He was a perfect boor-his hair was as white as a sheep's fleece, and his face was covered with enormous bumps. These, however, were not the only peculiarities in his appearance. I would have certified that his lips had never met, for while one seemed to be making love with all its might to his chin, the other was sedulously cultivat- ing an acquaintance vith the tip of his nose. One of his eyes was red, the other a pale green. He was rather bandy-legged, and one arm was shorter than the other by a couple of inches. "Surely," I thought, "this rough specimen of animated nature stands but a slim chance of persuading Miss Euge- nia Nitrogena Wash to change her name to Mrs. Augustus Napoleon Shaw!" On the first day I scraped an acquaintance with I Mr. Shaw, and was by him introduced to the object  of his adoration. She had a very delightful voice, but I quickly perceived that her education had been greatly npilected; indeed, she had no educa- tion at all. That made not the slightest difference in the world to me-her father rejoiced in the   24     FIVE LOVE ADVENTURES possession of a hundred thousand dollars! She was young-by close application for a few months she could acquire knowledge sufficient to make her entree into society-that thought was enough! I was again violently in love, if not irrecoverably. I entirely cut the companionship of Mr. 'Gus, and devoted myself entirely to Miss Wash. She ap- peared much pleased with my attentions, thereby driving Mr. 'Gus half crazy with jealousy and my- self with joy. I gave not a thought to her father. He was seventy years old and as deaf as a door post. He enjoyed himself with brandy in the cabin while I murmured love to his daughter on deck. "Miss Wash," I exclaimed, as I seated myself beside her, " did you ever read Romeo and Juliet?" "Not as I knows on. I never reads." "You have no taste for literature?" "No, I never had no eddication. 'Gus there reads to me sometimes whenever he gits hold of anything funny." "My dear Eugenia-permit me to call you by that sweet and truly beloved name--you must have perceived from my conduct and attentions that I am deeply in love with you. You are the most beautiful creature that I ever beheld-born to love and be loved, it is time you gave your heart and hand to some one capable of making you happy. Such a man I am myself-I pledge you my word   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      25 of honor that such a man am I! Tell me, oh, tell me that I have not given my affections to one un- worthy of receiving them!" Didn't I do the thing up rich! I happened to recollect some passage similar to that in the last sentimental novel. She replied quickly, and with immense naivete, ![ "I don't know what all that's about." "Dearest, I am now declaring my love with fear and trembling." 'Did you say you'd marry me " "I should be the happiest man on earth would you allow me to call you by that dearest of names -wife!" There was another extra touch! "'Gus wants to marry me himself. Pa says yes, but 'Gus is so ugly. And you've got such a horrid name!" "Why, dearest, the Slugs were the greatest men in America at one period. I have run for office myself." That was true as preaching. Some two years be- fore I had been nominated and run for a seat in the legislature, and most undoubtedly should have been elected if the opposing candidate had not received more votes than myself. This was the only reason why I did not take my seat among the law-makers. I took good care not to tell her that, though. 2   26 a    FIVE LOVE ADVETTURES "Why la! you're a greater man than 'Gus, and you're a heap better looking too. If pa says yes, I will marry you in spite of 'Gus." "Thank you, Eugenia. You have made me happy beyond measure by this avowal." As I turned round to leave my seat I saw Mr. Augustus Napoleon Shaw swiftly rise from behind a box near by and travel towards the cabin. He had evidently been eavesdropping, but I discovered him too late, and all I could do would be to hurry down and speak first to the old man. Mr. Shaw was in the cabin when I entered it. He grinned and made himself scarce. "Mr. Wash," I said, ' I have a few words to say to you concerning your daughter." "I see your lips move," he answered, "but I can't hear you. Speak louder, if you please." " I want to marry your daughter," I screamed. I heard a loud laugh behind me, and saw Mr. Shaw standing in the open door giggling with all his power. Three or four of the smoky faced crew were gaping over his shoulders. I was in a delicious predicament. The old wretch didn't yet understand me. "You've seen a fairy and caught her?" he mut- tered. "Ain't that curious? I should like to see one. Where have you put her?" "Mr. Wash, I want to marry your daughter," I   3Of3 SOLOMON SLUG.    27 cried. "' Curse your stupid old noddle, do you hear me now?" Another uproarious laugh from the delighted lookers-on! "Well, so you've told me once. But where have you put ier? Is she in the boat?" I essyed- once more. Drawing a long breath, I roared loud enough to be heard, over all the noise of the machinery, ", Hwant-to--marry-your- daughter!!!!" It was all of no avail. Either he didn't or wouldn't hear, and I was compelled to retire with- out having made him comprehend a word. As I crept out of the cabin, Mr. Shaw placed his thumb against his nose in the most elegant manner, spread out his fingers, and whistled a few bars of the "Rogue's March." I caught up a piece of wood, and threw it at him with all my strength, deter- mined on his utter annihilation, but the rascal dodged, and the missile struck the captain on the back of the head, knocking him headlong down the stairs. He scrambled up, swearing furiously that if there was any law in the land, I should go to jail when the boat reached the city. After much persuasion and explanation, he consented to drop the whole matter. I had intended, with the coop- eration of the captain, who despised him fully as much as myself, to play off several not vey innot   28     HETV3 LOVE BDVENTUlES cent tricks upon Mr. Shaw, but that worthy kept himself out of the way so very carefully, that I had no opportunity of carrying my intentions into exe- cution. Miss Eugenia agreed to go with me to a magistrate as soon as the boat should touch land, for the purpose of getting the nuptial knot tied by law. At last we got to the end of our journey. I de- spatched my trunk by a porter to a hotel, and pre- pared to proceed with Miss Wash to the residence of a magistrate. Old Wash and Mr. Shaw were gone when I stepped on deck. My intended, how- ever, remained behind. Taking her arm in mine, we left the boat and commenced our march. We were both highly elated with the idea of outwitting the father and cousin--loud and long did we laugh as we proceeded on our way, at the thought of their awful, astonishment and impotent rage when they should be informed that we were made one flesh. It was a beautiful day-the sun shone brightly on the evenly paved streets, crowded with beings. Many turned to look at us as we hurried on; I heard one old fellow remark, as we passed him, "there goes a happy couple!"We were happy! The house of the magistrate was pointed out to us-we directed our steps thither, and were already on the stairs leading to the door, when a tall fellow, holding in his hand a big club, jumped up, and XI   OP SOLOMON SLUG.      29 without one word grasped me by the collar and flung me down. By this time an immense crowd had collected-every hole poured forth its inhabi- tants, all of whom gathered round me, shaking their fists and brandishing their clubs as if determined to extinguish my vitality without further ado. I was finally pulled up and set upon my feet, two burly villains stationing themselves on each side of me with the view of preventing my escape. I struggled, I screamed, I stamped, I cursed, I kicked, but I was fast. I demanded to know the reason of this proceeding-I desired to learn what awful crime I had committed. Miss Wash had disap- peared during the melee-where she had gone to I did not know. In a few minutes the crowd began to move. I was dragged up steps and into the house, confronted with the magistrate, and then for the first time learned that I was charged with hav- ing about a year before assaulted and unmercifully beaten one of the most respectable citizens forx no cause whatever. I protested-I called upon all the spirits of the vasty deep to arise from their ocean bound caves and testify that I was not the guilty one. It was all perfectly clear to the mind of the sapient magistrate-I was exactly as tall as the man who had done the deed-I sported a mous- tache, so did he-I had a slight scar just back of my right ear, so had he. Several gentlemen came I   S0     rFIVE LOVE ADVENTUtES forward and testified that I resembled the real of- fender. Mr. Shaw and old Wash now entered, and I discovered that old Wash was a brother of the magistrate. I now saw the whole matter in a clearer light. To prevent me from marrying their relative, they had entered into a plot to palm me off upon justice as the true perpetrator of a heinous offence. I boldly charged them with having con- spired together-narrated all the circumstances of my situation to the bystanders, who only laughed in reply. I was fixed! The magistrate made out his commitment, and I was delivered over to an officer to be deposited for safe keeping in the jail. The jail was situated at the edge of the town, near the water. To reach it we would have to pass through five or six streets, and an equal number of narrow alleys. It was just dusk when we began our march. Myself and the officer walked on, fol- lowed by a host of men, women and children clamoring incessantly. I recollected the words of the poet, "Who would be free, himself must strike the blow," and mentally resolved to make one bold effort for that greatest of all privileges, liberty. We entered an alley that led to the water. Now was the time. I gave a deafening "whoop!" favored the officer with a blow that caused every bone in his body to   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      31 rattle, and tumbled him into an open cellar, and ran like lightning. On came the crowd, on, on, on. The confusion at the building of the Tower of Babel was as nothing to the tremendous uproar. On came the people, roaring like the waves of the sea. One fellow gained on me. I could distinctly hear him puffing and blowing close at my heels. I suddenly turned and struck him in the belly with such force that he doubled up like a snake. The crowd now kept at a more respectful distance. Before I had got to the end of the alley I had left fny pursuers far behind. I ran down the bank and jumped on ' board the first boat I came to, which, fortunately for me, was commanded by one of my oldest friends. tIe secreted me under a pile of lumber. The next day, search was made, but I was going from the city as rapidly as steam could carry me. A month or two afterwards, I learned that Mr. Augustus Napoleon Shaw had, immediately after my escape, become the happy possessor of the charms of Miss Eugenia Nitrogena Wash. It is morally certain that I did not congratulate them! b            "   32     FIVE LOVE ADVENTURES CHAPTER III. MSS AURELIA HYACINTHA FLOAT. IT may be thought strange-in fact, I thought it exceedingly strange myself-that after my second terrible disappointment in the match-making line, I should in the short space of three months recover myself so far as to calmly resolve to make a third attempt to enter into the state of matrimonial felicity. But so it was-instead of retiring from the field and settling down a confirmed bachelor, I got desperate, and determined to chain myself to some specimen of womankind as speedily as possible. But during those three months I suffered-ah! who can tell what agonies I suffered! Talk of the gout and cholera and small-pox and yellow fever! Bah! the combined pains of the four diseases were absolutely as nothing compared to the agonies of my mind. To be swindled-for I was swindled-out of a hundred thousand dollars, the only incumbrance being a half-witted wife whom at any time I could have sent to the Asylum for the Insane! The bare idea was horrible. I could not for my life see why existence was desir-   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      33 able. If I had thought of suicide I should most certainly have been spared the trouble of writing these adventures, for lead is not particularly ex- pensive, and I had still cash enough to purchase an ounce of the material for self destruction. Luckily for me I did not happen to think of that quick mode of ending my sorrows and existence together. I again swore vengeance against the entire race of womankind, though I was perfectly unaware upon whom or in what manner I could glut my revenge, for everybody who has ever had the slightest experience in such matters, knows that the "softer" sex always get the better on every oc- casion. In my first paroxysms I declared solemnly (and I really thought I should be able to keep my declaration) that before I would again involve myself in such a scrape I would with the utmost cheerfulness consent to be consigned to the subter- ranean dominions of his Satanic Majesty. It was a rash-a very rash vow indeed-I admit that I deserved strong censure for having made it-but where is he who can raise his hand in face of high Heaven and assert that I had not sufficient, aye, thrice sufficient provocation 8 Ah! I had not then- beheld Miss Aurelia Hyacintha Float! Her respectable sire kept a little shop in the village of Rome, from which 2*   34. '   FIV LOVE ADVENTURESB establishment he daily dispensed, from six o'clock in the morning until eight o'clock at: night, groceries and medicines to the requirements of his brethren. For a series of years he had had full possession of the greater portion of the busi- ness of the village, and at the period when it was my unlucky fortune to see him was reported to be worth at the lowest estimate, forty thousand dol- lars. In addition to his business as principal dealer in medicines and provisions, he was post- master, corn doctor, and upon a huge pine board nailed over the door of his shop, were displayed the words-"Boarders taken in here. "If he had added the words "and done for, " to his sign, nothing would have been wanting to complete the advertisement. On the morning when I niet this important personage, I had dropped from behind the stage at the outskirts of the village. The day before I had walked thirty-two miles. At evening the stage had overtaken me, and thinking that the horses attached to it were better able to carry than my legs to support me, I had jumped up behind and ridden all night. My appearance was not exactly as prepossessing as I could have wished-- my elbows had already worked their way through my coat-my boots were covered with mud-in fact, my apparel said plainly that my worldly   possessions were exceedingly limited. So I con- cluded to stop at a little distance from the village and furbish up before I made my debut. I sat down by a little stream that ran along the road- side, and took out my purse to examine the state of my finances. The amount was just one dollar and a half. The prospect did not seem very in- viting, but I never had the slightest intention of despairing while there was a solitary chance left. At the end of two hours, with the assistance of water and needles and thread, I had in a slight degree recovered my former appearance. With as light a heart as my circumstances would admit, I' rose to my feet and took up my line of march for the village, in which I only expected to stop until sufficiently rested to proceed to some considerable town or city where husband-hunting maidens are always thick as blackberries. I had not gone many paces along the street before I observed the sign over the door of Mr. Float. I had not the remotest acquaintance with that gentleman, but it was reduced to a certainty that I must stop some- where, and I was never particularly choice in my selection of the places which I should honor with my company. I walked in with' an air of the first importance and addressed him. "I see, sir, by your sign over the door that you take in boarders. " !    86     FFIVE LOVE ADVENTURES "Yes, sir," he replied, making an attempt at a low bow. "Very well, sir, I shall take up my quarters with you for a day or such a matter," I returned. "Then be kind enough to walk this way, sir." I followed him along a passage, up a staircase, which intimated by its straining and groaning that it had performed duty for no inconsiderable period of time, and into a twenty feet square room, which Mr. Float informed me was the parlor. In the centre of the "parlor" which, by the way, was wholly guiltless of carpet or window curtains, was a round table covered with three or four of the last newspapers from the nearest city, and which on inspection proved to have been issued not more than two 'months before. It was pretty cold, but the most ardent imagination could not have digni- fied the embers smoldering in the little shallow fire-place with the name of a fire. Before he left, Mr. Float announced to me that there were three others then patronising his boarding establishment, two gentlemen and a lady. I sat down and attempted to read, but one of the papers only contained a speech of the Member of Congress for that district on, the right of way through an uninhabitable and impassible swamp, and was moreover twenty columns in length. I was deterred by this from a perusal, so I took up   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      37 the other. The contents consisted of a call, in letters six inches long, for a meeting of the citizens to consider the expediency of refusing the pay- ment of taxes for the support of the Government, an advertisement offering fifty cents reward for the recovery of a runaway horse, and a notice to all concerned that Mr. Abraham Johns was about to- take the benefit of the Bankrupt Act. These in- teresting articles perused, I put on my hat and sallied out to endeavor by a rapid walk to restore animation to my nearly congealed blood. When I returned the inmates were assembled in the "s parlor" for a little chat preparatory to sup- per. It was customary with Mr. Float to leave a boy in charge of his shop every evening at tea time and a short while before, while he bestowed upon the boarders his company and edified them by his conversation On this occasion he was un- der a full head of steam. On one side of the fire sat a little dried up and wrinkled man, about fifty years of age, who was introduced as Mr. Larkey. At the table I discovered a gentleman whom at the first glance I set down as an adventurer like myself. He was somewhat above the common size, not particularly well made by nature, but particularly well finished by a tailor. He was very devoted in his attentions to Miss Julianna Spriggs, a young lady thirty-five years old at the  i   38     FIVE LOVE ADVENTURES least calculation, dressed in all the colors of the rainbow, and weighing, as near as I could judge, about two hundred and fifty pounds. He was known as Mr. Octavius Berkely. She was not less lavish of her nods and smiles than Mr. Berkely of his at- tentions. I placed her, not on the list of lionesses seeking whom they might devour, but on that of ladies seeking whom they might cajole into attend- ance upon them during their journey through natural life. It does not take long for a mode- rately good physiognomist to ascertain with whom he has to deal-I prided myself then, and I do so now, upon knowing the character of a man by looking at his countenance. I was nearly always mistaken in my surmises respecting women-if I had not been I should not have suffered quite so much as I have. Being a new comer, I did not take much part in the conversation, principally carried on by Mr. Float and Mr. Larkey. They were arguing upon the possibility of a rich man's getting into heaven, Mr. Larkey maintaining that the thing was incon-  trovertibly impossible and the idea absurd, and Mr. Float contending on the contrary side. I was just getting into a comfortable doze, when a re- mark made by Mr. Float opened my eyes and ears instantaneously. Mr. Berkely too, who was whispering in a very animated manner to Miss   OS SOLOMON SLUG.     39 Spriggs, turned his head with the speed of thought towards the speaker. "I maintain," observed Mr. Float, " that you take an entirely wrong view of the case. Your argument is ingenious, but it is not supported by facts. Now I probably am wealthier than any of my neighbors: indeed I may say that I have at my command the snug little sum of forty thousand dollars-and yet whenever there is preaching at our meeting-house I seldom fail to be there. I may not be much better than the generality of man- kind, but I flatter myself that I am fully as good. I have also endeavored to inculcate good principles in the mind of my daughter, now at a boarding- school, who is a fine young lady, though I say it myself, and to whom I shall bequeath the whole of my property on earth of every description." Mr. Float had a daughter, then, and forty thousand dollars to give her!"Who knows," I - said to myself, "but what I can draw this prize? I Ill try it, anyhow, win or lose. One thing is morally certain, I cannot be much worse off than I am now. I 11 open my batteries immediately on her appearance." i  Some 'such thought must have entered the head of Mr. Octavius Berkely, for he immediately slackened in his attentions to Miss Spriggs- indeed, for the balance of the evening the lovely E       ,  '   40Q     CVE LOVE' ADVJYNTi'UIES specimen of female excellence near him could with difficulty obtain an answer to her various questions. I saw that I should have a rival, but not a doubt of eventual success entered my mind. The question now was, how long a time should I have to -operate in? My bill would not in all probability be presented by Mr. Float until the expiration of a couple of weeks, and it might so happen that by the persuasive powers of my tongue I could extend the time of payment to a month. If then I did not produce the funds, I should be under the disagreeable necessity of depositing my person in some other hospitable establishment. Mr. Float was not one of those who require pay in advance-he gave his customers a couple of weeks-at the end of that period he laid his bill beneath their optics. If they were unable or declined to settle, he did 'nt get mad and curse and kick them out of doors, by any means-all he considered it incumbent upon him to do he did -he handed them over to an officer, who kindly and voluntarily undertook to see them comfortably situated in a two story brick building convenient to his boarding house, called in common parlance a jail, where they could ruminatd on the ups and downs, the changes and reverses in life, the only difference between their present and former quar- ter- being that now they were unable to quit the   OF SOLOMON SLJG.      41 accommodations generously provided for them. There is such a thing I have heard-for I never had any experience in that line-as being killed with kindness. Mr. Float was then boarding three of his former patrons in the public edifice I have noticed. I should have a couple of weeks, then, and possibly a month's time in which to besiege Miss Aurelia Hyacintha Float, before her respected parent would desire me to unloose my purse strings and expose the state of my finances.: Much has been done in a little time-and much can be done again. At all events, I was determined not to give up the chase of forty thousand dollars with- out a tremendous struggle. M'y cogitations were interrupted by another re- mark from Mr. Float. "Yes, sir," he said in reply to Mr. Larkey's question if he expected his daughter home shortly, "yes, sir, I expect she will be here to-night or to- morrow morning -by the stage. I wrote to her a week ago that she might come home on a visit." Supper was now announced. The company marched in single file through a long passage, up a staircase and into a room not more than twelve feet square. We seated ourselves, grace was said by our host, and we fell to. About twenty beans swimming in a gallon of water stood in the centre   42      IVE LOVE ADVENTURES of the table. One end of the board was graced by a plate of codfish and Irish potatoes mashed together-on the other end I observed a very diminutive tea-pot, the contents of which I de- clined assisting to diminish, as I saw something resembling a dead spider sticking out of the spout. This littlei circumstance did not materially increase my desire for Mr. Float's supper. Supper dispatched, Mr. Larkey proposed a game of cards; Mr. Float himself occasionally indulged in an innocent rubber of whist, and on this oc- casion he expressed himself not particularly averse to a quiet game, provided it was played " on the square," that was, as I soon discovered, provided the cheating part was exclusively confined to him. He took me for a partner, and as I was. a little acquainted with the mysteries of the game we invariably beat Mr. Berkely and Mr. Larkey. We were just preparing to quit the cards and go to bed, when Mr, Float's factotum ran into the room and astonished us with the information that the stage had turned over and emptied its load of passengers, among whom was Miss Aurelia Iya- cintha, into an extremely deep ditch about two ;miles from the village. The news of the disaster had been brought by the driver, who had taken one of the stage horses and galloped on for assistance. In a few minutes the whole of our party were in   OF SQLOMON SLUG.      43 motion, Miss Spriggs with us also, she vowing that she would not stay behind when a female was in distress. The night was tremendously dark, and the rain poured down in streams, but how could I hesitate when forty thousand dollars were lying in a ditch only two miles off? so I pitched on with the rest. Mr. Float had taken the precaution to provide us with a lantern and flask of brandy, two very excellent preservatives on a cold, windy, rainy night. The driver accompanied us also. We had numberless ditches to cross on the way to the scene of disaster, but at every one we came to we fortified ourselves with a glass of brandy, and waded through. * The first effect of the stimulus was produced on the driver, who sat down in a puddle of dirty water and swore that there he would stick till morning. Expostulation was useless, so we insured him the loss of his situation, and stag- gered on. We soon arrived at a junction of three roads, and the question was, upon which of the three was the dismantled stage, Mr. Float being so highly excited, by the brandy and anxiety for his daughter's safety, that he was unable to give us any information. Good fortune favored us, how- ever, for once-we got into the road which appeared to be the one most travelled, and should have gone on right cleverly had not Miss Spriggs declined proceeding any farther unless carried. We man- S  "     FIVE LOVE ADVENTURES aged at last to persuade her on a few yards farthi which brought us in hearing of the shouts from t overturned stage. ' Murder! murder! thieves! robbers! burglar help! help! help!" were the sounds which greet our Iorgans of hearing when we had approach sufficiently close to the unfortunate inmates f them to perceive us. We went to work extricating first, an old chap who had stood so long in a me unnatural position, i. e. on his head, that when - dragged him out by the legs and planted him  his feet, his face had more the appearance of a larq blood beet than anything else. Miss Spriggs s upon the ground, pulled his head in her lap ai vigorously pinched and slapped him until he r gained some portion of his natural appearance, at could comprehend his situation. The next was i old woman, taken from beneath some hundr pounds of baggage. She was revived after co: siderable difficulty. Finally, we hauled out Mi Aurelia Hyacintha Float, uninjured, she havin fallen on one side, and placed her in the arms of h beloved sire, first taking as good a look at her  the light of the lantern would allow, to ascerta whether or not she came up to our expectation She was passable-not very ugly nor very we favored. She had black hair, white, or near. white, eyes, a very large nose, and an extreme 2   Or SOLOMON SLUT.      45 small mouth. She was dressed in the height of the prevailing fashion. I took care of Miss Aurelia on our way home, Mr. Berkely took care of Miss Spriggs, and Mr. Float took care of himself, the brandy bottle and the lantern in the best way he could. It was still raining heavily, but I pulled off my coat and hat, and placed them on the fair shoulders and head of Miss Float, and rolled up her bonnet and shawl in my handkerchief to keep them in some measure from the water. She seemed to be greatly touched by my disinterested attentions, and I have no doubt she smiled sweetly upon me, but that I couldn't swear to, for it was so very dark that I could not see my own hand. The other two passengers ac- companied us on our way back. Miss Float retired to her room immediately on our arrival home, while the remainder of us sat drying our clothes before the fire till morning. I was quite well satisfied with my success so far, for Miss Float could not do less than thank me for my attention. Mr. Berkely looked daggers, pistols and bowie knives at me all night, but I did not think it worth while to notice him. On the appearance of Miss Aurelia Hyacintha the next nrorning after her overset, she looked quite blooming, and desired to take a short walk in the village, as she had been absent from it for a con-   "   L  mE LOVE ADVENl'UES siderable period, and her recollection had becor rather obscured. Mr. Berkely and myself instani volunteered our services to attend her. She repli that she would accept the company of the gent man who had manifested so much solicitude on h account the evening previous. Mr. Berkely va ished, boiling over with wrath, while I march off with Miss Float in triumph. I took- time by the forelock, and commenc operations before we had turned the corner of t street in which the dwelling of her father w situated. I soon discovered that she was a gre novel-reader, in short, she wished to be thoug very romantic. I formed my plan in a moment. "Miss Float," I said, "I have a few words say to you on a subject of the deepest interest one of us. I have a very wealthy relation, wi whom  I have been residing for two or-thr months past, and who declares that he can on become perfectly happy when he sees me unit to some one in the delightful bonds of matrimon I am to be his sole heir, as he has never be( blessed with children. Some six months ag while on a journey to one of our fashionat watering-places for the benefit of his health, nc become very bad, he stopped a few days in t] city in which you were at school. In a letter received from him he stated that he had not l   2 INOFP SOLOMON SLUG.          47 come unmindful of my happiness-that he had been constantly on the look-out for some one to share my journey through life, and that at last he not only believed, but was positively confident, that he had discovered a young lady whose amiability and sweetness of disposition would render me happy could I be so fortunate as to gain the possession of her hand. He said that he had made diligent inquiries respecting her-enclosed a card on which was written her name and resi- g dence-and charged me, as I regarded my salva- tion, to lose no time in the effort to win so high a prize. Without even waiting to order a new suit of clothes from the fashionable tailor whom I patronise, I started to this village to throw myself at the feet of my divine, my adored Aurelia. If your respected father has the slightest doubt of my respectability, I can in a short time produce certificates from the first inhabitants of my native town, which will remove all dubious impressions he may, by possibility, labor under. My name is Slug--one of my ancestors was present at the battle of Yorktown-another assisted at the siege ! of Troy." - Miss Float was not at all stricken with astonish- ment at this avowal-she had read hundreds and thousands of cases during her experience in novel- reading, precisely similar: She knew that it was IEa   48     FIVE LOVE ADVENTURES no uncommon thing' for a man to form some idea being and then search the earth from pole to pole to discover the real-she had read of love at firs sight, often-she was pleased at such an instance of attachment to one I had never before seen- that was all. Her reply was just what I had cal culated on receiving.  "My dear Mr. Slug, would you think that I fel in love with you at first sight? I did, I assure you. And if I had not taken a liking to you how can I help doing so now, when you acquain me with your resolution to find out and offer me your hand without having ever beheld me before Tell me not of your wealthy uncle-all I wish ih to retire to some little cottage in some shady grove there to remain till death divides us, with the chosen of my heart, living on the forty thousand dollars which my dear father will give me. Hers is my hand-take it-I am thine, and only thine dear Slug, forever! I got on well, didn't I All I had now to ac complish, I thought, was to get the matter over ac quickly as possible, before Mr. Float could discove: that I was not exactly what my report of myself and relatives would lead him to believe. But mn intended came to my assistance, and to my infinite delight helped me out of the new difficulty I was thinking how to combat.   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      49 "I do despise," she said, "these marriages that come off in a satisfactory way to everybody. I like a little mystery. Now last year one of the girls at our school ran away with a stranger who had only been in the town two days. She went out to take a walk one morning and fell in with him, and before she came back to breakfast the thing was settled. That night, with the assistance of some of the girls, she crawled over the wall, went to a place where he was waiting for her with a magistrate, and was married. The whole town was in an uproar-the papers for three weeks were filled with accounts of the elopement of Miss Wiggins with a stranger. Such a noise as it made! I thought after that, that if I ever got married I would run away to do it, or stay single." "Admirable! admirable indeed!"I replied. "I enjoy a little mystery myself. To be sure I have some little conscientious misgivings, for I like to do Everything in an honorable way, but how can I hesitate when you request that we should elope? This evening then, dear Aurelia, when, as a cele- brated poet beautifully observes, 'Night spreads her sable mantle over earth,' I will be, in waiting at your back door to receive you, and carry you to a magistrate who will unite us in the holy bonds of matrimony--a bond never to be severed except by 3   50     FE IVE ADVEN'Tu the decease of one. Have you not some prepara- tions to make ere you leave the roof of your beloved parent " "Oh, I'll pack up a few clothes in my trunk, and get Bob, the carriage driver next door, to carry it to the house of the justice. The man who unites folks lives about a mile and a half from here. It will be a pleasant walk to his house." "I omitted to mention previously," I observed, "that in the hurry of departure from my native place, I wholly forgot to furnish myself with any considerable surplus of funds. If you can by any possibility procure a little cash for our requirements on our somewhat long journey, I beg you by all means to do so. The desire to sustain existence is so very natural, that I am confident you cannot wonder at my request." "Certainly not, dear Solomon. I will bring some money with me, as pa always gives me plenty. Oh, I am so glad it is all settled and we are going to run away! What talking there will be about the elopement to-morrow!" "I think," I said, " that we may as well be get- ting back to your father's house, as it is just the hour for breakfast. I may not have another oppor- tunity of acdressing you during the day, but rest assured that at seven o'clock this evening I shall be at the precise place named," .   OF SOLOMON SLOG.      1 Breakfast was on the table when we got to Mr, Float's boarding-house. He looked rather sharply at me and his daughter when we entered the eating room, but our countenances were 'in a most despe- rate state of composure, so he could suspect nothing. I said nothing, but wallowed a few mouthfuls, and hastened to my rodm to congratulate myself on my more than imagined success. About an hour had elapsed when Mr. Larkey entered my room, and informed me, that though he was in the highest degree averse to the prevailing fashion of settling differences by the sword, yet at the vehemently urged request of Mr. Berkely, he had consented to act as his friend in the per- sonal rencontre to which he had the honor of bearing me a challenge. The note of Mr. Berkely ran thus: "Si,--It is evident to my comprehension that you are making every exertion to gain posses- sion of Miss Aurelia Hyacintha Float's affections. Now, Sir, I am not ashamed to announce to you and the world, that I also am a suitor for her hand, though I have as yet not announced that fact to her; and as I think that you have no right to con- trol her feelings before she can have an opportunity of comparing you with others who may desire to obtain her, I pronounce you recreant to every prin- i   52     OfVE- LOE DVEN'l'UtIa ciple of humanity and justice, and do, through the hands of my friend, Mr. Larkey, challenge and de- fy you to mortal combat, at such time (provided it be speedy) and place, and with such weapons, as you may designate. If you know no friend whom you can call upon to act as your second, Mr. Larkey will serve as a witness for both. "Sir, I remain, in the indissoluble bond of hatred, "Very respectfully, "Your obedient servant, "OcTAvIUS BERKELY." "To Solomon SlMug, Es." "Your friend seems rather wrathy this morning, because I had the pleasure of walking out with Miss Float," I said to Mr. Larkey. "Yes, sir," was the reply of the gentleman ad- dressed. "I coincide perfectly with him in the view he takes of your conduct. He wishes to have an equal chance with yourself for the hand of Miss Float. He wants everything done on the square." I returned the following answer to the very belligerent defiance of Mr. Berkely: "Si,--It is the duty as well as the desire of every honorable and free man to chastise insolence in the most signal manner, wherever and when- ever such insolence may be displayed. I have   -OF SOLOMON SLUG.     5, received your note, in which you challenge me to mortal combat, from the hands of Mr. Larkey. How do I know, Sir, that when I consent to com- ply with your demand, I do not consent to meet a penniless vagabohd, an impudent stroller, a rascally fortune-hunter? Where are your proofs of gentility But for the purpose of forever ending you and your claim to the hand of Miss Float, I consent to meet you to-morrow morning at eight o'clock, in the woods at the back of the village. Sir, your existence has nearly come to a close-to-morrow morning I will take pleasure in ridding the world of a villain. I name muskets as the weapons, and the distance shall be ten paces. "With deep contempt, "SOLOMON SLUG. "To Octavius Berkely." Immediately after despatching my answer I went to sleep to dream of Miss Aurelia, forty thousand dollars stowed snugly away in a bank vault, elopements, relentless old parents searching for runaway daughters, marriages, and so on. I went down to dinner when the hour for that meal arrived, not so much to revivify my inward man with the good cheer of Mr. Float, as to see whether any matters I had desired to keep   54     3BFIVE LOVE ADVENTURES secret had leaked out. Mr. Float, it was evident, knew not that anything very particular was going on. Mr. Berkely had undoubtedly applied him- self vigorously to stimulants, and was seen several times duringl dinner shaking his fist in a very ani- mated manner. He was, I imagined, screwing up his courage to the point where it was expected to stick. The host told us that his daugher, having been attacked by a very severe headache, was un- able to make her appearance. Mr. Larkey sat still and ate, but said nothing. Night came at last. Before seven o'clock I was standing near Mr. Float's back door waiting for my intended. It was very dark. A few minutes after the hour appointed I heard the door gently opened and my name called.  "Solomon! dear Solomon!"I stepped up to the door. Miss Float was standing in it, rigged out in her best, with a small bundle in her hand. "Here I am, dearest Aurelia," I said. "My heart leaps for joy at your promptness on this anxious occasion. Can I suffer sufficiently to re- pay this devotion on the part of her without whom life, the world, and all it contains would be utterly valueless? Ah!" "We must hurry," she replied, as she took my arm, "for it is nearly supper time, and pa will go up to my room to see how I do if I am not at the   OF SOLOMON SLUG.     ;t table. I kept from going down to dinner by telling him that I had a dreadful headache." "I hope you did not forget to bring a little money along, for as I told you before, I have not  "     . "There! As true as I'm alive, I forgot every thing about it. But never mind, we can stay al the house of the magistrate all night. We can send a letter, asking forgiveness and all that, to pa in the morning, and I'll warrant everything comes straight before twelve o'clock." I trusted to Providence and the benevolence of Mr. Float's disposition, and marched on. We could not have got quite a mile from the village when I heard a sound as of many men engaged in yelling with great vigor. I looked behind in the direction of the village, and saw a tremendous ^ light smoke and flame ascending to the sky. I immediately called the attention of Miss Float to' it. "Why, bless me, Solomon," she said, in some excitement, " that fire must be very near pa's!" We halted instanter. The flame rose higher and still higher. We could see very well the ground on which we were standing. I desired Aurelia to sit down on a stone by the side of the road and wait until I ran back to the village and ascertained to whom the burning property be-   56     FIVE LOVE ADVENTURES longed. She consented, and I hastened back to the scene of disaster as fast as my legs coulh carry me. I soon got near enough to the fire to see that i was Mr. Float's own boarding-house that wa burning. Mr. Float himself was standing in  crowd near the fast-going building, cursing shaking his head and arms, and raving like t madman. "Oh, Mr. Slug, good Mr. Slug," he said, af soon as he saw me, "save my house. Oh, curses on that villain! I wish he had been burnt up in it Nearly every dollar I had in the world was in that house an hour ago-now where is it! Oh Lord Oh Lord! The money was all in bank bills in i wooden box under the bed in my room. Now all 've got is about five hundred dollars and a little old house. It was so sudden, too! Oh Loid! oh oh! oh!" I- learned from the bystanders that Mr. Octavius Berkely had taken the candle from the supper table and gone up to bed just before the house took fire. Being very drunk, he had pitched upon the bed, candle and all. The curtains im- mediately caught, and in a few moments the entire building was enveloped in flames. Mr. Larkey, who had followed him up to see to his safety, was just in time to pull him down stairs   OF ISOLOMON SLUTG t     \ and out at the front door by the heels, thus pre- venting him from sharing the fate of the dwell. ing. Mr. Float was absent on some businese at the time, or his money would, doubtless, have been preserved, for no one else knew where it was placed. Mr. Larkey had seen Miss Float gc out at the back door some time before the acci- dent, as Mr. Float supposed, to visit a neighboring girl who was sick. The forty thousand dollars of Mr. Float had, by this unfortunate occurrence, dwindled down to not more than five hundred, and a little old house. Under such circumstances as these I could not for a moment entertain the idea of converting Miss Aurelia Hyacintha Float into Mrs. Solomon Slug. I therefore made the best of my way from the village, and in a totally different direction from that in which I had left Miss Aurelia Hyacintha sitting waiting on the rock. On arriving at the next town, I wrote and directed the following letter to Aurelia: "Miss FLOAT-YOU must be well aware that after the unfortunate reverse your father met with the other night, I cannot reconcile to my con- science the thought of a marriage with you. Your father is now quite aged, he has fallen from the high position in point of wealth he formerly held   5- .8    Ho LOVE ADVENTURES -he is doubtless plunged in wo. How   then, could I, as an honorable and feeling man, take his only and well-beloved child from him at a time when the sight of her would be an inexpressible comfort? . Could I be so base as to deprive him of all he has now to delight in? No, no, never! Though my heart-strings are nearly rended at being compelled tq part from you, I will still force myself to say to you calmly, ' Console him! com- fort him in this his time of trial! I shall hence- forth wander through the cheerless world unloving and unloved-no voice will welcome me home, no eyes will gladden me with their brightness. With a sorrowful soul Ii give you again that liberty which you resigned to me, and fervently pray that you may never feel the pangs I now experience. Alas! how horrible is the reflection that we must lose all that we have ever loved! It banishes the smile from the countenance, and draws the bitter tear from the eye! TUnhappy fate! to mourn for- ever the departure of one's earliest, holiest, deep- est affections! To gaze around upon the wide waste, and cry with the prophet of old, ' All is barren!' Oh, dear Aurelia, time can never, never, never, heal this lacerated heart! Farewell! again and again, farewell! "SOLOMON SLUG." "Miss Aureica Hyacintha Float."   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      59 Mr. Berkely married Miss Spriggs three days after the fire. Miss Aurelia Hyacintha some two months after went to the altar with the former clerk of Mr. Float. I saw their marriage in a paper. I never heard of any of them afterwards. / Hei., ' '   60     FIVE LOVE ADVEN'TuE CHAPTER IV. MSS ARAMNTA HiGGS. I now began to think that the Fates were against me. To be sure, I could get married, but ther was something more to be obtained than the hand of my spouse-something with which bankers and millionaires are intimately acquainted, but whici it seemed I was destined to seek for in vain. Pov erty will do very well to talk about while one is sitting before a blazing fire, on a stormy winter night, with the creature comforts at his elbow-bu experience of that same poverty is not so extremely comfortable as to leave one nothing else to wish for To go on with my tale. I think it was about a month after my escap( from the village of Rome, and the charms of Miss Aurelia Hyacintha Float, that I entered the con siderable city of N---. That I was near the very bottom of the wheel of fortune, no one who behelc me could doubt-nothing but a strenuous effort of the blind goddess in my favor could place me ot top. My education was pretty fair, and to that ] trusted for a living, until I could again begin the matrimonial war.       . " ^-, ^ ,   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      61 Well, now began the search for a situation. I wrote notices to the effect that a young gentleman of fashionable deportment and insinuating man- ners would, for a stipulated sum, take pleasure in adding to the accomplishments of young ladies in high life, and got them conspicuously inserted in the leading journals, but as I never received any answers, I soon relinquished this plan. Cunning old fathers were unanimously opposed to intro- ducing a young gentleman of "insinuating man- ners" to their fair daughters; they, doubtless, thought it their duty to discountenance elopements and marriages celebrated without their consent, express; or implied. After considerable trouble, and no slight wear of shoe-leather, I obtained a situation as book- keeper in the wholesale establishment of Mr. Joshua Higgs. Mr. Joshua Higgs was a gentleman of fortune--a nmrchant of high standing, and an alderman of the good city of N  . No one would have taken him for an alderman, though, for he was over six feet in length, and not much thicker, when you took a look at him sideways, than a very thin sheet of pasteboard. I did not know, when I consented to devote my talents to his ser- vice, whether he had any family or not-he offered a good salary, and I was compelled, by my desire to enjoy life a little longer, to accept the offer with-   62     FIVE LOVE ADVENTURES out asking questions which he might have con- sidered impertinent. I went to work at the business of book-keeping, and gave my employer the highest satisfaction. I was soon the best of friends with his salesmen and clerks, and with Alderman Higgs himself, although,when I first entered his establishment, one or two of his salesmen who had long calculated confidently on promotion to the salary and office of book-keeper, gave me some hard looks openly, and, no doubt, a few hard curses privately. The confidence of Mr. Higgs in my talents daily in- creased; in short, it was hinted by my friends, that in time, I might be taken into partnership. Alas! that cursed demon-that infernal idea-that in- tense desire to grasp all at once by a lucky mar- riage, was too firmly rooted in my brain to be speedily torn out! Mr. Higgs entered the office one morning some time before his usual hour for appearing, in a state of some excitement. At first Ithought that he had been drinking-then that he had experienced a loss on his shipments of merchandise. My curiosity was soon satisfied by his explaining to me that a speech was expected of him in the Board of Alder- men that day, on a question of no inconsiderable importance to the city. The mighty question was, should the Board appropriate a portion of the city   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      63 funds to the entertainment of a noted politician who was soon expected to make his appearance? The people were divided-those opposed politically to the statesman were loudly declaiming against such a useless expenditure of the public money-- those who were his friends would have spent their last dollar for his reception. Mr. Higgs, who was one of the great man's supporters, was put forth by his party as the mover of the resolution to appro- priate, and of course it would be necessary for him to speak in its favor, especially as the Board were tied in politics. Never having had the honor of making a speech in his life, he did not exactly know how to set about making one, and in his great strait he had resolved on applying to me. I had never made a speech in my life either, but I had read the speeches of our most eminent states- men, and I knew pretty well the variations of the words patriotism, eloquence, long service to the country, and so on. I planted the heads of a short discourse in Mr. Higgs' noddle, and repeated the expressions he ought to use in order to carry his point, until he had got them tolerably perfect in his memory. He departed in great glee, after thanking me about twenty times, and returned after the debate to the office, instead of going home, to inform me that his speech of half an hour had elicited uproarious applause even from some of his   "     IIVB?LOVw -ADENTURES opponents, and had carried his resolution through triumphantly. He concluded by saying that my salary should from that daybe increased, and that on the following morning he would drive by and take me out to dine with his family at his place in the country. It would not be very interesting to recount the various thoughts that filled my breast on receiving this invitation. I formed a great many plans, some of them barely possible and others utterly impos- sible of execution. The invitation to dinner might be the prelude to a copartnership or a marriage. Anyhow, Mr. Higgs had a family and I was to pay them a visit. I overhauled my toggery on the next morning after breakfast, and selected those articles of ap- parel which I thought best calculated for making -an impression-that is, I took out my best suit and put it on. I informed my landlady, in answer to her question why I did not go to the office, that I was to dine by special request at Mr. Higgs' country seat. She and her two marriageable daughters wished me every description of good luck, and I departed. By the way, I had for two or three weeks suspected that it was the intention of my good hostess to force upon me one of her very ugly daughters, as she soon perceived that I was a young man with a respectable chance for   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      . 65 success in life before him; but as the property of all three) was barely sufficient to insure an exist- ence, I was unalterably resolved to discourage their friendly attempts, and continue in a state of single unhappiness unless I could choose my part- ner from a more wealthy set than then flourished in the domicile of Mrs. Hawkins, Boarding House Keeper, 10 Lofty Lane, In a few minutes after my arrival at the office, Mr. Higgs drove up. "Jump in, Slug, jump in; it is ten o'clock, and Mrs. Higgs will be, impatient if we keep dinner waiting. We always dine at one precisely, and it is fifteen miles there. " I got in, and we dashed off in fine style. After a couple of hours riding along a very pretty road, we drew in sight of Mr. Higgs' country house. It was a splendid mansion, hidden nearly from view by long lines of oaks and elms. Walks ran from the house far out in the woods- on one side of them was an orchard filled with a large assortment of fruit trees, whose branches hung to the ground with the weight of their lusci- ous burden--on the other side were the stables and other outhouses. I knew before this that Mr. Higgs was very rich, but this sight struck me with won- der. "Ah!" sighed I to myself, '" if my old em- ployer only had a sole daughter to inherit this estate, and if I should marry her, I think I \   "     }IVE LOVE ADVENTURES should be in danger of taking leave of my senses altogether. But I shall soon see the inhabitants, so wait a little!"We got out and made for the door. As we were stepping in, a young lady, who, as I conjectured, from an agonising glance at her countenance, was about twenty, ran out and fell to work kissing Mr.. Higgs with marvellous ala- crity. She had almost devoured his old wrinkled, face before she beheld me. "'This gentleman," said [Mr. Higgs, as soon as he could get a chance to speak, " is Mr. Solomon Slug. My daughter Araminta, Mr. Slug." I made a considerable tall bow that almost dis- located my neck, and we walked in. Dinner was ready, so after an introduction to Mrs. Higgs, a short, squatty, old woman, who appeared to be somewhat oppressed by the extreme heat, we marched into the dining-room and took our places. During dinner I let slip no opportunity of scru- tinising the features of Miss Araminta. To say she was not handsome would be a weak expres- sion; she was neither beautiful, nor handsome, nor pretty, nor good looking, nor homely. No, she was none of these, but she was' three times as ug1l as a hyena. Her hair was white, that most hor rible of all colors. That might be dyed. Hei nose was as long as my finger, and as sharp as a pegging awl; besides, the bridge of it looked as if   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      67 it had been broken short in two in some juvenile fall .upon, her face. That was beyond all hope of remedy. Her mouth was drawn in at the middle and puffed out at the sides; it actually resembled no description of mouth that had. ever been present- ed to my optics. I shall go no further in description, 'for no pen could adequately describe the person of Miss Araminta Higgs. One- would suppose that I rushed from the house, stricken with horror, but I didn't, for the very simple reason that I saw in her the very essence of human perfection. I was glad she was not beautiful-my chance for success was greater. In my opinion there is no beauty equal to that of the figures on a gold coin. It was that kind of beauty which I saw reflected in the countenance of Miss Araminta Higgs. Standing alone in the world, I think she would not have particularly struck my fancy-in fact, I should have considered a marriage with her as one of the most inhuman punishments that c6uld possibly have been devised; but standing as she did upona mighty pedestal of dollars and bank-bills, the case was altogether different. If there was no music in her voice and no poetry in her motion, there was' incontestably music of the most ravishing kind in the dollar's ring, and good common sense in the various notes and deeds securely enclosed in her father's strong box.   68     OiiVE LOVE ADVENTURES During dinner but little was said by any of the family. I did my best to play the agreeable, and flattered myself that I was tolerably successful. Araminta was extremely gracious, and evidently disposed to regard me with a favorable eye. Mr. Higgs was busily employed in contriving new plans for success in his business and eating, and old Mrs. Higgs was too far up the hill of life to take much notice of anything that was said or done. "Come, Slug, we'll all take a walk out doors," Mr. Higgs observed when the operation of eating had been satisfactorily performed. "I only come here once a week, and have but little time to spend then. We must be on our way back to town by five. You take 'Minta and I 'll take Mrs. Higgs. Come on." This arrangement suited my wishes exactly. I gave my arm to Miss Araminta, or, as she was familiarly called by her father, 'Minta, and we strutted on through the long walks, enjoying our- selves exceedingly. Mr. and Mrs. Higgs followed on behind, but as they were old, sedate people, we were soon a considerable distance ahead. For the first five minutes or so the conversation was rather embarrassed, being merely questions answered by monosyllables. I soon found out what I desired to know, after our mutual confusion began to wear   O0W SOLOMON SLUG.      69 off, viz.-: the proper method requisite for me to pursue to win the affections of Araminta. She was as close-fisted as any miser of the masculine- species-she never uttered a syllable concerning anything but the state of the money market, or the chances of a rise in two articles of import in which her father was deeply interested, silks and tea. It seemed as if she had steeled her heart to the voice of love, after a period of calm considera- tion, and knowing too that her countenance was illy calculated to produce a very favorable impres- sion upon the heart of any disinterested bachelor, and that she had come to the determination to devote the remainder of her days to increasing her worldly possessions. This discovery did not, how- ever, discourage me; I had a slight recollection of having read in my youthful days that " continual dropping wears away the stone," or something of that sort, sh I only resolved to try the harder. Besides, if anything, I thought I 'rather had reason to borrow encouragement from the circumstance, for it was not probable that she had succeeded in arresting the attention of any of my sex as yet, and therefore she was averse to entering upon a subject which she supposed could not concern her. I took my ground, and for the whole walk, which lasted above an hour, did not say one word on any subject but the one in which she was most inte-   70     FIVE LOVEo ADVENTuIJ rested, though my looks failed not at every step to tell her that she alone was the subject of my thoughts. I pressed her. hand tenderly as I took my leave, and promised in an undertone to pay another visit the moment business permitted. When I got back to the city, Mr. Higgs released me from all further attendance at the office that day, and I made the best of my way to my land- lady's. Her two daughters wore very smiling countenances to mne the whole evening, but I was bent on the conquest of Miss Araminta Higgs, so I was incapable of appreciating their smirks and winks at their proper value. My first business, when I got to my room, was to indite a letter to my beloved. It is not necessary to relate all I said in it. I made a thousand apologies for presuming to address her with the language of love-I con- jured her by all that was sacred not to drive her adorer to despair, and so on. Any one who has ever been placed in my situation can imagine the contents of my epistle without difficulty. I signed it "Solomon,' sealed and directed it to Miss Ara- minta Higgs, and put it into the post-office. My head ached violently when I returned, which ach- ing I attributed to the exertion attendant on the composition of the many phrases of endearment in my letter    OF SOLOMON SLUG.      71 I awoke the next evening, suffering from a raging fever. The extreme heat of the weather- and the excitement of the previous day had combined to produce this effect. Mrs. Hawlkns, who was stand- ing by my bed with a doctor, informed me that upon learning that I had not made my appearance up to twelve o'clock, she had proceeded to my room and knocked, but without receiving any reply. Thinking that a stroke of apoplexy might-have sent me the way of all flesh before I had found time to inform her that I was about to depart from the en- joyment of sublunary things, she had had the door, opened, and found me in a fever and my head wan- dering. The doctor added that I had only a slight attack, and would be up in a day or two, and left me. Mrs. Hawkins remained behind. I saw that there was something on her mind' which she de- sired to get rid of, and imagining that she was fear- ful of losing the week's board if I kicked the bucket, I hastened to dissipate her fears by assuring her that she was perfectly safe on that score. "Oh, Mr. Slug," she said, interrupting my ob- servations, "don't mention it. I know a gentleman like you always thinks of these things, but I protest nothing was further from my thoughts. I was only going to say--to say-that-that-that-as you kept declaring your attachment till death for Axa- minta, you might think that I would not be agree- Mi    72    MVFE LOVE ADVENTU'MU able to the match, but I'll ease your mind on that point, Mr. Slug, for I don't know a young man I  would rather have for a son-in-law than you, among all my acquaintance." "And I kept declaring my love for Araminta, did I?" "Yes, sir, that you did. Oh you used such a heap of fine language, you can't think. My daugh- ter Araminta is a good girl, though I say it myself. If you want to get married as soon as you get up, I have no objection, not the least in the world." "It cannot be, Mrs. Hawkins," I exclaimed, rather flustered at the old lady's avowal of her in- tention to unite me with one of her very poor daughters. "What can't be, Mr. Slug?" "The marriage you propose." "And pray, why not, sir? My daughter Ara- minta is a good girl, as I said just now, and " "Hush, Mrs. Hawkiris!" said I, interrupting her, "don't speak so loud. Listen!"Mrs. Hawkiis bent down her head until it rested on the back of the chair by which she was standing. "Don't say a word above your breath for the world. I am a Sandingabob!" "A what, sir?-" she gasped. "A Sandingabob.  You must know that the Sandingabobs are a society formed for the express   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      7 purpose of discouraging marriage by every means in their power. Each member is sworn by a horri- ble oath never to marry, or voluntarily attend a marriage, on penalty of death. If I were to get married, you would see me, when your front door was opened some pleasant morning, lying on the steps with my head severed from my body. Oh, it is awful to think of, isn't it?" Mrs. Hawkins was so dreadfully affected by this announcement that she could not summon a word in reply to myquestion for some five minutes. She managed, however, at last to get out the word "dreadful!" and started down stairs, crying and saying, "poor soul!" with the most intense ear- nestuess. Feeling pretty well the next morning, I got up. I went to the post-office and there found a letter. It was an answer from Araminta Higgs to my letter! I was stricken dumb with surprise to think that all my advances had been so happily met, and so suddenly too, for I had calculated on a long and arduous courtship. I was now convinced that I had been totally mistaken in my surmises respect- ing Miss Higgs-the warm, loving reply which I held tightly grasped in my hand, could not have been written by one insensible to the power of the little blind god-there was not a single word in the whole three pages which any imagination could 4    74     FIVE LOVE ADVENTURES have construed into an inquiry whether tea or mus- lin had advanced in the market, nor were the values of different stocks once mentioned. Here was love at first sight for your romancers! Like Cesar, or some other one of those ancient mur- derers and robbers, I, too, could cry, "I came, I saw, I conquered!" with perfect regard for truth. It was rather singular, though, I thought, that the direction on Miss Araminta's reply was not in full -the direction was "'Solomon, Mr. Higgs', No. 20 Walter Street." She had probably forgotten the surname, or perhaps she desired to show me how ardent was her love. I was disappointed- agreeably, happily, gloriously disappointed-and I journeyed to my enrployer's office through crowds of wealthy merchants, feeling considerably taller than the tallest among them. There wasn't one mistake made in Mr. Iiggs' books that day-no, not one, but though there wasn't one, there were, I expect, a few over one hundred. If Mr. Higgs had taken it into his head to enter upon an examination of the aforesaid books, I might have reckoned upon dismissal from his wholesale establishment with the utmost cer- tainty. Mr. Higgs was a very good man, in his way. He was an honorable man in his dealings with the world, but he was possessed of that beset- ting sin, Pride, and I was well aware that I could   Of SOLOMON SLUG.       s have requested his black porter Sam to maiufac- ture for my especial benefit the long sought philo- sopher's stone 'with just as much chance of obtain-  ing my desire, as there would be of getting his con- sent to my marriage with his daughter, unless I could produce a sum of not less than fifty thousand dollars, of which sum then and there I had not the beginning. He would, doubtless, invite me many more times to dine with him at his country place and possibly once in a great while at his town house when the family moved in-he would urge my zeal for his prosperity with obliging bows and condescending smiles daily, and I should always find a cheque for my salary when the clock had stricken the last hour of the month, but if he once entertained the slightest suspicion that I was in any way manceuvring to obtain his daughter, why, he would still carry on business at the old stand, and I could carry myself off. I didn't want to elope any more with anybody if I could help it-I had come off so badly in my former attempts, that I was rather disgusted with that mode of obtaining a wife-I desired now to, have a regular out and out wedding, with plenty of groomsmen and brides- maids, delighted parents and relatives, and all the other concomitants of the affair when it is done as it should be. But all this was entirely out of the question-I had to run away with Miss Aramrinta   'y      v. Ov LOVE ADVEN1'U Higgs if I got her at all, and on running away I was resolved, for I was determined to have her. So I settled it all in my mind before I left the office that day. For two or three weeks I kept up a continual correspondence with my adored ugly Miss Higgs on the one subject. All my letters were signed ' Solomon," and all her replies were directed to "Solomon."' I had not as yet more than very slightly hinted at an elopement, when I received a letter from her, in which she stated that she was willing to run away, and would be ready at the time named. In the last letter I had written I had said it was probable I should visit her on the following Sunday, then four days distant. "Ah!  thought I, " she is more anxious than I had hoped. Oh, Fortune! I thank thee for this manifestation of thy regard-thou art not quite so blind as Poetry and Sculpture have represented thee-- thou knowest thy friends, and if, hereafter, kind Fortune, I can do anything for thee, just men- tion it and thou wilt find me not ungrateful!" Miss Higgs, then, had understood me to 'mean, when I said that I would visit her on the next Sunday evening, that I should come to carry her off. In a most delicious state of excitement was my answer written. I told her that twelve o'clock on the night of Sunday, in the year of grace 18-,   oF SOLOMON SLLUG.      t would find me waiting with a carriage near her dwelling to receive her. This- was the last of our written correspondence. -Three days-three days of happy anticipation, passed. Mrs. Hawkins gazed hopefully on my radiant countenance, no doubt thinking-good old soul!-that I had come to the conclusion to re- nounce the terrible association of the Sandin- gabobs, and all future share in their horrible and sinful combinations against the marriage ordi- nance, and take unto myself a spouse, which spouse, of course, was to be no less a personage than Miss Araminta Hawkins, whose stock of worldly goods comprised a couple or so of dresses and a nice pair of paste ear-rings. I regretted greatly that I could not gratify her, but my ideas were somewhat singular-I could put up very well with an ugly-looking wife and two or three hun- dred thousand dollars, but could n't think of the most beautiful woman in the world with nothing but love for her portion. It was Saturday evening. I had bidden farewell to Mr. Higgs' office' without the slightest feeling of sorrow at parting-got my cheque cashed and my month's salary in my pocket, and gone to my boarding-house to make arrangements for my de parture on the following morning. In  a- few minutes after I reached my room a waiter came in   78     m'FIVE LOVE ADVENTURES and said there was a gentleman below who desired to see me. He handed the card, upon which I read "Solomon Smiffins." I told him to ask Mr. Smiffins up, and sat down to await that gentle- man's arrival. Mr. Solomon Smiffins was Mr. Higgs' principal salesman. He was a well-dressed man of nearly thirty years, a good-looking fellow enough, and as, clever as all out doors. I had never had very much communication with him at Mr. Higgs', for my business was in- the office, while his was exclu- sively in the warehouse. However, we had met occasionally at the different public places of amuse- ment, and we had become very well disposed towards each other. What his lbsiness was with me now, though, I could not possibly conjecture, for he had never called upon me at Mrs. Hawkins' before. "How d'ye do, Slug, my dear fellow?" he en- quired as he appeared at the door. "I need not ask that, though, for I see you are looking hearty as a buck: Come, congratulate me! ' "Well, so I will, Smiffins," I replied, "if you. will tell me your good fortune." "Ho! ho! what, can't you see? Don't you perceive in my countenance that look vulgarly called sheepish? Eh?" "So I do. Why, you are going to be married.   OF SOLOMON, SLUG.     79 Come, now, don't deny it, man alive." My head was lirning on marriage just about that time. "The man is a wizard! How did he know it! To speak seriously, you know, ho! ho! in answer to the question, Am I about to get married or am I not? I say, emphatically, I am! 'Think of that, Master -Brooke!' So you see I ve come to see if you cannot help me a little. The relations of my intended would not look at me if I named myself to them as a candidate for her hand, for they are twenty degrees prouder than Lucifer, and are look- ing out for what they call an eligible match, but the person who is the most concerned, the young lady herself, will not only look at me, but she will have me too! She 's got no money, but she has got rich relatives; now, I have got no money to speak of, and I could not swear that the property of all my relations put together whiuld be sufficient to bury them in a decent manner. She is staying at the re- sidence of an old chap a few miles from town--on a visit to his daughter, I believe, or something of that sort; anyhow, she and the old chap's daughter are cousins, and that is all I know about that. Well, we are going to run away together to-morrow night, and I want you to come along and assist us off. You can get a carriage, you know, and take me up at my board- ing-house, and manage the affair until we get out   80     FIVE LOVE ADVENTURES of town. Of course I can count on you, Slug, eh, my good fellow?" Before I could explain to Mr. Solomon Smiffins why it was impossible for me to serve him in the way he had contemplated, he had gone through his story. I would have gone through fire to have assisted him in his enterprise, but I could not dis- appoint Miss Araminta Higgs, who, at the very time when Mr. Smimffns would be running away with Mhi bride, would be waiting for me to perform the same operation with her, my bride. I explained to him, then, that business of the utmost importance, which would not permit me to absent myself from town on any pretence whatever, would prevent me from aiding him, but I wished him all the success in the world, with which wish he left well satisfied to seek some other friend, and secure his services for the great occasion. I packed up the few garments I had in a bundle, and went to sleep for the last time in the boarding- house of Mrs. Hawkins, Lofty Lane. It seemed as if Sunday evening was never des- tined to appear again. The hours might not have been lengthened in reality, but to my eagerly anti- cipating imagination, they plodded oh their weary way with a slowness altogether unparalleled. I was in a fever of expectation-I perceived but one ob- ject in the future, and that one object was the form   OO SOLOM3OsT SLUG.     81 of Miss Araminta Higgs. I did not join the com- pany of boarders at Mrs. Hawkins' table, for what business had I with food when my whole soul was on fire with love? Eating, then, would have been the commission of a heinous crime, even if I had felt disposed to crowd into my inner man the grosser comforts of the shambles and the poultry yard. Sunday evening did come, though. Five o'clock P. M. found me negotiating with the keeper of a livery stable for a carriage, a pair of fleet horses, and a driver. These indispensable assistants to a runaway pair were readily obtained for an extrava- gant consideration, and my operations drew-nearer to a termination. By six o'clock I was out of the city and some distance on the fifteen mile road to Mr. Higgs' country place. We travelled slowly, as there was plenty of time, for I did not wish to get to Mr. Higgs' much before twelve o'clock. I endeavored to enter into conver- sation with the driver of the carriage, but I soon discovered that he was nearly stone deaf, his an- kswers to my questions being at the moderate rate of one to fifteen, or thereabouts. I was, therefore, compelled to content myself with silence and thoughts of Aramnita. The night was dark--frightfully so. I could not see the windows of the carriage. To crown all, it 4*    82     rITV LbrE BADVEI'TUiS began to rain when we had reached within a couple of miles of Mr. Eiggs'. This was just what I most desired-though I was continually alarmed for the safety of my neck, as the horses seemed particularly desirous of dragging the vehicle over gullies and stones. I was after Araminta-not a dislocation. All things come to an end at last, and so did my ride. I contrived to make the coachman under- stand that I wanted him to wait where he then was -some dozen yards from the front gate. Lighting a small lantern, I clambered over the fence, and after undoing the fastenings of the gate, made my way towards the front door. I took a seat on the steps of the house, in which no sign of a light was visible, and watched for the apparition of Miss Araminta. After waiting half an hour, I began to think that my beloved had facetiously invited me to make a'fool of myself, and I was cogitating on the expediency of slinging a stone through every blind in the house and then taking the back track, when I heard a cry of "murder!" from the place where I had left the coachman and horses. I pad- dled through the mud towards the gate with all speed, and there found the driver amusing himself by pounding some unlucky fellow who had fallen into his hands. I pulled him away from his victim, who immediately on his release, started from the scene of his disaster in a rapid trot. I thought a   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      83 few moments after that I heard the sound of retiring wheels. I was soon back to my old position in front of the house. This time I had not long to wait. The door slowly opened, and a walking bundle emerged -of course Araminta. I grasped her hand with- out saying a word, and led her along in the best way I could in the total darkness, for my light was about as useful in showing the direction as a pardon would be in preserving the life of a man already hanged. We did make out to get to the carriage at last, and waking up the coachman, who, considerate for his health, had crawled into the carriage and was enjoying a comfortable snooze, were soon out of the rain and going as rapidly as two well-conditioned horses could drag us.  " ear Araminta!"I began, when I thought it was time to open the conversation. "Dear Solomon!" replied the bundle. Then quickly followed a prolonged smack. The voice didn't sound much like the one belong- ing to the daughter of my employer, but I attri- buted its harshness to a cold. "Dear Araminta!"I again exclaimed. "Dear Smiffins!" replied the bundle. ( Eh? what?"I shouted, feeling very much like going crazy. "Ain't your name Araminta- "   84     FIVE LOVE ADVENTUJES "Yes, dear Solomon." "Araminta Higgs " "Yes, dear." "Old Joshua Higgs' daughter a " "No! I'm her cousin!" "Thunder! Whooooooo "I gave a yell that might have been divided among a dozen men and then been a very respectable scream for each of them. The whole truth flashed on my mind in an instant. The bundle before me was the intended of Mr. Solomon Smiffins. We had both been cor- responding with her-he had got some of her let- ters and I the balance. We had both by a singu- lar accident appointed the same time for the elope- ment. Mr. Smiffins, then, was the gentleman who had been engaged in the interesting game of fisti- cuffs with my driver, and had come very near being totally demolished on that important occa- sion. I would have fainted, but I hadn't time! "Well," said I, "we have made a very slight mistake, Miss Higgs." "WhatY dear Solomon, is the matter 2 " "Oh, nothing," I replied with as much of calm- ness as I could muster, "only you are not old Higgs' daughter and I am not Solomon Smiffins!" "Who are you then "She began to tune up pretty loudly now! "My name is Solomon Slug. I left Mr. Smiffins ".   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      S&' in the road some distance behind, fighting with another gentleman! He's about a gone case, by this time, I guess!"The last I saw of Smifins he was running away as fast as his legs could carry him! "Oh! Ah-h-h-h-h!"This time we both squeal- ed. I thought it was time to get back. "Hello! Driver! Coachman! D-r-i-v-e-r!"I shouted. The cursed carriage kept rattling on. "Man! Devil! or whoever you are that's driv- ing, stop! stop! stop!"The driver heard us yell, but thought we were urging him on. He whipped up, and we fairly flew! "Stop! I've escaped from the penitentiary, and there are three thousand dollars offered to whoever will carry me back! Stop! Another cut at the horses. "I'm the man that murdered the old woman and fourteen children last week in Smith- ville!" Crack! crack! crack! "I broke open the Humbug Bank!"Whip! whip! whip! I took off my boot and dakhed it through the front window of the carriage upon the driver's back. He could feel if he couldn't hear. In a few minutes he stopped the horses and got down to sec what was the matter. After a pretty severe ex- ercise of my lungs, I made him comprehend that a mistake had been made, and that he must drive back. The heads of the horses were speedily   86     FIVE LOVE ADVENTURES turned, and a quarter of an hour found us once more in front of Mr. Higgs' dwelling. I handed the cousin out with the utmost carefulness, opened the gate and let her in, and saw her splash throthrough the md to the house with intense satisfac- tion. As for myself, the jig was up. I got back to the city in time for the morning cars, which I took to try my fortune in another place.   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      87 CHAPTER V. MSS JINKS. I WAS thirty years old. Ten years had I zeal- ously pursued the object of my ambition-four times had I been grievously disappointed. Now when a man in my situation gets to be thirty years old he may well despair of ever attaining the accomplishment of his desires-he may well rail at Fortuhe, for my experience has shown conclusively that his chance is bad. It is true, he may succeed, but, if he does he accomplishes considerably more than could reasonably be expected. Mark, I say a man in my situation, for every day shows us that it is no uncommon thing for one thirty years old to hitch in the matrimonial yoke. But I was getting disgusted with the world and pretty much all it contained-I had followed the chase so long unsuc cessfully that I began to lose a large portion of that energy with which I first set out I had be- gun to feel bad; I know I looked so. Once more I resolved to risk my chance in the lottery from which heretofore I had drawn nothing but blanks. One thing was just as certain as truth itself-it was morally impossible for me to lose   88s    dFVE LOVE ADVMStTU-aS anything, for as I had nothing when Istarted, if I did get anything it was total gain. If I failed the next time I determined to withdraw my name from the list of candidates, and let the civilised world go to the devil as fast as it pleased, for no hand of mine would be put forth to preserve it. It is won- derful how very philosophical repeated disappoint- ment makes a-man! When the cars arrived at their destination I got out and walked into the town. I did not know where Hwas-nor did I care. Why should I? hadn't I got any place to go to, provided I could get there ] What mattered it to me whether I was in Dan or Beersheba? when I slapped myself I knew that I was yet alive, and that was the fact most important for me to know. I had no particu- lar predilection for any place-my mind was centred upon the accomplishment of one object, and the name of the town was something which did not enter into my consideration at all. I was somewhere, and that was sufficient. I wandered along up the principal street, looking to the right and left, though not, like the celebrat- ed lion, of whom perhaps some of us in our days of youthful innocence may have heard, for the purpose of seeing whom I might devour. As I passed a corner I saw printed in letters certainly not less than two feet long, upon an immense square   OF SOLOMON SLUG.      89 of yellow paper stuck on a board, the words, "Theatre.--'Tis Night!--Romeo and Juliet!-- Laughable Afterpiece!-Three Comic Songs and a Darnce!"I felt in my pocket and discovered that I had barely enough small change (as for big change, that was entirely out of the question!) to pay the price of admittance. I concluded on going, as it looked very much like rain, and I did not fancy perambulating the streets in a shower. Without much trouble I found the theatre, and entered. The house was filled-it was a smash-a jam. Being the first night of the season, the play-going population had turned out in their full strength. Several actors of acknowledged merit were to ap- pear in the play, and the best comic singer on the continent to stretch to its utmost extent his throat for our amusement. I looked around. On all sides were congregated the feminine leaders of fashion -their feathers and curls were displayed in quan- tities almost beyond calculation. In the box in front of me sat an old lady and a young one. About the old one, so far as I could discover, there was nothing remarkable. She was as ugly as, and, if anything, a little uglier than, old ladies generally are. Nor was her young companion by any means what the world calls a beauty, though she might have managed to pass in a promiscuous crowd with-   '90     FIVE LOVE ADVENT-S          , out attracting considerable notice. They were dressed in the extremity of the prevailing mode, a circumstance which impressed me with a high idea of their importance, even though they were attend- ed by no gentleman. "Probably," thought I, "their companion has retired for a few moments to procure refreshments or look to the carriage." I didn't pay very great attention to the play, 'even though that play was Romeo and Juliet. The reign of Shakspeare for that night was over -the more fashionable of the audience rose to de- part. I heard the old woman tell the young one that it was time to go home-they went out of the box, after some objections on the part of the girl, who, it appeared, desired to hear the singing and afterpiece. I followed. It was raining tremendously-(the heavens had got into the habit of weeping for me! )-it seemed as if the collected water of a century was just then being poured from the upper regions; They stop- ped at the top of the steps and appeared to be in a quandary as to the situation of their carriage. I immediately stepped up, and with the politest air imaginable volunteered my services. "Ladies," said I, particularly addressing the old one while I kept my eye fastened on the other, " al- low me to have the pleasure of finding your carriage. With your direction I will have it up in amoment.'   OF SOLOMON SLG.       91 "Thank you, sir," said the elder, "our coach- man should have been drawn up among the first, as we came early. He is a small man with one eye-dressed in gray--two gray horses." The information wasn't very explicit, except the one eye-but I found and had him up in less time than it takes to tell it. I handed the ladies in with the utmost care, and slily got upon the foothoard to see where they went. After a short drive the carriage stopped.  I jumped down and walked away to a little distance --not so far but what I could see tolerably distinct. The house was a large one, embowered in an im- mense grove--in short, I had no doubt of its being the domicile of one of the princes of wealth. The women got out and went in at the gate, and the vehicle drove off. Taking a good look at the resi- dence of my fair one, I started to see what arrange- ments I could make with some good Samaritan for passing the night. The next day I  employed in making enquiries -oncerning my  Dulcinea. I found that she was the laughter of the Honorable Silas Jinks, a gentle- nan who at some early period in the history of the State had been a member of the legislature. He vas ,reputed to be worth half a million, and had i ,ut two children. "Stop there," I said to myself, don't hear any more! that's enough--half a mil-   P:92    IVE LOVE ADViA&'iJIES lion, and but two children! By all the gods she's mine!" I determined to treat her with a serenade. I got me a sheet of paper and an old pencil, and sat down on the back step of a deserted dwelling to compose something that for tenderness should be unsurpassed by anything that ever had been, or ever should be, written. I had never written a line of doggrel in my life, though I had read cords of poetry-but I had no doubt of my ability to pro- duce something a slight touch above the common. After laboring somewhere in the neighborhood of four hours, I produced something that one just about to be consigned to the walls of the lunatic asylum might have called poetry, but which, even to my enraptured vision, did not strike me as very well qualified to make an extraordinary impression even upon a young girl unacquainted with the laws of rhyme. Anyhow, I thought that with consider- able practice I could manage to sing it. The next business was to get a fiddle. The keep- er iof the very diminutive shanty, which he digni- fied with the title of boarding-house or " hotel," IP forget which, had one, but my appearance not strik- ing him as entirely favorable to its return, I sup- pose, he' hesitated to lend it. I imagine he thought I would put it up the spout to obtain a night's lodg- ing in another place. However, I did at last pro-   OF SOLOMON LUtG.      93 cure it, just as the shades of night were falling. He need not have been so very anxious for -its pre- servation, as it had but two strings, and gave forth a sound not unlike that produced by drawing a saw through a pine knot. Doubtless it was an heir- loom, descended through many long generations of his family, and as such, he looked upon it with feelings of reverential affection. I have one of these relics of antiquity myself-a piece of the toe- nail of one of those who landed on Plymouth Rock, and once a year I take it out of the rag in which it is carefully rolled, and gaze for a minute or two upon it with feelings which may by some supernatural effort be imagined, but cannot by any possibility be described. It was nearly midnight when I reached the place. I scrambled over the high wall, tearing a strip of skin from my leg in the effort. A light was shining from one of the upper side windows. I felt rather mean, it must be confessed, as, if de- tected before my serenade disclosed my character, ,no asseverations of mine would serve to convince that I had come there with any other intention ithan that of perpetrating a burglary. Gentlemen, how- ever mighty may be the strength of their affec- tion, are not usually given to climbing high fences in a rain storm to manifest it; it looks rather suspi- cious, allowing- a good deal for charity. I got be-    "      IV3E:f LOVE ADVENTURES neath the window from which the light issued, and began to prelude. I forgot more than half of the song, but the exclamations the circumstances of my situation caused me to utter extempore served very well to help out the rhyme. In a few minutes I began: I. Up, lady, up! your lover waits, The moon on high is shining; I've clambered over two big gates, And here I am, reclining. Up, lady, up! II. The mud, my love, is ankle deep, (rve ruined quite my breeches!) Awake, my love, no longer sleep, But listen to my speeches. Up, lady, up! Come, come, my love, awake, awake! Hear how my lunrgs Im straining; (I'll swear rye trod upon a snake! Oh, heavens! how 'tis)raining ) Up, lady, up I   OF SOLOMON SLaG.      95 IV. Arise, my love, put on your things, (That blast was a throat-cutter!) Come forth to him who sweetly sings- (By gosh I'm in the gutter!) Up, lady, up! I got thus far and was about to conclude with a grand flourish, in which I meant to combine all the excellencies and peculiarities of Paganini and Ole Bull, when I heard a gate open close to where I was standing-a rush-and then voices shout- ing- "Catch the d-d rascal! catch him! catch him! c-a-t-c-h him! Here Pomp! here Growler! here! here! here! Sick him! sick him! sick him! su- boy! s-u-b-o-y!  It was no time to stop then-I was 0.?II.! Dropping the fiddle, while bull-dogs, murder and trials for robbery danced before my stricken vision, I bounded for the fence i Somebody else might finish the serenade-as for me, my time was out! I grappled the wall and went over it in a jiffy, leaving the biggest half of my coat tail hanging to a nail, and fled like the wind-the shouts of " sick him! catch him! sick him I suboy!" ringing in my ears. I distanced everything, and sneaked into   96     FIVE LOVE ADVENflUS the woods, where I lay till morning, and then tookl the road! I am a confirmed bachelor-bursted! blown up! demolished! devastated! done I i   A GEORGIA COURT. ONE morning in the summer of 18-, while travelling through the upper portion of Georgia, we happened to stop at a little village to rest our horses and refresh ourselves with a days repose. It was about, nine o'clock when we pulled up be- fore the door of the only public house in the place. A few rough-looking personages were lounging in the bar-room, the subject of their conversation being the probable result of a trial about to com- mence before a magistrate of the district-a trial which, judging from the number of countrymen assembled around the door, promised to be inte- resting. As we are afflicted with a tremendous share of curiosity, we moved with the crowd, when the watches announced the hour appointed, to- wards the place where the examination was to be held. This was an old barn, from which the four- legged inhabitants, sundry cows, sheep and hogs, had been unceremoniously ejected to make room for their two-legged oppressors. The hay and straw littering the floor having been brushed away, a clear and tolerably clean space was left for 5   O98      A GEORGIA COURT. the magistrate's seat, a trough turned upside down. A high box in front of this seat served as an apolo- gy for a desk, upon which was placed the back of  a letter, a little muddy ink in the bowl of a tobac- co pipe, and the stump of a quill. When the dust had somewhat settled, the spectators took seats wherever they could get them, some squatting on the floor and some sitting on the rack. The magis- trate and prisoner were the only persons now re- quired to commence business. The functionary soon made his appearance. He was a large, bluff-faced personage, his countenance, one would have thought, but little calculated to strike terror into the hearts of the evil-doers of the district. Taking his seat with a loud hem! he wiped the perspiration from his brow with the back of his hand, and observed that it was time for operations to begin. "This Court are opened according to law, and are ready to do justiss in all cases; lMr. Iulligan are ordered by the Court to act as sheriff." Mr. Mulligan having roared "O yis!" three times, the Court ordered him to bring in the prison- er, who stood charged with the crime of assault with intent to murder. When the prisoner entered he was greeted with many a " how are ye?" from the crowd, and seemed to be quite as unconcerned as could possibly have been expected. He was  i   A GEORG -COURT.      99 directed to face the magistrate, who, however, per- mitted him to seat himself on the desk. "You, Jack Jones, the prisoner at the bar, are charged with attempting to murder by )assault. Now what may you have to say why you shouldn't be tried according to law and witnesses?" "Why, judge," answered Jack, ejecting a small river of tobacco juice from one corner of his mouth, "I've got a heap to say presently, but I want to see what you're a goin' to do before I make any observations. So go ahead, old feller!" "Well, call up the first witness, Simon Snag," exclaimed the 'luire." "Stop!" shouted the prisoner. "I demand my rights, and I'll have 'em or play the devil here among ye! Catch an old boss with shavings, will ye?" "What rights " "What rights! why, the right to be tried by a dozen men. That's accordin' to law ,and justiss. You don't fool me!" "But, your honor," 'observed a young limb of the law, " the prisoner is not upon his final trial now. This is the preliminary examination. You are now to ascertain whether the facts warrant you in committing him for trial before a jury at the next term of the Superior Court." "Oh, shet your fly-trap!" said the magis-   100      A GEORGIA OOUET. trate. I've been a magistrate too long to be dic- tated to. If the prisoner wants to be tried now, I'll get a jury and settle the thing right off. What say, Jack Jones, prisoner at the bar?'" "Now you've got hold of the right end," re- plied Jack. "I'll have the trial now, and when I get off I'll pay this young law feller for his remarks by clawing his hide with a pitchfork. ' Cuss me if I don't., Time's passin', judge, and I want to be travellin' home, so if you are a goin' to try me be quick about it!" Mr. Sheriff, get a jury, and then open that back door. It's hot as h-11 in here! The prison- er will be kind enough to name the men he would like on the jury."5 The prisoner called his jury, who stood along in a row on the floor, and then the first witness, Simon Snag, was called to state the case. "Be quick, Snag," said the prisoner. "Mind what I told ye this mornin'!" "Hold on!" interrupted the magistrate. "I think we had better swear the witness." "I'll agree," Jack replied. Simon Snag being sworn to tell the truth as near as he could come at it, proceeded to give his testi- mony. "You see, judge, I was a comin' along right by the prisoner Mr. Jones' house yisterday mornin'   A GEORGIA. COURT.    i  jest arter daybreak, and when I got up thar by the corner whar you turn round to go to the hog- pen, I seed old Darby a runnin' up by the creek with a stick as it mought be about so long in his hand, and ]Mr. Jones a runnMn' arter him with the axe in his hand and hollerin' to him to hold up till he could come up and chop his head off, and arter- wards'I heerd a man say that was plowin' over in the next patch that he heerd Jones say that he'd knocked him down with a rail, and then swore he'd chop his head off, but I seed SMr. Jones afore, he was took up this mornin' , and he told me that, Darby had been a tryin' to steal his hogs out of his pen, and he was only a tryin' to skeer him by run- nin' arter him with the axe, and he said if he'd a cotched him he meant to a fetched him here and swear agin him for tryin to grab his hogs, and then he axed me to come along here and tell you that he told me what; I've jest told you, and that's everything that I knows about it anyhow." "Jack Jones, any questions to ax the witness?" rnquired the magistrate. s"No, I b'lieve not jest now," replied the prisoner. "Then call the witness on the part of the State. r. Sheriff, call John Swagger." Mr. Swagger appeared, was duly qualified, and 7as beginning his evidence, when he was inter- apted by the prisoner.   102      A GEORGIA. COURT. "Look here, judge," said Jack, "you ain't a goin' to hear what Swagger's got to say, are ye? Bekase if ye are, I purtest agin the whole purceed- ings. Me and him had a fight last Christmas was a year ago, and I kin prove that he said he got the best on', when everybody that seed it knows it's a cussed lie. If everybody's willin' I and him will have the fight over before you go ahead any further with the trial." "I'm agreed," responded Swagger. "We won't disturb the Court.. We'll go out in the back lot and do the business, and the one that gets licked shall liquor the crowd." The crowd began to move toward the back lot, some pulling off their coats and rolling up their shirt sleeves as if it were to be a general fight, when they were peremptorily ordered by the magistrate to remain. "That's agin all law," he observed. ( We must get through with the trial first. I forgot to bring the law book, but I know what's law. Swagger will be allowed to testify, and arterwards Jones kin ax him any questions that he wants to. Mr. Sheriff, thar aint but 'leven of the jury in court. Run out and hunt up t'other one." The missing juryman was discovered searching in the haystack for a bottle which he said he had secreted there before the commencment of the trial.   A GEORGIA COURT.     103 He was furious when he found that it was gone, and rushed into Court swearing that he wouldn't have anything more to do with the case unless he was furnished with a drink. A dozen bottles of the ardent were immediately flourished in the air- magistrate, prisoner, jurymen, witnesses and spec- tators took a drink, and silence was, in some measure, obtained. "Go on, Swagger," said the 'Squire. "Darby come down to my house jest arter Jones run him off, and told me that he went to Jones' house to borrow his swingletree, bein' as how he had broke his'n a plowin' about in the stones in his patch. Jest as he was a goin' in the gate he seed Jones a peepin' out through a crack in the house, so he hollered to him 'good mornin',' and axed him for the loan of his swingletree, bein' as how he had broke-his'n a plowin' about in the stones in his patch. But Jones made out as if he never heerd him, and come out of the back door, and come about halfway across to the fence and axed Darby what he mought be arter. So Darby told him that he wanted to borrow his swingletree, bein' as how he had broke his'n a plowin' about in the stones in his patch. Jones axed Darby to come in, and Darby opened the gate and got nigh to Jones, when Jones looked round to Darby, and then Jones pick- ed up a piece of a rail and Jones throwed at Darby   104      A. GEORGIA COURT. and Jones hit Darby on the back and Darby fell down. But the rail that Jones throwed at Darby wasn't very big, so Darby got up and begun to run, and Jones picked up the axe and told Darby to wait till he could chop his head off, but Darby kept on runnin' till Jones fell down and bumped his knee agin a rock, and then Darby stopped run- nin' and walked down to my house and told me all about it. That's all." "Do you know why Mr. Darby didn't come to Court to-day?" asked the magistrate of the witness. "It looked a little lke rain, and so he stayed home to get in the balance of his fodder and axed me to come here and witness for him." "It's all a d-d lie!" shouted Jones. "Silence in Court!"' thundered the magistrate. "We must have order observed or justice can't be done. You got any questions to ax this witness, Jack Jones, prisoner at the bar?" "Of course," answered the prisoner. "I goes in for justiss and the rights of man. The jury must pay particular attention to the answers of the witness. I want to do everything accordin' to law. Now, Mr. Swagger, didn't me and you have a fight last Christmas was a year ago?" "You know we did." ' Didn't you say arterwards that you got the best of that fight?"   A GEORGIA COURT.     10 Cc No.)j "You didn't " "Well, I didn't." "Mr. Goggles, come up and be swore." One of the bystanders walked up to the desk and was sworn. "Goggles," said the prisoner, " didn't you and Swagger have a talk about the fight the day arter- wards a" "Yes, I b'lieve we did have some kind of a talk about it. Yes, I think we did. Anyhow, I won't be certain, nohow." Whar did you have them words?" "Down by the creek. I was a goin' home from my darter's and I met Mr. Swagger a sittin' on a pine log by the creek. I seed his eyes had been gouged right sharp, so I axed him what done it. He said Mr. Jones, the prisoner, done it. I axed him if it was did in a fight. Yes, he said." "Didn't he say he got the best of that fight?" "Well, I'm not anyways sartin, but as you say so I think he did." "That's enough. I'm done with you, Swagger. You're a d-d liar, and I've proved it. If you've got anything to say agin that, jest say it to me." "Never mind," answered Swagger, "we'll wait till another time. I'll be with ye when ye say the word i" 5*   106      A GEORGIA COURT. "Any more witnesses?" the magistrate en- quired. "I hain't got no more," said the prisoner. "Well, then I shall proceed to charge the jury. Gentlemen of the jury, this are a case of the high- est importance to the honor, dignity, interest, peace, order and welfare of the State of Georgia. It's most dinner time, so I hain't got no time to explain the case, but I s'pect you've all heerd the testi- mony. Anyhow, whether you've heerd the testi- mony or not, I think you've got sense enough to know what ought to be done with Mr. Jones, and it's your business and nobody else's to do what you know is accordin' to law. Mr. Jones says he only meant to skeer Darby with the axe, and accordin' to law we're always bound to b'lieve a man until what he's said is proved a lie. I've known Mr. Jones a long time, and I never had no fuss with him. If it's necessary I'll swar to that myself. If you b'lieve Mr. Jones you'll find him not guilty, but if you b'lieve old Darby you'll find him guilty. If anybody's got a match I'd like to have it to light my pipe with. Anybody got one?" "I object, judge, to your smokin' here," said the owner of the barn. "Thar's a heap of fodder and hay here, and I don't want to have a bonfire made out of it. Go somewhar else if you want to smoke."   A GEORGIA COURT.  I   107l "Do you undertake to dispute my authority  Recollect that I'm a justiss of the peace for this district!" "D-n the justiss of the peace! I tell you I won't have my barn burnt up!" "This barn are a Court-house for the present. I have taken possession of it in the cause of the State and justiss."  "Well, all I've got tosay is, if you smoke here you've got to whip me first! Put that in your pipe! I'll lather you like h-11 if I get hold of you!" "Mr. Sheriff, arrest that man for contempt of Court. I'll have him took care of." "If I do I'll be d-d!" replied the Sheriff. "You've got no right to burn his barn up if you are a justass of the peace!" Here one of the jury desired to know if they were to finish the trial before dark. He had nine miles to travel over to reach home, and he was going directly. The 'Squire bridled his passion and remarked to the prisoner that if he had any- thing to say in the way of defence, he would con- fer a favor by saying it as quickly as possible. "Gentlemen of the Jury," said Jones, "I hain't got much larnin', and maybe I can't say what I've got to say exactly as some other people would say it, but I'd be hung afore I'd pay a lawyer a single   A GEORGIA COURT. copper to argufy on my case. They hain't proved nothin' agin me yet, and when a man's took up and thar can't be nothin' proved agin him, he's obleeg- ed to be sot clear. That's law all the world over. Now, I cotched old Darby in my hogpen a tryin' to steal my hogs, and I never said nothin' about it bekase I never had no witness. So when he come to my house the next mornin' to borrow my swingletree, I axed him what he was a doin' last night in my hogpen. He said whoever said he was in my hogpen told a d-d lie. I told him I seed him thar myself, and axed him if he meant to call me a liar. He said if I said I seed him in my hogpen I was a liar. Then I ups with the rail and I lets him have it. I took the axe to skeer him so he might stop and I could ketch him, but he kept on runnin' and I fell down and skinned my knee agin a rock. Then I got a order to come here and be tried for attemptin' to murder him. But I know you won't be hard on me. I say, Sol. Tucker, you know last winter I loaned you corn when you didn't have a single ear to swar by. Now find me guilty of tryin' to murder old Darby if you can. Joe Taylor, didn't I take good care of your things when you and your wife were both sick ?" " Yes, d-d if you didn't !" replied the juryman appealed to. "Bill Snipes, didn't I ketch your nigger when   A GEORGIA COURT.   109   he'd been run away three years come November, and fetch him safe home and never axed a cent !" "That you did, and I won't forgit it." " Sam Cobb, didn't I help you save your house when it war a burnin' ? " " Yes, you did.?' " Joe Scott, didn't I draw your old horse out of the ditch when he fell in last summer ? " " Hanged if you didn't." "Jack Green, didn't I lend you my wagon for nothin' when your'n broke down " "Well, hoss, you did !" "Then I say," continued the prisoner, " that it's agin all law for you to find me guilty. You can't do it accordin' to law, and the law's what you've got to go by. I won't bother you no longer." i When the prisoner had concluded, the magis- trate recollected that in his hurry to get through with the trial he had forgotten to swear the jury. As this, he said, was a matter of but slight conse- quence, it could be done just as well after the trial as before. However, as he desired to do business in the manner prescribed by the law, he hoped the jury would not object to be sworn. After some de- liberation this was Agreed to by the jury, who were sworn to do justice provided they thought justice ought to be done. "The jury must consider the evidence and give "O      A GEORGIA COURT. a verdict accordin' to law," said the 'Squire. I appoint Mr. Snipes foreman." "What's, a goin' to be done with Jones if we find him guilty?" asked one of the jurors. "Why, I don't remember what the law is on that p'int. He'll have to be hung, or go to the penitentiary for life, I b'lieve. Anyhow, if you find him guilty I won't pass sentence till I send home for the book and look in that. The jury will retire." The jury mounted into the loft of the barn, and the magistrate proposed to the prisoner a game of poker while they were deliberating. No objection being made, the 'Squire produced a pack of soiled and torn cards, and the two were deep in the mys- teries of the game, when Bill Snipes, the foreman, popped his head down and informed the 'Squire that the jury found some considerable difficulty in agreeing. "Pair of kings and an ace. What's the reason they can't agree now? . Jy deal." "Bekase, Jim Sapp says that Jones owes him a dollar and sixty two cents and he won't agree until it's paid." "Tell him," said Jones, " that I'll give him my note for it. I hain't got no money now, or I'd a paid it this mornin'. Got you, by golly! two -air /   A GEORGIA COUT.       ll The head drew back, and in a few moments again appeared. "It ain't no use. Sapp says he must have cash. He's got six of Jones' notes now. You'd better make haste about it down thar, for Sam Cobb's goin' home if we don't agree in five minutes." Jones went round among his friends, who stood up to him nobly in this appalling situation. Two or three contributed a quarter each, and others a shilling, until the whole amount was collected. It was handed up to Sapp, who pocketed it and an- nounced that he had agreed. "All right!" exclaimed the foreman. "Well, come down, then," responded the magis- trate. The jury crept down and ranged themselves again in a row, the foreman at their head. "Gentlemen of the Jury, is Jack Jones guilty or not guilty " "Not guilty," "Every one agreed accordin' to law and wit- nesses?" "Yes, sirree!" "Then I, magistrate for this district, is ob- leeged to discharge the prisoner, Jack Jones. It wouldn't a made a speck of difference whether Jim Sapp agreed or not. If, the jury hadn't agreed, I must a let Jones go, bekase a man in   "2      A GEORGIA COoRT. this glorious State can't be tried for his life but once, nohow." "Is that law, judge?" demanded Jones. "It ain't nothin' else!" "Why didn't ye tell me that afore I paid Sapp the money, d-n ye?" "Look here, Jones, I hain't no right to strike a prisoner, bekase I'm an officer, but you're not a prisoner now. You're discharged from the custody of the law. But you've cussed a magistrate, and you'll either have to swallow what you've said or have a fight. You goin' to take it back?" "No l "Then take that!" roared the 'Squire, driving his fist with all his force into Jones' face. All was now  "confusion worse confounded." Jones staggered back from the effects of the blow, but he immediately recovered, and began to pitch into the magistrate, right, left, and centre. A lick from the man of law was instantly followed by Jones butting him in the belly. The 'Squire, who boasted of a corporation of considerable rotundity, being unable to withstand this battering ram, measured his length on the floor. Shouts and curses resounded from all quarters-coats were again pulled off and thrown aside, the wearers again preparing for a general fight, when the 'Squire, who had recovered a little breath, exclaim-   A GEORGIA COURT.      113 ed, "I give up! I command the peace! I'll treat/" This settled the matter. Mr. Mulligan, the sheriff pro. tem., having roared "This Court are adjourn- e!" at the front and back doors, the crowd, in high good humor with themselves and all the world, moved as rapidly as their legs, could carry  them towards the shanty where whiskey was dis- posed of at five cents a pint. Mr. Jones, nothing loth to take a drink with each of his friends, was soon in a state of intoxication, and was with some difficulty hoisted into a cart, he being too far gone to sit on his horse. The 'Squire, whose courage rose in exact proportion to the number of drinks he took, declared his intention of soundly thrashing the very first man who dared to assert that the trial was not " accordin' to law." As it was nearly dark, the majority were soon on their way home, some of them in not a very enviable plight.   THE VILLAGE INN. THB quiet and orderly little village of , in the State of Maine, was one morning in December, 18-, the scene of tremendous commotion among the good, peaceable inhabitants. Heads were seen peering out of every window, half-dressed forms were in every door, and nearly the whole male population were quickly seen wending their way to the village inn, kept by a jolly old fellow, Abraham Tarbox. And what was the cause of all this up- roar? Why, a coach and four had just before driven up to the door of the inn, stopped, and an unknown gentleman had alighted and taken up his quarters in the inn aforesaid. Such a thing had never happened before, within the memory of the very oldest inhabitant. What could it mean? each one asked his neighbor. Had war been proclaim- ed between the United States and England? and had orders come on to order out the militia and march them to the field of carnage? or was the President dead, and had a new election for a suc- cessor taken place . The peaceful villagers were boiling over with curiosity, and each man seemed !   TEE VILLAQc A .      "S to have suddenly concluded to step to the inn and there learn the cause of this sudden and unexpect- ed arrival. The old bar-room of the inn was soon filled to overflowing, and whiskey punches, gin slings,-peach brandies, and apple toddies were in continual requisition., Round the fire were seated some dozen of the most influential men of the vil- lage, with old 'Squire Spiker at their head. After looking round and seeing that no stranger was in the room, the 'Squire, who could restrain his im- patience no longer, exclaimed to the innkeeper, who was at his post behind the bar, jingling glasses with an art that demonstrate him to be an adept at handing out the drink--  "Mr. Tarbox, who is that strange gentleman that's stopping here with you The one that came in the coach and four this morning?" With due importance the innkeeper set down a glass which he was about to fill, and speaking slowly and distinctly, so that every word might be caught and swallowed by his gasping hearers, answered- "That's more than I can tell. I don't know who he is, nor I hain't found out yet, but one thing I do know, and that is, he come from the City-of New- York."      ' ' Good gracious 1 Come from New-York? Who can he be?" was spoken by a dozen voices, as if   Bea BIrAGKE INN. by one impuse. The old 'Squire had another question to propound. "Didn't you look at his baggage?  You must .ave seen that when he got out. Where is he now?  "No, I didn't see his baggage, for 'twan't nothing but a little roll of paper, and that he's car- ried with him up to his room, where you can go and talk with, him. if you want to." This proposition the 'Squire did not seem to relish, but it being backed by all the villagers as- sembled, he thought it incumbent on him to show his rank and influence in the village, and so mo- tioning the landlord to lead on, he signified his willingness to gratify the curiosity of himself and the rest by visiting the cause of the uproar. He followed the landlord into the room of the mysterious personage, where at a table covered with writing implements sat a very gentlemanly looking man, about thirty-five, who very kindly asked him to take a chair and sit down. The 'Squire, however, remained standing in the middle of the room for at least ten minutes, when feeling that he must say something, and not knowing what to say to the purpose, or how to explain the cause of the intrusion, said,  Very cold to-day, ain't it ?" This was all he could say-of course, when he had said it he felt more comfortable.   "Pretty cool, but you seem to be well off here. You have a very pretty little town, I believe." " Yes, I guess it is as--as-as-well, I won't say that it ain't full as good as some others." " I think it is," answered the stranger, and for some moments there was a dead silence. The 'Squire at last mustered up sufficient courage to break it. "You come from New-York, I calculate. Now, say, don't you ? "Yes." " Business pretty good there, ain't it ? " "Yes." Here there was another dead silence, each -ap- pearing anxious that the other should speak first. The stranger, having waited some time for the 'Squire to speak, addressed him- " 'Squire Spiker-I think that is your name, is it not ?" The 'Squire nodded. He could'nt speak. Some- thing was coming. "Well 'Squire Spiker, I have something which I wish to say to you, and if Our good friend Tarbox will retire, I will say it now in a very few words." The landlord, who had been standing in the door listening very attentively, now withdrew, and the 'Squire said he was ready to hear.  1$3    THEI VIT,T AGE INN. "Ahem! I see in you, 'Squire, a man who I think is worthy of the highest confidence; one who, although I have been here but a few hours, I am willing to entrust with my confidence. My name is Robert Simpkins, and I propose to issue a weekly newspaper in this town, to be called The Maine Advocate. The subscription price is three dollars per annum, to be paid in advance. I know you to be the man of the greatest authority in the place; one who can sway the minds of the inhabi- tants with ease. Now, I propose to call a meet- ing to-morrow night of all the villagers, and lay the matter before them fully. How many sons have you?" "Five," said the 'Squire. "All grown?" "All over seventeen." "What do they do " "Work on my farm." "What do you think their labor is worth to you a day?" About seventy-five cents a day." "Well, now, 'Squire, I will tell you what I will do. If you will go on the morning after to-morrow and furnish them with horses and send them out to get subscribers to the new paper, I will give you three dollars for each of them every day they are gone."   T  VILLAGE INN.      119 "I'll do it!" exclaimed the 'Squire, in raptures at his good luck, and not a little tickled by the flattery which the stranger had heaped upon him so plentifully. "All right so far," said Mr. Simpkins. "Now, 'Squire, for every subscriber you get yourself I'll give you twenty-five cents." The 'Squire could not speak; he was too full of joy; absolutely running over. The stranger again spoke. "If you want to have things go right, do not, I beg of you, lisp a syllable of what I have told you, to a living soul. You might mar the whole busi- ness. I wish to astonish the villagers to-morrow. You can leave me now." The 'Squire took up his hat and slowly left the room, impressed with the highest opinion of the generosity and talent of Mr. Simpkins. The vil- lagers in the bar-room were all agog to hear the news. As the 'Squire entered they rose simultane- ously, and "who is he?" "what does he want?" "what is he going to do?" flew about the old room. The 'Squire answered not satisfactorily, but shaking his head informed them that they would know all about it in the morning. This only in- flamed their desire the more, but as they could learn nothing farther than that something would be done the next day, they severally departed to their   120      TIEE VLACE INN. homes and avocations, to await the events which the next morning was to bring forth. The next morning flaming handbills were seen posted up in every portion of the village, informing the good folks that a great meeting was that even- ing to be held in 'Squire Spiker's barn, concerning a matter in which everybody was interested. The Lews spread like wildfire, and in the evening Yearly two hundred villagers and countrymen were fund assembled in the 'Squire's barn. The land- lord of the inn had been completely drained out, and was compelled to send a lad to the nearest town for a new supply of liquors to fill the throats of the throng. The meeting was organised by ap- pointing 'Squire Spiker chairman, and Major Hob- son, a little farmer from the country, secretary. The stranger, Mr. Simpkins, then arose snd taking a roll of papers from his pocket, selected one, which he proceeded to read to the crowd as fol- lows  "The growing importance of the town of demands that notice and attention which has not heretofore been given to it. Its rights must be maintained and its standard elevated. This I pro- pose to do by publishing a weekly newspaper in   THE VILLAGE INN.      121 the town, to be called The Maine Advocate. Each number will contain remarks on Agriculture, es- pecially designed for the benefit of the people of this portion of the country. Politics, Literature, the prices of produce, Exchange Tables, Poetry, Marriages, Births, Deaths, the Presidents' Mes- sages, News from all parts of the World, Engrav- ings, Advertisements, Horrid Murders, Awful Catastrophes, Accounts of Earthquakes, War, Famine, &c.,' &c., &c., will have a conspicuous place in every paper. To be published weekly at the enormously low price of three dollars a year, payable in advance. I am now ready to receive payments. The presses and complete fixtures will be here in a week, when I shall issue the first num- ber of my magnificent journal.' I have the ex- treme pleasure of putting down my friend 'Squire Spiker for two copies." Mr. Simpkins here wrote down 'Squire Spiker's name, two copies. iThe 'Squire put his hand in-his pocket, and pulled out six dollars, which were im- mediately transferred to the pocket of the stranger. This was a settler. A newspaper! why it was hardly possible that the little embryo town had be- come of so much importance in so short a period. Dollars were shelled out like corn, the landlord of the inn took and paid for two copies for the bar- room; nearly every man was down for one, and 6   122      THE VILLAGE INN. when Mr. Simpkins left for the inn he had up- wards of three hundred dollars in his pocket. The next day the 'Squire's sons were dispatched to procure subscribers, and returned in the evening with twenty each. The next day, and the next, and the next, the names and cash of new sub- scribers were pouring in, so that on the day before the presses were to arrive, Mrn Simpkins had fob- bed the neat little sum of eleven hundred dollars. The next morning, the one which was to bring the presses, was greeted by the villagers with ex- ceeding joy. At an early hour the inn was filled with anxious faces, waiting the appearance of Mr. Simpkins. He did not appear. For hours they sat, until their impatience would no longer brook restraint, when it was resolved that a deputation of villagers, headed by the landlord, should wait upon the stranger and learn the cause of his non-ap- pearance. They proceeded to his room, opened the door and marched in, but he was not there. While some were deliberating concerning this, one of the number happening to look out of the window, per- ceived a small rope ladder leading from the win- dow to the ground. This, then, was the way he had gone. And from that day to this nothing farther has been heard of Robert Simpkins, Esquire, Editor and Proprietor of The Maine Ad- vocate, by the villagers.   THE MAN WHOSE MOTHER DIDN'T KNOW HE WAS OUT. h.,1 THS is a great world-ours is a great country- we are a great people. Why should not all enjoy themselves, provided they do it in such a manner as not to infringe upon the established rules of so- ciety or the laws of the land? '"Whatever thy hand findeth to do that let it do," provided it findeth nothing to do in thy neighbor's pocket or hen-house. This is a qualification which it has been found absolutely requisite to add for the safety of man's property. i Jim Smith was born in the pleasant and delight- fully situated town of Smithboro', where in all probability his father and mother were born before him. We say they were in all probability born there, because we have not positive evidence that they were born anywhere else. It is not absolutely necessary to state that he was born, for if any one doubts it, I not dnly solemnly assert the fact, but I earnestly request him (or her, as the case may be) to repair immediately to Smithboro', and in the fourth house from the tavern on the corner-which i.   124:    THE: MtANT WEOSE: OTHER tavern is known by a large tin coffee-pot hung over the door as a sign--he will find Widow Smith, the maternal parent of our hero, who will produce from the third shelf of a pine dresser opposite the entrance, a large Bible bound in black leather, which Bible being opened at the four hundred and seventy-sixth page, under the head of Births, will testify as follows :-"Our son, Jeemes Alexander Sisero Smith, was born on the fourteenth of November, in the year of our Lord, 18-." This will satisfy any one who doubts that Jim was born. The father of Jim "shuffled off this mortal coil'? when his son was but ten years old, and Jim was left solely to the care of his mother, a clever, ignorant old woman, who, provided she could sell in the course of the day cakes and ale sufficient to pur- chase a little tea, and a small quantity of another drinkable, commonly known as gin, to qualify the grateful beverage, would contentedly sit with a gossip and let the world wag on as it thought proper. It is not, therefore, to be supposed that Jim's education improved very rapidly under her management. Indeed, I aver that if the list of scholars in all the schools of the State were to be examined, the name of Master James Alexander Cicero Smith could not be found in it. This may appear extremely astonishing, but it is nevertheless stritly true.   1   DhIDnYT KOW HE WAS OUT.    125 It was one day, a few months after the decease of her " poor dear man," that Widow Smith pre- pared to visit a gossip. Taking the amount of the day's, sales out of a tea-caddy, and depositing it in her pocket, for fear that Jim might be robbed in her absence if she left it behind, together with a pocket pistol, vulgarly denominated a bottle, to contain the half pint which she should drop into the tavern to procure on her return, she departed, not, however, without administering a-caution to Jim, who was to be left in charge of the goods and chattels-which may in future days be re- garded as the quintessence of valuable advice, and the giver be held up as a specimen of concentrated - wisdom. "Jimmy, my boy," said she, ' now mind what I am going to tell ye. Set down here by the door and watch the things-don't let any of the owdacious vagabonds loafing about, steal 'em, for / Jimmy, they is precisely what the good Mr. Tal- lowface said in his sermont last Sunday, the rampa- gious lion going about a hunting to grab something. Don't ye credit none, bekase if ye trust yer things all off, and don't git no money for 'em, how ye going to buy bread? answer me that!" Jim re- plied "I donno," and the old girl continued. "Now, mind what! I told ye, but above all things, Jimmy, do't go out. I'm jest a going down street   126   - THE MAN WOSE MOTHER a minnit to see how Mrs. Johnson gets on-she's bin mighty sick with the fever and ager, and is jest gitting about. Now, Jimmy, mind!" For some time after the departure of his mater- nal parent and controller, Jim guarded the "things" with a steadiness perfectly exemplary, if we except the appropriation of some cakes and ale to himself, but Jim had desires as well as the rest of the human family, and those desires must be gratified, so the forbidden cakes and ale were sacrificed. A party of boys then passed on their way to fly a kite, and Jim was sorely tried, but with a heroism perfectly unparalleled in the annals of Lacedremon or Rome, he refused to shut up and leave. A squad next came by, fully armed and equipped for the capture of the finny tribe. This Jim couldn't stand. He had shown his forti- tude in withstanding the endeavors of his first ac- quaintance to persuade him to go and see them fly the kite, but he dearly loved to catch fish, and eat them too, so the tempter triumphed, and he closed his door and hastened to the river. A vessel bound for the West Indies was lying near their fishing-ground-everything was ready for her to proceed. to sea-the captain was just about to give the order for casting off, when, struck with the healthy, sturdy appearance of Jim, he beckoned to him to approach.   DI]DNT KNOW HE WAS OUT.    127 "I say, my lad, where do you live?" "Up the street a piece." "Who is your father?"           ; "Hain't got none." "Then who is your mother? 7' "Widow Smith." "Oh, Smith, is it? Well, now, wouldn't you like to take a trip with me to the West Indies in my vessel?  You know that there's where the sweet oranges grow, my boy." Jim smacked his lips, for like the king's fool, he loved everything good, but he thought of his mother and hesitated. "What'll the old gal say?" "Oh, we shall be back very soon., Your ma will hardly miss you before we shall be back. Come, catch hold of this rope. That's the way to do the business." Jim suffered himself to be persuaded-the ropes that kept the vessel to the wharf were loosened, and in a few minutes he was on his way to the West Indies. Great was the astonishment of the " old gal on her return, after spending a delicious afternoon with Mrs. Johnson, at finding the door closed and Jim gone. Great -was her wrath on discovering that a quantity of her cakes had been abstracted. "Oh, that wretched Jim! He's bin stealing my   1.28    THE MAN WHOSE MOTHER cakes, and now he's gone and hid, but he shan't git off, that he shan't. P'raps I won't trounce him when I gits a hold on him! oh, p'raps! Didn't I tell him not to go out? didn't I?" Here the widow got out of breath, and in order to recover it took a hearty swig of the contents of the pocket pistol. "If I had a known that he was out, wouldn't I left everything and come right home? Yes, I would. I shouldn't wonder a bit if he's stole all my ale too." Here she entered into an examination of the bottles. "Yes, d'rot him, some of that's gone too! But, never mind, jest wait till I catch him-jest wait!  At this juncture a visitor entered, and the widow sat down entirely exhausted. "So, Mrs. Smith, you have sent Jim away," said the visitor. "Sent old Scratch away! He's stole all my cakes and ale, and gone off and  hid hisself. There's where he's sent to." "You're mistaken, Mrs. Smith; he's gone off to the West Ingies, for I seen him go jist now in Cap'in Currant's ship." Gone whar?" "To the West Ingies."        , Widow Smith dropped out of her chair, which we suppose was partly owing to her friend's intel ligence, and partly to the deep potations in which   DIDNrT BEOW mH WAS OTT.'   129 she had indulged during her soliloquy. It did not require much exertion to recover her, and in a short time she was herself again, being con- soled by the reflection that "West Ingian niggers was jest fit for that drotted Jim!" After the lapse of ten years we find Jim a street loafer in New-Orleans. During that long period he had been knocked about from Dan to Beersheba-now in the West Indies, now in Eu- rope, now in America. Jim  did not like salt water, so he concluded to desert at the first port he'; came to on his return, which port happened to be New-Orleans. He had scarcely learned one nauti- cal phrase while afloat; the captains with whom he shipped invariably put him ashore as soon as the destination was reached, after cursing him for a "shallow-pated numbscull." Jim's old loafing habits stuck to him-he was born to be a loafer, and he could be nothing else. He had never since his departure heard of his mother, nor had she heard of him, although two or three times in the course of every day she expressed a longing to be- hold- Jim once more, always coupled with the ob- servation, if he hadn't gone out this wouldn't a happened 1'  6*   130     Tflas M AT WHOSn MO'CThet The little cash Jim had when he landed was soon expended, and we next find him stretched out on the sunny side of a thoroughfare, indulging in no very agreeable musings. His hat was totally independent of a crown; he was out at elbows, out at knees, out at toes, and out of cash, with a very fair-indeed, we may say, an extraordinarily fair- chance of getting in the calaboose. His cogita- tions, therefore, were anything but pleasant. "Well, here I am," he soliloquised, c in an aw- ful sitewation. I wonder what my dear ma would say if she see me. It would kinder discombobo- rate the old gal, I'm a thinking. What's to be done? as the politishuns says at their meetings. That's the question. I can't git no work, and if I could I isn't acquainted with the science of workin'. Everybody a'most has got something to do except this youth, who isn't able to raise money enough to wet his whistle. There's a plenty of water, for that matter, but I isn't used to it; somehow or other it don't agree with me. Well, as I had the honor of sayin' afore, what's to done? I see into it --I' must go into the business of exploring folk's pockets. There's plenty of property-the only difficulty lies in grabbin' it. And why shouldn't I have niy share on't? Doesn't the Constertushun say as how all men are born free and ekwal, and have certain rights what can't be took away no- t    )   DIDN'T KNOW HE WAS OUT.    131 \ how? Yes, hoss, it does. Well, then, under the Constertushun I claim this property. I goes in strong for a division of property-them's my prin- ciples, and the Constertushun says that my princi- ples is obleeged to be respected by everybody. This is the very fust time that I ever diskivered that I had law to back me. In the fust place, though, I must take horrid good care not to git cotched, for people (and 'specially Charlies, d-n 'em!) hain't got so as to understand anything about the fundermental principles of law yit, but if so be I does git overhauled, I'll produce the Conster- tushun and nonplush 'em, judges, hofficers, lawyers and all, quick time. I'll examine the premises, as the land buyers say, afore I commence opera- tions." Jim's ideas may appear rather strange to many of our readers-his views of the Constitution rather singular. But Jim was a leveller-an advocate for the division of property; the owners of that pro- perty not having signified their intention of divid- ing, Jim felt himself entirely justified in taking his share without even saying " by your leave." Jim had to steal or starve. We call it stealing; Jim firmly believed that what he took was his by right. Working didn't agree with him-he wasn't used to it. Begging was out of the question-no- body gives anything to beggars now-a-days. Be- f   )    THE MAX WHOSE MOTHiER sides, Jim was too proud to solicit alms. He had a soul above it. No! it was his right he wanted! "The times ain't nohow as they used to be," he continued. 'They is got considerably harder. The neighbors of the old gal used to say-them as knowed anything-that I had lots of poetry in my composition. If there's any of it left, I'd sell it cheap. Who'll buy? There ain't no war-if there was, a feller might do a rousing business in the filching line, provided he didn't git took and made to shoulder a musket, a occupation I would ask to be exscused from follerin'. I must put my five nip- persinto somebody's wallet afore shortly, or I'm a subject for twelve free and independent citizens to set on. That, I s'pect, is jest about the shortest way to tell it!' Here Jim drew up. His eyes glistened. Op- posite stood a private boarding-house, the door of which was invitingly open. The boarders were all in at supper, and the evening being warm, they had taken off their coats, and, together with their hats, hung them up in thb passage. The oppor- turity was altogether too good to be lost. Quickly threading his way across the muddy street, Jim softly entered the house, and detaching a fine broadcloth dress coat from one of the pegs, came forth and walked boldly up the street. He had not proceeded ten steps before a hand was laid roughly    DIDmRT LNOW HE WAS OUT.    133  upon his shoulder, when turning round to behold the arrester of his walk, he discovered--oh, horror of horrors!-a guardian of the peace and property, commonly called a Charley. "I say, bucky," observed the watchman, "where are ye bound?" Jim was thunderstruck. He managed, however, to get out, " p town."' "So fur, so good," said Charley. "But what are ye goin' to do with that?" pointing to the coat. "You've made a raise lately, hain't ye'?" "Ye-ye-yes," replied Jim. "So I diskivered jest now. I seed ye, bucky, so jest give up the spile and take a tramp with me. Your company's particularly wanted!" "But stop!" stammered Jim. "This 'ere coat is mine. I goes in for a division of property. I claims under the Constertushun!" "No doubt on't; not the least in life. But we governors of the hindedependent people doesn't allow no division o' property. I claims you under the Constitooshun. Come on!" Jim submitted. He was claimed under the Con- stitution. This was an argument he hadn't dream- ed of-it horrified him. He claimed the coat un- der the law, and' under that identical law the 'vulgar watchman claimed him. "Don't say no more," said he, "I'm a deceased gander, by gosh!"    IE MAN 'WHOSE MOTHEER &C.  To employ his own expressive words, he was completely "done over and exflunctified." By that hour the next day it was decided that he must be under the necessity of sojourning for a limited period in limbo. After the expiration of his term of imprisonment he wended his way to his mother, where he can be found at present. Each time the old girl speaks of it she invariably adds, 'if Jim hadn't a gone out that day it wouldn't a happen- ed!"He still is to be seen loafing about in the goodly town of Smithboro', where it is extremely probable he will continue to loaf until his loafing days are over.   THE GREAT U'S   IT was just after the inauguration of President of the United States-no matter for the year. The struggle was over; to employ a very expressive phrase, " the thing was out." The successful can- didate was installed-the shoutings of his happy admirers had died away-the roar of the cannon and the roll of the drum had ceased. But now commenced another strife-the struggle of the Office Seekers. Washington was filled to overflowing with these gentry. There might have been discovered the man of seventy-his head frosted by the snows of many winters-his step trembling with age and anxiety-eagerly joining in the great scramble for place and power. Perhaps for years, long years, he had been striving for the elevation of the party which was at last successful-perhaps he had ex- pended his time and money to witness the fall of those opposed to him in principle-his reward he looked jupon as certain. There he is, elbowing his way among the throng of petitioners-jostled by those who have no eyes but for their own interest,    136      mE GREAT USED-IUP. no ears for any tale but their own-jostling others with an energy only surpassed by the youngest. Day after day is he to be found waiting upon the dispensers of office-day after day he retires but to again appear with redoubled exertions. He is daunted by nothing; his voice is heard among the loudest; he is well aware of the fact that victory awaits the boldest. Perhaps after all his labor and expense the place for which he strove so strenuous- ly is given to another. The hope by which he has been hitherto sustained is dead-his spirits sink beneath the disappointment. Kindness comes too late, then; disgusted with the world, he mournfully returns to meet the compassionating gaze of his friends. The grave soon closes over the disappoint- ed seeker of office, and he is forgotten. There, too, we might have beheld the youth of twenty-two summers, just entering upon the great struggle of life-his breast filled with glorious an- ticipations. Strong and ardent, he considers not the possibility of defeat in the strife; he cannot be made to comprehend that others, older and more experienced in political warfare than himself, have claims upon the patronage of government worthy of higher consideration. He has shouted and battled as well as they--his influence too has been exerted--his character is, in every respect, as good as theirs. But, perhaps, he also is doomed to   THE GREAT USED-UP.     137 "chew the bitter cud ' of disappointment. For a moment the announcement of his defeat staggers him, but he quickly rallies, and with a laugh at his failure, departs. Four years roll round-again the cry of his party is heard throughout the land- again the call is made upon him. He flies to the ranks. His years are increased-he is possessed of more knowledge-he is better acquainted with the art of scheming for power. Perhaps his prin- ciples again triumph. Then do we see him again at the seat of government ; another class of men deal out favors; "Success " attends him. One mo- ment of intoxicating joy amply pays for former ne- glect-in the one word "Success " he includes hap- piness. He is stimulated to farther exertions, and though another election may result in the defeat of the cause to which he is attached and for which he strives, his ardor will not again be suffered to dampen, nor his hope of future triumph fail. And now, O tremendously wicked and awfully beloved reader, having edified you with the fore- going, from which we have no doubt you will de- rive the greatest kind of benefit, let us come back to the point of our setting out and enlighten you still further. It was, as we have said, in the opening of this wonderful history, just after the inauguration. The day was dark and gloomy; a drizling rain pene-   188      THE GREAT-'P-UP. trated the covering of the unhappy wights com- pelled to peregrinate the streets. A bright fire was in our stove, and drawing our chair closer to enjoy the warmth, we sat ourself down to ruminate. The heavy beating of the rain upon the windows at length disposed us to take a nap, so stretching ourself upon the table, and placing a pile of papers under our head to serve for a pillow, we inconti- nently wandered off into the regions of forgetful- ness.  We were awakened by a tremendous thump oil the table, and a stentorian "hello!"Starting up and digging our knuckles into our eyes, we gazed at the intruder. There, within three feet of us, stood what at first sight we took to be the Right Honor- able the Governor of the Infernal Regions, but what after closer inspection resolved into a man, and a terribly used-up one too. He was, as near as we could judge, six feet six inches in stature-- one of his eyes appeared to have been dug out with a claw-hammer-not a vestige of his nose could be discovered-he was nearly totally bald-limped- and was destitute of one ear. Supposing him to be the very respectable and much visited personage before mentioned, our next glance was directed to the tongs, which we designed to employ in prac- tising upon him a la St. Dunstan. (By the by, we forgot that ow man did not rejoice in that useful   THE aGEAT USED-UP.     139 appendage to the human face divine).  Upon second thoughts, however, we concluded that, bat- tered as he was, he was more than a match for us, and contented ourself with staring at him. Having subjected himself for some five minutes in silence to our examination, he no doubt imagined that it was time to commence operations, so he opened his capacious jaws, and proceeded in a calm tone to electrify us. "Well, whatthe devil's the matter?" As soon as we could recover from our astonish- ment we replied to his interrogatory. "Oh, nothing-nothing-nothing at all is the matter." "You're the editor of the paper that's printed next door, ain't you? v' "Yes, sir, we edit it for the present." "Well, I'm on a little business here to-day. Ter- rible muddy and wet, ain't it?" "Very wet, indeed. There is a chair-will you sit down?"  "Thankee. Don't care much if I 'do. You never have nothing to drink here, do you?" "No-nothing." "That's awful. But never mind, it'll not rain forever. And now I think on't, I reckon you won't mind it if I take off my coat and hang it up here by the fire to dry. It's wet clean through."   "O      THE GREAT USED-UP. We perceived when he opened his mouth that nearly all of his teeth had taken their departure from his head. This was another cause of astonish- ment. Now that our terror had left us, it was with the utmost difficulty that we could repress- a smile at the appearance of this queer biped. With a diabolical grin he divested his person of his coat, which he hung on the back of a chair to dry. "Are you from the country?" we inquired. "Why, yes, I mought say that I was, seein' as how thar's not a shed or house in two mile of me. I'm on a voyage to Washington arter an offiss. I've heerd say sence I come in town that you've got a power of influence in these parts, so I reckon- ed I'd call on you about the business. I hain't had nothin' to eat sence I started from home yisterday mornin', and I hain't got but mighty little money neither. I must have it; thar ain't no two ways about it." ' "What office do you desire to obtain?" "Why, I'll tell you how it was, eggzackly. I live down at Swamptown when I'm at home, but this last year I've bin a livin' at old 'Squire Jack Mug- gins'. The old feller keeps a doggery at Hell Gate. Well, you see I'm a member of three vigilance committees, and a real out-and-outer for the party. I run for the Giniral Assemblage last year, and should ha' got 'lected if Joe Maddox hadn't got   TEE GICEAT USED-UP.     141 thirteen more votes than I got-d-n him! I've worked like blazes to git my candidate elected, and I'll be etarnally flusterated if I oughtn't to git some rewards. Old Muggins belongs to my party too, and he's a justice of the peace. His daughter is jest one of the purtiest lumps of humanity that ever handed a glass of whiskey over a counter. I did think of axin' her old dad to let me have her, but now if I git the offiss I'll jest be consumedly d-d if I do anything of the kind. Did I ever tell you how she served Tom Brown, old Mrs. Didd's step-son    "No." ' ! "Well, it was jest so. Tom was jest-but busi- ness afore pleasure, as the 'Squire sez. Thar's a young lawyer down at Hell Gate named Stidds. Mayhap you know him. Eh, Mister?" "Can't say that we do." "You don't, hey?  Well, he drawed up this dockyment, or pertition as he calls it. I'm a gwine to give it to the President with my own hands. I want you to sign it. You'll see what it is when you read it." So saying he produced a crumpled sheet of fools- cap from his old leather pocket-book, and laid it before us. As the document was rather a curious one, we preserved a copy for the benefit of our readers.  "2   .  THE GREAT UTS-w P. "Petition of Peter Bailey to the President of the United States.-Respectable Sir-The under- signed, one a merchant and the other a member of the church, most respectfully represent to your honor that the petitioner, Peter Bailey, is quite worthy of any office you may be graciously pleased to bestow upon him. We are of the opinion that he would do the greatest honor to his country in any capacity. He is a man of character; he don't owe anybody. If you can get him  appointed Minister to England, you would much oblige us by so doing. To be sure he couldn't preach much after he got there, but he is a horse in a fight, and if what he said should be disputed, he would first ask John Bull where he got his manners, and then favor him with a wind-extractor. He did all he could possibly do to get you elected, and it is no more than fair for you to give him an office. The following is what he has suffered for you: "Two fingers bitten from his right hand in a fight with Joe Brown. "His thumb blown from his left hand by the bursting of a gun while celebrating the success of the party. "One eye gouged out in a fight with Jack Smith. "His nose and one ear bit off in a fight with Bill Johnson.   THE GREAT USED-UP.     1a' "The toes of hisNleft foot frost-bitten while lying out one night. "Eight of his front teeth knocked down his throat in a fight with Sam Green. "All his hair pulled from his head in a fight with Jim Shaw. "In the foregoing scrimmages four new hats, two waistcoats not much worn, three pairs of pantaloons and five coats were torn to everlasting smash. "Hoping you will hearken to the voice of two of your independent supporters, we are your very obedient servants, "PAUL PEABODY, "SIMON SMALWITT. "I sartefy that them 2 men as put their fist to a pertishion to git me an offiss, old Peabody an Smal- litt are very respecktabble men.  PETER X BAILEY." Mark.  "Now," observed Mr. Bailey when we returned him the document, "I want you to sartify to my respecktability. You can copy from the sartifekit I writ for Smalwitt and Peabody. I didn't com- pose nor write it neither, but my darter Molly, who went to school nine quarters to Mr. Swinetax,.she writ it for me, and arter she writ it I made that scrape you see thar, for a mark. I never had no :              lt[     THE GREAT' USED-UP. larnm' myself except what I got myself; I's a self taught man, and ef you please you kin put that down too, in your sartifekit. It'll show my genus. I'm bound to have an cffiss-my claims are ob- leeged to be rispeckted. I'll not put up with any little petty thing, neither; I'll have somethin' worth my notiss." "Well, Mr. Bailey, no doubt you are fully quali- fied to perform the duties of an office, but it is ex- tremely probable that we have already a Minister at:the Court of St. James." "Court of St. Jeemes! who the h--ll said any- thing about hinm I want to go to a place they call London, away over in England, to tell the queen that some of our people kin do some things as well as others. It won't do for her to give me any jaw when I git thar, for if I stand it I'll be cussed. I'll sarve her the way Jim Dobbins' wife sarved him." "And how was that?" "Why, you see, Jim married old Tom Sprawley's darter Jinny, and everybody knew that she was the devil, and sure enough she turned out to be nothin' else. Jim took her home, and for about a month everything went on well enough except that she would git drunk reg'lar six times a week. Ai last she got so infernal bad that Jim told her that he'd be dod darned if he could stand it at all no- how. So one day, when she'd bin turnin' down the   THE GREAT USED-UP.     145 old rye pretty rapid, Jim told her to leave. She riz then, and jest took Jim by the nape of his neck and the seat of his breeches, and pitched him into the well. That come nigh finishing him, and if it hadn't bin for a wagoner who was drivin' by at the time who pulled him out, he'd a bin drowned in short order. And that's the way I'll sarve Queen Victory if she gives me any sarse. D-d if I don't! Come, let's have that sartifekit." ' Why, Mr. Bailey, from the very little of your company we have enjoyed, and the meagre oppor tunity we have had of discovering where your genius lies, we should feel ourselves bound to de cline the honor of certifying to your respectability and capacity. But as you have every appearance of an honest and badly injured man, and as you assert so positively that you are compelled to have an office of some description, we will not object to favoring you with our opinion of your merits. But we do it with this provision, that when you drop along this way again you will call upon us and let us know what success your petition received. Will you do this?2" "Oh, sartin. Rot it, I'd go through fire and water for a gentleman that has done me a good turn. If I wouldn't I'll be cussed. Let's have the dockyment."  In a moment we handed him the following: 7    "6     THE GREAT USED-UP. "We certify that we have carefully read the petition of Paul Peabody and Simon Smalwitt, Esqrs., respecting Mr. Peter Bailey, and are of opinion that the said Peter is extremely anxious to obtain a situation. We also believe that he has suffered considerably, and think it no more than right that the President of the United States should bestow upon said Peter a pair of shoes and a hat, provided said President has any to spare." "There, Mr. Bailey, is your certificate." "But you hain't signed it, my friend-you hain't signed it." "Oh, that makes not the smallest difference in the world. The President knows our handwriting perfectly well." "He does, does he? Then you've had dealins with him afore a?" "Often." "Well, I'll give you a call sartin when I come along back." Our visitor now proceeded to envelope his person in his outer garment, and shaking our hand with a "good mornin',' took his departure, not for the "promised land," but for the land of promises. T Two months passed away, and of Mr. Pete}   THE GREAT USED-UP.     147' Bailey we heard nothing. We had begun to des- pair of ever again beholding the nearly obliterated countenance of that worthy. But we were disappointed-Mr. Bailey did re- turn. He was a "sight," though, when he did come. His covering could have been dignified with no higher designation than rags-his vest had wholly disappeared-two strings were pressed into his service for suspenders-the rim of his hat could not be discovered on the closest examination, and his toes- peeped from their rough covering as if en- gaged in ascertaining what was in course of prose- cution in the outer world. To judge from the quan-- tity of hair that bristldd on his face, one would have thought that the price of a razor overba- lanced the contents of his purse, which was the fact. "Well, Mister," he exclaimed, flinging himself into a chair with an air of utter desperation, "I'm defunct! I am, by gosh!" ' Then you met with no success this trip, Mr. Bailey?" we inquired. "Success! D-n it, sir, my biler's busted, and no mistake! I'm ruther of the opinion that I've seen the elephant! Here I be, come a'most all the way from Washington a foot. / I had to sell my hoss-he was a blooded nag, and I hated like pizen to let him go, but I was actilly obleeged to do one of two things, either sell Aim or put the country to   "8      TIE GREAT USED-UP. the expense of lmurying me.-I kalkilate I didn't have much choice, did I?" "Should think not." "Well. Arter I dug from this place I got on pretty well, considerin'. When I got to Washing- ton I found the village crammed and jammed full of men arter offises like myself. I thought as how it never would do nohow for a chap that expected anything to acknolledge that he was a poor devil, so I scrabbled for a hotel-the best in the place- got my hoss put up and foddered, and walked out to find out whar the President's shingle stuck out. Everybody I seed a'most I axed to show me whar the old boy lived, but d-1 a bit did they answer at all, only jest laughing in my face and travelling on. Thinks I to myself, this is a- cussed queer way of showing perliteness anyhow; I'm a free and inder- pendent citizen of the country, and cuss me if I stand it. So the next chap that haw-hawed when I axed him, I jest requested to wait a minit and I'd break his head. I was pulling off my coat to curry himn down, when a pastle of folks come up whar we was and said that wouldn't do nohow, and reckoned I'd better absquat. I offered to fight 'em all, one down t'other come on, for a dollar, but they backed out, so arter givin em all a good cus- sin' I kept ahead on my hunt for the President. Directly I met a feller in a blue coat with a stand-   THE GREAT TSED-1P.     149 up collar and brass buttons. Says I, ' (ister, wlar might the President be jest immediately about now? ' He seed, I guess, that I warn't acquainted considerable with the ways of the village, so says he, mighty civil, 'What do you want with the Pre- sident, my good man?' Then I told him all about the matter. He kinder smiled out of the corners of his mouth, and says he, 'Why, my friend, that is wholly impossible, somebody has sent you on a wild goose chase. Go home and think no more about it. That offiss is altogether too high to be got easy.' That sorter stirred me up. 'Well,' says I, 'what offiss do you reckon I could get a hold on a' Well, he ruther shook his head, took a thun- derin' wad of the Virginny weed, and then says he, 'Why, sir, I b'lieve nearly all the offisses of government are either filled up or about to be filled up, so you see thar is no chance for you here.' I got lower and lower all the time, until at last says I, 'I wonder if I was to ax him if he wouldn't turn out our post-master, Jack Gubbins, and put me in his place?' He said he reckoned not. 'D-n it, Mister,' says I, 'is thar anything I can git? He said no. 'Well, then,' says I agin, my cuss on the whole gang! d-n 'em all!' I started back for the hotel, stayed thar all night, and in the mornin' got up to try 'em once more. But every offiss I axed for had better men, they said, to fil it.   150     THE GREAT USED-UP. At last I didn't have a red cent, so I was obleeged to sell my nag to get money enough to come home with. Some of the way I worked, and some 1 begged, and when I put my foot in Swamptown may the devil catch me if I ever agin start on sich an errand." "Did you present your petition?" "Oh, yes, but they only laughed-they did, the vagabonds! And when I showed 'em your sartife- kit they laughed worse than ever. But I'm very much obleeged to you, though. You did your best." Mr. Bailey now went into a fit of meditation. He was evidently lamenting the extreme hardness of his case. For more than an hQuor he sat without interruption. Our hour for closing the office ar- rived, but he gave no indications of moving. We looked in his face and discovered that he was fast asleep. "Come, get up!" we shouted in his ear. He started up. "Oh, I'd forgotten all about whar I was," he exclaimed. "A'lmost dark, ain't it Going to shet up, eh? Well, Mister, here's my hand. I'm used-up-no two ways about it. Good bye." Mr. Bailey departed, and from that day to this we have neither seen nor heard anything more of the Office-Seeker.    ICHABOD ICICLE; THE MAN WHO ALWAYS KEPT COOL. YES, he would, he would keep cool, in spite of fate. In spite of fate, did I say? Why, that was his fate -he was fated to keep cool. You would stand fully as great a chance of exciting himn by anything you might say or do, as you would of exciting a stone. Nothing had any effect on Ichabod Icicle -not the slightest. lie ought not to have been permitted to first see the light of day in the United States-to such a spirit as his Greenland could not be too congenial. It's of no use to write a long rig- marole about Ichabod Icicle. An idea of his whole character can be well conveyed in a very few words-yes, in three words-nothing troubled him. See him when you would-at times when every- body else was in a perfect rage of excitement, in a fever of fury, you would only see him as cool as a cucumber. He had one maxim, that was in reality a sole idea with him, for he never gave any evidence of being acquainted with any other, and that maxim was, "Keep cool!"   That moral,   152      ICHABOD ICICLE. worthy of the most transcendental philosophy, was ever at his tongue's end, and would roll out of his mouth on any and the slightest occasion. He was a curiosity-Ichabod Icile--and he was a curiosity for two reasons. The first was that he was a small man, and we all know (or, at least, would have thought that we knew, had not he given the assertion the point blank lie) that it is a general custom v$ith small men to be very pas- sionate. But Ichabod was not one of your little chaps that fly in a passion and shake their heads almost off at every little disagreeable circum- stance that may happen to arise. He was as meth- odical as a mule, and somewhere about three times  as stubborn. In fact, if he once said he was going to do anything, it might be looked upon as already done, for done it would be if in the power of hu- man accomplishment. The second reason was his evrelasting coolness, of which we have already writ- ten in the commencement of this sketch. He was a stoic. Socrates couldn't hold a candle to him-a thousand Xantippes flung into one, and that one his inseparable companion, could not have occasioned him to deviate one jot or tittle from his regular course. All the sores of Job, and all the sores of everybody else from the days of Job down to the present, collected into one mammoth sore and stuck upon him, would not have put him   IOA2BOD IOILE.      158 out in the least degree. He would have borne his sufferings like a martyr, and you would never have heard him utter the most insignificant complaint, or manifest the slightest intention of lamenting his situation. -Where he was horn is a matter of no conse- quence to the generality of readers, but as there may be among them some in whose bosoms this sketch will excite an intense desire to pry into his history farther than we .consider ourself at liberty to pry into it, we will state that an inconsiderable village in one of the Southern states has the honor of being his birth-place. Perhaps the very house in which he uttered his first squall may be in ex- istence-if such should happen to be the fact we have but little doubt that it would prove fully as good a speculation as the veritable cabin of Shak- speare. It is a pity that the place of his birth is so well known, for were this not the case, every Southern city would dispute the honor, as the seven cities of Greece are said to have done in the re- markable case of Homer. However, all the squab- bling in the world about where he was born could not add an iota to his fame. That is placed on a pedestal, a pinnacle, a-ta- oh! words are too weak! His respected parents, though in no degree re- lated to that class of the world which boasts of q*   t4    ITrCOHASOD ICIOcLE having had Croesus for its chief ornament, were possessed of a sufficiency of this world's goods to give their only son and heir a respectable education. And in writing of-the education of Master Ichabod, we desire to be distinctly understood as averring that he in no way owed his remarkable coolness to the example or instructions of the pedagogue who flourished the birch daily before his eyes. Did his instructor, to use his own expression, "frail" him once, twice, or even on some extraordinary occa- sions thrice, Master Ichabod acted up to the maxim which had been ere that early period too deeply implanted in his bosom to be ever rooted out-he kept cool. And this only aggravated his offence, for what was solely his nature was account- ed nothing but stubborness. He couldn't help it any more than any other youngster could help cry- ing. Did one of his schoolmates fill his ears with some terrible tale of wrong committed, and, gasp- ing, point to some wound received in bloody fray, -the only consolation he received was, "keep cool!" He kept cool himself, and doubtless con- jectured it to be his duty to advise his friends to keep cool likewise. He didn't get his -coolness from his parents, by any means. Mr. Icicle, senior, was sharp and sour -indeed, so very sharp and sour that he was by the unanimous consent of the villagers nicknamed    ICHABOD ICICLE.   155   "the crab-apple'  It would have puckered up your mouth to have seen him. Mrs. Icicle was a very good woman in her way, but she was afflicted with an almost intolerably cross disposition. So the fact is about three times as plain as daylight that Ichabod didn't get his coolness from either his father's or his mother's side of the house. Well, Ichabod grew up to manhood. Did he shed his coolness as a snake sheds his skin? By no means; it stuck to him like the shirt of Nessus; it was one of the things never to be got rid of. And when we come to think of it-.when we come to comprehend the matter in every possible way, we cannot for the life of us perceive why he should have wished to get rid of it. We do not know that he did, but if he had so desired, we should be un- der the necessity of giving him credit for a much smaller share of intelligence than we think he really possessed. What was to be made of him? for a profession he must have. It would never do in the world to set him to preaching, for preachers must sometimes warm themselves with their sub- ject to produce a good effect on the sinful minds of their hearers. That employment, then, was en- tirely out of the question. They couldn't make a doctor of him, for Ichabod was too cool to hurry one peg faster than his customary slow walk, even if the lives of forty patients positively de-    6       ICHABOD IICCLE. pended on his increasing his speed. Nothing then was left to him but the law. The same objection might have been urged here that was urged in the case of the minister, but his parents consoled themselves with the reflection that he would never get a case, so it didn't make much difference. But they were mistaken, even when they thought themselves certain. Ichabod went to work on Blackstone and Coke like a hero, passed his examination with infinite credit, and, mirabile dictu! was employed by a fellow charged with the crime of perjury three days after he had nailed up his shingle. Then case was called, and Ichabod Icicle arose to make his maiden speech-and such a speech! He began at nine o'clock in the morn- ing. He divided the case into twenty-six grand divisions, and each grand division into fifteen sub- divisions. What was the secret of all this capacity for talking? He kept cool! He didn't jump up in confusion, stammer a few unconnected words, and drop into his seat. No, not he! He went at it as he would have gone to a day's work, and was himself fully satisfied with his labors, though the judge, sheriff and jury were too securely locked in the arms of Morpheus after the first five hours to appreciate the whole speech. As for the specta- tors, t I y left before he had concluded the sixth grand division. As he  sat down he looked   IOHABOD ICIOLE.   157   towards the prisoner's dock, certain that there was one too much interested to forget himself as the rest had done, but the prisoner was fast asleep too! He had done his duty in making the de- fence-all that could possibly have been required of him by the most exacting client; but here was an opportunity too good to be lost. He softlyap- proached the prisoner, shook him awake, and ad- vised him to shake the dust from his pedals and clear out; which sage advice--better in his situation than a hundred speeches, even were they double the length of the one just finished-was instan- taneously followed by the prisoner, who made tracks, and was naer heard of afterwards.  That speech finished Mr. Ichabod Icicle's busi- ness in the law line. He went home and pulled down his shingle. But he kept cool!-no sort of reverses or disagreeabilities could keep him from keeping cool, though he didn't have many reverses to contend with, for he was a singularly lucky fellow. After he had managed his first and last case, he resolved to go into the mercantile line. He did so, and hired him  a first-rate clerk, an honorable gentleman who conferred his invaluable services on Mr. Icicle for a very moderate compen- sation, and ran away with everything he could lay his hands on in the space of three months. Did Ichabod fly into a passion and race in pursuit of    158      IOHBOD ICICLE. the offender? Not at all! He kept cool and stayed at home. If we were to attempt to enter into a complete description of Ichabod's character; to recount one tenth of the instances in which he showed himself sincere in the observance of his great maxim, we should be compelled to resign all hope of ever being able to accomplish any other business during the continuance of our natural life. The labors of Hercules would sink into utter insignificance along- side of those labors necessary to present his com- plete history. We must, however, force ourself to give one more example before we lay down our pen. Ichabod's house caught fire. He stobd some hundred yards from the burning building, gazing on the scene of destruction. He beheld the efforts of the village firemen, with their little engine, to preserve his property, with a countenance unmoved. It was July. While everyone else was working and sweating, not a drop of perspiration appeared upon his brow. The exertions of the firemen tri- umphed, and Ichabod's property was saved. He walked up to one who had made himself conspicu- ous in his endeavors to arrest the progress of the devouring element, and whose face was of the color of the sun when he rises. Says Ichabod, "My friend, keep cool!"That was too much-   ICHAOD IOICL.       159 poor human nature couldn't stand it. The fireman knocked Ichabod down. But he picked himself up, and without the slightest expression of anger or grief on his visage, walked away, though he was considerably heavier than the fireman, and could have knocked him into the middle of the next week with but one blow. Ichabod died at last. He sunk into the grave full of years. Sorrowfully, the villagers followed his remains to their final resting-place. A meet- ing was called, and it was unanimously resolved that a monument should be erected above him. The parson wrote the inscription, and the brick- layer carved it. That inscription deserves to be recorded, and it shall be: HERE LIES ICHABOD ICICLE, THE MAN WHO ALWAYS KEPT COOL.   BLOOD! HAI ! The sun is obscured by clouds of deepest black- the deep-toned thunder rolls along the vaulted sky --the lightning flashes with intense ardor. The air is impregnated with a horrible smell of brim- stone. Look! We are standing on a ledge of rock. At our feet is stretched a wide expanse of grassy plain upon which the foot of man has seldom trod. The hairy, long-maned terrific buffalo is grazing calmly and peacefully in the far distance-just below us rove untrammelled the tame kine belonging to the owner of the little cottage, the smoke from whose roof curls gracefully above the summits of those sturdy oaks. We are in the wilderness! A wilderness of America one hundred years ago! But man is here t   - sLOOD!       161 Yes, the foot of man has trod these wilds! He has reared, afar from his usual haunts, an unpre- tending habitation. He has retired from the places he once joyfully filled to the solitude of the un- tracked wilderness! Hark again! The thunder roars louder! the lightning flashes fiercer! the kine moan more mournfully! the buffalo starts in greater affright! all nature in this particular portion of the country for many miles round is convulsed, and groans in unprecedented agony! Torrents of rain begin their descent to the bosom of the earth! Look again! A single horseman comes over the plain. He is dressed in pants very roughly made of the skin of a deer, through which his feet protrude. Those feet are covered with heavy boots. A jacket, manufactured of a material with 'which we are compelled to confess ourself totally unacquainted, encases his upper extremities. -A broad-brimmed hat crowns his head and completes the catalogue of his wearing apparel. It is possible he may have a shirt and vest on, but his jacket is buttoned closely up to his chin, so that we could not, in justice to our conscience, safely depose that he is possessed of two articles so much esteemed in later days.   1-62        BLOOD! Hark once more!  The voice of the single horseman, as he rides with the speed of the wind, is heard above all the tremendous roaring of the storm! He speaks but two words, but those two words he repeats, in the meantime shaking his fist madly! ( Cuss him! cuss him!" Look once more! The single horseman ceases his headlong speed at the door of the cottage. He dismounts and kicks heavily against the door. It opens. The head of a man pops out. He questions the horseman. "What do you want " "Sir," replied the horseman, '"I have been deeply, grievously and irremediably wronged! Last night a fiend in human shape, calling himself a man, came to my house in a coach and four, and robbed me of my daughter! I ask you (and I want a categorical response), by all your hopes of happiness here, and of salvation hereafter, have the wretched pair passed this way?" "Don't know!" was the churlish reply of the owner of the cottage, as he slammed the door in the horseman's countenance. The horseman again mounted his gallant steed. Determination was portrayed in every line of his visage. He rode like the avant-courier of a whirl- wind through the forest -   The avenger is behind! And through the giant trees, bending low be- neath the blast, comes a mournful voice, seeming to cry- "BLOOD!" Behold! A carriage and four fly along the edge of a dense forest! The driver ever and anon applies the lash emphatically to the backs of the panting steeds! They are endowed with feeling, and show conclusively that they understand the signal by in- creasing their already terrific speed! On!. on! they fly with the swiftness of newly emancipated birds, or of a biped who is conscious that the sheriff with his posse comitatis is behind! Trees, rocks, and various other things peculiar to woody regions of the country, rush by. On! on! on! "Et us look inside. What do we see  On the back seat in the right hand corner sits a man of some thirty-five years of age. That he has been supereminently beautiful in his youthful days, no one possessed of the smallest particle of discrimi- nation can doubt,;for although his countenance bears impressed upon it the footsteps of time--although the   164 t     :BLOOD! end of his nasal promontory has disappeared, pro- bably in some street fght-although one of his ears has, at some previous period, taken its departure from his head without leaving the smallest trace of its having ever existed; and although he has lost his left eye and six or eight of his front teeth, yet to admirers of his class of features he would still appear positively handsome. His dress is of that peculiarstyle known inAhefashionable world as seedy. Reclining upon the other seat, with her head gently reposing in his lap, is a maiden of thirty years. Nothing less graceful and dignified than the pencil of a Sully could begin to do her the meanest sort of justice. Our feeble pen would shed its last-drop of ink in the attempt to place her adequately before our r eders-but in vain! The beauty of the being before us is of that character which intoxicates the brain and renders words ut- terly powerless! Let us pause!         -   On! on! on! "Dearest Josey," murmured the fair maiden in a low voice, the music of which showed plainly that she would have attained high distinction as a street crier of wares--"Dearest Josey, I fear, oh! I fear the rage of my pa when he finds out that   BLOOD         165 I've gone and run away! Oh, Josey, dear, I fear the rage of my pa! " "Calm yourself, sweet Sukey," was the answer of the gentleman, in a soothing tone, " am Inot here? Sooner than I would resign thee I would heroically place my little finger on the headsman's block! By the storm now raging above us, and by the powers of earth and air, I swear never to de- sert thee, come weal or come wo! A few short hours, and we shall reach a place where we can be united forever- in Hymen's silken chain.  But I don't think Jack is driving with sufficient rapidity. Let me stir him up!" He reaches from the window of the carriage and speaks to the driver. " Driver ! on! faster! If we get to Squamville without being overtaken, I'll give you a dollar and a drink!" The driver jumps on his seat for joy! A dollar and a drink!  He plies the lash with renewed vigor! They are going like a streak! On! on! on! But alas and alackaday! the inmates of the car- riage hear the furious galloping of a horse behind! The sound approaches! The maiden gives one quick glance at the horsemai from the window, and Cafter speaking just two words, shrieks with horror, and falls back insensible I   16B        BLOOD! "MZy X at-her!!h The driver swears, whips and yells, but in vain! One brief moment, and the horseman is at the car- riage-another, and the driver falls from his seat, dead, shot in the eye with a pistol ball! The carriage stops. The horseman approaches the door. "Joseph Green," he said, in an awful tone, "what have you done with my daughter?" "She is here, tyrannical parent!" observed the man in the carriage. "Come forth, villain!" shouts the incensed father, "and defend. thyself! Here, amid the storm of elements, this day and this hour, thou diest like a dog!" "Thou liest! With this'good'sword will I meet thee, and God defend the right!" The gentleman gets out and draws his toasting iron! They fight! Long and desperate is the struggle--quick and fierce is the clashing of swords! For somewhere about two hours and a half. they combat with the resolution of despair! It is at an end!  The lover falls! The enraged parent has split his skull spang to his chin!   BLOOD!         167 One moment the victor Stands gazing at his van- quished foe. The next, he slowly draws the other pistol from his pocket, sticks the muzzle into his ear, and cuts loose. He drops! The entire contents of his brain-pan are blown out! And where is the carriage? 6 The horses, having taken fright at the horrible clashing of swords, have run and jumped off the nearest precipice, which happens to be a little more than twelve hundred feet high. Horses, carriage and maiden are smashed! Look for the last time! In the forest lie three dead bodies- The Father, the Lover, the Driver! At the foot of the rocks lie five dead bodies- The Maiden and four horses! Eight! And again the voice comes mournfully through the trees, crying-- "BLOOD!" THE END.    
         
       
   
