
    ----CITATION----
        Steele, Rowena Granice.. Leonnie St. James, or, The Suicide's Curse .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7909
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Leonnie St. James, or, The suicide's curse 
            
               AY.

/

REPRODUCED FROM- THE COPY IN THE
HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LIBRARY

it
-4

FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION

LEONN1IE ST. JAME8;                           I
OR
C4
c4
c4
o
~ ROWIA &amp;RNICB                 TI, -     Im
AUThiOR OF "THlE FAMILY GEM," "VICTIMS OF FATE," "CAMO-
RIE; OR, THE KANAKA GIRL'S REVENGE," "THE EARLY
DOOMED," "LIGHTS AND SHADOWS IN THE LIFE -OF
4 THlE WIDOW PLATT," AND OTHER POPULAR
DOMESTIC STORIES.
AUBURN, CAL.
PRINTED AT THE UNION ADVOCATIE OFFICIAL
b 1862.

1AP4                                                    /

S44

/

15

into,
V;
NMI
I'T


I.

LE NNIfE T JAMES;
OR,
W RIT T EN BY
ROWEINA 6RANICE STEELE19

AUTHOR OF "THE FAMILY CEM," "VICTIMS O iFATE," "CAMO-
M:E OR, THE KANAKA GIRL'S REVENGE," "THE EARLY
DOOMED," "LIGHTS AND SHADOWS IN THE LIFE OF
THE WIDOW PLATT," AND OTHER POPULAR
DOMESTIC STORIES.
AUBURN, CAL.
PRINTED AT TIIE UNION ADVOCATE OFFICE.
1862,

9

I

i lial
1  W-aw
DWI .7!
Vq*

Y-0 I I
hl , 60 -A',"A 4 41000
A,
m-   woo
CAN
"IA
9p a
14
a          a   nos,
jb
1                    son


PREFACE, BY THE AUTHORESS.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year of our Lord 1862, by
ROWENA-GRANICE STEELE,
in the Clerk's Office of the United States District Court for the Northern District
of'"the State of California.

In placing this little volume before the puWblic I have endeavored-as in. the-
stories hitherto written by me-to bring a moral to' bear upon it; and if
my writings are at all deserving, their sole merit lies in their simplicity. I1aving,
m ingled much with the world,  with the different classes of which it is com-
posed, I usually draw each e  acter fromreal life. When very young, I acted
as tract distributor im the great city of New York. To me this occupation was a
most pleasing one; for, being naturally of a communicative disposition, -I im-
parted freely the history of my own life, and was often repaid by that of t
listener in return. I also draw many truths a'nd conclusions from ny own
4cekered and eventful life; especially when speaking of home-of a kind7
loving mother, and pure, gentle, affectionate, confiding sisters-trials and strug-
(de- with pride and poverty; these.ae old,. familiar scenes, and cling to me
through all the vicimsitudes of life.
1 have frequently heard-he renrk thar t an authoress," or, "blue-stocking,
ai they sometimes call us, "should be shunned as a wife; that they are, as a
general thing, slovernly and idle in their habits; " but-this is a mistaken.notion,
I have had the pleasure of meeting Miss Grace Greenwood, Miss Jane Porter,
Fanny Fern, and a number of other authoresses of greater or less celebrity, and
I found them plain, neat, tidy, unpretending women, pleasing and lady-like in
eonversation- and entirely free f:om  what is called "strong-mindedness" in
women. As for myself, every piece I have written, (and they number about
sixty,) was composed while engaged in domestic affairs. 'I have often laid down
the dish-towel to take up my pen for the purpose of noting down an idea.; and
at my leisure would gather up these disconnectedrideas ; and then, mmo1ing

lip,

I

Aso
&amp;M noon,
01" US,
on"TOW

11111111 lifill
1. olp"'T,


71 ii RI'l-I,

my real characters around me, weave them together, as we do the different
colored flowers, when forming them into a boquet.
The circumstances of the following story are true; that is, the suicide did
actually take place on the New Jersey shore, opposite the City of New York.
The eveMt, also the dreadful curse, I have 'no doubt, can be found upon the pages
of old fles'of the New York HERALD, SUN, TRIBUNE, and other papdrs published
about the year 1837-8.
Hoping that this little offering will meet the approbation'of an intelligent
public, it is submitted to its perusal with the desire that it will receive a general
and critical examination,                                    R. G. S.

LEONNIE ST CRAMES.
OR,
THE SUICIDE'S CURSE,

SCIIAPTER L

4Cast my heart's gold intothe furnace flame,
And, if it come -not thence refin'd and pure,
I'll be a bankrupt to thy hope, and heaven
Shall shut its gates on me!"
"And must you really go to-morrow, Nelson?" said Carrie- Dean,
in a half ehildish voice, as if she would have it otherwise; "and must
you really go?"
"I must," answered the young man to whom these- words were
addressed in such tender and loving tones. "To-morrow, you know,
(arrie, I am twenty-one, and, as I have often told you, dearest, up to
this moment, I am entirely ignorant of my parents and all circumstances
connected with them-of my birth, their death or desertion, or, of any
relative near or distant. My first recollections are of being obliged to
takc a little basket on my arm and call at the basement doors of the
rich and ask for cold vivtuals, through the pinching frosts and beating
Ftoris of winter, and the scorching suns of summer; then retaining
to the0 lite gloomy, underground room, and receiving a kiis and warmv

IP

/

(

7  -+1~-~-                          live-


7

LEONNIE ST. JAMES; OR, THE SUICIDES CURSE
embrace from  Mrs. Field, who 'was always over-the wash-tub, or
ironing-table, when "the plague rheumathz," as she elled it, would
permit her to stand. I once heard her say, as I sat crying in one corner,
with a cold potato in my hand: 'Poor child, it is a shame that you
should live so, and suffer with a poor old w~ooman like me, when he is
surrounded with wealth and luxury.' "
"Who, Aunty?" Ieagerly exclaimed; who do you mean ; what he?"
" Did I say he?  Imeant th, 'ie rich nen, rho keep bigstores.
and live in brick houses; you are as good as their children."
" I looked at her for a, moment ; a new thought entered my childish
brain, and I exclaimed: 'Who am I, Aunty? Did I ever have a
father and mother?'"
" For a moment she was silent. She stirred the fire; then throwing
a few shavings upon the coals; said: - Nelsie, the chips are almost
gone, and if you will go to the-ship'yard and get a basket full, I'llcook
the nice little piece of corn-beef the lady gave you yesterday,. and some
cabbage too.'"
"I took the basket and left the house without murmuring my usnal
childish "excuses.  That' thought, that, strange thought-who am
I?'--still haunted my mind."
"I reached the ship-yard andbegan filling my basket with the -chips.
While thus engaged, a gentleman, holding a little boy about my own
age by the hand, passed through the yard. I heard the child say:
'Oh, father! see that poor little boy. Can't I give him nmy mittens:'
.fis hands must be cold. See," he continued, 'I can 'put mine in my
comforter,-or my pockets, but he has-to keep his in the cold all the
time.'"
"The gentleman approached me, and while the little 1)oy gave me
the mittens, he asked, in kindly tones: 'Who are you, my little man ?'"
" That was the question-' who was 1?' I-looked at him and answer-
ed: 'I don't know, sir ; my name is Nelson Wardell. I live with
aunty Field,. and she lives in the cellar kitchen of that old wooden
house there, around the corner.'
"' Is your mother and father dead??' continued the gentleman."
"'I guess so,' I replied."
Poor boy, poor boy,' he said, handing me a sixpence.  ie then
left me, saying-' You must- be a good boy'"            .
"1 looked at the sixpence and wished that I could buy aunty Field
a new dress with it i and after thinking of fifty things that I shoul
have liked to buy. I concluded to take it home and let aunty invest it

-~p                                                  haw -

LEONNIE ST. JAMES ; OR THE SUICIDE s CURSA.
according to her own judgment."
"Fron that morning I became a thinker, and have been thinking
ever since-' who am I ?
"To-morrow being my twenty-first birth-day, dear arri, the myte-
rious curtain is to be drawn which has so long concealed from me
all information of my birth and parentage. I expect," 'he said, with
a merry laugh, " I shall turn out the son of some exiled nobleman, heir
to an immense- fortune'; therefore, be patient, Catrie, dear, in a few
days you shall know all."
"I don't want to know more than I do," replied the, girl, in a half
loving, half pettish tone. "I've known you ten years; and I know
you to be a high-ninded, honest, industriousyoung man, whohas risen
from errand-boy to head-clerk in my father's establishment. And as
such, my father is willing that you should become his son-in-law. But
,should you turn out to be a prince or some great titled foreigner, you
might forget little Carrie Dean, who led you to her father's door one even-
ing when she found you, sick and cold, wandering about the streets of
Philadelphia, and marry a princess or lady of honor."
Nlson Wardell looked up. A cloud rested -apon his usually placid
countenance. At length he addressed his companion:
"Carrie, those last words of yours re the only unkind ones I ever
heard from your lips., To be reminded of my former . verty' and
wretchedness, and your kind and heavenly, act of charity, does not
wound my pride. But, to be suspected of fickleness; to he r you say.,
'you fear I should forget you amid good fortune,' are wods unworthy
of your noble, and usually high-minded nature, I will now be as un-
generous as yourself. Suppose that I should turn out to be the son of
dishonorable parents-that my father as a thief, a murderer,
spending a felon's life within the walls of a prison; or, that my m-
ther-"
That sacred word died upon his Tips andhe burst into teark.
Oh, stop ! stop! " cried Carrie, throwing her arms about his neck
and kissing his high, proul forehead; "I did not intend to wound your
sensitiv, nature.  Oh! I have done wrong  Forgive me, Nelson
forgive me! Oh do not sob so ! IIt was a little foolish pang of girlish
tealo usy which caused me to utter those unkind words. Oh, if you
will forgive me this time, such a feeling shall never again enter my
Nelson embraced her fondly and imprinted a kiss of forgiveness on
her tear-bedewed cheek ; but he could not speak. The davt had entered

I1

C

I'
-~                 .---     ---~-~-   -~           ~            -    -


I
0

"What's the matter, little bay? what makes you ory ? are you coldI
Put your hands in my nuff. Now, don't cry anyA mor.  Ma c you                          I
are hungry. I've got a nico little cako in my basket ;I'l give it toan 1d'
you."                                                                                me impa
Nelson remembered how those words sounded just as well as though                  1east, it
he had heard them but five minutes before. And then, l1ow little  a0 tthe assur
ie D~ean had ld him to hr father, and pload s sweetly for him to tak e            hlpls

E ONNZE ST. JAMfES OZ TI E SCtIDE ' CURSE.
the most tender part of the wound which, although concealed from the,              the poor li
world was. and had been rankling within his breast ever -since that                  Iere th
niemorable morning when that sudden thought of "who am I?" so                     a more hr
unoeremoniously entered his young mind.                                           Hewas su
Rut ore they parted on the following morning, all was forgiven,                   forth the h
They were again reconciled and happy in each other's love.                          But deare
Mr. Dean was not aware of the real object of Nelson 'Wardells visit               a long tim
to New York, He gave him letters of introduction to many of tih                     canvas wa
leading merchants of that city, and when he left, wished him a pleasant             Its lsIu
visit and a safe and speedy return.                                                 All-wiso (
As the cars left the depot, Carrie kissed her fingers to Nelson, and                Notwith
with her cambric handkerchief waved him an adieu. Nelson watched                   'Wardell,
her father's carriage until it was lost to his sight. Ie then fell into a           the blnkb
train of deep, thought The past, the present and the future became                  dark spec
the subjects of the working of his brain. Memory led him back to his                   Arrivi
early days of poverty and childish sorrow. Ile saw iinself again a                  IHe flun
poor, little, ragged beggar, sleeping the slep of innocence Upon h.i                      he
bed of straw, and feeding upon the iard crust of chaIy. He felt th                 hadlnot,  s
warm kisses of his former benefaetress upon his eheek, and ho thought                last five y
how her kind worda' had soothed his little heart when it had beent                 support.
wounded by the taints of tho wicked boys, who called him beggr;                         "Can
,then of the night he eutered the cars for Philadelphia with his little               "that ti
basket of pea-nuts; of his sufferings for three days and nights with                    "i is
cold and hungro in that strange Oity. Then a ray of suanshine cast its               aunty wh
light across the passing panorama of living pictures.  It was thle                    cme," h
memory of the third night after his arrivtd in that city of broadhrimts.             in a few d
ie was sitting upon the marble steps of a large mansion ; totrs were                 he attend
streaming down hiis cheeks; he was nearly famished with  ol and -tell me a]
hunger ; hia lttle heoart longed for the wretched home he hai left ini                  A shad
New York, and1 the kind voice of poor Mrs. Field ;and as the though t    .s. Neisoi
came to his mind that perhaps he wuld nevr see that kind  ried                       " Nels
again, he soh1bed aloud, Just then a little, snft hand tone hod  a~bd a                poet has
sweet, childish voice said : -

'u-,a =m,,

LEONNIE ST. JAMES; OR, TITE SUICIDE'S CURSE.       9
ttle boy to live with him.
o curtain dropped upon the picture of the past and rose upon
eight and beautiful seen*. Fortune had smiled upon him.
rrounded and respected by kind friends. Prosperity held
and of plenty, and' strewed his path with' seeds of wealth.
r than all was the lo-e of that truthful, confiding girl. For
e his mind dwelt upon the pleasing picture. The rest of the
s unpainted ; the future, alas! who can penetratethe future?
ires and its il are alike hidden from the human eye. The
3roator has so ordered it, and none can change Ihis law.
standing all the bright prospects which surrounded Nelson
a feeling of foreboding dvil would dart athwart his min( as
future arose before him. In vain he strove to drive forth the
tres ; they still remained to haunt him.
g in New York, he sought out the residence of Mrs. Field.
her in a neat, comfortable apartment. Ten years had passed
eft her to seek his fortune as a peddler of pea-nuts. True, she
,en him for all that time, but she had felt his bounty. For the
ears h had never failed to send her sufficient means for her
t be possible!" she exclaimed, after the first warm greeting,
s can be the unfortunate little Nelsie of ten years ago?"
indeed," cried Nelson; "and you are the same kind, good
o watched over me, and shared with me your last erust. But
e said, "my time is limited.  I must return to Philadelphia
lays, and I have a great deal of business,on hand which must
ed to before I leave; so I want you to fulfil your promise, and
11 the mystery connected with my birth and parentage.'
le of troubled thought stole oxer the old woman's countenance
n mado the above request.
On, she replied, "you are now happy and' contented; and the
said:
"When ignoranee is bliss
*Tis folly to bo wk"
Vret," she continued, "that I ever made you such a promise,
vise you to live an in igno~ratnCe. The secret you vould Ave
rt, would, in all probability', destroy your peace of mind. At
would cost you many an unhappy thought. Ile satisied with
'anee that your mother is dead; that she died while you were a
infant, and left you in my charge."

Noll
w Al                 'Y I 'AIN


" 7

10

K-

LEONNIE T, JAMES; OR, THE SUICIDE' S CURSE.

K
q

But my father!" cried Nelson; "what became of him? is he dead
too?"
" No; he still lives; or, at least, he was living,two years ago."
"M1y father alive, and I left a higgar! Coate, come, Mrs. Field, I
cannot be contet with this raeager explanation; I must insist that you
give me the history of my parents. You nnust be in posseSsion off all
the faets. At least do not refuse to tell me all you do know.. It is my
right to know, and your duty to tell me all. Whatever the cireum-
stances may be-no matter how-mortifyTing;,the knowledge of theii
cannot caue me more pIin than the suspense I sall live in the balance
of my life., by hang them withheld front me. Let what will come, I
shill always aet towards you a ason."
Mrs. Field drew a long sigh; then, without speaking she arose,
walked to an old chest of drawor, and from one of them drew forth a
little box.. She then unfastned a small key which hung with a bunch
at her side, and holding both box and key in her hand, addressed Nel-
som in the following words:
Dear Yelson, whatever may le the contents of that box, or whate-
Yer unhappiness it may oemsia you, do not blame me. The last
words your father er spoke to me, sihe said:   If he lives to be a man,
this box.' Ingiiing it t you, I butfulfil her dying request.
I do not know its conten A, a gla  I have had the key in liy posses-
sioa for nearly twenty years; and, I have never opened it ht once,
and then, for thme purp e of placing beneath its lid, a manuscript con
taining a rogh sketch of your Iot1ier' life, and ax brief account of her
leath. You were about two years old when she left it in my- charge.
Yes, yom were just tAo yeors old /kt day!" and the old woman shud-
dered as her memory reverted back to that fatal da--.

4F

7777

CXITEIh II.
a Imagination Framies events unknown
Swnd, fanatic shapes M ihideous rui;
And what it fears creates
Nelson reached forth his hand and took the myster ionso Better
hald it been for himi had that article been destroyed by fire'Or fodt4
to have fallen into his hands. But fate must be satisfied
W retchedessi and-misery stood withgrim and ghatly smile to laim
th.r ictim  The angels of love, peace and happiness fluttered-around
their vhiesunord-" IHeld iNels61n Wardell, atnd
on trembling wings, and whispere-"    -l ,locen      bneathis i
op1en not the bo. Let the mysterious past rJinckecd bed
lid, and joy and happiness will light your pathway through a long he
Prosperous life. Open it, and misery and destruction await you. The
vase which holds your future hopes will be dashed to the ground. The
roses of love will turn pale, their beauty  wit'er, and their fragrance
perish."-                      IIhadtebeashapldte
fie heeded not their warnings. His hand trembled as he applied the
kev. The next moment the box lay open before him. The first object
which met his gaze after the removal of the manuscript, was a miniature
case. Ile applied his finger to the spring and it flew open. W- Mhat anw

~1i

0

4


12

LEONNIE ST. JAMES ; OR, THE SUICIDE'S CURSE.

1
lB

gel face was that which smiled upon him from the ivory?  "Beautiful!
beautiful !" he exclaimed,; " surely, this is not the picture of a human
face ; 'tis but the product of the fertile imagination of some finished
artist. Who is this ?" he inquired in eager tones, of Mrs..Field.
"After you have learned her history, you shall know her name," she
replied.
Before twelve o'clock that night he was in possession of the, follow-
ing details, gleaned from thematiuscript:
"It was one of those bright, calm mornings in May; not a cloul
rested. upon the face of the broad, blue heavens. The very air-without
the aid of orange blossoms-seemed laden with sweets. The rich tint-
ed pink and purple vapors floated in the _air just above the house-lops,
and looked like garlands of bright flowers, twined and festooned by,
angels' hands.
"Such was the appearance of this lovely morning to the eye of the
lover of the beautiful, even in the busy, bustling city of New York.
.housamjs passed and repassed without heeding its beauty. They only
saw the pavement upon which they trod; so busy were their iniuds
with the subjects which occupied their thoughts. But the group of
young girls sitting in the school-room of the Rutger Institute was not
of the latter class. They were six in number--gay, light-hearted, and
beautiful. But the most bright and beautiful among them was Leon-
nie St. James. Tall and queenly in figure for one (of her years, with
heavenly blue eyes, together with a rich musical voico, She was the
last of th6 above mentioned group who arrived, and as she entered the
school-room the others ran forward to meet her to give and receive the
usual good-morning kiss.
" Shall we walk out, or remain here until school time? " said Au-
guAta Somers, another lovely girl. "We have it half hour to do just
as we please in."
",Oh ! let us walk, by all means," cried Minnio Trueman, a nymph
with-roguish gray eyes. 'We will make quite a conspicuous appear-
anco marching along two abreast a la miUlaire."
This last remark drew forth a merry laugh from her companions.
"0, come!" said Leonnie, "let us walk ; it will do uts good this
lovely morning."
I would rather not," said Efie Lane, a palo girl with large black
eves and sylph-like form.
~ Why, what's the matter with Eflie Lane ?" said Minnie, " sho
looks as solenmn as a nun or sister of charity."

UICIE  g CUSE.13
LEONN1IE ST. JAMES 7OR, TIIE SUICIDE cSns1
All the girls gathered around ~flie to hear her answer.
" I have felt unhappy," she said, "ever since I read the account of
the dreadful suicide which took placQ last night."e
' Suicide I" exclaimed the whole party, n eag
"Tell us about it," said Leonnie,
"Yes," chimed in all the voices; "do "
SIt is of a beautiful young girl, who drowned herself on the New
Jersey shore last night, She is recognized as a young cigar gir of
-reat notoriety in the city. Mary Cecelia Rogers is her name, and only
ighteen years old. 0, is it not dreadful?"
"0, Yes, it is!" lied Minnie Trueman, while the rest of the girls
looked the same sentiment.
"What could have induced her to commit such a ras  a   wicked
act i " questioned itarriet Swan, the most practical girl of the group
"It is supposed that she badbeen deceived bya. young man;" e
plied tie; "and' I suppose that she laad rather die than meet the
scorn of the world."
"You wouldn't catch me drowning myse                       her
in the world;" cried Minnie Trueman, with an extra eurl on her
pouting lip.
" Nor I'1" exclaimed all except Leonnie St. James, whose eyes were
cast upon the floor, as if chained there by a spell.h
"Why, look at Leonnie" cried Minnie; "how serious she looks.
Come, come, Leonnie, let us iear from your wise lips, what you would
do, if a young man should gain your heart and then forsale you for
another!"
"Well," said Leonnie, and a deep, unconscious sigh escaped from
her bosom. "As'I have no father or brother to fight a duel in protection
my honor, I think that in such a case, I should bid good-by to the
world, and
" And what?" cried Minnie; "jump intothe river?"
"0, no," replied Leonnie, smiling,henter oa nunnery. But come,
since you are sominquistive as to ask What othrs would do, pray e-
lighten us as to what you would do under such trying circumstances.
It is well, perhaps, for us to think of these things, as we don't know
how soon we may be called to bear the trial."I'h l
"Oh! " said Minnie, with a quiicar look an supoea tanyat Ityl
droop, and look pale and itrsng fo-wie an       'ra any quat
of novels to find a parallel case. Of' course my friensh wld ete
alarmed, the doctor would advise a change of sceneIholbepcd

I

b

f

ON

I

Al l


77

1i4          LRosNJ sr. 3A3Bs; on, T1u1 s5reIcn's elrasI.
oft t  a w       , place, become interested  in some sentimental
young man, and after a few moonlight strolls, should forget that I ever
had a first love:'
" At this inoment the hell summoned them to appear in the next room,
for the purpose of attending prayers; and amid the various studies of
th day, the circumstances of the morning's conversation were quite
furgottepby all excepting one; that ne was Leonnie St, James,

CHAPTER lI.

"I do believe you think what now yoti speakt
But what we do determine oft we break;
Purpose is hut:the slave to moriory,
Of violent birth b t poor validity;
Which now, like fruits unripe sticks on the tree,
But fallunshaken, when they mellow be."

"Loonnie was left an orphan while yet a tender infant, and had been
adopted into the family of an old friend of her fathers-Mr. and Mrs.
Josselyn. The old couple,. who had watched with such tender care
over her childhood, had no children of their own. Neither did they
possess much of this world's goods; but they had managed to keep her
at school. at the time she is introduced to the reader she had passed
her sixteenth year, and this was to be her lIast term t school. She
would then be fitted to act as governess to young pupils. -'Such was the'
course marked out for her by her well-meaning guardians. One even-
ing, about three months previous to the morning on which the conver-
sation regarding the SuIcide hadtaken place at the school, Leonnie had

iKi

1 Il

(                                       ~i&amp;\~~'    ~

:~ ~

LEONNIE ST. JAMES; OR, THE SUICIDE 8 CU RSE.     15
been introduced to a young man iiamd Philip Wardell, at a private
party. A feeling of mutual love appeared to spring up between them
at first sight. A friend of Leonnie's percieving the marked attention
he paid her, and 'the pleasure those attentions seemed to give her,
wvhisoered in her ear-" Beware of hiim, Leonnie, he is a heartless lib-
ertine."  But Leounic heeded not the warning. She could not if she
would. Her heart was gone-.-gone from her keeping forever, Philip
Wardell was the possessor -of that unblemished gem.
"'The next eveninrg after the party, he called at the residence of the
Josselyns and inquired for Leonnie. He was shown to the parlor by a
domestic. Instead of meeting the sweet smile of Leonnie, he met the
stern eye of her guardian, who thus addressed him:
"Mr. Wardell, you are an unwelcome visitor at this house. Leontie
is my ward.. I love her as a ehild; arid I would not have her despoiled
of her parity and virtue by subh a heartlesslibertine as you have pro-
ed yourself to be. I know more of your doings than you are aware of,
so be gone, and never enter mny door again!"
"Burning with anger and insulted pride, Philip left the house mut--
tering nurses,
X Yes, old man," he said, " I will be revenged i I will plcktyour
lovely flower, and Nhen I have blighted its freshness will cast it with-
ering at your feet. I'll teach you to insult a gentleman's son.~
" After thus unceremoniously dismissing young Wardiell, he summon-
ed Leonnie to his study. 'Come, Leonnie he said, 'and sit in this
chair beside me' The trembling-girl obeyed. ' Yoiiknow,'he began,
' that Mrs.. Josselyn and myself have loved you as well as though you
had been our own child. We have done all in our humble power to
make your home pleasant; and you have well repaid~ us for our pains
by yielding obediently to all our wishes. And now that the trying
hour has come, I trust that you wil take our advice  He then related
what had taken place between himself an *Piip, and also told her his
true character.
"Loonnie listened, and when he had finished, she wiped the tears
from her eyes and said: 'Friend, father, I will try to do as you wish
-forget him ; but oh, it would have been so sweet to have loved hims
Still, I will promise never to speak to him; or at least not to listen to
hi1s words- of love.' 'And this simple-mninded, inexperienced girl
intended to keep her promise. -But, alas!i poor unsuspecting Leonnie,
she knew not the wiles and snares that woild be set by the heartless
betrayer to entrap her-the tems aions that would beset her on every

~T                                            =77


~i

'U
iii

16        ILEoNNIE ST. JAMES; oR, THE sUICIDE'S CURsE.
side. She knew not the honeyed words that would be breathed in her
ear. She had yet to learn how delicious was the draught of first lov(e,
or how impossible to resist the gentle influence of the practiced deceiver
who had two points to gain-her love, that he might toy with her while
the charm lasted, and revenge upon the old man, who had insulted
him.
"On the following morning, as Leonnie was passing on her way to
school, to her great surprise, she met Wardell. It was with half regret
half pleasure that she returned the warm greeting he gave her.. Tie
sorrowful, heart-broken look which he had assumed, a"d the sad tone
of voice in which he addressed her had awakened in her a feeling of
sympathy for him,
"'One point gained,' he murmured, with a smile of satisfdaction, as
he left her. ' Gain a girl's sympathy and you are sure of her love.'
"4Ere he left her he received a promise from her to' meet him that
evening on her return from school. Thus for week they met clan
detinely.
"On the evening following the morning on which the conversation
regarding theasicide in te school-room took place, Leonnie had pro-
mised Wardell to go to the minister's to get married; and it was the
knowledge of.this which caused her to look so-sad upon that occasion.
Sil she felt that there could be no artifice or deception used towards
No, no;' she soliloquized, 'there is-no falsehood in the nature of
Philip. ie, has never spoken a disrespectable word to me. Ile desires
to make me his wife, and my heart tells me that a life of happiness
awaits me if I consent. If not I must be miserable, for I can never
love, another.'
"Alas! the love of woman! It is known
To be a lovely and a fearful thing;
For all of theirs upon that die is thrown.
And if 't is lost, life hath no more to bring
To them but mockeries of the past."
When the school closed for the day, Leonnie made an excuse to her
companions for taking an opposite direction from the one she usually
took on her return home. After bidding them goad.by she walked ra-
pidly for about five squars. At the corner of a small alley crossing
Grand street she saw .a carriage, waiting, and as she approached the
driver dismounted and opened the door. The next moment she was
seated beside the idol of her heart-Philip Wardell, and riding at a -
rapid rate down the street; The curtains of the carriage were closely

r

IMF#"                                                                                     Pf"

o rST. JAMES    TnE s
-d-----u                     z    - Philip drew her closely to
eled from ftPubbec gazeMh1
di 41 dthjus cone                  tekik3e   pon her. bp".
d imprinting warm and passionate kses u
h s beast anife-in
'OhlMySSweet Leonnie ! you will soon be my own y wiesant
pit ofh, yur awd - and to-morrow we will start apon a plea
Ptewoflour sguardia week at Albany, and then proceed to Sarat ga,
trW    oiagaraalls    an( after spending a month I travelun
an lithence to hs N ct asetle down in a neat little home on the
e wmigd&amp;returoad. t  th e purchased a neat cottage, and baye gien
Orders to have it furnished with every comfort and luxury,  ou
orders thve ot rs m s of birds and flowers for your companions
hrin the dosly rabsenceto the city on business. I have also a lle
duringr my daily absnd          YuIa attend Disbrow's se 0
poy0hihyou 6shall learn to ride. Youcanattnd  Isb0. Sscoo
pilny u which youfs 1orself in the art, and then we can ride out to-
gntil you can pr  think that we'll be happy, my love?'
get     on' aoe   her eyes, which were filled with tears and e-
Leme  risd
claimed, d    I do not serve so much happiness, so much 1ndness  .
o   ou; but if th  o  nd true devotion of a woman's heart can
fromyo  'ebtedness, you shall be richly rewarded.'"
repAy th-in           conversation the carriage stopped,
At this point of the ded01liht of Stone
opened the door, and Philip alighted and ascended afig
steps, which led to the front door of a neat tvo-story brick house.
There he was met by a gentle      A     a     h    d     d
returned and said,   - ' the house where we are to meet the minister.
And a he assed he to alight, he said to the coachman:  'Return
t 8 o'clock this evening.
'All right!I ' was the coarse h reply.
"tAs Leonnie entered the hall, she was Me
who smiled and said:
'Walk into the back parlor, miss.           ated and was assist-
tLeonnie followed the lady into the room design  a
ed by her in taking off her bonnet and shawl.
' And o yoU are going to be married,' she said, peyfulcon to Leon'
nie  'II never did approve of runaway matches,' sh im otod possut
Phlip is uh sn old friend of our family, and knowin hime ta posui
such high-mhided principles that, after he hdanswhreued thateryoi
were an orphan and under the care of a guardian had re ad toderoga-
yo to receive his addresses on account of rumorS ehaherdro"

6'
4

i

.4
14!;

1414
ii
1411
44

10 pit, vw* ll w oil ON

4L,


o;il

CHAPTER IV.

8.NLEON1 ST. J.nES; OR, THE SUICIDE'S CURSE.
tory to~lis character, which must have been circulated by some envious
person, I gave my consent to assist him in his plot.. He has purchased
quite a wardrobe for you; or, at least, he has authorized me to do so.
He told me your hight,-and gave me a belt, whieh he said be had asked
of you as a memento. With the aid-of these-I have had severAl dresses
made for you. If they do not fit they can be easily atered..'  As she
spoke, she raised the lid of a large..travelihg trunk, and there Leonnie-
to her great srprisel found ererythingnecessary for alady'a wardrobe.
But come,' said Mis Larry,. for tha was the hostess' mme, 'the
minister- is waiting in the front parlor. - Permit me to show- yo to a
bedroom, where you can change your dress. This silver-grey travel-
ing dress, Ithink,' she added, 'is the most appropriate as Philipinsistsl
upon goingto-a hotel to-night. r"
" The dress was soon arranged and Mrs. Lrra left her... J  a few
moments Philip came in and conducted her tothe parlor.. They found
the minister waiting.. After the. eeremo'y wa&amp;conldod, the whole
party was conducted to the dining-room below, where a table stood
spread out with every luxury of the season. Champagne, sparkled in
tie glasses, and a11 drank, t.the-health of the happy pair.

.1

4,l

he does not come,' murmured a pale girl, with tear-,
bedi  d estane  ft and mournful tones, as she clasped her darliug
bbeditmed eyesin  b st. 'Who would have thought? two years ago,,
babe to'hrsoy     ea9                    am, sick with weeping;
that Philip would have thus neglected me?   am  It was weesome
I cannot shed another tear. Oh, this is dreadful I It ws m ne. Torne
relief to weep. Now, even that poor relief is denied me.  They say
that when people cannot shed tears they go mad. Oh, horriblethought!
What if I should go mad and kill my Ch                  I be
horrid thought I I will not give up to these sickening fancies.Fe wbe
Yes a stouthearted, real woman!  1            .
t womani1s    , It  o  a week since he was here; and then he took
true heroisrgn I--Is13nOw       ta   e    sthv    hM ; that he
the silver and all my jewels, saying- that lea ustl ave them th all,
was n dbtand they nwst be sold*--, 1ow gladly would I part with al
could I but secure his, love and fFetion- I will work at the most me-
thing to live in his love.'
nia'Plaor Phi ' she ighed as a new idea entered her mind, 'while
ni.-  here. surrounded by every luxury, you, perhaps,
1 have been r   n   -           Y   could not bear to, tell me
-have been stA glngwthpoety        n f    Oh !. how blind I have
you feared tkat it would fret your little wife.i.  ho   ; he
ben o have seen Ill thi3, eforo - The, Cr 1s is hs .come; h4

"Oh I colder than the wind that freezes
Founts, that but now in sunshine played,
is that congealing pang, which seizes
The trusting bosom when betrayed.".

yi~,I. I
~i1.
~1 4~

j;J ~

rA
WOO*


01,

A
ifi

-NJ

LEoNNIE ST. JAMES; -Olt, THE SUICIDE s CURsE.
ruined, and will not return to me a beggar. I will go to the city and
seek him out. I'll tell him that I am no longer a school girl, but a
woman, with a woman's heart; that I will share his poverty   that t1
will leave this pretty cottage, where we have spent so many happy
hours; this little parAdise where you, my boy, first saw the light of
day and received your father's ivarm kiss of welcome. Yes, I will
give-up all, I can take a little school in the city, and make enough to
keep a neat, comfortable room for Philip"; and when he sees how light-
hearted I am, he will bheer up, and fortune may smile again. I would
go to-night, but the snow is falling so fast tha't I fear little Nelsie would
take cold. I feel as if I could fly. I could pass over to the avenue and
get into the stage, but I have not got a sfipence, for I spent the Lst
few pennies I.had this morning for bread and milk for Nelsie. I won-,
der if there is enough left for his breakfast.' She then arose and laid
the sleeping child in his crib, and with a mother's caution she hastened
to the cupboard to see how the bread and milk held 'out. 'I am very
hungry,' she sighed, as she lifted a smallipait'of a loaf, 'but I must
not taste this. No, I will not ,ob my child. Now, if Philip should
come, what would I do? Ie would want sonie supper. O, if he only
would come ! I could toast the bread, and warm the milk and throw it-
over.. le likes milk-toast. But then there is no butter. 0, well, he
could get along without butter foi once.'"
"Poor teonnie, for it was she, would rob har babe for that heartless
mian, and yet would not taste a crumb, to appease her own hunger.
'More angel she, and he the blacker devil!' -Hugry and almost
heart-broken, she retired to her bed. One thought cheered her; and
that was of starting to the city in the morning, and the hope of finding
her husband. At length she slept but it was not that sweet, undi1
turbed, refreshing stimber of other days. At an early hour in tho
morning, she was awakened by the sweet voice of little Nelsie, calling
'Mama, mama, Nelsie cold.'"
"She arose, and to her sorrow and astonishment, saw that the snow
was still falling. She felt that it would be impossible for her to reach
the city with'her childin her arms in her weak state of health. Just
then a note from her little pet Canary bird fell upon her ear. 'Poor,
little thing,' she said, 'you to, will starve.' Then placing the cage
upon the table,-she began to make a fire, which soon was blazing cheer.,
fully in the grate. She then warmed the milk and fed Nelsie, and aftei'
kissing him twenty times, while the tears stole down her cheeks, shie
said to him :

* ~W77

6

LEONNrTm ST JAMES ; OR, THE SUICIDE S CURsE.2
Will Nelsie be good and not go to the fire optil mama comes back ?
S' Yes,' he replied, in lisping accents, 'Nelsie good boy, maMa, bring
Nvlsie candy?'
"She threw a shawl about her, and taking up the cage, left the cot-
tage. A short distance up the road stood a small shanty, in which
lived an Irish family, w4ho gained a living by retailing cheap liquors,
tobacco, and a few coarse groceries, such as cod-fish, mouldy ham, ,poor
tea, and dark brown sugar. The only article fit for a person: to eat
was the Irish potatoes. To this shanty Leonnie bent her steps. When
she arrived she met a hearty welcome from the fat, good-:natured inis-
tress.ta
I have come,' she said, 'to ask yoU to give me a little milk, a loaf
of bread, and a few potatoes for this bird and cage. The bird cost ten
dollars,,and the cage seven, and I will be glad to get two dollars worth
of provisions for them.'"
" The wonian spoke kindly, and invited her to sit down by the
fire. ,Sure,' said she, 'I have no use for the pretty thing, bu" I will
let vow have the things you want; and if you want to sell the bird and
(age, my old man is going to the city this morning, and he will sell it
for you.
"'Very well,' replied Leonnie, 'that will do; but please give me
the things, for I left my babe, and I am afraid that it will get into the
fire'

"The bread, potatoes and milk were made ready. 'Come,' said the
old lady, 'lc me fix you a nice little warm-drink,,fo,r faith, an' it's
hard weather.
" Leonnic accepted the offer, and took a drink of Irish whisky punch,
which the woman declared was from her own private bottle, and then
started for the cottage. There she found little Nelsie safe, and soundly
sleeping upon the carpet. That day passed, and still no tidings from
Philip."
'1Oh !' she exclaimed as she gazed upon the golden sunset, which
scorned to be smiling a good-night to the snow-covered hills ; Oh! if
it is 'Clear in the morning, I will start for the city. I can get a few
pennies from the woman at the shanty on the cage and bird."'
"At this moment she heard a knock at the door. She hastened to
open it, and as she did so, she saw standing there the husband of her
Irish friend."
"'I have come,' he said, 'to pay you the balance due you on that
bird and cage you left with my wife this morning. I tried to sell it for

a

40

w

41


4

"The man took the money, and soon returned with the above-men-
tioned articles. When it was prepared, she sat down to her lonely
meal, and soon after retired to bed. When she arose in the morning
the sun'was shining. After dressing hers,.f and child and partaking
of a scanty meal, she took Nelsie in her arms and crossed over to the
avenue. There she entered an omnibus and yi-oceedd4to the city.
She knelv not the- street or number of her husband's place of business.
and after wandering around for some time, she at length thought of a
directory, inwhgich she found the desired information. His business,
place was No. -, Maiden Lane. To this place she proceeded, not ex-
pecting to-find him ; only hoping to hear from him. Judge of her joy
and surprise upon-opening the store door to behold him in conversation
with a gentleman who seemed about to buy something. There was an
old.gentleman and two younger ones seated at the back part of the
store. - As soon as Philip saw'her he said to the gentlemen:
Excuse me a moment, until I see what the lady ,Wants.' He ap-
4proached her, and she read in his looks-- be silent.
"lHe bent down and said to her: 'Go to the Pearl Street house. I
'Will meet you there in half an hour.'"
"Without replying, or even a look of reproach, she left and wenv
directly to thehouse designated."
At the appointed hour he came; but not the fond affectionate lover
and husband of other days. His first words were/:
Why have you followed me, and how dare you come to the- store?-
I have told you that I did not wish my father to see you, or know any-
thing of imy secret marriage.'"
"At these cruel words Leonnie burst into tears. She couTd not speak.
Little Nelsie crowed and laughed at his father; but the hardened wretch
took no notice of his childish' prattle. At length Leonnie recovered
her self-possession sufficiently to speak, and said:

F
i~
:1 i

3             1

I)
'4

LEONNIE ST. JAMES OR, THfE 8UCIDEYURsE.
more, but fouid that I would have to bring it back  and so I took tive
dollars for it. Will th t do?' "
0, yes,' said Leonnie, 'you have been vey kind.'"
le then handed her three dollars, one of which she insisted upon
his taking in payment for his trouble."
"'Divil a ha'porth will I take of It. If there is anything you want
tronr the, store, I will go up and bring it down to you,. for the snow is
too deep entirely for a delicate creature like you to go out."'
"'Well,' said Leonnie, 'I should like a little tea and a simall amack-
erel.'"

LEONNIE ST. JAMES  OR, iHE .sUICIDE's CURSE.
I have waited for you more than a week, d became alarmed about
you. You told ie when you were last at theottage that you had met
with reverses; and is it notithe #lity of a wife -to seek and comfort het
husband?'
"'Wife!' he said, with a sneet 'you aren'tt m y 'wife. The main
who joined us was'one of miy comrpanions, and donnedthe -ministeril
robe merely to serve me upon that ocoasion, I did this merely to spite
old Josselyn for his irsu4ts. You suited ie for a time, but I am tied
of you and have Ieen for a considerable while. There is not variety
enough in your nature: you are too4a,me. Besides it's deuced expensive
to support a woman and her bit. 4'm nowabout to marry an heiress,
so I'd thank you not to show youitself  a
"During this speech of double-distilled cra-lty, Leonnie sat a one
in a trance. The ,Aild slid from -hr lap -and had crept to the window.
Leonnie's head fell ick, and she b1ecatme as white and cold Vas ,marble
Philip looked p ;and eaid e
'Come, don't be 'putting onirs  you are yoaug andpretty and will
doubtless fiad ixaiy admirers.
"A choking noi issued from he throat . Philip -sok her and
said
'Come, don't m'ke a T4  of yourself.'
"Finding that his works ha no effect upon he'r, ho seized herhanid'
and, placing his thumby-nnis beneath hers, pried into the quick unt il
the blood comed from th . ire excruciating pain caused by this
heartless performance, whih iight almost bring the dead to life, had
the desired vffect-- hat of bringing her to her senses.'
'ome,' said he,' you c't tride with We and feign, fits. I'm too
well versed it these things to te frightened't
" Lennie *rose, and with unaeffoft reacvd a tble ,whi ch was netr.,
Awnd took a tambier froin which lhe tank a swallow of wate ; then
sank lfaek helpless upola the sofl%. PhiiIp fearing, that she might dari
the house, aroge Ad r0g the bell and  ordered a bottle -of old Port.
\When it was  ouht in he gave her . glas, telling her to 'dtink it
all; it would revive her,.' After she &amp;rank the wine she felt somewhat
refreshed, and the first words she uttered were:
" 'Oh! is this Phil/ Wardell? and, if so, is all true that has just
escape'l your lips?' '
" ' All is true ns there is a God above,' he replied ;'aand now, I ha~ve
but fittle to sys this must be the last tire that .you ever speak
to ime.' -

t

7 77  Zll-

'14
NO   1  ,       "1 6

f-

wxv


I
Alto

24          LEONNIE ST. JAMES OR, T1nE SUICIDEPS cUIsE.
"'Oh, no 1 screamed Leonnie; 'bh, no! Philip, do not say that I
and clung about his neck and sobbed and wept. 'Oh, kill me, Philip
I can-die by your hand; but I cannot live and not see you and speak
with' you.'"
'Well, I shall not take the trouble to kill you, andrun the risk of
being hung. I you don't want to live, kill yourself.' "1
" How Leonnie kept her senses through all these taunts and jeers;
and from the lips of the man who had so lately professed to love and
idolize her, I cannot tell."
Here,' he said, handing her a ten-dollar bill, 'take this; it will
keep you and the young one until you find some one to befriend you.'"
"'Oh, Philip!' she groaned, in tones of the deepestagony; 'if you
-no longer love me; if I, whom you once loved to,' caress and fondle
with, have become hateful to you, don't desert your child, and cast him
froin you forever.'",
' 'My child f' said Philip, with a scornful, sarcastic 'look; 'I'm not
so sure of-that;- it's just as likely to be another's.'"
"Leonnie sprang towards him with the fierceness of a' tress. He
had aroused a other's pi'ide-insulted a woman's truth."
"'Philip Wardell,' she said, 'take back those last words, or I will
kill you!'"
"She had snatched a large China pitcher from the table a she
advanced towards him, and held it menacingly above his head. lIe
caught her by the arm and threw her to the floor, and after taking the
vessel from her, slapped her face several tinies."_
'Take that ! and thatb' he said, as blow after blow fell upon her
face and neck. 'I'll teach you to threaten me. I'nm going now; atild
before I leave, I have a few words of warning to say to you: Thi
must be the last time that we ever meet; and if you ever dare to coin e
where.I am, I will have your child taken from you and put where you
will 'neve ' see him again, and you shall be sent to the insae 'asylum
as a lunatic; and I will take good care to keep you there.' And with
these brutal words and a fiendish smile, he took his departure."
"Poor Leonnie; her sorrow knew no bounds. She snatched up the
child and drew it to her breast. 'Oh, God !' she cried, 'do not let my
heart break. Oh, have mercy upon me; assuage the anguish which
swells my breast. Do not let these overwhelming trials drive me mad.
I would l-ive, and in nmy right mind, for my darling's sake.'"
" After uttering the foregoing simple and earnest prayer, Leonnie
felt more calm. 11cr mind gradually became more peaceful, and she

'-4

LEONNIE ST. JAMES0; OR, THE SUeIDTE DE RS
Irean011ed thus:0. ' My poor little Nelsie, now my' only comfort t, you
i:tl never know the disgrace which attends thy birth. I will leave the
country, and away in, a foreign land I will hide the truth from you.
(h1!.if I could only hate him-your father; but no, no, I .cannot,  I
Liust love him still.
She rang the bell and a servant answered the call. 'What is my
bill?' she inquired.
Noin, inatdam;'was the respectful answer of theservant;the
entleman. settled your bill until to-morrow morning.' lie then ih-
drew, losing the door after him.'
'Oh ! I cannot stay here,' she murmured, with     w sigh, I mut go
-Ak to the cottage. I suppose he means to let mue keep-that. Bult 1 i1
1"t jtay there long. I will self it, and with the money that I will
receive fomit will sail far away from these scenes of misery,'"
"It was near seven o'clock when Lennie arrived at the cottage, which
stood down a little lane leading from the Bloomingdale road. She
entered, the little gate and stepped upon the porch. Judge of her
astonishment to find it closed, and a heavy ar nailed across the door.
'he sat dowil upon the steps, for she felt faint and weary. 'What shall
I do ?' she* said, in despairing accents.  "Iusbandless, houseless ;
and, if I dare to complain, become childless, and the inmate of a mad-
house.' IHer head fell upon her bosoni; hope had fled from her
heart."
Mamma, mamma,' whispered the child, ' Nelsie hungry. GiveNel-
sIe bread and milk and let Nelsie lay in he crib. Pretty mamma, don t
cry. Nelsie get yosey for you in 'e mornin'"
The lisping prattle of the child probed the wound within herbreast
and caused it to bleed afresh, yet it nerved her to make an effort to feed
and lodge her child. She passed out of-the gate and soon reached the
door of the shanty."
"'0, come in, my lady, you are welcome,' exclaimed the hostess."
Upon entering Leonnie found herself surrounded by some rough
Irish laborers ; but with true Irish politeness, they all bowed upon
seeing a strange lady in their midst, and sat down quietly. ' You must
excuse the smoke,' said Mrs. Dougherty, 'for the boys work hard all
slay and the divil couldn't hate thorn out of their smoke at night.'
" 'I've come,' said Loonnie to Mrs. Dougherty, ' to ask shelter for the
night for myself and child. The snow is too deep and mn little boy i
too sleepy to go to the city to-night.'"
"'Sure,' answered Mrs. D., ' My accommodations are poor enough


N

ii fill,
M
~ii ~;
f V
iii it
Ii *~
II ~
ii
Ii

-~ *~4~.* *~ *e.-

LEoNNIE, ST. JAMES; OR, THE sUICIDE'S CURSE.
but there is the cradle that little Mick slept in before he died, the lowly
VTargin rest his swate sowl, and the child can lay in that.'
SAnd I,' said Leonnie, observing that her hostess was somewhat
embarrassed, ' can sa in the chair till morning.' "
'Poor creature,' said the woman, 'some trouble at the cottage, I
suppose. God help her swate delicbate face."
The next morning, ILonnie foand that the cottage, together ,vith
the furniture had been sold.- All her clothing, and that of her child,
had been put into a 1arde traveling trunk and left upon the porch.- This
Whe had removed to the shanty, and after taking out a change for the
kild;, she started for the eity. Arriving there, she drew forth her purse,
and to her horror the ten-dollar note was missing. Nothing was left
save a little change. 'With that money I might have taken board for
a few days, during which tine I might probably have Aunnd some
kind of employment. Six shillings,' she exclaimed, after counting it
ever..  Will go to the intelligence office and book my name ; that will
'.ost fifty cents.' After doing so, she returned to the shanty. She told
Mrs. DoAgherty of her loss and asked her what she had better do.
Poor ehids,' said the kindly disposed woman, 'sure, I'm not good
of advising. butyouill have to take your trunk to the city, and go to
some. boarding-house, anid when you get a place at service, you can
lemAe- it in pledge for your board until you can earn enough to
re~dee it.'

4Ofne long loud shriek swelled on the air,
The thrilling cry of dark despair,
And all was still and silent theree"
" Two inonths h wl pased snce Leonmie bad left the cottage in -such
utter despair. She had passed through every grade of poverty, misfor-
tune eml dnsult. .for ne month she had been stopping in the miserable
apartment of Mr, Field, ha vain had she sought employment. ,he
had wandered the city .over, seeking fox something to do that would
enable her to earn a scanty subsistence. She thought that she might
make skirts,.  She one day aled at a Jew's shop, the proprietor of
which htad advertised for five hlindred hands
'cs  I vill give you work, but you nost leave one dollar deposit on
a bundle-dat ish two shirts-4or sectreity.'' was his answer."
"'A dollar !' said onnie, in surprise ;I have not got a shilling in
the wold.  But I will tell you where I live, and you shall have them
all safe day after to-morrow.
444,dat ish very goot sthory, but ish nlo Suit me. You leave one
(Ililkr., aud ven you pring te shirts pack) I pays you fifty cents; tat ish
to 'Ie 4f te making. I keeps te dollar as long as you works for mc,
and tn you gets te tollar pack'                              -
"The last string which had urgel her on to life was cracked. H1er
The above is the manner in which capital is often raised by the traders in
New York city, to carry on the shirt business.

CIIAPTEI V.

*                I;

I)

1J,


I

t s

LEO'NlE ST. JAMElS ;OR, WE SXCIDE

heart crushed, her brain crazed, she felt calm and resigned. Pride
had ceased to struggle in hertosom. As she walked towards the resi-
dence of Mrs. Field, she met a gay young lady. She stepped up to
her and said: ' You will give me some bread for little Nelsie ; wOn'It
You, Birdie?'"
Poor thing,' sighed the young, girl, as she handed her twenty-ive
cents, ' she must be crazy or tipsy.' "
When Leonnie reniehed her humble lodgins, she gave the money
to Mrs. Fiel, who went out and purchased some bread. The poor
wonf n thought she perceived something strange in the actions of theo
yotuig mother, Still she said nothing, but determined not to retire
until Leonnie should be asleep. Little Nelson was sleeping sweetly.
lPoor child, he know nothing of his mother's sufferings."
Come, Leonnie,' said Mrs. Field, ' you had better go to bed ; it is
getting late.'"
"'In a few moments,' she replied, in a sad tone of voice. She then'
went to her trunk, which was nearly empty, and appeared to be busying
herself with its meiiger contents,*fn -a few moments she seated herself
beOside Mrs. Field and said in a clear voice, and with apparent sanity :
DAar friend, I have a strange presentiment which haunts me like
the memory of a troubled dream. There have been times within the
last five or six hours, when I have been unconscious to all around. I
emuld not even call to mind the name of my sweet child. I fear that
I am going crazy. Oh! -hw I have pray ed that this calamity might be
averted, 'for Nelsie's dear sake. You see I cannot cry; Should my
fears become verified, will you take care of N*iei? that is, put him'
under the care ofE those who won't abuse him? I would rather that he
would share your poverty than that he should go among strangers. But
to with him as you please, only do not let that tend have him. I mean
Philip W ardell-his father--my betrayer.' "
"' Leonnie,' saidl Mrs. Field, ' go to bed, you are discouragedl;' a good
night's sleep will make you well again. In the morning you will feel
more light-hearted. The winter is past; it is now the month of May
times will get better. lNelsie is now old enough to lbavo with me, andl
you can get a place at service ; and when you have earned alittle money
you ca~n redeem some of your clothes and b~e prepared to take a situation
as governess. Come, come, ehder up,' said Mrs. Field, in kindly tones,
' there are many happy days in store for you.' "
" 'These words were like oil on the wounded heart of Leome.. '0,
dlear Mrs. Field,' she exclaimed, 'I will strive to be 'atient;a but you

C,

-ALE NNE ST- 'AME  OR, THE CsUICIDEseRsE.         2
Loiw tla-t peoplee will not take a girl without reference from her last
pince, or from sooe icersen of iniuence. I can give reference from
eIther. OG, th is is a strange world!' she sighed, and again that look
wretchedness stole across her countenance. 'You go to bed, Mrs.
ei, I want to write a little, and then I will go to rest.'"
"'No, no,' replied  i rs. Field, I will not leave you. You can write
oi morning. I have a nice lot of washing this week and shal
r      ieve money enough to p-y the rent and lay in a small stock of pro-
'ery well, tien,' said Lonnie, ' I will go to bed.' Then handing
Mrs. Field a small box, she said: ' Take thi, and if-anthing happens
me, be so kind as to'keep it ; and if you live Until Nelsie is twenty
one giVe it to him ; or, leave it with some responsible person to be given
o him wIen he attains his majority. Unfortunate child, I would not
have him know of his father's heartlessness until he is did enough to
re0ssht' i.*
Mrs. Fibld promised to do as requested, and they both retired.. The
niext morning feonnie felt nigh refreshed and ivigorated by the rest
which the previous night's sleep' had afforded her  She helped Mrs.
Field with the washing. About three o'clQck in the afteroon, she
started to go to an intelligence office ifor the purple o obtaining
a situation as chamber-maid, or as child's nurse. As she passed down
Greenwich street, she aasedat the coi'nbr dp aarclayuntil a carriage
passed. A gentleman and lady were seated on the back seat. Just as
the carriage turned the corner, the gentleman looked out of the window.
It was Philip Wardell. 'or an instant his eyes caught those of Leon-
nie, add the 'next instant the vehicle was passing swiftly down Barclay
street. Leomi e followed with the efl'tnessof    . gazelle.
I will not lose sight of the carriage,' she inurmured.  No,.no, he-
sh all se tus. What cares I for a mad-house?' and she laughed a low
wild laugh."
"At the foot of Barclay street the carriage entered the Hoboken
ferreyboat. Leonnie rushed after it without heeding the collector at the
gate who called after her:
'liere, young woman, I want three centzfor your fare.'
" Just then a crowd of passengers came up, an(a he thought no moore
about her. After the boat started, Leonnie waliced past the carriages
The adywitin caught igtof her haggard face and said :
O' , Philip ! look at that poor, crazy-looking girl.'"
"'Do not take ainy notice of her, my dear,' answered the herteos

OIL

1K

WAR-""


44

4

I

F i

0            PumNNIrE ST. JAMES; OR, THE SUICIDES CURSE.
brute. 'If you do she may get us into trouble. Crazy folks take strong e
fancies sometimes.'"
"Searcely had the words passed his lips, when Leonnie, becoming
desperate, approached the door of the carriage nearest the lady,
and touched : the  soft satin sleeve of the dress of Mercellia-for
that was the name of Philip's young wife.* She shuddered as her
eyes met those of Leonnie."
'What is the matter, young woman ?' she asked, in a kind tone of
Viee, at the same time offering her a small purse of money." .
Leonnie laughed as she threw it back into the carriage, saying
-1 doi~t want that trash.'. Tell Philip Wardell his child is starving.
lie had better take it to the little sufferer himself,' Saying this,. she
Walked awvay."1
0, Philip" exclaimed lIercellina,. the girl knows your name;
did you hear wbst she said?"
it I did,' he replied, 'but do not remember ever having seen her
before. If she annoys us fqtther I will have her arrested.''
"'0, oPhilip, that oul~kahe eruel. She appear harmless. 0,
it is a d     vadful misfortune tobev mad,' she added,'
'At this juncture the boat touched the wharf, The chain was let
dwn, and asthe carriage passed of. the boat, Leovnie came to-the door
and 4issed in Philip's ear :.
Goodbye former, in tiA world, Philip Wardell i we Will, meet
hereafter 'I
"IMereellina did not hear the last words of Leon*e, and as they rode
on amid the fragrance of the- apple blossoms, and thp ure air of the
country, she quite forgot the sad circumstance wi  h  .o diturbed.
her while on the boat. ot so with the wretche4t and forlorn Leonnie
She wAlked au; she knew nah, cared not whither --'ut she could not
outwalk the burthen of grieft and pain of mind which weighed upon
he sorrow-stricken heart. Her course lay by the shore-that pleasure-
walk whieb leads to the elysian fields, where so anuy ox1in words had
been spoken-where so many Yows of corstancy had been uttered. On
on she walked, unconcious of the remarks passed upon   her wild
appearance by the homewardbound. At length Leonnie, wearied,
sat down in a quiet nook and~watebed the dashing of the waves.
Sometimes she would talk to them, and she imagined that they murmured
back a reply. An hour- later, all is silent, the last pedestrian had
passed ; the clouds1had gathered dark and threatening in the sky ; the
-waters roar and the waves dash with fury against the rocks; the thun-

ONNrE ,ST. JAMES; oR, TTIE SUCIDEs CUrsjpp
der rolls and seems to shake theveye1h;the   litni
wind howls; the branches shriek, as if fearful of losinrr their new
(1tws. But this storm, like the sorrows of childhood, soon passed away.
It was but aMay shower; anon the maiden moon peeps forth and
siteh sedi nifigcu to say-- Jupiter and B reas have had a 'spat f' bt
the difficulty is amicably settled, and now allnature smiles. Still
L-onnie moves not. There Ole sits, sometimes warbling forth an old
fashioned dity.
"There Ivied M  embop
iAst locked in another girl's ar s!
"At length she exch4imed, in a bird-like tone of voice:
'Philip ! Philip! I will go there; it looks so bri ceht d
you will come, andiittle Nelsie, and oei pet- th birdie. An4 Leon-
nie will be young and beautiful 4aan;aud you will love her ao~d call
er sweet n   es as yog se4 to d   S &amp;Sthe angels say,e nd they tell
40 falsehoods. Yes, I hea.them singing-,' Leonnie
over tbewaves to our fair,. bright land.'  'l go; but see-h , cmark,
tfggre-=what is it? what is it? ,bon'takdlilip, tee ..id yduay
that?' Don't take my idol!     lt repeat tho aereadfl wods agaiy
dark spi I I she exclaimed, drawing a Pen'i 'l z  here pocket. and
w, iting rapidly.. There, t at will do.    foc
"She placed the Piece of paper in her boanet, which lay besiderh
looked wildly around, an4 exclined% -  eo      c
(-A plunge a long, slliering, agoai     c cry:  y
child t --rang along the desolate shore.   -srroundi
caught up the sound and echoed them baek in faib sur ur U   a  e
body of the pure, chaste, vituou, and once beautiful        St.
James sank beneath the gapg wave, to 'rise4oo
day, when thq nations of the earth sh, ale boorellthe gret grat
to answer for the, deeda doiae here.n
"The next mornig    ssnees
"The ne m~rnig,,aO some persons were passing on their wVy tothe
New York market, their attention was attracted to n a shawl and bot
lying near a rock. Upon examination th        a sl    ad   on
which was written the following d.readf   odAsp of paper upon
.p Wardell/ may the eternatcursesofuture WorW vest
tJhyperjured eoutl e/                      adue oldretsa
" Oh! it was pitifal
sear a whole city full;
Friends, she had none

/ oe

OWN I slawma I omwilds"

71 tV


'fP
00,i1
C,!
tfl

CHAPTER VL

 Roses bloom, and then th ey wither
(?heeks are bright, then 'fade aiiddiie
Shapes of light axe ,raftid hither)
Then like visions ,urryby."
1-t'
And Leonnie, poor Leonnie, was my mother," sobbed Nelson-
Yes," replied Mrs. Field,  I pened the box after he note was
found, and   relieved that she ad left a written history of her life, up
to the time that she leftIyhouse. 4nd fearing that I might be taken
froin the world before you grew up, I-added the rest. Did I do right? "
"You did, my dear friend;" replied Nelson; "but the information-~
the kfiowledge of my mother's wrongs-has changed the course I had
marked out for ny future. .ut where is this fiend --thi:SPhilip Wair-
dell ?  Caniyoi tell me of his 'whei'eabouts, Mrs. Field?  Oh!" h1e
continued, 'if" I find him, I will iwenge my mother's wrongs:"
IKRemeiher, Nelson," said Mrs. Field, in kindly tones, as if trying
to soothe the storm of passion that was raging in iis' bosom, "renem-
ber, 'Nelso , he who wronged your mother is your father."
44Xy father!" exclaiiied Nelson,*vehemWently; "no'f my father!
my mother's murderer! He denied me to my mother's face, therefore
I only look upon him as my mother's base betrayer; and as such we
must meet, if he   still aljve! You o id that he was alive two year
ago ; where was he then ?P
The old lady hesitated.
"Come, mother," said Nelson, in an affectionate voice, "do not
deny me this one request."

1r) I
04-1

The old lady related all she knew of Philp Wardell's wherea-
bouts.
And so he went to Califoinia," said Nelson, musingly, as he ran
his fingers through his dark, curling lock, "and thereby thought to
escape my vengeanteb IHe crossed two seas, and landed upon the Pa-
vific shore. le will find little peace there. No, twenty seas, and twenty,
and twenty upon the end of them, should not keep me from him,
N E xcuse me, dear mother," he said, as he stooped to impress a kiss upon
the forehead of his old nurse and benefactress. Then, after bidding
ter good-night, he proceeded to the Astor House, and procuring a room
he called for pen, ink and paper. When these articles were brought
him he 'dismissed the servant, and closing the door, sat down at a table
and wrote the following epistle
NEw YoRK, SEPT. 20, 18-.
 ALTER DEAN EsQ.-De4r Sir: You will doubtless be much sur-
prised at the contents of this communication.
Circumstances have rendered it impossible for me to return to Phila-
delphia at present Events have transpired of which I was entirely
ignorant until ay resent visit to this city.
During the few days that I have been here, I have learned facts eon-
cernin my birth and parentage which, if known, in the eyes of the
superci ious world, would brand me as unworthy of your friendship or
your daughter's hand. I will leave you to conjecture the truth; but
with a sorrowing heart and eyes flowig with tears, I hereby relinquish
all claim to both.
You know how much I love Carrie, and can guess how many strug-
gles it will cost me to leave her ; but I cannot ask he t share my dis-
grace. I would not take her from her purity-fro a-11 that is chaste
and refined, to have the finger of Ecorn pointed at her. Oh? if she
were poor and humble, I would exclaim, in the language of the Moor :
"If heaven would make me a world of one entire nd perfect chrysQ.
ilte I would not sell her for it."
I will enclose a note to her, which after you have read, you may give
to her, if it should please you to do so.
You will please excuse the briefness of this letter. You may guess
my feelings under the painfkil circumstances. If we never meet again,
may-God smile upon you and yours, is the wish  our true, grateful
and ever faithful friend.                     Etso WARDELL.
Two days passed when he receive4 an answer which read as
follows
PArLAoIPiIu, SEPr. 28th, 18-.
NELSon WAnDXLI1---r :-Your strange epistle cane dul to hand,
and after having read it and consulted imy datightor Carrie, have but
little to -say in answer. It is that zlhfurther communication must cease
between us. I will forward the amount due you~by mail to-morrow.
With my best wishes for your- future happiness and prosperity, I
remain your friend, &amp;rc.                    WALTER B, Dr.N.
After reading the letter over several lines, Nelson folded it exelaimiag:

LEONNIE ST. 3ANDS; OR, THE $UIC1Dkls CuRSE.

P
q;ta;II 1/
I1.4,
14
F,
-N /


14

~fl
N if

LJONNIE sT. JAMIs OR, THE SUICIDE '8 CURSE.
"Not one word from Carrie; not one kind farewell. And this is
woman's love; and man's friendship I Truly has the poet said:
What is-friendship but a name'
A charm that lulls to sleep,
A shade that follows wealth and fame
And leaves the wroteh to weep?"
"With the two thousand dollars which I shall receive,I" he continnod,
I will start to Nalifornia. I will try to forget Carrie and all myv
sweet dreams ofa happy future in a domestic home. I shall strive t
let my thirst for revenge of my mother's wrongs quench every other
passion. Iencef rth I shall devote niy life to seeking out her betrayer.
When I have avenged my mother's sufferings and injuries I will die
content and with the blessed assurance that if friends meet hereafter
J will behold my 4 nted mother--dear, patient, forbearing Leznie.
41r before she committed the dreadful 'act her reason had left her, ald
God will not hold her responsible for that last fatal deed P
Two-years have passed and we find Nelson Wardell. a respectable
merchant in one of the mountain towns of California, honored and
loved b ill who knew him  After many fruitless searches he had
given up theideaof meeting face to face his mother r destroyer and
by degreeshis thirst for revenge slackened. le is still single,
No, no; he would murmur; "none other can fill the place in my
afftioM   hich Carfie Dein once filled. Ner dear image shallremaina
fresh upoi'heart     Thdgh sh may be another here, she will -be
mine in heaven, for I know she loved ine truly, derotedly. I should
bae1seindeed to blame her forgot wishing to link hier fate with my
own disgraceful birth and mysterious destiny."
One evening after losing his sfore, lie retired to his room, as 'was his
usual custom, to read some favorite author.! He hal seated himself by
his little tale; the picture of Leonnme, higronged, innocent mother
was-in hishand. -lie eard a low rap upon the door of his chamber.
"Walkin" lie exclaimed.*
The door openId anda gentleman entered.
Good evening, Mr. Allen," said Nelson, at the same time handing
hfa guest a seat.  .
"Excse me," said the visitor, 'I must dispas              i
baste. You are aware,"' he continued, 'lowering his voice to an almost
audible whisper, " that there have been of late many robberies and
attrcious murders committed in this and adjacent towns. The despe.
rados who are supposed to be guilty of committing many of them p e

4
p
I'

I,

IDONN IEi S. JANE; t, f THE SUICIDE' CURSE*
b en tracked, and, tonight the Sheriff and some of dbe citizenS are
ging, well armed, hoping to capture at least a portion of them, and so
break up the band. Will YOU accompany us?"
I will with pleasure,' said Nelson, "what time do you start?
"About ton,"relied Mr. Allen; "1 wish you to go with me to the
A     o tng   e   -         zeourselvis into separate compa-
i1es and take different routes, but tIl keeping within hailing distance
O eanher
d  a hrtedy 1" said Nelson, at the same time taking a belt to which
as attached a kife and revolver, from a drawer, and adjustig it
bot hs wa it y "this knife and revolver will be all the c vapons that
I sh-all require."
At the l eeting of the citizens it was decided that ach one should
take a toy trumpet' as they thought that with this novel instrument it
wtilde impossible to mistake the sinal of the, banditti for that of
their own. The trumpets were ofcourse to be used for signaling the
party to repair to the spot in case of an encounter.
After all was arranged each man, fully armed, sprang into his sad-
Afle, and soon the sound of the receding steps of the animals w e lost
Mn the distan-ce.
e,'t andam-haasoonNe                                    n
alf hour passed and yet no alarm had been given. Nelson and
his companions, four in number, had descended into a deep, dark ravine
cM were proceeding slowly and ilently, when s-ddenly their attention
was atwacted by a noise accompanied by cautious whispe. It appeared
wfseeral men were endeavoring to get horses down a steepplace.
N elsonthinking that it might be a detachment of his own party, ad
farin that they might mistake him and his companions for the enemy
tadfire pon them, gave a faint blow upon his trumpet, but no answer
wn-as retuprnd. Still be thought he could discern figures moving about
M the direction from whence the sonnds proceeded which had f st
arrested the atteeitioin of himsesld companNions.
"'They tire doubtless,  0'ug to s'urround-us,' whispered Nelson; and
fi flnext moment he c
If you are frtends       speak
S       these wor      ed Wis lips ere the bullets of the ban-
acey wahi eseg abort h  ad  Nelson and his gallantlittleparty
before returning the fire'of tho enemy, raised their trumpets to .their
lisad sent forth Aud shrill sound, and then the fighting comnmenie
real earnes5t. 'I ~ itti, bj firing had revealed to Nelson and hi
friends their exact 1tion, and the latter returned their fire, wh~

/

AN,
qu=-

a


40 :

77

ldf'
AA~K!
1: l t

LRONNIE SIt JAMES; OR, THE SIFCIDE's CURSE.
was fearfully effective. For some moments there was warm work ii
that darl, lonely ravine. At length the firing of the enemy ceased.
It w  evident that their powder had given out.
"The are retiring 1" cried Nelson to his companies.
"Ye ," answered one, "all of- them who are able."
e bandits had leaped intotheir saddles and rode off at a rapid, rate
I fly pursued by Nelsoi and party. A hundred rods or so from the
3cene of the conflict, the horse of our young hero stumbled over the0
prostrate body of a man. A deep groan followed, and Nelson, who had
reigned up his horse, asked :
"Who are you?"
"CA dying man," was the faint reply.
Nelson dismounted, and holding his horse by the bridle, stooped
down and asked:
"Have you anything to -say?"
'Yes," whispered the sufferer, "I have been the captain of this
bad for two years, and have many crimes to answer for in thie net
world; but I need not confess them here to you. All I have to say is,
that my real name is Philip Wardell, of New York."
" Philip Wardell I" exclaimed Nelson; " id you know a lady by
the name of Leonnie St. Jamies?'
" Oh I do not torture me with her .menory I  She is un angel! I
cannot go where she is. Oh, no I my path in the unknown world will
be far from that which was taken by., her saint-like spirit. Oh, Le-
ounieo Leonnie!1- why should your -dear name be brought here as a
weapon to tortuz'e my dying moments ? But," continued the old man
who are you?"
I," said Nelson, "am her son, Nelson Wardell."
At this moment Nelson heard the tramp of horses' feet, and putting
the trumpet to his lips blew a blast, long and shrill, The sign.
was answered, and soon a light appeared, and the whole party rode up
They had succeeded iii capturing two of dits. When they
attempted to lift the old mani from the r  which he had fallen
they round a lifeless corpse.
"What shall we do with the body?'o       ne of the men, f the
Sheriff'
"0O," he replied, "we will leave it heireuntil morning, and then we
will come back here and have a hole dug and bury .
Nelson (lid not speak, but mounted his hr# rode off' With the
test. It was nearly daylight when the party ered tow-n ith the

,               z,

IT f~~  .

LEONNIE ST. JAU1*8; OR, TH-1E UCDSUtE.T
prisoners. After having them well secured, being much fatigued from
PS
the previous night's labor, they alf retired except Nelon.
After changing his clothes, which were covered with the blood which
bad issued from his father's wounds, he proceeded to the cabin o
an old man whose trade was that of carpenter. This tan was atruo
and confidential friend of Nelson's, and he knew that he cou  tran-
him.' When he had awakened him, he related to him the circuMtau-
f the night. "And," he continued, "Mr. Iall, the deeas Oh
so much like my father that I coUld not bear the idea of having him
covered up like a brute. I wish you to prepare a box and go with me
to the spot.
In, a half hour the box was ready, and. Nelson, with a pick and spade
in company with old man Hall, proceeded to the place where they
found the body of Philip Wardell, mangled and',covered with blood.
Thy placed it in the box, and Nelson spread his pocket-handkerehien
over the face; then IHall proceeded to nail down the cover. Theythen
went a short distance from the place and selected a spot on a little
knoll, and there dug the grave which received all that remained Of the
heartless libertine, Philip Wardell.                of interring
While Nelson was performing, the last sad rites-that
the body of his unnatural father, in the ravine-the prisoners were
brought out, and amid the yells and cries of an inf e d of wh
had been rapidly gathering in town a the news spread - b y the
capture of the two bandits, and they were doomed to death- by that
judge who knows no mercy-" Judge Lynch."
Amid the wild excitement which prevailed during tie day, the body
loft in the ravine had been entirely forgotten, and when afew days after
the Sheriff dispatched two Men to search for it, they brought backthe
report that the body c~uldnot -be found, but that there was a new
grave there with a large rock placed over it. u
"Indeed i" replied the Sheriff; "then I suppose someof the band
have returned and buried their ill-fated comrade,; a and  that te
the circumstance was seldom thought of except by one,-and that oe
was Nelson Wardell.orhough this hdened
Nelson often strayed to the lonely spot;f
wretch, with all his sins upon his head, had caused hun a life of iiery,
be felt that he had given him being

,

a


p.
I A
I ;~
~M1ii1'~
~i~iIf
~ I1~
~ 71~~iYj
1~P
II
'I
i

VIT-

"There's not an-hour
Of day or dreaming nights but I'm with thee:
There'snot a wind but whisper of thy name,
And not a flower that sleeps beneath the moon,
But in its hues or'fragrance tells a tale
Of thee."
"While the hor-ible scenes related in the last chapter were heing.
enacted, you are perhaps anxious to know what -has become of Carrie
Dean. You will perhaps wonder if she ever thinks of her boy-lover-
her affianced husband, Nelson Wardell, the poor lonely orphan.-
0, yes, dear reader, the imageof Nelson Wardell was never absent t
from her mind. His name was mingled with her morning and evening
devotions.-
Poor Carrie was ignorant of the circumstances which had separated
her from the one upon whom she had bestowed the -first gushings (of
her young'and pure maiden heart.'
Her father,.after reading Nelson's letter, concluded that it would be
best to leave her in ignorance of the real state of affairs concerning her
affianced husband- and to her eager inquiries,'he only answered-
My daughter, Nelson has proved himself unworthy of your love.
He preferred. to seek his fortune in California to remaining with us.
You see that he is undeserving of the affection that you have bestowed
upon him; so therefore, my child, think no more of him."
"But, dear father," said Carrie, in a broken tone of voice, "did he

LEONNIE ST. JAMES; On, THE sJle   CS-
tsa~y one word about me- Did he not even mentionmy name?
. eayon word bot tea lie direct, and relieved, his conscience by
d he hoped that you would be happy.
"Yes, he spoke Of YOU, ad ai      Pconfiin
And so Carrie Dean, the simple-hearted, unsuspecti    falehg
rl; lived on without even a suspicion ofl e fawenedinsherd
And he, hoping that some new le        on a'e thoeght      herv
heart which would erase the old girlish pas  ,    t g    e love
for Nelson Wardell. Even he knew not her real charae r, aheioveo
Nelson Wardell-loved him with the first,  es waren affeaOf
.W.rdel.-loved hunai      wlmma
her virgin heart; la wl                          r loves her first
loved him with all the -affection and devott;iion a tovthe ;i had fr
born. There was no passiOn connected with that love; it had grown
ub with her rowth-had mingled itself with her very bein; aw
become a part of herself ;.was as necessary to her peaceofvind as was
her right arma; and she would as soon have t nobg as of adoption a
of another fitted to the stump of an amputa    ,

A
14
P4O

ne  love.             .fo te     ud her heart had receive
After'the first outburst of grif for thelwrded le he  ihrith
had passed,-after inurumng the shes of her dead love deep within the
recesses of her own heart, she returned to the dawes of evsrydaylife.h
Yet, when alone, when no curious ear could hear; when none Save the
Ai~seeing Eye could witness her sorrow,d s Awoul. give vent toner
pent-up anguish in large and peary  titindro m And as heat in
her snowy night-robes and sent forth a petitiosfrom her earnest heart to
"Our Father, who art in heaven," one Cheerished imaoe knelt With
her. Often when her head rested upon the pu  white pillove the loved
wanderer would visit her visions. Again she iwouldiv over te happy
(ays of first love. Again sh w-ould sit by theside of Nelson and listen
t a   -   ad feel the warm kisses of his purC, Unsub
i ed love upon herbrow. And when the gray morning dawned in
throui lthe  window of her chamber--whn the notes of the birds
oud call her to consciousness, and she would feel that it was but a%-
ream, she would breathe upward a silent prayer for the absent one
"0 ,  Heavenly  Father   guide  -isfootteps  in  the  right  Pathand
eep him from the evil influences of the, wicked."
She never but once aftpr the first interview, ventured to mention the
tme of Nelson in the presence of her father.'
One day while she was watering the plants in the garden,, she came
to a beautiful white rose. This plant was a gI from Nelson, an
I X1

CHAPTER

1~

k

)y
I
I


ALA

fl1
II4

~1'

LEONNIE ST. JAMES; 9O ,THlE STICIDE -S -(TURSE.

valued by hermore than all the rare and beautiful plants whieh deco:.
rated her garden. She paused and bent over it; one briny drop min-
gled with the pure spring water which she used in irrigating. As she
stood, herlbreast heaving with emotion, her thoughts wandering hither
and thither like the dove from the ark seeking a resting place, the world
was completely shut out; it seemed like spirit mingling with spirit.
The sweet trance was still upts her-when the Voice of her father called
her back to the reality of her lore1y state of being.
Oh, cruel parent I first to deceive your daughter in regard to the
truth and constancy of the one she loves, and thrn4 deprive, her of the
sweet communion of spirit with spirit.
"Carrie, child, come in," he said' 'it is far past nightfall. Your
dress is too thin to remain in the dewy air, Come with me -Dougla:s
is in the parlor waiting to:see you."
For a moment Carrie hesitated, 'fhe naame of Douglas was hateful
to her. Not that she would willingly hate any one; but she knew
that he only sought the goodwill of her childish father and herself, that
he might become the possessor of her hand and the-immense fortune to
which she was soleolieir.~
Seeing that herfather was about to repeat his request, she approached
him, kissed his wrinkled cheek and said
"Father, I trust that you will admit that I have ever been to you a
confiding and obedient child; thatI have sought your counsel and acted
according to your advice, and have obeyed all your commands. I love
and reverence you next to my God; and, I know you loveme and would
not knowingly case me pain unless you thought that I would'profit by
it; and never until within the last few weeks have you urged mew to do
aught against my will. You could not have failed to note that the im.
portunities of Mr. Douglas have been unpleasant. to me. You know I
do not love him; and I have told you that I never could. My love is
buried within my heart. I can never love again ; 'nd would not give
my hand without my heart to one a thousand timeskmore worthy than
that fortune-seeker within there. It is not nece ary that I should
marry for the purpose of souring a competency, even though speculation
,should ruin you. The fortune left mie by grand-fathuer is sufficient to
support us in. luxury for the balance of our days, You know that I
would'not be helping you by -rmarrying; you wod be the loser; that
1:8, if you value the presence of your only child. Hlis promise to remain
with you might be kept for# air months; but I doubt if even so long.
'i believe him to be~ an adventurer ; that the letters he carries about hint

WI

'A4

40

45
et
P, V

*  AM   al.

41.
LEONNIE ST' JAMB's
that I have read his char-
- geIe   thin-1k, mily dear father,
are base foreis
aster ayighwit
aerriugthis speech, Mr. Dean stood looking upon his daughter with -
lastirifng hich almost deprived him of the power of givng utter
ance to the tughts that were busy in his mind. At length he  u
strength to speak.                                           ard
" Carrie," he said, I ha e   do   o  ecthe    ae eurtesy
through without interrupting you. 1  Ipct th      e    r
youltrdllNih
fromn YOU.sci                                  a  '     ol
from youf.ther, I shall listen with pleasure" said Carrie  come, let
u sitainrid of rthe summnerouse; it is not so damp there."
'itey proceeded to the place designated,and when they were seat
r. le     reed       - in the ollowig words
Mr dear ilddrs ae sd truly I would not avillingly cause
a  ydar child, you have sai  -Wil
. '     have suffered enough already. While
yo one  ang yof ger dyoui d of the kind care and guidalee of a no-
.ie. iYour foudest ereopesi ave been wrecked. Theflowers of affect
thier. You   for yes within the garden Of your heart have been1
wihbled, bfother yweets ,verCso Purely distilled that their fragrance
lighted, but their sweets  er lt  poison there-. I wold not turn
to bitterness It odor their dead' leaves diffuse. I only thoughtthat
to bitterness te more r y ith one near your own age   I am old
.ayu willnot be without haly ; and when 1 am gone I feared that
and wi~ld fnot lely.th yhoui hyou might forget your young love for
veon whouldfeft ou t gtify  roving mind. But I anm now convince
the "ou het yo to gr -nchangale. I loved your mother, and
thatyou theteik years which have elapsed since her death,Ihave ncvr
lind another to fill  er l  I will urge you, therefore, no further.
founanh retireh to your roomeefor a while, my child; in the mean time
S     ee d disis Mr Douglas."
rmtht  o  t Carrie neither saw or heard any more of the
intruder.
ntry   ugla, asCarrIe had predicted, was a heartless adventurer,
ru4 r do en intrase a iMr. DeaII by a friend, on board one of the
rta m ba tb s.   M r  neen  f und  him  an  agreea1ble  o pa i n trul ,  ed t
e    ts    r laded and they were about to separate, extend to
hn thn invteation l upon him if he ever visited Philadelphia.
hI imointsater, hoe aleped theinvitation~ ; and on showing letters
ofinrouci.l sine gentlemen of the most res peetal   hrce'
Ir Dcaui made him a welcome visitor. Carrie also extended   i

1~

1 -11 - .11I.- l.---"i.- l--...L vw .A .,.I"I-= .

I
* V
'1


aA

11111 ~3Jii
I ~ dil
ii~ itr
~I~I ill
~ I iii
If
~ ~p~i.1
I
~0
Q

-                          ~       ~      I4AA4I~.A*

I

d2            oxxIE ST. JAMES  OR, THE SUICIDE S CURSE.*
every courtesy due him as an honored guest of her father. But whea
lie declared his love or her, she became aware tat all was not right.
She told him that she had ud desire to share her heart with anoth
.lht notsatisfied with this reply, he repeated hi.s solicitatioas x:) often that
thybecame irrportunities, She then began to read his real character.
Hie had wound himself aLbout the dating parent's heart until the old
mz.a. had began to look upon him as really necessary to the  tare hap-
piness of both himself and daughter. But now that he was satisfica
tht lugs was disgusting to her, ad having uch ofidenc in her
clea.sighted discerpamaent and her judgment ia reading hanechafacterl
he1 fet no hesitation in doing what he thought and feft c minced wa
his duty-that of dismissing Dougias om the hose, and requesting
him not to visit it again.
A dischargin thisaet    pmaaJduht, he fef omewhat relied;
ut was he entirely satisfied?  Xo, dear reader, tebre was stilt a iom
up0W his consieaee. Ile knew that he hiad wronged both Nelsoe and
Carrie by concealing the note addresstd t :o  byr the more than erpl)av
*0h ! what a ingled webwe weaVe
When- Ent we price to deceive."
The night followmgr'i thei eve'.ni  tipon which Carrie had helm tha
ered interview with he father in the iismer-house, he kit more than
, ever how guilty he was.
* (! " he -&amp;mid., " per chilM, whatever was the misfortun ef  .
ar'th, T sht, true-hearted girl, as she is, would have loved him and ehmi
.sillthe imsore fondly to him for the unavoidiEhle misfortune which shaded
his chiihood Oh" would that I had tohd her the truth and shown her
the letter.  lut 't is past- 't is too late to repair thie ijury. I saW by
the list of Mssengers for Caliolrnia his name, aud  rhaps amid h
ares ad changes (of life in that hiad of gold and e'reitement, he ha.
14lrgotten his love far Carrie. And as she seens contented to cherimli
his ii timemory, i wdl never Iention marriage to her again. Henceforth
it Shall be my aim  o study what will most contribute to her happine-
She s evidently plesvid, por girl, with the idea of having th 0(on-
1anionship of -Wy ol maiden, sister, -Debormah. H leaven graat that 111
may arrive soon. 11cr age and experience ennnot but avanli mmuch in
directing my sweet daughter's course that peace and quiehtle, ietwithl
standing~ hmer blasiegl1 hopes and solitary condition, mnay he secured in
t'hui world."
W ith th ese thoughts the old man sank into dream-lard. Hope f r

" I love thee with a sis4ter's love;
I fondly cling to thee
sthe vi  Iclng  ih tstendril
kound the proud forest tree
so clings this poor forsakei heart,
This lonely heart. of mlinle
As if its own existence here
Was linked, false one, with thimie."

" But now, there's coldness a thy heart,
A oloid is on thy brow,
eart waswowt to beat,
So beats it, eveni now.

-'!A

LEONNIE ST. J. ES  o                                --E-
d a fedconscMiece   ha9
his daughter's future peace of mind  a
reprovi  monitors midnih' holy hour, acU silence  ow
Is brooding, like a gentle spirit, o'er
The still and pulseless world.".
Poor Carrie cannot sleep. For two hours she tossed upon her sleep
es.l couch. As the old family clock paled forth the hour of twelv
4;Ie arose ail lit her lamp.
se sangte she nurmulred' " that I cannot sleep iand  how
tltefrngef Nelson appears before me to-night. Oh ! I cannot
hut tIk that he will return to me; and yet it seems so .strange that
he(lid not write toinc-not even one-line.
She approached   little table and opening the drawer drew forth
cure of the eheerished one. She kissed it over and over and bedew cot
it with her tears. Then placing it in its accustomedl l hidingPla(
she sat down to the tableaud wrotc the following exquisitC poemI-lI
I have no harsh or unkind word
To breathe, false one, to thee;
It is not mine to act the part
Which thou hast played to me.
I have no malice now, no wtsh
Of evil on my lips
No stagnant pool of foul revenge
In which my, pen to dip.
We have been friends'together once.
But now those days are pa ,
Those halcyon days and sunny hours,
They were too sweet to last!

41b


7 7t
7w "I7

-1h  4

$1
77
t~r
'it
~
77

4            R, 0ENNIE sr. JA.MESR; 0, THE SUICIDE S CUSE.
Placing the manuscript in her portfolio, she looked at her watch-
"So late!1" she exclaimed; "near one o'clock."  Then extinguishing
the lamp she sought her bud, and in a few moments was sleeping-.
The next morning when she awoke, she felt muc -e-reshbed from the
few hours of sleep Which sh bad enjoyed. About tei o'lock A. M., of
the same day, she had the pleasure of giving welcome to her maiden
aunt, Deborah Dean, one of the most pleasant and apparently contented
old maids in the world.
One morning, about a week after Aunt Deborah's arrival at the house
of her brother, and as she was assisting Carrie in preparing dresses for
a tour to a neighboring city, the street door bell was rung violently.
The next moment a murmuring of voices was.heard, and a servant
0-alled out:
"Oh, Miss Carrie, do conic down
Aunt Deborah and Carrie, alarmed at the unusual noise and confusion,
ran down the stair-way, and in the hall,, to their utter astonishment,
they beheld Mr. Dean lying upon the oil-eloth, surrounded by a crowi I
of curious gazers.
"What is the matter?" asked Aunt Deborah.
* A gentleman stepped towards her and' said: "Madam, I fear Mr.
Dean is dead. ie fell in a fit some fifteen minutes ago, and-has no
spoken or given signs of life since. But here comes Dr. Moore, your
family physician.
At this moment Dr. Moore entered the. front door. Ile ordered the
body to be laid upon a sofa in the parlor, and then shutting out the
crord lf speetators, proceeded to make an examination. At the expi-
ration of a few minutes, during which both Deborah, and Carrie had
stood in almost breathless silence, the Doctor said in a low and solemnu
whisper: " It is all over ;he is dead."
pon receiving this information, poor Carrie gave a faint cry and
sank upon the floor in a swoon. In this condition she was borne by the
faithful, grief-stricken-servants to her room. After she was placed upon
her bed, the Doctor administered a soothing draught. In a few momnenti
0he- opened her eyes. Aunt Deborah.was holding her hand and bathing
her teiples with Cologne water.
"Oh " sobbed Carrie ; "gone !all gone I left aloe, with none to
love men!
" JDo not say so dear child;. yvur aunt Deborah will love you--wil1
be a mother to you. -Come, dearest, he calm. Do not let this misfortuna
weigh toe heavily upon your young spirits."

Ww    : 777

7   ,..............

~~,

4

LENNiiE sT. JAMEs; Ol, T.E sUTCIDES (S...
poor Carrie laid her head upon oher aunt's bot  n adw Sepht l 'had
bitterly. But her young heart had received a blight  ore.  the has
n as she was, somewhat inured her heart to grief, .
efiotin soon settled down into a calm,sad sorrow; and many romarked
with what fortitude the dear young lady bore her irreparable 1oss hew
angelic she looked with her sweti sd, pale face, lad in her sable
robes.
7-i7
17
o -
N-7


CHAPTER VIIL.

/

I lq
I

11

ti-
to
ry,
GTI,
4w
1  a.
,'fl

NXW YORK, SmP. 26th, 18-.
MY DEAit CRImE: Not wislinmg to offendyour fath r by writing -to
you unle.5she gave his sanction, I h.ve written these few lines directed
to) his car~eandhope, after reading it, he will not fail to lundtIfae note
to you. You remember the conversation which took place between us
the day before we parted, in regard to my birth and parentage. I have
more than realized my worst fears upon that iniportaInt subject.
My mother is dead, and thank heaven, though she died of a broken
heart, she died pure ! yes, as pure and spotless as the angels. But my
father still lives, or was living a few years ago. .lRe is a villian of the
deepest and blackest character. Through his heartlessness and descr-
tion of my mother, while I was a mer infant, my dear mother com.
mitted suicide. Of course these circumtances, connected with my past
lifl'e although no fault of mine, will render a union between us impossi-
bde. I do not entertain the least shadow of a'hope that your father will
give his consent, even should your generous nature prompt you-to over-
look my misfortune. But, dear Carrie, whatever may be your feelings,
I wish you to wrote a few lines to me. A few kind words from your
.lear hand will comfort rme in my weary, lonely wanderings, and let me
assure you that whatever my lot may be, or wherever fate may turn my
fotsteps, you will be remembered with the warm, unchanging affection
which I have cherished for you for the last ten years. -Nothing shall
abusee my heart to change towards you, and if we never meet again on
rarth, it will be the memory of your sweet, pure love which shall gpide
y wounded heart in the pathof duty to my fellow men. Should you
1el inclined, and obtain your father' permission to answer this, I will
write to you again. But; do nothing without consulting him. If 1do
not hear from you-if I am nt permitted the dear pleasure cA^ reading
an epistle from your band, I will strive to bear allwith patience, and still
emain unchanged k my fellings ,ftr you. Oh  I could talk to you on
paper for hours, but will close- with hoping that this may find you well,
anid subscribing myself your devoted  -     Nou    WARDELL.

Su
?1IY !'

Come, rouse thee, dearest: 't is not wVel
To let the spirit brood
Thus darkly o'er the cares that swelt
Life's current to a fload.
As brooks and torrents, rivers, all
Increase the gulf in which they fall,
iSuch thoughts, by gathering up the rills
Of lesser griefs, spread real ills;
And with their gloomy shades conceal
The landmarks 1ope would else reveal."
The funeral was over.    A week had passed, during -which Aunt
Deborah and the kind-hearted doctor had used every exertion to divert.
ihe mind of the lonely orphan from her solitary condition. But it was
a hard task for Carrie to assume a pleasant air. Ifers was a double-
sorrow. Now that she couI no longer enjoy the society of her ever
kind and affectionate father, she felt more than ever the want of thro
ear one who had been the companion of all her maiden pleasures and
)1roWS.
"Oh! if Nelson had not left," she would murmur, ''his presence
would assuage much of the anguish which I now feel."
She had confided her secret love and all the circumstances connected
with it to Aunt Deborah, who sympathized with her, and in return
told the story of her own heart-trials.
At the expiration of a week, the lawyer 'upon whom had devolved
the duty of settling up the affairs of the estate, called at the house

-

LEONNIE ST. JAMES OR THE SUICIDE " C4RSE.
und requested Carrie to gatherup all the papers belonging t her deceas-
d father and haid them to him at the earliest opportunity. The, poor
r1 feeling unequal to this painful ask requested her aunt to  erftorin
the duty for her.
"With pleasure, dear Carrie,' said the kind-hearted Deborah.
As she was engaged in this duty, her eye fell upon a note directed to
"Carrie Dean, care of Walter B. Dean," and called out
"fHere, Carrie, is somethir belogi.g to you, dear.
Carrie reached forth her hand and received the note. The superserip-
tion was in the well-remembered hand-writing of Nelson. "What can
this mean?" she asked in a trembling voice; "I never received a note
from  him. There is somtie mystery and perhaps mistake connected with
tIhis. I cannot gather col-rage to read'itmyself, will you do so for me,
Certainly  replied her aunt., She openeI it and read the
{        ,own

tA

i


4-

7'-

2_11.

N  ~,  ~ ~ r--h'm

Pt
I
~8
( I'

48           LEoNsIE ST. JAMES 011, TILE SUICIDE'SCURSE.-
-adinthe leter, -he was often interrupted
by sobs and eca te     t o thelipsof Carrie, such as "Poor. Nel-
sonI poor Nlison!"
Aunt Deborah, too often paused to clear her throat of a choking sen -
sation which  oud rse in spite of her effors ochk it.    She
hadfinished, she arose, and taking Carrie's hand within her own, said:
Dear girl, dry yur tears; there is peace and joy, perhaps' in store
for you. I feel tht he hand of Providence is working for your good
Come, come, cheer up"
But still Carr  ept. '1h0!" she exlaimed amid her  terwhr
could have been my father's object in withholding this letter 'rom
mI~3 "
Pride; nothing but pride;" sighed Aunt Deborah. "Oh! how
Many true hearts have been severed by that curse.! But for pride
might ha.ve been a happy wife. But Come, Carrie, you are your owt
mistress now;-mistress of an immense. fortune,-mistress of ti"s
secret, and' mistress of both these little white hands ; and now, yufl
have onlyto beome a woman'; anid-bya lMOP, maneuvering you Mniy
be able 1to test. this very-,, devoted' youngmian's, love. -And i f you f.v4
him flgse," said Aunt feborah, with a theatrical air,
Whistle hini off, and sen&amp;hiun
Down the wind, a prey to fortune."
Carrie could not help smiling at her aunt's attempt to rouse her; 2and
that smile told more than one tale. It told of a bright, golden glam
of hope which was entwining. itself around her heart, and playing,
bo-peep with the little flutterer.
I will pass over one month. A busy month it had been with Carric
and Aunt Deborah. In that period, all the property belonging to the
estate of the late Mr. Dean had been sold, Carrie had purchased  W
elegant mansion, and had it fitted up according to her own taste. All
of the old servants of her father's household had been retained by the!r
oufg mistress.
"Ad n w, said Carrie, one pleasant morning- just after the break-
fast was over, ",dear Aunt, that all is settled, I want you to eveal to-
me your plan of action in this wonderful plot of yours, which you say,
should it prove successful, will render the remainder of my days, days
of happiness and peace."
"Very well, said Aunt Deborah. with a pleasant smile, "I wil
explain, and if my fair niece-approves, which I think she will, like a
,ood sensible girl as she is, we will lose no time in putting it into prc.'

'F

49-
E s  JAMES 'o  TnlE s
b e reallF
in he firstU pces I             1
ntaey o  men he isBowherehp      s
fu prdear sake. Now ifyou coldinotthprce  b~t~~e
to   h trti
olSy
C anyg la, it wQuld b 'e theeasiest  matteri  h6
of   a   l i f e   fufu t rd e f
"m y dear aunt, I woigd be h Iig 6 ar for
t h e i s f c t io f   i t  w l d  g iv e  les to   'et   h0 o f c  n1"r
Mhm fmhihi
t h e o  l t  h i li \ o * t h t Iki t  s le d   n r n
isfortune.  lit Ieaidthat  e shall no  my1e o g~
Ponofhi.  t is n.W nearly thr~0ea~  e   pi ed an  myve
a Oantf h e artlessness in  not answer  hs  letoo
him paen  r lil  I re nemb e he na t  w  h
charge  of e  i he inh e'W   n j red h r  o i arn1fiel  Sh
lived  in  N i t o ru a t  v i  h er al
feax  it                               rd  h
t wYok paerSand I thilkit r,
ehereabo t-       neah  a  w
edM and Carrie receive
_ItW YouK,-
The adV etisement which y .aused  Yu b  te ct  pa
ear  th-rd Avenue.E
N O .               0', atn
No.-- rs espectfully~         he-a  os
"BaObavo 1" ed Aunt Deborah; ofathwylok
ar Yo    u w  pre are  to  accompany  et  a  nd ark ertou
carem a  at a hoteluntil Ipay a Y vii o  iohe  hyid  an  asertain
. f c a n  r ee r  t h e  wv h e r e a b o u t s  f  t h e  t r u n t .  O h ,   i nw e 's au mal b   h a p p
oya th prectaioefla rein'te  yong couple, she a1h  Carrie
 a     tdothered her  ith kis  .ai n   fo
iget t                   hsada
to t  tn               "for
tion 6fth in              of lesday
some Onehis letter
oi  be  s nted "  'ay     i
The na nxth ~On  teWere o~ thl  a  e'ik shnl
th ie th e  th   tooSa ut o  rhe
hotels
tI-e                       i


-~ ~.JL. IM~ ~

ii

-~  B   ~    '~B~j&amp;W

~)[
~
'I

' "Rik,4"
*AM A,,

50          LEONNIE ST. JAME$; OR, THE $UICWE1s CrSRsE.
"Now," eid Ant Deborah,     I am going to prescribe a little decep-
tion, a  ket   pr0of fthe young Romeo's love for you. We must
leave* preSOi 0e'2nthe mind of Mrs, Field that you are almost pen-
mile"      '
"OheMntW         ~edlCarrie  "what, tell a flb to gn a man9"
-va, tot,0gain1i.;4it to test the strength of his devotion, Just
a little white on; p know"       '' .     -
W0l4 well,    i   have opened to the plot, and so I wiH not
prevent you f onCarringit out your own way."
Yes, dear Cary~   said Aurt Deborah,   the end will justify the
mnen   I will ow proceed to r. Field residence, and gain what
inforniation I  regardingbim,. Who knows but what the fellow may
have loft the. o3gty lik0 many other eartbroken young men, in
searehf o~pingatJ
14  ers,   in:v              u g  -i D il
.4u~n#       ba dressed herselfnpain, neat attire for the pur,
pr     carr  ggOut her pla ofpmleading poyerty., Mrs.,Field- gave
er  ary 'coe      foroe a friendto Nelsq4 was a passport to
her k'i  h
After introdwig herself and in   nga         ii      teparks,-
ad acrtlp      ha    bd was in California          ah-went-on
to state t  ha       en left to her      AuareAnd t4,i weltb o
IM~ os~af-Ycfreerandtb4,,                itow- t for
necessary for her toaAent forome time, and that- sheV.ould like to
leave Carrie. 4er her ehege,
To this.the ol dy freely and cheerfully consented
WhatAnyathin k Aht       can afford to board her for?" inquired
A4unt Deborah. 4' You seebheir'eans Are Limited."
4It hall cost nothing for her board, said Mrs. Field  " all she wil
require, will bewhAittle.hange she will wan fr spending noney.
The aun  eNalson seid ne ee three niotths is ample for the sup
port of s@.   ehobougl~ e bas house there is plenty of room, and
will try to mke. her comfortable"
" Youare yery generous, grs.o ieldt" said Aunt Deborab "and
will try. Ani reward you, wheniLreturn. Of course, she added
ne has been Weod to. ll the lu ries of  e, and  d  not 'wish to de-
prive hie too. ad~emly of thempoor child; so if yo    have noobjeon
pon    e la      e ph              hdo
proi  se to   'e  el  I  hall po ably  be  gone  from  three  to' si
onths andJfeel so happy that I have found you. She toId ie how
. n d you had bee~ to Nelson before he came tol reside with her father,

LEO-NIE ST       R
and' how touch h
found I shuld feA perfe                l,   o
course you till do ae the faoi
.xhNels' ofh little aa 1 the fact of her being
if you dsire thatI should c  soa
hin, withliotd     in     l       lov&amp;  h
he  igude glad to har vxt her  i  oei) ' W~itU(h
boy, batI suppose that hehtrct            1se
in California, and saprhr             i              the
very happY to have we come ou
to undertake sI.lg-agenrne
secret, if you desire me to do               w i
" Oh, as far as I am coucerw  o t  uld rathe tha the
"for if I could have my way aboarrWta h
marry,for I thinehthe i&amp;
poor noW, she
dea that' elson o  hi
ou   t if you   lntk0JI
bout."            eah, on her return to Carrie  idoi
hae sai  AutiDeboabot right. NOW all you have o  d i g
cryotou the  ess       that of humble artist, pd9
eo paintin o   p rafg the b county of a very indulge"
upon wen she  draway, leave an order--of course, with
whwe ah goeraiayoachmaa to call frequentlY and ie yo7n
kolrecre~..s an erg doa  noshink that you bill bliged to
ontue Iotetren t ii which you assume ver long that i,ife
coinues the pssen the same heart he did three yearsaoutt
Ater am angD Paoss ble wardrobe for the part she -was-about up
Aoter aich wa  pd      at turning dresses, Carrie'  tou
r esiece with co  ,ad ad Aunt eborah retuiedt
act asdidecreswi or the aonfb in the absence of its proper *istre
B    ~aT all indirees fome the fieds and acguaintances of Cari, n t
StateiofiNew york.
To Alres fo-iedigafwweks ioth a        e
o    said that  e       wuld give but a faint ideaft
A fo lisd rtrie  ofW Nson, which rs. ield h
A fula ifeupizednporte waithe parlor, and a9        -
omdeoe


V

ii
44~' ~H
'1.
~4i~
'4
4~y
Fj
.141
.4

% "-

CHAPTER IX.

LEO     ST. JAMEs OR, THE SUICIDE
lie,,de vtee'Wr b hefo
lidoe fre 1he  g7 o  h  xoy  irgin, she would, spend
as ed roteplatif    te O;p    ofthah loved face. Mrs. Field
k e  h  o t like t  ad  elson's lefters.
0, yes I  she exclaimed   youw   beoi
do so.                        o-8 o ud sto'pdrmit,mae to
Being furtih               e     ser
Wih-mze1sns   tishered theUoernl
ad meoriz bte,       a     a   y pssd ut What therewas some
Conversatiheon b4stwee
how delightfni          eatVtohm; andddar reader, you know
and 0oth           so eo      WhaTQWe love,  T is.like a sweet
~:~:h~Walm t~thO  Wounded, heart.
eceiteo laigletters from her                1,witch of  aunt,"
ashuetaedingly call her; and thus the time passed on, and
mostwis ed thash
Carsion                    s r-eally poo, . and hadno splendid
"Oh, dear aunt  s     d
does not wo      at 'f  a  i one ot her letters " what if the plot
be            hatifh h      r   n   for another would it not
dreadful?       Never cold rurn to that  ld,..elega  mansion.
No;p could notleave th comfortable, o.ey littl&amp;  ome which I have
adopted,'and again lvei t,
But I do not          nthhartleg fornity bf. fashiomable life.
opef1or4te, yu unhappby      yoph
hope for hb6

NEW YORK
DEAR NELS       ain I seat myse     e   few lines to you.. In
our last letter, you said that you did not feelery well' and that you
were more low spirited than usual. Now, myd-r son, I think that I
have something to communicate which, if you have recovered your
taef  id. Car-

physical health, will ceer YOU y u  a i LLI JY '  A---,%
rie"Dean is under my roof' and'has been for oine week. 'Lthi, Some-
times, when  reet herin the hail or parlor, that she' is an angel; so
pale-so pure-lad in a snowy robe with jet trnuiumgs  She is an
Orphan and poor. ,ler-father died about two months since, and lft
her to subsist upon the charity of an aunt who, as I Utake it, is not
1:111119111111!1F            E

14
V
4'

'S

I lov'd thee in thy piing-time's blushing hour-#
I lov'd thee in thy simmer's ien'd noo-'
1,ld'd thee in the biossomulidu, and flower
The tears of pril, ,ad the ,mile f June
arothen; fernot any, hour w llsee,
The heart grw cold tha t ever beats for theeI
Too late  too at! "murmured a feeble voice, in sti     tones
Yes , too late. Oh! f my life could be spared to see her, to  prmt
one kiss upon her pale. cheek' then, oh, xry God! I could dnpeace!
1 culdgoo the cold nd silent give without a shudder,! If her dear
ha-nd cduid lose Mydying eyes, and her ear, pure ips breathe forth
a praver over my, grate,-oh! the thought is too sweet to cherish! I
must die ! yes, alone without a kind word froi lips I loe."
Such wa the language of Nelson Wardell upon the reception of the
following letter:

114

,6,     " ,

I

lj
tf
"iT    FIT
m   is                                                                                tu     3, i
st


Ill

Li
I~f"',         4'          "':4 ~4" ~

4         T1EoNNit 5, JAMES;' OR THE SUICIDE'S CURSE'
blessed with much of this world's goods. She is very fond of Carrie,
and is anxious, as far as her means will permit, to support her unfortu-
xate niece in the enjoyment of every little lnxury. The  or child is.
engaged in painting landscapes, which I believe will afford her a very
nice little income. But she is too fragile and delicate to perform much
labor.
I know, dear Nelson, that she loves you still, for I have observed her
weeping while gazing'upon your likeness. She does not know that I
have written anything about her to you ; but if you still love her, I
wish you would write a few lines to her; for I do love her so much,.
There was some mistake about the note you told me yon sent her at the
time you wrote to her father; at least I think so, for she told me the
other day that she'had never read a line from you since you left-; and
shethought very strange that yp  efj .wihotone word o her  So, if
youlie, I i k  o aJcd  better write  a few  lines, to)  her.."  I  amd  very
well; and since Carrie, has been with me, I feel perfectly hapy  I
feel, dear Nelson, that God is indeed blessing me in my old days.
Write as oft eiaposeible, and believe me
Your .trrppfieend4ud-mother,,            MAIAR FIELD.
It was within cdty thAt Nelsn read the foregoing letter; and the
eep gush of reret rand sorrow:which followed, caused the fever to rise,
and his nurse, 'anold o6lored man, was obliged to send for the doctor.
Some unusual ecictement has' brought on'this"fever;" said the
,doctor, some   pterlly.'
I think  replied the nurse, "that it was caused by his reading a
letter fr   the States." 1 tried to keep him from reading it; but he
insisted upon doing so, and I could not prevent him.."
During the night Nelson rayed so that it was necessary to call in
several gentlemen to assist in keeping him in bed., He sai~l that Oarrie
"Was star,viig nd tIhat 'ho must go to her.
4bout four o'eJpek in the 'morning, he fell into a quiet sleep, which
continued until about seven. He then opened his eyes, and asked in a
feeble yoice for the doctor. ~T'e'doctor, who was lying upon a sofa in
the'same room, arose and went tthe hedgide. and kindly asked what
he wanted.
" Doctor" said Nelson, "'do you think that I cam$ live?"
"Yes;"4 replied the doctor; "if you will obey my orders, I think
that there is ,o doubt but what you will recover. -You must keep per.
~cetly quiet, pnd take the medicine just as I order it." '
Two Weeks previous to the reception of Mrs. Field's letter, Nelson
iad beenge4 t ewn with typhoid fever, and it was just at the crisis
that he had received and read the epistle; and although the doctor had
butlittle hope of his recovery, he thought it'best t give his patient the
beneft -f adgiux  hope; an4 from that moment, a strong will took
possession of. the invalid to overcome the disease and live for poor Car..

I

44z

Here, poor Carrie burst into tears. This thoughtwas too such fo
her nerves. She arose fron1the table, and throwing herself upon  er
couch, sobbed long and bitterly; until ,vercoine by the .tensity of b
feelings, a lethargy stole over her, and there she lay in a state of rb
dreaminess, forgetful of all surrounding objects. Vhere was  ap upon
her door, but she heard it not. Then a figure stole softly'ip and stood

LEONm ST; JAMES on T1 s9.ilIDE S CUR9S         55
rie's sake; and it was with surprise that the doctor witnessed the rapid
recovery of the sick man.
asedfot the East, he
A few days before the day on which the ma i  for hetEot he
was able to dictate a letter to Mrs. Field in which he to
long illness and rapid recovery; and added tha if New Yoti-  t
get better, he should start by the next steamV              h fordNew ork
also asked her to keep his intentions a secret from Uarrie, as he wiehe
to surprise her.
It happened, very fortunately, that at  e t
Car-rie had gone out to ride. So Mrs Field said' nothlug ibout the
receipt of it; but vith a happiness which she could  y    ea
set about making preparations for the :reeeptio fherAdopted
Carrie, ' the mneani time often wondered if Mrs-'ield te4 heard from
Nelson, but did not venture to make the inquiry t
Nearly three months had passed since Caie hrd            notthe humble
yet comfortable home of her kind friend,ad  tll Dheboar  duereivedno
encouragement to hope that the plot k-id -by Aunt Debora w4Voud, su*e.
ceed. She became more pale and delicate every ade; bopeomhiy.
ing in her heart, and was taking away theLyouth and bloom which
0h4uld have blossomed upon her maiden cheek.
e               'out sx wks fter Mrs. Field had received th letter from
on   Carrie felt more than usually'depressed in spirits. She had
sent the carriage back to the stable without taking her accustomed ride)
and to Mrs. Field's eaer inquiry of the cause, she answered ,
"I wish to write to my aunt."
She then went to her room, and began writing sometmhv lik the
NEW Yor,            e
D Au AUsT - I have endeavored o conceal from you the real state
of my health, but I fear that I shall never enjoy the  nth ein
god health-againi. I have now been here almo1 th re mothsant
Feha  eeierd a leterfrom him in answer to oe she wrote shortly
afer I came here; but as she has observed a 'strict silence upo  th
- subject, I think that he mst haeaa nged in  fe eriig  tovad loe
And oh!. painu thugh.      erta    ehsfudaohrt oe

4
44


"- WON'                                                                    "  "      44

56

aoxIE ST JaMs; Ol, Tsac  )E's sCURSE.

I
1
I f'I i

I
N

-4 '4
'-~-           -'

by her side. She v a4 still ut conscious of the presence of a human
being.
" Carie;" Wbispred the gentle, muotherly.voice of  rs. ie d,   are
-you 'sleeping?
Carribopendhk'eyes, and while a' faint smile played over her fea-
turescaid: w2                           "
"'Oh !1.excused ; :1 did not intend to sleep' IHave you been waiting
long?"
"Nodear, justAamb in.. I amorry to fmdyou so indisposed. I
have a' itlindipfse for gou. Do you.hink yow caIRhear a little
'haek, iflitisp s~by agreeable onie? "
~",'yg "liled t"rrie; and her heart yWOet thump, Athump; for
shigdessed thai tmw news from Nelson, which Ms. Field had to im-
part; "0 yes;    am always able to bear pleasant news. Proceed, for
Iahniallab ieftohea
"WelI ibtild  oik   ' to hear fromthe long abseiit 'one, Nelson
Wardelrr'4" -
aies face lihed up with a bright same ; dy beamni forth from
hbr deep blu e  s and IHoe,with henrji throng, dii ed  on every
feature.
ye    ht oh       I tli me is e woll does h e'think of me ?
doesh    ?
ee she checked Ierself and hesitated; then breathing forth again
she exclaimed
Does he love me still ?n"
do ' e&amp;i'ed a dep, minlyvoice, and the next mnonien the' poor
girl was clasped in the arms of Nelson Wardell.,
Mrs. FildYer diseretly slid out of the room, and the lovers were
loft to tem  so     cursthe eder can guiss how one hour was
passed
Nelsoi,rstill thidiing her a-penniless orpharI, declared his devotion,
and added
"cannot'ft      u d%       jtie,
notupp     t ou, dear Carrie, in tle elegant s  yo'ur father
did ; but I have sufficient to maea comfortable living'; and it shall be
the studs of.nif' lifetydoa~i i thepoiwer if man to matke you hlappy.'
telegraphic dispatch brougltintf eborah       , to New'York the next
day, and it ~as at'aed'that th&amp;mdding .shouldtake' place just one
mouth from that d~y, it the :reidnc oft the latter las Mrs. Fiel
arid Nelsofi weie led to believe So 'after a pleasant visit of a week,
Aunt Deborah returned to Philadelphia to nmike, preparation for the

loo'-

I

LEONNIE ST. JAMES; OR, THE SUICIDE s CURSE.        57
great een4. -Of course no pains or .expense were spared on the occa-
sion. At the proper time invitations were sent out, and-of course all
were s rprised at the sudden, Announcement of a wedding.
One Week before theevening on which the wedding was to take phice,
Carrie bid good-by to Nelson and Mrs. Field, and returned to her man-
sion inPhiladelphia, where she was to remain'until the wedding came
"Oh, my sweet love!" said Nelson ;' how shallI live a whole week
without you ? Now- that we have been reunited, I feel that life would
he a blgnk without your dear presence."
During the three weeks'awhich they had remained' together, Nelson
had, related to Carrie the history of his unfortunate mother, and also
of the terrible death of his father.
When Nelson showed Carrie the picture of Leonnie, she was almost
struck duMb with admiration.
"What a sweet face!' she exclaimed; and vhen they parted, she
requested Nelson to let her take the picture with her, to which he con-
sented.
The week passed. The day--the eventfuly came,. apd Nelson in
company with Mrs. Field started for Philadelphiia.At n clock they
arrived and fonnd a carriage with Aunt Deborah at the dep(t, waiting
to take them to the residence of the bride.
Oh, what a-'beautiful place " exclaimed Mrs. Field, as Aunt Ijebo
r-l pointed out the park and elegant house, where the wedding was
to take place.
" Yes," replied Aunt Deboramh, "I think it a very delightful phlee.
and I trust that Nelson and Carrie will enjoy a pleasant honey-moon
there. It will be much more pleasant than traveling this warm awl
dusty weather."
Nelson was silent. Ile was too muich engrossed with the happy
thought of meeting Carrie to even hear what was passing.- -The reader
can imagine his thoughts more easily than I can express them in words.
.After long years of snifering, during which time a dark cloud had ol-
scried the horizon of his'future hopes, and it seemed that he was thrown
ut in the midst of a vast sea of nothingness, like a a mariner east 0t
upon a lr   td   um'A11nifless ocean  without guide  r compass, left to
catch at chance straws to buoy lim up and 'waft him along amid the
dIark wavpt~of changing life-without hope, without aim ; and nion the
vessel of promise was in full view.. Love, sweet, r ysy Love,' wigh suil-
ing lips aud' sparkling eyes camne lancing before him with conteutnment

I'

4~1
4    'I

Moll

'Al
10


.,Iwo'7                                                                                                           ~  'j~~

1/1

I

58          LEONNIE ST. JAMES oR, THE SUICIDE S CURSE.
in one hand and happiness in the other, while gentle Prudence held
forth a banner emblematic of her presence, upon-which was written in
golden letters- PLET,"    A whole train of beautiful spirits was
riing up before his enraptured gaze when his mind was suddenly
brought back to the reality of earthly things by the sweet voice of Car-
rie calling to a servant to run:tnd open the park gate. The next mo-
ment he caught sight (?f her sweet, smiling face, and received a wave of
welcome by a nowy' handkerchief,
The wedding was'over, a week had passed, and yet no arrangements
had been 'made for the future residence of Nelson and his bride, LIe
had placed in a bank upon his arrival in Ner York the sum of fifteen
thousand dollars, and thought several times of consulting Carrie in
'regard to business affairs. Of course he thought Carrie had rather
remain in Philadelphia; and if so, he would make arrangements to go
into business in that city. Ile sat thinking this matter over one morn-
ing, while Carrie and Aunt Deborah were holding a private cerfer6nce
in an adjoining-room. Ile had observed considerable confusion, ard
'had heard some whispering ; but thinking that it would be in-
polite to interfere with thearrangements of the -ladies, he remained
quiet. In a few moments Aunt D~eborah came to the door, and with
som'ethingof mystery in her tone, said:
WNelson, please to just step into the next room."
ie arose and followed her. Carrie met him at the door,' and taking
him by the hand, pointed to alife-sized portrait enclosed in a splendid
frame, banging upon the wall.
" My mother's. pictne! " exclaimed Nelson, in tones of mingled
surprise and pleasure.
" Yei," said Carrie, "I took the miniature to Mr. ,' the best
artist in the United States ; and. do you not think it 'a splendid and
perfect production."
" I do, Indeed," said 'Nelson, wiping a tear from his cheek. "Oh,
arrie, you are an angel! But, dearest, it m t have cost quite an
amount of 'money. Permit me   to send him A check upon my banker."
" 0, no," cried Carrie, "the bill is settled. And now, dear Nelson,
ihat I feel convinced that you love me for myself alone-that you loved
me" as the poor, penniless orpha , 'I trust that you will not love the
wealthy heiress less."
"' What do you mean, dearest ? come, explain;:" said Nelson, hold-
.    4g er to his heart. "Come, come, tell nc what you mean."
"Oh' nothing ; only, that I have practiced Alittle deception upon

L

LEONNIE ST. JAMES; ORt, THE SUICIDE'S CURSE.
you, just to test your love. Instead of being the dependent niece ot my
' witch of an old aunt,' I am heirees to seventy thousand dollars; and,
that thismnension and grounds, which you so much admire,.is to be our
future home; that is, if you wish it, to be so. I amyour wife, and
all that I possess is yours, my own de r husband."
Mrs. Field could not be prevailed upon to shares with her "dear
children," as she termed them, their elegant honie.:So, with  kind,
faithful female domestic, she returned to her ownquiet home in New
York.
'Aunt Deborah remained with her niece, the same, good-natured, and
apparently happy-hearted creature we found her.' And the lhst time
the writer caught sight of her, she held a tiny babe iR her arms wrapt
up in any quantity of flannel, while she glided lightly and noiselessly
about the chamber, where lay the pale-faced mother, who had fallen
into a gentle slumber.
4 letter fell from the hand of old Mrs. Field; and taking her 'specs'
from her nose to wipe away the tears which had gathered in her dim
eyes, she said, in a broken voice:
"Got a babe; a little girl. Oh, my God!' spare it to make glad their
hearts'; and may they be spared to train and guide it in the ight path.
May no rude blast chill'its tender maidenhood. Yes," she cognued,
" and they have called 't Leonnie."
At this exclamation t ie old woman burst into tears; and falling upon
her knees, she breathed forth the following prayer:
"Oh, Heavenly Father ! keep this sweet blossom of true love and
affection from the wily snares of tlie base betrayer. May the history a
of her grand-mother's wrongs and sufferings prove a warning to Ler,
and may she have strength, should the hour of trial come, to resist
temptation.
Not long after this event, the old lady passed away, in a full hope of
salvation, through er Redeemer ; and in a quiet spot near theresidence
of Nelson, she rests in peace.
And nowin taking leave of this happy fainilyNelson and Carrie,
with their little pledge of devoted love, and good"Aunt Deborah, who
was instrumental in bringing about all this peace and felicity, that for
the meekness and patience with which they bore thcii- several afflictions,
which Providence, in its all-wise arrangements saw fit to visit upon
them,.that they have well earned the happiness, which like a rosy
crown encircles them, a al may thejflive long to cnjoy it in undisturbed
peace.

4 ~1
t

I'
'I

0

i.


__        4

IV
, If

*

A

J

JY
~~L-~W ~

LOLA MONTEZ.
BY ROWENA GRA  TELM' E.

thy; all inust admit. Her purseiwas ever open to the call for charity.
[Ier carriage was often stopped, that she might descend to relieve the
unfortgnate cripple ; and the mendicant was never turned froim her
loor, without having cause to bless the little white band and pleasant
face of their benefactr'ess. lieti deeds of charity were not heralded to the
world through the press, in flaming characters, for the purpose of mak-
ing her popular, or securing the patronage of the pitblic during certain
theatrical engagexients-; and although she may not have contr uted
largely and publicly to orphan asylhms atid charitable instituti ns, she             *
found and relieved niany a poor little orphan by the waysid  and sent
them home with glad hearts. " God bless Lola Montez, and may His
blessing go with her!" I once heard an old Irish woman exclaim.
Several poor families whom I have myself fisited,4Iave spoken of the
unsolicited relief which they have received froni her. 'And ladies who
at other times looked upon this noble woman as a person unworthy of
their notice, when they were about to take up a collection for the im-
provenuent of their church, would present the .subscription list to her
with full confidence of receiving a large donation
She was an ardent admirer-ay, I might say - a worshiper of the
beautiful in natur .  She loved flowers, and- seemed to draw new life
7 7 - 7                                                     RI
0, "t   kj

lie
AN1

(           LEONNIE ST. JAMES ORl, T HE SUICIDE'S CURSl4.
And now, dear reader,.a word to you. Do not let misfortune crush
you; for when the hand of sorrow presses hardest upon you, then your
hitherto pretended friends will floe from you. 'T is then that you will
need all your strength of body and energy of mind to stand up under
the accumulated load of grief. - But if you keop ,a firm heart, with -
consciousness-of doing right, all the combined powers of your endmies
will fail to triumph over you. The darkness and gloom will pas saway,
and you will be able to cry aloud, in a triumphant voice-Grief aind
sorrow, 1e gone! and the smiling angel of Peace will weave a circle of,
happiness whichwill cheer you on when the final hour arrives in which
y   1, shall lay side the mortal fo the immortal,
4

"After life's fitful fever she sleeps well."
Yc, Lola Montez is dead,  "She his passedthat bourne whence no
traveler ever returns." 'lving but a limited knowledge of her private
character, I shall Wiite accoiditig to the opinion I have formed from
report.
That ,he was a woman, of more than ordinary ability,- talent and
genius, no one having the slightest knowledge of' her can deny. That
she possessed a fioble, generous heart. filld with kiridness and svmna-


LOLA MONTtZ-BY ROWENA GRANICE STEEL
from their beauty and fragrance. We find her making them her com-r
panions even after Reason had deserted'her throne. If she had faults,
they must have sprung from lack of careful training during-the tender
years of childhood; or, perhaps, disappointed hopes in girlhood. The
richest soil often produces the most p6isonous and cankerous weeds, if
not properly cultivated. Some early blight or bitter disappointment
may have turned the current of the placid stream into rough and angry
waters. At a tenderagealone and friendless, she launched her frail
bark upon the broad ocean of public opinion; and without counting
upon adverse winds, she thought to stebr clear of shoals and quick-
sands. There were many ways before her, and if, through lack of ex-
perience, she chose the wrong one, there perhaps was no kind voice to
call her back; but thousands of brainless, heartless ones to cheer her
on to ruin, for the mere satisfaction of witnessing the wreck which they
had helped to, make.  or the last fewyears of her life, as if weary of
the mistaken course she had pursued, she turned- her mind upon more
useful matters, and became an humble follower in that faith which, let
us hope, has fitted her for the companionship of the blessed in the realms
of that unon9wn shoreto which the great and pioud, as well as the
poor and humblejmust sooner or later be summoned,' to answer for the
deedscommitted here. I trust her own sex, at least, -,ill never permit
a harsh remark to pass their lips inregard to her past life. Dear lady
readers, speak only of her good qualities; for had she, like many of
you, been surrounded by kindly influencs-her young mind trained
to moral worth-her ambition checked by the gentle and loving voice
of a mother,; had brothers And sisters, and kind friends gathered
around the fireside of her early home and watched her into woman-
hood, with her lofty and towering talent, she might have been, the
1rihtest ornambent of the present age.
"Of the absent and the dead,
Speak nothing but good."

*

.9

go'

JO. HAMILTON, not. Att'y, Auburn.

I

THOMAS H. WILLIAUS, I

HAMILTON &amp; WIIAMS.
ATTORNEYS AT LA4
AUBURN, PLACER    COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
Will give prompt attention to aOll CIVIL BUSINEsS
entrusted to their care.
D. W. LUBECK
DEALER IN
FANCY AID STAPLEDRY G60615.
(ROUND  CORNER) MAIN AND COMMERCIAL STREETS,
Goods Sold at City Prices. Country Orders Promrptly
Attended to.
WM1. Ii. PARKINSON'S.
DRYV       00,81 STORE 31
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER ITJ
SILKS, SHAWLS, EMBROIDERIES,
MILINERY AND DOMESTIC DRY GOOD8, OIL CLOTHS,
MATTIJNf, CAPETING, ETC.
HAfRDY'S BRICK BUILlDING, CORNER OF MAIN AND EAST STREETS,
.U]E3UR1%T, C.AL

Jlj

Orders. from the Country carefully filled.
fW-5
WO/

j 'ti,

MIN11  Q-

PI q
f,
169

i

F


JR.GWYNN'S
GROCERY AND VARIETY STORE
AURURN, CAL.
1AVING ON HAND a fresh supply of Groceries and Provisions,
and almost every article required for family use; also every de-
scription of9 FAR ING and GARDEN     SEEDS, Farmers
and Gardeners, and the Public generally are invitedto call and examine
my stock.                             J. Rt. GWYNN.

na 5.E

ATTORNEY and COUNSELOR

AT LAW-.

Office in Auburn, opposite the- Temple Saloon.
DR. J. MARKS~

K

REPRODUCED FROM THE COPY IN THE
HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LIBRARY

FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION

AN-D (U R GEO N,

Office next door to Orleads Hotel, Auburn, Cal.
DL L L MSERS

MECHANICAL

AND SURGEON'

DENTIST.

Office in Gibson's Stone-Building, Carner of Main
and Court sts.; AUBURNt

*I.

4

7

P H Y SIC I A N

~t p
p

I


  
             
         
       
   
