
    ----CITATION----
        Nauman, Mary D. (1839-1920). The Enchanted Princess .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7633
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The enchanted princess 
            
                  ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    "Te pel-o d wee-- lntee Minte oe, i. Pag 38   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. BY MARY D. NAUMAN, AUTHOR OF "SIDNIY ELLIOTT," "TWISTED THREADS," ETC.  "Please tell me a story." PHLADELPHA: CLAXTON, REMSEN & HAFFELFINGER, Nos. 819 & 821 MARKET STREET. 1872.   Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, by CLAXTON, REMSEN & HAFFELFINGER, in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.  STEREOTYED BY J. PAGAN & SON.    CHAPTER I         PAGE HOWIT BEGAN  .    .  .  . .  .   II CHAPTER II. HOW THE KING TOOK IT.  .     .   .  20 CHAPTER III. HOW THE ENCHANTER BEHAVED  .  .  .  .  26 CHAPTER IV. How THE OLD FAIRY ACTED .   .        33 CHAPTER V. How THE PRINCESS GREW UP    . . .  .  42 CHAPTER VI. How THE PICTURE CAME TO BE PAINTED  .   50. CHAPTER VII. HOW THE PRINCES WERE DECEIVED  .  .  .  6 CHAPTER VIII. How THE PRINCESS WAS ENCHANTED   .  .  73 ix   X         CONTENTS. CHAPTER IX.         PAGE    I HOw THE YOUNG PAINTER FELT  .  .  .  .  8 CHAPTER X.                I HOW THNGS WENT WITH THE PRINCESS .  ..   90 CHAPTER XI. HOW SELIM LEFT THE' SILVER ISLANDS . .  .  IOI CHAPTER XII. HOW A MOUSE FRIGHTENED THE GIANT .    .  6 CHAPTER XIII. HOW THE PRINCE WAS LOST AND FOUND       1 . 130 CHAPTER XIV. How SELIM REMEMBERED THE PRINCESS   .   . 142 CHAPTER XV. HOW THE DWARFS TREATED THE PRINCE   .  .  156 'CHAPTER XVI. How SELIM WENT THROUGH THE DARK COUNTRY   171 CHAPTER XVII. How THE FROGS CAME OUT OF THE CASTLE .  .  82 CHAPTER XVIII. How IT ENDED  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 196   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. CHAPTER I. HOW IT BEGAN. ONCE upon a time-so my grandmother always used to begin, and if her grand- mother had told the story, she would have be- gun it in exactly the same words - Once upon a time there was a king and queen who had no children, and they thought it very hard indeed, that, while some of the poorest laborers in the -country had as many as eight or ten little boys and girls of their own, they should not even have one. Now, this king and queen, who had every- thing else they could possibly wish for, were neither happy nor contented; and although II   I2  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. they lived in a beautiful palace, and had fine clothes to wear, and all sorts of delicious things to eat, they were never satisfied, because they had no little child to pet and play with; and even if they had been promised one, I do not know how they ever would have agreed, for the king wanted a little prince, and the queen wanted a little princess; and it is always a great pity when husband and wife are not of one mind. The queen was sitting, one day, upon her throne, all by herself, with her crown on her head and her sceptre in her hand, and thinking to herself how very, very nice it would be if she only had a pretty little girl of her own, with blue eyes and bright golden curls, to play with and talk to,-when all of a sudden a mouse, pur- sued by a huge gray cat, ran across the floor, and took refuge in the folds of the queen's robe. Unlike some ladies, who scream and faint if they see a mouse, the queen pitied the harmless little animal, and taking the-trembling creature in her hand, she drove the cat out of the room. Then shutting the door, she gently put the mouse down, expecting to see it run directly   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     13 into its hole. But what was her astonishment when she saw that it not only sat still just where she had placed it, but that, as she looked at it, it changed slowly into one of the most beauti- ful little fairies she had ever seen, with butterfly wings and a mouse-colored dress. And the fairy began to grow until she was exactly twelve inches high, and then she stopped growing. And the queen was so delighted with the pretty little fairy that she made a very low courtesy to her, which the fairy as politely returned. "So you know that I am very much obliged to you," the little twelve-inch fairy said. "And to prove to you that I am not ungrateful for saving me from the great enchanter Feliscat, who would have devoured me if you had not. come to my assistance, I promise to grant you one wish, if its accomplishment lies within my power." Of course there was one thing that the queen wished for more than anything else in the world, and she was so delighted at the idea of getting it, that she never even thought of her husband, the king, who most probably would have liked 2   "  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. to say something on the subject. So, without X a moment's hesitation, she told the fairy that a she would rather have a nice little princess of j -her own than anything else. I imagine that the fairy knew beforehand just exactly what the queen wanted, for she put her - hand in her pocket and took out a tiny little nut, no bigger than a pea, which she presented to the queen, telling her at the same time that ? she must keep it very carefully until it was as : large-as a walnut, and that then she should crack  it, and be very careful of whatever she might -find in it. And then the fairy disappeared, with- out waiting to be thanked. Now the queen thought it was very odd that 1 the fairy, knowing what she really wanted, '  should have given her, instead of a little prin-  cess, nothing but a little round nut, looking as much like a brown pea as anything else, and ! should then tell her to be careful of it. If she ? had followed her first impulse, she would have !I thrown the little nut out of the window; and ! then my grandmother never could have told me I the story, nor could I have told it to you, for A   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     15 what is in it would never then have happened. But she was afraid to do this; for if a fairy gives you anything, and then tells you to be careful with it, there is no knowing what might come to pass if you were to disobey. So the queen determined to take good care of the nut; and as it might have fallen out of her pocket and been lost, had she put it in there, she laid it very care- fully in a little warm, round nest a robin had built just outside of the window, knowing it would be safe there; for Dame Robin and the queen were very good friends, and were in the habit of obliging each other. But, strange to say, the queen forgot all about the little round nut, after she had put it so care- fully into the robin's nest; and had it depended upon her, the nest might have lain there until now, if after a while Mrs. Robin had not noticed that the little nut, which at first was no bigger than a pea, began to grow. And it grew larger every day, -until it was fully as large as the big- gest walnut .which ever grew on a tree; and although Mrs. Robin was very willing to oblige her friend the queen, she had no wish to see   I6  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. her own smooth, pretty blue eggs pushed out of their place by a thing that looked like no- thing in the world but a great walnut, such as you can find by hundreds any day in the fall, under the walnut-trees. So Mrs. Robin went and told the queen; and the queen, whose name, by the way, was Amo- retta, was terribly frightened at the thought that she had forgotten the precious little nut. To be sure, it had been perfectly safe in Mrs. Robin's nest--safer, perhaps, than it would have been in her own pocket; for things will fall out of people's pockets, and Queen Amoretta herself could not possibly have taken better care of the fairy's gift than- Mrs. Robin had done; but then, the little twelve-inch fairy had told her that she must be very careful with it, and the very first thing she had done had been to forget all about it. "What in the world am I to do now?" said the queen, as much puzzled as a school-boy is over a Rule of Three sum. And she showed that she was terribly frightened, for she imme- diately began to dance a Polska all- by herself   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     17 around the room. For there had been a great many balls lately at Court, and the queen had been at all of them, and had been so very gay that -she had no time to think of anything but dancing. And Queen Amoretta. did not know that she was dancing when she began to caper around the room. Mrs. Robin watched, the queen for a few mo- ments, and then - she was a very sensible bird - she hopped up to her friend, and pecked at her dress in order to attract her attention. "My dear friend," she said to the queen, as loudly as she could,- "I can see no sense in your dancing, for two very good reasons. The first is, that there is nobody here to look at you, and admire you, so that it is all thrown away; and the second reason is, that it is doing you no good, and is of no possible use." "I don't know what to do," Queen Amoretta said, stopping her dance, and throwing herself carelessly into the great throne at the end of the room. "I wills tell you what to do," chirped Mrs. Robin. o*       B   I8  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. "I really wish you would," Queen Amoretta replied. Mrs. Robin put her head to one side. "The first thing to be done is, to take the nut out of my nest; the second will of course be, to crack it." It was such very good advice that the queen immediately thought she would take it, and rather wondered at herself that it had not oc- curred to her before. So she got off the throne, and walking to the window, looked into Mrs. Robin's nest. Sure enough, there lay the nut, pushing the pretty blue eggs all to one side, and taking up so much room that the little round nest could barely hold all that was in it. So the queen picked the nut up very carefully--she would have felt very sorry had she hurt the smooth blue eggs Mrs. Robin was so proud of; and then she was just a little bit afraid of the nut, which, for all she knew, might be able to do her any amount of mischief. However, she got it out without any diffi- culty, and put it down on a table. And then,   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    19 just as Mrs. Robin and the queen were begin- ning to discuss the best way of cracking it, a very wonderful thing happened. The nut be- gan to grow; and it grew till it was as large as a squash; and then it grew to the size of a pumpkin; and then it stopped growing, and suddenly turned into the most beautiful carved walnut cradle that ever was seen; and lying in the cradle, fast asleep, was the loveliest little baby-princess that can possibly be imagined. She was just as pretty as she could be. And the queen thought that the fairy Musimousa- I forgot to tell you her name before-was the most charming fairy of all the fairies in Fairy Land.   CHAPTER II. HOW THE KING TOOK IT. THE queen was so delighted with the ar- rival of the little princess, that she imme- diately rang the bell, and desired the tall foot- man who answered it to say to the king that she-wished to see him at once, and that he must leave everything,- even the most important state affairs, such as counting out his money, or anything of the kind that he might be en- gaged in, as this was more important than the most important of them could possibly be- and come to her at once. And the footman, seeing that the queen was very much in earnest, ran 'up-stairs and down-stairs, and to my la- dy's chamber, as they called the queen's sit- ting-room, and there he found the king, who was seated on the throne, and yawning because he had nothing to do; and the footman bowed, 20   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    21 and told him that Her Majesty Queen Amo- retta desired to see His Majesty the King, as soon as possible, on very particular and im- portant business. The king did not feel the slightest degree of curiosity--men never do - as to what the queen wanted with him; but he was very considerate, and so he told the tall footman to run and tell the queen that he would be with- her immedi- ately, as he would not for any consideration keep her waiting. And then he got down from the throne, and gathering his robes around him, he proceeded very leisurely -for kings are never in a hurry- to the queen's chamber. He was very much astonished, and of course very much delighted, when the queen, smiling all over her face, presented to him the lovely little princess, in her walnut cradle. Meantime, Mrs. Robin, having more important business at home, and seeing that the queen had forgotten her, had flown out of the window, and settled herself as comfortably as possible upon her four blue eggs. "Why, where did this charming little prince   22  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. come from?" asked the king. For you see, he wanted a little prince, and of course thought he must have what he wanted. And then the queen remembered that at the time she had seen the fairy Musimousa, she had forgotten all about the king; but that would not do to tell. "It is a little princess," the 'queen said, very quietly. And then she told the king how it was that the young lady had arrived. She was a very truthful queen, so she told the king just exactly how the whole thing had happened. And strange' to say, the king got angry, which is a thing men never do, or rather never ought to do. But, any way, right or wrong, the king was angry because, when the thing was left for the queen to decide, she had not chosen a little prince instead of a little princess. And the queen thought that as she, and not the king, had saved the mouse-fairy from the enchanter, she had a perfect right to ask for the thing she most desired. But it is very probable that the two would have had a quarrel on the sub- ject, if just at this moment the little princess   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     23 had not begun to crow and coo in the most de- lightful manner; and the queen, thinking it was a pity to quarrel about anything so charming, turned to the king, and smiling as she used to do in the days of their courtship, said to him: "My dear king, just see how pretty she is! To be sure, it is a great pity we have not a little prince, too; but since we have this dear little princess, let us make her as welcome as ptossi- ble; and I hope Your Majesty will pick out a very pretty name for her." This pleased the king, and he began to smile. And the little princess saw this, and she began to smile too, and that pleased the king so much that he got into a very good humor. "As she was presented to you by a mouse, my dear queen," he remarked, "I think you had better call her Musidora." "It is a very long name for such a little prin- cess; but then she will be bigger by-and-by," observed the queen. "Too long for every-day use," said the king. "I never thought of that. We might call her Welcome, for that she is already."   24   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.        "Indeed she is," said the queen; "and I think  it: would be a very pretty name." So that important matter was decided; and the king immediately went to his counting- - house, where he gave audience every morning - and counted out his money. And when he was - there, he sent his page, Little Boy Blue, to the heralds, to bid them announce to every one that - the little Princess Welcome had come; and to the bell-ringers, to bid them ring all the bells for joy that there was at last a little baby-prin- cess in the palace. And then the next thing to think about was the christening, to which every- body who was anybody at all was to be invited; and as the queen was so much engrossed with the little Princess Welcome that she had no time to think about or care for anything else, the king had to take charge of this; and as he had really very little to do, it made quite a pleasant occupation for his leisure hours.  X And by this time, too, the king was so de- ' lighted with the little Princess Welcome that he had almost forgotten to wish she had been X a prince. So it was very willingly that he sent a Little Boy Blue to blow his horn at the doors   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    25 of all the grandees in the country, and to carry the king's compliments to all the fairies of his acquaintance, and invite them all to come to the grand christening which was to come off at the palace. It was to be a very grand affair, just as grand as it possibly could be -as grand as money could make it; for when such things only come off once in a lifetime, it is as well to do them in as much style as is possible. So Little Boy Blue, the king's pretty page, in his uniform of blue velvet, went and blew his horn, and carried his master's compliments, just as he had been told; and the heralds went out, and -the bells rang, until everybody in the king- dom knew about the coming of the princess, and on what day she was to be christened. And the little princess grew bigger and pret- tier every day. And out of Mrs. Robin's four pretty blue eggs had come four Masters and Misses Robin, and Mrs. Robin was so busy taking care of them that she had no time to go in and see her friend the queen. But the queen did not miss her, for she, too, was busy taking care of the little princess.. 3    CHAPTER III. HOW THE ENCHANTER BEHAVED. N the days in which Queen Amoretta had been a very young and very pretty girl,- she was still young and pretty, for people in the days which we now call "once upon a time " never grew old or ugly,- but in the days before she was married to the king, her present husband, the great enchanter Feliscat had seen her, and had fallen in love with her. But as the great enchanter Feliscat did not bear a very good reputation among his neighbors, and was besides very ugly, and grew uglier, too, every day, the pretty Princess Amoretta would not even listen to him; and when at last he did get an opportunity to say to her, "Will you marry me?" it was easy to say, "No," but not so easy to be polite and say, "No, I thank you." However, she said it, very politely; but the 26   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    27 great enchanter Feliscat was very angry in consequence; and when the Princess Amoretta married the King of the Silver Islands, he never even sent her a wedding-present. Indeed, if he had been able, he would have done the king and queen a- great deal of harm; but they were both on good terms with all the fairies, and as the fairies were much more powerful than he was, he could do nothing. The only thing he could do- and that he did--was to prevent the air-fairies from carrying any little children to the palace, and that was the reason there had been no little princes and princesses there. For all the children in the Silver Is- lands were brought from the Beautiful Land by the air-fairies; and the only way to get there was by passing through the dominions of the enchanter, and of course no one could pass through them without his permission. So when-he heard, that, in spite of all his ef- forts, the good fairy Musimousa had succeeded in presenting the queen with a little girl, he was more angry than ever. He had never forgiven Queen Amoretta for refusing to come and live   28   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.       i with him in the Dark Country over which he i reigned; and yet it was not surprising that she  should have disliked to go there, for everything in it was dark and misty, and the people living I in it were ugly, shapeless, and deformed, and, like their king, dealt in witchcraft and enchantments, for such things love darkness and hate light. The enchanter knew perfectly well, however, that, powerful as he was, he could do nothing outside of his own dominions, or in any other country, unless he was assisted by some person or fairy living in the country where he might wish to do harm. The king and queen of the Silver Islands were too much beloved by all their subjects, and the people were all too much rejoiced at the arrival of the little princess, for any of them to be willing to do even the most trifling thing to assist him; and the enchanter would never have been able to carry out his evil intentions, if he had not happened to re- member that in the King of the Silver Islands' dominions there lived an old, old fairy, who was the king's great-aunt, and who had always been a very troublesome member of the family, be-   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     29 cause, not content with her wisdom as a fairy, she had studied witchcraft and enchantment. And the great enchanter Feliscat knew that this would enable him to influence and control the old fairy Malevola, because people and fairies who do one wrong thing are very likely to do another. So the very first thing that the enchanter did after he heard the news, was to go straight to the place in which the old fairy lived. He was very lucky, he thought, to get there just before Little Boy Blue. So he changed himself into a great dog, and frightened the king's page so terribly by his growlings, that the boy forgot all about the king's compliments, and gave the invitation to the christening in such a way that the old fairy got angry, and bade Little Boy Blue to be gone about his business, and to get out of her house a little faster than he had come into it. And she made such horrible faces, and got so angry, that the page was only too glad to get out of her house as quickly as possible. Then the enchanter, laughing to himself all the time, returned to his own shape, and walked 3*   30  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.  in to see the old fairy. He found her still mut- tering and grumbling to herself, and it was not many minutes before she had told him all about the king's page, and all his impertinence. In fact, she was in just the humor in which the enchanter had desired to find her; and so he sat  down, and without any difficulty he persuaded the old fairy to act under his directions; and as Malevola really thought that the king, her grand-nephew, had intended to insult and an- noy her, and also because it was the greatest pleasure she had to be able to injure any one, she and the great enchanter Feliscat, who was fa- mous for being very cunning, concocted between them and planned so much mischief, that if they only were able to carry it out, the king and oqueen of the Silver Islands would soon wish that the little Princess Welcome had never come to them. The christening was to come off on the very next day, so that there was not much time to be lost. It was so long since the old fairy Ma- levola had been to an entertainment, that she had a good deal to do in order to get herself   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     31 ready. For she was so old, and so ugly, and so malicious, that nobody asked her out if they could possibly avoid it; and the king, her grand-nephew, did not like her any better than any one else, but he invited her to the christen- ing only because it does not answer to be any- -thing but polite to one's relations, even if they don't happen to be very agreeable. But .the old fairy Malevola was so enchanted at the idea of being able to do something hateful, that she thought it no trouble to look over her stock of finery, and to get herself ready for her great- grand - niece, the pretty Princess Welcome's christening. There was only one little thing, however, which she would not have liked, nor would it have pleased the great enchanter Feliscat, either; but then neither of them knew it.. It was simply this: that Mrs. Robin, flying around in search of food for her nestlings,had found some fine fat earth-worms just under the old fairy Malevola's window, and happened to overhear the whole conversation. And--Mrs. Robin was a prudent bird-she never lost a   32  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. moment, but set off, not forgetting, however, to give her young ones their supper; and with- out saying a word to Queen Amoretta--for that would only have annoyed her-she went in search of the fairy Musimousa, and reported the whole affair faithfully to her. It was the very wisest thing she possibly could have done.     CHAPTER IV. HOW THE OLD FAIRY ACTED. ^TT HERE was great rejoicing in the palace of the King of the Silver Islands on the day on which the little princess was christened. There were bonfires and bonbons, horns blow-  ing and bands playing; in fact, Little Boy Blue wasted so much breath in blowing his silver horn, that he became very much exhausted; and when the king wanted him to come and walk after him in the grand procession, and hold up his rich purple velvet mantle so that it need not be trailed in the dust, Little Boy Blue was no- where to be found, until the tall footman re- membered the page's favorite place for taking a nap; and sure enough, there he was, fast asleep on the shady side of a great haycock which was kept for the accommodation of the king's horses. And the tall footman, whose name was C       33   34   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.        ' Peter --called the pumpkin-eater, because he was I so fond of eating pies made of that vegetable, A and because he wore a yellow livery-gave Little Boy Blue a shake,.and sent him to the king, and said to him:       - "Is this the way your place to keep, under i the haycock fast asleep?" but Peter never knew i he was talking in rhyme, for it was natural to him. For Peter was one of those fortunate t i people who are born poets. The palace was crowded with the people'who came to the christening; but of course the place of honor was given to the fairies who honored the king and queen with their presence. Even the old fairy Malevola, though the king had scarcely expected her to come, was placed in a very honorable position among the guests, though it is a most certain thing that she was the very ugliest person present, and it is equally true that nobody knew exactly what to do with her. They would only be very polite, and not meddle much with her. The fairy Musimousa was of course to be god-mother. It was a custom in the Silver   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     35 Islands for the fairy who brought a little child into them to give to any one, to stand god- mother for it, and to do all she could for it. And as it was through the fairy Musimousa that Queen Amoretta had received the little princess, it will immediately be seen why this good fairy i was to be god-mother., Just as soon as the little princess received the name, and was made welcome not only in fact but in name, a grand salute of one hundred cannon was fired, and the voices of everybody united in one great shout of "LONG LIVE THE PRINCESS WELCOME!" And then came the gifts. It was customary for the fairy god-mother to bestow her gift first, and it created some little surprise when the fairy Musimousa modestly requested permission to defer her gift to the last, saying that, although she was god-mother, she yet was the youngest fairy present, and she would prefer that her elders should speak first. She would not, of course, give her true rea- son, which was simply this: that, having been   36  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. informed by Mrs. Robin of the conversation be-  tween the old fairy and the enchanter, and know-  ing that they intended doing some mischief to  the little princess, she hoped, by deferring her  gift to the last, to be able in a certain degree to  counteract it. She could not hope to set it wholly aside, for it is a rule in Fairy Land that the oldest fairies should be the wisest, and have  the most power. The fairy Musimousa knew this, and she knew that the old fairy Malevola  -was much more powerful than she was; yet she i hoped, by waiting, to be able to lessen the harm the old fairy might do, although she could not wholly prevent it.  The other fairies considered it quite a com-  pliment to themselves that Musimousa should be willing to give up her place of honor to  them. The only one who objected was the old ' fairy Malevola, and she did not say very much, but finally agreed to the arrangement; for she  had no idea that the younger fairy knew any- thing about her plans. And Musimousa had said nothing to the queen, and had cautioned Mrs. Robin to be equally silent, for there was    THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    37 no use in telling any one bad news any sooner than was absolutely necessary. The fairies were very liberal to the young princess. One promised that she should be the most beautiful princess in the world; another, that she should be the wittiest; a third, that she should marry a great prince; a fourth, that she should dance beautifully; a fifth, that she should know all her lessons without studying them; and so on and so forth; while at every gift, as it was announced, the king bowed, and Little Boy Blue sounded his horn, and the people shouted and hurrahed, until at last it came to the old fairy Malevola's turn. Everybody wondered what she would do for her little great-grand-niecei The old fairy was in such a remarkably good humor, and was so very smiling and smirky, that people who did not know her very well thought that surely she would be very good to the little princess. But it only made the fairy Musimousa feel more uneasy. She did not know, nor, indeed, did any one else except the old fairy, that the great en- 4 *   38   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    t chanter Feliscat was present. He could not have come unless he had changed his form, which he had the power of doing; and so he  X had converted himself into a fly, and then he sat on the old fairy's ear-ring and talked to her all the time. He knew that flies were such common things that nobody ever noticed them. And then, too, he could talk in the fly-lan- guage, which all enchanters understand, which to ordinary people sounds like a hum or buzz; but all this humming and buzzing has meaning, and when one wants to be emphatic, there comes a grand bump against the ceiling or the window-pane. The other flies of course knew that the great enchanter was. present, .but then they were not going to tell on him, for they were great friends of his. The old fairy hobbled up to the place where the little princess lay in her beautiful carved walnut cradle. She first muttered some mys- terious words to herself; no one heard them, though, or they might have broken the spell. The spell-words were, Iniee , tonee, mii, " which mean, "I have begun an enchantment;"   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     39 and if any fairy who hears them can say them backwards, thus, Iim, eenom, eetnim, eetni, fast enough, -she can, if she chooses, prevent the enchantment. But people thought she was only saying to herself how pretty the little princess was. "I don't want to interfere with the gifts of any of my sisters the fairies," the old fairy Ma- levola said; " so, as I am not rich like them, I will give her, first, the name of the great prince one of my sisters has said she shall marry. She shall marry the son of the King of the Dark Country; and to secure her for him, she shall appear more beautiful to him than to any other man." It was such a horrible prediction--for the prince in question was the son of the great en- chanter Feliscat, and though only ten years old, was as large and as cruel and as ugly as the giants who lived in the Dark Country--that the queen screamed at hearing it, and threw herself on her knees before the old fairy, to im- plore her to change her gift. But the old fairy Malevola only laughed in the queen's face, and as she hobbled off, she said:   40   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. "Now you see what you get for refusing my old friend Feliscat, and sending me impertinent messages." But the fairy Musimousa now came forward. "You understand now, my sisters, why I de- sired to defer my gift to the last. I cannot, of course, set aside wholly what a fairy older and wiser than myself has done, but I can limit her power. If the Princess Welcome should marry before she is twenty, the enchanter can have no power over her; and even if she does fall into his power, she may be rescued from it by a prince who must have been born on the same day and at the same hour with herself; and I here promise to do all in my power to help her." So the queen was soothed, and the rejoicings went on; for they all thought that if the fairies took the little princess under their charge, that nothing could harm her. And Mrs. Robin, who had been at the chris- tening, and who had feasted upon pomegranate seeds and pineapple, went home and told her husband.   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     41 "Yes," said Mr. Robin; " and I heard the old fairy say, as she went past, talking to herself, that the great enchanter Feliscat had been there under the shape of a fly, and that nobody knew it except herself." For the robins hear everything,'and so do the sparrows; and that is why people say, "A little bird told me." Mrs. Robin trailed her wings in sorrow. "If I had only known it, I'd have eaten up every fly in the room!" "It would have been a good thing for some people if you had," answered Mr. Robin. Then they went to sleep; and so did the king and the queen and the little princess, and everybody else, for the christening feast was over. 4*   CHAPTER V. HOW THE. PRINCESS GREW UP. AFTER the little Princess Welcome was christened, things went on with her very much as they did with all the other children in the Silver Islands. She learned to creep, to walk, and finally to talk. The king and the queen thought her the most remarkable child in the kingdom, nay, in the whole world, and both would have felt highly insulted if any one had even insinuated that the Princess Welcome was very much like other children. Although the king had been so very anxious for a son, he soon began to think that, after all, the little smiling princess was all that's nice, and he in- dulged her, if possible, even more than the queen did. It was even reported of him, that when, one evening, the princess cried "because she wanted the pretty moon," the king ex- 42   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     43 pressed great regret that he could not get it for her. My grandmother also 'said,. that it had been stated on reliable authority, that the king had been seen on all-fours, acting as horse for the little princess, who was seated on his back. It does not seem a very royal act, but it is very certain that His Majesty the king greatly pre- ferred playing with Princess Welcome to his old occupation - sitting in his counting-room and counting out his money, while the maids hung out the clothes in the garden, arid scolded the inquisitive blackbirds who hopped around, try- ing'to hear all the news. And every day the little princess grew older, and larger, and prettier; and it was soon seen that, as one of the fairies had promised, she would be the most beautiful princess in the world. She also became very learned; for, as it had been promised her that she should al- ways know her lessons without having to study them, it was sufficient to read a thing over to her only once, and then she knew just as much about it as her teacher. And the teachers in the Silver Islands were very wise. It was said of   "  ITHE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.        J them that they used all the wisest books they  could find for pillows, and that while they slept,  all the learning in these books passed into their heads; and indeed some of them knew so much  that they were just like walking dictionaries. The chief tutor of the princess was a whole library in himself, and had written a book toj prove why, when Pussy-Cat went to London to  see the queen, she frightened the little mouse under her chair so terribly; but it was such a  wise book that nobody read it. Still he was a very good teacher. One very remarkable thing was, that, as the princess grew taller and larger, the beautiful i carved walnut cradle into which the nut in which she had been enclosed had changed,i grew just as she did, and changed first into a crib, and then into a couch, just as she needed them; and the princess never slept and never  would sleep in anything else. Indeed, for quite  ' long time  she was known throughout the  cingdom as the Nut Princess; and as she grew 5 )lder and prettier, she was called the Fair Prin- : :ess; but when she was fifteen, a royal decree   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    45 was given that she should only be spoken of as the Princess Welcome. And Little Boy Blue had grown, too, sq that he was now a tall man, and instead of being the king's page, he was now the Princess Wel- come's footman, which was a great promotion for him. And Mrs. Robin's nestlings, who as eggs had shared their nest with the -nut in which the princess lay, were steady birds, with nests of their own. But Mrs. Robin'and her husband still lived in the ivy under the queen's window, and were never cold, because in days when the wind blew they could put their heads under their wings and keep themselves warm. They were too fond of their home to be willing to change it for any other. In all these years things had gone on so very much in the common way, and as they always did in the Silver Islands, that the king had nearly forgotten, and so had the queen, the hateful prediction of the old fairy Malevola. She had never been near the palace since the day of the christening, and it was supposed that, one night when she had gone out to sweep   "  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.         i the cobwebs from the sky, she had lost her way, and not been able to return. But nobody I had put on mourning for her, though her ab- sence made both the king and queen feel very i comfortable about their daughter. The Prin-  X cess Welcome herself knew nothing about her } great-grand-aunt's ill-will against her. It had X been carefully kept a secret. But the great enchanter Feliscat had never  for one moment forgotten all this, and he kept his eye on the princess. He would have tried to steal her away long before, onrly children are sometimes very troublesome to take care of; and then the fairy Musimousa had prevented his touching her before she was twenty. He would have given a great deal to have found out who told the fairy, and who it was that had enabled her to interfere with his plans; but Mrs., Robin was wise and held her tongue, and so the great enchanter never found her out. He made himself very comfortable with the  thought that, like the princess, his son was  I growing older and larger every day. He could not marry the princess himself, so the next best   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     47 thing was, that his son should marry her. Only one thing about this son of his ever worried the enchanter, and that was, that with all his efforts he could never teach him to be an en- chanter; so that, wondrous wise though Felis- cat was himself; he had to be satisfied with see- ing his son just like, and no better than any other giant; for Tintinabulo (this was the name of the son of Feliscat) was one of the largest kind of giants. Fortunately, he was very lazy, and spent most of his time, when not eating, in sleep; for eating and sleeping were his two greatest pleasures. -He was nat- urally very cruel, and if he had not been so lazy, might have done as much harm as his father. The most noticeable thing about him was the fact that his teeth, which were enor- mously large, were of solid gold, so that he was known as Tintinabulo the Golden-Toothed. He was very careful of these teeth, because not only without them he would have been se- riously incommoded in eating, but also because it had been predicted by an enchanter at his birth, that, in case he ever lost them, he would   48   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. fall into the power of any person who could obtain possession of them. However, no one knew this except himself and his father; but to be as careful as possible, he had trained a dog, who sat beside him as he slept, and whose barking would have awakened him in a minute. For Tintinabulo- always slept with his mouth wide open, and he was very much afraid that the Forest- Dwarfs, who are very fond of gold,  might come some time when he was asleep and steal his golden teeth; and then he would have been in a terribleway. Tintinabulo did not care whether he married the Princess Welcome or not. But he was afraid of his father, who had always made him do whatever he was told; and so, when the great enchanter Feliscat informed him that he was some day to marry the Princess Welcome, he merely remarked that he hoped she knew how to cook well, and that it would be con- ! venient to have somebody to brush the flies off -his face when he was asleep.. As to bringing the princess into the Dark Country, he sup- posed his father-would attend to that; andas a   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.   49 great green frog happened to hop past just then, Tintinabulo picked it up and swallowed it like a raw oyster. Then he' turned over and went to sleep. The great enchanter Feliscat walked off, won- dering where his son got his stupidity. But he could not make him any smarter; and then it was such a comfort to think what a stupid son- in-law Queen Amoretta would have. 6        D ,wg '.   CHAPTER VI. HOW THE PICTURE CAME TO BE PAINTED, M  EANTIME the princess was growing prettier and prettier every day, till at last it was universally acknowledged that she was the most beautiful princess that ever had been seen. And then, too, she was very wise and learned, and knew as much as the wisest men in the kingdom. She danced so be/auti- fully that it was a real pleasure to see her move, and Queen Amoretta used to give balls for the mere sake of seeing her daughter dance; She had given up dancing herself, although she had always been fond of it, because she now greatly ! ' preferred sitting on her throne in the great ball- room and watching her daughter, whose long beautiful hair fell in golden curls nearly to her feet.         . 50   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    5I Everything had gone on, hitherto, so very smoothly and nicely, that the old fairy Ma- levola's prediction was wholly forgotten. If the queen ever did think of it, she always re- membered that the fairy Musimousa had prom- ised to protect the princess; and so she gave herself very little uneasiness on the subject. The fairy Musimousa had done nothing, as yet, for her god-daughter. In fact, there had really been nothing for her to do; and the fai- ries living near the Silver Islands believed in letting well enough alone, and never interfering unless there really was some necessity for it, or e they could do some good. But Musimousa had not forgotten the Princess Welcome, and she had no wish to see her fall into the hands of the giant Tintinabulo; and so, when she thought the proper time had come, she went to see heir old friend Queen Amoretta. The king and queen were sitting together, talking, as they always did, of their beautiful wise princess, when a peculiar fragrance spread through the room, and they immediately knew that a fairy was coming,--for that was the way   52  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. in which the fairies sent in their cards,-and the next moment the fairy Musimousa stood be- fore them. And they knew, as soon as they saw her, that she had come on important busi- ness., She began by asking the king and queen if they had forgotten the incidents attending their daughter's christening. They both assured her that they had not-; but they also said, that, as the fairy Malevola, the only person whom they had to fear, had disappeared, they had ceased to be at all uneasy on the subject. "And yet your daughter never was in greater danger than she now is," the fairy said, "The old fairy Malevola is only waiting for her op- portunity, and the great enchanter Feliscat is only watching for a chance to carry her off." "But you promised to protect her," said the queen. "True; but I can only help those who help themselves," the fairy replied. "Everything costs trouble, to be sure, and unless you do all that lies in your power to save Welcome, I can do little for her."   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     53 ?j   The queen wrung her hands, and the king groaned. "To think how happy we were," said the queen, the tears rolling down her cheeks. "But, dear fairy, if you only will tell us what to do, ?ll we will do it." "Try and find a husband for your daughter," said the fairy. "Have her portrait painted, and send it to all the princes yo'i-know; and do it just as soon as you can." "Humph!" said the king, a little angrily. ';I should think the Princess of the Silver Islands would have but little trouble in finding a prince. The difficulty would be to find one worthy of her; and the only reason why she has never been married is, that we never yet have an- nounced, as is the custom, that the Princess Welcome is old enough to be married." But the fairy Musimousa did not get angry. She knew that even-the blackest crows and ra- vens, who rocked their babies on the tree-tops when the wind blew, thought their children as white and beautiful as white swans; and as in this case the king really had reason to be proud 5*   54  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. of his daughter, she only laughed, and advised them to act at once. "For you must remember," she said, "that you have a wicked fairy and a powerful en- chanter to contend with. And I hope, between us, that we can save the princess from the giant Tintinabulo." Then she bade them good-morning, and went into the garden, Where- the princess was walk- ing among the roses. She changed herself into a sparrow, and alighted on the princess's shoulder, and chirped, "Good-morning to you, my pretty princess." "Good-morning, little birdie," said the prin- cess. For that was part of the wisdom of the princess, that- she understood the language of all good birds. And although the sparrows know everything, they are good birds, because they never tell tales, as the parrots and mag- pies do. "It is a pleasant morning," said the sparrow. "But you probably knew that before; so, dear princess, I really wanted to tell you that if you see anything strange about the palace or the                    W   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    55 i garden, you had better not touch it; and you I2: must be very careful to do exactly as your mother tells you." "May I ask why?" said the princess. "The reason why I cannot tell," said the sparrow. "But I hope very soon to come to your wedding." And then the sparrow flew away. She had done all that she could for the present. And Welcome never knew that it, was her god- mother who had been talking to her, so she did not feel at all' disturbed. But the king and queen were very much dis- turbed; for, if there had not been reason for it, they knew that the fairy would never have come to warn them. They were very well aware, too, of the fact that the fairy knew bet- ter than they did, not only what was coming, but also what ought to be done; and so they very sensibly concluded to take her advice. So the king immediately caused it to be pro- claimed throughout the Silver Islands, that his daughter, the Princess Welcome, was now old enough to be married; and he also directed the   56  'THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. heralds to say that he wished the very best painter in the kingdom to come and paint the portrait of the princess, so that it might be shown to all the princes who had no wives. The proclamation caused great excitement all through the kingdom. Every man who could draw or paint-there were no women artists in the Silver Islands - of course at once considered himself the person who was meant by 'the very best painter in the kingdom,' and felt that he must go immediately to the palace and paint the Princess Welcome's portrait. So they came from all parts of the kingdom, and came in such crowds, that Peter, the tall foot- man, wore out two pair of yellow kid gloves in opening the door for them, and one pair of buff morocco boots in running up and down stairs to carry their names to the king, who was very much astonished at discovering how many famous painters he had in his kingdom, most of whom he had never heard of before. Now if every one who came had painted a picture, the palace would not have been large enough to hold them. Besides, there was only   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     57 one portrait wanted, and there was no use in having too many. So the king gave out, that, as he really only needed one picture, he was sorry he could not employ all of them; and he caused six of them to be selected by lot, and from their paintings the best was to be chosen. To each of the other artists he gave a piece of gold, to pay them for their trouble in coming; and then the six painters who were chosen were set to work. The Princess Welcome grew very tired of sitting, standing, or reclining, just to be looked at. For no two of the pictures were to be taken in the same position, so that none of them need be alike. But there was no help for it; so, to amuse her while they were painting her, Little Boy Blue was appointed to read fairy tales to her; for the princess was very fond of fairy tales, though she never dreamed that she was living in one, and making one herself. For there is nothing like being accustomed to things. But the painters who were not chosen were not at all pleased. For it would have been   58   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. quite an honor to be the successful artist; an4d he whose picture was selected was hereafter to wear a feather in his cap, and to be called The First Painter. But only one could do it. Among the painters who were not chosen was one who was very sorry that he had lost his opportunity, because he really loved to paint, and it would have been so delightful to paint a picture of any one so beautiful as the princess. He had never seen her but once, but he never had forgotten how she looked. There was no choice for him, however, so he took his gold piece thankfully, and started for home; and he was so busy thinking that he never once looked where he was going, and the conse- quence was that he fell into a bramble-bush, and before he could get out of it, the poor fel- /low had scratched out both his eyes. He managed to scramble out again, however, and then had to sit in the dark for two whole days, because he could not see. He could not complain, because he knew it was all owing to his own carelessness, in not looking where he was going; but he was very sorry he had lost   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    59 his eyes, and would have given a good deal to get them back again. Presently, who should come along but the fairy Rosaleava, the, same one who had prom- ised that the Princess Welcome should marry a great prince. Of course she wanted to have her promise fulfilled, and then, too, she was sorry for the young painter; so she took his hand and led him to a certain place, and then told him to jump. And the painter jumped; and he jumped right into another bramble- bush, but this time he scratched both his eyes in again; and the most wonderful thing about it was, that they were better now than they ever had been before. And then he knew that a fairy had helped him; but the fairy had gone away without waiting to be thanked. Then the young painter went home, and he could now see so clearly that he could paint better than he ever did before. So from mem- ory he painted a picture of the princess, and it represented her with a crown of roses on her head, and a rose in her hand; and it was so beautiful that it was as beautiful as Welcome   60   THE ENCHANTED     PRINCESS. herself. And everybody who saw it said, "It is the princess herself." So the young painter sent his picture to the - palace. And when' it was placed by the pic- tures of the other six painters, it proved so much the best that it was hung in the place of honor over the throne, and the young painter was given a red feather to wear in his cap," and called The First Painter. And copies were or- dered to be taken of his picture, to be sent to the neighboring princes. Then the young painter was glad that he had fallen into the bramble-bush. "              A; i   CHAPTER VII. HOW THE PRINCES WERE DECEIVED. -T HE copies of the portrait of the Princess Welcome were sent to all the princes who lived near the Silver Islands. So very beauti- ful were they, that the princes to whom they were sent immediately fell in love with the princess; but the one who after all loved her best was the young painter who had painted the portrait, and who knew that there was no chance for him, for a princess would never think ' of a painter. But this did not prevent his loving her. Meantime the fame of the portrait, and the news that the king of the Silver Islands wished to find a husband for his daughter, was carried far and near, here, there, and everywhere, till it even reached the Dark Country, and came to 6              6I   62   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. the ears of the great enchanter Feliscat. Then he knew that it was time for him to act. "Now or never," he said. Then he applied his left thumb to the tip of his nose, and moved the fingers of his left hand. This was the sign which the enchanters and wicked fairies used when they wanted to speak with one another; and this time it meant that the great enchanter Feliscat wished to speak with the old fairy Malevola. For the old fairy had not lost her way, as the king and queen supposed. It is true that she had gone to sweep the cobwebs from the sky, for these same cobwebs are very useful in an enchantment; but when she had closed the door of her house behind her, she had said, ' I 'll be home again by-and-by," and as she had not said when she would return, there had been no necessity for her to hurry herself. And as she hated sunshine, and always kept out of it as much as she could, and knew that she could always go back whenever she pleased, so, after she had collected all the sky-cobwebs she j wanted-and the only place where they are to   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    63 be found is west of the moon, where the sun- rays do not shine--the old fairy concluded that she would rather go and stay for a while in the Dark Country, where she could always find society suited to her taste. And there she had been ever since, but the people in the Silver Islands did not know it. So that when the enchanter signed for her, it did not take her very long to come. And then the two -Tintinabulo was present, but he did not say a 'word, he only amused himself by catching and eating all the snails and worms which dared creep near him- the two talked together, and laid plans for so much malicious mischief, and plotted everything so carefully, that they came to the conclusion that even the Queen of the Fairies, much less the fairy Musi- mousa, could not prevent their carrying off the princess, when the proper time should come. After this conversation, the old fairy Ma- levola went back to her house, where she found everything just exactly as she had left it; for nobody ever went into it. And nobody was glad to see her come home again; but as she   "\  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. was the king's great-aunt, and a fairy, nobody could send her out of the kingdom. So the old fairy sat in her house and spun her cobwebs, and then wove them into a cloth, and some she laid away for a particular purpose. Meantime the princes who had seen the Princess Welcome's portrait, and who had each fallen in love with her, concluded that they none of them could have a more beautiful queen than the daughter of the king of the Silver Islands; and so, instead of sending ambassadors to her father's court, as was the custom in those days, and is still the custom when a prince or princess is to be married, they made up their minds, just as if they had agreed among them- selves, to go in person to the Silver Islands, and then ask for the beautiful princess. And each prince was sure that he would be the one to carry her home with him. Meantime the news was brought to the king and queen, by the heralds who had been sent out with the portraits, that the different princes to whom they were sent were now travelling' toward the Silver Islands, with splendid pres-   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    65 ents and great retinues. So the king com- manded great preparations to be made for their reception, and everybody at court got new and handsome clothes for the occasion; and all the king was afraid of was this, that, as he only could have one son-in-law, he might offend those who were rejected. But the Princess Welcome only laughed and said that she was in no hurry to be married. She wished the strange princes had all stayed at home. So did the young painter, whose name was Selim. For although he was now called The First Painter, and wore a red feather in his cap, he knew that he loved the Princess Welcome better than any of these strange princes pos- sibly could; and he knew that if she married one of them, he never would see her again. But the old fairy Malevola was glad when she heard that the princes were coming, for then she knew she could begin her plots against the princess, whom she hated just because she was so beautiful. She was the very first person to hear the news, because the flies, who are everywhere and chiefly where they are least t6*      E   "  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. wanted, had come and told her, and the old fairy was glad to know that she could begin her mischief. It was time to begin,--so she took some of the very finest sky-cobwebs that she had, and after carefully preparing them, and muttering strange words over them, they were ready for use. She then sent a great blue-bot- tle fly, who had been watching her and fanning the fire with his wings, in search of his cousins the dragon-flies, with the request that some of the wisest among them would come to her. When the dragon-flies came, which they im- mediately did, the old fairy gave each of them some of the cobwebs she had prepared, and sent them to scatter them in the air when they sav the princes and their retinues coming. The intention was, that these cobwebs should. get into people's eyes, and then they would see things only as the old fairy wished, not as they really were. And she promised the dragon- flies; that, if they did all she told them, the spiders should never catch them and clip their wings, for the spiders and the dragon-flies have always been at war, and always will be.   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     67 So the dragon-flies scattered the cobwebs in the air. And as each stranger prince came into the Silver Islands, he seemed to feel a strange mist come over his eyes, and then everybody in his retinue had the same feeling, because they felt as their prince did; but when they rubbed their eyes, which they all did at once, the strange mistiness was gone, and they im- mediately forgot all about it. And when the dragon-flies went and told this to the old fairy, she turned round three times and said, "Things are going on in capital style." The king and queen had heard of the old fairy's return, but they were so very busy mak- ing preparations for the reception of the princes who were coming, that they did not pay any at- tention to this piece of news. She was welcome to live in her own house just as long as she I: chose, provided she did not interfere with them. And all this time the princes were coming nearer and nearer. Each travelled by a differ- ent road, yet each one was treated alike by the people of the country, who brought them all' sorts of nice things to eat, and did everything   68   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. that they could for them. And the farther they travelled into the country, the more they heard of the beauty of the Princess Welcome. Some even went so far as to say that her picture was not half as beautiful as she herself was, but this the princes thought must be impossible. At last they arrived at the city where the king lived, and they were conducted to the pal- aces which had been prepared for them. Then the king fixed a day on which he was to receive them; and when the day came, they all marched in procession to the king's palace, preceded by heralds, and bands of music, which played a beautiful tune, and as they marched, they sung a song which had been written for the occasion. "Fair Princess Welcome, if you will be mine, / You shall have rich jewels, and diamonds so fine; Shall sit on a rich throne, and be my dear queen, And you shall eat strawherries, sugar, and cream." The king, with Queen Amoretta and the Princess Welcome, were all dressed magnifi- cently, and seated on their thrones in the great ball-room. Over their heads hung the portrait which had been copied. The tall footman,   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    69 Peter, in a new suit of livery and new yellow kid gloves, opened the door, and Little Boy Blue announced: "The Princes of the Surrounding Countries," and then they came in, and bowed to the king, and paid their .respects to the queen. Then they saluted the princess, and then they looked at 'the portrait. The portrait was all right, sure enough; that was just exactly as it had been -painted; but how was it with the princess? She was very far from being all right. One prince looked, and she had ears like a mule, another saw her with a nose at least a foot long, a third discov- ered she only had one eye, a fourth noticed that her mouth stretched from ear to ear, a fifth perceived that her chin hung down to her waist, and the sixth, the handsomest of them all, saw only an old hag's face, the likeness of the old fairy Malevola herself. And they were all very much disgusted, but they did not know that it was all caused by the cobwebs which had got into their eyes. The only persons who un- derstood the true state of the case were the   70  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. fairies Musimousa and Rosaleava, but it was too late for them to do anything, as they were so much younger than the old fairy who had de- ceived the princes. The princes themselves were so disgusted at having been so completely taken in, as they supposed, by the king of the Silver Islands, as to the beauty of his daughter, that it was as much as they could do to conceal their vexa- tion. The- more they looked at Welcome, the more hideously ugly she appeared to them; and just as soon as the audience was over, with' out any of them asking the princess to go witlt them,-without even waiting for the grand ball which was that evening to be given,-- they all met together, and decided to go back to their homes. Indeed, they were so very angry with the king of the Silver Islands that they had very serious thoughts of going to war with him. But the two good fairies whispered in the ear of the handsome sixth prince, though he thought he only heard a sparrow chirp, and then he said to the others:   - i    THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    7I "Poor king, he can't help having such an ugly princess for a daughter! Very likely he thinks she is beautiful; for, on my way here, I passed an ugly squat toad, and she told me her children were the most beautiful creatures in the world. But when I looked at them, they were the ugliest little toads I ever had seen; and the king is like the toad-mother." This made the other princes laugh; and they went home without fighting the king. But how the old fairy Malevola laughed when the dragon-flies told her the news! "It is because the princess is enchanted," she said to them. So the dragon-flies, who never can keep a secret, told this to the beetles, and the beetles told the moths, and the moths told the bats, who are their first cousins. The bats told their first cousins, the blackbirds; and the blackbirds, who sing even when they are baked in a pie, told everybody. So that soon everybody ini the kingdom, except the princess, knew that she was enchanted, and they remembered that one of the fairies, at the christening, had said S   72  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. that she should appear more beautiful to the Prince of the Dark Country than to any other man. But they had forgotten which fairy had said it. The king and queen remembered, and it made them very uneasy. They took more care of the princess than ever. The rumor that the Princess Welcome was enchanted came at last to the ears of the six princes. !'What a fortunate thing it was that I saw the princess as she really was," each prince said to himself. "For it is very certain that I should not have cared to marry an enchanted princess." And yet, all the time, the Princess Welcome was just as beautiful as ever. g   o.     ' -    ,."   CHAPTER VIII. HOW THE PRINCESS WAS ENCHANTED. h T T did not disturb Welcome at all that the six princes should have gone away without so much as saying, "By your leave!"She had not wanted them to come, for she knew that she would have been compelled to go back with one of them, had she been asked; and the fair princess loved being her own mistress too well to care about marrying the handsomest prince in the world. She could not understand why it was that her father and mother were so dreadfully low- 'spirited at the thought that she was to remain a little longer with them. It made her so happy that she danced and sung for joy; for she had no idea how important it was-that she should be married. Time passed away, until at last the princess 7              73   74  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. was twenty years of age. But no prince had yet been found who was brave enough to marry her; and it was only because report had car- ried, with the fame of her beauty, which was greater than ever, the name which people had given her, The Enchanted Princess. But wise as Welcome was, she was not wise enough to know this,--for the enchanter and the old fairy had so managed matters between them that when any one, her father and mother in- cluded, tried to say anything to her on the sub- ject, or to give her any warning, they could not say what they wanted, although they always thought they were saying what they desired; 'while, in truth, they only paid compliments to the princess about her beauty. During all this time the old fairy Malevola, acting under the directions of the great en- chanter Feliscat, had-not been idle. And yet, she had apparently done very little. She had only woven a cloth out of the sky-cobwebs which she had prepared, and had laid it care- fully away, after bleaching it in the moon- shine; and then, one dark night, she had gone   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    75 to the Princess Welcome's garden, and there she had planted a flower-seed which the en- chanter had given her. Then she waited. And presently there grew up from this seed the strangest flower in the world. It was just a great green leaf,-at least, so it looked to most people; but to the Princess Welcome it looked like a most beautiful pure white lily. And to her it had the most delicious fragrance; and she watched it as it grew, day by day, won- dering all the time where it could have come from, and resolving, as soon as it should be fully open, to pluck it and wear it in her hair. The princess had wholly forgotten the warn- ing which the sparrow had given her, about touching anything strange; and even if she had remembered it, she probably would have thought that it would be impossible for any- thing as beautiful as a white lily to do her harm. So one day she went into the garden and picked. the flower, never noticing how a rose-branch caught her dress on its thorns and tried to hold her back, or how a little brown sparrow flew around, chirping and scolding;   76   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. and then she raised the lily to enjoy its fra- grance, but just as it touched her lips it crum- bled and vanished from her sight. This frightened Welcome dreadfully, for she could not imagine what had caused it. And what frightened her still more was, that she heard a low, chuckling laugh just behind her; but when she turned round, she saw nothing but an ugly tload squatting under a rose-bush. And then, when it was too late, she remem- bered what the sparrow had told her. There was a ball that night at the palace, and it was remarked that the princess never had danced more beautifully. But if Welcome's feet were light, her heart was heavy, and she dared not tell any one how imprudent she had been. She was glad when the ball was over, and she could lie down in her beautiful carved walnut bed. But the Princess Welcome could not sleep. And night after night came, and she never even closed her eyes, until the king and queen called all the wise men and doctors of the kingdom together, and offered great rewards if they   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    " only would put the princess to sleep. And the wise men scratched their heads, and the doctors looked very learned, but nothing that they could either do or say would put the princess to sleep. Nobody knew that it was the fragrance of the magic flower which kept her awake. And nothing that any of them could do would put the princess to sleep. They had long consultations on the subject. They made her read stupid books. They gave her poppy- tea and sleep-juice to drink; they did every- thing that could possibly be done in order to put the princess to sleep, but it was all of no use. She was too wide awake, and wide awake she was to remain. It was a very uncomfort- able condition -to be in, and the poor princess was nearly distracted. However, one day, Peter the tall footman, who was very fond of the princess, went to the king and said to him, with a low bow: "' May it please your majesty, but there lived an old woman under the hill, and if she's not dead, she lives there still; and, unless report 7   78-  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. in her case lies, she can bring sleep to the princess's eyes." Now the king was so very fond of his daugh- ter that he would have done anything in the world for her. So he sent Peter in great haste for the old woman who lived under the hill. And Peter ran the whole way, but after all he did not get there soon enough. He found the old woman baking pies. Just as soon as she saw him she said to him: "You want me to put the princess to sleep, I suppose?" "You've got it pat; exactly that," Peter replied. "Well, I can do it," said the old woman, with a grin; "only, I tell you, the king will have to pay me a good price for putting the princess to sleep." "He 'll not care how much it be," Peter went on. "If the princess sleep enfold, he will line your purse with gold." Then the two set out for the palace. And the king came to meet the old woman, and told  her how much he would give her if she could ,.. .   THE- ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    79 only put the beautiful princess to sleep, and how much he would thank her. Then the old woman said: "I can easily put the Princess Welcome to sleep, but you need not thank me or pay me until to-morrow morning. And I shall not ask much." Then the queen asked her what she would do. "I shall only make up her bed properly," said the old woman. So they took her to the Princess Welcome's room, and she went to the bed and made it up most beautifully. But nobody saw that in it she laid the cloth which she had woven of sky- cobwebs, -for the old pie-woman was only the old fairy Malevola in disguise, --and then she went and laid her hand on Welcome's eyes; and then, without waiting to be thanked, she went away. But soon the Princess Welcome began to get very sleepy, and to yawn, and to rub her eyes, and, by the time it grew dark, she could not keep awake; so she went and lay down in '        80  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. her beautiful bed, just on the cobweb cloth. And in ten minutes she was fast asleep. The king and queen were so delighted at this, that, if the old woman had been near, they would have given her anything she wanted. But the old woman was gone, and so they had to content themselves with having all the lights put out, and keeping the palace so still that you could have heard a pin drop. But in the night the old fairy Malevola, in her own shape, and the great enchanter Feliscat, came to the palace, and wrapping the princess closely in the cobweb cloth, they tarried her, still lying in her enchanted sleep, away with them to the Dark Country.    CHAPTER IX. HOW THE YOUNG PAINTER FELT. THERE was great excitement in the palace when morning came, and the Princess Welcome was nowhere to be found. They sought her everywhere,--in the garden and in the garret, up-stairs and down-stairs, high and low, far and near,-but all in vain; the princess was not to be found. The queen began to cry, for she was nearly broken-hearted over the loss of her daughter. In the midst of her tears, she remembered that the old woman who had put the princess to sleep had .said that she would not ask to be re- warded until the following day, and then she thought that very probably 'the same person who had put Welcome to sleep would know what had become of her during that sleep; and so, after consulting the king, Peter, the tall F       8R   o   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. footman, was sent off, post-haste, in search of the old woman. He found her selling apples and pies; but she knew nothing at all about the princess, and had not been home the day before, having been spending the day with her sister, who had so many children she did not know what to do, and who was glad enough to have a little help in giving them their supper and putting them to bed, where they were sure to be out of mis- chief. That was all the putting people to sleep the old woman ever had done; and she was rather 'surprised when Peter told her that she was-wanted at the palace. However, there was no help for it; and so the old woman put on her red cloak, and went with Peter to the palace: But the moment the king and queen saw her, they both knew and said that this was not the same old woman who had been there the day before; and so they gave her a gold piece, and thanked her for her trou- ble. My grandmother says that afterwards she was employed to bake pies for the palace; but that was all. she had to do with the story.   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    83 Only, it is said, that as long as the old woman lived, she used to tell her nephews and nieces about "The day I went to the palace." But the king and queen were more fright- ened now than ever. The Princess Welcome was too big to -be lost; that was very certain. And, to make matters worse, her beautiful carved bedstead had suddenly been changed, under their very eyes, into a walnut, - which Queen Amoretta, though she was half afraid to do it, had picked up and put in her pocket for safe-keeping. That was the first thing that made them suspect there was some enchant- ment at work. As soon as this thought occurred to them, they sent off for the fairy Musimousa, by Mrs. Robin, who was the swiftest messenger they had, She came, and the fairy Rosaleava with her. As soon as they were told what had hap- pened, they asked what day of the month it was, and Queen Amoretta told them. "Then," said the fairy Musimousa, "the princess was twenty years old yesterday, and   84 ' T HE ENCHANTED PRINCESS* she has been carried off by the enchanter and the old fairy." The king groaned. "What is to be done now?" "You must find a prince who is willing to go into the Dark Country, and who was born on the same day and the same hour as the, princess." "Ah," said the queen; " but how is he to be found?" "He must go of his own free will;"' replied the fairy. "Of course the king must make proclamation, and when the prince is found, we will help him, for that is the only way in which we'can assist the princess." "Yes," said Rosaleava; "and you must take good care of Welcome's bed; for if that should be lost, the princess never can be regained." Then the two fairies disappeared. The king and queen felt very much worried, and at last the king said: "If you only had chosen a prince instead of a princess, we never would have had this trouble."    THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    85 "Yes," said Queen Amoretta; "but then a prince will come and rescue Welcome from the enchanter, and will marry her, and then we shall have both a prince and, princess of our own. For the queen was trying to make the best of it.; and, like a good wife, she wanted to cheer her husband up; and she succeeded so far, that, before night, the king had sent out his heralds to proclaim that his daughter, the Princess Welcome, had been carried away by an enchanter, and that any prince who would go in search of her, and break the enchant- ment, which could be done by a prince, but only by a prince, should receive great assist- ance, and should not only marry the princess, but should one day reign over the Silver Islands. It may readily be imagined how much excite- ment was caused all through the kingdom by the news that the princess had been carried off by an enchanter, and also by the king's pro- clamation. People could talk of nothing else, and everybody was sorry for the princess, who 8   86  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. must be having a very hard time. And 'then the king and queen felt so very badly, that there were no more balls or parties or great i dinners given, at the palace; and of course nobody else could think of giving anything of the sort, which made it very dull, not only at court but all through the kingdom. And the queen cried more than half the time, but then she felt worse than any one else. Time went on, and nothing had as yet been heard of the Princess Welcome. The king's proclamation had brought several princes, to the Silver Islands in order that they might find out how the enchantment was to be broken; but none of them had even been able to find the Dark Country where the princess was; and each one had soon learned that the true prince had not yet come. The young painter, whose name was Selim, had heard the news and the king's proclama- tion. He would have gone at-once in search of the princess, and would willingly--he loved her so well-have sought her until he found her; but unluckily she must be set free by a   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    87 prince, and only by a prince. And Selim knew well enough that he was no prince, nor ever would he be one; he was only a painter, who did not even know who his father and mother were. He was only the adopted son of a poor woman who lived on the coast of --one of the smallest of the Silver Islands. A great many years before,-so long ago, in fact, that Selim could remember nothing about it,--this poor woman had been sitting one evening looking out at the sea. Like the queen, she had no children, though she often had wished for a little boy; but the Air-Fairies seemed to have forgotten her, although she wished every day that they would leave a present at her door. And this evening she wished it more than ever. Presently she saw, floating in the broad path of moonlight which lay on the sea, something which looked like a tiny little boat. It came nearer and nearer, until a little moon-kissed wave laid it gently on the shore, just at her feet; and when she looked, it was just a hollow limb of a tree, and in the hollow lay a dear little boy-baby, with a bracelet on one arm,   88  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. cooing and laughing at her. And so she thought the Sea-Fairies had pitied her, and had sent her this present. And because the boy had come from the sea in the limb of a tree, she called him Selim. But she knew, from the bracelet on his arm which never came off, but grew as he grew, that Selim had been given to some one else who had lost him; and al- though she brought him up, and loved him as her own son, she knew, and Selim knew, that she was not his real mother. He was only a little waif from the sea. But after a while the good woman died, and Selim was alone. It was then that he learned to paint; and then he fell in love with the princess, and painted her picture. And now Selim loved .her better than ever, because he was so sorry for her. He wished he was a prince, so that he might go in search of the princess; he even would have offered to take her place, if the enchanter had been willing to set her free, and to let him remain as a pris- oner. Poor Selim was as unhappy as the king and queen were.   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     89 He could not remain at court, where every- thing reminded him of the beautiful princess; so he resigned his red feather and his title of The First Painter, and went to live by himself in the little old cottage by the sea.   CHAPTER X. HOW THNGS WENT WITH THE PRINCESS. ^W[HHEN the Princess Welcome awoke from the magic sleep into which she had been thrown, she could not at first understand the situation of affairs. She remembered dis- tinctly how very, very sleepy she had been, but she did not see how things could have been so completely changed during her sleep as they had evidently been. Could she possibly have followed the example of her great-great-grand- mother, whose story was written in the history of the kingdom, who had slept for a hundred years, and had then been awakened by the kiss of a prince? Welcome doubted this exceed- ingly. The strange, dim look of everything around her, so different from her own bright room, startled her; and she began to think that perhaps she was only dreaming, and not more 90   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    9I than half awake, when, all of a sudden, the old fairy Malevola stood before her. Though Welcome had never, since she was a baby in the cradle, seen her old great-grand- aunt, she knew in a moment who she was, for the people in the Silver Islands had the gift of knowing who the fairies were as soon as they made their appearance. She knew, too, per- fectly well, that the old fairy was just as wicked as she could possibly be, and the moment she saw her she knew perfectly well that she had been brought by no fair means to her present situation. She waited for the old fairy to speak first. "And how does my dainty young niece like the Dark Country?" the old fairy began, with a grin. "I should like to know why I am here.?" the princess observed. "Hum!" said the old fairy; " in our country, when princes don't care to go after princesses, it is customary to bring the princess to the prince." And then-she was in an uncommonly good   92  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. humor -the old fairy began at the beginning, and told the princess the whole story, from the christening to the way in which she and the enchanter had wrapped her up in the cobweb cloth, and so brought her through the air into A the Dark Country. Welcome was wise enough to see that it had all been fated, and the old fairy's words explained many things which had hitherto seemed strange; but when the old fairy said that she had assisted in bringing her, Welcome remarked, very quietly: "I did think I belonged to my father and mother; and when people take possession of, and carry away other people's property, we generally, in the Silver Islands, call it stealing.  May I ask what you call it here?" It was not a very wise thing for the princess to say, for it made the old fairy so furiously angry that she began to hop and jump, and threaten the princess with all manner of terri- ble things; for Welcome might as well have called her old aunt a thief; and some people object very seriously to having the truth told- them about themselves, particularly when they   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    93 cannot contradict it. The old fairy got so very angry, and made so much noise, that the great enchanter Feliscat at last came in and ordered her to let the-princess alone. He was so delighted himself at getting Welcome into his power, that he was willing to protect her from the old fairy Malevola; and as he had done this, Welcome begged him to do one more thing for her, and restore her to her parents. But the enchanter only shook his head, and told the princess that he always kept things that he once obtained, and that, unless the true prince came along, she would soon be married to his son, the great Prince Tintinabulo. Poor Welcome! she well knew then that there was no hope for her; for what prince would come to rescue her from the Dark Coun- try? It well deserved its name, for in it shone neither sun nor moon, and the only light the people had was a sort of shining which came from the clouds, yet it was faint and dim. Nothing looked as it should; everything was formless and, shapeless, and the people never looked one another in the face; there were no   "  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. birds, but toads and snails and frogs and lizards , with bat-like wings; huge fat worms and slimy 1things -that crawled on the ground; snakes formed the branches of the trees; giants and ugly little dwarfs and imps stalked and crept along in the half-light; in short, it was like a horrible dream. But though Welcome saw these creatures, they none of them took the slightest notice of her. The power of the enchanter kept them from touching or molesting her, and they slunk away from her presence as darkness flies before light. 'Every now and then Tintinabulo came to see her, and Welcome wished with all her heart that he would avoid her, as the other hateful creatures did. For the poor princess thought that never in all her life had she seen anything or any one quite so horribly ugly as the giant Tintinabulo. He was so fat that his cheeks hung down and rested upon his shoulders; his little green eyes were scarcely visible for the heaps of fat be- neath them; his ears were like those of a spaniel dog in shape; his mouth was like that   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    95 of a frog, and stretched from ear to ear; and the great golden teeth with which it was filled shed a strange yellow light over his face, which made him, if possible, more hideous; he was, in short, inexpressibly ugly. The princess was dreadfully afraid of him; she fairly-hated the sight of him; and she made up her mind that nothing would ever induce her to marry this horrible giant, who ate snails and lizards and frogs, and who looked as if he would even like to eat her. She did not care if the great en- chanter and her old aunt had determined that the match should come off; she was determined As  that she would have nothing to do with the giant Tintinabulo. It was not only because Tintinabulo was so fearfully ugly, but Welcome sometimes won- dered if he would not like to include her among the things he ate. Nothing seemed to come amiss to him: he swallowed frogs, worms, and snails with as much apparent enjoyment as she had formerly felt in eating oysters or bonbons; and every now and then the thought occurred to her that he might possibly some day con- i    96   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. sider her a delicate morsel or dainty tithit. She always felt more comfortable when he was out of the way or asleep; and much as Wel- come missed her home, and sorry as she felt for her parents, this was all as nothing to the horror she felt of the giant Tintinabulo. Yet she was tolerably well treated for a while in the Dark Country. The enchanter really felt no ill-will against the pretty princess who fi{ad fallen into his power, and would have liked to see her contented; but he was fully deter- mined that, by fair means or foul, she should marry his son. He only laughed when the princess declared to him that this was something she would never do, and told her that she could not help her- self. But Welcome said to him: "I can wait till the true prince comes for me." "What do you know about the true prince?" the enchanter asked her. "You spoke of him yourself," said Welcome. "Ah; but then you did not know that the true prince for you was my son. And the wld- ding will soon come off." " .. .* .    THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    97 Poor Welcome soon discovered that the enchanter and the old fairy were very much in earnest about this. But when the time that they appointed began to draw near, she cried till she nearly cried her eyes out, and then made up her mind that she would not say another word. So she held her tongue. This made the enchanter very angry; so one day he came to her and said : "If you won't talk, you shall not talk; and perhaps some day you will come to your senses." Then he said a few magic words, and Wel- come was immediately changed- into a statue. She could neither move, eat, nor speak; yet she could hear and see everything that was going on around her; and the old fairy Ma- levola made herself very busy preparing for the wedding. And Welcome was very unhappy and very uncomfortable, but she did not know that at last her fairy friends were able to do something for her, as they could not help her so long as the enchanter treated her so kindly. Presently the old fairy Malevola went to the 9       G   98   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. enchanter and told him that all things were ready for the wedding. So the enchanter went to his stone princess and touched her, and Wel- come was herself again. "The wedding is ready, and we are only waiting for you," the enchanter said to the princess. "Then it must come off without me," she replied, boldly; " for I had rather be a statue all my life than marry that horrible giant." The great enchanter grew so angry at this that his eyes fairly flashed fire. "You would, would you? Then you may go back to being a statue till you come to your senses." "If coming to my senses means marrying that awful creature, I hope I may never come to them," was Welcome's last thought as she stiffened again into stone. But this time the enchanter kept her so long a statue that at last she began to wonder if ever she had been any- thing else, and to say to herself: "If I be I, as I suppose I be,"-but she was very-doubtful upon the subject.   THE, ENCHANTED PRINCESS.   - 99 However, -this -could not last forever; and one day Welcome found that she was herself again, and there stood the enchanter and the old fairy beside her. Then it was all the same thing over again; but the princess had not changed her mind, and the others were as determined as ever. They thought her very obstinate, and she thought them very cruel. They talked to her; they threatened her with all manner of harm, both to herself and to her parents, in case she persisted in her refusal. But Welcome was determined. She declared that she would bear anything sooner than con- sent to what they wished. The enchanter and the old fairy were now more angry than they ever had been before. Had it depended only upon them, they would have had the marriage at once, but they could not force the princess, -- that, she must do her- self; and they could only hope to frighten her into complying. So the enchanter, after a word with the old fairy, said to her: "Since you seem to think that anything would be preferable to becoming my son's wife   I00  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. and Princess of the Dark Country, I will let you feel my power. Until you change your mind, you shall bear the form of whatever rep- tile may be most loathsome to you. "And in that shape earn or find your own living," added the old fairy. As they spoke, Welcome felt her mouth grow wide, and her eyes shrink; her whole body suddenly collapsed and was covered with a smooth green skin; her limbs changed in shape and ended in claws; and, to the great terror of -the princess'-for she had always been terribly afraid of the creatures-she hopped away into a dark corner, transformed into a green frog, bearing on its head a tiny gold crown, into which her beautiful hair had been changed.  .    CHAPTER XI. HOW SELIM LEFT THE SILVER ISLANDS. ( T DURING all this time the king of the Sil- ver Islands and Queen Amoretta had been very lonely, very sad, and very fearful that they would never see their beautiful daugh- ter again. And if they had even imagined that such a thing as-her transformation into a green frog was possible, they would have felt even worse than they did. But as they knew noth- ing of what was happening to her, and besides trusted in the promise of the two fairies that she. should one day be restored to them, they tried to be as patient as they could under the circumstances. But the young painter Selim was very far from being patient. In fact, he was probably the most unhappy man in all the king's domin- ions. He sat by the sea and thought all the 9*             OI   102  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. day long; he could do nothing else. He tried to paint, but the beautiful face of the princess came continually between him and his picture; he dreamed of her by night, he thought of her by day; he wondered where she was, and what fate had befallen her; and wished he were a prince that he might go and rescue her from the enchantment. So the days went by very slowly. But they would have passed even more slowly to Selim if he had had the faintest idea that his beauti- ful princess, because she would -not marry a horrible giant, had been changed, first, into a motionless stone, and that she was now im- prisoned in the form of a frog. Fortunately for Selim, he knew nothing of all this, or it would have made him still more unhappy. So far as he himself was concerned, he would have cared nothing about being a prince, for he knew princes were no happier than other people, though they wore finer clothes and lived in handsomer houses. But the king's proclamation expressly stated that only a prince could rescue the princess, and that was Selim's   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I03 only reason for wishing that he had been so fortunate as to have been born in a palace; and instead, he did not even know who his father and mother could be. For Selim knew well enough, for she often had told him the story, how he had been brought by the little waves to the kind woman who had taken care of him. In a corner of the cottage there still stood the hollow, boat-like limb which had brought him safely over the sea; on his arm there still was the strange bracelet which had grown as he grew, and which bore an inscription he could not read, but which he hoped would some day tell him who he really was. He had no idea, however, how such a thing could ever come to pass; and if he never had seen the Princess Welcome, he would have been content to live as he always had done; but seeing her, and then receiving his new sight, had given him clearer and higher views, and made him- wish for better things than he had previously known. He had been thinking of all this so intently, one day, that he could not sit in the cottage,   104  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. and, so he went out on the sandy beach. No sooner had he stepped out of his door than he saw a little brown sparrow fluttering and chirp- ing before him, evidently trying to attract his attention, and he went up to it. But the spar- row flew a little farther, and a little farther, and Selim followed it till he came to a smooth place on which was written: GO TO THE SUMMER-LAND. Just those five words, and nothing more; and the sparrow, apparently content with what she had done, was gone, and Selim could only stand and look at the words written upon the shore. They puzzled him exceedingly. Evidently it was intended as a message for him, or else the sparrow would not have led him there so carefully. Yet he did inot understand why it should have been for him; he never had heard of the Summer-1land; he did not know how it was possible for him to go there, for he knew no one who ever had been there, and there was no one to tell him the way. But   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    105 just as this thought came into his mind, it seemed to him that a low voice whispered: I' Far across the moonlit sea, There the Summer-Land must be." But then a light breeze swept by, and Selim I: thought it was only the plashing of the little waves, and the low voice of the wind he had heard. So he went back to his cottage; but he could think of nothing but the/words which he had seen written on the beach. Yet he made no effort to obey them; he would not have known where to seek for the Summer-Land. Yet the name seemed familiar; he was almost sure he had heard it before; and he thought about it until the Princess Welcome nearly passed for a time from his memory. A day or two passed thus; and then Selim walked again upon the beach to look at the words which had so puzzled him. No trace of them was left; playful little waves had run over ,and over them until the sand lay in tiny ripples where the writing had been; and Selim went   I06  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. back to his cottage, rather sorry that he had learned nothing more about the writing on the beach. He sat down in the door and looked out upon the sea. But he had not been there many moments before a sweet perfume, like the breath of many roses, swept by him, and then suddenly a beautiful lady, crowned with roses, stood beside him. He rose to salute her, but, without noticing his low bow, she said to him (and the moment she spoke, Selim remembered her voice--for it was the same voice through whose bidding he had recovered his sight-- and he knew that a fairy stood before him): "Why have you not obeyed the words on the sand?" "How could I?" Selim asked, " when I was not even sure- they were meant for me; and then, where should I go to seek the Summer- Land?" "Did not the sparrow lead you to the words?" f the fairy asked. "No one save yourself lives on this shore; and nothing can be found unless it is sought after."   THE ENCHANTED' PRINCESS.    I07 "I know that," Selim replied, "but-" "But what? Have you no wish to see the Princess Welcome rescued from her enchant- ment?" "No wish for that!" was all Selim could say; but the expression of his face was enough. The fairy smiled. "To secure her rescue, and regain her proper form,--for she is now imprisoned in the shape of a hideous frog, - it is necessary that you should go to the Summer-Land, and bid the prince of that country go to-her rescue. He shall have all the assistance that can be given him by my sister and myself; but you are the only person who can bear him this message, as he is the only prince who can rescue her from the Dark Country. But he must go of his own free will." "I would do anything for the princess!" Selim exclaimed, though his heart sunk at the thought that another than himself should rescue the beautiful Welcome. "But where am I to find the Summer-Land? "You must seek till you find it; for nothing   I08  'THE ENCHANTED. PRINCESS. can be found without seeking." And before Selim. could say another word, the- fairy had disappeared as suddenly as she had come, and the only trace of her presence left was a lovely rose which had fallen from her crown, and now lay on the sand at Selim's feet. He picked it up as a reminder of the task which he had assigned himself, - to bear the fairy's message to the fortunate prince of the Summer-Land. But where was the Summer-Land to be found? He asked himself that question over and over again. That it must be sought for, he knew; but how and where should he begin the search? He pressed the rose to his lips, and it sent forth a cloud of fragrance. The rose could not speak, but he felt encouraged. Yet it nearly broke his heart when he thought of the beauti- ful princess being changed into a frog; and then he almost envied the prince of the Sum- mer-Land, because he was the one chosen to restore her to her proper form. Yet not for one moment did he hesitate about his duty. Only through him, after all, could the princess be rescued. That was comfort enough. He   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.;   I09 only could carry the message and promise of -the fairy to the happy chosen prince. And Selim would have liked to set out immediately. Just at that moment he noticed that, while he had been thinking, the day had gone, and it was now night; the stars were shining over- head, and they looked up at him, twinkling, from the calm waters. And then the moon rose; and as she rose, her light lay in a long, shining path across the sea, and Selim began to wonder to himself if that could possibly be the path which led to the Summer-Land. As this thought came into his mind, he felt sure that he was right; for immediately a thou- sand tiny little waves came chasing each other along the moonlit path on the sea. Up to Selim's very feet they came, in playful plashing; and it seemed to him that each little wave tried to speak to him with a tiny rippling voice, like the murmur in a sea-shell; but though he list- ened, he could distinguish nothing of what they were trying to say, though one after an- other came with its message to him. iJ  He listened and listened, but uselessly. Why IO   "O  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. should the little waves try to speak to him, when he could not understand their language,? It was like the writing on the sand, he thought; and just at that moment he felt a slight prick on his fingers from the rose he was holding, and as he raised his hand to look at it, the pain stopped at once, and the rose sent forth a sud- den breath of perfume. As he inhaled it, he noticed that he could distinguish the wave- voices; and then he understood that the rose -had been left with him as a sort of guide for his actions. He smelt the rose, and as he did so, the little tiny waves -only rolling along the moonlit path, while the rest of the sea was smooth as glass--came hurrying in greater numbers to his feet. And they all murmured together; and as Selim bent down towards them, he found he could at last understand what they were trying to say to him; and this is what he heard: "We brought you here; we brought you here; Trust, trust to us, and have no fear." And each successive set of waves said the same thing to him.   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. *    III "I would willingly trust to you," Selim said, dipping his hand into the little waves; " but then, you see, I cannot swim so far." The little waves rippled faster than ever at this. Then Selim heard them say: ' As across the waters deep, We once bore you in your sleep, So again you now must go, Guided by our gentle flow." "Aye; but how?" Selim asked them. And once more the waves answered him: "We 'can speak but what we know: As you came, so you must go." And then they were silent. They still rippled at his feet, but there was no voice heard in their rippling, and Selim found they either could not or else would not answer any more questions. "It is very true that the waves brought me here," Selim said to himself, as he began to walk up and down the beach; " and they say I must go as I came. I can't turn baby again, and lie in a hollow limb; that is very certain."   "2 - THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. But as he said this to himself, he thought that perhaps he could convert the old hollow limb into a sort of boat, which would carry him from the Silver Islands, as it had once brought him across the sea to them. He knew that the good woman who had raised him had carefully kept it, because one must always be careful of things given or sent by the fairies. He went into the cottage in search of it. Theie it stood, as it always had done, in a cor- ner; but it seemed, so Selim thought, very much larger than it ever had been before. He could scarcely lift it; but at last he managed to bring it out on the beach. No sooner had it touched the sand than the little waves ran hastily up the shore to meet it, and rippled lovingly around it, as though greeting an old friend. And, to Selim's great astonishment, as the water kissed, with its moist touches, the hard, dry bark, the old log changed its form, and the next moment a graceful little boat floated lightly on the surface of the water. It was not necessary for Selim to be told   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    113 that the next thing to be 'done was for him to step into the boat. But as he did so, he could not help thinking of three wise men who had once set sail on the sea. in a great round boat, which had never come back to land; but they had only gone because they had some curiosity to find out why the sea was salt; and he had been sent, so he did not feel uneasy. No sooner had he stepped into the boat than the little waves began to carry it away from the shore, right along the bright track of moon- light which lay on the sea. They rippled and played around it caressingly, as though they were glad to bear it along. And presently, as they went farther from the shore, Selim noticed that tiny, shell-like vessels kept them company, and that beautiful forms swam alongside, and helped the little boat along. They were either sea-fairies or else mermaids, - most likely the latter, for when Selim would have spoken to them, they seemed shy, and drew back into the dark water on either side of the moon-lit path, so that he could not see them; and when, he was quiet, they returned. lo*      H   I 4   THE ENCHANTED     PRINCESS. For some time the boat went on quietly. Then, all of a sudden, the little waves were still, and the boat stopped. All along the mermaids had been singing low, soothing songs; but now they were silent, and the boat lay motionless. And presently a new voice began to sing: FIRST VOICE. "Who, to-night, hath sought his way O'er the moon-lt ocean spray? Who hath dared to-night to float In the wave-led fairy boat-? Mortal man should never be Led across our moon-lit sea." SECOND VOICE. "Written words upon the sand Bade him seek the Summer-Land. Fairest of each flower that grows, He doth hold the magic rose. By the gifts that in it be, Let him cross the moon-lit sea." THRD VOICE. "He hath harm'd nor bird nor beast, Let him pass on to the East. There a princess waiteth long, Held in an enchantment strong. None can tidings bring gave he Who shall cross the moon-lit sea."     THE ENCHANTED     PRINCESS.    115 FIRST VOICE. -"Sisters, bear him on his way, O'er the trackless ocean spray; Lay him safely on the strand Of the happy Summer-land. Of all men alone shall he Cross to-night our moon-lit sea." Then the voices died away into silence, and Selim felt the little waves and the mermaidens again bearing him   on.  But all was still, and at last he fell asleep.   CHAPTER XII. HOW A MOUSE FRIGHTENED THE GIANT.    I THE Princess Welcome hopped into the  first friendly hole that she could find, X just as fast as she could, so as to get away X from the enchanter and the old fairy, -for all she thought of, at first, was to get out of their sight. She squatted quietly in the dark hole  into which she had crept; for some time trem-e bling so much that she really could not move, i and scarcely able either to realize or to under- 1 stand the change which she had undergone.  . She grew calmer at last, and then she began to!: look into her present condition. She raised her l hands - they were no longer hands, but were covered with a green: skin. This same green : skin enclosed her whole body, and it seemed' very strange to her when she thought that she,  the Princess Welcome, was confined within its   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    II7' narrow limits; her eyes had moved to the top of her head; and she began to feel that she was no longer a princess, but really and truly, so far as appearances went, a frog, and only a frog, a gaping, wide-mouthed, waddling frog. She stayed in the hole into which she had crept until she thought that there was no dan- ger of her meeting either of the three whom she considered her enemies. But she hopped out at last, and as she went along she came to a little pool of water, and stopped to look at her reflection in it. But she was horrified when she saw it. Until that moment, she had hoped it was an ugly dreamt from which she might, after a- while, awaken; but no;- there stared up at her, from the water, one of the ugliest frogs one can possibly imagine. She started back; she could not believe that she saw her- self; and presently two great tears came and fell into the little pool. Such a commotion as they caused in the pool! Just two drops of water falling into it; yet they made a great agitation there. And then, frog after frog came up to the surface of   Ii8  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.  the water, till Welcome began to wonder if all : the frogs in the Dark Country lived in that one  little pool, so many came out of it. She was not prepared, however, for the fuss they imme- ; diately began to make because two tears had fallen into the pool. And it greatly astonished X her to find that she could understand the frog- language, which before had only, so she thought, ! been a sort of croaking; but now she knew what X they were saying, just as well as if she had been a frog all her life. But she was afraid of them, X and tried to hop out of their way. It was, how- ever, of no use, for the frogs had seen her, and they all gathered around her. "There is the frog who disturbed the water,"  one croaked; "what shall be done with her?" ! "She is very ugly," another remarked, hop- : ping up to her. "I think her ugliness is punish- ment enough."               ei "And where did she get that yellow thing e she wears on her head?" a third went on.  "Take her altogether, she is as ugly a frog as ever I saw. May I ask where you came from?"  she inquired of- Welcome.  i g   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I I9 The princess began to try and explain, but, not one of the frogs would listen to her; or rather, they were willing enough to listen, until she said that she had once been a princess; and then there was a tremendous croak. "She can't expect us to believe that!" they exclaimed. "Once a frog, always a frog; and no frog in all Frog-Land ever was a princess, or ever will be a princess. Nothing of the kind ever happened to any of us, and it is simply impossible that it could have happened to you." "I assure you that I am telling the truth," Welcome began; but an old frog interrupted her. "Pooh, pooh! tell that to the toads, for the frogs won't believe you. My dear friends," she continued, turning to the other frogs, " we must punish this creature for trying to deceive us, and afterwards no frog must speak to her. Let every frog avoid henceforth the frog with the crown, and let the punishment begin." The frogs in a moment crowded around Welcome, and there is no knowing what might have happened to her, if just then the giant   120  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESSo Tintinabulo had not appeared in the distance. ! Hi As not one of the frogs was desirous of being A eaten, in an instant every one of them had hopped back into the pool, and there was not  one of them to be seen, and Welcome followed X their example by taking refuge in her hole.  She was afraid to come out again for several ; days. In the first place, she was afraid of the ; frogs, and in the next place, she was afraid of  Tintinabulo. She knew he would eat her if he  caught her, just as he would eat any other frog;  and so she kept out of his way. It was easy  to do, for he wasso large that he could be seen  a long way off in the daytime, and when it grew dark his golden teeth shone with a strange ! yellow light, visible at a great distance; and so M Welcome knew when he was coming, and  always kept out of his way. The only comfort she had was this: that, so long as she was a frog, she could not possibly  marry the giant. So she rather hoped that  she might remain a frog until the true' prince  came to rescue her, and then she wanted to be i herself again. She felt quite safe so long as ",         .,     THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. ' 121 she wore the frog-skin; and it did not at all disturb her to think that the other frogs would have nothing to do with her. But at last she grew very hungry, and began to wish she had something to eat. Where to find it she did not know; for she had never been accustomed to wait upon herself, and since she had been a frog she had been left to her own devices. So she knew if she wanted something to eat, she must either find it, or else earn it, or go- without;- for so the old fairy Malevola had commanded. She came out of the hole, hoping she would find something, she did not much care what, provided it was something to eat. But nothing could she find, though she went all around the place, or field, in which the pool was. At last she came to a stone on which a large frog sat, washing her face. She looked good- natured, and so Welcome stopped by her, though she was almost afraid to speak to her. "Will you please tell me where I can find something to eat?" she said to the frog. The frog looked at her. II   122  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. "You are the foolish frog, I believe," she remarked.            . "I may be very foolish," the princess replied; "but, for all that, I am very hungry."     X "Catch flies, then," the large frog said; and just then an enormous blue-bottle fly flying  past, she caught it and ate it, as if to set an ex- ample, and then hopped off as fast as she could. X Fortno frog was allowed to be with the princess. , "I can't eat flies, if I am  a frog," the princess said to herselfi "Oh dear, oh dear!  what shall I do? I must go back to my hole   X and starve; and then I never will be myself again."            -  She hopped back to her hole in a very dis- consolate mood. There she squatted in a cor- ner and cried, and was very homesick; for, though she wore the shape of a frog, she still  i had the feelings of a princess.  If she only could go home! Had she known the way, she would have tried to go, for there seemed no restraint laid on her movements; yet she knew very well that she was as much in the power of the great enchanter Feliscat, and of the old !, 'n                il   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I23 fairy Malevola, as she ever had been. But she wondered why they had brought her into the Dark Country only to starve her. While she sat in the hole and thought of all these things, she was suddenly surprised at hearing an eager little chirping just outside, as though something was trying to attract her attention. She took no notice of it, however, till she heard her name called very gently; and then she came out to see who it was that wanted her. And there stood Mrs. Robin and a little brown sparrow; and Welcome immediately knew it was the same sparrow which had warned her to touch nothing strange in the garden. She was terribly disappointed to find that they had no power to take her home. But they gave her food that she could eat, and promised her that every day, at a certain time, she should find food there, that they would bring her. And the sparrow bade her be patient, as her friends had not forgotten her; but that even now they were trying to destroy the enchant- ment, and promised that when the time drew   124  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. near for the true prince to come, that she would  either come herself, or else send Mrs. Robin to B tell her. And she also told the princess' to remain where she was, so that they might know where to find. her after the giant Tin- X tinabulo was destroyed; as if she tried to escape  she might lose her way, and never be found ( again.          .        ,  Then the two flew away, and Welcome felt encouraged. She knew the sparrow must be a fairy in disguise, or she never could have come I into the Dark Country, and have brought Mrs. X Robin with her; and then it was such a com- M fort to know that, some of these days, all her troubles would cease. Every day, too, she found food that she could X eat in the place the sparrow had designated to her. She never knew how it came, or who   C brought it; but there it always was. So that the only trouble she had now was the fear of the giant Tintinabulo. He was in the habit of walking every day in X the field, and eating every stray frog he could find. But Welcome was fortunate enough to   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    125 be- able to keep out of his way. She would have liked very much to have stayed in her hole all the time, except when it was absolutely necessary for her to go in search of the food with which the kind sparrow kept her supplied; but though she retained the thoughts and feel- ings of a princess, she had, with the frog's shape, acquired its habits, and it was absolutely necessary for her, in consequence, to go and swim in the little pools, and lie in the mud. There was no help for it. However, she always tried to go out at the times when she was least likely to come into Tintinabulo's way. She had never felt the *least inclined to be devoured; and now that the sparrow had encouraged her to hope for a rescue, she was still more anxious to be safe; and as she was more afraid just now of the giant with the golden teeth than she was of any one or of anything else, she carefully kept out of his way. But one day Tintinabulo did not come into the field. And Welcome waited and waited; for she had never dared to go out of her hole II *   I26  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. until after he had made his daily visit; but he never made his appearance. So the princess concluded that he was not coming. She would have liked, as a matter of precaution, to have remained where she was; but there was such a beautiful pool in the opposite corner of the field, and - she had no choice about it-go to it she must; for it would be such a delightful X place for a swim. The princess thought it a very great nuisance  that the frog-shape should have so much control over her as to make her do things she con- sidered imprudent; but it was part of the en- chantment, and that was more powerful than  she was. So she went to the pool, because she'  really could not help going; and after she got i there, the water was so nice and the mud was so soft, that the frog had a very nice time, '  though the princess was very uneasy.     X At last she came out of the pool, and sat on  a stone to rest. But then Welcome began to think, and she thought of her home, and her i* 1 father and mother, and how glad she would be X to return to them, till she forgot all about her , ;( s    THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I27 being a frog, and that she had to take care of herself, and she never gave a thought to the giant Tintinabulo. But Tintinabulo had not forgotten the frogs. Only he had' taken a longer nap than usual, and that had delayed his visit to the frog-field. And presently he came along, and the very first frog which he saw was the princess. Poor Welcome! she had been thinking so intently that she never heard the giant's ap- proach; never knew that he was anywhere near her until his great hand closed over her, and she knew it was too late to escape. At least, so she thought; for she did not know that, unseen to her, the fairies kept watch over her. And all the time that she had been sitting, thinking, on the stone, a little, bright-eyed mouse had been hidden underneath it, watching, in case any danger should come near the princess. And just as the giant's hand touched Welcome, the little mouse jumped upon the stone, and ran across Tintinabulo's hand, giving his thumb a good hard bite as she passed; and as there was nothing, except his   i28  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.         father, that Tintinabulo was more afraid of than - he was of a mouse, he dropped the frightened : princess, and ran out of the -frog-field just as ; hard and as fast as he could go, trembling from ' , head to foot; and Welcome, wondering greatly at her escape--for the little mouse was gone - got back safely to her hole.        I But Tintinabulo .went and told his father i how dreadfully he had been frightened by the mouse.                    . "How silly in you not to catch and kill the mouse," said the enchanter to him. "Nasty little beast!" said the giant; " noth- -: ing would induce me to touch it."      t "Much better if you had; for it was my enemy, the fairy. Musimousa; and if you only had killed her it would have saved a great deal' of trouble. But then you did not know." "I- don't believe that," Tintinabulo said to himself. "For- no one, much less a fairy, would ever change themselves into such a hateful little wretch! Ugh! I. don't like to think about it."  Nasty little beast,' said the giant."- Page 128. r     THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I29 But the enchanter was right. And Tintina- bulo was so afraid of seeing the mouse again that he kept away from the frog-field in future, and Welcome could go from and return to her hole without fear of him.   CHAPTER XIII. HOW THE PRINCE WAS LOST AND FOUND. H  OW  long his sleep lasted, Selim never knew. But the fairy boat must have gone quietly on and on while he slept; for when he awoke at last, he found himself lying on a soft grassy bank not far from the shore. The ocean lay, still, calm, and trackless, before him; no sign of the boat which had brought him across it, was to be seen; nor did he know how or by whom he had been placed upon the soft grass on which he lay. The rose was still in his hand, but secured to its stem by a tiny golden wire was a small, dry twig, which had not been there before, and Selim knew at once that it was the boat which had conveyed him across the ocean. He knew instinctively, too, that he was now in the Summer-Land. For the air was softer I30   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I31 and milder than any which he had ever felt be- fore; beautiful flowers bloomed everywhere; roses grew wherever a rose could grow, and he felt that he had really come, with no effort of his own, to a land of perpetual summer; and had found the country he had been bidden to seek. Still holding the rose in his hand, he got up from the grassy bank, and walked away from the sea. He had been brought here to deliver a message to the prince of the country, and although he did not know where to find him, Selim knew that nothing, as the fairy had said, could be found without seeking. So he hoped that he might meet some one who would guide and direct him, though he rather wondered whether the people of the country would believe his story as to how he had been brought into the Summer-Land, and felt rather doubtful as to how he would be treated. But he had not gone many steps before he met a number of people coming down to the shore. Each of them wore a rose, and they spoke among themselves in a language which   132  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. Selim had never heard before,yet which, strange to say, he could understand. He wondered where he could have heard it, for it seemed as familiar to him as the songs with which, when a baby, he had been lulled to sleep. Then he thought that perhaps some one among these people might be able to-tell him where he must go, and what he was to do in order to find the prince of the Summer-Land. None of them seemed to notice him, or to think of his being a stranger; they seemed to take his presence in the country as a mere matter of course. This somewhat surprised him; but at last he went up to one of the party, to ques- tion him, and, to his very great astonishment, Selim found that he could speak the language of the country, for "when he questioned the man whom he had stopped, his words came in the same tongue he had heard them use.  "May I ask," Selim said, "where I can find the prince of your country?" "You are a stranger here," the other replied, "or you would not ask that question. For our prince was lost from us years ago, and on this   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I33 day he is to return to us, and we are going down to the ocean to meet him." "I have just been to the shore," Selim said; "but I saw no one there who looked like a prince." "Then he has not yet come," the man said. "Yet the fairy Rosaleava, the guardian of the Summer-Land, told us that to-day our long-lost prince should be found on the shore, and that we should go there to meet him." "But how will you know your prince?" Selim asked. "We cannot fail to know him," was the reply. Then the whole party, Selim with them, went down to the shore, but no one was to be seen there, and very sorrowfully they began to re- turn to the city from which they had come. As they went back into the country, Selim asked his companion how it had happened that their prince should have been lost. And he was told that many years before the prince was born, it had been predicted of him that he should have the most beautiful wife in the world 12   134  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. - ,a-in-cess famous for her beauty; but that  'ie lhe prince and the princess should have great trouble from a wicked fairy and a great enchanter, who would seek to do them harm; and only great courage on the part of the prince would enable him to succeed in his effobrts to win the princess, and he himself would be ex- posed to great dangers. So that when the little prince came to the king and queen of the Sumfmer-Land, they were both glad and sorry. And when the fairies brought the news to the king that on the satme day, :and at the same hour, a princess, who was to be the most beautiful princess in the world, had come to the Silver Islands, the wise king knew at once that this was the princess in- tended for his son, and he determined to bring up the young prince so that he should be wise and fearless and so brave that he need not fear the dangers through which he must pass. But one day, when the queen, holding the little prince in her arms, was walking along the shore, the child suddenly sprang from her into the water. And before the queen could rush   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I35 forward to save him, a beautiful mermaiden rose partly from the waves, and, catching the little prince in her arms, both child and mer- maid disappeared from the queen's sight. Since that day the lost prince had never been seen in the Summer-Land. Yet, sorry as the king and queen were to part with their darling, they could not feel uneasy about him, for the fairy Rosaleava came to them and told them that he was now safer than he could be even with them,-for neither the enchanter nor the old fairy could molest him, and that some day he should return- to them, far braver and wiser and handsomer, and better able to rescue the beautiful princess, who was destined for him, than he could have been had he been brought a up in their palace. The fairy promised to pro- tect him, and as the king and queen had entire confidence in her, and besides wished their son, to grow up as brave and as wise as a prince could be, they were willing to submit to the separation; and as Rosaleava, at certain times, informed them that' their son was well, and each day becoming more and more all they   I36J THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. couldq desire, they were patient, and waited. B now, so the man told Selim, the time had -coine when the fairy had told the king and queen that they might expect the return of their long absent son. And as all the people rejoiced with their king and queen, the return of the prince was to be celebrated all through the Summer-Land with festivals and games, and every one -was to be happy. And as Selim listened to this story, he won- dered where he could possibly have heard it. It seemed to him, as it was told, that he had known it long, long before, and then he said: "It is just as if I had once known all this." "But how?" asked his companion. "For you say you are a stranger here, and it is not known outside of the Summer-Land." ('True," Selim said. "But it seems to me that I have an indistinct recollection of every- thing which you have told me." "Impossible," the man said. But Selim said no more. On they went, and the farther they went into the country the more beautiful it seemed. And   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    137 as Selim went on, he became more and more puzzled, as though he was, and yet was not, part of all this story the man had been telling him. And the- rose in his hand grew fairer each moment, and sent forth the richest odors, and Selim walked on and on, as in a dream, till they came to the palace. He never knew that a troop of the king's soldiers had met them, and had asked if they had met the prince. He did not hear the an- swer, sadly given, that the prince had not yet come; he did not hear the soldiers say that the king knew this, but that a stranger from a distant country had that night landed in his dominions, and that he was to be brought at once to the palace. Nothing of this did he know. So that it was a surprise to him when he at last found himself standing in the great room of the palace. And on the throne there sat a majestic old man, and near him a noble queen; and Selim longed to throw himself on his knees before them, and implore them to let him al- ways live with and serve them; yet with this i2*"   138  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. there grew up a feeling in his heart for them, different from anything he had ever before known; and he suddenly thought, as he looked upon them, that he had seen those noble faces before, and then it seemed to him that a low voice, the voice of the rose-crowned fairy who had bidden him, on the shore of the Silver Islands, obey the words written on the sand, said to him:  "Learn now why you were bidden to seek the Summer-Land. The prince is found." He came slowly to the foot of the throne, and as he did so, all the people made way for him to pass. Not a word was spoken; but the king came down the steps of the throne as if to meet him, and then the two -the majestic old king and the handsome young man -stood still and looked at one another. And suddenly there came into Selim's heart a wish to throw himself into the king's arms, and cry, "Father, father!" but a great awe kept him back, and he could only stand and look into the king's calm eyes. And while the two stood thus, there came a   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I39 sudden joy into the face of the noble queen, and she, too, rose from the throne and came and stood by the two. She pointed to the rose, which Selim still held, and said: "It is the sign the fairy promised us. Our lost son is found at last." But though Selim thought he had never heard any music sweeter than the gentle tones of the queen's voice, he could not, though he wished it, answer her. The king looked at him still, and then he asked: "Whence came you into my kingdom? and who are you?" "I came from the Silver Islands," Selim an- swered, humbly; " and I am only a poor young painter." The king laid his hand on the bracelet Selim wore, and bade him read its inscription. And the words which he never before had been able to understand, were now plain, and easy to be read: -"Now is found what once was lost: He the star-lit sea hath crost; At his father's feet doth stand Selim, Prince of Summer-Land."'   I40  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. And so Selim knew, at last, why he had been bidden to seek the Summer-Land. For, as he read these lines, a glad smile came on the queen's face, and she spoke: It is all that we needed! For our son was to wear the magic bracelet, which gives fortune and success to him that has it." As the queen spoke, the fragrance of a thou- sand roses filled the hall, and the next moment the fairy Rosaleava stood beside Selim; and he knew at once that by her power he had been brought to the Summer-Land. "He is in truth your son," the fairy said to the king and queen. "I have kept my word; for what was once lost now is found, and I restore you a prince worthy the name. But," to Selim, "remember that your task is only half done; you were lost and have been found; but you have not yet found what was lost." Then the fairy disappeared. But the next moment Selim was clasped in his mother's arms, and then in his father's; while a great shout for joy went up from all the people. For the-lost prince had been found, and when there   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    141 was happiness in the palace, there was rejoicing in all the Summer-Land. Yet-in the midst of all Selim's own happiness, he could not help wondering why the fairy had bidden him re- member that his task was only half done; he never thought that the strange adventures through which he had passed had, for a time, made him wholly forget the Princess Welcome, and think only of himself.   CHAPTER XIV. HOW SELIM REMEMBERED THE PRINCESS. \ /EANTIME Queen Amoretta and her husband began to be almost discouraged about ever seeing their daughter again. It was so long since they had seen her, and it was so very lonely without her; and then they had heard nothing about her since she had been carried away from them. The fairy Musimousa tried to encourage them, saying that after a while, the true prince, who alone could rescue the Princess Welcome, would come; but he had not come as yet, and Queen Amoretta was afraid that he never would come. And yet, quite a number of princes had already attempted the rescue of the princess. Even those princes who had been deceived by the old fairy Malevola had gone in search of the Dark Country, for they now knew that "2   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    143 the princess was really as -beautiful as her pic- tures had represented her, and that the fault had been in their own eyes. They knew, too, that only a brave prince could rescue the prin- cess; and so they were not only ambitious of proving themselves brave, but also of winning such a beautiful prize as the fair Welcome would be, and adding the Silver Islands some day to their own dominions. But not one of them had proved successful. Bravely as they would set out, not one of them had- ever returned, and all that was known was that the true prince had not yet been found; and it, was supposed that none of them had ever found the Dark Country. But as no one had ever come home to tell the story, nothing certain was, of course, known; and after a while, princes began to be a little afraid of going among the many enchantments which seemed to surround the lost-princess; and at the time that Selim left the Silver Islands, the loss of the Princess Welcome was quite an old story, and no prince had lately attempted her rescue. For no one liked to go blindly into   -I44 THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. danger, and the power of the enchantment was such that only the true prince could be aided by the fairies. But the enchanter could have told, had he so chosen, what had become of the princes. It was easy enough for them to find the Dark Country, but no sooner did they cross its limits, , than each of them was changed into a stone. Against the true prince the enchanter could do nothing of this kind, and when he came he would be able to undo all this evil work. The frogs in the frog-field knew well enough where the princes were. For though the giant Tintinabulo, since the little mouse had fright- ened him so terribly, had not dared to go again into the field - for he was a great coward, and dreaded lest the little animal should do him some harm -he still enjoyed eating the frogs; and whenever he could find a stone- and he always found the stones into which the princes were changed - he would go and pelt the poor frogs with them. It was fun for the giant, but death to the' frogs, although they always tried to get out of his way and take refuge in their   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.   145 holes whenever they saw him coming; but throwing stones at, them seemed to be a favorite amusement of his. And so it happened that all the princes who went in search of Welcome came at last to the place where she really was; and although they were changed into stones, there they were with her in the frog-field. Fortunately, they were unconscious of their situation, being only senseless stones, or they might have found it very uncomfortable, lying there in the mud and water, or sat upon by any frog who might think proper to keep his feet dry by sitting on a stone. So that the enchanter and the old fairy seemed to be having things their own way. Only the princess had not yet changed her mind about marrying the giant Tintinabulo, and they were determined to keep her in the frog- skin until she was willing to consent to the wedding taking place. It could not come off so long as she objected; and although the en- chanter and the old fairy Malevola would gladly have forced the princess to submit, in that their power was limited. But they did not despair 13      K   I46', THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS l about being able to frighten Welcome into obedience to them. They thought that, in time, she would become so very tired of living in her present situation, that she would be will- ing to submit to almost any condition, and even marry the giant Tintinabulo, so long as she might be restored to her original form. For they did not know how the sparrow had visited her, and encouraged her to hope for the coming of the true prince. Yet no one was in a very comfortable posi- tion just now. The king of the Silver Islands and Queen Amoretta were very lonely without their daughter; the enchanter and the old fairy were very angry because the princess refused so positively to marry the giant. Tintinabulo cared nothing for that, but he was provoked because the little mouse had frightened him out of the field, and he could not have as many frogs to eat as he liked. It was very disagree-- able for Welcome to be shut up in a frog-skin, and equally unpleasant for the princes who were converted into stones. And Peter, the tall footman, had married a wife, and found he   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    147 could not keep her, for she insisted on having peas porridge hot every day, and would make him no pumpkin-pies; so, in despair, one day, he carried her home in a wheelbarrow, saying he had only married her because, in his house, the rats and the mice had made so much strife, but he'd rather live alone than live with such a wife. Nobody in the Silver-Islands had missed the young painter, and nobody knew or even won- dered where he had gone. Even had he known this, it would not have troubled Selim; for he was happier now than any of the others. There was constant rejoicing in the Summer-Land; and the days flew by so rapidly that they were scarcely here before they were gone, and Selim thought he would never tire of being with his father and mother. It seemed -to him, too, as though he had always been with them, and never had known any other life than the one he now led. For he had laid aside, carefully, the magic rose, and consequently all recollection of the past and of the Princess Welcome had faded from his mind, and he was content to live in, and only   "8  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. think of, the present. And his father and mo- ther, fearing lest he might leave them again, never questioned him about his former life; for they knew well enough that only through dan- ger and trouble could he rescue the princess who was destined for him, and they had no wish to run the risk of losing their son again. But this could not always go on. Just as Selim began to be conscious that-never in all his life had he been so happy before, he was made to remember the past, and that it was for something more than merely to learn he was a prince that he had been brought to the Summer-Land. But one day he was standing at the window of the hall, and looking out on the beautiful rose-garden upon which it opened. And, all of a sudden, every rose seemed to nod and bow to him, as if they were trying to speak to him, and as soon as they had attracted his attention, there flew from the very midst of them the little brown sparrow he had seen before, and it lit on his shoulder and chirped in his ear, and said to him:   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    149- "What have you done with your magic rose? and why have you not carried the message to the prince?"  That was all the sparrow said; yet it was enough. But Selim had wholly forgotten the message, although he now knew that it had been intended for himself. He tried to remem- ber it, but he could not; it had passed from his memory as completely as' though he had never heard it. He wondered what it could have been, but in vain; and at last he concluded that the best thing he could do would be to go in search of the magic rose; and as that had guided him to the Summer-Land, perhaps it might be able to recall to his memory the mes- sage which he had fqrgotten. The rose was not lost, for there it was in the same place where he had so carefully laid it. But -it was strangely altered: it was no longer the fair, blooming, fragrant flower which had been given him, but a withered stem with a few faded leaves. It was with deep regret for his neglect that Selim saw the change that his forgetful- 13*   '50  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. ness had caused. Gently, carefully, he picked I up the faded flower; and, lo! as soon as his hand touched it, the leaves regained their vivid green. The rose bloomed again in more than its former beauty, and sent forth all its old fragrance; and Selim knew that if the wither- ing of the flower had been a sign that the fairies, after all they had done for him, were displeased with him, he also knew that its revival was intended as a token that he was forgiven. With the rose still in his hand, and resolving that it never again should undergo, could he prevent it, the change from which it had just been rescued, Selim stood thinking. But the message! -what could that be? He looked inquiringly at the rose, as though to ask it to aid him, and from its fragrant heart a low voice murmured: "Remember the Princess Welcome!" It was all clear to Selim now. He even knew that, for a time, the same enchantment which held her, had been sufficiently powerful to make him forget the princess. He knew,   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    151 too, that he was indeed the true prince the only one who could rescue her; and for the first time he understood the fairy Rosaleava's words: "Your task is only half done; you have not yet found what was lost." Had it depended wholly upon himself, Selim would have gone at once in search of the prin- cess; for all his love for her had returned, and he was only too willing to go. He could fulfil the two conditions required: he was a prince, and would go of his own free will. But this was not the only thing necessary: his par- ents must be consulted; and as they might not be willing to have him leave them, for he must first return to the Silver Islands, and, besides, they might not consent to his exposing him- self to the many dangers which he knew awaited him, -he scarcely knew how to tell them of his determination, and he was de- termined, so far as lay in his power, to carry out the purpose for which he had been brought to the Summer-Land. How was he to tell his father and mother,   I52  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. who could scarcely bear to have him out of their sight, that he was anxious to leave them? He thought and thought, but no way of intro- ducing the subject presented itself. But at last the king and queen said to him that they would now like him to marry; and they named several princesses from among whom they wished him to choose. But Selim said: "I will marry no one, unless it be the Princess Welcome." Then the queen grew sad; for she had only named the other princesses because she hoped her son would select one of them, and not ex- pose himself to the dangers through which he who rescued the Princess Welcome must pass. But she said: "You are to marry the most beautiful prin- cess in the world, and it is impossible that the one you name can be more beautiful than those I have mentioned to you." And then they showed him the portraits of the princesses. But Selim said they were none ofithem as beautiful as the fair Welcome; and   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    153 then he told them all her story, and how he was determined to go to rescue her. "Show us her portrait," the queen said; "and if she be really more beautiful than the other princesses, we shall know it to be your fate, and that you must go to seek for her." The queen said this, because she thought it was impossible for her ever to see the portrait of the princess. But Selim remembered his former talent as a painter; and he sat down, and. from memory painted a copy of the por- trait he had once before made, and it was so beautiful that, when the queen saw it, she burst into tears, and told her son that now she knew it was useless for her to strive against fate; and that he must go and follow the course which had been appointed for him before he was born. They would have fitted out a great expedition for the prince, but this he steadfastly refused. All the help that he needed he would receive from the fairies; the rest he must do himself. The first thing to be done was to return to the Silver Islands; but how? He took leave of his parents, and went to the beach, holding the   154  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. magic rose in his hand, in hopes that there would be more words on the sand to guide him. No words were there; but, instead of that, so soon as the moon rose, he felt his bracelet grow tighter, and looking at it, he saw on it these words: "O'er the trackless waters' flow, As you came, so you must go." And then they faded away into unintelligible characters. But how was Selim to cross the ocean? The magic boat, which once before had brought him across it, was gone; and, without its aid, what could he do? Suddenly the rose sent out a rush of fragrance, as though to remind him-that it had been forgotten, and its stem pricked him so severely that, in surprise, he dropped the flower from his hand. It fell into the sea; and Selim would have given up his precious rose as lost, if, as it touched the water, he had not seen the little twig, which was still secured to it, change all at once-, into the. little boat which had brought him across the sea, and   g   9, f    "Yet swiftly, Silently watched and guided by the mermaids," etc.-- Page x55.   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I55 on its prow, in newer, fresher beauty, bloomed the magic rose. And Selim needed no bidding to make him embark on the wonderful boat; and as soon as he did so, the vessel, moved by no visible power, began to go out into the sea. But looking over the side, Selim could see, in the clear, moonlit waters, the graceful shapes of the mermaidens and sea-fairies who bore the boat along; but he spoke not to them, nor did they speak to him. On and on they went, and pres- ently a strange drowsiness, such as he had felt before, came over Selim; and ere the shores of the Summer-Land he was leaving had faded from sight, the young prince was asleep. Yet, swiftly, silently, watched and guided by the mermaids, who, now that no mortal eye, waking, could rest upon them, came more boldly to the surface of the sea, the magic boat sailed on over the same moonlit path by which, once before, it had crossed the sea. Q    cXsE^^^XJ )   CHAPTER XV. HOW THE DWARFS TREATED THE PRINCE. AND- once more Selim awoke, to find him- self lying on the shore; but this time it was on the shore of the Silver Islands. He almost thought that it was all some strange dream through which he had passed; that he had never left his home-never crossed the moonlit sea --never visited the fair Summer- Land, for nothing around him seemed changed; and it was to him as though he had only slept and dreamed through one brief summer night; for at his feet the same wavelets rippled and played--the cottage stood untouched, un- changed - the same, or apparently the same, flowers bloomed in its little garden; in its old, accustomed corner still stood the hollow limb, looking as though it never had stirred from its place; and all Selim had to prove to him that 156   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.      157 it was not a dream was this- that in his hand he still held the magic rose. But now, what was he to do?   Twice, in obedience to the fairies, he had crossed the ocean, and, as it would seem, with no visible result either time. For he was now, to all ap- pearance, in exactly the same position as when he had seen the writing on the sand; only he had the remembrance of all that had passed, and of the parents he had found in the Summer- Land. But what did it matter to him that he had found them, since he knew not how to return to them? What did he care that he was a prince, since he knew not how to rescue the, Princess Welcome? He almost wished that it had been in truth a dream, for he greatly feared that, like the princess, he was under the control of some strange enchantment. But just as-this thought came into his mind, a low voice whispered: "If you would the princess save, Prince, be faithful, true, and brave. He who on this search would go, May not fear nor doubting know."' "   I58  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. "I have no fear. I feel no doubt," Selim exclaimed, joyfully. "Only tell me what I am to do, and so far as lies in my power, it shall be done." The answer came: "Wheresoe'er we lead you on, Follow till the prize be won." And the next moment the same little sparrow Selim had so often seen before, flew slowly along before him for a moment, and then dis- appeared. But on the sand over which it had flown Selim saw these words: Go TO THE PALACE. He knew well enough that if he had in truth the wish to rescue the princess, he must do exactly as he was told. He needed no guide to the palace; and without a moment's hesita- tion, he left the shore and started on his jour- ney. In due time he reached the palace, and on sending his name, by the tall footman, to the king and queen, was instantly admitted to their presence. But what was his astonishment to   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    159 discover that they not only were aware of all that had happened to him during his absence, but that they endeavored to-dissuade him from his endeavors to restore the princess. "It is not that we do not wish you success," Queen Amoretta said to him; " or that we do not wish to regain our daughter; but it is only fair you should know that not one of the princes who have gone in search of Welcome have ever returned." "That may be true," Selim said, modestly; "but you seem to know my story; and if I am willing to make the attempt, you must see that I have at least a reasonable chance of success." "That is what the fairy Musimousa said, when she told us your story; and then, too, she promised to help you," said the king. At that moment the fairies Rosaleava and Musimousa appeared. "And we are ready to keep our promise," they said to the young man. "Most of what is to be done must be done by you, but so far as we can, we will help you. But you must depend chiefly on yourself, for a powerful en-   i60  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. chanter and a wicked fairy are leagued together against us, and the only way in which you can overcome them and destroy the giant is by showing truth, fidelity, and bravery." Then the king and queen hesitated no longer, but wished Selim all success, and asked what they should do for him. But before Selim could answer, :the two fairies said that there was nothing for any one to do. That of his own free will he went; and that if he was in- deed the true prince, the way would be made clear before him, for the magic rose would guide him wherever it would be necessary for him to go. And they also told him that he must find and enter the Dark Country alone; and they bade him beware how he treated those who lived in the places through which he passed, as much would depend upon them, and they could prevent his passing through their country if they saw fit. The two fairies then disappeared, and Selim, after taking leave of the king and queen, set' out in search of the Dark Country. He trav- elled on and on alone, but the farther he went   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     i6I the farther off the place he sought seemed to be. No one whom he asked could tell him where to find it, though every one had heard of it; and Selim began to wonder if he really was destined to be successful. 'Y"et on and on he went, till he came to a place where there was no water, no green thing, only a vast stretch of sand and of stones. No path crossed this dreary land, no living thing was to be seen in it; yet Selim went on boldly. Day after day passed, and still he travelled across the sandy waste. He never felt hunger, thirst, nor weariness, for the sweet fragrance of the magic rose sustained him. Yet no voice was heard, and Selim was alone in all this trackless solitude. He began to realize why it was needful for him to be faithful, true, and brave who went on this search. At last the sandy waste was crossed, and Selim came to a great forest. So closely grew the trees, that at first Selim thought it would be impossible for him to pass among them. Yet here, as in the sandy waste, the power of the magic rose displayed itself. At its approach, "*  ,    L   I62  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. the trees parted and made way for him who bore it. The strange, threatening shapes lurk- ing- in their shadows slunk away as it drew near, and Selim saw that the two 'fairies had kept their word that nothing, so long as he held the magic rose, could harm him. He felt no fear of those who dwelt in the forest. After the loneliness of the desert, it was almost pleasant to see something which had life and motion, though everything be- tokened more than mortal power. Elves and dwarfs lurked in every corner, sat on every stone, and swung on every tree-- elves, some of them of strange beauty, yet who, on closer approach, changed to hideous dwarfs; and the dwarfs, as Selim drew near, would leap into the tiny pools under the trees, and then nothing was to be seen but toads and frogs staring at him from the water; or else they would roll along in front of him, and suddenly only a huge mushroom would be seen where they had been. Threatening voices would bid him be- ware of going on. Yet on and on Selim went, never harming the dwarfs in their strange trans-   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I63 formations - never harmed by them - and yet knowing that they were unwilling to have him pass through their country. Yet at last the forest was left behind, and looking forward, Selim saw on the distant hori- zon a huge, dark cloud. No one was there-to tell him, yet he felt that at last he had found the Dark Country, and that the cloud he saw in the distance was its dark, murky atmos- phere. He began to feel that in finding the Dark Country,- which at one time had seemed so remote, so unattainable, he was approaching the end of his labors. In part, he had found what he sought; yet he knew that it was not sufficient for him to find the Dark Country; he must enter it, brave its dangers, and release the princess by destroying the enchantment which held her. What this enchantment was he knew not; nor by what means he was to destroy it. The mere fact that he had, after many days, found the Dark Country, gave him encouragement; and trusting to the guidance which had so far   I64  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. led him safely on, he was willing to encounter the dangers and difficulties which more than ever before awaited him in the Dark Country. And yet he felt some slight hesitation. He knew that every art of the great enchanter would be exerted to frustrate the attempted rescue; he knew that a single mistake on his part would throw him hopelessly, helplessly, into the hands of those evil powers, and detain him, as well as the princess, captive in the Dark Country. Brave, faithful, true as Selim was, it was no cowardice that made him trem- ble at the thought of what awaited him in case of failure. He would not think of this, however; he tried only to think of the happiness of success. Yet try as he would, he could come no nearer to the dark cloud in the distance; it seemed to him that it fled before him, let him try as he might to approach it. At last, almost in de- spair, he sat down on the ground, and then, to his great astonishment, he discovered that, in spite of all his efforts, he had not moved from the place where first he had perceived the Dark Country.   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I65 Without knowing that he spoke aloud, Selim asked himself why it was that he was thus de- tained; and, as if in answer to him, a voice behind him said: "We gave you no permission to cross our country."' And just behind him there stood the queerest old dwarf that can be imagined; for he had horns and long whiskers, and a beard so long that, to keep himself from tripping on it, he had it twisted around his head like ,a turban; a wreath of green leaves was on his brow; and somehow he seemed to be dressed in leaves. Take him altogether, he was decidedly comical in his appearance; and although he had spoken in quite a surly tone, there was a twinkle in his little green eyes which showed he was not wholly in earnest. "I did riot know any permission was needed," Selim said to the dwarf. "I could easily have asked it, had I known whom to ask." "No harm done," the dwarf rejoined. "You did no one any harm as you passed through the forest, or else we could have detained you;   I66  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. but the next question is, if we will allow you to go on." "' You may as well," SeIim said. - It is not pleasant to walk and walk, and yet stay in one place." "I'm not as green as I look!" the dwarf began. "Your dress is green," Selim said; but the dwarf interrupted him. "My dress is any color I choose," he said; and, sure enough, it was red in a minute, and then green again. "You see I need not always be green. Now tell me where you are going, and where you came from." And the dwarf seated himself comfortably upon a red mush- room. So Selim had to begin at the beginning, and tell the story to the end. And the dwarf never interrupted him; he only said, "Oh!" and "Hum!" in the proper places. But when the story was done, he remarked: "Do you know that the princess is a green frog, and that you can only rescue her by kill- - ing the giant?"   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    i67 "No," Selim said; "I did not know this. But if you will allow me to pass your country, I will at least try to do what I can." I "I have no objections," said the dwarf. "But we must see what my people will say." "Your people!"Selim repeated, -" where are they?" "It is not polite to repeat," the dwarf said. "I am the king of the Forest Dwarfs, and my people are around you." "I don't see them," Selim said. "Easily remedied. They are all around you." And with that the dwarf drew a whistle out of his pocket, and blew it three times. And here, jthere and everywhere, little yellow, blue, green, red, and white dwarfs appeared, till they were as numerous as the blades of grass in a field; and they came in such crowds that Selim was afraid to move, lest he should tread on them. He wondered-where they could all have come from. "Shall we let him pass on?" the king of the dwarfs asked. Then there was a great commotion in the crowd, and then the red dwarfs came forward   i68  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. and said, and their voices sounded like the buzzing of a-thousand bees: "Let him pass on!"  - Then the yellow dwarfs came forward: "He has gone so far; he may as well} go farther." "Shall we help him kill the giant?" was the king's next questions This time the blue dwarfs came, but before they could answer, Selim exclaimed: "How can you kill the giant?" "We are the only people who can help you," said the king. "But you should have waited until the people answered me." The green dwarfs said: "We must ask the owl." And with that a  t great white owl came softly out of the crowd, and bowed to the king: "Tu-whit! tu-whit! tu-whee I You must listen to me!" said the white owl. "We always listen to you," was the king's reply.   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I69 "Then, I say, kill 'the giant," said the owl. "He ate up two fine frogs the other day, which I had been watching, and is generally trouble- some." The king consulted apart with the white dwarfs. Then he turned to Selim. "If you can bring the giant into our country, we will promise to kill him for you; but only on one condition, that you give us his golden teeth." "I am certainly willing," Selim said; "but what a strange thing that is to ask for." "He is called Tintinabulo the Golden- Toothed," was the reply; "and he only can be killed by those who can obtain possession of his teeth. And unless he is killed, the en- chantment holding the Princess Welcome can- not be broken." "I will bring the prince 'some sleep-juice when it is needed," said the owl. "But I see that he has the magic rose, and by its power we are pledged to help him in everything." "He shall pass through our country, and we will help him," said all the dwarfs together, - 5   I70  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. and the next moment they were all gone, dis- appearing as suddenly as they had appeared, and not a trace of one of them was to be seen, and Selim was alone. But he now found that he was at liberty to go forward, and in a very short time he had passed through the dwarfs' country, and began to feel the dark, cloud-like atmosphere close around-him.   CHAPTER XVI. HOW SELIM WENT THROUGH THE DARK COUNTRY. YET in this strange region it was not as dark as Selim had expected. It was dark, to be sure, dark enough for him to understand readily why the country was called the Dark Country; yet he could easily see his way be- fore him. It was not long before he discovered that the light on his path all proceeded from the magic rose which he held, and that wher- ever its radiance shone it was safe for him to tread. If he had seen, in passing through the dwarfs' forest, strange shapes everywhere, and heard threatening voices, here in the Dark Country they were still more numerous. Every effort of the enchanter's art seemed to be put forth in order to terrify him who strove to enter this gloomy region. Creatures with bat-like wings 171   172  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. flew heavily against him; ugly dwarfs endeav- ored to push him into the deep morasses cover- ing the country; giant forms threatened him; hoarse voices bade him go back, else he would share the fate of those who had preceded him; lurid fires sprang from the ground on which he was about to step; and Selim, for the first time, began to wish that he had not come upon the search in which he was engaged. At last, just before him, Selim saw a huge flame of fire which seemed advancing to consume him. Such enemies as this he was not prepared to contend with. Anything that could be strug- gled with and fought against, Selim was ready and willing to meet, but neither he nor any one, he thought, could pass unharmed through this coming ordeal. What could he do? It seemed impossible to advance--it might be equally hard to re- turn. But as he hesitated, again the bracelet on his wrist, by its tightening pressure, reminded him of its presence, and looking at it, he read: st Have no fear of fire or foes While you bear the magic rose."   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    173 And all at once he noticed that wheresoever the rose-light 'ell, everything fled away before it, and took refuge in the surrounding darkness, or else proved only shadows, or assumed its true shape. Turning the rose so that its full power might fall on the threatening flame, it faded slowly, and the next moment Selim saw that at his feet lay a broad, marshy field, and that across it what had appeared to him only a huge fire, was in truth the shapeless rocky castle in which the enchanter lived. Just as Selim began fully to realize this, a low voice whispered, close to his ear: "One step back, and, like all who have pre- ceded you, you would have been changed into stone. Well for you that the bracelet spoke, else you would have become a captive in the Dark Country. As it is, go boldly forward; there are those near you who will endeavor to aid you." It was all Selim needed. Without a mo- ; ment's hesitation, he started bravely across the marshy field. Here and there stones lay scat- tered about it, and ,Selim would gladly have TC C   174  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. stepped upon them, to avoid going through the deep mire and mud, but he noticed that the light from the rose never fell on them, never even touched one of them, and he feared to step except where its rays led him. It was the frog-field through which he was now passing, but Selim did not know it; he only wondered whence came' the myriads of frogs which stared and croaked at him from every pool. He little thought that among these frogs - in this same miry field, through which it was so hard for him to make his way - was his beautiful princess, for whose sake he had entered into this dreary land, and whom he hoped at last to restore to her former self. He knew nothing of all this --his only thought just now was to follow the guidance of the magic rose. Still less did he dream that the Princess Welcome not only saw him, but knew  him, and that she would gladly, had it been in her power, have told him how she appreciated the efforts he was making for her rescue, and how truly she hoped for his success. Ever since the sparrow had told her that she :     0   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    175 might hope for the coming of the true prince, Welcome had tried to bear her situation pa- tiently. How she was to know the true prince she could not imagine; only when she saw Selim slowly making his way across the frog- field, it struck her that never before had she seen mortal man cross that dreary spot, and Wsuddenly the hope sprang up in her heart that he might possibly have come to destroy the giant, and release her from the enchantment which kept her in the hateful frog-skin. Had Selim known all this, he would have gone on even more hopefully and bravely than he did. As it was, he saw, thankfully, that the winged things, the ugly dwarfs, the giant shapes, and the threatening flames, all were left behind, and none came near him; only the mud clung to his feet, and seemed deepest in his path, as though it was trying to prevent his crossing the field; the frogs kept up such a croaking that he was nearly deafened. Yet these were trifling annoyances, and Selim went on and on, till at last he had crossed the field, and stood near the huge rocky castle in which he was to: seek the giant.   I76  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS, Shapeless as it'had at first appeared, it looked still more shapeless on a nearer and closer view. So huge was it that Selim could readily understand how it only could be raised by en- chantment, or -lived in by giants. Every mo- ment its form changed; strange and hideous shapes clung to its walls; entrance there seemed none; and Selim walked slowly round and round it, puzzling his brain with wondering if the princess was to be found within its walls, and how he ever was to gain admission. But look as carefully as he would, he could find neither door nor gate by which to enter the shapeless, rocky castle. Perfect silence prevailed, in strange contrast with the noises which till now had attended his passage through the Dark Country. He called, but in vain--no answer came; and he was about to repeat the call, when a low laugh at his side attracted his attention, and looking down, he saw the King of the Forest Dwarfs standing near him, with the little brown sparrow perched upon his shoulder. "You don't seem to be doing much," the dwarf remarked. "Why don't you call louder?"   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    1" "I am doing all I can," said Selim. "But no doubt you can help me to do much more." "I have no doubt that I can," said the dwarf. "And as I promised to help you, suppose that I give you something that will make a noise." He took out of his Ipocket a tiny golden horn, which he handed to Selim. The prince looked at it for a moment. "It is very small." "Small things can do a great deal," the dwarf interrupted. "Blow the horn, Selim, and you may see something that will frighten you." Thus ordered, Selim raised the horn to his lips, and blew. Such a blast as came! It swelled louder and louder, and echoed and re-- echoed from the rocky walls of the castle, till Selim was fairly amazed at the noise he himself had made. He blew three times, as the dwarf- king bade him, and at the third blast there came in answer a low growl, as of distant thun- der, and the next moment the giant Tintinabulo and the great enchanter Feliscat appeared to- gether on the walls of the castle., M   178 THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. "Who are you, and how dare you enter my dominions?" asked the enchanter. !-     "Answer him boldly," said the dwarf, and Selim spoke: "I am Selim, Prince of the Summer-Land, and I have come in search of the Princess Welcome, whom you have stolen from her parents." "You don't seem to know that I have it in my power to destroy you, or to seal him up in a dungeon who dares to come after my son's wife?" said the enchanter. "I know that I have come to destroy your power, and to kill your son," Selim retorted. "And I destroy you!" said the enchanter. "Become instantly a stone, and let no power restore you to your former self!" - He muttered some awful words to himself, :but no change came over the prince. Selim held up the magic rose. "You have no power over me, evil being," he said, "while I hold this flower. And by its power - the power of the magic rose - I order you to give up to me the Princess Welcome."   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I7C The enchanter turned pale, for he saw that he could do but little against the prince who held the magic rose, and on whom his powerful spell had no effect. His only chance was to secure the prince; so he changed his tone. "I see that you are indeed the true prince," he said. "Of course the princess is yours: you have only to enter the castle and take her." Immediately a door flew open in front of Selim, and the enchanter appeared at it, inviting the prince to enter. But the dwarf pulled Selim back. "He is deceiving you. If you enter the castle, you are lost. He is only trying to get you into his hands, and then he will change you into a stone." "I prefer remaining where I am," Selim re- plied to the enchanter's invitation. "It will be as easy for you to bring the princess to me as for me to go for her. For you know where she is, and I don't." At that moment the open door slammed to, with a noise like thunder, and then the castle shook and trembled, and then it bore no shape   I80  THE ENCHANTED- PRINCESS. save that of a heap of huge rocks thrown care- lessly together, and it was hard to realize that it had ever, even'in the slightest degree, resem- bled a castle. "It is our turn now to assist you," the dwarf said to Selim. "Only by stratagem can we now succeed, and the enchanter will do his best to retain the princess and to save his son." "I cannot thank you enough," Selim began. The dwarf interrupted him: "You owe us no thanks: in helping you we are helping ourselves, for we have no worse enemies than the giants; and we promised the fairies that we would aid the first prince who should pass through our country without dis- turbing us or anything in it. We are willing to help those who will help themselves; and as you have sought boldly, it is but fair that you should. find at last. But to do this it is necessary to get the giant out of the castle, and in order to do that, I must go into it." "But how?"Selim asked; "for I see no door, and there is, apparently, no way of entering." "Wait, and you will see," was the dwarf's X '   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I8Il reply. , And as he spoke, a little, bright-eyed mouse crept to their feet from a crevice in the rock, and to Selim's great astonishment she could speak. "I can show you the way," she said to the dwarf. "All that is necessary will be for you to follow me, and I think we can bring the giant out of the castle." "Am I to follow, too?"Selim asked. "No," the mouse replied. ' Your part will come in time; just now you need only wait. My sister," to the sparrow, " my friend," to the dwarf, "you must follow me." As the mouse spoke, she crept back into the same crevice from which she had come. The sparrow flew down from the dwarf- king's shoulder, and boldly followed the mouse. The dwarf bade Selim be patient and wait where he was until they came back; and then, mut- tering certain words to himself, which Selim did not understand, he, to the prince's great surprise, grew suddenly as small as the mouse, and the next moment he, too, had crept info the crevice, and Selim was alone. i6   CHAPTER XVII. HOW THE FROGS CAME OUT OF THE CASTLE. 'T HE great enchanter Feliscat knew, as soon as he saw how Selim was protected by the magic rose, that the time was come when his power over the Princess Welcome must end. Yet he resolved to try, so far as he could, and prevent her being carried away from him. But to do this, he must have assistance; and as he knew  that by his own efforts Selim never could enter the enchanted castle, and that he never would think of looking for the princess in the frog-field, he called the old fairy Male- vola to him, and the two together began to con- sult upon the subject in the enchanter's own private den, in the very heart of the castle. Before going to this den, however, the en- chanter warned his son, that on no account - whatever should he allow any one to enter the 182   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I83 castle, and for no reason should he leave it, even for one moment. As Tintinabulo was always very well satisfied to lie down and take things easily, he agreed to do exactly as his father desired, and made up his mind that while he was alone he would take a good long nap. The enchanter had waited until he saw that his giant son was fairly fast asleep before he went to consult with the old fairy Malevola. As he knew that Tintinabulo could not possibly do any mischief while he was asleep, and also that his nap once begun would probably last for a long time, the enchanter felt very comfortable about his son. He only wished that he could feel as comfortable about the strange prince who had come, by virtue of the magic rose, into his dominions. Still, as he had disposed of others before him, he did not at all despair of getting rid of this intruder. And he had no wish to see his son killed. Tintinabulo slept for some time. It was a matter of no importance to him whether the Princess Welcome remained in the Dark Coun- try or not, except that it was rather pleasant   I84  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. for him to think how very uncomfortable she must be in the frog-skin. If his father, who had brought the princess to her present situation, had seen fit to restore her to her proper shape and to her own home, Tintinabulo would not have cared, but he would have objected most seriously to any one else breaking the enchant- ment, as then he would have lost his head, and it is always more agreeable to have one's head in its proper place than to be deprived of it. He did not disturb himself about this, how- ever, for he was very well able, he thought, to take care of those precious golden teeth of his, on whose preservation his safety depended; and he knew that no one could cut off his head unless they could first obtain possession of his teeth. That could not possibly be done with- out his knowledge; and so Tintinabulo felt very comfortable about himself. So long as he could eat as much and sleep as long as he liked, he cared little how many princesses were enchanted, or how many princes were turned to stone, or how many people like Selim chose to enter into his father's kingdom. It   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I85 did not matter to him what might become of them. So that, although the giant knew that Selim was waiting for him outside of the castle, it did not give him one moment's uneasiness. In fact, he felt very safe. He knew the Forest Dwarfs could not enter the castle, and he had his dog with him, so that there was nothing to prevent his taking as long a nap as he chose. The only thing -that worried him just now was the thought that for some time past he had had no frogs to eat. The bright-eyed little mouse had effectually frightened him out of the frog- field. He slept for some time, but not half as long as he intended; for he- was awakened by some- thing very cold and clammy touching his hand, -and he opened his eyes in no very good humor. He would have been very angry if he had not immediately seen what it was that had roused H him. It was a sight he never had seen before in the palace, and it was with the utmost de- light that he saw three immense, fat, green frogs slowly hopping across the room, and knew im- I6 *   :I86 THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    '- mediately,that one of them must have touched his hand. ,) It was so long since Tintinabulo had eaten a frog that, without a moment's hesitation, he started to his feet in pursuit of the three frogs. He was in such a hurry to go after them that he never noticed that his dog did not follow him, but that it had, like its master, gone to sleep. But the giant was too anxious to catch the frogs, to care whether the dog followed him or not, and so he left the animal to his slumbers. The frogs were so fat that they seemed to have some difficulty in moving, and Tintinabulo expected to catch them imme- diately. It would be a pity to let such dainty morsels escape, when they could be secured with so little difficulty. But, slowly as the frogs went, they always managed to keep just out of the giant's reach; and the farther they went, the fatter they grew, so that Tintinabulo became more and more eager, every minute, to catch them. Every minute he thought he need only stoop down and pick them up; yet on and on the fat frogs   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I87 went, and Tintinabulo followed them. He wondered how they had got into the castle; he did not wonder why they tried to get away from him. He would not have liked to be eaten up himself. Meantime Selim began to think that his friends must have forgotten him. He grew very tired of waiting for them, and thought that they had done well in advising him to be patient. He wished he could have gone with them, to help them in whatever they might be doing; for anything would be better than this solitary waiting. He walked up and down; he stared at the rocky heap which had been the castle; but his friends did not return; and at last he grew so tired of the solitude and the stillness, that he would have gone in search of them if he had not been afraid of missing them when they did come back, in case he left the place where they had bidden him remain. It was, therefore, with a feeling of relief that after a while Selim heard the familiar chirp of the sparrow near him. He knew, then, that his friends were not far off, though as yet he   I'88 THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.  saw no signs of them. But he kept his eyes on the crevice through which they had disappeared, expecting every moment to see them return. It was, therefore, a cause of great astonishment to him when he saw three huge frogs hop out of the crevice. The largest of the frogs winked at him as it hopped past, and Selim knew in a minute that his friends had returned to him under a new shape. He had barely time to think of this before a new cause of astonishment presented itself. The crevice through which the frogs had just come suddenly grew broader and larger, and then changed into the door which had opened before Selim. With the same noise, as of-thun- der, it flew open again, and out came the ugliest giant imaginable. Although Selim had seen Tintinabulo once before, when he showed himself upon the walls of the castle, he did not realize, until now that he was near him, what a horrible giant -the creature was. Selim thought he had never seen anything as frightful as the golden teeth -or as ugly as the giant was. He pitied his   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I89 beautiful princess more than ever before, and although he could not imagine how he ever was to kill the monster, since he had seen him he was more willing to undertake it, because for the first time he could fully understand in what a dreadful situation the princess would be if the enchanter succeeded in forcing her to marry his horrible son. But he did not have much time to think of this, for the giant, without taking the slightest notice of the prince, followed the frogs, which hopped on and on before him. A voice whis- pered in Selim's ear: "Follow where they lead you on; Follow till the task be done." And the prince obeyed the words. On, and on, and on went the frogs, and the giant followed them. Close to them Selim kept, wishing that he could do something; but every time that he attempted to quicken his pace, the same voice would say, "Not yet; your time has not come," and he would obey. On, and on, and on-past the frog-field, losing sight of the great heap of rocks, on they went,   Igo  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. till the frogs had led the giant out of the Dark Country, and they had come to the level space which separated and lay between the forest of the dwarfs and the Dark Country. Till now, Tintinabulo had followed the frogs with no thought except that he would soon be able to catch them, and he had not looked to see where the chase was leading him. But now the frogs stopped, and as the giant, think- ing they were at last within his reach, stooped to pick them up, they suddenly disappeared, and in their place stood the dwarf, the sparrow, and the mouse. Such a scream as the giant gave! for he saw that he was in the power of his enemies, and knew now why it was that his father had com- manded him to remain in the castle. He did not know  what to do; before him was the mouse, behind him Selim held the magic rose. The light' nearly blinded him, accustomed as he was to the murky atmosphere of the Dark Country; but he was not to be overcome so easily; he turned upon Selim, hoping to be able to crush him at once.      ,   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I9I It had all happened so suddenly that Selim, in his surprise, did not think of getting out of the way. Nearer and nearer the giant came, and Selim stood still, in a sort of fascination - he could not move -he even forgot the magic rose, which could have protected him. But just at this moment the white owl flew noiselessly by, on her soft, feathery wings, and as she passed the prince, she whispered: "I help those who help themselves. I promised my assistance, and you must do as I :ell you. Hold up the magic rose." Even yet Selim scarcely knew what he was doing. Almost unconsciously he obeyed, and leld up the magic rose before the advancing Yiant. At the sight of the magic flower, Tin- :inabulo stopped, for he could, not come near t, and as he stood still, the white owl, flying loiselessly above his head, paused there for a noment, and then the giant began to yawn, ind the next thing Selim knew was that Tin- :inabulo, the mighty giant, lay fast asleep at his eet. The white owl had kept her word; she lad brought the sleep-juice she had promised,   192  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. and dropped it just at the right moment into the giant's eyes. , "I congratulate you, my prince," the dwarf- king said, stepping close to Selim. "You have only to kill the giant,--that is your part of the work." Selim drew, his sword, but the dwarf held him back. "You have forgotten the golden teeth," he said s  "True enough," Selim replied, ." You have already done much for me; give me another reason to thank you by completing the work so well begun." Once more the dwarf blew his whistle, and  once more the little people appeared, in even greater numbers than at first. "Speak to them and they will obey you," the dwarf-king said to Selim. And words came into Selim's mind, and as if prompted by some one else, he said, pointing to Tintinabulo, who lay snoring, with-his mouth wide open: "People of the forest, take that which is your own, by the powerof the magic rose, and leave the rest to me."   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    193 The dwarfs consulted together, and then some of them placed themselves around the head of the motionless giant. Then the oldest of them spoke: "Will it please the prince to wave the magic rose three times?" And three times Selim waved the flower, and each time that he moved it, one-third of the giant's golden teeth sprang from their sockets and fell on the ground at Selim's feet, until the thirty-two shining pieces of pure gold were piled, a gleaming heap, upon the ground. Through it all the giant lay motionless, and then the dwarf-king spoke: "Told the magic rose over him." And Selim extended his hand so that the rose he held might be directly over the giant. And as he held it, the monstrous creature gradually lost shape and form; by slow de- grees, flesh and blood hardened and changed, and under their very eyes what was once a formidable giant was converted into a shape- less stone. "Do not stir," said the dwarf-king, as the 17      N   I94  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. astonished prince would have started back. "Your task is not yet complete, - finish it." And as Selim again extended his hand, slowly, slowly the great stone sunk into the earth, which seemed to open to receive it. Slowly, slowly it disappeared from their sight, and then the grassy turf closed over it, and no trace was left of the mighty giant who had lain there, except the heap of gold at Selim's feet. A great shout of exultation went up from the crowd of the dwarfs as the last trace of the giant disappeared. Once more their king spoke to the prince: "Your task is nearly over now. All that you need do is to find the princess." "But how?" Selim  asked. "You have helped me thus far, guide me to her." "Not so," the dwarf said. "Others will lead you now, for here our power to aid you ends. You owe us no thanks, for you have rid us of a formidable enemy, and in helping you we have helped ourselves.' "At least you will keep this gold," Selim said, as he earnestly thanked the dwarfs. "It is '.              THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.   I95 yours, not mine; and all I ask now is to be able to find the Princess Welcome." "You will find her in the Dark Country," the king said to him. "Farewell, brave Selim; your task has been nobly performed." As he spoke, he again blew his tiny whistle, and at its sound the heap of gold, the- dwarfs, and their king suddenly disappeared, and Selim was alone.   CHAPTER XVIII. HOW IT ENDED. TH TE thought he was alone; but he had companions of whose presence he was totally unconscious. He did not know that the sparrow, the mouse, and a robin were with him; he did know that the dwarf-king had told him that the Princess Welcome was to be found in the Dark Country; and without a moment's hesitation, he began to retrace his steps thither. As soon as he started he noticed that directly in front of him the sparrow and the mouse went, as though to lead the way. He remembered the dwarf's words, "Others will lead you now," arid followed them fearlessly. This time the way seemed shorter than be- fore, and in a very few minutes they had reached the Dark Country. But Selim thought it should scarcely be called dark now, for so much x96   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    197 brighter was it that he hardly needed the light from the magic rose to shine upon his path, and it seemed to him that the dark, murky atmosphere was slowly changing to something like that of other and happier regions. None of the strange shapes and threatening voices which had before harassed him were now -to be seen or heard; all the noisome creatures were gone; here and there faint traces of verdure were taking the place of the mire and mud, and everything seemed gradually changing for the better. Little did Selim care for all this. His only thought, his only desire was to be able to find and rescue the princess. He cared for nothing beyond that. On and on he went, following his two silent guides, till he came to the field on whose op- posite side stood the enchanter's castle. Here the sparrow paused. "Here you will find the princess," she said to Selim. "Go to the middle of the field and bid her, by the power of the magic rose, come to you." 17*   I98  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. At the middle of the field the sparrow stopped him. And Selim, raising on high the magic rose, cried: "By the power lying in the magic rose, I break the enchantment holding the Princess Welcome!" As he spoke, with a noise like thunder, the enchanter's castle fell into ruins, and bright sunlight broke suddenly upon them. And just at Selim's feet sat a green frog, crowned with a golden crown, and looking imploringly up into the prince's face. "Touch her with the rose, and fear not," said the mouse to im. Stooping down, tremblingly, Selim gently touched with the magic rose the frog at his feet. And as the magic flower touched her, the cruel frog-skin fell off and disappeared, and there, humbly kneeling, was the Princess Wel- come, restored to her own shape, and more beautiful than ever before, thanking the happy Selim for releasing her from the enchantment. The happy Selim! Yes, Selim was happy that at last his wish was granted, and his beau-   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    I99 tiful princess restored to her own true self again. And Welcome was scarcely less happy that Selivn was her deliverer. The bright-eyed mouse watched them for a few moments. Then she said: "Complete your work, brave prince. Re- store to their true forms all those who by the enchanter have lost their shape, by touching with the magic rose every stone in the field." Holding Welcome's hand, Selim went round the field, touching each stone as he passed it with the rose he held. And as the magic flower touched each stone, a prince sprang to his feet, freed through its power from the en- chantment which held him, till all were restored to their true form, and none were left in the shape of stones. When this was done, and when the princes had thanked Selim for their rescue, the two fairies, Musimousa and Rosaleava, throwing off the shapes of the mouse and the- sparrow, in which they had hitherto been concealed, ap- peared as their true selves. They first sent Mrs. Robin to tell the king and queen that the   200  THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS. prince had been successful, and, then, waving their wands, the whole party was immediately transported to the Silver Islands. There Selim and Welcome found not only Queen Amoretta and her husband, but also the king and queen of the Summer-Land, whose dominions had, by the power of the two good fairies, been brought close to the Silver Islands. It would be impossible to describe the joy and happiness of all parties. The marriage of Prince Selim- and Princess Welcome was cele- brated with the utmost splendor, and not till after the rejoicings, which lasted six months, did the rescued princes return-to their homes. The prince and princess lived happily ever after. For the old fairy Malevola and the great enchanter Feliscat had been imprisoned under the ruins of the latter's castle, so that they could not escape again, and could do no more harm. And the magic rose had been re- stored to its place in the wreath which'crowned the fairy Rosaleava. And the beautiful, walnut couch, with the return of the princess, had returned to its orig-   THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.    201 inal shape. And Peter, the tall footman, had built a house, and was able at last to keep his wife. And Little Boy Blue was Little Boy Blue no longer, but Duke of Lapiz-Lazuli, chief lord in waiting to the prince. And never again in all the dominions of King Selim - for he came in time to be king -was there another princess so-beautiful, and who could be called THE ENCHANTED PRINCESS.     
         
       
   
