
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). Pathaway, or, The Mountain Outlaws .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7619
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Pathaway, or, The mountain outlaws 
            
               PA

T HA WA Y;

ae EaUtnain 4htiut .

A TALE OF THE NORTHERN HUNTINGOQURS
BY DR.J 3. H. ROBINSON.

NEW TORK:
R E D EREI-O       A. ,    E rDT
NO. 24 ANN STREET.


I '
I
+.

ENTBURD according to Act of Congress, in the year 1859,
BY CAULDWELL, SOUTHWORTH &amp; WHITNEY,
Sthe  erk's Offoe of the District Court for the Southern District of New York.

Io
*9

R                        f            (1

PATHAWAY;
OE,
T HE MOUNTAIN OUTJLAWS.

CHAPTER I.
TUE SILENT TRAGEDY.
It was quite dark when the hunter reached
the spot where he had set his traps the day
before. It was one of those singular places'
that are found in the mountain-ranges only,
shut out from the usual haunts of men by im-
passable barriers, and towering ramparts of
earth and rock. But to the Northern trapper,
all places are accessible. His practiced' eyes
find the thread-like passes, and his experienced
hand unlocks the secret gates ohe mountains.
His feet are familiar with hidden paths ; and
the moss upon the tret s, as well as the-stars in
the sky, direct his seeps.'
The hunter reached the inter-mountain soli-
tude, to which we have referred, by a cul-de-
sac, which he had believed was known only to
himself ; but, having recently lost several
traps, which he had set upon a deep, narrow
stream that watered the basin, and found its
way out to a more open country, by some in-
explicable winding way, his opinion in regard
to the immunity of the spot from other human
visitors lhad changed. He was not disposed
to bear his losses without an effort to solve the
mystery. He approached the margin of the
dark stream not without a feeling of curiosity,
which was soon changed to surprise, by the
discovery that his traps were again missing.
Having well assured himself of this fact, he
searched, as thoroughly as the darkness would
permit, for some clue to the authors of this
mischief, bu was unable to obtain the faintest'
evidence that the spot had been visited by a
white or red man.               _
The trapper mused awhile, and then con-
cealed himself in the rank grass and weeds
near the water, which, at that point, seemed to
flow out of the mountains, from beneath an

arching roof of solid rock. The hunter,
stretched at his length upon the soft verdure,
listened to the murmur of the stream a long
time, undisturbed, wondering where it came
from, and hdw it forced its way through the
flinty fastnesses of the ranges. The night grew
darker. The blackness seemed to be rolled
and compressed into the basin, till it resem.
bled that Egyptian darkness that could be
felt.
Presently a light flashed across the ravine.
Startled at. the phenomenon, the trapper
looked vainly for its cause, and had made up
his mind that it was a flash of lightning ; when,
upon the summit of a cliff, directly opposite,
he discovered the solution of the mystery.
Two persons stood there, holding brilliant
torches over their heads, and endeavoring, by
their light, to obtain a view of the stream be.
low._ These men were clad something like
Mexican banditti.. They wore the deer-skin
hunting-shirts of the northwestern tr tie.
with plain leggings and mocca ins. Th, ,ger
of the two wore a red sash around his  ist
with flowing,jaunty ends  Beneath this were4
thrust a brace of cavalry pistols, dagger .i
a handsome sheath, a hinting-knife with-A siP
ver handle, and an ivory call of large size.
He carried in his hand a double-barrel carbine.
He was of medium height, thick-set, and the
corporate members compactly knitted to-
gether. His head was covered by a skin cap.
His features, as they appeared to the trapper
by the light of the torch,.were strongly marked,
coarse, and hard.
His companion was of lighter mace, but
dressed much in the same style, with the ex-
ception that he wore a black leathern belt in
stead of sash.
The two remained there but a few moments,
and disappeared as mysteriously as they ease.
This cireumstance perplexedlthe trapper. It

1'

;             ;
.:  -                                  ,
yj,            ,
rr, A41
w

r -

a
'     1 1       i     d


4

PATITAWAY; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

a peared to hin that something out of the or-
dinary course of events was about to happen.
The faces he had seen troubled him. He beat
a tattoo upon his forehead with his fingers,
formed numberless conjectures, and grew more
confident that the last was the furthest from
the truth-a significant hint that those which
might follow would be still less satisfactory.
WIdle he ias thus cogitating, the torches ap-
pearl$ i s another direction, slowly descending
a steep and difficult pass on the same side,
but lower down the stream. Their progress
was manifestly difficult and dangerous. For
some ten minutes he  watched the light moving-
eccentrically to and fro, sometimes totally dis-
appearing, then flashing out clearer and nearer.
Anon, they were near enough for the trapper
to see that they were followed by four others,
bearing a burden which looked like a human
figure wrapped in a cloak. He instinctively
drew himself further beneath the rocky arch
that spanned the stream, The strange noc-
turnal visitors reached the bottom of the ra-
vine, an4l the man with the sash led the way
to the margin of the water, when the four
men, in obedience to a slight gesture from him,
pled their burden upon the ground, and fell
bask into a group by themselves.
41he trapper began to leel an indefinable in-
r -t st in the motionless object they had thus
dpesited. What was it? A human being?
,"dead or living? These questions were
imtnedijtely answered. A young and feminine
re',prang up, casting aside the closk, that
had enveloped her. The glare of the torches
lighted up the rocky basin. and gave the hun-
ter a full view ,of her person. Her face was
pale as winter snow, and lovely beyond expres-
sion. The forester had .never seen beauty of
so:iigh an'order. It seemed to his rough and
honest nature, that an'angelic creature had
* suddenly descended from the sky to thrill and
awe him, for a moment, with her supernal
eia. Her hats, long, dark, and shining,
l   ye wavy threads of jet inthe torchlight, hung
iveled overter gracefulneek and rounded
shoulders. The symmetry of her person was
4    ns'vloua. She gazed about her wildly, then
a Jierselfuspon her knees at the feet of the
si the sash. She threw up her arms, so
e and beautiful; they waved to and fro--
,,  t*eat the air in an agony of supplication,
rapper heard her cry : "Save me-save
* The words struck him like the thrusts of a
'dagger. He was tempted to rush forth and
die in defence of sueh .transcendent .bpauty.
But they were six, he but one; he would wait.
Vrovidence would, perhaps, give him the priv-
i Ege of doing something for that helpless and
despiring woihan. He had heard some one
or he had read it, that Heaven's time was
,tv#  i*hoir of man'shopelessness. The trapper
to bea .;religionist-after the
iane    fashionable Christiani-

ty, but he had the true instincts of the child
of Nature, who, all unknown to the world,
spontaneously worships in spirit and in truth.
Honest men do not entirely forget.God in the
wilderness, for he has placed so many memen-
toes of His presence around them that it is im-
possible to forget them.
The trapper's sympathies were terribly
awoke. The fair supplant took a chain from
her neck, drew the rings from her fingers, and
threw them at the man's feet. He gathered
them up in silence, and dropped them into the
pouch at his side. She continued her entreat-
ies; she attempted 'to take his hand, but he
pushed her from him. Tired, apparently, of
this scene, he looked significantly at the four
ruffians in the background. They came for-
ward, and laid their rough hands upon her.
The trapper deemed such touch sacrilege, and
it required all his self-discipline to prevent hini
from sending a bullet through the head of the
author of this.outrage. She ceased to strug-
gle, and, abandoning all earthly hope, appeared
to be addressing her prayers to Heaven. They
bound her white arms behind her; the rigor
of the cords wounded her delicate wrists till
they were stained with little drops of blood.
She' was then muffled in the large cloak, in
which was placed.a stone of considerable size,
and both made fast to her person.
The beautiful victim of these persecutions
had alrea   wooned, and was insensible to all
these prep nations. She was as motionless .as
a corpse, and as passive. The four mute men
lifted the unresisting form, while the other
two held their torches over the stream. While
this was taking place, the trapper threw off his
hunting-shirt, and divested himself of his arms
except his hunting-knife. His heart was beat-
ing madly ; the blood went racing tumultuous-
ly through his veins, while his swarthy brow
was streaming with perspiration. He resolved
to hazard all for the woman. Of her history,
of the events that led to this tragedy, he knew
nothing ; but in his soul he believed her inno-
cent of all crime, and undeserving the fate to
which she was too manifestly domed. Her
sex, her helplessness, her wondrous 'beauty,
appealed to him, and touched his heart as it
had never been touched before.
The men carried her to the very margin of
the stream, swung the motionless body to and
fro for a moment, and east it from them ; it,
fell into the dark water-it sank-it disap-'
peared from view. Afew bubbles marked the
spot where it went dwu. The man with. the
sash gazed a few seconds at the disturbed sur-
face, then, waving his torch, turned from the
place, and, followed by his accomplices, as-
eended, hurriedly, the rocks.- All this was,
performed in silence; not a -word had been
uttered by the grim leader or his men. It
passed before the eyes of the trapper like a
horrible dream;: but,,shaking off the chilling
impression it had produced, he lowered him- 5

I

PATHAWAY; OR, THE
self quietly and quickly into the stream, with
his hunting-knife between his teeth, and diving,
sawm to the spot where the muffled form had
gone down.
He soon reached it, and with his knife dis-
engaged the woman from the stone ; then,
grasping her with his left hand, struck out
bravely with his right, still keeping beneath
the surface. He was a hardy swimmer, but
by this time he began to experience a terrible
pressure about the chest. The waters hissed
and roared in his ears, and the demand for air
was imperative and painful. He arose near
the bank with his unconscious burden. He
gasped, he breathed, he was strong again.' He
sprang from the water and drew her after him.
He had scarcely done this, when he heard
quick footsteps on'the rocks, and* saw the
gleam of a torch again. He threw himself
down in the grass beside the immobile object
of his solicitude. The assassin was returning
to take a parting look at the'stream, to see if
his unhallowed work had been effectually per-
formed. He lingered but a short time, and
turned on his heel, the trapper thought, with
an involuntary shudder. He was out of sight
in a moment.
The hunter tore the cloak from the woman,
and bore her to a; drier and more sheltered
spot. He chafed her temple, he rubbed her
hands, and employed various other arts to
bring her to consciousness. At first, a slight
tremor of the body,-then a sigh, assured him
that his efforts were not in vain. A thrill of
blushing life soon animated her peerless pro-
portions. The beautiful eyes -opened, the pale
lips moved, and a gleam of intelligence illum-
inated the face. Evidently that portion of
time that had elapsed since she had been
thrown into the water and taken from it, was
entirely lost to her apprehension. The hor-
ror inspired by the miscreants was still upon
her and paramount. Again she stretched out
those white arms for mercy, and uplifted
those soft andpleading eyes. The movement
deeply affected the trapper.
" You're safe, little woman-you're safe 4"
he exclaimed, earnestly. "The wretches have.
gone, and you're with a ,man who is ready to
diefor'you! No more need of askin' for mer-
cy, gal; no more claspin' of them white
hands in despair, no more turnin' of that pale
face to heaven!"
The girl looked vaguely and incredulously
*          at the hunter ; her mind was disordered ; and.
she could not quite comprehend what had
transpired, and her situation. The one idea
of deadly peril still absorbed and bewildered
her.
" Look at dne, gal ! Recollect yourself.
There's a friend near ye, who'll never desart
you in the hour o'-diffikilty. See ! the mon-
sters are not here ! You have escaped their
cruelty-you are free and safe! Heaven be
*           praised, who would not allow ouch a deed of

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                       5
darkness! I've alleys believed in Providence,
and I believe it more nor ever to-night!"
The soothing tones and enest- words of
the trapper acted like magic upon the girL.
She began to understand ; she saw a kindly
sympathizing face bending over her, and the
man, raising her tenderly, she pillowed her
face upon his shoulder and wept.lAe a; child.
Thetrapper laid his large hand pretecting-
ly upon her pretty head, and passed 4hs fin-
gers carelessly through her wet tresss, There
was magnetism-there was enchantment in the
movement; the girl was reassured--she felt,
sheknew, that she was indeed safe, andseizing
the sun-browned hand, kissed it and dropped
tears upon it.
CHAPTER UI.
THE CAPTIVE TRAPPEB.
It was the vernal season in the mountains.
The trees were in foliage ; the stretching prai.
ries were carpeted with green; and-the winter
snows had melted from   the peaks of the
ranges.
The trapper stood on a shelving rock, look.
ing down into a deep valley below. In height,
he was over six feet---rather slim---straight as
an arrow-his muscles hard and seasoned with
exercise., He wore the garb of the Northern
adventurer and hunter. His face was pleasant
and genial, though it had a few legible care.
lines- upon it. Nature had gifted him, with
one of those comical mouths which it is im-
possible to reduce to melancholy, but which
will persist, in the most trying emergencies, in
looking hopeful and brave.   His. deep-set
eyes harmonized wonderfully with his mouth,
having the same cheerful prestige. His -
rested easily and gracefully across his left-s
His tall and motionless figure, atandin  ;'r-
lief against the rocks, would have 'fktie
pleasmg picture for the painter, whose as'diti
eye, overlooking common-places, seek  the-
picturesque and the bold as subject.  in
spiration.
The man--whoever he was, or whate   is
history-had evidently met Life's voiitdge.
with a manly front, and learned :to-dure,
with a philosophical patience, misfortune'that
could not be averted. He was a nomad; his
- wandering nature was palpably written-upon
him. He carriedwith him, in son e inexpli-
cable way, the air of one who  annot remain
at rest. Give him mountains;',prairies, for-
ests, and rivers, and keeg hii from cities and
the haunts of civilized n.en,and he is at home,
thouzhy his mighty campingground    rean
hundred .jles apart.
A dildtoand crept up the ascent to 'he
trapper's ears; ii as dike unshod hoofs  oa
the rocks. His ulanic  tinctat

g

i


PATHAWAY ; OR,,THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS     7

eameaetive., He descended the jagged side of
the mountain, until he could command a wider
view of the valley; then, posting himself be.
hind a tree, watched for the ""use o the noise
he had heard, which was soon apparent. Five
horsemen appeared, and approached the spot
where he was concealed. Your of the parties
were natives of the country ; but the fifth was
a whiteman, and a captive. As they came
near, and drew opposite the trapper's point of
observation, he was able to arrive at several
conclusions in regard to the prisoner. He
was a man considerably matured in life, and
belonged!'obviously, to that rough and roving
cles known as free trappers, who 'fraternize
alike with the white and red races. It was
plain that he had not been taken without a
struggle - marks -of which were palpable
enough upon his torn and soiled hunting-
shirt, not to mention a wound upon his face.
He was minus the skin cap usually worn by
people of his type-having lost it, doubtless,
in the conflict that attended his capture. His
long, unkempt hair hung in matted masses
over his face, giving it a dogged and morose
expression-heightened, questionless, by the
state of mind he was in. His hands were
lashed at his back, with a rigor that gave him
a foretaste of the tortures in reserve for him
when his captors should reach their camp or
village. He was secured to his horse, to make
assurance doubly sure, by stout thongs of buf-
falo skin tied to his ankles, and passing under
his horse's flanks.
It was easy to'perceive that this wanderer
of the wilderness was ill pleased with this ar-
rangement; and the sullen manner in which
be bore his reverses, indicated that patience
was not among his prominent virtues., Two
of his triumphant conquerors rode before, two
behind him. The most important personage
ofthe party kept a little in advance, and was
elearly:a warrior of distinction. His "face and
naked limbs were painted to the highest-point
of lIdian fashion.  His- neck, chest and
cheeks were bedeviled finely with alternate
streaks of black, red, and white. His head
was decorated with seven eagle feathers which
told t he was of very high caste, indeed-'
paei"Cherrepresenting a scalp that he had
t *em0  in this particular, he enjoyed an envi-
ableatm 'eriority over his three companions-
nosWhomn could sport more than four of
these tell* ale badges, while one; of them dis-
played but two.
It wWnear sunset. The declining rays of
the golden orb fell brightly upon captors and
captiveapast the spot where the
.  4 i~berty,"imittered the latter, "is a mighty
'''thing, 'secially when the sun eh res,
and  ati' looks pleasant. Now that poor
itterhas lost hf'ni, and got into ,diffik lty.
Them, p'isohA ar-aerits lYltake him to their vil-
1agand:bnse him, asi if he's a condemned

Hottentot, or a heathen like theirselves. -,The
feller isn't 'tractive to look at, and has rather
a hang-dog expression, I allow ; but I don't
like the idee of his ben' rubbed out afore his.
time comes."
A light footfall caused the trapper to change
his position : a boy of thirteen or fourteen had
approached him unheard, and was now near
him. He was a youth to fix the attention of
the observer immediately, and retain it. In
stature he was small, with a personal develop-
ment singularly delicate and graceful. Ibis
complexion was dark -his eyes large and
dreamy-his feature wondrously regular and
fair. It was evident that ie was of mixed
blood; but the somewhat dusky hue of his
cheeks did not seem to impair his beauty.
His hair was long, black, and curling. He
wore a light, jaunty cap, which partially con-
cealed his forehead.  His neck was small,-
round, and delicately set upon' the shoulders,
which were feminine in their contour. His
frock, which was of the finest and softest
dressed doeskin, -was ornamented with fringes
of Indian needle-work. The sleeve, where it
fell over the wrist, was wrought with bright
colors in quills; while the hand below it ap-
peared, by its smallness and delicacy, to he
unacquainted with toil: those members had
never been hardened with labor. His leggings
and moccasins were of the same material as
his frock, and of the same elaborate make.
To look at, he was indeed a handsome youth.
The only fault that could be found with him
was, that he was too effeminate to fill one's
idea of developing nianliness ; yet this defect
did not inspire a feeling of contempt, but
rather of admiration; for there was a spirit in
the boy's eyes, and an expression about his
mouth, that checked the rising impulse of
scorn or pity. .Iis figure was erect-his step
elastic. There was a smile ;on his lips when
the trapper turned toward him.
" Ali it is you, Sebastian V"
" It is I, Niohoas. I saw you creep down,
the mountain, and observe something in the
valley, Mountaineer, you have been mutter-
ing to yourself,",replied the youth, in a clear,
sweet voice.   -
" You have sharp eyes, lad. There's little
to be seen-that you don't see. You'd better
heed my. advice, and stick close to camp," an-
swered the trapper.
" It's lonely at camp; besides, I don't like
to lose sight of you, uncle Nicholas," returned
the boy Sebastian.
" Lonely at the camp ! Lonely with Mis-
fortin andSmuggler-a brace of brutes that
are as fond of ye as they be of fresh buffaler-
hump. Bless your soul, ladi what better coin-
panv do you want? Then it's so pleasant to,
set at the camp-door and see Shagbark crop
the tender grass, or give his heels an airiu,
when his sperrits are up."
We must. remark -here, enpassant, that

4

M

No

S

"Misfortin " and " Smuggler " were two hon
est dogs-the steadfast friends and companion
of the trapper-while " Shagbark " was the
name of a favorite horse-an animal tried in
thousand tramps across the prairies.
" They are, no doubt, faithful creatures, bu
not quite equal to the mountaineer Nicholas
to whom I owe such a debt of gratitude-"
"None o' that, little un. I'll make a con
demned diffikilty atween us one o' these days
if you don't stop pratin' about gratitude ' an
sich like. Do you -s'pose a rough feller lik
me ever did more nor his duty? Did yot
ever see an individooal that ever did more not
his duty? Did I ever? Did anybody ever?'
The trapper glanced skyward, sighed, an
capped the climax by adding:
"0 Heaven ! no!"
"Bless your honest old soul! '"exclaimed
the boy, taking one of the trapper's larg(
brown hands in his.
"Humbug !-for you are a humbug, and]
shall call you so as long's you're with me.-
don't take it kind of'ye to.call me old. Do]
look as if there was an ' old soul' in thisbodyl
The Lord love you, nod If 'twas a thousand
year old, there'd never be a wrinkle in it; foi
the Master of life, in givin' me a small intel
lect, balanced the account by a hopeful hear
and cheerful disposition. I never see no-trou-
ble ahead, and don't borrer none to make my.
self miser'ble with ; though some of my family
did nothin' but borrer trouble, and died'thout
payin' it. But see ! the dogs have missed ye ;
Smuggler's settin' on the brow of the plateau,
with his nose in the air, while Misfortin is
slowly ereepin' down the slope. Go back,
Humbug, and I'll jine ye presently."
" But you have not told me what you saw."
"Four redskins, with a captive white man
-a free trapper, I should say. He was nigh
about as dirty as an Ingin himself ; but he'll
be purified, as 'twere, by fire, afore long, I al-
low," replied Nicholas, thoughtfully. " But
go you up with the dogs, and I'll toiler ye ar-
ter I've looked at my traps."
-"Trapa! You are not going to look at
traps, Uncle Nicholas ; you're going to follow
that party of Indians-I see it in your eyes.
You pity the prisoner. But if you should be
killed--if you should be killed, Nicholas--a
sad day it would be to Sebastian Delaunayl!
What a terrible thing it would be to be;left in
the measureless wilderness without a friend!"
" My dear lad,you forgit the dogs," said the
trapper, with a half smile, looking down be-
nignantly upon the youth. "%I'l .glad, for
the sake o' their feeling's, that they didn't hear
ye make that remark. Why, Smuggler would
eat his own tail with vexation ; and Misfortia
would be more onreconciled than ever to bein'
t dog. 'Go up,'I say, lad ; don't be: obstinate.
Vou want to make me cross-grained and ill*
tempered, don't yae?"
"You nrc' brave, Nicholas, and it touches

d          PATIfAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

- your feelings to see a fellow-creature In 4an-
s ger. I know well enough that you are abput
e to expose yourself ; you, will risk your life for
a the captive trapper. Don't shake'your bead ;
-I'm as sure of it as if I saw you on' the trail.
,t I'm goin' with you."
,t   "What for ? To hinder my movements; to
make me too late to be of sarvice ;to git ypur-
- self into diffikilty ? I thank ye, little un; but
, I say, No ! The man who follera a trail must
d go fast ; he must pass like a.shadow from p'int
e to p'int, and as softly as shadows go."
u "I will obey you. But promise me,",added
r the youth, with more earnestness,," that -you
" will be very careful, and not deprive me of my
I only protector."
"I promise ! Rashness and imnprudeses
would be injustice to you. I won't run no
I risks if I cen help it. 'll be wise as a sarpent,
e and dangerous as I can. Call up the dogs,
and don't let 'em foller me."
I    The youth turned reluctantly; away; an45
I calling the dogs, with affected eheerfulness
I slowly ascended toward the plateau; while
Nicholas, after lookingat him a few sco'ds,
I rapidly descended to the valley.
r The sunwas sinking to the verge of the
horizon, and twilight mists were already, purl-
t ing in upon mountain-p sand defile. Having
reached the fresh trai ,he-made a momentary
halt, examined his rifle and equipments, tight-
ened his belt, and resumed his way like a nan,
who has made up his mind. That heae aoe
quainted with that region, was obvious fromn
the manner in which he noted the landmarks.
"'I know\nigh -about where'll, they'll, go," i
said, speaking to himself. "Bein' mounted,
th 'll be obleeged-to foller the windin'sof the
val y; but I'l make shorter wort os't."
r   The mountaineer no longer threaded the in.
tricacies of the valley, but made a straight
course across mountain-spur, meadow, andra-
vine. For two hours he held his way ove A
country rough and rugged, and inaccessible
to inexperiencedfeet. Considerably exhausted,
he reached the goal of his-wishes, ._It was
spot lying between twomountains, waters -by
a small tributary of the southern:bransk 4,
the Sasketehewan. On the eastern side' w sa
narrow pass, half masked by rocks and bushes,
leading to the Sasketchewan prairies, amthe
favorite hunting-grounds of the Blaekfeet.,
Two horsemen could not.ride abreast th
this gate in the mountains. Through  *a itene
tsr-mountain pocket, the trapper licholas
calculated that the braves would bebiged to
pass with their prisoner; on their way to the
villages of their people. Its wgs here, nesr the
water, that he resolved to station limsel an4.
wait the appearance ofthe parties, wh,
come from the South, croes the streawpdt
their horses, make a short halperbaps a  *
leave the spot by the eastern pass.. 4ceI8 .
a plae of=concealment behind ;lare   m

_


$                PATHAWAY ; OR, THE
a    ~     id buer, poised on a rounded point
upEi ab61er beneath it. Hedges of mesquit
sad t'aWEp  dt wormwood grew in the soil
he igbtgrew dark ; it curtained the moun-
tain-ranges sombrely. The dingle seemed like
a fbled temipls; the passes and defiles were
mi6b ils; the craggy cliffs, dim and time-
wi   alts; the arching, starless sky, the
dd~e.
The   tiadt aof the bunter proved wonder.
full correct. The sound of hoofs was pres-
edtyeabd y Nichola--muffled and distant
at    ; rstlMeater And nearer anon. The scenes
and 4asiehts of the wilderness do not affect
the tried nerves of adepts in woodcraft as they
dot e wods, kah and effeminate from the
huntb of wiVilized men, He heard these
sigtbf e   praibhing savages with equable
palse -Under certain circumstances, coolness
is bravery ; it enables one to grasp every ad-
vrssga , 'and turn  t to account.
Te 'waiors -entered the dingle, and ap-°
ptdced'thetream; while'their dusky out-
as      toked like unsubstantial shadows re-
flected faintly dpon the eye. They crossed
theNaera-heevery movement that the trapper
had 'Aoi ed apon, and which brought them
v&amp;   ear his place of concealment. After a
fw wrder of conversation in their own tongue,
thenhfhaAismounted and held their horses
-e   ;!ea while they drank, The animal,
t    66tb   the risonerfrightened by some ob.
jt, ugaly bteked, until he stood to his
*   etbesuit.ssad wild wormwood grow.
i artolI te boulder behind which Nicholas
.   t hidden. The wherior with the seven
p1V  s, WhoWaas the leader of the party, gave
little attention to this circumstance--the es-
eiaft f thewaptive in that direction seeming
w)h01r itntpraoticable, as no one, however dar-
inr* edIdulge his -horse up that rocky and
ne ply   pendicular ascent. To the trapper,
ti,'WSis ':ropitious moment. Providence,
ftli, favored his intentions. The spec-
t tWayes-of the braves remained motionless
b"toheltam. Nicholas emerged partially
frm  ite shelter of the boulder, drew his
aI  Wedged hunting-knife, and prepared to
eitwt hAs1tld ,purpose. But how should
haanattnbe 1i* presence to the prisoner? A
e  ,    elamation, might betray him. He
hlssbd }k'1  a serpent. The captive:turned his
head whgdtly,aid Nicholas availed himself of
tgim rtsoent.
Trapper,"*hb'whispered, "a friend is near.
Be n qiet, '
TEse wow, loras they were, reached the
eas of 'thesprsoner. He raised his headsud-
de   nlya geearottad bim.like a man re-
alitthI' dd liholas,ar'ising from the
naqit natheietsels fdanks. The -captive
pegeiveI thistuistpdcted apparition; but-con-
t d     y emjaotions weh i kt. unheralded ap-

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.
pearance excited. The Northern trapper is
taught to be quick in his instincts by the dan-
gers that continually surround him. Nicholas
cut the thongs that bound him to the horse-
then his knife passed quickly between his
wrists: he was free ! His deliverer silently
placed a brace of pistols in his hands. All
this took place with a rapidity and adroitness
that the clumsy inhabitants of cities cannot
well conceive of. With a-novice, such a feat
would have loomed up a stern impossibility ;
but training and-skill smoothed down the rug.
ged surfaces of seeming impracticabilities.
Nicholas glided behind the boulder, and the
eaptive trapper,,slipping noiselessly from his
horse, followed him. Instantly the war-cry of
the Blackfeet rang through the dingle.
" Now, stranger, for a scramble among the
rocks! Keep close to me, and I'll warrant
we'll give the-red heathen the slip. Fire when
you have a chance, but don't waste your lead."
Nicholas sprang up the rocks like a moun-
tain-goat.
"My lhbs are summat cramped, but you
needn't be afeard but I can use 'em to good
advantage," replied the other, hurriedly.
The Blackfeet were now pursuing them,
whooping and yelling with disappointment ;
but the fugitives had the advantage of the first
start, and, being used to the vicissitudes and
peils of the mountains, felt litt e apprehension
or the result. Several shots were fired after
them.; but they fell short, and spent their
force on. the rocks and bushes. In ten min-
utes, they had gained the top of the ascent ;
and, after breathing a moment, Nicholas led
the way along the more accessible part of the
country.

1

CHAPTER III.

T aE MIMIC     CITY.
Nicholas was curious to see the face of his
companion, but the darkness prevented him
from scanning his features; and it was not till
the moon came up, eni hour la:er, that he was
able to satisfy himself in this respect. A clo-
ser view confirmed his previous impressions :
he was of the wandering, free-trapper type,
tinctured with Indian manners--addicted to
most -of the habits of that race, doubtless-
with free-and-easy notions of life, and a hearty
contempt for those outside of his calling. 'Tlhe
countenance that he presented to Nicholas,
lighted by the first rays of the aseenling
moon, was by no means calculated to invite
friendship and secure confidence. The brow
was low, and contracted into a perpetual
frown. , His eves were sunken, heavy, and
dull in expression ; while the nose was broad
and fiat, and the mouth beneath wide, with a

PATHAWAY; OR,.THE
carnivorous air about it. The chin was short
--the neck large--the shoulders broad. His
garments were of the poorer sort, well worn,
tattered, and greasy. His hair has already
been mentioned as being in a rank state of na-
ture-long, and matted over his forehead. In
addition to this, the trapper was squint-eyed.
Nicholas internally concluded that his last
adventure had not made an important acqui-
sition to the number of his friends ; in short,
he was not inclined to be pleased with him.
His manner of talking was abrupt, short, and
jerking-giving one the impression that his
words and sentences were discharged from a
catapult or battery. He had a peculiar way,
too, of grunting between his sentences, that
was not charming.
The hurry of the flight and the darkness
had caused Nicholas to deviate from his intend-
ed course. He now found himself on a con-
siderable eminence, surrounded by scenery
that was really wild and picturesque. Cast-
ing his eyes eastward, he beheld what appear.
ed to be the ruins. of a great city. This ap-
.earance was produced by far-stretching and
high-piled masses of rocks, that shaped them-
selves into dark walls, tottering towers, and
broken columns. This mimic city covered
the sides and summit of a mountain, and at
last, with its grand and gigantic scenery, was
lost to view in a deep and dark valley.
In all his wanderings, the trapper had never
beheld a sight more worthy of attention.' He
was contemplating it with a rapt sort of won-
der, when he was addressed by his companion:
"Terbaccer, eh ? Chaw, stranger ?"
Nicolas turned, and met the heavy eyes of
the questioner.
"You want some o' the weed. I allow, and
I'm most alleys able to''commodate in that
line, though I'm not powerful fond on't my-
self. Mister, I should say you'd been in a con-
demned little difikilty " answered Nicholas.
' Diffikilty, eh ?  Tisn't the first time,
stranger ; reckon 'twon't be the.last. "Spect
sich accidents in the wilderness. Git used to
everything, you know, arter a while."
The free trapper, stopped, and filled his
mouth from the pouch which Nicholas tendered
him, then rolling the narcotic mass into his
right cheek with his tongue, added :
" I obsarved you war lookin' at that heap
o' rocks. We call it the haunted city."
'We ? Who ?" asked Nicholas.
The man hesitated, then stammered:
"Why, we free trappers, to be sure !"
1I wasn't aware," replied Nicholas, "that
folks went trapping ' 'mong the rocks. I gin-
er'l set my traps in the valleys, on streams,
an lakes.
" In coorse ; but one can't help seen' a
mountain o' rocks like that, if he's anywhere
in the neighborhood on't. But I'll tell you
that it isn't a place of good repute. People
o' my crat usually give it a wide berth.

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                        9
Lonely trappers and hunters have suddenly
disappeared in the vicinity of Haunted City."
Nicholas shook his head incredulously, and
the trapper went on :
" Noises have been heerd there like dis-
charges of artillery. The Ingins say that the
Thunder Spirit lives there. Have heerd mys-
terious rumblin's there myself.  There's a
deep valley away yonder, called Lost-Trapper
Valley. We call it Trapper Valley for short."
"Who named these places?"asked Nicholas,
looking sharply at his companion.
" Every place must have a name, you
know," he replied, somewhat perplexed again.
" One place is named from one sarcumstanee,
another from another.  I happen to know
about 'em, 'cause I've cam ped a good many
times at Otter Creek-which, I reckon, cant
be more nor five or six miles from here. By
the way, stranger, I allow you -oughter have a
name yourself?"
The trapper looked at Nicholas inquiringly.
" You're right, mister," returned the latter,
" I have plenty o' names, and I don't know as
I'm  ashamed of any of 'em.   The. Ingins,
'cording to their heathenish notions, call nye
Doubledark, having somehow or other got the
idee that I'm shy and crafty, which is a mis-
take o' theirs. The fact is, I'm neither dark
nor deep, but transperient, as 'twere, and easy
to see through. As for bean' double-faced or
double-natured, I ain't.  I don't earry two
faces--I never did--I can't. Oh, no !"
Nicholas took a long breath, and let it out
slowly, with the air of a man who feels that
injustice has been done him.
" Doubledark I" repeated the other, with ia
mocking laugh. " Youdon't look'like it, eh ?
But what's your white name? I don't care
much about red titles."
" There's a name that I used to be called
by, but sence it's got down into the settle-
ment, and been talked over a good 'eal "ti
folks that I don't know nothin' about, I ait
forrard 'bout mentionin' it to strangers. Tin
truth is, that I've bean writ-up in the -peiis
by idle people that hadn't nothing' better to do
--and I don't jest like it. I'll make a piso
diffikilty 'mong 'em, if I ever git down as "fur
as the clearin's. I never 'speeted that thin s
would come to-sich a pass. I s'[osed I should
be left to live and die in peace onmolesfed iOn
the peraries, with my gun and traps by ny
side, and my dogs and losses around me:
But we ain't sure o' nothin' in this world but
diffikilty, and that we ean count on'with some
sartinty. They tetched me in a tender p'int
when they put me in print; and doubted the
traditions o' my family."
" If you're goin' on i0 this way, mister, you
may as well drop the-subjeck, for you'll never
git at the question T asked ye. - As for print.
in' and all that sort o'- -nonsense,, I never
trouble myself about it; and can'tread a wqrd
if it's printed neaer o well."

M


10

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

"Pm a modest man," resumed Nicholas,
though I have my peculyarities. All I want
is, to be let alone."
The speaker brought his rifle down upon
the ground emphatically, and added :
"Nick Whiffies wants to be left alone-left
alone to tell his stories, to have his joke, to
live out his own life in his own way. Oh, yes!"
The free trapper fell back a little, chewed
his quid violently, ran his eyes up and down
Nick's tall figure, and said, presently, in a
voice thickened with tobacco juice :
"So you're Nick Whiffles ?  Guess so!d
Pooty likely!"'
"6What am I to understand' by that 2" de-
manded Nicholas, tartly.
"4That I'm not a woolly sheep !" answered
the trapper, with a grin.
"I don't git at your meanin' yit, precisely.
Be a little more plainer, if 'tisn't too much
trouble," continued Nick, quietly.
" Don't throw dust in my eyes, and I won't
wink I" said the trapper, with provoking cool-
ness.
oI don't like to have a man begin my
'quaintance by doubtin' my word," responded
Nick, with warmth. "If you can't believe a
person when he tells you his name, you must
be a faithless critter ; and I calkilate that we
can't hitch losses together, nohow. I a'n't
quarrelsome, lout I want to be believed when
'm tellin' the simple truth. The Lord knows
that I a'n't proud o' my name ; and for the
r reasons I've give, should very well like to for-
git it. But if you doubt my veracity, I'm
afeard there'll be a diffikilty atween us."
"You threaten, eh ? Goin' to scare me,
a'n't ye ' Come now, that's good, Mr. Double-
ark, Darkdouble, or Doubledark, I shall knock
under right away. Uh !". The trapper fin-.
ished his remarks with a grunt that might
have honored a grizzly bear.
"Before we go an further, I' should like
some kind of a handle to handle you by !"
said Nick."
" Take Jack Wiley, and handle me by that;
and rather keerfully, too, for there's some
glass in me, and I may break with rough
usage."
"Glass, and brass, too I" muttered Nick.
'iJes' so, if you like it. As for Ingin nick-
names, I a'n't a whit behind any free trapper
in the country, but have got as, many and as
long. Some call me the Medicine-Calf."
"1Should like to hear ye bleat, Mister."
" One tribe calls me Two Hundred Hosses,
because'I run off a drove o' losses of jest that
number, one night, from their camp. But
come, I don't feel disposed to quarrel with a
man who has done.me a good-turn, even if he
does undertake to gammnon me a little."
" Well, be it so ; but if things hadn't been
as they are atween us, I'd made you believe
that the moon was made of buffaler-humps,
and you's roast a slice .on't-oma stick. But,
come on, Jack Wiley, let's foller this ridge."

"It'll take us ruther too near 4he MQek
City to be altogether agreeable 1" returned
Wiley, as Nick moved onward.
" That's clear Ingin," said Nick. " White
men never ought to git sich notions into their
heads. I've heerd o' this rocky city afore,
but never believed there was anythin' onna-
teral about it, less a mountain-sheep or a poor
root-digger are sunthin' out the common
course."
"I don't pertend to be any wiser nor my
neighbors, and shall speak only for myself ;
but I shall give Trapper Valley and that
mountain a wide berth. It's said that them
that enter Trapper Valley never find their
way out, and a'n't never heerd on ag'in. The
Ingins think the place enchanted by a bad
spirit, and that everybody, who unfortinitly
gits into it, becomes immediately lost, and is
doomed to wander up and down, looking for
a way out all the rest of his days.  You
needn't shake your head ; I tell ye they've
been seen there, Mr. Doubledark."
" Well, I won't dispute the p'int, though I
never 'spect to see anythin' worse nor I am
wherever I may go. I never could see sperits
myself, but I had a niece that eerld see 'em
in quantities to suit customers. You-c heerd
o' my family, I allow. 'There was my gran'-
father, the traveler, and my uncle, the bistc-
rian, that were oncommon in their line o' busi-
ness.  I know that folks have shook their
heads and laughed in their sleeves, as 'twere,
when I've mentioned their expl'ites, which I
have,:occasionally, to keep their memories
green."
With this kind of conversation to beguile
the way, the parties kept on till they reached
a spot where they could command a fuller
view of the Mimic City, which, looming up
spectrally in the moonhght, looked weird and
solemn.
"Down yender," said Jack Wiley, pointing,
" where you see the rocks piled high, is the
entrance to Lost Trapper Valley. It is called
the Devil's Gate. Havin', as .I told you,
trapped at Otter Creek, Beaver Springs, and
Black Rock, I've picked up these stories from
one and another that I've come across in the
way o' business."
" You interest yourself more about sich
things nor I do. Give me geod trappin' and
huntin'-ground, and I won't trouble myself
about the superstitions of the Ingins and ig-
n'ant white men."
Nick suddenly paused, then added, in a dif-
ferent tone :
"Jack Wiley, look there, among the rocks,
and see if them is some of your hobgob.
lines !"
"Where--where ?" demanded Wiley.
" Don't you see 'em movin' silently 'mong
the rocks ?"
"Yes, I do ; and we'd better be going , 'less
we should see somethin' worse 1" responded
Wiley, hurriedly.

4,
'.
s,
'T

"1

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE
"You can go where youplease, Mr. Two
Hundred Hosses ; but my eyes was give me
for service, and I shall use 'em."  "
Nick's attention had been attracted by the
discovery of several persons gliding among
the rocks in single file. They were not so far
distant, but he could see them very plainly.
Their garmentsand manner of walking inti-
mated that they were white men, although
Nicholas could not positively affirm them to
be such. He counted five, and the foremost
wore a red sash about his waist. He could
see their weapons gleam in the moonlight.
Instantly his mind reverted to the scene that
had transpired in the little basin, when trying
to discover the person, or persons who had
stolen his traps. A singular train of thought
was at once awakened. He watched with an
interest not easily described, the progress of
the five figures, while Wiley stood sullen and
silent. beside him. Nicholas did not speak.
Resting his right arm upon his rifle, with a
kind of quiet abstraction of manner,.he fol-
lowed with his eyes the movements of the
parties among the mimic walls and fragments
of the haunted city. They descended to. the
bottom of the valley, and were lost to view
near the Devil's Gate. Jack Wiley, during this
time, was observing his- countenance closely.
" What do you think on't 1"' he asked, ab-
ruptly,.
" That it's not an oncommon thing to see
trappers in this part of the country !" answer-
ed Nicholas, drily.
"Not sich as them-not sich as them !"
muttered Wiley. " I've one piece of advice
to give you, stranger ; and I do it out of gra-
titude for the good turn you've done me :
Shun Trapper Valley, the City of Rocks, and
the country hereabout, as you. would a war-
party of Blackfeet, or the plague, or the pes-
tilence,,or anything that's dangerous and to be
feared."
" I thank ye, Jack Wiley, for the warnin';
but I'm not afeard of man or goblin. I've
walked the woods, and mountains, and prai-
ries many years, and there's no place that I,
fear more nor another. All spots atween Co-
lumbia River and Hudson's Bay are alike to
me.   I know the haunts of the. wolf, the
grizzly, the panther, and all the destructive
animiles of this region, as well as all the vil-
lages, trampin', campin', and huntin'-grounds
of the red pison sarpents ; and I go to and
fro as one who understands his craft, and has
-taken the measure of his compacity to meet
sarcumstances and govern 'em."
Nicholas uttered these words with decision ;
and shouldering his rifle, resumed his way
with. the firm step of one who has confidence
in his own judgment and foresight.
CHAPTER IV.
THE GRAY HUNTER,
The youth -Sebastian - Delaunay-having
.  ached the plateau, entered a small hut hid-

0

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                       11
den in a growth of cotton-wood. The dogs
followed him, looking back, occasionally, in
the direction their master had taken. A fire
was blazing in the centre of the hut, beside
which he seated himself For a while he be-
guiled the time by adjusting feathers to the
shafts of some arrows, while phis canine com-
panions, stretched at his feet, observed his
operations with half-closed eyes and sleepy
good-nature. Wearying of this employment,
and anxious for the return of Nicholas, he-
took down an Indian long-bow that hung
against the wall of the hut, and after stringiig
it carefully, buckled a well-filled quiver across.
his shoulders, then made his way to the spot
where hehad parted with the trapper. It was
dark ; but the dogs, taking the scent of their
master, ran along before him, thus guiding
him to the valley. Like a sleepless sentinel,
he kept faithful watch upon the cliffs until
the moon came up, sometimes talking with the
dogs, at ethers, musing.
Suddenly, the dog, Smuggler, erected his
ears and pointed his long-nose down the val-
ley, which was now faintly silvered over with
the moonbeams; his four-footed associate
growled and started to his feet, and would
have bounded down the mountain-side had not
Sebastian restrained him.
The youth was well enough acquainted with
the habits of the dog to know that he had seen
or scented either man or beast ; but it was in
vain, however, that he taxed his powers of
vision to see any animated thing. - A cluster
of dwarfed pinon farther down the declivity,
within a few rods of the bed of the valley,
offering a better and more sheltered point of
observation, he descended to it.
The advantage of this movement was im-
mediately manifest ; for, straining his eyes.,
southward, he beheld a figure approaching.'
It was a white man, but evidently not Nicho-
las - there being a palpable difference in
height and garb, apparent even at that dis-
tance. Sebastian regarded his advance with
a singular feeling of curiosity.  He .was
young--.he judged by his elastic step, and
straight, lithe form. As he drew nearer, he
perceived that his garments were of coarse,
gray stuff, differing materialfy in cut and fit
from those of the hunter and trapper-show-
ing, perhaps, that he was fresher from  the
haunts of civilization.  Of his features and
complexion, the youth could form no opinion-
and it was only when the moon's silver rays fell
upon him, that he could arrive at conclusions
respecting his garb and equipments.   His
arms consisted of a two-barreled carbine, slung
to his .back by a strap. Beneath a plain
leather belt he wore the indispensable hunt-
ing-knife, and the ever-convenient pistols with
which writers of fiction provide their heroes,
brigands,-and adventurers.
Though alone, and in the heart of a savage
country, the young hunter (we will call him
such) looked brave and self-reliant-at least,

i


4

12

PATHAWAY; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

so thought Sebastian, whose attention was now a bear, while a second howled like a wolf, and
solicited in another direction by Smuggler, the third crowed like a farm-yard chanticleer.
who erected his ears, pointed his nose, and  The young man's temper was evidently
displayed a strong inclination to dart off up yielding.
the valley. With a hand upon the head of    "If you think it is becoming to meet a
each, the youth subdued them, at the same 'stranger and a white man in this manner, I must
time making an effort to discover the cause of beg leave to differ with you. Your conduct
their additional excitement. Immediately the is both insultin and rude ; and therefore, good-
youth sawwhat affected him very much--three  night !" he said, tartly.'g
men dressed in a wild, uncivilized manner.  "Not so fast, mon garcon ! We have busi.
In their outward persons, the roving trapper ness-with ye."
and the fierce and predatory Indian seemed  The speaker advanced toward the gray
to be united, with an ingenuity and effect that hunter, with a leering, insolent expression.
rendered them more unique and startling than  "Stand back ! Don't come too near !" he
either, alone.  They advanced in silence, said, pointing his carbine.
while Sebastian, for some reason, regarded  While this was transpiring, Sebastian De-
their coming with pale face and trembling launey looked on with a fixed and stony in-
limbs.  Crouching between the dogs, and tensity. He had not changed his position-
winding an arm around the neck of each, he he still crouched between the dogs, upon one
gazed at them with nearly suspended respi- knee, with his arms about their necks and his
ration, and with a Countenance upon which  hands upon their mouths. He lost not a word
terror, incertitude, and dismay were dominant. that passed, nor a movement.
Gone was the sprightliness and buoyancy of  "Perhaps you don't know, youngster, that
the youth-- but his fears appeared not the my name-s Grizzly Bear. I'm death on all
common, abject promptings{,of cowardice, but small game that dares step in my way ; so put
a sudden horror inspired b some dread mys- down your pop-gun, and we'll decide your ease
terious power.                            for ye, presently."
Sebastian glanced, shuddermnly, toward the  ".I propose to take:care of myself. I trust
young hunter--he had steppe, and unslung no such villains. I warn you to look to your-
his carbine. The parties had discovered each selves, for I'm not the man to be brow-beaten
other and at the same instant. What would -robbed, perhaps, with impunity !"
they do? Would the meeting be friendly? - The Grizzlylsear scowled, menacingly. The
Sebastian Delauney believed not. He of the natural malignity of his disposition was being
gry frock also had his doubts. It was true aroused.
that the three persons looked like white men  "Stranger, did you ever hear of Bill Brace ?"
and free trappers-but their prestige was more he asked, in a voice in which anger was begin-
savage than that of the native inhabitants ning to show itself.
themselves..It is easy to be suspicious. Some- " I may have heard of such a knave, but do
times one's intuitions warn him whom to shun, not .now remember," answered the hunter,
and admonish him where confidence should boldly.
stop. "I'm Bill Brace !" added the trapper.
The foremost of the three hybrids, after  "Perhaps you'll do me the honor to intro-
staring at the man in gray-a little while, drew duce your companions ?" retorted the hunter,
off a fantastic skin cap, with the tail of some with a sneer.
animal attached ; and, after scratching a bristly "You'll soon know 'em well enough, I'll
head with a hand that looked like the paw of warrant. This feller, who can eat a raw unile
a grizzly bear,.yelled like an Indian. The for his dinner, is Ben Joice ; and this chap,
other, not replying to this salutation, he said : who can swaller a quart o' raw whisky at
"Hillo ! hallo, there, my mangeur de lard !" once, is Zene Beck. - I don't think you'll
"No.,more a pork-eater than yourself !" re- ever tell our names at any of the tradin'-posts
plied the hunter in gray,                 or settlements !"
' Don't be impudent, mon garcon. We was  There was something notably sinister in the
born on the peraries a half grizzly bear, half mannerin which he uttered the last sentence-
panther, half French, and half Injin. Wa ! pertinacious perverseness, a sullen depression
wa !"     -.                              of ,the facial muscles.  Pride of strength
The gray hunter threw his carbine across his made him insolent. Bill Brace was one who
left arm, with his right hand on the lock, and believed in the invincibility of his own mus-
the other on the guard-                  eles. Lawless b inclination and habit, vicious
" Im a peaceably-disposed hunter. I med. and aggressive by nature, he was in want of
dIe with no man's business, and only ask the that wholesome. rebuke that tames the ruffian-
simple privilege of being let alone. I'm not and humbles the brute-man.
so young and inexperienced as to be terrified  "Men," said the young man in gray, " if
by bravado and bluster, but am willing to meet you will tell me your purpose, I shall know
ever honest person on a friendly footing, bejbetter hoW to meet you. If your intention be
he white,:red, or mongrel, like yourselves."  robbery, I shall be no passive subject of such
One of the trappers growled derisively, like an outrage. I have seen men of your type

4

I

' i
K
ta}
f
i
i
t

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE
before ; most of them have been peaceable
and well disposed ; and, I can assure you, those
who were otherwise gained nothing."
"Throw down your weapons !" vociferated
Bill Brace.
"Yes, down with your weapon !" repeated
Ben Joice.
" Down with your two-shooter 1" said Zene
Beck, in a threatening voice.  .
The hunter's figure grew more erect and de-
fiant. His countenance, so mild in expression
a few moments before, was now firm and reso-
lute.
Bill Brace laid his hand upon the handle of
a formidable bowie-knife, and advanced his
right foot. The hunter cocked his carbine.
"Look you, fellows! There are three of
you opposed to one. The first man of you
that makes an aggressive movement, I will
shoot as I would a turkey-buzzard. I hold
you to be outlaws, adventurers, vagabonds, and
not true men. If you wish a quarrel, I will
meet either one of you on fair and equal
terms, whether it be with rifle, pistol, knife, or
the weapons which Nature has provided."
Bill Brace elevated his burly shoulders, and
laughed scornfully ; but there was more anger
than merriment in the demonstration.
"You crow loud for a cock fresh from feather-
beds. Tryin' to imitate the giniwine game,
ain't ye ? Going' to scare grizzly-bear eaters, I
reckon. You'll fight Bill Brace, will ye ?"
The fellow stood with his gun before him,
the breech upon the ground, both hands upon
the muzzle, his body bent, and his bearded,
dirty chin thrust forward. , Never was the de-
mon of the perverse and insolent more palpa-
bly pictured. Dwelling afar from the restraints
of civil law, cut loose from all the forms and
conventionalities of society, following his own
wayward impulses unchecked and unques-
tioned, pampering his wild appetites, aping
Indian habits--their vices, not their virtues-
with full faith in his brute powers, he had de-
veloped into a full-grown ruffian of the savage
and uncivilized sort.  Backed by kindred
spirits, with no moral curb upon his passions
and desires, he believed that he was not only
a law unto himself, but to others.
The gray hunter, though taller, was of
lighter build. He had more symmetry, and
less prominence of muscle. The individual
would have been hypocritical who faulted his
proportions. His configuration gave promise
of quickness and suppleness ; but his frame
did not appear of sufficient hardihood to con-
tend with the muscular insulter before him.
But Sebastian observed that he was cool and
steady, unshaken by the usually attendant
trepidation of anger and danger.
"1Do you hear it,.Ben Joice, and you, Zene
Beck? This soft-bearded-this tender infant
--this pulin' manger de lard will meet Bill
Brace with any weapons, from. his fists to a
blunderbuss 1"
In a paroxysm of comical, yet inexpressible

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                       IS
contempt, Brace plucked off his fur cap by its
swinging tail, threw it upon the ground, and
trampled upon it, while his companions mani-
fested their admiration in various ways ; one
by thrusting two fingers into his mouth, and
whistling through them-the other, by dou-
bling himself up, and pretending to be strug-
gling with irrepressible laughter, of a nature
the most ludicrous possible.
The gray hunter remained perfectly tran-
quil, with his carbine still in a position to be
instantly available.
" Milk-drinker, I take that challenge! lie,
he ! ho, ho ! Jest-think on't, boys ; he's going'
to tackle Bill Brace, the raw catamount-eater
-the double-barreled bully of the Saskatche-
wan 1"  Then, to the young man: "Jes' say
how you'll go out the world, mister, and it's
done! Will ye have lead, or steel, or grizzly-
bear paws, which is the nateral weapons, as you
call 'em ?"
" We'll begin with the weapon's of Nature ;
then, if you are not satisfied, the bowie-knife
shall decide who is to be buried in this valley !"
"As for that matter, I can tell ye aforehand.
We don't take the trouble to bury folks herea-
bouts ; the wolves are the undertakers in the
mountains ; they make short work on't, and
nothin' to pay for grave-diggin' and services.
But we're wastin' the precious time. Say
your prayers as quick as ye can, and I'll swal-
ler ye !"
"Moderately, moderately, my double-bar-
reled ruffian! There are conditions to this
duel ; the arms of yourself and friends must
be deposited by that cluster of pines ; then
your comrades must withdraw to yonder rook,
and remain passive spectators of the contest,
let it turn.which way it may. As for myself,
I will place my weapons by this tree behind me"
where I can easily get at them in case of trea-
chery and bad faith."
To this proposition Brace at first objected,
but finally assented ; and the weapons of the
party, after some delay, were disposed of as
stipulated by the hunter. Sebastian held
tightly upon the muzzles of the dogs while
this part of the business was being performed ;
for the arms were deposited within a few yards
of his hiding-place. Smuggler rebelled a little
as Ben Joice drew near, in the discharge -of
this duty, and the dog Misfortune actually
growled, as if his name was ominous ; but the
sound did not attract attention.
Beck and Joice retired to the spot desig-
nated, which placed several yards' between
them and their arms, and about the same dis-
tance from Brace and his antagonist. The
former cast off his hunting-shirt, and bared his
stalwart arms, like a tnan who wishes to get at
his work as soon as may be ; while the latter,
having laid his gun, pistols, and hunting-knife
at the roots of a cotton-wood, deliberately di-
vested himself of his gray"frock, and tightened
his waist-belt. His lithe, syinmetrical figure
was now displayed, i st il''ntraat to the


14

PATHAWAY ; OR, TAE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

stout and unshapely proportions of Brace, who,
to all outward appearance, had a physical su-
periority, weighing at least a hundred and
eighty pounds, while the weight of the other
could not exceed a hundred and fifty pounds.
"Stranger," said Brace, with mock serious-
ness, " you'd better tell me your name before
I devour you ; as some of your friends may
want to set up a stone over your bones if they
should ofdance to hear what kind of an eend
you made !"
" Should I be assassinated here by you, or
yonder cutthroats, an adventurer by the name'
of Pathaway will be missed among the moun-
tains. Are you ready, Bill Brace ?"
"All.ready !" responded Brace.
"Then come on, and get what you have
long deserved !"-
The young man advanced his right foot and
arm, then the left with the corresponding arm,
and "dressed up " to his antagonist. His
right arm was now drawn back like a bent bow,
his left hand forward, while his eyes were fixed
steadily upon those of Brace, who came on
with a great flourish, intending to bear down
his antagonist by mere force of muscle. He
led off with his right, and received a return-in
his mouth with Pathaway's left. It was at
once evident that the latter understood the art
of self-defence, while the former was ignorant
of its advantages, confident that brute strength-
was all that was- required in an encounter of
that nature.
" The youngster's drawed the first blood !"
cried Joice. " Look out for him, Bill !"
Surprised at this rebuff, Brace fell back, and
noticed that his beard was changing its color
from dark to red.
" Time !" shouted Joice, derisively.
At the second round, Brace advanced more
cautiously, manifesting an intention to end the
matter by one crushing blow. He led off with
his right again, when Pathaway cross-coun-
tered, and gave him a heavy fall.- Joice and
Beck greeted this event with noisy laughter,
thinking that their champion was " playing
off," in order to come off with more honor by-
and-by, when he had tampered with the
youngster long enough to suit his purpose.
":Get up, Bill; what are you tumblin' about
in that way for'?" said Joice.      .
" There's a good 'eal of 'possum in Bill,"
observed Beck, hopefully.
" Yes, indeed! he'll peg into him by-and-
bye. He'll whip that youngster till he won't
know tie moon from a fire-bug !"
b]ill Joice was now in a furious passion. He
at Pathaway, roaring like a buffalo-
bull. He struck right and left ; his arms
swung about like flails, always striking
the air-never his antagonist-who, dressed
under those active members to the left, to the
right, planting his blows wherever he pleased.
Joice called "Time" again, and the bully was
evidentlygladto rest. He scanned his more
youthful antagonist from under his depressed

and heavy brows, with mingled ferocity, ma-.
levolence, and amazement. He wondered what
had become of his own strength, and on what
object his hot wrath had fallen. He mouthed,
and scowled on Pathaway, with the swelling
fury of a bafled and tantalized beast of prey.
The man who had given the somewhat unique
name of Pathaway, maintained his calmness ;,
and, with his arms folded upon his breast, met
the flaming glances of the ruffian trapper, un-
moved.
Ben Joice and Zene Beck unconsciously drew
nearer ; they were becoming deeply interested
in the contest. Sebastian, too, fascinated by
the exciting spectacle, raised himself to obtain
a better view; and the dogs, equally sympa-
thetic, arose upon their haunches.
. Brace, panting like a steam-engine, with a
startling oath, dashed again at the hunter, who,
passing under the belligerent arm, plunged his
left like a bullet under his right ear. Brace
fell like a bullock in the shambles-got up in
a flurry, striking more wildly than ever. Now,
for the first time, the gray hunter began to
show his marvelous power; he aimed his blows
with a skill that was never baffled, and the
face of the bully was soon reduced to a pulpy
and unsightly mass. The blood rained down
his beard, and reddened his broad and heaving
chest. He fell every moment, and scarcely
had strength to rise, while the small fists of
Pathaway played upon him like iron bolts.
An upward blow, like a lightning stroke, under
the chin, gave Bill Brace the coup de grace-
stretching him senseless upon the ground. !
" So let brutal insolence be punished !"
cried the hunter. Then, turning to Joice and
Beek, with a lofty and scornful air, added :
" Which of you will take his turn next ?"
Presently, Brace began to revive ; there
was too much brute hardihood in him to re-
main long passive. He blustered to his feet,
hurling impotent imprecations upon his con-
queror ; but, too weak to stand, fell with a
helplessness that made every joint in his body
crack. But, though deprived of physical
power, he still command had his vocal organs,
" Your bowie-knives, men!t Cut up the
rascal as you would a slaughtered buffalo.
He's the devil !i-at him, Ben Joice! Give
him plenty of steel, Zene Beck, and I'll be
your debtor forever I"
Quick as thought, Pathaway put his hand
to the back of his neck, and drew forth one of
those terrible weapons that bear the famed
name of the great Texan fighter-Bowie, the
brave, the dashing, the daring. The bright,
silvery, two-edged blade flashed rapidly in the
air, reflecting the moonlight like the.facets of
a diamond.
Joice and Beck drew the -same weapons
from their leggings, and were in- the act of
springing forward, with an uicivilized, free-
trapper shout, when they were arrested by the
gladiator attitude and gleaning blade of the
gray hunter.

I

4

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.     15

"Cowards !" he shouted --" why do yo
pause ? Come on, and the mangeur de fare
will give you a lesson in wild-wood manners.'
"Don't let him scare you, though he b
the devil I" muttered Brace, hoarsely.
Ashamed of their weakness and incertitude
Joice and Beck advanced upon Pathaway
who awaited the onset with rigid muscles and
compressed lips. Both sprang at him at once;
but, evading them with the same adroitness
that had marked his encounter with Brace, he
gave Joice a wound upon the right arm thai
nearly disabled him. At the same moment, an
arrow struck Beek upon the shoulder, and the
two dogs, Smuggler and Misfortune, freed from
the restraint of Sebastian, charged the trap.
pers, baying furiously, while a voice shouted
" What's the matter? Hold up ! There's
a cussed little diffikilty here-isn't there ?"
The combatants paused, and saw a tall fig-
ure, clad in bucks kin, with a rifle upon his
shoulder, approaching them from the northern
stretch of the valley.
CHAPTER V.
THE HUT.
A little in the rear of the tall figure, appear-
ed another of lesser altitude, but of greater
breadth of shoulder. After the quaint address
of Nicholas, the hostile parties suspended their
sanguinary operations, with the exception of a
few kicks at the dogs (who were inclined to
worry them) and considered the new-comers
with interest. .
"Be. quiet, Smuggler ! Down, Misfortin!
It's best to inquire into this business, I reckon.
Been a trifle of fightin' here, it''pears,, What
critter's this on the ground ? His head looks
like a rotten apple, I swear to gracious ! It
never could a been a handsome face, that o'
his'n. I don't believe my gran'father, in all
his travels in Centril Afriky, ever come across
sich a speciment-of human natur'; though he
seed niggers with tails, apes that could talk,
and monkeys that had real military musters,
with captains and gin'rals, majors, and corpo-
rals.",
The dogs became silent at the voice of their
master, who now turned slowly to Pathaway,
and began a philosophical and by no means
hurried examination of his person, keeping up
a running accompaniment of remarks.'
" Stranger, you've licked him like p'isou !
I don't know the beginnin' nor the eend on't,
nor whose side justice is on; but, by the looks,
should say it was on your'n."
" I believe it is, sir. I was forced to defend
myself, or submit to robbery, or worse. I
trust I have taught that bully a lesson that
e'll remember  uring the, remainder of his
life," answered Pathaway, pointing to Brace,
who was lying upon the ground in a sorry
plight.
" He must have a short memory, if he for-
gita it! I must say, mister, that you don't

u look capable of handlin' sich a big lump o
d flesh. But you've give him enough on't, and
" don't 'pear to be cut up much yourself. What
e was the mean skunk doin' all the while ?"
" Accordi' to his brute - instincts-wasting
his strength in ill-aimed blows, striking out
like an. old woman, instead of straight from the
I shoulder, trying to perform with his threats
and invectives what should have been done
s with skillfully-directed bone and muscle."
" You're a trump, by gracious ! As you
t stan' there, you 'mind me of my uncle, the his-
torian. He was about the same height, only
shorter. lHe had an arm like your'n, only
longer. His legs was the very picters of
them you stan' on, on'y his was bowed out a
good 'eal, and wasn't so straight, as.'twere.
His countenance was more open nor yours,
'cause his mouth was a third wider. A re-,
mai-kable nose had my uncle. I've never met
one like it till I see your'n;. but 'twas a" heap.
bigger, stranger-a heap bigger ! I seed it
once in the night with the moonbeams shinin'
on it, and it looked like a cock o' hay. Ah i
sich an orgin as it was ! 'Twas jest in his line,
howsomnever, for bein' a historian, he could
smell out facks that he couldn't git no other
way."
The gray hunter smiled. There were no
traces of the recent excitement upon his face ;
it was now pleasant in expression. The mus-
cles that had been as rigid as steel bands had
relaxed their unnatural tension, and now look-
ed white and soft as a woman's. The gladia-
tor spirit in his eyes was quenched ; he was no
longer the implacable and pitiless avenger, but
the composed and quiet looker-on. He had
dexterously concealed his weapon about his
person, and now-proceeded to put on his gray
frock.
The trapper outlaws listened to this collo-
quy, which passed quickly, in silence, when
en Joice approached Nick's companion, who
had been making various gesticulations and
pantomimic signs.
" Why don't you speak, Jack Wiley, instead
of makin' an ape of.yourself by noddin' and
flourishin' and holdin' your fingers on your
lips? Ain't ashamed of our company, be ye ?
Haven't forgot old acquaintances, I s'pose ?"
" Don't!" said Wiley, edging up to Joice,
and speaking in a - low voice, shielding his
mouth with his open hand on the side nearest
Nick,
 "'Don't?' what the deuce do you mean ?"
said Ben, gruffly.
" Haven't you any sense, man? I don't want
you to know me too well afore this tall, talka-
tive feller. He's one that we shall have to
watch sumw'at. The Injuns, he says, call him
Doubledark ; and if they do, you may depend
on't, he's a sly one.  I shouldn't wonder if
he's sent on purpose to look arter us, though
he's done me a good turn. He's lookin' atus;
don't talk to me too much."
Nick's observant eyes had already noted their

of

I

'      4


16

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

conduct, and he perceived, with ready acumen,
that they were birds of similar plumage.
"Young man," he said, addressing the gray
hunter, " your work seems to be done here ; I
think you'd better go with me. These men
don'teowe you much good-will, and the quicker
you part company, the better for both."
"I accept your offer," answered Pathaway,
courteously; "glad to escape these outlaws
with my life."
"Come, Jack Wiley, if you're goin' with me.
It's time to leave these merry companions.
They're little too free in their notions to make
them safe and agreeable comrades of the camp
fire."
Bill.Brace staggered to his feet, and leaning
against Joice, indulged in a storm of invective
and menace, interspersed with Indian and
French, that could find its parallel in the Nor'-
west only, among'the hybrid and lawless trap-
pers.
"Bill 'Brace has a memory like an Injun !
Wa , wa! Youngster, you've tetched a fire-
brand tthe nose of'the grizzly bear I" he
roared, shaking his fist with the unsteadiness
of a drunken man.
"Should say he'd tetched it with sumthin'
harder'n a fire-brand," remarked Nic .
"I'm trapper and Igin ! Wa ! whoop !
More Ingin than trapper. I'll have your blood,
you pork-eater i I'll foller ye night and day..
I'm Bill Brace, and nobody shall live to say
thathe's whipped me. Kill him, Jack Wiley,
and I'll give ye a hundred beaver-skins !
Where's your pistils, you sneaks? I--I--I
feel faint. Git me some water, Ben. My head's
floatin' all about ; layie down, or I shalttum-
ble." Bill Brace, pressed heavily upon his
companion, who laid him upon the ground in
a partial swoon.S
Nick moved from the spot, the dogs jump-
ing about biu.,
"Sebasti id 1,Sebastian ! What, ho ! Sebas-
tian !" helihouted.
Snuggle .darted forward to the cluster of
pines an.;eommeneed barking. Nick hurried
to him at once ; he found the youth lyingin-
sensible, with his bow in his left hand. He
raised him tenderly in hie arms,
Poor lad ! poor lad I" he muttered.." He's
seen that terrible fightand it's beentoo much,
for his nerves." Then to T'athaway,''He' not
a strong boy, mister ; he hasn't been very well.
lately. Measles or sumthin'; and 'tisn't .the
measles, neither."'
A smilecurled the lips of the gray hunter ;
but the moment he obtained fair viewr of
Sebastiap's face, it gave p1i4e to an expression
of sympathy and surprise..-
"A bois bruid f"'Ee murmured,
"What kind of a;oy " asked  iek, some-}
what startled.,
"4 ABois brtl,epgeted Pathaway.
'He's a good boy,=whatever kind of a boy
he may be besides. He's so kind, so gentle,
and then he's got sich sperit! He's limpy as

a rag now, but he'll stiffen up by-and-by, and
be as peart and brave as a Camanche chief.
His systum is let down, and you can't tell what
folks is when their systum s is down. He isn't
a coward, not a bit on't. 0 Lord I no I"
" Are you his father, and is he your son ?"
asked Jack Wiley, with a sneer. " His cheeks
are a leetle tawny, I observe."
"If I'n his father, he's my son, I allow;
contrawise, no," responded Nicholas, curtly.
Sebastian began to revive ; his large, soft
eyes opened upon Nick. A shudder shook his
slight person.
" Don't think on't, boy, don't think on't ;
it's past now and over, and nobody's killed.
Somebody'd been killed, if their wounds had
been mortal, but they, wasn't. Cheer up !
sick things happen every day, on'y you don't
see 'em."
" What's happened, Nicholas ?" he asked, in
a faint voice.
" Nothin' of no consequence ; a spugilistic
display, in which one o' the parties got con-
demnedly injured. How do you feel now, little
'un ?"
There was much of tenderness in Nick's
voice. The boy put his 'hands over his eyes
and held them there a moment.
Pathaway regarded him with both pity and
admi-ation. Thosemall hands seemed so un-
fit for the wilderness ; the feet and the form,
too, were so ederinate.
"A  pretty lad! a pretty' lad " murmured
the gray hunter. "But tod, delicately reared
to endure the .ardships; of. this kind of life.
He should go back to his*uiet' home on the
banks of Red River, or 'wherever that home
may bey"
" Can you walk now?" asked Nicholas.
Then to Pathaway: " Ak! si;, sich a walker
as he is when he's in his natural health ! He
rides, too, like a monkey. The hoss ish't bri-
dled yet that can throw him off. He's never
so much stouter than he looks. He come of a
'ristocratic family, and wasn't put to work like
others of 'his age. His father was a French
count, an english duke, a Rooshan prince in
disguise, or some ich character; I don't dis-
recollect his title exactly. His mother was a
half-breed of"very high caste-; the most beau-
tiful specinint of, womankind that was ever
seen. Bow do you feelnow, little'un?  Hasn't'
your walkers'got sti enough to stan' on? If
you can't toddle up .the h1ill, I can carry ye,
well's not ; rather like to carry boys of your
age upmounting"
Ni holastoked at the boy very earnestly,
who, by ,tb  aid of bis friendly hand, arose.
Durig this time he had not become conscious
of the presence of thegray hunter ; but now,
perceiving hiinwas greatlysurprised, changed
color an would have ,fallen, had he not been
sup ported by the trapper.
"7What now, sonny? Do you ,feel the dis-
temper coming' on ag'in ?" -Theki, addressing
Pathaway: "He's been subject to these 'tacks

'1
a
I
~1

c}-
r

I
I

t.

"
'?
{_
d
I
'
I

I

i
y
.
t
;2 4
#


r1

PATHAWAY; OR, THE]
ever since he had the whoopin'-cough two year
ago and up'ards. It didn't clear off well, the
cough didn't ; but settled in his constitution,
'specially his limbs. The whole village took
it to once, and whooped so like p'ison that all
the Injins in the kentry took to their heels. It's
a disease that never ought to be 'lowed the,
north side o' the Rocky Mountains."
While Nick was making these apologies and
explanations, he held the youth upon his left
arm and poured some whisky into his mouth.
The fiery liquid went burning down his throat,
producing a paroxysm of strangulation, which,
though attended with danger, had the effect to
restore him to consciousness. 'He smiled faint-
ly, and said that he was quite well again.
"Sartin !" responded Nick, good-naturedly.
"'Twant nothing' in the world but appleplexy,
which isn't serious till you've had it a few times.'
My brother, Doctor Whiffiles, used to cure it
'thout diffikilty with red precipity and yaller
ochre."
"' Not a common remedy," remarked Patha-
way.
"Yes, it wasn't a common.remedy ; it wa'n't
known to nobody but my brother, and the se-
cret died with him. Will inform ye some time
how be came to a full stop., Ah! your legs is
a little shaky yet, but they'll grow stronger
with use, and longer, too. Lean on me, and
don't be afraid of tirin' inc."
" You'd better have a nuss and a wagon
for him !" said Wiley, squinting maliciously.
" I know folks," retorted Nick, invidiously,
"who need a cart and a hangman ; though,
mind ye, I don't say I've seen any sich to-
night."
" Children should have their suppers early,
and be put to bed," added squint-eyed Jack
pretending not to notice the innuendo conveyed
in the trapper's reply. "I never liked puny
milk-sop boys, that faint' away like gals, and
turn pale at the sight o' blood. Boys a'n't
what they used to be afore the settlements got
so thick."
" Everything changes !" said Pathaway.
" There are free trappers who a're not what
they should be."
" I a'n't in no hurry to quarrel with you,
mister. You can wait Jack Wiley's time,
can't ye ?"
The squint-eyed'growled and looked askance
at the hunter ; there was both malice and
menace in his fa'ce.
Sebastian toiled slowly up the ascent, assist-
ed by the careful Nick. They reached the
plateau, and entered the hut. The fire was
renewed, and the parties were soon more pal-
pally revealed to each other in the bright
glare. The youth's' eyes often wandered to
l'athaway, who, in turn, as often looked at the
boy. While he felt compassion for his weak..
ness, he admired his uncommon beauty. He
received with. courtesy Nick's abundant pro-
teslations respecting ~the lad's bravery and

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                      19
hardihood, while at the same time he more
than half doubted the trapper's ingenuousness.
The latter bestirred himself with cheerful ala-
erity in preparing a comfortable supper, of
which the gray hunter and Sebastian partoolk
sparingly, while Jack Wiley devoured not only
his own proportion, but infringed upon that
of his neighbors. Inffact, he was blessed with
the appetite of a fasting bear, and swallowed
the roasted buffalo-meat with astonishing fiei-
lity.
Sebastian, at first, honored this individual
with but little attention ; but when the fire.
light revealed his features, he became the ob-
ject of closer notice, which was returned on
his part by long and stupid stares, which did
not interfere at all with the process of miasti-
cation.' The gray hunter, having finished his
abstemious repast, threw himself carelessly
upon a buffalo skin, which his thoughtful host
spread for his accommodation. Wiley, pro-
vided with a pipe by the same hand, and dis-
posed of in similar fashion, abandoned hitt-
self contentedly to the dreamy enjoyment of
smoke, sustained and kept in countenance by
his entertainer.
The youth, drawing a scarlet blanket about
him, snuggled cosily and timidly into a corner
of the hut, anxious, visibly, to shun observa-
tion ; while Nick, as if by accident, but pro-
bably with a view to favor his wishes, placed
himself partially between him and his guest.
CHAPTER VI.
THE DEVIL'S GATE.
Conversation flagged. The pipe dropped
from Jack Wiley's lips, he sank back into a
horizontal position, and slept.  The others
soon followed his example, and everything
was quiet in the solitary hut. Wiley opened
his eyes, raised his head, contemplated the
sleepers a moment, then arose and walked out
softly. The dog Smuggler aroused a little,
but seeigg no occasion for watching his was-
ter's guest, returned again to his canine
dreams. Free of the hut, Wiley crossed the
plateau rapidly. Nick's horse was! grazing
with equine satisfaction -upon its -margin.
" It's not 'a handsome beast I" muttered
Jack, "but he has good p'ints. His mane is
rather shaggy, but his tail is a beauty, and
them is nice legs, too, for speed - they're
anyooth, clean, and parfict in the "ints. I like
that back, the small head, and ine curve of
the neck. 'Twouldbe almost wicked to leave
sich a creetur ahind. -I owe the queer feller a
good turn, I know; but friendslizg shouldn't
interfere with mere matters o' business."
Wiley turned the axes of his non-coinci-
dent eyes as nearly upon the horse as possible,
with a longing, wishful expression. 'hen un-
buttoning his hunting-shirt, drew forth a stout
lariat that was passed several times.around his
person for concealment. He walked confi-
dently up to the animal, who'suffered him to

1-

0

-'I

f

}t

I

1

*

'l e
i'
*" r

(i


PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

approach and adjust the lariat about his neck
and nose, This preliminary attended to, Wi-
ley leaped upon his back. Shagbark-we will
conform to the humor of Nick in the matter
of names-started off well enough, and went
fifty rods, perhaps, as kindly as a horse could,
when he came to a full stop, thrust out his
fore-feet, depressed his head between them,
threw up his hinder part with a quickness and
energy that sent the horse-stealer somer-
saulting over his neck. Jack alighted upon
his shoulders with a shock that struck sparks
o fire from his squint-eyes. For a brief space
ho saw nothing but a starry host dancing, cur-
veting through the air in the most fantastic
M   mainer.
Nick Whiffles, meantime, had slumbered s
lightly as the ungrateful trapper, and arose
and followed him soon after his unceremoni-
ous exit. From the cover of the cotton-woods
he .saw him seize and mount Shagbark, and
ride away, as described. Now the man that
the Indianis called Doubledark was not one to
submit tamely to the loss of his property, es-
pecially when that property was a favorite
horse. So, returning to the but for his arms,
he ;pursued the offender, and witnessed with
feelings which "we will leave entirely to the
imagination, the ingrate's misadventure.
I knowed he'd do it !" quoth Nick, with
pride. noI'd never forgive him if he hadn't.
He'd no right to let himself be stole by that
mean skunk, who'll git into a prison diffikilty
soon if a work o' grace don't take place in his
nioril nater. The traitor ! the runagade! to
forgit the fate I've saved him from this night.
He'll have to be hanged-he'll never be any
better till he's hanged."
"Them's some o' the tricks that tall critter
larned ye, elh . I'll thrash that kind o' stuff
out of ye when I git ye into the mountains.
Whoa"t stan' still! You won't do that thing
so easy again. There-now put ahead !" said
Jack, recovering himself and reniountimg.
lIe's on again, by mighty ! We'll, if he
can stick on, he shall be welcome to him. I'll
never own a hoss that'll let sick a scoundrel
ride him."
While Nick was speaking, Shagbark was
proving that his training had not been invain.
.tiaving made a few wild plunges forward, he
mreared straight upon his hinder feet, made a
splendid pirouette, dashed to the right, then
to the left, and ended by throwing himself
down, and rolling over. had not the horse-
stealer beep very agile, he would not have
escaped without 'broken bones. As it was, he
sustained bruises of the flesh and abrasions of
the skin.
I'll never yield a p'it-if I can't ride ye,
I'll lead ye !" exclaimed Jack, advancing to
regain the end of the lariat, which trailed
upon the ground. Shagbark, if not wise as a
serpent, yet wise as his master could make
him, now thoroughly in the mood of display-

t

ing his qualities, suddenly turned tail upon
his admirer, and planting both feet on his
chest, knocked what breath out of him that
happened to be in him at the time, and left
him doubled up in the shape of a half-moon,
on the plateau.- Had pot the force of those'
retributive feet been nearly spent before they
reached bim, Jack Wiley would have never
thrown lariat over horse again.
Nick Whiffles lay down in the grass, and
enjoyed-one of those silent and smothered, yet
satisfactory laughs, that sometimes come upon
one almost irresistibly, whose outward expres-
sion is impossible or unallowable.
Shagbark having performed this feat, went
caperingback to his grass, with the lariat trail-
ing under his feet.
After rolling about a while, like a man suf-
fering the purgatorial pains'of bilious colic,
Wileyarose, and with bent figure and muttered
imprecations, started off across the country
in the direction of Trapper Valley.
" I wasn't greatly mistaken in his charac-
ter,",soliloquized Nick, as he tracked Wiley
on his devious way. " There's sunthin' inside
of 'me that callers tells me when a nian can be
trusted. I wonder what 'tis what tells people
who is to be trusted and who isn't. I plucked
him like a brand from the bnrnin', and I don't
know that I'm sorry for it; I'n oi'y sorry
that there's sich base ingratitude in tlhe world.
But it don't trouble me-nothin' troubles inc.
I take the world as I find it. .It's a good
world, I allow, as good as the Master o''Life
could make, for I know that he's so good and
true that he'd made a better one if he could.
There's bad folks in it-sartin, there's bad
folks in it ; but all these things'll come right-
in the course o' natur'. Wonder where lie's
going' ?"
As there was no one to answer the trapper s
last interrogation, he was obliged to depend
on himself for a suitable response; and after
dogging him up hill and down through gully,
ravine, and defile, he stood at last on the emi-
nence overlooking Trapper Valley, while JaZik
Wiley was making his way down the declivity
toward Devil's Gate.
'' He don't 'pear to be so much afeared o'
the hopgobhns as lie was two or three hours
ago," muttered Nicholas. " I think I'm on
the track of them ,I've been lookin'" for. I'll
git at the mystery at last-people callers gi
at mysteries when they try. I'll just keep the
gentleman iii sight. There isn't no harm in
known' the kind o' company lie keeps, and
it may do a heap o' good. I must hurry, for
it's near daylight ; and I don't b'hieve 'it's a
safe place to explore when the sun is shinin'."
The ground which the parties were now
traversing was cut up and rendered danger-
ous by yawning chasms; jagged rocks, rifts,
and gulches. 'There were marks everywhere
around him of volcanic convulsions, that had,-
at some period of the world's history, up-

I

PATHWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

4

"t
'
;+
.
r{
}
a
A
1
_
,
i
1 t
1
r
t
s
%s
fi
'  .

\i
I

21

4

heaved the foundations of the mountains, and  unveiled-he had known -her outward forms
cast forth glowing streams of melted rock and only.- There might be a subtle areanum tran-
earth.  Frequently Wiley was lost to view,  sending all his practical notions, to which he
hidden by the rugged inequalities of the de- was a stranger. There was no weak blood in
scent. Nick followed. the horse-stealer with Nick Whiffles-he could not be a coward any
all that philosophical patience for which lie more than he could be mean, and the latter
was renowned, although the undertaking cost was among the impossibilities ; but there is a
him much laborand some bruises and scratch- wholesome regulator that governs the abstruse
es from the sharp and flinty surfaces. He machinery df man when the common safe-
drew near the valley, and saw Wiley disap- guards fail.
ear through a gigantic arehway of rocks.    Nicholas felt a thrill of cold---a shivering of
'Twas rightly named," said Nick, gazing  the nerves that was uncomfortable, and turned
at -the gloomy portal with interest. " If it to retrace his steps, anxious for the open sky
don't look like the Devil's Gate, I'm no judge, and familiar landmarks. He had not made
nimd don't know a common door from an open- much progress, when he became aware that he
ing in the clouds."         '              was not alone in the tunnel. He heard scratch-
The two sides of the gate were formed by ing sounds on the rocks, like a dog or larger
towering columns of basalt, which, leaning  animal scrambling over them. The darkness
toward each other, met at the top. Other was too great to allow him to see farralthough
shafts of the same formation, some larger, he was extremely desirous to know what kind
some smaller, filled up the picture, and being  of companionship he was keeping. He was
crowded closely together, left but one main naturally sharp-sighted; and, getting accus-
entrance to the mysteriousregion called Lost tomed to the midnight sombreness, he was
Trapper Valley. When the object of his pur- able to discern an object moving along a lit-
suit had passed out of sight, the curiosity of tie in advance, in a parallel line with himself.
Nicholas was so much excited, that he was un- At first, he was disposed to think it a person
willing to return without making further ex- creeping upon the hands and knees-but he
plorations.  Advancing, he stood upon the soon abandoned this idea as incorrect. To
weird portal, while the mimic city loomed up  satisfy his doubts, he threw a small stone at
before him in the northern quarter. II went it, and it was answered by a threatening.
forward, but darkness was before him. It, growl.
seemed to him that he was entering a subter-  Nick paused ; his position was most unen-
ranean region. The air was chilly and freight- viable. He was undecided whether to advance
ed with damp vapor, while the footing was or retreat ; but, as the bear kept on, he con-
dangerous. He had proceeded but a short eluded to proceed, believing that there was
distance, when he made a misstep, and receiv- more safety before than behind him, for the
ed a fall that bewildered him ; but becoming glimpse be had obtained of the vestibule' of
clear in ia moment, went on again. He paused Trapper Valley had impressed him unfavora-
now and then amid his stumblings and ,blun- bly. Nick felt his way-along, guiding himself
derings, and tried to see the stars overhead, by the pointed rocks on his left, narrowly es-
but could not. Very cautious persons would gaping several dangerous rifts and pitfalls.
have abandoned the adventure ; but Niek, He reached, to his satisfaction, the portals of
like Napoleon, trusted in his star. He had the Devil's gate, and was congratulating him-
escaped so many perils, that he seriously self on his good luck, when a muttered growl
doubted whether a real misfortune could'be- a few paces to his right, caused him 'to start,
fall him. His strangely-constituted mind had  grasp his rifle, and half unsheath his ;bowie-
acquired such a strong belief in a protecting knife.
Providence, that the apprehension of evil sel-  Standing by one of the prismoids of basalt,
dom or never obtruded.                     looking over his left shoulder with open mouth,
After considerable groping, the trapper was the bear-a grizzly of formidable size.
found himself in a spot where he could obtain The trapper partly raised his rifle-at which
a glimpse of the sky through the branches movement Bruin growled savagely, showing
of large, over-hanging trees. Hearing a his- rows of teeth like spears of ivory.
sing and roaring noise, he proceeded, and dis-  Nick knew the nature of the akimal-that
covered the cause of the same in a hot spring he was tenacious of life, and nearly impervi-
that threw water to the height of several feet, ous to the assaults of man. The pain of a ri-
emitting clouds of steam which stood over fle ball excites his fury without depriving him
tihe, spot like a misty canopy. Whatever feel- of the power of doing mischief--that it was
ings of superstition inhered to Nick were seldom, indeed, he could be brought down by
awakened. How did he know but the tradi- a single shot.
tions of the red men were true ?. He had lived  " No, no ! it won't do !" muttered-'the trap-
and communed With Nature less than forty   per. "He's an animile that don't ' admit of a
years, and -did not know her thoroughly; -ead shot. Besides, it isn't light enough to do
some of her secrets, Iquestionless, were hidden that kiud o' shootin' that decides the question
from his perceptions. He had not seen her of life and death. I.allerashad a knack o' run-

r


If'
AII

PATHAWAY ; OR, TILE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

Pin' into prison diffikilties, and never shall
outgrow it.  But I've squeaked out of so
many dangers, that I don't believe I was pre-
eerved for bear-meat at last. If I should be
devoured by this critter, I wonder if they'd git
hold on't down in the clearin's and put it into
the tattlin' newspapers. I'd bother 'em, I al-
lw, 'cause there s nobody but the bear to tell
oa't!"
Nick smiled grimly; he derived melancholy
s4tisthction from the conceit. He was still
f4ll of his old quaintness--it was ready to flow
out of the comical corners of his mouth, to
twinkle at you from his genial eyes. Danger
could not change the spirit that was in him ;
nuder all circumstances, he was Nick Whiffles,
the unique, the whimsical. Peril, from man
of beast, could dash him for a moment only ;
ie reacted'like an india-rubber ball.
Come, now, don't threaten too much I"
h added, addressing bruin, who was making
very hostile demonstrations ; "for there's a
stiekn' pint in- human natur, beyond which
patience isn't vartue. If you was'nt so good
atrunnin' up hill, I'd give ye apill right un-
der your ear-I would, by mighty Snarl, if
yo want toI I killed two of your brothers last
fal. You're nothin' but an over-growed dog,
anyway, and out o' shape at that. Your nose
ooks as though 'twas made to pick the leav-
ins out of a sink-spout, and your hind feet is
ast.loig as a hosse's head 1"
:Brun arose and sat upon his haunches, his
fote-feet hanging down like the flippers of a
seal, while his back rested against the pillar of
basalt. Nick would have retreated; but he
stood, unfortunately, in the Devil's Gate, and
could not safely go in any other direction than
through the tunnel toward Trapper Valley-
a locality he did not then care to visit. He
maintained his post, keeping his eyes stead-
ifl upon the bear. He cautiously cocked his
rifle but did notpoint it, fearing to make any
movement to further excite the ire and suspi-
eibn of bruin.
"I don't like to be stared at in that way, you
mint nt" Never seed me afore, did ye?9 Like
to eat ime, perhaps-but 'twould be the tough-
esf mouthful that ever you got hold of. Never
e  e across Nick Whillies in your travels, eh?
Ra ther prepossessin' in my 'pearance, I cal-
kilte; but Iwarn ye that ye'll find more
grease on my huntin -shirt than on any part o'
my system. Haven't had much time to slick
-up, lately."
Bruin now stood singularly erect, and
took two steps toward Nicholas, who leveled
his rifle.
" Do that  'in, old boy, and you and I'll
have a p'isondiikity, right off!'
The ,bear did not stir, but stood up straight
as a man. As the two confronted each other,
the first glow of morning appeared in the
west : and a few golden threads of light, the
aaat-cereura of the coming sun, fell upon the

columns, towers, and galls of the mimic city.
The form of the bear sank to the earth, and
the figure of a human being arose. Nick re-
coiled against one of the columns of the moun-
tain gate.
" An Injin, I swear to gracious ! Who are
ye, redskin? What you masqueradin' in that
shape for? You'll git into diffikilty sometime
in that wayI!"
"Doubledark is brave. He does not fear
the teeth of the bear, and walks with a big
heart in the valley of the Thunder-Spirit !" r =-
plied the figure that had uprisen from the skin
of the bear.
" It is Mult'nomah, chief of the Shoshonis !"
exclaimed Nick. " Glad to see ve, though
this is the last place of all the world where I
should look for ye. Your people are not often
found in this neighborhood, on account of the
stories that are told, about what is seen and
heard hereabouts."
" There is a Manito dwells here that we
must not offend !" answered Multnomah, look-
ing searchingly at Nick. " The Shoshonis
make war upon men, not upon spirits-tlie
first can be seen and handled, the last are like
the wind, invisible, and too fine for the touch
of mortals. Doubledark believes in a Manito
of the mountains ?"
The Shoshoni, who had advanced and sha-
ken hands-with the trapper, now regarded him
with searching intensity. The question was
intended to draw out infinitely more than it
expressed. Nick became quaint in a moment
--his eyes- said, plainly : "I am a pump ;
work the handle, and out it comes." In fact
the trapper thrust his right arm downward, in
imitation of the arm of a pump.
"Ever see one of 'em ?"
" At Selkirk," said the Indian, with a smile.
"Very good--fetch water-cool when it comes
up. Wah! My brother is not a fool. He
knows which way the buffalo goes by the track,
he can tell when the winds will rush down the
. mountains by the looks of the clouds, and he
learns by the setting of the sun what the wea-
ther will be to-morrow."-
"Red brother,ryourwwords are sensible-
they tickle the ears of Doubledark. I despise
a fool, by mighty! Redskin, the air isn't good
here-let us be walkin'."
"No," said Multnomah, shaking his head ;
"air bad-couldn't live here long.  Wal!
Brother, why did you come in to such bad
air ?"
Nick had started off up the mountain side,
but upon hearing this interrogatory, stopped
short, and showed a wide, quizzical mouth to
the Shoshone.
"I went to see the Thunder-Spirit," he re-
sponded.
" Doubledark is too dark ! he does not deal
openly with his brother-his thoughts are
shut up. We cannot walk together."
" Shoshone, there have been strange rumors

I:

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

about Trapper Valley-they have reached my
ears.- Is Mutnomali discreet ?"
The Shoshon6 made i o reply. A scornful
smile curled his lips.
" I understand; it was ag'in the grain, and it
wasn't right, I allow, to question the discreet-
ness of a Shoshone chief. Give us your hand,
redskin, and we'lL make a clean thing on't.
There ain't many white men that can be trust-
ed fully ; but I know the kind o' stuff you're
made on. We've camped together many a
night, Injin ; we've looked at the stars and the
moon at the same time, and wondered how the
sky come to be, and how long it had been.
We've hunted in company, slept at the same
fire, and eaten of the same buffaler off the same
,piece o' bark, roasted over the same blaze, and
on the same stick. Once, Injn, we starved to-
gether, and feasted on half-starved dog at the
eend of our fast. That was in the neighbor-
hood of Beer Spring. We've trapped beaver
on the Yellow Stone and at the headwaters of
Salmon River, and never quarreled. And,
speaking' of trappin', reminds me that I've lost
traps hereabouts-at a place edlled Black
Rock, and at Otter Creek, near the Red Sand-
stone Cliffs."
"Doubledark has lost traps. Is he the only
one who has reason to complain? Have not
others lost traps and peltries ? Is there not
niore to be said, white man ?" answered Mult-
nomah, with earnestness.
"mNot on'y raps, bt them that set 'em-not
on'y peltries but them that owned 'emh, have
disappeared, and there's nobody to explain it."
" The bad Monito is to blame, brother," said
the Shoshon4.
"Injin, neither you nor I believe in sick
nonsense. The Thunder-Sperit would cease to
be herd if you should quinch the volcanic
fires that burn in the mountains. It isn't the
sperits out the body that we have to -fear ; it's
the sperits in the body that does the mischief.
I've had more trouble with them I could see,
than with them I couldn't. Redskin, my eyes
have not been shet."
"Isee that they have been open ; and I am
glad."
"Injin, I've been watchin' these mountains.
They have dark secrets, if they'd on'y tell
'em; but they are mute, and what we don't
know we must l'arn for ouselves. There are
them that walk up and down by night, and
disappear in out-of-the-way places. They
don't seem to be afraid of the bad Manito. No
one that sees 'em knows where they come from,
where the go to, or what their business is."
"Now, Doubledark is not dark ; he speaks
plainly to his friends. Are they white^ or
red:?"
"Injin, Nick Whiffles is a man of truth;
his talk is not crooked. Their skins is white,
but their hearts is black. I'm sorry to say it,
by gracious; but so it is, and there's no gettin'
round it."
" There are bad men among all nations.

23

There are red men whose ways are not straight.
The bad white men inhabit the mountain of
rocks and the valley below. This iq why you
found the Shoshone in disguised"
" Your purpose- was the same as mine, I
reckon. You wanted to look into the myste-
ries of the valley, as 'twere, and see what you
could see. The critter you call Doubledark
was there on the same arrand. What's the use
o' minmc' matters, Injin  There's a set o'
prison rascals prowling' about in this region,
doin' a heap o'mlisehief ; and I'm oin' to hunt
till I find and bring em' to justice. I'm on
their trail; I've slow-tracked 'em. They've
,done things that make my blood bile lkethe
waters Of a hot spring. I shall hound 'em,
and camp on their path till I discover their se-
cret lurkin'-place. There's deeds that must
be punished--wrongs that must be avenged-.
accounts that must be wiped out and choked
out with the halter. I know there's danger--
'twouldn't be exeitin' if therewasn't-.and some
have paid dearly for their curiosity., But it
don't frighten me-it can't skeerNiek Whiffles
-you can't skeer him. 0 Heaven, no! In-
n, let us devote ourself to this work ; let us
dog out these condemned scoundrels, ,and
purge the mountains of sich a load of wick-
edness.
"But the Thunder-Spirit I" queried Mult-
nomah.
"May go to thunder 1" retorted Nick,,em-
phatically.
"Doubledark, the Great Spirit, willed that
we should meet; he wills everything-men, as
well as the clouds and the rain. He said :
'To-night the pale-face and red-face shall meet,
and speak truly to each other.' It is good
that bad men s ould be punished., You see
this bear-skin ?" The Shoshone had rolled up
the skin, and fastened it to his back. "In it
I have prowled among the rocks, and seen men
go in and out at the dark gate. To-night,
something seemed to tell me to enter, and seek
out these bad spirits."
".What did you see ?" demanded Nick.
"1I saw the hot-spring throwing up water
and smoke."-1
" Whatelse ? I observed that myself and
don't feel much wiser for it.
"I went a long way among    at masses of
rocks, that the Great Spirit had hurled down
from the mountains in his anger, or broken u
from the foundations of the valley. Then
came to running water,-that whirled and eddied
among the ledges, and passed out of sight in
a black abyss. Afterward, I crossed a gulch,
and found a,spot where the grass grew, and the
wormwood was rank and tangled, supported
by the wash of the mountains in the ryiny
seasons. Beyond this were trees-some old,
and gnarled, and twisted ; others dwarfed, and
wounded by the descent of rocks from the
cliffs above. Multnomah paused on the, m r-
gin of this wood."
" What happened the. P"

1

i


I

PATIIAWAY ; ORt, T11E MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

24

"d    's Very dirt there-like the silent pas-
skge t* pth land of souls. I could see but a
little strip of the sky. If a Shoshone could
he  ffW id, Multnomah would have had fear.
Fo time he 'stood still, and thought of all
the tales he had heard-of the valley. He tried
to hear the voice of his friendly Manito, telling
hir what to do. Then there was the sound of
steps ; And he laid down upon the earth, and
saw people of your nation. They looked like
free trappers. Their beards were long ; their
hair hung upon their shoulders"; 'their belts
were heavy with knives and pistols, and they
walked with a -swaggering gait, like the red
smi, when his heart has grown big with fire
water. They drove along before then a man
and a woman. The man was Pontneuf, a Ca-
nadian voyageur; the woman was his daughter,
very young, 'and:fair as the new moon. The
hahda of Portneuf were bound, and his head
'bug 'despairingly upon'his breast, his dangh.
ter clinging to lim, weeping. The heart of
Mlnitehoniah Was moved."
"I *Iaow the man well, and a rightiaerry,
loaiipanion he need Sto be. I've'boated with
hirhmole nor once,and. his songs were allers
eetifl and hearty,:as, le,tugge.d ,t!the oar.r
His darter-Nanny, I call her-was a parfect'
ngem in'the way offembinine;gdods... Ingin, it
makes me melancholy, by mighty! She's too
3oingand pooty:f1 'thela'fete she's likely to
meet with. It kind o' chills me as I think on't.'
It-pitstn ish'misd of i amthin' horrible that
*itheeteds one dark night,,at 'Black Rock. It
e8*unoman, $est'as. man this case, and lovely;
4avh irUg1a'angel, that was egnsarned in it. I
eke dthe men who did it; I can recall their
'ngiyeo'iiuntenanees  as I saw 'enm in the torch-
iltr'iw s e held up her. little. hapands!
I beautiful sher asked for merey! 1cr
"*&amp;ds thrilled through me like'arrers, but they
4tlllibilnted fromthehard hearts of 4he inoun-
"teth itdbbers, 'Pears to 'ae I can see then
white arms *avin' to and fro in the air, like the
whit ' ings of a fiutterin' dove.  Injin f I
'W*Iaiready'tobutst;with pity 'and rage. The
petspiration rolled down me like glass beads.
:ff did'y had' dne trudty'friend with 'me, I'd
tackled 'em, though -they was six. Asw'twas,I
t edi  reskydea-+pitehin' into 'em like a can-.
W60 4$s3J. ]ButI did better nor tiat; I pressed
idPw   tdy ehokin' feeling's, and was prudent.
Shosliond, them hardened critters wrapped the
al i h loak,-ith a stone isn't, and threw her
mto thowater, which was dark and deep.- She
knew  tthin'. about-it,:though, for she'd gone
intosa dead'faint; which was a good thing for
Sher. She nank 'in aninstant. sA few bubbles
"iarked the Fspot where e went down, and
then the water glassed 'oder smooth, as if
t6thin',had happened. The murderers turned
natd hurried away, while I slipped into the
teama, and dragged the precious offering' from
its cold baptism to the. shore. Thankfortin,
I saved her ! Redskin, you can't tell the satis-
faetion that that night's work has 'give me.

There never was sich beauty, sich goodness,
sick truth, sick courage, and fortitude as her'n.
0 Lord, no !"
" What did Doubledark do with her ?"
Nick Whiffles seemed taken by surprise; -he
did not answer with his usual promptness and
heartiness.
"Sent her home' to her parents-her breth-
ers, I mean ; and 'twasn't her brethers, neither.
She had friends, you know, Injin, somewhere'
up in the mountains; end "tWasn't so much in
the mountains as in the settlements."
" Wa !" said the Shoshone.
Without heeding this laconic rejoinder, Nick
continued :
"Ever sinee that sarcumstande, which didn't
happen many months'ago, I've set myself to
work to'find the perpetrators of the deed, and
bring 'em' to a reckonitt'. Go on with your
story, 'Injin."
The Frenchman and his daughter passed
out of my sight among the rocks,' and I saw
ther no mote.- I went back ; I met Double-
dark, whoknows what then happened."'
In friendly and confidentiall conversation,
Nick and the Shoshone pursued their Way to-
ward the plateau.
CHAPTER VII.
'a CANON.
The gray hunter slept, unconscious of the
e't of Jaak and 'Nick. His sleep was trou-
bled.- The exciting, scene through which, he
had recently passed gave a -coloring to his
dreams. Bill 'debe,,Ben Joice,'and Zene Beck
had a place in his thoughts, and harassed him
for a long time ; then 'he slumbered more
peacefully. 'Anon, his lips moved ;. his coun-
tenance assumed a differentexpressiohn-softer,
milder, more earnest.  The burden of his
dream had changed.' It seemed to him that a
gentle hand touched his forehead ; that a fair
face'bent over him; that bright eyes beamed
abovehim like love's tender:starlight.
"Una! Una !" lie cried, springing to his
feet, and stretching forth ihas arms in a trans.
port of emotion.   This action thoroughly
awakened him. He panted, clasped his brow
with both hands';. then,'looking about, saw the
boy sleeping tranquilly' in' his scarlet blanket.
"I clasp-what is.it that I clasp?
No breathing fromwithin my grasp
*   * -   *     *   *   *
And art thoui, dearest, changed so much,
As ajeet my eye, yet mock my touch ?"
he murmured. Then, recollecting himself, he
added:
" These vagaries are a shame upon my man-
hood I Time should have taught me resigna-
tion. Pshaw ! I am weaker than yonder boy."
He sat down' upon his couch, supporting his
head with his'hands, and appeared to plunge
into a world of abstraction, where, doubtless,
he found remembered landmarks, and scattered
mementos of past joys and sorrows.

6.4
0s
Co
ai
S.,

r


I

;
L{
x
't
0
t
i
r
}
;i

'
:: ''
: -
F,
.         r
:,,
F
S
i'
r
ts
f
i . ,                 r
6-

6

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE:
Sebastian opened his eyes, and looked at
him timidly. The youth must have been cold,
for a shiver ran over him, which was followed
by a trembling of his whole frame. His
cheeks were burning red, while his eyes shone
unnaturally bright. He did not close them
again till morning'; but, remaining wakeful,
continued to observe the movements of the
gray hunter. Possibly, the lad was afraid ;
but the two dogs lay at his feet, and their
strength and sagacity were no mean protection,
even against greater odds.
When the sun streamed its rays into the hut,
Sebastian arose, and was passing out, when
Pathway, starting from his reverie, addressed
him:
"1Have you slept well, my lad? Your nerves
are not strong, I think ?"
"1I did not dream ; the sleep that is without
dreams is the sweetest, I've heard," answered
Sebastian, carelessly.
"Dreams ?" repeated Pathaway, coloring.
Then, with a smile : "You are right, my boy,;
dreamless slumber is best. Dreams are unin-
vited guests, that intrude *upon harassed
minds."
Sebastian stood in the door of the hut ; the
sunshine fell like gold upon his face and hair.
" He might pass for an Anchises or Adon-
nis," murmured Pathaway. "What is your
name, youth ?" he added.
"Sebastian Delaunay," returned the boy,
indifferently.
"Was your mother handsome, boy ?"
Sebastian smiled ; and his brown cheeks
took a deeper color.
"Her face was darker than mine ; her- hair
was long and black ; her eyes large and
dreamy. To me, hunter, she was beautiful,
though she was a dweller in lodges and wig-
wams."
" But your father-"
" Had a. skin like yours," interrupted Se-
bastinn, turning his back to his interrogator,
as if tired of the subject.-
"'You have your mother's voice, lad, I
should say."
Sebastian beat upon the ground with his'
moccasined foot.
" You called the honest trapper 'uncle,' if
I remember rightly ?"
"I called him uncle," said Sebastian, lacon-
ically-then walked from the hut.
He was gone a considerable time, and,
when lie returned, found Pathaway standing
at the door.
"1Where is my entertainer?  I have looked
for him in vain," he said, as Sebastian ap-
proached.
"He left in the night to follow the fellow
Wiley, I suspect. I shall be anxious about
him if he does not come back soon ; but lie is
wise, and can take care of himself."
The youth paused, and uttered an exclama-
tion of terror. Pathaway looked up,-and saw

3

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                     27
Nick coming, with a grizzly bear walking qui-
etly beside him.- Both Sebastian and the
hunter felt an inclination to retire into the
hut.
"0 uncle Nick ! do not come near with
that frightful beast," cried Sebastian.
" Don't be afeard ; I've magnetized the
critter, and got him under subjection. Cu-
r'ous, isn't it, what power there is in the
will? Wouldn't believed it, 'less I'd seen it
done. Howsomnever, he'd been tamed some
afore I got him. Bought him of an Injii ;
and he's got some queer tricks, I allow  I
can make him stan' up on his hind legs e'ena-
most as straight as a man-shake hands with
his fore-paws-tell the time o' day by the sun
-run, trot, or gallop-lay down or -git up-
and do anything that a dog can !"
".Keep him at a proper distance," said
Pathaway ; " for I never was partial to that
kind of animal."
Sebastian ran into the but for his bow, and
came out with n arrow upon his string.
' Up, you p'son critter, on to your hind
legs, and let's dance the war-dance together!"
said Nick, beginning to chant, in a monotonous
manner, an Indian scalp-dance.  The bear
reared ; and, standing quite erect, danced, in
time and tune, with ludicrous gravity. The
gray hunter and the youth laughed in con-
cert.
"A wonderful bear, truly S" remarked
Pathaway.
" Hunter, nothin' of the common kind
comes up to my idee. You mightn't think it,
but he can be trusted as well as any dog-not
exceptin' Misfortin and Smuggler, who are the
most knowin'est speciments of their race.
He'll be good company for Sebastian when I
go to look arter my traps."
The boy shook his head, and looked star-
tled at this announcement.
"I like the dogs much better, Nicholas,"
he replied.
"The- dogs are extr'ordiner in their line ;
but they haven't the sagacity of this 'ere bruin.
Sa, bow-wow, you shaggy animile."
he bear growled, very much like the copy
Nick had set him.
" There ! that's enough for this time," said
Nicholas. "fLay down, and be quiet. Mis-
fortin, stop barkin'; Smuggler,. straighten
your back down, and be .civil to strangers.
You don't have sich distinguished company
every day."
"Give him something to eat," said Patha-
way, with a quiet-laugh.
"I He devoured half a buffaler cow not
ten minutes ago. If you's to offer him the ni-
cest slice ever cut from a sirline, lie wouldn't
so much as turn it over with his nose. Come
away, dogs, and don't tamper with him; for
his temper isn't alleys even.-Now, stranger, I
allow it's time to apologize , and tend to the
duties o' hospitality."-


PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.     29

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

Nick with thme assistance of Sebastian, pro- The two adventurers shook hands, and the
ceeded to prepare a tolerable breakfas t: Path- gray hunter went. his way-the trapper, watch-
away, as on the previous night, ate but spar- inghim as he struck off to  e  t     d
ugly. When their sim pie meal was ended, disappeared.             tenrhat n
Nicholas and the hunter went away together, Pathaway entered a long reach of timber on
and walked upon- the plateau a long time. the eastern slope of the mountain ;- and, after
The youth looked for the bear, buthe had  a walk of an hour, reached a small prairie at
disappeared.                              the base, which lie crossed. This brought
"I must part with- you for the present,"  him to a lake of stagnant water-skirting
said Pathaway, after an earnest conversation  which, still bearing to the east, lie struck the
with Nick. nIf so accident befall me, I will lowest swell of the range just as the sun passed
return again to your hut."                 the meridian, anid began to pour hsis rays from
"Every man knows his own business best ; the western quarter of the heavens. Ascend-
but I am sorry to have you leave me to-day. ing the swell, he beheld at his feet deep
You won't take it onkind of me if I warn you canon, running to the -northwest. Years ago,
to be cautious. The ruffian, Bill Brace, won't it hid probably been a conduit for water;
forget the floggiig' you give him. The re- but now green grass was growing i1 it. Fa-
membrance on't will be like a Medican saddle tigued, Pathaway stopped to rest : the scene,
on the sore back of a mustang. He'll be res- too, was one that invited him to stay, for it
tive under it as a colt unbroke. And this possessed that wild beauty which lie admired.
isn't all," added Nick, depressing his voice : 1"How picturesque !lhowv grand.! how re-
"there's sunthin' to be feared in the mountains freshing !" he exclaimed.  Iow far apart are
and valleys of this region. The lonely tiap- earth and sky-how pure the air between! I
per sometimes gits lost, and never comes back feel exalted 'by this solitary companionship
to his lodge. Caches are often opened and  with Nature ; 'I stretch out my arms, and
robbed. It isn't a safe neighborhood for the commune with her when all other companion-
young and inexperienced in this perilous line ship is denied."
and business."                               Pathaway sighed, and gazed. downward at
"I thank you, mountaineer, for your friend- the grassy beta of the canon. He saw,- ad-
ly counsel; be assured it is appreciated. I vancing from the western outlet, a trapper,
am not so new in the wilderness as not to  staggering under a great load of peltries. His
know what places to shun, and which to seek. burden was heavy, but he bore it with a will ;
My life is not purposeless. I am not a mere for every pound that pressed upon his shoul-
waif wafted hither by chance winds. I know  ders was a voucher of his success. When
what I would accomplish ; I am strong and  quite blown, he rested the package against a
confident in myself ; I know what my'mind jutting rock, or the convenient branch of a
can plan, and what my body can execute."   dwarf pinon, whose tenacious roots'found a
"Your body isn't very large, though I al- foothold in the rifts and crevices; then he
low it's put up in good shape," remarked   toiled on, singing the chorus of a Canadian
Nick.                                      boat-song, or snatches of mountain melodies.
It isn't the body that has power-it is the  "le is rejoicing," thought Patlawa,"in
spirit that is in it. It is the mind that gives the hard-earned fruits of his labors. To ob-
miomentum and force to the physical frame. tam  that package of furs, he has suffered in-
When a man is fighting in a good cause, the  credible hardships, and braved many dangers.
soul itself takes part in the contest ; it flies Sing on, stout heart--you have a right to be
into the fists and arms, converting the muscles merry. Alas ! your class lacks one virtue ;
into ion: it makes one invincible."      and that is, the virtue of frugality. In a month
"yThat's so-es' so   u " said Nich thoughtful- or two, yonder trapper, now comparatively
ly. "I've frequently thought in the same rich, may return to his old haunts with scarce-
way; but I couldn't express it a quarter so ly a coat to is back,eoaviihg squandered te
well, though Doctor Whifles could a handl'ed proceeds of his peltrie in dissipation and
the subject like a pill-box. There is some- prodigality"i
thin' in larnin' by mighty !. But I can't have  The report of a carbine interrupted Patla-
.patience with them p'ison newspapers down in way's reflections.  Smoke pufed out from
the clearin's, that meddle with private affairs, among the rocks on the otler side of the c-
and drag the histories of folks afore the public  on, and sailed upward, whiteand misty. The
in a ludickerous light, takin' off their style o' lonely trapper fell upon his face, and his
talkin', and makin' fun o' their queer p'ints. hands clutched the grass convulsively. Path-
I have." quoth Nick, shaking his head serious- away instantly changed Isis position, crouch-
ly, "been condemnedly injured by them as iig low upon the ground. Two as sprang
never seed me. I have," b mighty !"        from the ledges, ran to t.e fallen, man, and
" If a man will be Nick Whiffes, he must cut the pack from  his shoulders. mOn of
be famous," answered Pathaway. "Adieu, them pushed him with his foot to see if life
mountaineer, adieu! we shall soon see each remained in him.we
other again."                                "He      '   t                      -
He won't set no more traps," he said.

28 .

"His foot has pressed the last spring, and he's
skinned his last beaver. It's a heavy pack,
Ben, and the heaviest share belongs to me for
doin' the business. Wasn't it my powder, and
my lead, and mny carbine, and my aim that
fixed him ?s"
"All that may be, Zene Beck ; but-the free
mountaineers make a fair thing of the 1lun-
der. We have our laws, you know, and the
cap'n'11 see that they're carried out. As for
shootin' him, couldn't I done the something
myself, and not made no fuss about it, eithous,
Conic, conic ! it won't do to be avaricious,
Zene.  I carry arms as well as you; and
many think me the better man," answered
Ben Joice, gruiffy.
"Don't provoke me, Ben Joice lI'm    a
good enough friend when there's no property
at stake ; but friendship stops where property
begins.  One-third for you-two-thirds for
mse; or; the bowie-knife for both !" retorted
Zene, with sullen ferocity, planting his left foot
on the peltries, and drawing his knife with his
right hand.
As quickly as might be, the other imitated
*is.example, and their -murderous blades re-
flected the rays of the sun like glancing mir-
rors. They struck, they parried, they made
fearful plunges at each other, and both exert-
ed themselves to the utmost to inflict a mor-
tal injury.  They had exchanged several
flesh-wounds ; and the affray would have ter-
minated tragically, had not a man, with a red
sash around his waist, leaped from the rocks,
and-shouted, in a loud voice :
" Hold there, brawlers! Put up your wea-
pons. Are ye so hard-up for amusement that
ye must quarrel among yourselves? Who
was the aggressor ?"
"'Twas about the peltries," growled Beck.
" "I'll settle the matter for ye, you black-
guards! Ho, there, fellows 1-come here."
The man in the sash waved his hand authori-
tativel-, and a dozen men poured down into
the canon, as though they had been vomited
out of the earth.
CHAPTER VIII.
A RESURRECTION.
Pathaway perceived that the leader of these
wild and uncouth men exercised a strong as-
cendency over them. His word was law-his
will paramount. The combatants separated
sullenly, without disputing his authority. By
his order, the pack of peltries was carried up
among the rocks, by two of his fellows.
"4You and Ben are at your old tricks again,"
said the captain, addressing Zene Beck. "You
can't be quiet, and do mischief only when
you're told. There's been a little too much o
this lately ; and the trappers and Ingins are
talkin' about Trapper Valley, and the whole
country hereabouts. This body musn't be
left here exposed ; it '11 be found, and then
there'll be more surmises and rumors afloat

A

Find a convenient place, some of ye, and bury
him."
Instantly, several men set off in different
directions, and Boon discovered a suitable spot
for their purpose; it was a deep hollow, at the
bottom of a gulch, which intersected the canon
at right angles, and'not far from Pathaway.
The body of the unfortunate trapper was
dragged to the gulch.
"He's got done with that huntin'-shirt., I
reckon 1" said an ill-clad fellow. "Wat good
'11 it do him, if we put him to bed with it on?'
The body was instantly despoiled of the
coveted garment, and then thrown into the
hollow. Pathaway, by creeping a few yards,
was able to see these movements, and to hear
the conversation of the outlaws.  Feelings
mournfully unpleasant crowded upon him ; he.
was affected, he knew not why. ie felt a sin-
glar sympathy for the victim of this wrong.
u obtained a casual glimpse of the face as
they cast him into his rough grave. The fea-
tures, hie thought, were placid, like one sleep-
irg, and without the usual painful expression
attendant upon death by gunshot wounds.
The hollow was a depression between two
ledges of red sand-stone, some eight feet in
length, and three and a half in depth. One
of the men cut some boughs from a pinon with
his hatchet ; while another, with lessgentle-
ness, east upon these some flat rocks and frag-
meats of a decayed tree. Just over the place
of sepulchre, the earth upon the steep wall4f
the canon was loose, and the grim undertakers
scratched it down upon the trapper. Present-
ly, the grave was filled, the burial complete:
It appeared an ill way of dying, a melafr1
holy end to a merry life; but a lingering
death by disease, a wasting consumption, or a
loathsome epidemic, are really things more
dreadful. Pathaway's sympathies increased ;
a nervous excitement stole over him. The
few moments consumed in covering the mur-
dered man with earth were to him intolerably
long. Indignation and a terrible fever of imi-
patience preyed upon him. Every bough, and
rock, and.handful of earth that they cast 'on
him, seemed.pressing upon his own breasi~ in
vain, he attempted to quell his over-tive
sensibilities ; in vain, he recalled the traigseal
scenes he had witnessed on the prairies, and in
the recesses of the ranges ; he derived no con-
solation and fortitude from  the same. He
pressed his lheated forehead to the ground, to
cool it, and, closing his eyes, resolved not to
look again. In that position lie remained sone
time. Then he glanced down the gulch again.
It was empty; but there was the trapper's
grave, with that sickly, warning freshness u porn
it that always attaches to the newly-raised
f mound, and impresses one with mournfulness
unspeakable, especially when it is heaped over
our beloved. Ahl the fresh earth over a grave
says so plainly: "Man, you are mortal I"
Pathaway looked anxiously down the canon,
and saw the outlaws filing off to the Tight,

r.

I


so

PATHAWAY ; OR,. THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

1

through a narrow defile, the hindmost stagger-
ing beneath the weight of the dead trapper's
peltries. The gray hunter darted down into
the gulch, and, with his naked hands, began to
dig the earth from the body. A frantic zeal,
a terrible haste marked his movements. He
labored like one upon whose efforts depended
the matter of life and death. His face was
pale, his lips compressed, and perspiration
poured from his brow. A person, coming upon
im suddenly while thus employed, would have
pronounced him mad.                     .
He scattered the earth ; he hurled away the
stones ; he cast out the boughs and rotten
fragments of wood, and, grasping the body by
the shoulders, dragged it, with herculean
strength, from beneath the mass that yet re-
mained. Panting, he paused, glancing hur-
riedly about for water ; he saw a small stream
trickling down into the gulch above. He
seized the unconscious form, and carried it
there. He placed his hand upon the trapper's
heart; it beat--he lived!i He held hishead
under the descending rivulet, and let it fall
upon his face, which was covered with earth,
disfiguring every feature. The dash of the
water upon him made him gasp, and brought
back a portion of latent life. Pathaway
cleansed the dirt from his wound. 'The ball
had struck his head, near the occipital bone,
and glanced along the skull, benumbing and
suspending, for the time, all the functions of
life. He had sustained other injuries upon
various portions of his person, from the rocks
that were thrown upon him ; but Pathaway
doubted not that he possessed sufficient vi-
tality ultimately to recover.
The man's beard was quite long and heavy,
but he was much younger than the gray hunter
had at first thought. He judged that he was
about twenty-eight,- or maybe younger. His
features were strongly marked, and his frame
gave every indication of manlyhardihood. A
nearer view certainlygave Pathaway a more fa-
vorable impression of the man, increasing, also,'
that strange interest that had urged him to
such efforts for his resurrection and resuscita-
tion. He did not relax his exertions. Wiping
his soiled lips and beard, he poured some
spirit into his mouth from his flask. The
trapper's blood felt the grateful stimulant, and
revtved. His chest heaved ; and he moved his
limbs, opened his eyes, and sat up.
"How do you feel? Ain you not better ?"
asked Pathaway, gently.
.The man looked at him vacantly ; there
was no soul, no language, no comprehension, in
those orbs.
" The concussion has affected his brain ; his
mind is absent," muttered Pathaway, and un-
consciously put his hand to his own head, as
if the wound was there. He then resumed his
friendly ministrations ; but though the young
trapper evidently gained strength, no ray of
intelligence returned to illuminate his dull
face. Pathaway took off his own frock, and

V.

I

put it on him, and assisted him to arise. He
could stand without difficulty, but wanted that
reason which was necessary to guide his foot-
steps across mountains and prairies, as hereto-
fore.
The spectacle of his helplessness made the
gray hunter inexpressibly sad. He tried every
artifice to awaken his memory and arouse his
intellect, but without success. He elicited only
an idiotic stare or a childish smile.
" Poor fellow ! poor fellow ! I trust this will
be but temporary. What shall I do with him?
Providence has cast him upon-me, and I'll take
care of him. Yes, it was Providence that filled
me with such a fury of zeal to unearth him, and
save him from his horrible entombment. We
are watched over, even in the wilderness."
Pathaway led the trapper to a sheltered
spot, and making him a couch of boughs upon
the soft grass, laid him upon it, and spread his
own blanket over him; then sitting by his side,
watched him till he fell into a heavy sleep.
CHAPTER IX.
THE WOUNDED TRAPPER FINDS FRIENDS.
Pathaway awoke the wounded man at the
expiration of two hours. He had but little
fever, while his strength was not greatly im-
paired by his injuries. His benefactor killed a
prairie-chicken, and, roasting it, gave him such
portions as were tender and palatable, and least
iely to disturb the system. He obeyed the
hunter with the docility of a child, but gave
no indications- of returning reason. The hem-
horrage from his wound had been slight ; but a
closer examination showed a deep indentation
in the skull, which convinced Pathdway that
he could be no better, in a mental point of
view, without the aid of skillful surgery. , He
reared a temporary shelter, and passed the
long night \with his patient, watching every
symptom, and doing everything.that hislimited
means would allow for his comfort.
In the morning, still less fever remained, and
Pathaway determined to return with him, by
easy stages, to Nick Whifues' hut. He walked
very well. The birds and the sunshine pleased
him ; he heard with delight the songs of the
feathered choristers, and smiled when the
golden rays, warm and sportive, fell upon his
face. He muttered about rivers and moun-
tains, lakes and prairies, trappers and peltries ;
but there was no coherency in his wandering
fancies. Pathaway called his attention to the
lake as they passed it; he-stretched out his
hands, and manifested a momentary inter-
est, but it was evanescent as smoke.  He next
pointed to the timber, but with no better re-
sults. Despairing of drawing forth any signs
of intelligence, Pathaway pursued the way
toward Nick's hut, in a frame of mind far
from cheerful. It was past noon when lie
reached it ; and his disappointment was great
on finding it deserted. There it stood, bare
and inhospitable ; there was no one at the door
to give him a welcome, or light the friendly

f
8
Y
[ig
Yet
"a
ff
E-r
r
r
L
6
r
1

PATIIAWAY ; OR, THE:
cam p-fire. Nick had changed his quarters ; for
the free trapper, in dangerous neighborhoods,.
seldom camps many days in the same place,
and sometimes is compelled to seek. a new
camping-ground nightly.
Pathaway picked up a piece of birch bark
in the hut, with unique characters printed
upon it with charcoal, in crooked capitals :
GONE TO THE NOR TH. SEED SIGNS
OF A PISON DIFFIKILTY.
The execution of this rather vague an-
nouncement was such that Pathaway could
not repress a smile. Nick's early education
had clearly been of a hurried and imperfect
kind, which fact was sufficiently attested by
the zig-zag cut of his letters, and the-pecu-
liarity of his spelling. It was too late in the
day, and the wounded man was too much fa-
tigued for a new tramp, based upon instruc-
tions so meagre ; so the gray hunter made
preparations to remain there till the next day.
While he was thus employed, he heard the
baying of a dog, and looking out, saw Nick
approaching through the cottonwoods, mount-
ed, and attended by one of his dogs. It was
a pleasant surprise.
"I forgot somethin', and cote back arter
it," said the trapper, "and it's licky I did,
prehaps. Got back sooner'n you expected, I
reckon. Hillo ! who ye got there-one of gur
kind, I s'pose ?"
Nick dismounted, shook hands with Path-
away, then turning to the wounded trapper,
said:
" How'd 'e do, stranger ? You're welcome
to my but ; and 'tisn't mine, either, 'cause I
desarted it ; but you're safe here, and not al-
together safe, neither ; for there's a pesky
sight of danger hereabouts from both red and
white."
"4Mountains, beavers, otters, traps, and
lakes !" said the wounded trapper, with a
meaningless stare.                    '
"Jes' so, brother--jes' so ! That's clear
Ingin, and not so clear,"arter all. Been out
on your own hook, I allow ?" returned Nick,
with a puzzled look.
Horses, halters, and horse-stealers !" mut-
tered the trapper, latlessly.
"'Zaetly, mister ; it's all right, I'll be
bound, though I can't see the drift on't, by
mighty. Howsomnever, if you're disposed to
make gamut of me, I don't keer no great
about it, for they've had me in.the newspapers
down in the clearin's, and done a heavy busi-
ness with me in that line. I say, Pathaway,
what's the matter with the feller's eyes ? His
face has a gone-away look, I allow."
" He has fallen among thieves," responded
the gray hunter. He was shot at and robbed
in a canon."-
Pathaway related circumstantially the facts
of the ease, to which Nick listened with much
interest.-
"It's a cruel thing," he.said, shaking his

I

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                       31
head, " to rob the honest trapper of his hard-
earned gains ; but when murder is added to
robbery, it becomes a terrible thing. So this
poor critter has lost the light o' reason. It's
a mournful spettakle to be an idiot, and that
isn't jest the tarm, either ; but you know
what I mean, which makes it all the same.
Honest men allers understan' each other,
though the words mayn't all be fitted into
place like the bricks in a buildin'. I had a
relation that was a fool. And sich a fool as
he was !  0 Lord, yesI   He cried himself
to death for the moon ; but what he thought
it was, and what he wanted to do with it; I
dunno, by mighty ! _ Perhaps he 'magined
'twas sunthin' to eat ; I dare say !" added
Nick, reflectively, unconsciously lowering his
voice, "the poor, vacant critter thought 'twas
sunthin' to eat. An idiot, you know, loves
eating' better nor a wise man does his sweet-
heart."
The wounded man started, smiled sadly,,
then sang, in a voice inexpressibly plaintive,
the following words:     .
" My sweetheart was a prairie-flower-
She dwelt beside the flowing water ;
I stole by moonlight to her bower-
-'I loved a wandering trapper's daughter.
Oh, the trapper's daughter !
- Her eyes were like soft star-beams gleaming,
Her mouth was small, her lips were sweet,
Her face was ever on me beaming-
I fell, and worshiped at her feet.
Oh, the trapper's daughter !"
The poor fellow sang these simple words
with touching sweetness.
"The words sound nat'ral and sensible," ob-
served Nick, " but he hasn't got back yet.
It's mechanical; his mind has no mQ p-t- do
with it than the fiddle has to do with tnakin'
the music, when-it's' in the hands of a skillful
player. He's been in love, it 'pears, which
took hold on him powerful. Doctor Whiffles
had a case on't that nullified all his doctor-
stuff. 'Twas a woman~ and the case was of
three years' stannin', which made it--what
the fakilWt call--chronic. She lost a heap o'
flesh, and. in fack, parted with nighabout all
on't. She kept herself so wet up with cryin',
that she had to be wrung out every day as
reg'lar as sunrise. Her sobs was like the
soughin' of the wind through the defiles in
the mountains when there's a tempest. She
sung sich tetchin' ditties, that sev'ral of her
sisters was so melted that they never was
worth much arterwards. To cure her, the
doctor was obleeged to marry her himself.
'Twas amiazin' how she picked up her crumbs
arter that. She weighed two hunderd pounds
and up'ards the last time I seed her. To look
at her, you'd never knowed that her heart
had been broke."
"'Oh, the trapper's daughter--
Oh, the trapper's daughter !"
sang the wounded man, catching up the cho-
rus of his song, and prolonging it with his
strangely melancholy intonations.

tS
1
f
' ;y
i
5
: '
.e
r
r
1


c
t
t
.
6
_
t
,
i
}
t
i
2,
a
4
3
i
s
x
1
i
r
R
"
f

PATIAWAY ; OR, T.HE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

"iThat makes me feel bad, I swear to graci-
ous !"~ Then to Pathaway, with emphasis, and
gesticulating with his right haud : "This can't
go on; it must and shall be stopped! These
mountain robbers have had their way long
enough.   Nobody's safe-I a'n't, you a'n't,
and he isn't. We can't tell when, our turn'll
come. We may be shot down like bufferler
in the fust pass we comic to."
"You say truly," answered Pathaway, ear-
nestly. " These outrages must cease. This
man's misfortune appeals to me witli irresist-
ible . power ; it strengthens a purpose by no
means new. . The mysterious baniditti of
Trapper Valley must be traced to their ken.
nel,-and made. to feel that they cannot coin-
mit crime with- impunity, even in the wilder-
ness."
" They're too liy to work like 'honest trap-
persand hunters.,: They scorn the slow pro-
cess of trappin' beaver and otter, choosin' to
pounce upon the hard-eirne4 gains of others,
rather than encounter the dangers and toils of
the reg'lar business. But see ! lie's flushin'
-up. The worrinieit of walkin', together with
his wound and other injuries, has produced
fever, which mustn't be neglected. We'll put
him on to Shagbark, and be off."
" Shagbark ?" repeated Pathaway, inquir-
ingly.I
"1This fine animile !" responded Nick, strok-
ing - his horse's mane. " He's cfried me
through thick and thin, and he'll carry him.
For speed, nothin' can tetch him. ' Wouldn't
'magine it, would ye ? Notice thera legs-
look like pipe-stems, but they're powerful
strong, and move like drumsticks when you
git 'eni started. He's taken me.'from danger
rnore nor once; a nd it'll be asad day for us
both when: we. part, Coine, my, friend, we
want ye to ride., 'll giveye i helpia' hand
to mount. That's. it--quite strong, a'n't ye ?'
Now, take the reins-rail right  Now, we'll'
toddle along nicely."
The trapper, after being assisted to the
saddle, was visibly; pleased with the change.
It revived, for the:intant, old recollections.
"Horses and running water, green grass
and trees, prairies and !buffaloes. Bring up
the peltries. Where's the pistols ? Takce care
of the chasms there !" he muttered, then
looked wishfully at Nick, who replied, sooth-
ingly :
SiEverything's jest as you want it. hold
on fast, and I'll- lead the hoss---and IT won't
lead him, neither, for'he'll foller me-like a
.-o saying, Nicholas led the way, while Path-
away walked beside the trapper, to steady him
if his strength failed.,
Shagbark manifested great sagacity in going
down steep declivities and up rough ascent s;
never stumbling or making a misstep. If his
master-unconsciously got too far in advance,
lie admonished him of the fact by a low whin-
ny. As they went along, they saw a grizzly

bear perched upon a cliff, looking down upon
them. They passed beneath him unmolested,
while Smuggler, instead of manifesting fear
or a disposition to worry him, trotted quietly
along'at Nick's heels.' =Path way scrutinized
it sharply, but made no remark. To meet
Brinain that country was not an uncommon
occurrence, yet there'was something peculiar
in the fixed position of this one. Pathaway
grew more thoughtful; his gaze wandered
oftener to his guide-he was begirming to see
tn its, in 'the man worthy of study, and which
were fast awakening interest and curiosity.
Glancing backward for a parting view of the
bear, he saw   hio .clambering over dizzy
heights and close to the brinks of precipices.
Had, Nick been near enough, the gray hunter
would probably have called his notice to the
cool 'audacity of the animal, which kept in
sight till they reached the place of their des-
tination, and were greeted by the great voice'of
Misfortuneand the pleasanter one of Sebas-
tian, who, having heard the story of the
wounded trapper's calamity, manifested an
amiable disposition to render his condition as
comfortable as possible.  If the, youth had
never'before shown address and quickness, in
Pathaway's estimation he now manifested those
qualities.  c performed things' so deftly-
his touch toothed the couch of the unfor-
tunate so adroitly, and with such earnest good-
will and sympathy.
" The bpy'il do for him almost as well's a
woman," said'Nick, with pride. -"I've trained
him to be reg'lar 'handy about the camp.
Sich cooking' as: he'll do, and out o' iyothin,
neither, and not nothin' either, 'cause it's gin-
er'ly bufferler 'and other things, and not so
much other things as bufferler. It's a knack ;
some folks has knacks And some hasn't. Jes'
give him a little salt and a perarie-chicken,
and he'll nake a dish fit for "a president or a
sick ian ; and 'tisu't a dish, neither, for we
hia'n't got a dish, by mighty. .Don't own no-
thin' in the.housekeepin' line but a stew-pan
and a camp-kittle. But that'senough for him;
he'd make 'a turkle-soup in a piece o' birch-
bark if he on'y had the turkle. Don't foller
his legs round quite so sharp, stranger, 'cause
lie's iuther modest, and 'll think sunthin's the
matter of 'em."
"You seem   to be very fond of him, my
friend !" observed Pathaway, noticing the ad-
miring glances lie threw upon the boy.
'Yes, in part, in part !" quoth Nick, in a
matter-of-fact manner, "and not so much iii
part as. in other ways. Then," he added, par-
saigiit his former train of thought, "there's a
brile--you never see sich a boy for a brile."
The subject of these encpmimnis was seen to
avert his ace, ad .Pathaway thought he
ighed. Peralpsie overheard the flattering
things his friend was saying of him.
' File's so like my step-mother, who used to
'irile, and stew, and roast, and finally briled,
stewed, and roasted herself. into her grave.

$2

I
Ii

'91

,at

r,
3
f

T
3           '
14
,s
i
T
F
h


'
I'

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE
He can shoot an arrer, can Sebastian. He
can hit an objeck of consider'ble magnitude
at a short distance. He strikes a beautiful at-
titude when he shoots ; there's a good 'cal in
that, you know, for it brings out the nat'ral'
cemetary of the systum-also of the legs."
" The man ,has considerable fever, Uncle
Nick I" said Sebastian, approaching.
" I obsarved it, my lad, and I'm glad it's
fever instead o' consumption; ,for I know how
to treat a fever, and I don't consumption. I
know sartin roots and yarbs that are p'ison
on fever. I'll set right off arter 'em, and
we'll have 'em biled up.in a twinklin' I"
Nicholas took his gun and hatchet, and,
started on this benevolent mission. He came
back, staggering under a load of medicinal
plants, some of which had attained the size of
respectable bushes.
"I got a little more nor I wanted, jes' to
show a strong front to the inemy ; though we
musn't give him so much that the fever won't
have room to turn. A fever wants a little el-
bow-room, in course."
Talking in his genial and humorous way,
Nick assorted the remedies, and instructed
Sebastian how to prepare and administer
them, although his notions were rather exag-
gerate1 in regard to quantity-a fallacy which
Sebastian had much trouble in correcting.
But the plants, madeinto a decoction, and
given to the patient, really had a salutary ef-
feet. A gentle perspiration broke out upon
the surface of the body,'his restlessness gra-
dually subsided ;, and anon he slept peace-
fully, unconscious of himself and all the
world.
CHAPTER X.
TRAPPER VALLEY.
The next day, after the morning'meal, and
an earnest conversation with Sebastian, Nick
prepared to leave camp. Pathaway asked
him where he was .going, when he proceeded
to speak of Pontneuf; whose capture by the
outlaws, he affirmed, had occasioned him much
anxiety.
" Pm goin'," he went on to say, "to ex-
p.ore Trapper Valley-though I warrant it'll
be slow work.   There's a hunderd places
where a thousan' men could hide 'thout diffi-
kilty. The sides of the mountain are full of'
rifts and caves, which can be diskivered on'y
by s'archin' ; and when found, it would bother
one 'td go to 'em ag'in of a dark night."
"N iicholas," interposed Sebastian," you are
going'to expose yourself to danger. Do not-,
rashly put your life in the power of those.law-
less men."
" It's an errand of marcy, Sebastian. Think
of Pontneuf and his darter-especially of the
darter,". replied Nick, with a sigh of commis-
eration.
" I have thought, Uncle Nick," answered
Sebastian, quickly. "It is terrible I--it makes

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                     85
me shiver ! But you cannot reach her-I
know you cannot."
"It looks onpossible, and not onpossible,
neither-for chance favors folks a thousand
times when they don't expect it. If we should
despair and give up when a thing looks hard,
nothin' would be done, I allow. I knowed
an instance," he added, impressively, " where
a person e'enamost despaired ; but that indi-
vidooal waited, and he done a thing that'll al-
lers rejoice his heart--that'll be a comfort to
him-a life-long comfort.''
The youth took the trapper's hand, and re-
plied :
"It is a good and geperous spirit that
promptsyou. If I could attend you and share
the dangers, I wouldn't complain, Uncle Nick."'
Then to Pathaway, who was regarding this
scene with interest :
"I'm , obliged to take care of Uncle Nicho-
las-he'd run straight into danger if 'twasn't
for me-though, in a case of this kind, it don't
seem right to oppose him. T hope, sir, that
you'll not allow. him to go alone. Two, it
appears to me, would incur less risk than
one."
" Certainly I'll go," responded Pathaway.
It is a case that enlists my sympathy. When
woman is in danger, man must not pause to
reason,"
"He's a knowin' and a safe man,,but I'm
afeard to leave you alone, Sebastian. They've
diskivered iny old camp, and they'll find this,
Should they come while I'm gone, what would
becomeon ye?"
The youth's brown eheeka paled, and an in-
voluntary shiver shook his person.
" Clearly, he has a great horror of these
outlaws," remarked Pathaway, regarding the
boy closely.
"Yes," answered Niek, bstily; "he's
afeard of 'em, for they give-him'a right smart
fright,' once-though, fortinitly,,,he got away
from 'em by running' like an Ingin and he
didn't run, neither, for he was mounted on my
boss--and, come to' think on't, 'twasn't my
hoss, but his'n."
"A race for life ?" said Pathaway.
"It-,was; but he got away, as you see," an;
swered the trapper.
"Leavie. the dogs with me, and I shall do
very well," said Sebastian.
" Sartin, and I'll try and not be gone long.
Take good care of the sick man and don't be
afeard.  'Tisn't for to Trapper Valley, and
one orb oth of us 'II come back afore night."
" Then go; 'the dogs will take ca'e of me,
and I can shoot very well, too, you know."
Nick started once or twice, going back as
often to give additional advice or instruction ;
fairly 'on the way, he seemed to -lose his anx-
iety for'-the youth, which gave place to the
excitement of his new and hazardous under-
taking. He was not very sanguine that he
should be successful, but was confidentathat a
careful survey of the Valley might shed ad-

4'f 4   'S

"4 -. A

r
,  ,
; .
.-
,
t
t
.R
. ;

: '.
1
nt ,         .

" .


86   '      PATHAWAY;- OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.7

ditional light upon its mysteries. On this oc-
casion he intended to make the attempt in
open-daylight, and'trust to his experience and
sagacity for eluding observation and detection.
They arrived at the Devil's Gate without
accident, having made the necessary descent
with that'degree of cautiousness that circum-
stances demanded. Nick crossed the portals
-of the gate, followed by Pathaway-who was
particularly struck with the formation of the
place, especially the basaltic shafts and the
tuuel-like passage. Having encountered be-
fore the difficulties of this entrance, Nick had
now less trouble than his companion in over-
coming them. They reached the boiling
spring, which Nick named the "Devil's Camp-
Kettle."
Pursuing their way, they scaled great rocks,
swung themselves across chasms, and Inally
reached the stream of water spoken of by the
Shoshond. Crossing this on the stones, they
found themselves in a strip of timber of con-
siderable extent. The Valley was not very
wide at that point ; but farther on, it stretched
out to the right and left.
Nick suddenly stopped, and Pathaway, look-
ing up, saw a grizzly bear a few yards. in ad-
vance of them. The bear turned around and
growled, manifesting a decided disposition to
dispute their progress.
"It looks like the one we saw lhst night,"
said Pathaway.
" Bears are as thick as blackberries here-
abouts, at this season of the year," said'Nich-
olas.,
"This is not a very safe place for bruin,"
said the gray hunter, scrutinizing the bear,
closely
" I now it, mister ; but the critters haven't
got no discreetion. It must be a young bear,
or it 'd never make.its way to TrapperValley.
But, then, the varmints are good for climbin',
and can scramble up the mountain a pesky
sight quicker'n you nor I can. But see : he
don't 'pear:willin' to-let us- pass, so we'll 'es'
turn to the right and shift over toward t'other
side."
" A very dogmatic bear," rejoined Patha-
way.
'Yes ; and ,I told him so t'other day. . Sez
I: ' You're nothin' but an overgrown dog.'
Pathaway smiled.,
Th'e trapper struck off in the manner pro-
posed, leaving bruin to enjoy his supremacy.
" Thatresembles your tame bear," Pathaway
remarked.
" Summat.-summat," quoth Nick, careless-
ly; "but lie's a good 'eal bigger ; and not
bigger, either, but a size smaller. The var-
nmmt that I had b'longed to an Ingin friendo'
mine, who took him off the Lord on'y knows
where."
" I perceive that I was mistaken !" said
Pathaway, drily.
-T   parties had proceeded about a hundred
rods   en a strange spectacle met their sight.'

It was a man, mounted upon a horse, his hands
tied behind him, and a rope about his neck,
which rope was fastened to a limb overhead.
They hastened to examine this singular ob-
ject. That the person had been in this posi-
tion a considerable time, was quite obvious.
The horse, pinched with hunger, had gnawed
the grass down to the roots, and eaten the
lower branches of the trees as far as he could
stretch his neck. The poor animal stood with
head depressed, presenting a most melancholy
figure, with his distinctly-defined ribs and
gaunt outlines.  The unfortunate individual
on his back was in-a still sorrier plight. His
face was haggard, his eyes bloodshot, and his
expression as hopeless as despair could render
it.
" En 'nom Dieu have pity on me, gentle-
men !" he exclaimed, in a faint voice. -
Pathaway sprang forward and cast the noose
from his neck. The revulsion from horror to
hope was too great ; the man gasped-two hot
tears coursed down his ghastly cheeks, and he
fell senseless into the arms of the hunter, who
immediately placed him upon the ground,
while Nick ran for some water, which he
brought in his cap and dashed upon him.
" He's- gone, I do believe !" said the trap-
per. 4"And that poor animile under the tree
has stood stock still in his tracks two whole
days, I'll be bound ! See how his feet have
worn into the site by a constant takin' 'em up
and puttin' 'em down! Now, isn't that what ye
call patience and obedience to the will o' man ?
I'll wager my rifle that this poor feller's his
master, and that they've growed attached to
each other by long companionship. For
faithfulness, give me a hoss, I say ! I love a
hoss, by gracious !"
" I'm with you, heart and soul ! The horse
is is noble animal. Heavens ! what tortures
both man and beast have suffered during the
long, dreary, and frightfully monotonous
hours they have been here !" answered Patha-
way, with warmth.
" He don't come out on't. 'Twas too sud-
dint-the relief was. It has done his business
quicker nor the rope."
"His heart beats-there's a tremulous mo-
tion of the pulse-a slight swelling of the
throat-a faint flush upon his hollow cheeks.
His eyes unclose-pour some water upon his
lips."
The man came back to consciousness with
a sobbing sigh, and a thrill and quiver of
the limbs, as the first wave of memory dashed
upon his brain.
"He musn't see the horse nor the tree," said
Pathaway, considerately.
" I allow not. The sight would bring back
too forcibly the recollection of his awful diffi-
kilty., I'll lead the faithful hes to the water
while you 'tend to his master.'" q
" Go-on, and I'll carry the unfortunate fel-
low in my arms till he is able to help himself
a little!"

I,
I

Pathaway lifted the man with case, and bor
him after Nick until he had reached the stream
by which time he was quite conscious. Th
hunter then mixed some spirits and water
which the sufferer swallowed with famishin
avidity. A hard biscuit that Nick had in hi
pocket, softened in the -stream, was then giver
hmn, which he devoured with that greedy
haste that characterizes every stage of starve
tion. The horse, meanwhile, was quenching
his thirst with the clear, running water.
No more-no more !" said Nicholas. "To
much on't, arter a starve, isn't no better fo
hosses nor 'tis for men.".-,
Still compassionate and true to his kindly
nature, the trapper divided his remaining bis-
cuits with the horse ; and surely the animal
was grateful-he expressed it in his eyes and
ears, and in the manner in which he-rested his
neck upon Nick's shoulder and whinnied.
" Don't talk to me about animiles !" cried
N ick. " I've studied 'em, and I know 'em.
I've summered and wintered with'em ; feasted
and starved, slept and waked with 'em; tend-
ed 'em when they's sick, and cussed be the
mnan who beats his hoss !"
He struck himself upon the hip, and looked
upward, confident that strong language would
be forgiven on such a subject, then his face
beamed mildly and lovingly upon the horse,
and he thought how many miles he had been
carried by his brethren.i
Pathaway began to admire Nick Whiffles--
there was tenderness and simplicity in him-
and those virtues cover a multitude of human
sins. He who cannot feel for a beast is a beast.
".The friend of the hoss and the dog is the
friend of everybody. He who abuses one or
t'other, will abuse all human kind. Them
is my sentiments,,by mighty I"
" Mon Dieu!" said the owner of the horse.
Is that you, Neck Wheefles, or is this one
grand dream-one ver' great deception ?"
"Pontneuf, I swear to gracious!' I didn't
know ye-the. condemned hanging' has took
the nat'ralness all out of ye !"
The voyageur grew pale at the mention of
hanging, and nervously put his hand to his
neck, around which was a purple;line distinct-
y defined, the cord having been drawn straight,
so that the least motion to the right or left, or
any direction, produced a degree of strangula-
"I heerd about your misfortin, and he and I
ventured into the Valley to see if we could git
any clue of your whereabouts. I'm afeard to
ask ye about Nanny. 'Tisn't a subject that ean
be pleasant to ye. But there'll be time eriough ;.
you can tell the whole story arter we git ye
out o' this condemned onnat'ral place.'But
we must leave the hoss, though I hateto have
ye part with the critter, because he didn't part
with you when martin' would a been sartin
death 'to ye. There isn't no help for't, :but
there's plenty d' gras and water, and 'tien't
like leaving' him to starve."

, V.
e    Nicholas took Pontneuf upon his shoulders
a, and carried him across the stream.
o " Put me down, mon ami; you s'all take hold
r, my arm, and I will walk. My legs is ver' weak
g and cramp ; I set so long-so 'ver'. long I I
s zank you, Monsieur Neek Wheefles."
a The trapper placed Pontneuf upon his feet,
y but his limbs were sostiff and paralyzed that
- he could make no progress ; so Nick carried
him again. Looking back after making their
way a, considerable distance, Pathaway per-
o ceived, much to his surprise, that the voy-
r ageur's horse was following, which circum-
stance he communicated to its owner.
"Bon cheval! bon cheval ! he fuller me every-
where as I s'all go. He will riot leave me ne-
l vare, nevare !" said Pontneuf, earnestly.
" The critter'll break his neck if he isn't
pesky keerful. It's about as much as humans
can do .to steer theirselves over these rocks.
Hold on to me tighpt, old boy, and I'l git ,ye
outso' this little diflikilty afore-long,, Here's
the Devil's Camp-Kittle, and a few steps ahead
is Devil's Gate."
Assisted by Pathaway, and lightening the
task by his cheery reniarks, Nick emerged in
safety from the dark tunnel, and placed his
friend on firmer and smoother footing. While
resting, they heard the horse neigh, and pre
sently the creature appeared uninjured, ap-
parently, by slip or fall.
Pontneuf staggered to meet his favorite, and
throwing both arms around his neck, hugged
him, and shed tears ; while the animal returned
these caresses by low, expressive whinnies that-
could not be misinterpreted.
" His bones begin to show," quoth Nick,
"but bones wont hurt a hoss, as long as they're
in jints ; but if they's:all in one pieee, the crit-
ter would be stiff-like and onpliable."
Pathaway turned inquiringly to Nick, but
the latter's peculiar visage was so quiet and
honest, that he was puzzled to know whether
he was in jest or earnest. Each, taking an arm
of the voyageur, helped him up the ascent, and
in half.an hour they were clear of the myste-
rious precincts of Trapper Valley. Pontneuf
glanced back at it with a shudder. He was
thinking of what he had suffered-and of his
daughter Ninon.   A   thousand 'distressing
thoughts went whirling through the voyageur's
brain ; he pictured his darling girl in the out-
law lair, subjected to indignities that wrung his
paternal nature. He fell upon his face and,
gave himself up to emotions that were not dis-
honorable to him as a man and a father. -,He
was permitted to indulge in this outburst of
grief without interruption. Calmer for the in-
ternal storm, and his spirit washed and pu'-
fied, as it were, with tears, he arose.
must pardon ie ver'.much! I cry like one
child. I nevare -was so weak, nesare!? Oh !
ma jolie Ninon!"'
" You are understood-you are understood,"
said Pathaway, sympathetically, the steriess


I

38

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

that had rested Upon his features for the last of which was relieved by stripes of black. She
few moments, relaxing,                    wore upon her head a dark cap with long, red
wSh's wort  ryin' for, the gal is, but we plumes, that swayed gracetullyto and fro to
must try and do eomethin' better nor to cry for the: motions of the body. Her hands were
hit though Ithink more on ye, Pontneuf, for covered with black gauntlets, but whether those
doiii' it. But we must go on; Sebastian will hands were small, Pathaway was too' far dis-
be expectin' us, and I don't keer to expose the taut to determine; neithercould he decide re-
lad tofright and 'danger. He's young, you  specting the beauty of her features, but was in-
know to Iathaway-" the boy is amazin' lined to believe them  handsome. Whether
young."                                   Nick's eyes were sharper, or whether he was
They resumed their way, and were passing  more partial to the sex, we do not know ; but
sres     mentioned, when theibi- he afirmed with the greatest confidence that
tu grizzly bear was described in a mesquit she was as "pooty as a pictur !" He shook his
qit   uite near them.                   head as he said it, and looked inquiringly at
h    e cimednath. y, "that myste- then voyageur, who was seized with a sudden
"                h rio "e x bear  again edPIa", m'   fit of trembling, and  laid  closer to  the  ground.
rThe bear arose straight upon his hind feet,  The men who followed in the train of the
and moved his fore paws as if swimming in the young womn were ten in number, of a hybrid
airn The circumstance struck the voyageur as appearance. In short, they had that rough
bir   Thextraordinaer.                   and swaggerin air that marked them of law-
beFlat vero your faces inhewormwood!" cried  less habits and adventurous fortunes. Their
aNick,*ith unusual vehemence, or  suiting the equipments and  habiliments corresponded
action to' themandatestretched the French- with those that Pathaway had seen in the
matupon the earth with unceremonious quick- canon.
nea. "There'sathe unlucky hons !" le mut-   "'Tis Carl6ta I" whispered the Frenchman,
tired. " There    d       yin a disturbed manner; "Carlta, the outlaw's
Domuchan not give yourself some pain; I can  daughter."
mang   ghi       oaritelnf Down,  aphnis,  "I thought so," muttered Nick. "I was.
downy" said the Frenchman, rising upon his eenampst sartin they was birds of a feather.
elbow.                                    There must be another entrance to the Valley,
Fhe horse immediately sank upon his knees, accessible by both man and beast."
the upon his shoulders, as if in the act of  " You are right, mon frere. There is an en-
rollingthen quietly settled upon his side, and trance far below ; they took me through it,
was    still with his large,'brown eyes fixed  but it was in the night, and ver' dark. We
guiea                                 followed what they called the Trapper Trace.
on his master.   e" whispered Pathaway. Then, le diable! who s'all know where we
'YhNt did you seed ik.  '          went?"    ,
Yothin'," answered Nik.added the hunter.  Carlta end her followers were now hidden
'iNo," replied Nicholas, "I didn't hear nor from view. The parties arose, from their re-
see nothing' neither, but I know there's diffi- cumbent position, and pursued their way to-
kilte ahead, if we don't look sharp. I can tell ward Nick's new camp.
by my feelin's when there's dangerun the neigh-
borhood; and not by my feen's, either, so              CHAPTER XI.
much as  by other things."                          SEBASTIAN ias VISiTOxtS.
athaway lifted hihhead carefully to take a  After the departure of Nick and Pathaway,
seacndlook at the bear, but he had disap- the wounded trapper arose ; and Sebastian led
secon 0   abhyaa                       him  out' into the sunshine, in the golden
heard the clattering of hoofs, brightness of which he still manifested a child-
an after waiting in a state of suspense about ish leasure. There was a large tree just back
five minuts,  a  y of horsemen came into  of the camp, beneath which the youth spread
fivefro minutes a party o quarter, and rode on- Nick's blanket, and upon whi  his patient
ward ,to the east in a line paraelwith Trap- reclined.  He gazed up into the sky 'with
perValley Theypa sedpwithin ten rods of strange curiosity, and at every object around
erck ale  hy passed       thu afford- him, as if they were new revelations, and had
cda good opportune forobservation. The butnow burst upon his senses. Cool breezes,
most striangt u  m - ofohe group was a young  wafted from the mountain-sides, loaded with
woman, whoor  e with peculiar ease and bold- the breath of trees and flowers, swept gently
ness,mand, in fact, took the lead of the caval- across his face, refreshing him with their balm-
cae, flei dress was of a characters uncom- mess, moving the dark locks noon his tem-
cnan, that it is a matterof difficulty to describe ,ple. His  ast world had faded from  his
it    h but i   t was picturesque, with a memory, and the one he now lived in was in.
tcbthofewilderness wildness. The person of fantile and full of novelty. The past, with
th female eestrienne was not large, but him, was dim, fragmentary, and chaotic, like
hpefy and astreeable to the eye. From the  one's recollections of the scenes of infancy and
w   t upward, her figure was distinctly outlined  half-forgotten childhood.  Yet there must
byher elesefittinchabit of red cloth, the glare have been fitful flashes of his former existence

S
I:r

'yE
t
x, ,
7a
r
"i
'
.t
:%
. {
.¢i+;
;q
T

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE
among mountains and streams, upon lakes and
prairies, and of a love that, at some period,
had absorbed his thoughts, and influenced the
actions of his life ; for Sebastian, as he re-
turned to the camp, heard him singing :
" My sweet-heart was a prairie-flower-
She dwelt beside the flowing water;
I stole at midnight to her bower-
I loved a wandering trapper's daughter
Oh ! the trapper's- daughter !"
The words and the plaintive voice affected
the youth. He sighed, and tears started to
his eyes. His breast heaved like a woman's.
There was much tenderness in the boy. Pos-
sibly, the voice was like one he had heard
somewhere ; who knows? There are a thou-
sand things that make us sad without our
knowing why. Sometimes a single tone makes
us thrill. Why is it? Because it connects"
us mysteriously with the past.   '
How inexplicable is that passion which even
the extinction of reason cannot smother ; that
will break out like hidden fire, glow up a mo-
ment with -a touch of its former fervor, and
then die away like the transient flame of a
wisp of burning flax!,
The mournful chorus followed Sebastian to
the hut : " Oh ! the trapper's daughter !"
" Wondrously like!' murmured the lad.
"The same mouth ; the same reflective eyes
and massy brow ; and," he added, thoughtful-,
ly, " has loved a trapper's daughter!"
The boy fell into a; it of musing; it became
him, too ; for his face had a touching beauty,
rendered yet more beautiful by the drooping
wing of Melancholy.
Brightening, by-and-by, he called the dogs
and fed them--talking to them, meanwhile,
as if they were creatures. capable of conmpre-
hending human speech.        V,
"'Smuggler, you are over-modest. Take
that bit ; it is for you. Misfortune, you are
overbearing ;tyou are what, among men, is,
called a tyrant. Eat what I give you, and be
content. You have a bad name, sir---but lit-
tle betters than your former one.; though Ca-
lamity and Misfortune mean much the same
thing. I wish uncle Nick would still call you'
Calamity; for I like not to be followed by a
dog called Misfortune--a dog that follows- a
great many people. Old friends are you and
Nicholas ! He has told me a great many sto-
ries about you--how faithful you have been
to him, and how many.'condemned little diffi.'
kilties' you both got into and got out of,. You
don't look like-an old'dog, either. And as for
beauty-ah ! you're not handsome, sir-you're
not handsome ! You are ,shaggy, and look
sour, and never wag your'tail on anybody but
Kek and me. But thou art a very honest
dog-a very honest dog, indeed !" .
" Wah ! wah !"                's
It was a rough voice that uttered these
sounds-a voice that made Sebastian turn
with a convulsive start. Two men entered the
hut-Ben Joice and Zene Beck-who, though

I ,

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                      89
often biekerug and quarreling were kindred
natures, and hunted in couples.
"Ingin boy--ialf-breed--alone in cam
eat him up-swaller him whole. Ugh! ugh!"
added Ben Joice, imitating the Indian style of
communication, and assuming a threatening
aspect for the purpose of playing upon the
lad's fears, who drew back toward the dogs,
and stood motionless as a statue.
" Young-tender-build fire-roast him.,
Wah !" continued Ben, making a horribly ugly
face.
Zene Beck, perceiving that Sebastian seemed
ready to fall down with terror, burst into a
loud laugh.
" White men-great chiefs--might, war-
riors-half-Ingin boy prisoner-- o wit us-
walk prairies-slow fre-burn--baim-wa-wa I"
added Ben.
"There ! Stop, Ben,.or you'll frighten the
little yaller varmint to death."' Then to Se-
bastian: "Fly round, you half-breed saawn,
and cook somethin' to eat. 'There's a piece o'
bufferler ; knife it off in a minute and puti it.
to the fire," said Zene Beck.
"Not too fast. Who keeps camp ?" said
Ben.
Sebastian tried to -speak, but at first his
voice was so low as to-be inaudible.
"Speak up, you chicken! !What's the mat-
ter, eh ? Don't ye know anything ?" groped
Ben, making an ominous rattling"with his w'ea-
pons.
" Nick Whiffles !" said Sebastian, distinctly.
Joice and Beck exchanged glances. It was
clear that they did not relish this information.
Zene scowled and shook his head.
" Pooh ! pooh!" exclaimed Joiee. " Ain't
afeard of a name, be ye ? Don't care nofe
for Nick Whiffles.nor I do for a bufferlercualf.
Let's sarch round and see if he's got anything
drinkable 'bout the primises."
"I advise you not to meddle much among
Uncle Nick's things," said sebastian, whose
emotions did not appear to arise from a re"al
spirit of cowardice.
"Zene, masticate that little yaller boy!.
Bone him-bolt him! I'l. take a peep undr
this pile o' boughs, and in the corners gier'ly,
Sieh critters as this lank Nick Whifes alters
keep some choice sperrits agin acidents."
Joice went feeling- about in every corner of
the camp, and finally -lighted upon a keg of
'whisky, which Nick had kept Carefully for ur-
gent occasions. He gave a loud whoop at this
discovery, with along addition of erabbed In-
dian, which was finally choked offly a stream
of the much-prized liquor, which went down
his throat with that peculiar sopnd character-
istie of drinking from such a vessel. After a
frightful draught, he passed the keg to Beek,
smacked hia lips, drewthe sleeve of his hunt-
ing-shirt across his beard, and having enjoyed
the flavor a moment in silence, asked  -
tian   Where's he gone ? When'll he come
back ?"


PATHAWAY ; Or, TILE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

Tnderstailding him to refer to Nick, Sebas-
tian replied that he would return soon.
Thenawe must hurry up. Fix the fire and
g0 @eoQkin'. you smoothed=skinned half-and-
half I Step quick, too. I cut a young Ingin's
ears oi once for not steppin' quick enough."
"Don't threaten me," answered Sebastian,
pointing at the dogs.
"Bah I 'Speet I'm  afeard of a couple o'
Pupil?  I've fit with grizzly bears, I have;
clinched right in with 'em on equal tarnis,
with no weepons but my teeth and nails, I'll'
take the varmints by the scruff of their necks,
and hold 'em up as I would a couple o' kittens,-
and knock their heads together wounded hard,
too !"
" That dog"--pointing to Misfortune, whose
back was bristling, and whose eyes were flam-
ing with mischief-"but waits my command
to tear; you in pieces !" answered Sebastian,
with sudden sprit.,
" iliti-to !y , My son John !" exclaimed
Ben, tith1 znueh ffeected humor, but prudent-
Iji 4lling ack a little from the neighborhood
of. isfortune.
'Ehe -homely cuss does look, ugly," said
'Zee, setting down th keg and -retreating,
also. 'ton ftlet's make a row till we've had
our grub, Artere *0git through with that,
we'll 0ok roe  d for the spies ; and I warn ye,
afyejband, thatI'll stan! no gammon about the
division."
As it happened, Zene placed-the keg upon
th' spot where ,oth'had previously laid their
iies. The dogs, as if by mtual agreement,
seeing their master's, property endangered,
pted.themselves bytheyeg, one on each' ide,
sfortuneoeruchiung dpeetly upon he rifles.
the rifian-trappers did not observe this nve-
pient at "h  time, nor did they see Sebastian
When homade a motion toward'them with his
w'want something to eat; I haveno.
Ae"okto cooking it, provided you will be.
quiet. Give ineyoirn hunting-lknife"-to Joice
-"and I'll out, some nice slices from this
hu'mp:'
.he"fellow threv hi henting-kirfe at Sebas-
tiaws fee, lsojlieked it tm, and after'sawing
away at 1iin p afewimnutes; complained
that it ras' ull, and 'aked Jelk for his; the
latter gave hinmite haprement, growling at his
$     sitess. Itexelen cut the  ett'gtuic kly,  it,
did.offuatiftheidtves.:!e ad   ssed him-
self to the :task Masigned him with seeming
alderity, and his lawless and uninvited guests
were ' aedify' 'einpployed in masticatinig large
and deicious tteaks of bufflol6 humep. Pres-
ently, -at a natural consequence; they grew
thn'sty ; and Ben arose to look for the keg of
Whisky, and saw two sets of threatening eyes
fled upon him; while the vessel that con-
talked the devoted treasure was lying between
thet.

CHAPTER XII.
WHICH TREATS OF VARIOUS MATTERS.
The drenching draught that Ben Joice had
swdllowed was operating ' upon' his brain,
-arousing'what was vicious within hiin, making
him valorous, boastful, and ready to quarrel
with whoever or whatever might be disposed to
take offence eAthis conduct. He stared at the
dogs with stupid wonder, then with fierce and
fast kindling ire. He took a hesitating and ex-
perimental'step foi'ward, but the prestige of the
dog Misfortnne -became so ominous that he
paused, doubting the propriety ofa farther ad-
vance. 'Finding that he could use his tongue
with less danger than his feet. he emptied upon
them from hislawless mouth a torrent of invec-
tive of which persons of his type only are nias-
ter ; but which, so far from intimidating his
canine opponents, served but to inflame their
ferocity. They arose warily to their feet, and
displayed their teeth in concert.
" Don't provoke them, if you value life !"
said Sebastian, warningly.
Joiee stepped back; brimming with wrath.
To, rob a 'wild, free trapper of his whisky,
especially when under its influence, is to give
mortal offence. His keen and whetted appe-
tite. longs for the maddening potion, and
brooks not patiently the thwarting of his de-
sires. Benifelt in.his belt for a pistol, but dis-
covered, to. his chagrin, that the weapon was
not there.
'Give re your pistols, Zene, and I'll fix
them ere brutes quicker'n an Ingin can take a
Akblp I"
Joiee stretched his hand backward without
.taking his eyes from the dogs.
"Left 'em at camp," answered Zene. "Bill
Brace wanted 'em'."
"Curse -the luck ! I left mine, too. That's
alles the way; when you want a thing you
hadn't got it. Look at them confounded pups,
will re+ They're layin' right on our weepons,
and thete's that keg' o' sperrit right atween
'em."
"Pups! precious nice pups! bull-dogs, I
should say. Now look here, Ben.; I've heerd
of Nic'k'Whiffles'- dogs. That savagerous look-
in' trieis the same critter that he used to call
Calainity, I'll bet' two hoss-loads o' peltries !
lIe's An: aWful varmint, and I shouldn't care to
tackle' hinif I : had forty pistils.  Hillo !
'where's my -khiife '"
Zene felt for his favorite weapon.
"You little mixed-up Ingin heathenswhere's
my knife-?" he asked, turning threateningly to
Sebastian,who 'had edged toward the dogs, and
now stoodbeSide them.
" A trick! ta trick I" cried Joice, furiously.
" Toss 'em here, you traitor ! Don't play with
the grizzly's claws, 'less you want to be tore to
pieces."
Ben swelled out his chest, scowled, and dis-
torted his mouth to subdue the boy with fear ;
but he quietly held up the weapons in his right

40

%k
1 "
i  f
'f   r
' 3'

J  '

O
'5
L-4
mA
td
b
5,

r
c

1'


 r
s                              C"  'Y
f.
r
r   r
1 ,'Sr
.is
{3
n
alt{Y
Tiff ;      .
Kf
          5
a

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE]
hand, saying, with a calmness that took them
by surprise :
" Attempt to take them, and I'll launch
these dogs upon you like lightning ! I have
only to exclaim, sharply, ' down with the
brutes!' and they dart at you like panthers."
Ben Joice puffed the breath slowly from his
dilated chest, stared a moment at Sebastian,
and swallowing his rage,"went slowly back to his
meal. Though baffled, he was not conquered,
and as he sent installment after installment into
that craving gulf, the stomach, he growled be-
tween the mouthfuls, leering at the youth from
under his beetling brows in a manner that
boded no good.
Presently he began to talk with Zene in a
fashion calculated to terrify the listener. His
companion fell into his vein, and as the liquor
worked more potently, they told frightful
stories, and boasted of their lawless exploits in
the mountains ; of bloody feuds with brother
trappers ; of unprovoked encounters with the
Indians, and finally of robberies and assassin-
ations in the lonely passes, closing with an un-
feeling allusion to the man they had shot in the
caion.
" We'd had a fine time at euttin' and slash-
in' if Cap'n Dick hadn't interfered," remarked
Joice. "A  devil of a boy. is Cap'n Dick !
He'll have his own way, if it costs a man or
two."
" Don't talk of our quarrel; because you's in
the wrong, Ben. I've been sorry, sometimes,
that we did that. - A smart trapper was An-
drew Jeanjean. I knowed him several years
ago. He 'peard a hearty, honest chap, allers
quiet enough, if you minded your business and
didn't ineddle with his'n. I b'longed to a bri-
gade with him a short time, and that was the
way I happened to know him. We had a lit-
tle trouble once, for he usedd me of takin'
beaver and otter from his traps, which," added
Zene, ingenuously, " I sartinly did. I told him-
he lied, when he knocked me down without
ceremony.\ If he hadn't done that, I don't
think he'd be sleepin' down in the canon."
"Bah! there allers was a white stripe in
you. You must l'arn to look upon these things
as matters of business. We're the lords o' the
sile, and all that don't b'long to our jolly boys
is our prey, and must pay tribute to us. A
conscience, Zene Beck, is a useless piece o' lum-
ber to be totin'. about in the mountains." Then
turning his dogged eyes to Sebastian, added,
still addressing Zene : "I'll git ye to go out,
and dig a hole to put that sparrow-legged boy
in."
The sparrow-legged boy, although very pale,
was more self-possessed than could have been
anticipated at the outset, and did not appear
to heed this sinister observation. It must not
be supposed that the anger of Joice had cooled ;
on the contrary, their villainous conversation
had excited and rendered it more dangerous,
though, perhaps, less impetuous. In fact, both

Y   _,
a
i
1

1
, r'
t 5.
!;  ,
- r,
3F'

n           r'
,
.
i,"
Z
i
t

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                       43
the ruffians were racking their brains for an ar-
tifice or expedient by which to free themselves
from their awkward dilemma.
"Poor Jeanjean !" said Beck, perceiving that
this topic affected Sebastian." I dreamed about
him last night. But 'twas in the way o' busi-
ness, as you say ; and arter all, it don't make no
great difference whether we pop over a buffaler
or a man.--Yah ! yah !"
Zene Beck suddenly thrust his head in the
direction of Sebastian, and making a horrible
face, perpetrated the last exclamations in a
style that would have startled one unused to the
freaks of free trappers. The boy recoiled.
* Wah ! wah !" vociferated Joice, with an ex-
plosiveness that was yet more alarming.
A slight thrill ran over the boy, but he
grasped the knives more firmly.
There was a rustling of leaves, a crackling of
twigs -breaking 'beneath footsteps. A pale,
haggard face presented itself at the door ; the
eyes were large, fixed, and expressionless. It
was the wounded trapper. The bandage had
slipped from his head, and there were fresh, red
stains upon his hair around the wound.
The features of the ruffians blanched with
horror. Believing that they saw before them
the ghost of the murdered trapper, they sprang
through the side-of the camp as if its frail walls
were pasteboard, and ran from the spot as if
pursued by an avenging angel. Sebastian
heard them bounding away with the speed of
hunted buffaloes, and clasping his brow with
his hands, stood motionless a long time. When,
at length, he looked up, the wounded man had
not changed his attitude, nor his stony vacancy
of eye and face.
By-and-by he timidly approached the dogs,
and as they did not repel his -advances, he sat
down by Smuggler, stroked his glossy coat
with childlike satisfaction and curiosity. The
instinct of the animals told them that Andrew
Jeanjean was one to be dealt gently with. Oc-
casionally he paused, as if a laggard ray of
reason had overtaken him, but could find no
fitting entrance to the temple of Understand-
ing. Usually, when this occurred, he mutter-
ed, and sang snatches of " The Trapper's
Daughter."
Sebastian, having in a measure recovered
from his trepidation, looked out anxiously for
Nick ; but perceiving no welcome sign of his
coming, consoled himself as best he could, un-
der the circumstances.
"It's not time, yet," he said. "Trapper
Valley is a long walk from here."  Anon he
added, complainingly. "Am I never to lose
sight of those fearful men ? They pass before
me like spectres. Their appearance revives
recollections that fill me with terror. But I
must struggle to be, brave and, cheerful on
Nick's account as well as my own. Kind, quaint
Nick ! His presence makes me feel safe, and
sometimes content-almost happy. And why
not quite happy ?" he continued, amusingly.

t


PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.     45

The .youth stopped, as if to find an answer
to this question. He went on :
"Then comes this man Pathaway. What
shall I say of this man Pathaway ?"
Sebastian was troubled. This query per-
plexed' hin, apparently, more than the pre-
vious one. He stood with clasped hands and
bent head, thinking of it a long time; then he
paced slowly back and forth under the trees
before the camp, pursuing, perhaps, the same
train of thought, which was finally interr-upt-
ed by the return of Nick and Pathaway, ac-
companied by the French voyageur.
4"What's the diffikilty, little 'un ?" inquired
Nicholas, glancing about curiously. "Been
nmakin' a holein the side o' the camp, hain't
ye? That's to let more oxygin in, I s'pose."
"I've had visitors, Nicholas," answered Se-
bastian, with a perceptible shiver. "Unwel-
come guests, I assure you-Ben Joice and Ze-
nass Beck. They revived such-"
"Yes, I understan' !" interposed Nick.
"They've frightened ye about to death, I'll be
bound. I wish I'd been here, by mighty!
Wouldn't they ketehed it ? Wouldn't they got'
sunthin' ?" he added, raising his voice and his
hands at the same moment, " wouldn't they got
sunthuin' that they never got afore, and wouldn't
never hadl ro need on ag'in ? Did they hurt
you, sonny? Did they lay a finger on ye,
unbug? If they did, jes' say the word, and
my head sha'n't- touch blanket ag'in till the
mean skunkshave got their desarts. Where
was Smuggler ? Where, on airth was Misfor-
tin?"
"Present and faithful. They behaved nobly.
They've been a credit to you, Uncle Nick.
Look and satisfy yourself."
Sebastian pointed to the keg and the trap-
per's rifles.
The whole truth suggested itself to Nick at
once. His kindly countenance beamed benev-
olently upon his canine friends.
"I have observed," said Pathaway, "that
you display singular tastein the names of your
dogs and Horse."
Although -the gray hunter addressed this re-
mark to Nick, his attention was fixed upon Se-
bastian with a wondering, perplexed intensity-
that was almost painful._
" Yes," answered Nick, mildly, "I have my
idees. everybody has his idees. I change-
the names of my animiles, 'eationally, same as'
the Ingins change the names of, their braves.
Thhit critter's name used to be Calamity.; but
arter I got into the p'ison newspapers, I
changed it to Misfortin."
At lihat moment, ,Portneuf, who bad been
carried by Daphnis the latter part of the way,
caught sight of the wounded trapper, and
evinced considerable surprise.
" Ah! what do I see ! It is my ver' good
friend, Andrew Jeanjean ! Mon Dieu-! - Is'all
be ver' much amaze. What has happen ?"
" This," said Nick to Sebastian,-"is Port-
neuf, the voyageur. We found him in a dread-

ful plight-with a rope round his neck, and
his horse for his executioner. He was starvin'
and sufferin' horribly. Look at him, sonny,
and see what terrible goin's on there is down
in Trapper Valley.
" Oh ! oh !" exclaimed Sebastian.
" And, Ptoo, for that matter,' and all the
rest of the alph bit. A day or two in that po-
sition will put white threads in the blackest
hair, I allow. But don't think' on't-don't
think ot! It's too much for a lad who's so
ruinated, as 'twere, by the scarlet fever; and not
so much by the scarlet fever as by other things
neither."-
There was something in the tenderness with
which Nick treated the boy, and the readiness
with which he made excuses for his girlish
weaknesses, that excited in a pre-eminent man-
ner the interest of Pathaway. He had ob-
served, as who would not, that the trapper's
apologies were not always consistent, but al-
most without exception contradictory, and
that he unconsciously mixed them with the
ludicrous.
" Ninon ?" queried Sebastian, earnestly.
Nicholas shook his head sorrowfully.
" Nothin' yet---nothin' yet, but we're all
hopin' for the best ; and," he added, philoso-
phically, " when sevril people hope for a thing
airnest, it's apt to happen. I've obsarved it
time arter time, and the cowincidence was
startlin'; and not startlin' neither, but oncom-
mon ; and not so much oncoinmon," he con-
tinued, reverentially, in a lower voice, " as
providential."
" Who is this Jeanjean?" asked Pathaway,
addressing the voyageur,
"A trapper, and once a bourgeois  I knew
him ver' well." - Then to Jeanjean: - How do
you  do, mon, friend?  Ah ! how   pale ! I
nevare s all see you so pale !",
"Oh ! the trapper's daughter-
Oh ! the trapper's daughter !"
sang Jeanjean, in accents more plaintive than
ordinary.
" I s'all bd so-what you call him-aston-
ish!" said Portneuf, quite bewildered by the
strange manner of the trapper.
" He's been in a condemned little diffikilty ;
and' not so little, neither, for it upset all his
fakilties , and nighabout snuffed the candle of
his life,"-answered Nick, explanatorily. ."You
see aman afore ye that's been shot, exassinat-
ed, killed,.buried, resurrectionized, and resuf-
focated, all. o' which happened in a lonesome
caiion not fur from Trapper Valley. This is
the man"-pointing to Pathaway-" who did
it; and that isn't what I mean, neither; but
that he dug him up and brung him to. Sebas-
tian, we must go to cooking ; for the French-
man's stomich is as, holler as a drum, and hol-
lerer too; for a drum's full o' air, and I'll be
hanged if he looks as if he had a thimble full
on't-to spare. 1tattle out the camnp-kettle and
stew-pan, and nnd andnot hit 'em ag'in them
brittle legs o' your'n. There's no Doctor

I

11''

Whiffles here to set bones. He was what is
called a nat'ral bone-setter. Be in a hurry,
lad, for we've got the condemndest stumich
to cook for that ever darkened a camp-door.
Our family's increasin', sonny. We'll have a
hospital here by-and-by, by mighty ! Spent
a year in a hospital once, I did, when I's a boy,
studyin' doctor stuff. That was down in the'
clearin's, afore I took to the bush. The hos-
pital I was in was suntimes called an Infarm-
lty".-... .
" Infirmary," suggested Sebastian.
"'Bliged io ye, little 'un. Remember the
head of the 'stablishment very well. Seems
as if I could see him smokin' his short pipe ;
for a confarmed smoker of the narcootic weed
was the doctor. There wasn't his equal in tell-
in' stories, neither. To hear him, you'd think
that he'd conquered all the disorders, com-
plaints, maladies,. eperdemics, plagues, 'rup-
tions, and other sicknesses that humans is sub-
jeck to. He hated minerils dreadful, and said
that all sorts o' calomy-another slice, little
'un-red lead, blue-pill, and canine was p'ison
to the system. Arter I'd been there awhile,
the doctor used to let me try my hand at them
that he was practicin' at. ,You'd  oughter
seen," added Nick, holding out the stew-pan
in one hand, and a fagot in the other, " the
fixin's he had in his infarmity-the het baths,
the cold baths, and the b'ilers ; 'specially the
b'ilers-steam-}oxes he tarmed'um; butthey's
reg'lar b'ilers, by mighty ! You see there's
some affections-don't cut your fingers, sonny
-that won't come out 'cept by b'ilin'. We
used to bile 'em right smart ! Igot to be mas-
ter b'iler afore three- months. Well, as I's
sain'-don't step into the kittle, boy, and
don't be lookin' at me so queer-he let me'
have a chance now and then at 'em. He hap-
pened to have 'mong his patients an Irishman
with a bad leg, which was a fever-sore or some-
thin' o' that natur. The doctor had a good
'cal o' country practice, and was often gone a
week at a time, like an old-fashioned Methodist.
minister on a circuit. This was about the,
time when the hot-crop systum begun to be in
vogue, which was many years ago. Now the
doctor didn't go by guess-work, but allers had
a plan which he follered. He cured every-
thing with a Lobely course o' medicine, the-
botanic name of which was screw-auger. A
course o'-medicine was a 'metic, and a 'metie
was a course o' medicine."-
"I'm goin' away,' sez the doctor, arter he'd
showed me the patient.
"' Very well,' sez I.
"'This is a bad leg,' sez he.
"' It's a condemned bad leg !' sez I.
"'He must throw it up,' sez he.-
"'Nothin' more nor less,' sez I.
" ' Give him a 'metic every day till I git
back,' sez he.
"'Will it 'feet the leg ?' sez I.
"''Twon't 'feet nothin' else,' sez he. 'And
be sure,' to keep him in a horizontal position.

"' As horizontal as you please,' sez I.
' Then the doctor got into his wide one-hoss
.gig, like that my gran'father traveled in in
Centril Afriky, tetched up his old white hoss,
and trundled away, saddle-bags, Lobely, kian,
and all.'
Nick gave the stew-pan a shake, and set it
over the fire again.
" Well," he added, " I went at the critter.
The doctor was gone:sixteen days, and I puked
the patient every day, by mighty! .Boy, put
on another' stiek o' wood, and tend a little
closter to your brile ; a brile has to be-looked
arter."
" How did this treatment affect him?" asked
Pathaway, with a half-smile.
" Powerful ! powerful ! 'Long toward the
last don't I tied his well leg to the bed-post for
fear thewrong one would come up. But not'-
stannin' all the skill I laid out on the onnater-
alized furriner, the lame limb didn't come up;
but he fell away like p'ison durin' the time."
Nick gave the stew-pan an extra shake,
glanced quizzically' at Pathaway, then added,
reflectively :
" But it oughter done his business ! 'Twasn't
no fault o' mine ; I gin him enough o'. the
condemned stuff. There T!that sparrow-legged
boy has dropped his meat in the ashes ! The
doctor was summat astonished when he got
home, for he didn't speet to be gone but a
week when he went away. There was a little
pucker,, as 'twere, round the corners of his
mouth when I told-him what I'd done ; but he
lighted his pipe and smoked right on, as usual.
"', I think I'm well qualified- to . practise
doctor-stuff,' sez I.
' I think you be,' sez he, ' but there's one
piece o' information I want to give ye ; which
is, that all diseases is brung about by humors.
No matter what a -person complains on, de-
pend on't 'tis humors.'
"I'm everlastin'ly obleeged to ye,' sez I,
and the very next 'day left the doctor's, In-
farmity, snatisfied that it wouldn't be safe for
me to 'i'arn any more. Give me good food,
good air, and good exercise, and I don't care
for physic, by gracious! The human stomich
never was intended for a slop-bowl,"
Profoundly impressed with this idea, the
trapper pondered a moment, and finished his
train of thought by saying, with more than
ordinary feeling, "Oh Lord, no !
The gray hunter seemed not to notice Nick's
closing remarks ; his eyes wandered with the
same perplexed and half-painful inquisitiveness
from him to the youth, and from the youth-
to him; but they dwelt longest upon the
youth.
CHAPTER XIII.
TH EPOR'LoR'N TRAPPER.
Nick's little camp was like a grain 'of sand
in the' wilderness-the ranges stretched so
far ; the prairies were so wide ; the rivers and

I

44        1 PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN, OUTLAWS.(

n 1
4r}
1I''.

El

4


46              PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.
lakes so many,; the borders of civilization so be an oncomfortable, narvous dubiousness.
distant. The sun went down upon the soi- You remind him, apperiently, of sunthin' he
tary hut as if loth to lose sight of it and trust can't think of.. There's trouble on the young-
it alone in the darkness, its rays lingering  ster's mind, weighing down his sperrits, mak-
tremulously upon the isolated threshold.   ing him look like a clouded spring mornin'.
Portneuf was gaining strength and spirit He don't sleep well o' nights ; he dreams and
under the ministrations of the trapper and Se- starts and matters like a murderer ; and not
bastian. He was beginning to relate his adven- like a murderer, neither ; but more ,like a
tures with the outlaws of Tapper Trrace, when young feller that's been disapp'inted in love.
the dogs sprang ip and barked, and the griz- It's a terrible thing, my lad, to be disapp'inted
zly bear appeared at the door. His, coming in love,!"
was so unexpected that all save Nick were    Nick stopped suddenly and fetched a sigh
startled.                 1                from the lowest depths of his chest-a half-
"Don't be skeerd !" said the trapper. "'Tis regretful, half-sentimental sort of sigh ; such
the Shoshonie's tame - bear; -got away from as spring up from old remembrances, partly
him, I;allow. Guess I'll drive the critter home. buried, partly above ground.
Go 'long there, you valmint !"               The youth was agitated. Nick had touched
Nicholas uttered these words hurriedly and  a responsive chord in his impromptu rami-
with uncommon trepidation, for him-anxious, blngs on the borders of the unfathomable
apparently, that the animal should not attract world of the emotions. He turned his back
particular attention. Seizing the first conve- to Nick to hide his perturbation. The trap-
nient fagot, he ran from the : camp, the bear per shook his head as if he had his thoughts,
retreating, growling before him. Very soon  but would not speak their .  .
man and bear were out of sight and hearing.  "Mountaineer," said Sebastian, presently,
Nick was gone but a short time, returning  with affected cheerfulness, " were you ever
somewhat cloud and meditative, but perceiv- ' disappointed in love' ?"
ing that both Pathaway and Sebastian were    Nicholas was walking toward the camp when
watching him, he assumed to be very cheerful. this question was proposed, but it arrested
It was no hard matter to see that he was tak- him as suddenly as if a Mexican lasso had
ing unusual precautions'concerning the safety  been thrown over his head.
of his horse, calling him in from his grazing  " Disapp'inted, lad, disapp'inted ? We're
grounds and fastening him close to the door, all more nor less disappointed. ; Yes !"-with
While he was performing the last-named oper- a long inspiration-" yes, I might say I've
ation, Sebastian stole to his side and whis  been .disapp'inted. There is -times when. a
tiered :                                   vision o' curls, bright eyes, a light figger, and
"I know there is danger at hand, Nicholas !" a pooty mouth, comes over me with malan-
" Bless you, no I .There isn't an artom o' holy airnestness. But we won't speak on't
diflikilty, and not that, neither, for it's a world  now. When there's opportunity, I'll tell ye
o' diffikilties, and there allers will be more nor a story, prehaps ; and prehaps I won't, nei-
less on'em, 'specially more'; and that isn't much ther ; for what's the good o' mopin' and, fret-
arter all. I could tell ye tales o' diffikilties, tin' over what's past and gone ? My way is
my pooty boy, that wouldlast from now till to laugh at old diffikilties, and brxce up to
to-morrer morning" thout repeatin' nary one. meet the new."
Always bear one thing in mind," 'he added,   Nick and Sebastian had scarcely entered
more earnestly, "that whatever the diffikilty the camp, when the, dogs signified. by their
is, there's one near ye that won't be afeard to  conduct that some one approached, 1Iick
meet it."                                  stepped out and met a man at the door, who
" I'm so certain of it ! I'm so certain of it !" came in at his invitation.
responded Sebastian, warmly. Then, hesitat-  The personnel of this visitor was not en-
ingly, and depressing his voice : "But this aging. Heb ad a run-down, beggarish, not-
man Pathaway. I hope you will-"            doing-well look, which, while it did not great-
" Jes' soI jes' so !" returned Nick, thought- ly appeal to the sympathies of the parties, in
fully. "I'll cae for hin as though he's my  no way added to his welcome. Several rusty
natril son ; though he's one the sort that don't traps were slung upon his back. His arms
need much takin' care on. You see him take  consisted of an old fowling piece, with a frac-
care of hisself not long ago, in a way, too, that tured stock tied up with strips of undressed
was stunning' to look at. But let us go in; skin, and a hunting-knife with a saw-edged
the man we're talkin' about has got his eyes and battered blade. His garments served to
on us now. "le obsarves everything; he cover him, which was all that could be said of
watches you; it has struck me summat sing'- them ; in fact, they hung around him in be-
lar how lie watches you."                 smutched and unsightly tatters. His face,
"He feels contempt, perhaps, for my weak- hands, and neck, were superfluously dirty ;
ness," answered Sebastian, coloring, and ques  while his hair was in a state of studied disor-
tioning with his eyes.                    der, as if stuck up and matted to meet the
"It would 'pear to be contempt, at times, demands of some new backwoods fashion,
but there is moments when it really seems to  which outstripping all others, had -one on to

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.  .  47

the extreme of wildness. There was not that
thinness and squalor of the face which ought,
fittingly to have accompanied the setting of
this free-trapper gem. Despite, his outside
shabbiness, 'he had, clearly, been well fed.
Immediately upon his introduction, he took
a leisure survey of the partied within; then
laying aside his gun, and throwing down his
traps, greeted the parties with:
"How are ye, -critters 9"
Well's common, thank'e. Hope you loft
your folks- well,?". answered Nick, ungra-
ciously.
eou a'n't seen no folks lately, 'ept Ingins.
Been starvin' and hidin' on the Saskatchewan
peraries near the extreme tip o' the South
Branch. Had an awful time with the Black-
feet. Glad to see white critters ag'in. I'm
ruther run down in p'int o' clothes, but I don't
s'pose it'll make no odds amongg Christians."
It was visible from the manner of the gray
hunter that he was not pleased with this new-
comer. He observed that Sebastian watched
him continually, and started at-the first sound
of his voice, as persons sometimes start at sight
of a serpent. "How unfitted," he thought,
"is thislad for the life he is leading! He has
no nerve ; his sensibilities are shoe ed bf the
slightest circumstance ; he is weaker than a
love-sick girl. And yet-and yet," mused
Pathaway,."his wild beauty-faseinates mue in
spite of myself. - If I feel a passing emotion of
contempt, it yields to something strange and
inexplicable that renders me melancholy and
follows me in haunting dreams."
"What's your name ?" inquired Nick,,
sharply.
"Hendricks, 'mong civilized critters," re-
plied the person questioned, glancing at Port-
neuf.
"How happened ye to stumble on my
camp ?" continued Nicholas, in the same tone._
" ueer question to ask, brother, when you
know that a hun gryfree trapper can smel a
piece o' meat a dozen miles. Don't begrudge
a feller being' somethin' to eat and a fire to
warm him by, do ye ?"
Hendricks, turning his eyes. slowly from
Portneuf, met the fixed looks of Sebastian. A
change came over him at once ; his under jaw
fell, his mouth remained open in a mingled
expression of wonder, curiosity, and something
else that might have been construed into fear.
This passed quickly away, but Hendricks had
seen or aprehended that which-be could not
forget. Had his swarthy features been freed
from dirt and tan, they would have been found
paler than Andrew Jeanjean's.
Nick, who was busy with the fire, heaping
the brands together and feeding it with sticks,
did not notice the sudden perturbation of his
visitor;. but with Pathaway, who was unoc-
cupied, it did not pass without observation ;
yet it was a thing to which he had no clue to
guide him to its meaning.
"I don't begrudge nobody nothin'," quoth

Nick.. "Them as comes to my camp hungry
and tired shall be fed and rested, if I've got
the means of doin' it. , An honest, unlucky
trapper never went away from my lodge dis-
satisfied."
" I'm sich a one as you describe, but I can't
say my welcome has been o' the warmest,"
replied Hendricks, with less confidence than
before.
"I dunno, I dunno !" responded Nicholas,
doubtingly. "I ain't your jedge, and l'm
glad don't, for I mightjedge ye too bard. But
you haven't -got that open, straight' forrard
look that I like, I swear to gracious !"
Hendricks started up in a huff, scowling in
an unfriendly manner at Nick.,
"You want to fasten a quarrel on me, Nick
Whiffles !" he said, bitinghis under lip.
"You know me then, it 'pears ?" returned
Nicholas, quietly.
" You ain't sich a stranger in the Nor'weet
that it need to surprise ye," answered Hen-
dricks, measuring Nk from head to foot with
his 'eyes. "It. may be safe for ye," he re-
sumed, "to insult me here with your friends
'round ye, but if we stood hand to hand on
some lonely perarie or' in a dark pass, your
tongue wouldn't, run on, so free, 1 reckon.
But," he went on, picking up his traps and
fowling-piece, "I'll remember 'this a in ye,
and if you git any good on't you'll be wel-
come to it."
" You'd better eat afore ye go, for I'don't
want anybody to go from my camp hungry.
And," added Nicholas, looking quizzically at
Hendrick's rotund. face, "you must a been
'thout food a long time, 'edgin' by your 'pear-
ance. - You've lost a leap o' flesh, that's
plain, and I ,shouldn't wonder if you'dbeen
fasten' more nor a week.
Nick's irony was not without its effect
upon its object. At..one moment he seemed
ready to push matters to an unpleasant crisis,
while at the next other emotions agitatedhim.
When he looked, at Nick, he was manifestly
disposed to quarrel with him; but when his
regards strayed to Sebastian, which they did
furtively and often, his belligerent feelings
were diverted to a different channel. Master-
ing whatever impulses rebelled against the
movement, he threw down his traps, replaced
his gun and said, doggedly,:
" see that my room is better nor my com-
pany, but I'll only stay long enough to swaller
a cut from yonder piece o', meat,; pervidin,'
allers, you think you cant spare it to an unfor-
tinit devil who has lost his peltries and most
of his traps in one way and another, atween
Ingins and dishonest white men."
" Jes' so!, Here's a knife, here's a stick,
there's a fire ; you can cut, roast, and eat, to
suit yourself.d
"  ah!'' grunted Hendricks, and without
farther invitation  commenced . operations,
cooking and eating in grim silence. Patha-
way was well assured that the manwos not at

I1

I

I

i.nW B S
}'  rrrnnn
t
y   8
F
i
4
"     ,
rt.
't
{;


'8PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

his ease ; he did not eat as hungry men. eat,
swallowing his food mechanically and without
relish.  having finished' his xe l,:le  1ung
his rusty traps upo.hit s boulders, and took
hisgun preparatory totakig leave. ;
"You're welcome to ;tay, stranger,-if you'
can put up with our 'coimmodations," said
Nick.     ..                           -
'Your welcome domes too late-just a
leetle too later  You've. pressed the cold
shoulder agin me, Mr. Niek,. an   it'll be
strange:if ouit trailsashouldn't cross each other
somewhere- aforp we die..' Xlendrink's gaze
rested as if byiriesigtible attrctioa upon
Sebastian, who had slirnkain  rnerand
was half hidden from. view by the. poson'of
l'ortneuf, The'lad's weakness w  ye t upon
him-that unaceountable' ezitenent and pall
for that sometime es rentler  him objectt of
remark to Pathaway, whose iieter-attentive
eyes allowed  othingto oscapp unnotined.
The tableau %ofhieW'he formed a part at
that instant inteested ,him much. The }ar
nestness of P i tneuid the dull iixedries o0
Jeanjean, the poorly-concealed dislike of iMk,
together with the sirigular department of 'the
boy, andale varying expires io ofx nrieks,
were. things that struck himnas pejulier, and"
signiicaxit of mystery and.istist.
The vayfaring, shabby trapper turned i
his heel  arted sinister look at Nick, and
mnuttering",When we meet again, perhaps I
may bethe: athetginer Anid you the'unlucky
trapper. goodd night to ye all; Wah'!"
Hendricks dearted'hastilyasif glad to be
gon, yet iripe led by a strgprotive to'stay.
Clear of the. camp, the walked off- with- a
strong atd:hasty step; that indicated neither
fasting nor physgabinabity. But his' pres-
ence had left an impfesii9napon the'parties,
like that often induced by the notespf aan evil"
bird upon minds Tthat. believe insigns anal
omens.
"A strange visitor,",re arked 'atha waj,
wishing tobreak the oppressive-silende. " And
I thought, top, that y d'sliglhtly deriytte4 ,
friend Ni'cholas, fro  your, tate4 kinduess
and hospitality."
"=There is tlln. in the world, Pathaway,
that we take a Iirejpc,ie  g in at %fust sight:
Our two naturs'quarrel, as 'twere, the minutes
they dome withi. teehia, distance-; they're
like ile .ddwater ; they ,can't uli. ,1nsuy
case, t4t ichp was one of 'em, and::I'm jglad
he's left ti-.;i e. been tryin' and' parplexin
and spiArrih' miy men'ry to inen nbe' if l'y
seen him, ad when and  'ere.",
Nick stroked his beard ;ahd g aed a f tl
crackling'embers at hid.feet.  ebastin stole
to his side and whispered in his ear,; 'ie
sprium.to iis feet as.f a rattlesnake had:
stung hsiul. An ominous frown gathered upon,
his before placid brow ; his eyes flashed with
sudden, and deep indignation.  lie stood a
moment with- his teeth, set hard together,
struggling with amazement, incredulity, and

anger-three foes to calmness thag beset him
at once.
He took his rifle from  its place as if he
wou1id crush the iron barrel with his fingers;
his muscular arm shook as he held it. The
dog Calamity leaped to his feet and to his
master with a low, savage howl, which he re-
peated at intervals. This 'metamorplosis in
the person and prestige of Nick was so 'udden
that Pathaway was greatly surprised, as he
had deemed the quaint trapper. incapable of
such a manifestation.'- He no longer doubted
if, ever he had been dubious  on that point
-that;humor and strength of character might
be united.
"'Mountaineer ! .mountaineer !" exclsimed
Sebastian entl'e'tin gly and warningly, in a
tone that hkid'ingre firmnes and energy in it
than, he hagd yet displayed before Pathaway.
"d not go! do iot goIsay?"
."My pistils'! my pistils !" said the trap-
per,; hoarsely.
"Nieholas ! hear me, Nicholas ! If you have
regard for me, Nicholas ?" added the youth,
his oicegrowing clearer and stronger.
" Yr"hin'derme-you hinder me !"an-
a wypred -tli Itrapper," _impatiently;  "Every
n      onteu .ou  are delayin' the vengeance of
leaven: ".et go of me, lad !"
V ick: shook off  Sebastian's small hand'
omewhat roughly.
"It-is not for myself that I am speaking ! it
is for y, for oi that"I am pleading," re-
turned Sebastian.
"For 'One'?"'lie responded, stretching out
his disengaged -afm. "Fory me ? Is the life
of Nick Whiffles, then;,worth so much that
it's, too precious to be risked in the- cause of
justice! Is' it of sichvally that' it shouldn't
be  Hazarded when, the best-of my natur calls
to me to go forth to wipe out an old account,
and puiish then is the Master o' LLife has set
aside as vessels o' wrath fitted up for destrue-
tion ?"
Nick looked commanding and notably ma-
jestic in his honest and flaming indignation.
He  reached for his pistols and thrust them into
hi belt as if he vere driving daggers into the
,object of his resentment.
IDon't 'follow  him-don't follow !" per-
sistod Sebastian, with increasing resolution
and earaestness.e                 so
: 4Foller ? I'll foller him to 'the ends o' the
aidti if I can place my foot on his trail !"
Nick turned'to go.
Sebasianisp'ang between him and the door.
" Yon sea/ not !" cried the youth, authori-
tatively,'while his eyes beamed with singular
brigljtness., His clear accents thrilled Path-
away.
'ie:1k 'azed at the boy a moment, then
st.ooping with the quickness of thought, lifted
hind bodily, set hiin gently aside, and sprang
from the camp, Calamity darting after him,
sharing evidently in his excitement.
Pathaway heard Nick say, "Come, Calam-

21
r t yY
lviq
1   Y
F1'

sus
. 5

48

:

1
r"
At[
iYT
S £
.i
i"


PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                   .1
ity 1" and before he had recovered from his cause you have reason that my anger burns so
bewilderment, the trapper's steps had ceased savage ag'in him.
to be heard.                                 " But to pursue him to-night," remonstrated
--                       Sebastian, "would be to expose yourself to
CHAPTER XIV.                   needless danger. You may be certain that
N IC K 'S R E N R S E.         some of his comrades are not far distant.
Sebastian, confounded for the instant, but Why should you, then, in seeking that retri-
quickly recovering, ran after Nicholas ; but ' bution which Heaven will certainly vouchsafe,
perceiving the folly of pursuit, stopped and peril your own existence ?- You must reach
leaned against a tree, like one dizzy, sick, and  him by slow and wary movements ; by tireless
faint. Pathaway looked about for his weapon; watching; by learning his habits and  his
while Jeanjean began to sing :             haunts ; and I am sure there are those who
"Her eyes were like soft starlight gleaming  will assist you in an enterprise so laudable.'
At midnight, on the sleeping water,;   "Many, many !" said Pathaway, drawing
Her face was ever on me beaming ;     near. "Providing you refer to those lawless
I could but love the trapper's daughter...            -.
Oh, the trapper's daughter !"  men who ,nfest this region of country. OI, for
Pathaway remained irresolute and undecided, one, have 'devoted myself to the work, and
so much was he affected by the wild plaintive- will permit no circumstance to divert me from
ness of Jeanjean's song, following as it did the it. The person who has just left us I know
scene that had just transpired.            not, but I perceived that his presence "-here
"Ninon, ma jolie !" cried the Frenchman, he looked at Sabastian-" affected some of us
covering his eyes.                         unpleasantly.  I agree with this singularly
Jeanjean's-glassy orbs flickered up like the sensitive youth, that to follow him to-night
flame of.an expiring fire. " Ninon, ma jolie !" ' would result in no good. Prudence is as ne-
he muttered, dreamily, and the fire in his eyes cessary as courage."
went out again. -                            "It is hard," returned Nick, slowly, "to
Pathaway stepped to the door, and saw! master a feelin' that has been pent up in us a
Nick returning softly, who, seeing Sebastian- long time ; but. I a'n't so wise that I can't
leaning against the tree, hastened to him like l'arn moderation, and take counsel from them
one stricken with sudden remorse. }Ie touched  that is my friends. I'll go to the top of yen-
the boy upon the awn, and said, tenderly :  der hill, howsomnever, and I may see which
"Forgive rough Nick, my child ! Forgive way the critter goes ; for my old companion,
rough Nick ! He didn't mean to wound you; the moon, is shinin' right beautiful."
lie wouldn't ; he couldn't wound you; it isn't  With these words Nick and the dog--which
in his heart to do it. 0 L rd, no!"        had shown much impatience at this delay-set
The trapper waited for a response, but re- off toward the hill referred to by the former,
eciving none, and hearing his breathing grow leaving Pathaway and Sebastian together.
shorter and shorter, added in alarm:       Pathaway took the lad's hand.
"You are angry; angry with a man that      "You manifest," he observed, "an extra-
would die for ye ; and you a'n't angry, neith- ordinary interest in yonder trapper. Were
er ; you're faintin'. Don't faint ! don't !"  you his son, I might account for it, but as it
Sebastian smiled faintly, murmuring:     is, it is quite inexplicible. You are as dissimi-
"I thought you had gone, Nick."         ilar in character as in person. Whence, then,
"I am, child, I am; and not gone,neither, but springs this strange sympathy and friend-
goin'. .The fact is, I wassunimat rough withve, ship?'
and was afeard you might think on't onpleasaat-  " I have experienced his kindness in such ,
lv, so to speak. But you know 'twas for your marked manner, that to have less affection for
sake that my natur was so stirred. I was think- him would be black ingratitude.  Besides,"
in' "-then, in alower tone--" the man Patha- said Sebastian, "he once saved my life."
way is lookin';. he's allers lookin'."  Then  "Boy, your hand trembles in mine. Banish
louder, that Pathaway might hear : "Cheer this effeminate weakness. Remember that
up, little 'un ! I didn't mean to hurt ye, I'm  courage is a necessary ingredient in human
sure. Which foot was it I stepped on? Corns character ; cowardice renders one pitiable."
are p'ison things to have, 'cause they're allers  The youth suddenly withdrew his hand,
liable to be trod on. Have had one on my   which was glowing as with fever.
thumb toe goin' on now twenty year, that's   "Contemptible, you might have said," lie
powerful full of animosity at times. There! go  answered, with affected carelessness. - "But I
in, and don't trouble yourself about Nick am not such a craven as you may think me.
Whiffies."-                                My body may be delicate and girlish. but my
Nick stopped and whispered :             spirit is brave as that of boys of my age gen-
" Are you angry?   Can't you forgive my  rallyy"
onpoliteness ?"                              " What is your age ?" asked Pathaway, now
" I so feared for your safety ! r'have such quite absorbed in contemplating and question-
a horror of that man !" answered Sebastian.  ing the youth.
" And you have reason," answered Nick- " Thirteen, perhaps ; possibly fourteen," aa-
relapsing into his former fierceness. It is be, swered Sebastian, with hesitation.


PATHAWAY ; OR, TIE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOtINTAIN OUTLAWS.

"Older, older! And yet "-he spoke re-
flectively--" you are young enough."
"Yes, young and petted, and fit only for
the society of boys," answered Sebastian,
playfully.
" Boy !" exclaimed Pathaway, " your face
is to me a perpetual mystery, and your char-
acter is equally bewildering. Nature made'a
mistake .when she did not make you a iwo-
man."
"6I have heard that Nature never makes
mistakes," replied the lad, laughing.
"Though you laugh, you are still excited.
You are panting and trembling, as if fear was
with you an unconquerable propensity. Come,
come, boy, be something besides a chicken ;
for I cannot love a coward, though there are
moments when I feel strangely attracted to
on."
"I only ask that you won't ridicule me,"
Sebastian replied, curtly.
" I should seek a different object for ridi-
cule," returned Pathaway, somewhat piqued.
"Ai ! look yonder. There is Nick and that
omnipresent bear. Observe that bruin stands
erect upon his hind feet, and disputes, seem-
ingly, the progress of Nick."
Sebastian looked, and beheld the object to
which his attention had been directed. The
bear was indeed standing strikingly straight,
while the dog was walking suspiciously around
it. The man and the beast confronted each
other a short time, then the former turned to
retrace his steps, while the latter walked lei-
surely away.
As the trapper approached, Pathaway
strolled meditatively in another direction,
Sebastian watching him earnestly as he went.
The gray hunter was in one of those half-
melancholy, half-complaining moods that of-
ten visit persons of a certain temperament.
He wished to be alone, for there are seasons in
life when solitude is a luxury preferable to the
allurements of human society. He felt his
nature deeply stirred within him without know-
ing why. The youth gave him both pain and
pleasure-excited both admiration and con-
tempt; yet that contempt was so modified
with compassion, so transient in duration, and
so seldom experienced, thatt the word express-
ed infinitely tdo much. Sebastian was evi-
dently a link connecting him with the past, in
some way known to himself only. Possibly
he possessed a face bearing similitude to one
that had entered the charmed circle of his life
at some period of his past history. The lad's
skin bore the signature of two races ; one, a
persecuted and little-eared-for race. How.
then, could such a youth revive memories of
former days?  Perhaps it was the extraordi-
nary beauty of his face that pointed as an in-
dex to the past. The true key to his feelings,
however, at present we are only left to conjec-
ture.
'Proceeding to a spot where he was concealed,
apparently, from ~human observation, he sat

down upon a luxuriant carpet of grass, and
indulged in that train of reflection that circum-
stances had called up, the moon shedding her
mild light around him, and a host of silvery
stars looking down upon him through fiels
of immeasurable space.
CHAPTER XV.
BILL BRACE.
A figure working its way through the tan-
gled grass ; a form crouching behind bushes ;
a grim shape hiding behind rocks ; a dark
shadowcreeping close to the earth; a head,
now raised, now depressed ; eyes shining with
the cunning of the mousing cat and the eager-
ness of the hungry wolf; a strong and vindic-
tive arm, and a hand clutching a knife.
Bill Brace, after his combat with the gray
hunter, had been conveyed by his compamons
to a deserted Indian lodge in the neighbor-
hood, to recover from his injuries ; and to
meditate too, as it proved, on the means of re-
taliation. It was not the nature of this hy-
brid to forgive the man who had the nerve
and muscle to conquer him. He considered
it an insult that could be balanced by the life
of his vanquisher alone-nothing else would
be an equivalent. Bruised in body and spirit,
lie tossed on his blanket in the lonely lotke,
thinking more of vengeance than recovery-
wishing for the latterly because it was ne-
ceesary to the former. Supplied with food
and other necessaries by his comrades, lie
passed several days in comparative solitude;
Ben Joice and Zenas Beck being absent most
of the time-usually not returning till night,,,
and not uniformly at that time. Gifted, with
a body of iron hardihood, and an unimpaired
constitution, a few days sufficed to put him
upon his- feet again. Although not fully re-
stored, and still suffering from his recent -fagel-
lation, he commenced searching for Pathaway ;
and discovered the new camp of Nick Whif-
fles on the afternoon of the day upon which
the visit was made to Trapper Valley, and
Portneuf rescued. concealed in the bushes
he witnessed the return of the parties ; and
from that moment, his wrath burning with
fresh fervor, he watched the little camp with
tireless intensity, waiting an opportunity to ex-
cente his sinister design. The coming and de-
parture of Hendricks, with the attending cir-
cumstances, produced a diversion in his favor.
He saw, with a malignant joy known only to
such as he, Pathaway leave Sebastian and
Nick, and. seek the solitary spot of which muei-
tion has been made.
It was Bill Brace that -rouched in the grass
-that hid behind rocks and bushes ; it was
his burly form that crept, shadow-like, close
to the ground ; his head that was now raised,
now depressed; and his vengeful arm that
held the glittering steel. How patient is
vengeance in the pursuit of its object ; and
how shrinking, timid, and impatient is some-
times-virtue when engaged in the best of causes.

I

r
n
t
3
t
tt
_1
t 3
40  tr.
f    7 t
r

How happens it, I wonder, that the bad pas-
sions often burn more deeply, and possess
more iron. energy of determination, than the
good?
The heart of Bill Brace beat fast with ex-
pectation. There was a wild, malevolent ex-
citement in his breast, as he wormed, serpent-
like, along the earth, and drew nearer to the
victim of his resentment. He felt that sav-
age delight that the Indian experiences when
he tears the scalp from his fallen enemy. It
was fortunate for Pathaway that the - man had
no weapon but his knife ; for the distance was
now so short between them,.that even a pistol
would have proved a fatal instrument in the
practiced hand of Brace.
lie crawled on-on hand, on knee, now bent
like a worm, now prone on his face-seeing,
knowing, realizing, and absorbed in but one
thing, and that-murder ! Every sense was
strained up-to that ; ev'ey -nerve and muscle
was enlisted in that. 1\earer-nearer-but a
few yards from Pathaway's back:! No noise
had betrayed his coming : no rustle of leaves ;
no tell-tale crackling of twigs; no careless
striking of feet against loose stones.
Bill Brace arose and walked upon his
knees, with his weapon raised for the fatal
blow! The gray hunter was still unconscious
of danger: he sat leaning forward, his eyes
fixed gloomily upon the ground ; his thoughts
and fancies might have been far away. Brace
was witln striking distance ; he threw up his
arm vet higher-it was about to fall!
The weapon was not fated to descend-at
least in themanner intended.' Sebastian De-
launay sprang between the two, and received'
the point of the weapon in his arm. The baf-
fled assassin turned and fled.
Pathaway sprang to his feet-saw him bound-
ing away, and the youth standing in the atti-
tude in which he had received the wound : his
right hand stretched out toward the spot where
Brace had stood-the other held like a shield
over Pathaway. Red drops trickled from the
right arm and pattered upon the ground. Be-
fore the gray hunter had time to take in the
scene, Nick Whiffles rushed to the place, pale
and alarmed.
"I s'pected a p'ison diflikilty to-night, and
it's come !" he exclaimed. " Hurt bad, ain't
ye, little 'un ? Arm hacked most off, I s'pose.
What did you 'magine you could do with an
arm no bigger nor a pipe-stem ?"
" It would seem that he has done much with
it," answered Pathaway, who now understood
what had happened. " He has received the
blow intended for me, without doubt. Brave
youth ! I hope you will forgive the injustice,
I have done vou."
The outstretched arms sank slowly to Se-
bastian's side ; he tottered, and was received,
fainting, by Nick, who hurried with him to
camp.
"Take off his coat," said Pathaway.
" Not for the world ! returned Nick, hastily.

" He'd take a cold that he'd never git over
long's he lives !  I know his natur', which
you don't-beggin' your pardon."
In quite a flutter, Nic k cut open the sleeve of
the boy's coat, and hurriedly commencedband-
aging the wound. The gray hunter observed
that ,the arm was small and delicate, and where
not stained with blood, it was singularly white
for a half-breed. A doubt, a vague, startling
doubt-went floating through his brain like a
cloud.
Sebastian opened his eyes with a shudder and
complained of being cold. Nick finished tMA
dressing of the wound as if it was something
that could not be completed with too much
dispatch-then fastened the severed sleeve at
the wrist. Pathaway hung over him anxiously,
ready to render him every aid in his power ;
but the trapper claimed the right of surgeon
and nurse ; so that he could do lit tle else than
express his thanks and sympathy.
"1I'm.afraid,", said Pathaway, " that the
bandage is too loose to check the bleeding-
You put it on rather hastily."
"Not at all-not at all !" answered Nick.
"You never see a boy stop bleeding' as quick
as he does. He can stan' cuts and bruises be-
yond all account ; and not bruises, either, but
euts. It's on'y eperdemies and other outrage-
ous diseases that takes him down. Give him
a fever, and 'twduld go pesky-hard with him,
he's so small of his age ; for a fever requires
so% muck room to stir about in, that a good
'eal o' trouble might be anticipated. But this
little diffikilty isn't nothin'."
The youth was lying with his eyes closed,
but Pathaway perceived that he smiled faintly
at the remarks of Nick.
" There's sich a healin' power in boys,"
added Nick, watching every change in Sebas.
tian's countenance. " I r'ally believe if you'd
a cut my fingers and toes off at night, when
I's ten years old, that they'd sprouted out ag'in
by mornin'. All our family was jes' so. How
do ye feel now, sonny ?"
"Very well," said Sebastian.
"The little diffikilty don't pain ye any, does
it?"
"No, Uncle Nicholas," answered Sabastian,
cheerfully.
" What did I tell ye ?" asked Nick, turning
triumphantly tp Pathaway.
" You are wonderful people, both," uttered
the latter, with warmth. ." But I should feel
grieved indeed," he added, " should this brave
and disinterested boy suffer serious injury on
my account. I am heartily grateful, believe
me."                                   *
" Sebastian's color heightened, and he was
about to speak, when Nick stopped lim.
" Don't trouble yourself $o answer, for I
know how to do it better nor you. Boys never
know what to say in sudden emergencies . The
truth is, friend. Pathaway, he's done nothin'
more'n common, and he'll forget it afore hiO arm
gits well. You don't knowswhat a tollerhe is;

58


.PATHAWAY; OR, TIIE MOJNTAIN OUTLAWS.
bes callers swin' somebody's life ; and not Pathaway was for a time perplexed respecting
a r., neitber, but whenever he has a chance. the regulation of his conduct. His first care
'Tisn't rortIh mentioning . Wonder what o'clock was to see if he of the sash was unattended,'
'tis ,+"                                   or if there was any convenient lurking-place
Nicholas looked around, as if to know " what for his wild fellows. Having satisfied himself
o'clock 'tis," was the absorbing topic of his that his men, if in the neighborhood, were
thoughts.                                  not very near, he resolved not to shun the
" Used to run a watch, once, but 'twasn't one meeting that now seemed inevitable ; for the
o the little stunted consarns that folks carry object of his attention had. discovered him and
now-a-days. 'Twould go like a trottin' horse  not changed his course. There was a verdant
when it got started. It' got out o' order arter, level at the bottom of a hill, and both reached
a while. Tried to fix it, but arter tinkering' on it at the same moment ; they paused within
it a couple o' days, I sold the in'ards to a Sioux pistol-shot of each other, wary and guarded,
chief, and closed out the rest o' the consarn to but neither inclined to take the initiative in
a a uaw, who wore part on't for a brooch, and  any act of hostility.
use the rest for a stew-pan. It's getting' late ; He of the red sash was dressed as we have
I'm sleepy, by mighty !"                   previously described, armed with a double-
Nicholas yawned, gave Sebastian sorme wa- barreled gun and a suspicious profusion of
ter, and, afer covering him with his blanket, side-arms.
stretched himself composedly at his feet.    " Peace or war ?" demanded Pathaway.
Portneuuf and Jeanjean were already slum-  " Jest as it pleases ye, mister ; a'n't par-
bering, the terrible ordeal to which the former ticular. Don't be skeerd," returned the other,
had been exposed, rendering sleep an over- gruffly.
vering necessity. The camp-fire flickered  "Rest easy on that point ; I'm  not often
otr, an the night went on ; but restless, and  frightened," answered Pathaway, with compo-
unsolicitous of repose, Pathaway reclined, mus- sure.
ing, at the door.                            The parties - so opposite in character-
walked toward each other as if by a common
CHAPTER XVI.                  impulse. Pathaway had a vague idea that he
CAPTAIN DICK.                tecognized the voice, and scrutinized the man's
On the following morning Pathaway left the face sharply ; his features came, one y one to
camp. ostensibly to hunt for game, but really  his recollection, presenting to him  -e face of
'because his nature would not allow him to re- the shabby trapper, Hendricks, the visitor at
mainidle ; he had a strong curiosity, too, to  Nick's camp on the previous night.-
make himself acquainted with the prominent "You have repaired your ill luck very soon,
landmarks and peculiarities of the country. I think, friend Hendricks !" he remarked,
Possibly he had no special object in view, but' dryly.
followed those unquestioned impulses. that so  " Oh, you haven't forgot me! ~ Sharp eyes,
frequently impel men to action, and reach not eh?  What do you think of me, critter ?" re-
only to the denizens of cities, but to the far turned Hendricks, staring inquisitively at the
fastnesses of the mountains.               hunter.
Although of a reflective turn of mind, it  The latter stepped back, and commenced a
was seldom that Pathaway was so abstracted fresh survey of the questioner in a manner
and disposed to reverie as on that occasion. that could not but have been annoying to the
14 walked scarcely seeing the ground- he subject of it.
traversed ; hill and valley, water and tim-  "I fear my opinion, if avowed, would not
bet', seemed to pass him as objects float by us be flattering. You have plenty of muscle and
in dreams. Once a mountain sheep offered   more assurance. You may have brute cour-
him a fair mark, but he did not look through  age, but you are not handsome.  In short,
the- sights; an antelope bounded across his friend Hendricks, you do not impress me fa-
path within easy range, but the deadly rifle vorably."
did not leap to his shoulder. Perchance the - " Um !" growled Hendricks. "What's your
gray hunter was thinking of Sebastian and the business hereabouts ?"y
wounded arm; but why the brown-faced youth , " To hunt, to trap, in fact, to do as I please,"
should form a prominent picture on the can- answered Pathaway, meeting the axes of Hen-
vas of his min , is a question that gives rise drinks' eyes steadily.
to fresh queries.                            "Quite an independent character, it 'pears,,'
Whatever was the tenor of his thoughts, he replied Hendricks, grimly.
was recalled to the realities around him by the  "Entirely so. Able to take care of myself,,
appearance of .a man slowly descending the I fear neither ruffians, robbers, nor outlaw
slope of a hill and coming directly toward trappers."
him. He reminded him at once of the person   Pathaway's manner was quiet, but there
he had seen in the canon, wearing the red sash was meaning in the tones of his voice.
and exercising so much authority over those  " Don't carry too high hand nor too high
wild characters that acknowledged him their head, youngster, for you're with a critter now
leader. here was an unexpected event,. and that knows how to tame such fiery and mettle.

PATHAWAY; OR, THE D
Bome colts. You're not old enough yet, to
put on airs and play the veteran mountaineer.
Boy, out o' pity for ye, I tell ye that you'd
better go home. 'Tisn't every one I'd do .so
much for ; but you're such a spirited grower,
and ruffle your feathers so quick, that you
rather 'muse me than t'otherwise. Jest take
Nick Whiffles and leave the country, and you
will git no harm from me."
The outlaw leaned on his gun, and chewed
away at his quid violently.
"But if I choose to stay ?" queried Patha-
way, slowly, advancing a little closer to Ilien-
drick, andbringing his eyes to bear upon him
at point-blank range.
Choose !" exclaimed hendiicks, his eyes
flaring up like half-extinguished coals, "there's
no choice about it. When I say 'Go!' folks
go ; they disappear and are seen here no
more ; when I say 'Stay !' they stay.  The
word of Captain Dick is law !"
The ,ran drew himself up with something
of pride and dignity.  Conscious authority
invested him for the moment with a certain
wild impressiveness. He had controlled his
fellows so long and so entirely, that resistance
to his will was a species of audacity that he
could not endure.
The gray hunter met his flaming looks with-
out shrinking. As Captain Dick grew more
impierious, lie, if possible, grew more calm
and stronger in his self-possession.
"Captain Dick," lie replied, with a slight'
smile, "you, will find no subject in me. I
neither regard your authority nor fear your
menaces. I have heard of you ; report speaks
badly of your character. Wicked deeds have
been committed in the neighborhood of Trap-
per Valley."-
"Have you got any brains ?" asked Hen-
dricks, turning sharply upon Pathaway, and
attempting to quell him with the glances of
his inflamed eyes. " Do you know the natur
o' the critter you're dealing' with ? Perhaps
you've got tired livin', and want to be put out
the way ; and ag'in, you may be disordered in
the head."
He leered at the hunter like one whose emo-
tions are, divided between amazement and
wrath ; the latter, arising from  the young
man's bold words, the other called into play
{         by his singular self-control.
"As to the matter of brains," answered
Pathaway, "I believe I have nothing to ap-
prehend in regard to quantity ; of the quality
you shall yourself judge."
-~  Yes, I'll examine 'em by-and-by !" rejoined
Hendricks, touching a large pistol with the
tip of his finger, and contracting his forehead,
till his shaggy brows met. " I may safely
say," he went on, with frightful humor, " that
I'll look into 'em."
"I shall return all your favors. Be careful
of your fingers, Captain; they have nechani.
calfy wandered to a weapon that is often dan-
gerous.''

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                      65
- When a man meets a prowling beast in
the forest," replied the outlaw, with a kind of
savage self-restraint indicative of the smother.
ed lire burning within, "he is wise enough notto
wantonly provoke his anger ; but-you, mister,
are anxious to thrust your neck under his
paws. You dropped somethin' about robbers
and outlaws.. What did you mean ?"
Hendricks advanced his face nearer to that
of the young man, and flamed on him more
fiercely with his glittering eyes.
Pathawi y leaned forward as if willing to en-
gage in the contest of glances.
"You ask my meaning, nor will I long keep
you in suspense. I ai glad of this opportu.
nity of meeting you face to face.' 1 have
wished such a chance for many days. By
the phrase I made use of, I referred to such
as you."
" What am I ?" asked Hendricks, hoarsely.
"An outlaw-an assassin, and the leader of
assassins-a mountain-robber-a despoiler of
trappers and hunters, and false alike to white
and red men. It is a pleasure," lie continued,
in the same unruffled manner, " to meet you
to-day, and thrust these unwelcome truths in-
to your face-to tell you what a scoundrel you
are, and how richly you deserve death at the
hands of the hangman."
The mountaineer's tawny face bleached bo.
fore the steady gaze of Pathaway. He was
astounded ! Such language from one that he
considered little else than a boy, struck him
as something so much out of the common
course of events that he had no reserve force of
philosophy to meet it. He remained in a sort
of stagnation of consternation. But his color
flashed back presently, and with it the full
tide of his anger.
" Do you know what you' have done ?" he
demanded, almost in a whisper. "Do you
understand that you have committed suicide"
" I know well'what I do ; I have measured
myself and you ; and I," he added, suddenly
straightening his person, and speaking in a
voice that was nearly as penetrating as steel,
"am the better man !"
If one of the mountains before him had
suddenly moved down to the prairies ; if the
lake at his left had dried up, while he was
looking at it; if the stream away at his right
had turned and run.backward, he could not
have evinced such blank incredulity. He
tried to get vent in a mocking laugh that was
like the report of a pistol.
" I must take breath ; this chokes me up
like a sudden cold. Wait; don't be in hurry.
I'll kill you presently at my leisure. I heed
fannin', critter !"
"More than that ; you need punishment."
" Bring the man i bring the man !" cried
Hendricks.
" He is here."
" Where ?"--contemptuously.
" Look at me, and you will see hubI " to-
torted Pathaway, with. a piercing glands.


PATIAWAY; OR, THE MOUTAN OUTLAWS.; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

" You---you!" muttered Hendricks, mock-
izgly.
"Try me I" was the quiet response.
You'
The two men stared silently at each other.
The contest had already begun-in the mind;
it had not reached the muscles. Thus far
in the fight the gray hunter had sustained
himself, and he was every moment growing
firmer. His prestige was having its effect on
Hendricks.
When -where - how ?" asked the latter,
eagerly.
When-where-how you please," answered
Pathaway, his nostrils dilating, his lips curling.
"The weepons-the weepons?" interrogated
the outlaw, quickly, with latent remains of
doubt upon his face.
'"You may choose from the whole variety
the world affords-swivels, blunderbusses, mus-
kets, rifles, carbines, pistols, swords, bowie-
knives, or, if you will, the hard muscle."
The gray hunter spoke slowly, distinctly,
and as composedly as if discussing the ordinary
natters of life.
" Umn!" --
A drop or two of the ludicrous diluted the
ruffian's wrath. Was ever such a piece of temer-
ity heard of! Ought he to be amused, orshould
lie allow his resentment to rise till it ran over ?
It was the strangest thing ! It was terribly
presumptuous, too. But he would take his
tine; he would show this silly, audacious boy
what it was to provoke the sovereign of the
mountains. He would t hurry; lie would
hold his indignation down a space, and give
the insulter opportunity to realize what he had
done.
" I don't know," lie said, doubling his
brawny fist and thrusting it within an inch of
Pathaway's nose, " what on airth keeps me
from sp'ilin' the shape of your head with this
'ere wful striker ; but I s'pose it's the same
thing-that keeps the cat from eatin' the mouse
till it's played with it and tossed it about with
its paws."
OYou haven't named the weapons, brag-
"  =  t."
hendricks made aprovoking grimace ; and,
'esudenly thrusting  is arm farther forward,
-aught the 'young man's nose between his
tthidnb and finger. Pathaway's fist darted out
in i straight line from his shoulder, and, Hen-
drioks fell upon his back with a violence that
made'his joints crack. He lay stmned an in-
~tant, then arose, bewildered, holding his
hands to his head, standing unsteadily. It
appeared to the outlaw that he had never seen
so'nany electric sparks in his life as now danced
about before him. He was like the ox once
felled by the axe in the shambles, which,
sponging blindly to -his feet, in a flurry of
n ways wildly to and fro with-depressed
1etapd~startig'eyes..

'Hendricks sat down upon the ground, and
waited quietly for the mist to clear away. his
face was ,very pale when he took his hands
away and looked up at Pathaway.      The"
stormy part of his wrath had given place to a
deeper, more deadly feeling. His moderation
was perfectly understood by the hunter, who,
well acquainted with the pray o human pas-
sions, knew what that calmness boded.
" This, of course," he said, huskily, " must
be answered for. 'There follers a squarin' up
atween us. I might refuse to fight ye, and
yet have ye in my power ; but my vengeance
wouldn't be complete: I must punish you
myself with my own hand. I've been summmiat
mistaken in ye, I'll grant, which makes it
worse for you. You took me onawares, and
struck rigft- hard ; but the bowie-kuife will
strike deeper, and to that weapon I hold ye."
" Let it be so ; I accept. - I will vanquish
you with that as I have with this."  Patha-
way held up his clenched hand.
Hendricks drew forth a large bowie, and af-
ter feeling its edge, placed it on the ground
beside him. The action, in the usual tenor of
life's events, would have been simple and
passed unnoticed ; but in this instance there
was that in it to make one shrink : so much
do the motives of man color his acts., Every-
thing has a meaning ; and it is the meaning of
everything that we look after.
" don't hurry, Captain," continued. Patha-
way. " There's time enough. If one of us
dies between now and to-morrow morning, will
not that be sufficiently soon ? Candidly, do
you think either of us shall want less time
than that for preparation ? As for you, there
are some bad jobs on your hands that'll have
to be accounted for. Blood, you know, is
never silent ; it will always cry out for ven-
geance; and try as you will, you cannot bury
and smother it. Perhaps the Infinite Judge
will ask you: 'Where is Portneuf, the voya-
geur? Where is Andrew Jeanjean, the trap-
per ?' What answer will you make, Captain
Dick ?"
"I see that you know too much-too much !"
returned Hendricks, rising. "A voice like,
yours must be stopped ; the worms must have
cold tongue to feed on."
Captain Dick threw his pistols upon the
ground, unbuckled his belt, and east it from
him.'
" Stop a moment ! We cannot meet now
on equal terms. I know the effect of such a
blow as I have given you. Your limbs are
weak; your arms have lost half their strength ;
your eyes are unsteady. Should we engage
as you are, I should kill you at the first pass.
Meet me to-morrow night, just as the sun is
setting, and your sun and it'may set at the
same time-the first, in glory and brightness ;
the last, in perdition and darkness."
The clear, deep tones of Pathaway had a
touch of solemnity ; they were like 'the voice

;   ,
9
_,£
i
a
v'
,,
J
+sj
F
_
'FiF
.{R
1
i

of an accuser confident in the triumph of truth
and justice.,
" It's but an artifice !" muttered the Cap-

F

a
Y

PATIIAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS. _  57

tain.
~ "To-morrow night, as the sun is setting, I
will meet you on this level with a single wea-
pon, and that shall'be this."  The hunter
touched the bowie-knife at his belt.
The outlaw stood scowling a few moments,
then said :
"Let it be to-night-to-night !"
"To-night be it. Do not doubt me ; with-
out fail I will be here. God help him that
falls! and that will be you!"
"I doubt whether to trust you," said Hen-
dricks, fingering his shaggy beard, while his
lawless spirit cheafed within him like a caged
beast to which captivity is irksome.
"Will you come alone ?" he asked, suspi-
ciously.
'Alone," replied Pathaway. " And you ?"
" Shall need no witness," added Hendricks,
fiercely, as if completing the hunter's last sen-
tence.
" You are not over-scrupulous, Captain
Dick, and taking your word is more danger-
ous than meeting you. Keep away your 'fel-
lows; I shall be watching-I shall be well
assured on that point. Some men can be
trusted ; you are not of that kind. Do I strike
well, Captain ?"
The grey hunter smiled derisively, while'
Hendricks' brow was knit into a score of
wrinkles.
"'Twas a foul blow, and shall prove the dear-
est you ever struck ! Enjoy your triumph,
critter, and don't think to sneak away 'thout
.hearin' ag'in from Cap'n Dick. If you hope
 to give me the slip, you'll be disapp'inted ;
for every pass and defile will see you, if you
start. Well, won'tt matter much, ' he ad ed,
with a sardonic laugh, " for a rifle ball will do
our business jest as well, and save me trou-
le. At sunset, youngster,'at sunset'!"
My memory is good," returned Patha-
way. " Adieu, valorous Captain, till then."
The trapper-outlaw walked a short distance,
then looking over his shoulder, muttered :
"There'll be one cock the less to crow in
the mornin' !"
A laugh expressive of his malignancy and
humiliation accompanied this remark-a start-
ling, unnatural sound rattling up from the
chest, like the threatening growl of an animal.
Pathawa made no answer, but turned his
face toward Nick Whiffle's camp.
CHAPTER XVIL
THE DUEL.
The departing sunlight lay in horizontal
beams upon the earth, quivering like long
tongues of fire upon the grass. The descend-'
ing orb never looked more like a deity worthy
the worship of man.  It sank with golden
majesty below the western verge.

Pathaway stood on the grassy level where
he had met Hendricks. Twilight fell like a
far-stretching, vapory cloud, wrapping every
object in a shadowy mantle. That inipressivo
silence that sometimes follows the dyinIg day,
rested upon the spot. The leaves hung mo-
tionless upon the trees, and the long spires of
grass stood still and stirless. The quietude
spoke to the heart of the young man 9s with
a voice. His finer sympathies held commun-
ion with Nature, and recognized her noiseless
footsteps around him.
He stood with folded arms looking toward
the slope where he was in momentary expect-
ancy of seeing Hendricks ; and that person-
age presently appeared. He soon reached the
level.
" I have waited you," said Pathaway, as the
trapper-outlaw drew near. "I feared you had
thought it best to forget this appointment."
" I .have come to fight, not to talk !" re-
torted Hendricks, gruffly.
" You shall be satisfied, Captain Dick."
The parties laid aside their belts and pis-
tols. Hendricks threw off his hunting shirt,
displaying an arm bare and brawny.
"The terms of this duel-" began the gray
hunter.
" Are to the victor life, to the vanquished
death !" interposed Hendricks.
" I expected as much, and came fully pre-
pared for such terms." The hunter took off
his gray frock, but without bluster or any at-
tempt at effect;. his chest was full and round-
ed, his arms shapely, yet without uncommon
development of muscle. His antagonist ob-
served him with dogged curiosity and impa-
tient and insolent eagerness,,as if already as-
sured of victory, and unwilling to delay it.
Pathaway was pale, and a change had grad-
ually taken place in his expression; his eyes
were blazing with a light that Hendricks had
not before seen in them. He grasped his
weapon, and the two regarded each other war-
ily ; then Hendricks sprang forward, and their
blades met. A sharp and angry clamor rang
through the air, disturbing the soft repose of
the spot. It soon became apparent that Cap-
tain Dick was resolved to make the contest, a
short one, and end it by a bold and vigorous
onset. He wielded the terrible instrument he
had chosen with, great skill and rapidity; it
waved on every side like lightning, and on every
side met opposing steel. His fierce lunges at
the hunter's breast were turned away as with
a shield of iron.
Pathaway acted on the defensive only, now
retreating, now leaping nimbly to the right or
left, now warding a blow from his face, now
from his neck, chest, side, and limbs, perform-
ing all these feats with an ease and adroitness
that proved him equal to the emergency.
Captain Dick perceived that he.was spend-
'ing his strength in vain, and suspended his
furious assaults to take breath. Pathaway si.


PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.      59

gently awaited the, renewal of the combat ;
but it was not difficult to see that he was be-
couing interested in the terrible game. The
outlaw's first confidence was gone ; and to lose
shad in such a trial, is to lose much. Victory
is half won, when one does not doubt himself.
Doubt is the enemy of success.
H*idricks advanced to continue the contest
with much more cautiousness and much less
assurance. Pathaway now began to press him,
and to exhibit a skill and quickness that cowed
the impetuosity of his antagonist, and 'made
his ruffian heart beat fast with apprehension.
" I have you, captain I" said Pathaway, with
startling emphasis. " You are mine-I am
your master !"
Hendricks' weapon flew from his hand into
the air, falling on the grass at some distance ;
he stood before the hunter,unarmed, and pant.
panting like an overworked ox. Pathaway
stood with his knife pointed at his breast,
emern, firm, and threatenin  as a minister of
vengeance. The color faded from Hendricks'
face, and he seemed to feel already the 'touch
of death. As they confronted each other, the
one with a proud glow of triumph, the other
with wild consternation, the voice of a woman
arrested the hand of Pathaway, and almost in-
stantly a female form was interposed between
him a'ud Hendricks.
" Hold !" she cried. " Would you kill an.
unarmed man-? It is me that you strike when
you strike him."
Pathaway looked at the face that was turn-
ed rebukingly upon him, and recognized the
young woman that Portneuf had called Car-
6ta. 'ie drew back, and answered, gracefully:
" For your sake I spare him, though his life,
by the terms of our meeting, is forfeit to me."
" And what good would his life do you ?"
asked Carl6th.
" Ask Portneuf, or Andrew Jeanjean that
lquestiod," answered the hunter, sternly.
" Your meaning is dark," said Carl6ta,
changing color.
" So was the trapper's grave in the lonely
cai on !" retorted Pathaway, with a searching
look.
Carldta put her hand to her brow dubiously,
gazing fixedly at the hunter, whose counte-
nance appeared to fascinate her.
" Hush ! hush ! no more. You are trifling
withthat-with that which you ought to val-
ne," responded Carldta, quickly, and with
earnestness. A warning glance accompanied
this remark.
- "Believe me, young woman, I shall put no
restraint upon my tongue while truth compels
me to speak, and my arm is able to make good
my words. I said tiat this ruffian's life was
forfeit to me ; it is, and, not to me alone, but
to the law ; for law reaches'to every country,
however remote from the great centres of civ-
ilization. The presence of human beings
makes law even in the wilderness."

" Foolhardy young man!" answered Carl6ta,
" I would have given your-own: life for his, and
you must attribute what may happen to your
imprudence."
Cari6ta waved'her hard, and immediately a
score of men arose front the grass and bushes.
Pathaway was instantly surrounded by a set
of fellowswho would have graced the deck of
a pirate-ship. The outlaw-trapper laughed
triumphantly, for the vision of sudden death
had passed. Men grow brave after danger,
and lawless passion is insolent. We oscillate
like pendulums from one idea to another. The
cheek that is now pale with terror will soon be
flushed with pride. Sudden deliverance often
produces a revulsion that reaches to the very
extreme of opposite emotion.
Hendricks was now disposed to, abuse his
power, forgetful of the clemency of.his con-
queror. Pathaway, however much disturbed
inwardly, maintained his composure, quietly
pat on his coat, and while doing so, dexterously
managed to conceal his knife about his person.
" Well, miss or madam," he said, with some
bitterness, " I seem to be your prisoner. ~ At
your request, I spared the life of this burly
ruffian. What reward shall I receive for my
gallantry ?"
Pathaway, as he stood erect in his manly
beauty, was an object of no ordinary interest
to the girl Carldta ; and lie, in turn, did not
look upon her without curiosity mingled with
pity. What was her history? What wayward
ate had given her such a life ? What imper-
ative -circumstances had shaped her course,
making her the friend, companion, accomplice,
and leader of outlaws ?e, I thought, as every
man does when lie sees a misdirected woman,
what she might have been under different au-
spices.
" A little spot of earth somewhere near
Trapper Trace !" she, replied, in a low voice,
stud ying his features.
"It's what we shall all want," muttered
Pathaway.          -
" Critter, it's what some won't want long !"
said Hendricks, with vindictiveness.
"I don't know-I don't know, Captain
Dick," responded the hunter, looking signifi-
cantly around him. "I have seen those whose
bodies will at last rest in air."
" You count on our bein' hanged ; but sich
a thing won't be in your day. If any on us
ever come to the halter, it'll be arter you are
past seem' the sight." oThen to his men:
"Critters, form ! Set your faces toward Trap-
per Trace, and keep a sharp look-out for this
pork-eater. By-the-way, lads, that confounded
Frenchman got-clear in some way ; found him
last night, or his ghost, at Nick Whiffles' camp.
'Twon't do to make another sich bunglin' job
as that. Go ahead, boys, go ahead ! Carl6ta,
you come in the nick o' time. You see I was-
taken dizzy of a sudden, and this critter took
advantage on't."-

-A smile flitted over Pathaways lips. Some
of the men shrugged their shoulders and leered
at each other.
The parties were soon in motion. Ascend-
ing the hill. surrounded by his captors, the
gray hunter, to his surprise, saw horses enough
to mount them all in the valley on the other
side. The outlaw trappers had left them there,
in order that their fhrther advance might be
less conspicuous. In a short-time, thev'were
all in the saddle. Pathaway found hiimself
riding beside CarhSta.  He had never been
placed in a position so peculiar, and one so'
well calculated to awaken serious reflection.
The night had fully set in ; but it was not so
dark but he could see very well the person of
his companion. She was dressed as he had
seen her on the previous day. Of her face
and figure he was able to form a more accu-
rate judgment. That she was physically gifted
by nature, lie was not long in perceiving. Her
swelling bust aid rounded arms were fine spe-
cimens of developed womanhood ; while her
figure generally, indicated litheness and activ-
ity. Her light-brown hair was kept in place
by a velvet band, but was allowed to flow in
curls upon her neck and shoulders. Her fea-
tures were regular, but strongly marked, and
possessed of a wild and daring beauty. Her
eyes were darker than her hair, exceedingly
quick and penetrating. She sat her horse as
if she had been accustomed to the saddle from-
childhood. She controlled her beast with a
firm, strong hand, and rode as fearlessly as any
of her lawless followers. Pathaway noticed
her particularly ; for he was desirous to know
if he could base hopes of escape upon her wo-
manly instincts.
" This is a strange life for one of your sex,"
said the gray, hunter, watching her counte-
nance, to see if it gave any indication of the
qualities which would operate in his favor.
"And yours, perhaps, appears strange to me.
What other life can be so free ?" she answered,
with a sharp pull at her bridle-rein.
" Free indeed ! too free-too free !" returned
Pathaway.
" From your point of view, yes ; but people
have to be just what their surroundings make
them."
She glanced at the hunter inquiringly,,who,
leaning toward her, replied :
" The surroundings must be bad that force
one of your sex to become what you appear
to be.",
"What kind of a creature do you consider
me ?" she asked, petulantly.         ,
" A misdirected woman-the accomplice of
crime and robbery."
" You are plain-spoken, sir !" retorted Car-
l6ta, tartly.
"Do not mince matters ; it is too late to be
dainty in regard to the character of the solitary
and predatory horde of which you are a mem-
ber. Look at these fellows around you; they

are lawless and intractable as Indians ; faith-
less as the wandering Arabs of the desert."
" I care not to talk of this subject. There
are other matters that might employ your
thoughts more profitably."
"I understand you. You would say that I
should be thinking of dying, and what comes
after death. Believe me. my life has not been
so bad that I need to trouble with late remorse
And after all," he added, "it is not wanly to
whine and lament at the approach of man's
last enemy. I speak sincerely, for I doubt not
that my end is near ; and with you, woman,
will lie the c'ime of my murder."
"CLou talk coolly of a subject that generally
pales the cheek of the stoutest," responuicd
Carluta.
"My own will be pale, questionless, when
that hour arrives-; but I trust it will not he
with coivard fear, but that wholesome awe
which will fall upon one as he enters the por-
tals of that other world of which this is the
threshold."
" We who dwell in the mountains know of
but one world. There-there ! let us not speak
together farther. I wish not to have other than
accustomed thoughts. I would think of my
horse, of the mountains and prairies, of a wild
and irresponsible life of freedom."
Carl6ta pointed toward her companions, and
added:
." We are a community by ourselves -ai
world by .ourselves ; we make our own laws,
and acknowledge fealty to no outside legis-
lation. I know that the world is very large, and
there are many dwellers in it; but they are
strangers to me, and I to them."
" But that is no good reason why you should
become beasts of prey." said Pathaway, with
earnestness.
" It is a law of Nature;" Carl6ta continued,
emphatically, "'that one animal should live at
the expense of another. The fish in the water,
the beasts in the forest, the birds in the air,
devour each other. The spider weaves its web
to catch the unsuspecting fly ; the panther
crouches in his covert to spring upon the deer ;
the hawk swoops down ulpot the chicken ; and
following the great law of Nature, manpreys
upon man. Why should we scorn the teacli-
ings of Nature ? How shall we resist the mo-
mentum which she has given to all animate
,things. Even vegetable life flourishes best
upon the decay of last year's growth."
Carldta's face flushed, and a wild enthusiasm
beamed from every feature. Pathaway gazed
at her in mute ast nishment.
" Is it possin.e I is it possible !" he mur-
mured. " Can a mind so gifted be so perverted.
Whence this knowled c-this flowing speech-
this aptness of simile-this command of lan-
guage? Woman," he went on, addressing her
in a regretful tone, "you make me inexpres-
sibly sad. I see what you are, but I think what
you might have been I What you might have

PATIIAWAY ; OR, TiE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.


60              PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.
been, but are not. Alas! how wayward is hu- was he guarded, that no practicable chance
man nature. In contemplating you I forget, presented ; and after entering the bridle-
myself, and exclaim mentally : 'Her fate is path just mentioned, that experiment could
worse than mine, though a violent death looks not be tried with any hope of success-for
me in the face.'"                  .      rocks and beetling cliffs towered on either
Carl6ta mused, playing with her riding-whip  hand.
nervously :                                 Carl6ta, through accident or design, was
" It has never been my fortune to meet one now riding directly before him, and the party
like you before. To what genus do you be- traveled at a slow pace. Pathaway wished to
long?" She asked, presently, in a voice di- renew his conversation with the young wo-
vided between curiosity and badinage.     man, still anxious to make an impression that
"I am but a humble member of the great should be favorable to him.
family of man, and not a beast of prey, like  "This is a wild tract of country," he re-
those around me. I am an animal, but a hu- marked, availing himself of a moment when
man and humane one, I trust."             Oarldta's face was casually turned toward him.
"And I," rejoined Carl6ta, bitterly, "am the  " What part of your territory may we now be
animal in a wild and uncultivated state !"  in ?"
"And I, it would appear, your lawful prey.  " The trail we are traveling is called Trap-
When," he added, sarcastically, " shall you  per Trace. It took its name from the legend
make a meal of me "            'of a white trapper, who was the first to explore
Carldta reddened, then smiled, and deigned this solitary region. This trapper became in-
to glance at the person of Pathaway.      volved in the intricacies of the mountains;
" I wash my hands of this matter," she an- and it was not until after wandering about some
swered, by-apd-by, with evident hesitation and two months, in the midst of winter, and suffer-
chagrin. " You will be dealt with according to ing incredible hardship, that he was able to
the laws of our community, and by those of make his way out again, famished and frost-
your own sex. Don't hope anything from me." bitten."-
"One cannot help expecting kindness from  "Had this thing occurred recently, his dis-
woman," rejoined Pathaway, quickly. "Pity  appearance could be more easily accounted
should ever dwell in her bosom. I must, I for," returned Pathaway.
will trust in you !"                        "Without doubt," replied Carldta, with a
The gray hunter turned his handsome face toss of the head.
to Carlota with a manly glow upon it.       "Trapper Trace, I suspect, leads to Lost
"It is, it will be in vain ! I command-yes, Trapper Valley. I've heard that more than
I command you to dismiss such thoughts," she one trapper' has lost his way in these soli-
replied, with more authoritativeness and fervor tudes."
than she had yet displayed.                 "Quite possible !" said Carl6ta.
" You forget, fair outlaw, you command these  "Nor is it very surprising," resumed the-
rufians, not me."                         gra hunter, " that one should not be able to
"Outlaw and ruffians !" muttered Carl6ta, find this. thread-like path after entering the
annoyed and vexed.     -                  Valley, with its hundred indentations and ap-
"Yes," resumed Pathawaf, bending toward  parent outlets. " I- think," he added, ironi-
her, and speaking softly, "you will save me ! dally, "that there should be huts of refuge
You will lead me unscathed from the midst of erected in this bewildering region, and a ken-
your lions."                              nel of St. Bernard' dogs kept in training for
"No! I tell you no !" she answered,hurriedly, the rescue of lost and forlorn trappers and
with marked emphasis, and touching her horse hunters."
with the whip, galloped to the side of Hen-  While thus conversing, the Trace gradually
drieks, leaving Pathaway in a whirl of doubt widened ; and Pathaway pressed forward to
and agitation.          -                 Carl6ta's side.
"Trapper Valley," said the latter, pointing
CHAPTER XVIII.                to a village of smoky huts that suddenly ap-
T R A P P E R   T R A c E.        peared before them as the bridle-path opened
The way became more difficult, and the upon the valley in question.
night darker; but after winding about aniong  Pathaway gazed at this unexpected scene
mountains, crossing ravines, strips of bottom- with unfeigned surprise.
land and timber, they entered, a narrow bri- " I supposed," he said to his conductress,
di.path-so narrow, indeed, that they were "that the lair of the mountain outlaws was
obliged to ride in single file. Pathaway's farther up, in some rough-hewn cavern among
mind teemed with plans of escape ; but no the rocks."
feasible opportunity seemed likely to occur. " Those who go farther seldom return," an-
Once or twice he thought seriously, when in a swered Carl'ota, in a low voice. " Dismount !"
more open country, to spur his horse and   The gray hunter obeyed with alacrity, and
dash off at full speed, -trusting to luck and offered his hand to Carlota; but refusing the
the darkness to aid his flight.. But so closely proffered gallantry,;she sprang lightly to the

I   t
ii
1'
A
I(1
V }
9e
k A

61

PATHAWAY; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

ground without such aid. Looking around,
he beheld frowns on the faces of half-a-dozen
surly fellows, and Hendricks himself scowled,
as if little pleased with the familiarity of his
prisoner.
"Shall I not hear from-shall I not see you
again ?" Pathaway asked, in a whisper.
Carlota made no nnser; but holding up
her habit daintily, disappeared in one of the
huts. He gazed after her earnestly, as if his
last hope had vanished with her.
"Go along, critter!" growled Hendricks,
pushing him in the direction of a hut that
seemed stronger than the others. "There's
no help fur ye now. If you'd minded your
own consarns and let us alone, there'd been no
trouble ; but you've seen fit to act as spy and
look arter matters- with which you'd no right
to meddle nor make. You and Nick Whifflies
have been sneakin' about this-'ng time ; and
in my 'pinion, had something' to do with the
escape o#' the Frenchman.    Perhaps yon
thought I didn't know him when I see him
last night at Nick's hut ?"
"I knew that something, terrified you,'. an-
swered Pathaway.
"'Tis false ! I was never afeard !" retorted
Hendricks, angrily.
{cI saw you staring at the empty air as if
you saw a ghost," said Pathaway, resolved to
try an experiment.
"That's a lie, too ; for I's lookin' at the boy !"d
"Boy !" repeated the hunter, with affected
surprise.
"1Yes, the handsome boy,"  dded-Captain
Dick, with an inquiring loo.
Pathaway shook his head dubiously.
"You must have seen what the rest of us
did not," lie said, with a perplexed air._
"Bali! do you think I'm blind ? I saw him
as plainly as I see you. Don't fool with me,
mister ; for I ha'n't much patience, and don't
bear contradiction very well when I can have
things my own way."
"I'm afraid you have a bad ednscience, Cap-
tain Hendricks," said Pathaway, reflectively.
"Bad consciences createa thousand fantastic
shapes in the minds of wicked men. However,
I am not your judge ; and I dare say bt too
many things are real that appear to inc illuso-
 ry. You know best whom you have injured,
andl what shapes have a right tohaunt you."
 Hendricks tried to laughs coutenptioushy
hut there was more of fear than contempt in
the hollow sounds that came from his throat.
To save his character for courage, thowever,lhe
let oft a volley of oaths ; in spite of which his
face was pale and his terror obvious.
" Go in, critter," lie added, pointing to the
.hut, " and don't play off on me. As for
wrongin' a boy of his age, I never did. Do
von think we're land-pirates, that we must,'
kill every child we see ?"
", can't comprehend you, Captain Hen-
drieks," answered the hunter, impressively.

The devil you can't !" cried the captain,
furiously.
"fI have heard," resumed Pathaway, with a
shiver, "that murdered people can't rest. I
don't make the remark as having any allusion
to you, Captain; but doubtless you hav e heard
the sanie. It does, in truth, seen just that
the ghosts of the murdered should dog their
murderers day and iight, and give them no
pence. Some have been thus driven to con-
fess crime, and cast themselves into the teeth
of that terrible monster, LAW-that grim dra-
gon that devours without remorse."
"No more sich trumpery stuff!" exclaimed
hendricks. "No sensible person believes in
ghosts. When a man dies, that's the last of
him ; and I'm glad- on't. What kind of a life
do you s'pose a eritter'd lead carter he'd rubbed
out a man or two in skrimmages or t'other-
wise, if their ghosts could come back ag'in,
looking' as pleas death, with eyes fixed and
glassy."
"'la .afraid it's too true!" said Pathaway,
in a low voice. "I had the misfortune to kill
a  an in a duel, and his face," he added, so-
iunly, "I won't leave ine ; it follows, follows,
follows !
f  Jack Wiley! Jack Wiley !" cried Hen-
dric s. "Here, Jack ; take care of this feller
till morning . If you let him  git away, I'll
string you up higher'a Haman!"
sr this time Pathaway was in the hut, and
the person called arose from the floor, where
he hd been sleeping.
"'Tend to business now, Jack, and rub your
eyes arterwards," added the captain. " Here's
a spy i' critter that's goin' to step out afore
the sun sets ag'in, and I want you to keep a
shar seye on hi till he's wanted."
"Jest as you say, Cap'n-" grunted Jack.
estHas lie got any, weeoies about him ?" he
asked, stirring the fire that was burning in the
centre of the hut.
"cYou can see for yourself thathe's got
nothin' but his hands," replied Hendricks.
nout if you're afraid you can't keep him with
your pistols and your gun, call up one or two
of the boys to help."
"Why don't you do for him to-nmght, and
that'll save the trouble of watchin'?- It's very
simple-a half-ounce o' lead, you know."
Do as I tell ye !" answered Hendricks,
sharply, and without stopping to parley longer
with his subordinate, walked aw.av.
The fire flared up brightly. Wiiey looked at
the face of his prisoner. It's you, is it ?" he
said. "Seed you with that tall hunter and the
boy. Your name's Pathaway, Runaway, or
some sich name. Well, you've gt into a nice
fix, now. Don't expect to live long, doa ye ?"
" 1 don't despair entirely."
"You'd better. The best advice I can give
ye, is to make up your mind to sleep soundly
in this 'ere valley."
" No ; I cannot resign myself to that ! I


62

TATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

am young yet, and there ought to be many
good years of life before me.
The gray hunter glanced at Wiley, to see i
there was compassion in his 'face ; but it was
as sombre as the walls of the hut.
"You look like an honest man, Mr. Wiley ?'
" But I ain't;' I'm a scoundrel ! I don't
thank no man to call me honest. Set down,
and don't be starin' about as if you's lookin
for a hole to dodge out on. These playthings '
-he looked at his pistols--" has got lead in
'em, and powder ahind it."-
The gray hunter seated himself by the fire,
Jack Wiley having already taken a position
near the door, with his pistols and rifle beside
him.
" When we met before, it was in a friendly
manner, and in company with one who had
done you an important service. Let us be
reasonable. Fortune has thrown me into your
power ; let us talk over the matter calmly,
and it may appear that you cannot do a better
thing than to befriend me. There is no per-
son so assured in good luck but the time may
come when he, may nped friends. Tell me
how much it is worth to you to stay here and
be an outlaw, with a vision of the gallows'con-
tinually before you, and I will make it twice
that sum beyond the mountains, where, instead
of a haunting shadow of a felon's death, you
shall have peace and security. Contrast that
with your present condition."
" Does freedom go for nothin', eh ?"
" Does your neckgo for nothing ?" returned
Pathaway. " Can you sleep without dreaming
of halters ? Is it not better to feel like an
honest man than like a rogue ? Were I in
your place, Jack Wiley, I should strangle in
my dreams."
" But you won't ! you'll strangle wide awake !
Uh !" -
Wiley yawned, and looked sleepily at the
hunter.
" It's all very pooty," he added ; " but you
can't go I Why can't ye ? 'Cause you can't!"
" You don't talk like a man of sense. You
speak -like one whose brain 'is muddled with
liquor. What greater freedom do you want,
than the freedom of the whole civilized world,
with money in your purse and a good coat to
your back ?"
" You don't understand me at all, Mr. Patha-
way, nor how a mountaineer likes the life he's
a)lers been used to. What could a rough fel-
ler like me do lown in the settlements ? What
would Jack Wiley be good for, there ? . Who'd1
think anything of him, eh ? Could he wear
rat-skin gloves, and stiff hats, and shiny boots?
Could he go into drawin'-rooms any more nor
a grizzlf bear ? Would anybody tike off their
hat~ to him ? No ; they'd laugh, and say :
' There comes a wild varmint from the moun-
tains ! That 'd be minhty fine, wouldn't it?
I could stan' that, couldn't I ?. Wah! wal l!"
"Not so bad as that," 'replied Pathaway,

considerably staggered  by this argument.
" One soon  learns the ways of civilized
f life."
" No civilization for me ! Give me the Nor'-
west and the red Ingin beauties, and I'm satis-
fied. None o' your pale, sickly lqokin' white
squaws for Jaek Wiley ; there's no sweetness
in sich; it's bleached out of 'em by the clear-
in's. The brown beauties forever ! So don't
talk no more. You're in for it and can't
help it ; so make up your mind, and hang like
a reasonable being . What's the use botlierin'
me ? Want to get me into a scrape, I s'pose ?
The captain is a devil of a feller when he's
disapp'inted, and the distance is long that 'd
prevent his findin' me if I should play him a
trick. When you go a swimmin' in cold water,
you musn't stan' shiverin' on the bank, but
plunge right in, and it's all over in an instant.
It's jes' sc with hangin'."
" I hoped," said Pathaway, regretfully,
" that you had a heart, to be touched by the
misfortunes of a fellow-creature, but perceive
that I wab mistaken. I was about to offer you
a thousand dollars for freedom."
"A thousand dollars !" repeated Jack, slow-
ly. " That's a right smart pile, mister.
There's a good many drunken frolics in a thou-
sand dollars-a tearin' visit to Selkirk or Mon-
treal."
",A thousand, in gold !" added the hunter.
"Do you happen to have it about ye ?"
asked Wiley, with a quick look.
"Thank Heaven, no ! I'm not so silly a
fish. If I had so much money on my person,
I should be wise enough to keep it to myself.
I would not offer a reward for my own mur-
der, by proclaiming such a fact. Therecyou
look more comfortable now ; you startled m
a moment ago by the eagerness of your eyes.
I have not sufficient money in my pocket to
buy a pint of your beloved beverage, whisky;
but I know where to find it, Jack."
" Don't bother ! lay down and go to sleep,
so that .your narves ma  be 'strong in the
mornin'. I'm not the kind o' bird' that's
ketched with salt or chaff."
" Well, have your own way," said Pathaway,
sternly. " That bullet head of yours willrun
your 'head into a noose, yet. 1 may not be
' resent to see it, but feel assured that it will
e so. I will no longer attempt to appeal to
your cupidity or to touch your humanity.
You have proved yourself a heartless wretch
in the hour of my need, but it's not impossi..
ble that the next revolution in the wheel of
fortune may change our relative positions.
"Sartin it '11 change 'em!" interrupted
Jack, with brutal indifference. "You'll be up
and I'll be down ; but your toes won't tet.h
the ground, and mine will."
To this allusion Pathaway made no reply,
but disposing his person as comfortably as he
could, began to think those thoughts that those
think who feel they are approaching the

I
,vo -

.a
cs
s-
z y

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE
crowning and last pain of human life, with all'
its after revelations.
CHAPTER XIX.
CARLOTA.
Persons in positions.of danger are prone to,
think of the good and evil of their lives, and
to draw a balance in favor of one-or the other.
Pathaway did not attempt a very nice adjust-
ment of his moral accounts ; but felt, as all
right-thinking men do in seasons of extremity,
genuine regret that his life had been so barren
of results, and so little productive of happi-
ness to others. Because he indulged in re-
flections of this kind, he did not abandon all
hope of escape, but revolved many plans, in
his mind.
Wiley maintained his position near the en-
trance of the hut, with his weapons ostenta-
tiously paraded beside him ; but the man was
heavy with sleep. Ilis recent visit to the
world of dreams, and his sudden recall by
Captain Hendricks, had left a lethargy upon
his brain that continually urged him to a re-
lapse into the same oblivious state. His first
nap was to him like the first glass of the ine-
briate-giving him a strong inclination to a
second. But he had a duty to perform which
it would be dangerous to neglect. Mentally,
he firmly determined that sleep should not
close his eyelids till he was relieved of his
charge. To keep the invidious enemy at
arm's length, he arose and stood upon his
feet ; tiring of that position, and feeling forti-
fied against surprise, he resumed his seat and
smoked-stealing, without seeming to do so,
frequent glances at his prisoner, to see if he
would not so far forget his troubles as to yield
to the soothing power of slumber; for it ap-
peared to him that a sleeping man was more
easily guarded than one wide awake.
-As the night wore on, the gray hunter seem-
ed disposed to accommodate his keeper ; his
head gradually sank upon the floor, and his
respiration was certainly indicative of slumber.
Jack rejoiced at this, and .though resolutely
bent upon wakefulness, naturally employed
less effort to maintain that condition. .Ie be-
gan to nod, but had at first frequent brighten-
ings-up ; the latter grew less frequent, until
his chin rested upon his chest, and he was
fairly conquered. It was when his heavy
breathing gave notice of this fact, that Patha-
way's eyes unclosed. The sleep was genuine ;
there was no mistaking it. Pathaway raised
himself upon his elbow, in effecting which his
foot unintentionally came in contact with a
fagot, making a slight noise that was sufficient
to startle the. sentinel, who .straightened up
galvanically and yawned. Pathaway fell back
to his former position, and Jack, having an in-
distinct consciousness that all was right, was
overpowered again in aninstant. There's no-
thing one covets so much as sleep when it is
forbidden; it becomes a thing inexpressibly

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                      .68
desirable, and to Wiley it was more-irresisti-
ble.
Warned by his previous experiment, the
prisoner acted with greater carefulness and
quickness. As if by a single movement, he
was on his feet and advancing upon Wiley,
who, unfortunately for the former, carried into
his dreams a wholesome fear of the wrath of
Captain Hendricks. Pathaway was not con-
scious that he made the slightest poise ; but
something warned his watcher of danger-his
instincts or his previously whetted sensibilities
-for he sprang up like an automaton operated
by springs, yet too late for successful resist-
ance ; for the hand of the young man was at
his throat before he could grasp a weapon.
He bore him to the ground, and the fellow felt
fingers of steel upon his mouth before he could
give the alarm, and knees planted like"iron
posts upon his chest.
"Be silent !" said Pathaway. "One sound
from your lips seals your fate. Mind what I
say ! It is with me a matter of life and death ;
and if necessity calls for it, I shall not hesitate
to sacrifice you as I would a beast of prey I"
Pathaway took his hand from Viley's mouth,
and drew a bowie that he had concealed at his
back, between his hunting-frock and person.
The brightness of the blade dazzled the eyes
of the outlaw, and was the strongest argument
for his silence that could have been employed.
Jack knew his man; he saw his nerve, his
power, his quickness of action, his firmness of
purpose, at a glance ; it was revealed to him
by the blazing light in his eyes. He would
have spoken and said: .I give up! .  give
up !" but could not, for the metallic fin-
gers pressed him to suffocation. , He made a
consenting movement of the head, and the
hunter relaxed the rigor of his grasp.
" For God's sake, don't kill me !" he gasped.
"Your life," answered Pathaway, " depends
entirely on your obedience. Open your mouth
---you must be= gagged."
Wiley wished to remonstrate, but deadly
fear kept him mute. He obeyed the imperious
order with a helpless, humiliated reluctance
that needed no interpreter.   The - hunter
crowded in without ceremony a large piece of
buckskin, cut from the ruffian's own hunting-
frock. There was no feminine delicacy or
softness about the operation ; it was prompt,
rough, and efficacious.
1" Turn'upon your faceI" said Pathaway,
withdrawing his weight fromhis chest.
With a sullen rattling in his thrott--the new
application was too thoroughly made to pro-
duce anything but an uncomfortable sense of
strangulation-Wiley -rolled over, *hen the
hunter cut two stout strips from the back of
the garment that had already contributed to
his convenience, with one of which he.tied his
wrists, while the other performed the same of-
fice for his feet. It was not an emergency that
allowed of being careful -about trifles, and it


64               PATIAWAY ; OR, TILE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.
may be confidently asserted that the ligatures  "But if I choose to raise my voice and say :
were not daintily applied ;- therefore, if they "Ho-"
were tightly drawn, and the hard knots sank  "Pathaway sprang forward, and put-"his
into the flesh, the circumstances furnished a hand over her mouth.
ready excns'e.                              "Emergencies require prompt action," he
When Wiley floundered over upon his back said, with sternness.
again, his squint eye had a more marked obli-.  She did not stir, made no effort to shake
quity than usual.  He tried to form words, him off, but stood, calm, disdainful, dignified.
which resulted only in a kind of pectoral mar-  Pathaway held her by the wrist.
mur. The hunter bent %over hint a moment,   " Before the matter of life and death, all other
with a smile of, triumph had contempt.   subjects sink into insignificance," he added.
" You see, rascal," he said, " that things " We even sacrifice other lives to save our
change sometimes quicker than we anticipate. own."
Not long since you were my jailor ; now it is'  " I know !" returned Carl6ta, coldly. " Car-
-different. Had-you' been the prisoner and I l6ta,'the wild girl of the niountains, cannot be
the sleepy sentinel, you would have killed me." influenced by menace."
The young'hunter paused,.thrust Jack's pis-  " Then, by Heaven! I will use.the strength
tols into his'belt, appropriated his ammuni- that Nature has given me to some purpose !"
tion, and took his rifle, then added:       Pathaway threw his right arm around her
"One blow would end your miserable exist- waist, and was in the act of covering her
ence, but JI forbear. I shall stop at the out- mouth with his left hand, when she said
side of the hut' a short time to see -how you " Stop !" with so much imperiousness, that the
behave. If you struggle and try to get out-  last movement was arrested.
I'll-isit you again !"                     "What would you have ?" she asked, in a
There was too much meaning in the man's voice that, through some emotion, was tremu-
voice to admit of doubt, although the threat Ious. "Is there nothing to compel woman
was used more to intimidate than' otherwise ; but threats? Did I say I would betray you ?"
for the hunter did not .stop at the door only  She looked deprecatingly at the hunter.
long enough to determineupon the direction to  " You were about to call for help-to sound
pursue; then moved quickly and softly away.  the alarm through'the encampment," returned
The night lay still .anddark on the outlaw  Pathaway.
encampment.' The ,supper-fires had waned    "You did not allow me to proceed ; my
and -died out,:afid the gorged and weary moun- say remained unsaid. I was about to tell you
taineers were wrapped-in slumber. ' he hour thatI had only to call out, 'Ho; mountain-
was favorable,.and Pathaway's heart beat fast eers-'"
with gratitude, as his eyes swept from hut to  "for, God's sake, girl, desist !" cried the
hut and- took in the scene. They had long hunter, 'again stopping her.
been used to security, which had never been  "Did I raise my vice above its natural
disturbed, probably, by the intrusion of ene- tone ?" she, asked, in a voice of rebuke.
mies since they adopted their: lawless trade. " Could I not have shrieked before this as wo-
In their 'fastnses they were safe, and Sleep man only can shriek ? Was it in your power,
came to themmwithout the companionship of or is it now, to hinder me from sending a
Fear.                                    thrill of life and activity through yonder si-
The young man remembered the stories he lent camp ?"
had heard of the difficulty of gettingout of  . Carlota drew' herself up' more and more,
the valley when once in it ; but he apprehend- and spoke in the voicer:of a Woman who feels
ed no serious trouble in finding Trapper Trace herself wounded in a sensitive part of her na-
-the key to the home of the outlaws. He .ture.
passed onward rapidly, and the huts were fad-  " Carl6ta !" answered''Pathaway, changing
ing from view, When a figure-appeared in the his manner to one.more friendly, " I believe I
darkness. It was a woman-it, was Carldta ! have mistaken you';,if I have, forgive me,
Pathaway experienced a sickening sense of die- and allow me to depart without delay. Con-
appointment, Was he. perceived?, Possibly, aider my position.  einember that at your
not.' He' stood 'still, hoping that the, night request I spared the life of Hendricks-your
would prove his shield. She had discovered father,, husband,'or, lover, I know not which.
him-she Approached, with uncertainty at first, I appeal to your complassion ; I throw myself
with decision as she drew near. Her manner upon your mercy!"
was indicative'of surprise.            -   "Not till threats had failed ; ,not till you
Be silent !" said Pathaway, authoritative- had laid a rough hand upOn me !" answered
ly, in tones suppressed"and penetrating.  . the girl, gloomily.
"Do, you command ?" answered Carl6ta,    "It was the instinct ofself-preservation--
haughtily.                               an instinct ever active 'and always pardon-
" You are a woman; do not force me to able."
treat you as if you were not. I am escaping,  "But not easily forgotten," she said, in as-
and I eil not be baffled !"             cents slightly sneering.

;
; 4
'
: '   r
4,, .
:,%
p
L   ,
,c
:,-  -
"


PATHAWAY; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAW'
" Girl! girl ! every moment is inexpressib-  "It is as I suspee
ly valuable. You are detaining me in the ing the ground with h
very jaws of death."                     and intentions are ea
Have you asked my assistance ?" asked joining at this mome
Carl6ta, with a proud glance at the young man. successfulreturn with
" Yes, I have-I do !" returned the hunter, at your back-a par
earnestly.                                from the nearest mil
"And if I interpose no obstacle, will you heard rumors that a
find your way from the Valley, think you ?"  sent against us by th
"Do -not doubt it ! . Once in the bridle- meat. In this manner
path, and I am safe ; for I am hardy, experi- my good offices."
enced, and wift."                            I will promise," r
"I have heard of your exploits. Yo\ are "to lead no troops or a
brave and steady, but you do not understand but I cannot pledge
the ways of woman. Follow me  "          Trapper Valley myself
Carl'ta turned and walked from the en- Carota," he added,
N         campment toward Trapper Trae, Pathaway   own presence here may
treading in her footsteps with silent yet ex- with my movements.
cessive surprise.                           "Enough! enough!
Presently they came to a hors  ade  n   erpe     h    il e
bridled.                                  compliment cannot dec
" What means this ?" Pathaway inquired, will make me angry.
"Can you not imagine why this animal is exact nothing. Remain
here ?" answered Carlota, curtly.         and I will scnd you o
"Dare I believe that you meditated my es- faithfully to the camp
cape, and provided this horse for the pur-  "Woman will be wo
pose ?"                                   away.  "Pardon me,
"Believe what you will; the creature is subject of which it
now yours."                               speak; -it has too long
"'This is kind-this is generous! I com- citement of the night.
plained too soon of your ingratitude."    man's daughter I woul
"Say nothing !" replied the girl, proudly.  "This is no time f
"A mistake once made is made forever." She ing," replied Carl6ta, h
paused and struggled with some powerful feel- startled by the query
ing. " I will provide you with a guide," she know this Ninon ?" she
added.                                    voice.
Pathaway looked up uneasily; she noticed -"I never saw her,"
the -lance, and coloring, remarked:       the claims of. common
"Still suspicious of treachery. Your sex  strongly in her behalf.
is ever ready to do injustice to ours. You  fate? Will you, can
4         tempt me to abandon you. Don't answer, for her? Portneuf escape
the night wears on. I must exact one condi- "Hendricks was right
tion of you."to fear from you. This
"Condition ? I thought a woman was un- betrayed him; but no
conditional; that what she does is on trust Do not stir till the guide
and free." Carl6ta walked away
"In matters that relate only to herself, it out of sight, hidden by
Smay be so ; but where others are concerned, terposing trees.    .
it is different. These men must not be betray-
ed. You must promise that you will not re-
turn with hostile intentions."                        CHAPTE
Clrl6ta considered him with earnest atten-            INDIAN
tion. It being dark, she advanced her face Pathaway awaited the
close to his to catch its expression.    ised guide, not without
Do you hesitate ?" she asked.         Perhaps she had change
" You put me in a painful position," an- send, not a guide, but
swered Pathaway, much embarrassed. "While take him back to eaptiv
I do not wish to refuse a request of my bene- ces. His anxiety grew
factress, I should be wanting in duty to man- and his doubts a be
kind did I give the pledge you require. It when the sound of hor
would give me pleasure, truly, to drive out him that some one app
these bad -men and bring safety to the lone pistol, an unnecessary
hunter and trapper, and avenge the wrongs of horseman proved the
those who have fallen victims to their wanton- Indian boy of fourteen
ness and cupidity." age.

VS.                67
ted 1" said Carl6ta, beat-
er foot. "Your thoughts
sily read. You are're-
-nt in anticipation of a
overpowering numbers
'ty of soldiers, perhaps,
itary post ; for I have
n expedition' was to: be
United States govern.
you purpose to 'repay
eplied Pathaway anon,
rmed men against you;
my word not to vsit
f. And you forget, fair,
playfully, " that your
have something to do
Charms like yours--."
Don't insult me !":in-
ientfully. "An empty
eive me, but hypocrisy
I waive all pledges!; I
n here a few moments,
ne that will guide you
of your friend."
nan !" murmured Path.
Carlkta, there is one
were unmanly not to
escaped me in the ex.
It is of the French-
I ask ?"
or continued question.
urriedly, and evidently
" Do you-do' you
added, dropping her
said Pathaway, " but
humanity appeal to me
What.has been .her
ou do nothing to save
d ; I have seen him."
; he has indeed much
is the first time I ever
matter ; it is done.
e joins you."
quickly and was soon
the darkness and in-
R XX.
JOE.
coming of the prom-
t feelings of distrust.
d her mind and would
a party of outlnwa to
ity ana its consequen.
momentarily greater,
gun to assume reality,
'ses' feet admonished
reached. He drew a
precaution, - for the
expected guide -- an
or fifteen 'years of


68        PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

"Come from white squaw ; show pale face
the way," said the boy, taking his place in ad-
vance      .
"Carl6ta' sent you," said Pathaway, quite
assured that there was no mistake.
" Joe tell you once ; no tell same thing
twice. Ingin no ask question ; white man
ask question," answered the boy, curtly.
Perceiving that his guide was not disposed
to talk, the gray hunter followed him silently,
thinking of Carl6ta, of Sebastian, Nick, and
many other things connected with his recent
experiences.
It was near morning, and the young Indian
made what haste he could, urging his horse to
a gallop when the way permitted. In many
places the path was dlancrous, but the ani-
malsi appeared accustomed' t traveling it, and
bore them onward with sure and trusty feet.
The day dawned at the moment they were
leaving the Trace, amid at this point the-hunter
supposed that his guide would leave him ; but
he kept on before, choosing with evident skill
the most accessible ways, and directing his
course, as he' could readily perceive, toward
the spot where he had met Hendricks the pre-
vious night. The sun was high in the hea-
vens when they reached the scene of the con-
test.-
"Here, I suppose, we shall part," said Path-
away..
"No part; Joe go on," replied the boy,
composedly.,.                 - -
" But you'll be missed. What account will
you give of your absence ? If Captain Hen-
dricks should know of your agency in this
matter, I fear you would not come off with
whole skin."
"Joe no 'fraid Cap'n. Go with you to white
man's camp-Nick, you call him."
Joe glanced at Pathaway, then looked fixed-
ly at 'his horse's head.'
"6Did your mistress-did Carl6ta bid you
attend me so far ?"asked the hunter.
" Tole mnc stay longr's I pleased. Peirhaps
Joe no go back ; perhaps he go here. there,
everywhere-no know where he go. Be war-
rior sometime."
"Then you are at liberty to do as you
wish V" answered the hunter, who had been so
rncuh preoccupied during the ride that he
had bestowed little notice upon Joe ; but now
thought it worth while to observe him more
closely. He was a well-clad, *ell-formed lad,
who looked capable of making his way in the
world as efficiently as any of his race. His
long black hair hung straight and curlless
upon his face and neck. He was quite dark,
even for an Indian, andold enough to delight
in paint and plumes. He had, clearly, been a
favorite at the Valley, else he would not have
been tricked out so bravely.
-spoke only for your good. I care not to
urge you toreturn to those lawless men ; but
you are too young to go on the war-path, and

your, tribe may be distant," added Pathaway,
presently.
" Can hunt, fish, take care hisself, Joe can.
No need mind 'bout Joe."
"How loing since you left your people ?"
asked Patbaway.
"Two, three,'four moons ago. White squaw
give me clothes. Plenty to eat ; no work ;
Joe no like work. Let squaw do work."
The young Indian touched his horse with
his hand and quickened his movements, so
that the hunter was obliged  put his own
into. a gallop to keep pace with him. In a
short time they rode up to Nick. Whifiles'
hut. Nick stood in the door, rifle in hand.
His pleasure and astonishment were- about
equal.
eI'd about give ye up, by gracious !" he
exclaimed.  "Took a tramp arter ye last
night and was jest -startin' ag'in. Reckoned
you'd turn up ; told Sebastian so, but he
wouldn't hear to it, as 'twere, and nothmin'
would pacify him. Consarned funny boy, he
is !  And not funny, neither, but peculiar
constituted.  He' didn't sleep a wink last
night; but jest set by the fire and moped,
goin' to the door every five minutes to look
and listen. - Been on the war-path, I allow ?
Come back with two hosses and a prisoner.
Well, you're welcome,-ariyway. What's been
the difikilty?"
Sebastian came out while Nick was making
these observations ; his first impulse, obvi-
ously, was to run and seize Pathaway's hand,
but he checked it, and stopped in an attitude
indicative of surprise and joy.
The hunter hastened to greet him.
"What kind o' baggage you got here ?"
asked Nick, eyeing the Indian sharply.
Joe had not dismounted; he was looking
earnestly at Sebastian.
"This dark-skinned youth has been my
guide from Trapper Valley," replied Patha-
way.
Trapper Valley !" exclaimed Seba'stian,
clasping his hands, recoiling, and fixing his
attention upon the guide.
The hunter observed the start and sudden
change of attitude.
" So you have been in the Valley and got
back alive ?" said Nick ; " and that's 'stomish-
ii'. Ingin boy"-to Joe-" hop down anid let-
me see what you look like."
The boy did not honor this mandate with
the least attention; but immediately,, in obe-
dience to a sign from Iatlhaway, sprang light-
ly to the ground.
"A right nice-'pearin' boy ; though I must
say, there's a slight tetch of dandyism about
him, and uses more paint nor is'needful on
common occasions. Trot round a little, young-
ster, and let me see your paces," added Nick,
eyeing the boy in his own whimsical manner,
who, during this address, was staring at Se-
bastian. In fact, a duel of eyes was persist-

PATHAWAY; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.-69
ently going on between the half-breed and sunset, on the very spot where we then stood,.
Joe.                                      which was a beautiful level, coyered withway-
So you've been to the Valley ?" said ing grass. We met; I was-the, victor ; my
Nick, abruptly changing th  subject. "Jest adversary stood disarmed before me."
turn but the beasts, and let le hear all about  Up to this point, the Indian boy had shown
it. My own a1imile is gender, and they 'l little interest ; ho now looked steadily at Path-
soon make friends, I allow. No danger their away.
running' off. That's it ! throw the bridles and  'iHendricks was at my mercy, when a wo-
saddles down there. Now, sir, what have you  man interposed to save him."
seen and heerd ?"                           "Carldta! Carl.ta._!" muttered Portneuf,
Sebastian pointed at Pathaway's hunting- who had joined them a moment before ; for
frock with  pmething like a cry of terror ; this conversation took place outside .of the
Nick, following the direction of the lad's fin- hut.
ger, observed that there were several perfora-  "Yes, it was the girl Carldta ; 'and, before I
tions in it, which had the appearance of hav- was aware of danger, I was surrounded by the
ing been made by a sharp instrument.      outlaws of Trapper Valley."
A difaikilty, I swear to gracious " cried  "Wicked woman !" exclaimed Sebastian.
Nick. " I am, and allers was, right abbut the  The yugoung Indian dartid an angry glance
nitter o' diffikilties. Every man must have at him.
'em; they will come ; you can't keep 'em    "I was a prisoner," returned Pathaway;
off.  Yes, they begin the very minute the " and, after going a short distance, was mount-
crown of one's headdtouches the atmosphere. ed and -conducted to Trapper Valley by its
The fast breath is drawed with diffikilty, as eastern, and to us unknown, entrance."
well as the last. Then comes teethin', and  " What-did you see ?" inquired Nick.
whoopin'-cough, and measles-mumps, scarlet  " Only a few smoke-colored huts standing
fever, and vaccination. Then there's the very- not far from Trapper Trace, which is to the
lord-which is sometimes worse nor the very  Valley like a little rill emptying into a lake.
devil-not to mention cuts,. and bumps, and All the mysteries of the place were not re-
liekin's at school. Speakia' o' bumps, reminds vealed to me.  They kept from  me the
mec that I allers had.' a pesky dispersition to knowledge of their most secret. lurking-
tumble down when I's a little un. I's a fust- places.".'
rate climber, but that was 'all the worse for  "No doubt," said Nick. "I allow them
me ; for the furder I got up, thl furder I had lurkin'-places is not fr from the spot whore
to fall. There's wasn't a pair o' stairs in the  we found Porteuf."u o   p   w
house that I hadn't gone down rattlety-bang  "I was placed under the guidance of Jack
'fore i's 'levenamonths old. Neighbors used  Wiley, with the promise of a short shriftland
to think we was l'arnin' to play the bass- a sure cord in the morning. He slept ; I
drum-there was sich a continooal thumpin' overpowered and bound him, I left the hut
and clatterin' about the premises. And sick and was hastening away, when I mnets-.1'
a Voice as I had when I's two year old! It   nWho did you meet ?" cried Sebastian, im-
was so developed by p'ison diffi.il es.that it patiently.r
had the power and vollum of a bassoon played  The young Indian regarded the lad with a
by a critter as had no regard for the human lowering brow.,
race. You'd oughter heerd me arter fallin'  " Carl6tay the female outlaw," added Patha.
from an apple-tree or a gum-spruce ! Wasn't Wray.'
it music, by mighty! Sebastian, don't gape  "What did she say                  ' what did she do 9"
at that Ingin so; Ingin, don't gape at Sebas- asked Sebastian, whose interest in the narra
tiaii. Have knowed boys to fall down in fits tion increased.
bysstarin' at each other in that way.-You've  "I did-not quite comprehend hernature. I
broke the thread of my remarks by your ill dwas itsavage  ehwith her at first;'but shetaught
manners. Your hun~ti'-frock is a good 'eal m     ae- leonh                 a
hacked up, Pathaway."                       Joe's eyes glistened likelire.
Nick paused, and kept glancing from the   "The woman was not all dead in Ca   :
two -boys to the hunter in a somewhat anxious she had already s planned my escape and I
fashion. came near marring the whole by sy iapetu-
.To'tell you all in a few words, I encoun- osity."
tered the fellow Hendricks yesterday.  We  "Was this--thi- Carl-ta t     leader of
had words ; he was insolent--..I knocked him mountain outlaws--this masculine woman-..
down."    -     -o was she, I soy, handsome ?" demanded .oeba-
"I'm glad of that, by gracious !" interposed  tian Delaunay. o d       d
Nick. "You'd oughter knocked him arter he  The boy Joe- did not take his
was dom."                                from Pathaway: there might have been bth
fSebastian was leaning forward, listening in- curiosity and eagernes in the glitter s  t
"tentarato this graphic account.         black. eyes.
"Aarrcan  a meig t'tkepe at          I never thought" eeriouslyod that,",4


PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.    71

Patliway, smiling ; " but now, as I recall her
features, one by one, I pronounce her pretty.
To speak more intelligibly, she has a certain
wild beauty that many of our sex could not
dare'with impunity.  She is brilliant and
dashing ; and there are those easily dazzled
by such qualities." Then to Joe : " What
think you, boy? Is your mistress hand-
some ?"
The glittering eyes suddenly sought the
ground, rested there a short time, then re-
turned, inquiringly, to Pathaway.
"To them that like her, she -handsome ; to
them that no like her, no handsome."
Joe shot another eye-bolt at Sebastian.
"What do you care whether she's handsome
or t'otherwise, little un ? You a'n't old'nough
togo courtin' yet ; and if you was, I wouldn't
never give my consent for you to marry a fe-
male captain of pirates. No honest gal would
keep sieh company. Oh Lord, no ?"
A little stream of humor purled from Nick's
eyes.       '
ey The long and -short on't was," he added,
"she give ye a guide and a hose to ride ; and
so eier ye are, safe and sound. Now I'll wa-
ger "Smuggler gin a common pup, that you
made a p'ison difikilty in the gal's breast;
and not diffikilty neither, but a commotion in
her -bussom ; and not her bussom exactly, but
her heart-which is a muskle condemned apt
to sit out o' kilter."
Stbastian smiled, and Indian Joe changed
his position uneasily.
" The girl is wanting neither in sense nor
beauty," remarked Pathaway ; "and I am not
the man to believe that I make a conquest in
every quarter where I may receive a favor.
She is surely a wonderful creature, both in
conversation and spirit ; and her language is
sufficient evidence that she has not always as-
ioatd with such characters."
",I did'nt seeher but one or two time," said
Portneuf;-' " but I s'all say, that I think she
look 'at me kind. She has--what you call
him f-courage-le grand courage. I have
1ifee  waitin" and waitin', but you have not
speak of my child one time-nevare, nevare I"
The 1renehman displayed much emotion.
-"Believe -me, my friend, it was because I
had nothing to say. I would gladly have re-
lieved your paternal anxiety had it been in
my-ower. Bring no news of Ninon."
Thevoice of Andrew Jeanjean came plaint-
ively from the hut; he was singing:
"Ohl, the trapper's daughter-
Oh, the trapper's daughter !"
"Our camp-fire ihust rise somewhere else
to-iotrow night," said Nick, thou htfully.
Snmoggler came out and barked, while the
hoiee (atist turned loose), which had strayed
nort ist nce:from the camp,.erected their
and ears,' and - evinced signs of fear.
P thaway looked beyond them, and beheld
amystribus grizzly bear.

CHAPTER XXI.
INDIAN JOE AT CAMP.
A curious part assembled at the morning
.neal. Individua ly, they were singularly un.
like, yet each manifested a noticeable interest
in the other, Nick was uneasy, though con-
tinually striving to appear cheerful, endeav-
oring to inspirit the rest by his humorous sal-
lies and unique stories. -Pathaway was seri-
ous, Portneuf sad, Sebastian timid and 'at.
times agitated, Indian Joe inquisitive with his
eyes, taciturn with his lips, while the face of
Andrew Jeanjean wore its usual mild and un-
meaning expression. Each was watchful of
the other without wishing to have the fact
perceived. Sebastian unquestionably, shrank
from the presence of Joe- is frequent flushes
and evident perturbation being a source of an-
noyance and anxiety to Nick.
" It's them mean chills ag'in," he said in an
aside voice to Pathaway, but which was au-
dible to all present ; "and not the chills, nei-
ther, but the hot stage of the disorder."
The gray hunter hinted that he had not be-
fore referred to this particular intermittent as
affecting the lad, but had alluded to whoop-
ing-cough and measles as the active agents of
his infirmities.
"You misunderstood me, colonel !"-Nick
often addressed Pathaway by this title-" you
sartinly did."
He shook his head gravely, as if he knew
he was doomed to be misinterpreted gener-
ally.
" I think I know as well's another what ails
hir. It's ager-ager in its most voilent and
chromatic form. 'Tisn't the kind they have
in the clearin's, but ager run wild in the Nor'-
west. I seed a whole tribe of Ingins shook to
bits with it some twenty odd year ago. Fust
they shook off an arm or a leg, then the arms
and legs kept right on shakin' on their own
responsibility, as 'twere.  It was a stirrin'
spettakle, I tell ye! I passed over the ground
the next day, and you couldn't -find a piece
bigger'n your finger, nor two that could be
put together ag'in as they 'riginally b'longed.
It looked as if it had rained Ingins there for
more'n a week. But the little chunks wasn't
quiet by, no means ; each individooal one,
quiverin' as though life depended on't. I'm
'ware that this don't 'pear natril, and I don't
insist on your b'lievin' it verbattim et scatter-
atim, which, by the way, is, all the Latin I
haven't forgot, though Doctor Whiffles can
reel it off to ye by the yard. Ah, sich a man
as the doctor was for a speech ! Speeches
a'n't of much 'count up here, but at Selkirk
and other clearin's they carry all afore 'em.
He was captain of a fire company, my brother
was-that was afore ho received his degree ;
and 'tiyasn't afore, neither ; for com#o think
on't, I b'lieve he never got;a diplomy, though
he'd oughter, by mighty?,On.the 'casion I
refer to, he presented tin trumpet to the

former captain. He come on with his speech
all writ, and full o' confidence, though his
j'ints shook like prison. I wasn't there, but
e talked beautiful, barrio' losm' his place a
few times,.which ruther took him off his pins,
as 'twere.  He wasn't a critter to be put
down, not'stannin' his - condemned mem'ry,
which would on'y hold a sartin number of
syllables at a time. He talked of danger,'
flames, and water, then of water, flames, and
danger, which give it a inteestin' variety.
Then the way he handled burnin' houses was
prodigious, rushin' through walls o' solid
blaze, scattering' firebrands right and left, res-
zum' sleeping' families, and tossin' babies from
the garret wonders to be ketched by the mul-
titude below. What a effort that would a
been if his thumb hadn't slipped at some o'
the most startlin' p'ints ! Oh Lord, yes1"
".No doubt," said Pathaway, absently, for
during Nick's episode he had been studying
the features of Andrew Jeanjean. " What do
you think we had better do ?" he added, ab-
rua tly.          ..        -   .    .
Ii1eholas glanced significantly at the Indian
boy.
" I don't think that it's a good plan to dis-
cuss matters of this kind afore strangers."
" I'll answer for his fidelity !" replied Path-
away.
"That's more'n .I'll do !" returned Nick,
dryly.
" An Indian s an Indian !" exclaimed Sebas-
tian, pointing.
Nick looked up and saw Multnomah, the
Shoshone, standing at the door.
" Come in, Ingin-come in! There's allers
room at my table for one pnore, though I
ha'n't o fairly to housekeeping . Flop down
and take your chance with us. Sonny"-to'
Sebastian-" can't you saw off another slice,
and don't be so keerful about s'iln' your fin-
gers."
"No stay-no eat," answered the Shoshone,
gravely. "Multnomah would speak to Dou.
bledark."
"He hears ye, Ingin; speak on. Any signs
of a diffikilty, eh ?"
"The Shoshone has hunted and trapped with
Doubledark, He is his friend and brother."
" True, true ! And barring' the color your
skin, which isn't 'cordin' to natur-my natur,
leastwise-you're as honest a human-Ingins
in course is human-as can be diskivered
atween here andthe  Big Red. I know you've
got a weakness for skulps, but the best on us
has failin's."
Nicholas regarded the Shoshone with friend-
ly eyes--eyes that expressed far more than
what he was saying.   ento Pathaway :
. T, ere's them that would not trust that In-
gi    use he isn't what he isn't, which is a
white man : but, Lord bless ye, that skin o'
hlis'n isn't thicker nor a sheet o' a r ; and
arter-you git inside on't you can't tellthe dif-

ferenee. Take that In''n and skin him, and
I'll defy anybody to tell what race he b'longs
to."
"It is not the skin'that makes Ingindalugin
inside. Nick love one thing, Multnomah an-
other. The prairie wolf is not like the buffalo,
nor the panther like the'antelope," said the
Shoshon.
"It may be so ; we won't dispute about it;
but the inside of one watch is a good 'cal like
the inside of another, though some'll run faster
nor others: There's clocks, too, but the watch
principle is in clocks, I allow."
" Brother, I did not come to talk of- the
way in which the Great Spirit has made us.
Have you seen no clouds in the sky ? Will.it
be fair to-morrow ?"
Nick and the Shoshons looked at each
other.
"Ingin, the heavens are not clear ; there
are dark places up aloft ; there are signs in
the east," said the former.
,i" I am glad that Doubledark is not blind.
If he sees, why is he here ? Why does he
not   to a covert like the birds of the air?"
"Te birds leave no trail," muttered Nick,
musingly.
" The birds are wise. Not to man alone ,is
wisdom given. Even the snake knows when
his enemy is near, and creeps into its hole."
While the Shoshone stood grave and digni.
fled, his eyes' might occasionally be detected
resting upon Sebastian and Indian;Joe; but
his stoical face told no tales of his thought -
"Shoshons," said Pathaway, addressing the.
Indian, "speak plainly and not in the: lan-
gua gof figures."
" speak according to my nature," answer-
ed Multnomah, proudly, and with a slight
frown. - " The Master of Life never speaks to
his children but in signs. . He does not -say
'There will be a storm;' but He makesthe
air heavy and puts a cloud in the sky.M Re;
does not say : ' It will be fair to-morrow,' but
makes the sun set red, as if it-went down i a
battle-field."
"Where will the sky be clear ?" atked
Nick.
" It will not be clear, but Multnomah would
o to the North. I have noticed that some
birds build their nests high among the rocks
in the clefts and crevices."
"Birds are not fools," quoth Nick.
"We learn from the meanest things," re-
sponded the chief.
" But man, being gifted With speech," said
Pathaway, " should use it intelligibly."
" My talk is to those that can understand
me.   Those that do not take my mean
when I speak as Nature has taught me, would
not be profited if I spoke in thq language of
the pale faces." Then to Nick: "D6uble:
dark,,you have heard ms; yon can read ;the
book of the sky and the earth ?"
" I can, and.I thank you,Iin,foryou


PATHAWAY ; OR, TIHE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

t'lhrlij vkslt.  I' hope it'll be a long time,
abd'dttrike the trail to the happy huntin'
ground ; but when you do, may the journey
1redaant, and the laud o' oulvto ypurlik-
in'e That's the worst wish I wish.you or your
tibe, though there's them 'mong white men
as had different feeling's! '  s
I- Doubledark, I have said, and I go."
Maltnonah turned and stalked rapidly away.
. An Ingin is' an- Ingin," muttered Nick,
"and allers willbet '
"'I cin scarcely desire them different,",ob-
served Pathaway. " I find much, in the char-
aeter of the 'true ;type of Indian to' admire.-
Their Tnethod of communication is borrowed
from  'ature: The 'earth and the sky are in-'
deed their books."
"Books ' Vve studied a good 'cal myself.
I've often looked up, when layin' carmpless
ott the prairie, and seen the book ofthe
.,)ievens opened wide afore me ; every, star
"tellin''me which way to go to find A certain,
lake or river mountain or valley."
'" I have emad that, page, and experienced a
deep pleasure in the solitary companionship
of Nature," replied' the hunter.
IInever was much of a astronomer , and
don't k o# one onsternation-" -
"onstellationl" whispered Sebastian..
I It takes no' odds," qnoth Nick. "It's
wi4tboth ways, though the way yomd speak it
ma"'be the prop}erest in a grammatical p'int.
As I was ayin', I never knew one constellation,
fro* anottiet' by'name as laid down in the
b dl  though I've named 'em'to suit .myself.
OQb-I ealtheBuffaler, another the Catamount,
a third the Wolf, a.fourth the Sarpent, and so
onI   trdividooal stars I giner'ly names arter
m   s hoess .favorite one, leastwise ;. sick As
ggestion, Firebug,'eta.' It's a mighty savin'
0' *tudyi tMd- 'cordin' to Natu', too, which
Ai ged:aohoblhtaster, and'bout the on'y-one
-         er bMdy for I- never went to school but t
'dbOpl;oe' days in my life. The mister caled
me. up, And, sea he :t What's. that ?'sez he,
p'intin' to the letter A. *'Don't know,' sez,
PDtit khow, do' you?'sez he,' giving' mge 'aeut
across the legs with a stick. 'Try and find
OI,-e    he    'i's io 'use,' blobbered I, ca-.
per!' hbi* u the room.: ''We'll see to that,'
4 4,eU&amp;   WT'  hat ,did your parents seed you
here for?  Look right at that,:si r !' I sidled
tpwto the4e60lohnaster, a rubbin' the calf of one
lg' then of the other, openin'my eyes-'as- wide
as never I could. 'It looks like a harder,' sez
-'(C h itloeks:like a harder, does-it ? Now
whatit doe, it look like'. and -whaek, thael
wentthe stiok overany head-and ears. 'Come
orn to make misehIef4 didn't ye ?' se he;, 'to
et 'bad' eanpleafre thelrisin' gineration,
and' trp'qn:'the minds of the :rest o' the
.   lM 6.' With that Ilooked round,.and seed
three. melancholy little, varnints present.
The fact on't was, the rnarster was mad 'cause
bi#'iastitoctien wasn't patronised mgo better.

I don't care nothin' 'bout the risin' gineration,
nor you anotherr !' sez, I, fairly worked up with
pain and anger. And with 'that, I throwed a
lead inkstand at; his, head, -and run home
fast as.,my legs could carry Inc. My mother
wanted ie 'to 'go ag'in the next day, but I
wouldn't. 'Boys. and gals alters has to be
licked,' sez she, 'when they're l arnin' to read.
It's impossiblegtoit; the lIdnin' into 'em 'thout
wallopin,' and the- harder ~ they're beat the'
quicker they'llgit their eddication.'
"I pulled up my tattered trousers, and
showed her -the great welts on my legs. ' I
know it' sezishe, shakin' her head sadly 'but
it has, to lbe did. It's jest like whoopin'
cough 'and nmeasles, and we can't help it ; but
you can hide ahind the hedge, and throw stones
at the marster when he goes'home in the a-
ternoon.', 'y legs didn't smart much arter
that, and the marster didn't stay long in the
neighborhood.
"Uncle.Nick, have you forgotten the grizzly
bear and the Shosbon6 ?" whispered Sebas-
tian.
"Forg6t ?" repeated Nick. " Not a tall!
But what's the us- being' niiser'ble long's we
cn be t'otherwise ?, ,Depend.on't, Nick Whif-
fles .don't lase his mem'ryfor trifles. When,
as that Ingin said, there's signs in the airth
and sky,I'm on hand to look'at 'em;and be
guided by 'em., To-night we'll sleep at Black
Rock."
Sebastian recoiled, as if Nicholas had pushed
him backward.
"Black Rock!".,he repeated. "Surely you
will not take 'me--that is, you will not go to
auch.a dismalipot.' .The remembrance of that
dark steam, a$ those frowning r ocks, togeth-
er with-"
"I know," iterposed Niek, hastily, " that
it's a dull, pokerish-lookin' place  but it may
sarye us. fi- a refie for a -night. boys o'
your age-oightn't to be 'afeet'd of ghosts and
things."  Then,.to Pathaway: -It's reported,
you +sthat; a murder was compuitted there,
and this spharser-legg'eAd   has'got the notion
into his head that mgirdredfolls come back."
"'I think'you onceiformed me that you
witnessed a tragedy, there ?"? 'aid Pathaway.
"Almost '-; not quite. Thq loveliest,' the
pootiest, and the beat  O GLord, es !"
The last words sien ed td i'"dpdaessed more
to himself than anbody- else.
"Y'ou returnedhei to:Tier' friends, if' I re-
member rightly
"Whatever I tole  e 6so it 'twas. Yes, I
sent her home, though tuas hard parting' with
one so interestin',- and, so handsome ; one,
'thqut knowing' it, that had insensibly twined
herself round my 'fections."
"You loved her,?" queried Pathaway.
" The ground she ivalked on i!" said Nick.
"And wasn'tt none o' your moonshiny, wishy-
washy, senti mental stuff, nuther'; but the
renl, airnest, substantial, stick-to-ye principle

TV

4

py  ,E           awl
00
ti  H          n
"             z
e           =1.


PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

that never gits tired, and never wears out."
Indian Joe and Sebastian glanced at each
other ; then the eyes of the latter sought the
earth, finally wandering back to Nick.
4 We'll go to Black Rock, Nicholas," he.
said. "I should like to see the spot where you
performed so brave an action."
Indian Joe walked from the hut, Nick watch-
ing him as he went out.
" Keep sight o' that' eritter, colonel. I
don't like the looks of him too well. I think
'twould be a good plan to put him under some
restraint, sich as tyin' his legs and lashin' him
to a saplin'. Fust thing we know, he'll be off.
Likely as any way, he's come 'mong us a sort
o' spy ; if I thought he had, I'd go out and
choke him, by mighty ! I seed the Shoshons
lookin' at hin right smart, and l's glad he's
bright enough not speak out no plainer."
"I am confident that lie may be trusted ;
though, placed as we are, we should observe
every reasonable caution," said Pathaway.
"I'll go out and cross-examine him, as
'twere ; for I thought the conversation inter-
ested him rayther too much, seen' he's clear
Ingin, and we haven't nothin' in common."
Nick arose and followed Joe, who had pro-
ceeded toward the spot where the horses were
grazing. The trapper approached the tawny
boy with the soft, elastic step of an Indian.
He touched him upon the shoulder. Joe
turned, with a notable start of surprise.
"You' a'n't a parfect redskin," said the
trapper, quietly. " That's a kind of insex
that's seldom taken onawares. An Ingin, in
the reg'lar business of trail and war-path,
wouldn't 'lowed me to steal a march on him."
Joe put out his hands, and stepped back
several paces, while the paint seemed to whiten
on his face.
"Joe young ; Joe never followed war-path.
White man great hunter, very cunning !"
The voice of the young savage was not clear,
but husky with a predominant feeling.
" Can't say the same of you, by gracious
What you been looking' at them animiles for?"
"Joe tired of stayiif in lodge. No know
what pale-faces say; their talk is strange to
Ingin  Joe." :-
" Now you're lyin', you little scamp !" ex-
claimed Nick, seizing the lad by the collar, and
holding him with the grasp of a vice. "I
obsarved ye, you young sarpent ! You heerd
and understood as well as I or the little 'un ;
and you not on'y understood, but you showed
too much interest by considerable." . .
At this point, Nick lifted Joe sup -and set
him down again several times, as if to show
him his strength.
"I've killed a good many Ingin boys fust
an' last, off and on," quoth the trapper, care-
lessly; "and I don't sleep none the.worse'
for't."
Joe trembled at first, but gaining courage,
spoke for himself:

,:'
/+  t
:.
;,#  ; =
,
,
,.;},
; .
,
-._
a-
i
E
. ,

" What you go to hurt Joe ? Joe boy--you
man ; if Joe man and you boy, Joe no choke,
no shake !"
"Ingin, you know too much. I'm less dis-
posed to. trust ye than I-was afore. You may
be all right, but I'm blest if I believe it!
Where there's any doubt, it's best to treat an
honest man as if he's a rogue. Arter this,
you'll consider yourself a prisoner o' war; and
not o' war neither, but of sareumstances."
At this announcement, Joe became highly-
indignant, his anger showing itself in his
flushed face and sparkling eyes. At one mo-
ment, Nick believed his passion would find
vent in a flood of tears, but a sharp, though
evident struggle checked the impulse. lie
stood with his chest heaving like a sullen and
petulant woman.
"What !" he exclaimed ; then checked him-
self, as if he had manifested too much feeling,
or said something that he ought not to.
"Did you say ' What?' " demanded Nick,
stroking his beard with his disengaged hand.
"Have you learned so soon to talk like white
folks? A mighty sha-p and obsarvin' lad you
be, I allow."
"Joe say, What for you 'buse Ingin boy?
He friend of pale face; guide him long way ;
bring him here safe ; no let bad white man
hurt him."
"Jes' so !" answered Nick, mildly. "Sartin
-zactly.   You took him from   the -mean
skunks, and I'm 'bleeged to ye; but men in
danger don't 'stan' on nice distinctions. You
know what distinctions is, don't ye, redskin-?"
Joe shook his head very slowly.
" In course not ! A heathen bught n't to
know' flambergasted. words. I'm glad you
don't ; for I don't like to see insex of your
color imitatin' their betters : so, beggin' your
pardon, I'll jest trot ye back to camp."
With a remorseless grip upon his arm that
was nearly too much for Joe's stoicism, the
trapper led, or 'rather dragged, him toward
the hut.
" I won't hurt ye-not a bit-Oh Lord, no !"
-the boy was ready to cry with pain-" nor
I won't injure your feelin's, or deprive ye of
none o' your nat'ral rights ; but jest tie your
legs, and hitch ye up to a little tree till you're
wanted ; not 'cause I've got anythin' agin ye,
for I ha'n't ; but to keep ye frorn runni
away."
" Joe no run ; no go to the Valley ; no tell."
"I know ye wont, Ingin. It isn't in the
natur' o' things for ye to git away arter I've
tied ye up.".
Nick looked at his captive, and saw two
large tears trembling upon his long lashes.
" I'm glad none o' your kith and kin is here,
to see that !" added Nick. "'Mong your peo-
ple, cryin' is left princip'ly to the squaws.
Warriors don't 'low the feelin's of their hearts
to work up as fur as the eyes."
Nicholas had, by this time, reached the

75


PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

camp. Pathaway 'came out to remonstrate
with him about his treatment of the boy.
"He is a mere child," he said, "and to me
has thus far been faithful. I must protest
against undue severity."
"Sartin; it's your priverlege to pertest.
But when life-is at stake, we musn't stan' at
bearing' down a trifle on human natur' ; pro-
vidin', allers, that Ingin natur' is of that sort.
The missioners think 'tis; but, arter all that's
said and done, they're heathen-not knowin' a
Bible from a pack o' keerds. Howsomnever-
we must git ready for a start. Portneuf, whip
a string round this youngster's wrists-arter
which, take a turn round a saplin' of some
magnitood, and keep your eye on him till I
git back ; I'm goin'- to take a look at the signs
hereabouts. By'usin' my fakilties to the best
advantage, I may git hints that '11 prove sar-
viceable. We shall be hunted like hares,;
but I trust we shall he able to put cunnin'
agi cunnin', and throw the hounds from the
scent."
Joe unresistingly suffered his hands to be
bound, though he cast, occasionally, reproach-
ful glances at Pathaway. Repeating his ad-
monition to the Frenchman to keep a strict
watch over Joe, Nick thoughtfully left camp
to test the power of his educated faculties and
sharpened instincts.
As soon as lie was out of sight, the gray
hunter app-oached the youthful Indian, and
said, soothingly:..
"Do not be grieved, my lad, at this treat-
ment. You shall come to no harm. Submit
patiently to the humors of Nick Whiffles, who,
I am suire; will not wrong you intentionally.'
He then examined the cord about his wrists,
and, finding it rather tight, loosened it.
Joe said nothing -neither expressed his
thanks nor his resentment-4:hut stood with
lowniast eyes and moody' brow.
CHAPTER XXII.s
NICK GETS INFORMATION ABOUT HIMSELF.
All remained quiet at the little camp in theft
wilderness. The day passed without bringing
fresh adventure or new signs of the nearness of I
enemies. The only observable difference of
departure from the common routine was, that
the fire was extinguished after the morning
meal; nor was it lighted again till nearly night,S
and then kept burning but long enough to pre-
pare their simple articles of food. Both Nickc
and Pathaway were outlying the camp during s
the greater part of the dlay, to note those cvi- 3
denies of foes perceptible to experienced eyes f
alone, and utterly invisible to the novice, how-
ever developed his natural perspicacity. Many v
times-did Doubledark ascend the hills and ri-
ing grounds in the vicinity, and cast searching
glances toward the Valley, the eastern slopes, b
and the whole surrounding tract, far as his r
As soon as athe unhad veiled his glories s

behind the mountains, Nick led the horses to
the door, and covered their feet with large
strips of buffalo and deer-skin-observing ex-
traordinary care in the performance.
"Man," he  said, "that hasn't been gifted
with the instine's of the lower aniniiles, has
reason to make up for't. You perceive, little
un"--addressing Sebastian more Particularly
-" that,I put on these bandages with the hair
side out, which makes a soft cushion for the
feet, and leaves no track for a pryin' Black-
foot, or, what amounts to the same thing, the
runagade whiteskins that have fell from the
grace of their color, as' 'twre, and rendered
theirselves fit marks for the fust honest rifle
that can be brought to bear on 'em. Bad
stuff," he muttered, musingly, "is white blood
turned sour."
Hie paused in his labors ; and holding a fore-
foot of his horse Shagbark upon his knee, with
the akin gathered upon it in folds, held by his
left hand, raised his right with suggestive
earnestness, as if lie would appeal to every ra-
tional person's understanding, and added :
"If the p'ison newspapers had got hold of
them mean skunks, instead of a simple old
trapper who giner'ly minds his own business,
and don't keer to have his business advertised,
they'd a hit it!"
- Nicholas breathed better after this remark,
and, with a face upon which there was dissat-
isfaction, but no anger, tied a buckskin thong
over the segment of buffalo skin that shielded
the sharp hoof of his animal.
" They have carried you ever and ever so
many miles, uncle .Nick, those feet," said Se-
bastian.
"Younmav b'lieve it, Humbug," replied
Nik  deliberation.
" Yes, white boy humbug !" exclaimed In-
dian Joe, scornfully.-
"Hullo!0 look out what you say there, red-
skin, or you '11 be put mnder a trifle of restraint
ag'in "
At the solicitation of Pathaway, the boy-
guide had been released from the ignominy of
bonds-he having expressed so much faith in
is integrity, that Donbledark had reluctantly
yielded to his wishes.
Thm horses having been duly moccasined,
Sebastian was placed upon one of them, which
was, of course, Nick's.
"We must let the little un ride, on 'count
of his arm, which is cut nighabout off; and I
shouldn't wonder if mortification sets in soon.
Mortification runs in the blood of the Whif
heses."
"Y ou told me,'" said Pathaway, quickly,
with a troubled look, ."that the lad's flesh
heals with remarkable readiness."
"When at rest, it does; but jest let that
boy stir about more 'a common on them spat'-
er legs, and he'd git up the condemndest-in-
lamination that you can '1nagine. I've seen
ich inflammations on that lad !"

T 4,,
it
uV
k r"
ra    _
s      l  .
'c.
gr
t"at

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                          77
"Let him ride, by all means; and, as his  There was- a faint stir and quiver in the
wound properly belongs to me, and should be grass on the opposite quarter of the camp ; it
credited to my own flesh and blood, I will subsided ; the long spires ceased to move ex-
walk beside him when practicable, and give cept in obedience to the wind, while Nick re-
iaparticular attention during our flight, mained as fixed as the tree that sheltered him.
however lon, it may be or difficult.  Poor There was a billowy undulation in the rank
Andrew Jeanjean can mount The animal that foliage again, then a tufted head lifted slowly
bore me in safety fr m Trapper Valley, while above it, then a red face, with gleaming eyes
my youthful guide can take the other. We and earnest, eager expression. " Misfortune"
are indebted for the two to the wild girl of glanced up at his master, then at the erect,
Trapper Trace, whose kindness I shall ever bronzed head. Nick gave him a gentle hint
remember with gratitude."                to be quiet with the breech of his rifle, which
"He can jest as well run along at the horses' he held ready for instant use. The scalp-
heels," answered Nick, throwing a suspicious lock of the reconnoitering savage was decor-
glanceat Joe. "It's the natur' o' the varmint ated with seven plumes, and the trapper re-
to run. Howsomn er, he'll perhaps be safer membered him at once as the leader of the
on horseback, though I shall aie him on to party that had captured Jack Wiley. Pre-
keep him from givin' usathe slip in the dark. sently, a second head arose from the herbage,
Portneuf, jump oh~ to Daphnis, and lead the but it had a redundance of hair and a -white
way toward Black Rock by the path I showed face to mark its nationality.
e to-day. You're used to the wilderness, and  " As I s'pected !" muttered Nick. "They've
shall trust a good 'cal to your sharpness." made friends with the mammon of unright-
Then to the gray hunter: "In regard to a eousness. That's-Bill brace, and there's some
young man o' your 'cuteness, I shall have lit- o' the carrion crows of Hendricks not far off,
tle to say in the way of advice-takin' it for 1'll -be. sworn. They're going to fetch the
sartin that you know a trail from a bufferler- Blackfeet agin us now-bought 'em up with
pathand the sign of an inem  from the scram- whiskey, beads, caliker,, and nick-nacks. Well,
nnof a mountain-goat or the springy step of they're allies when there's deviltry afoot.
a deer or antelope. As for me, I shall be ist, dogs !"
ahind and aforeand scoutin' about on every  It was a.habit of Nick's, growing out of his
side'; for, to tell you the truth (arid it 'twont solitary life, to speak his thoughts when alone ;
do no good to conceal it), I've seen symptoms and on this occasion they were spoken so low
of a prison diffikilty.",a               that the words could scarcely be -said to pass
"We're not women and children," answered beyond his lips.
Pathway, drily. nthe Indian arose, and throwing forward his
tNo," responded the trapper. bluntly, "but long, lithe body, peered into the empty hut,
w're men and boys; and sich desp'ratc funny then entered with wary step, followed by Bill
boys ! One's got a condemned gash, and Brace. Th      were hien    m theher's
'tother's got a natur in him that's aging white view for the space of a minute, then camne
natur, leastwise.tClimb up, Copperface !"  out with looks of disappointment, and searched
The last injunction was directed to Joe, who for the trail of the departing prey.
mounted with reluctance and sat awkwardly in  "Gone ! gone !" exclaimed Brace. "'Tis
the saddle. In spite of the remonstrances of the work o' that meddlin', lank Nick Whifles.
the hunter, Nicholas secured the boy as if he What think ye, redskin ?"
were captive taken in lawful warfare.    "Doubledark very dark ; go and come like
" Move on, Frenchman," said Doubledark. fox ; eye very sharp on long gun-shoot-
" Pathawa   ou'll have an eye to the boys, kill-run-no ketch him! Seven Plumes try
while I will have eyes for you all."     many time take his scalp. No take hissealp !"
Portneuf spoke to Daphnis and'the parties  Nick smiled grimly and felt of his head ; it
were in motion, with the exception of Nick, still wore-its natural coverings
who lingered, with the dogs at his side. He  "Try take him''live ; carry to village-
watched them out of sight, the muffled steps build big fire--roast-burn-make him cry-
of the horses sending back no sound, and leav- tears run down like squaw. No ketch hini !"
ing a trail intelligible only to the most dis- " Oh Lord, no !" thought Nick.
corning eye.  Withdrawing a short distance  ' Hide inoods to shoot him when go by ;
froih the hut, he stood motionless some ten he no-go in woods ; he goon prairie, one, two,
minutes, looking now at Smuggler, now at three, four mile off. No 'shoot hint "
'alamity as they crouched at his feet, then at  Not a bit on't !" said Nick, mentally.
the deserted and lonely lodge.          1,"Followed his trail three days,' continued
The moon had not arisen, a deep obscurity Seven Plumes, with growing earnestness, "to
resting upon the wilderness, calculated to in- find him 'sleep. gome upon his camp at
spire seeing of isolation, hadNick been dis- night; dog bark like devil. No find him
mind was as firm as his owi steel, and he "It's the mercy o' God," thought Nihoas,
posed to insulg in asuh weotns.Bu hs   stthelesp -ie"wdomtoughtolas,
could rely upon it as well.       w      " that lie's -give me wisdom enough 'to 'keep


78        PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MQUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS,

out the clutches of the heathen both by day
and by night."
"iOne time surround his lodge with war-
riors and fire ten, fifteen, twenty-five time ;
hit nothin' but lodge. Byrne-by he fire his
Long rifle ; kill Ingin every shot. That no
good I Seven Plumes and his braves go 'way
very mad. 'Nother time take pale-face priso-
ner ; start, but Doubledark hide in valley
*mong rocks ; steal up to prisoner-cut him
loose-pale-face 'git 'way - Doubledark git
'way. Ugh!"          .               .
'the brow of the Blackfoot grew darker with
resentment. A few twinkling stars threw a
feeble iight upon his dusky face. He resem-
bled a dark picture in a dark setting, with
Bill Brace and-the cabin for a background.
" Can't say, Blackfoot, that, I'm sorry a
prisoner got away, though it seems like an in-
jury to you. The critter was Jack Wiley, and
belongs to Cap'n Dick's fellers.  If you'd
made an'eend 'o Jack, our boys would a been
arter ye, and there'd been no friendship atween
us ; so his meddlin' that time turned out for
the best."
Nick lifted the breech of his rifle a little
from the leaves, and his fingers worked upon
the barrel as if playing on an instrument, but
a feeling, either of policy or humanity, pre-
vented his sending the unerring bullet. He'
scanned his lurking and persevering enemy
with an interest awakened by the revelations
he had heard. Had he indeed been singled
out by the tawny nomads of the wilderness
as a special victim of their vengeance ? Was
this circumstance new to him? It was not.
A wandering life, stretching over some twen-
ty-five years, had taught him the peculiarities
of savage nature ; given him an insight into
its wiles, artifices, and obstinate persistence in
dogging the footsteps of an enemy. He had
been instructed unon the dangerous trapping-
grounds by - sudden surprises ; by forced
marches and hasty flights ; by chance rencon-
tres in a hundred places, by countless contin-
gencies incident to that kind of existence, un-
til his sensibilities had grown sharp and his
knowledge approximated to the keenness of in-
stinct. Even his present position proved how
much training had done for him ; he stood
within a few yards of inveterate enemies--two,
certainly, with more, doubtless, within call-.-
one man, yet firm and confident, and conscious
of his own abilities to meet emergencies. .
"Seven Plumes shall have Doubledark to
carry to his village," said Brace, with deter-
niiination. " His skulp shall hang up in his
lodge after his women and children have played
with. it, and paraded it about on a pole. A
pooty thing it'll be, to p'int to it and say,
'That's the akulp of Nick Whiffes !"'
The trapper imagined that he could see a
sinister scowl upon the Indian's forehead,
which grew more malign as Brace went on.
"The great Nor'west," resumed the latter,

bitterly, "has rung long enough with the
name of Doubledark. You can't go nowhere
but you'll hear on him. Go up the Big Red,
and they'll ask for fifty mile along its banks
if you've seed him. Go down the' Columby,
and it's the same thing over ag'in. Take a
long tramp 'cross the lakes to Montreal, and
the Frenchmen 'ill ask, ' Are ye 'quainted with
Nick Whiffles ?' On the southern slope of the
Rocky mountains they'll want to know what
Nick'Whiffles is doin', and if he's coming' down
that way soon. ' I know this is so, both by my
own experience and what I've heerd from
others."
" He great warrior, great hunter, great
trapper, great everything !" asserted Seven
Plumes, reflectively.
" Great as he is, he's yourn. Cap'n Hen-
dricks says you shall have him, if he's got
men enough to take him, though he don't
wan't to be known much in the business him-
self, for everytilin' that's done here works
down into the clearin's in course o' time. He's
got heaps of knives, blankets, and beads for
his brothers the Blackfeet. 'Chief, bring out
your braves ; let 'em swarm into every pass
and valley, perarie, and bit 'o timber in this
stretch o' country. There's a boy and a man
with him ; the man," he added, depressing his
voice. " b'longs to me."
" Me know !" said Seven Plumes, quickly..
"You fought together like squaws. He knock
Bill Brace down-strike dam  hard ! Make
face look like squaw's face when she been beat
by drunken Ingin. Wah ! wah !"
Seven Plumes-turned up his nose in con-
tempt.
Bill Brace swore an oath which would not
grace our pages, exhibiting his chagrin in an
unmistakable manner.
" The boy," he continued, wincing, " must
be taken, too. Cap'n Dick wants him, but
what for, is more'n I know ; he talks about
him queer, 'pearin' to be afeard on him one
minute, and inquisitive 'bout him the next.
Does Seven-Plumes understand ?"
" Ugh, ugh !"
"Then," proceeded Brace, "there's a crit-
ter, a Frenchman called Portneuf, that's got to
be put one side 'fore he can snuff the air of the
settlements. Don't stan' on ceremony with
him, chief, but lift his hair quick's you can.
He's been in the Valley, and in a ha ter, too,
but by some kind of deviltry or niekromaney
-which Nick Whiffles may be at the bottom
of, for all I know-slipped out neck and heels,
hose and all. He might talk, you know. Do
you hear ?"
"Am I a tree or a stone?"
" You may be a clod afore you know it !"
muttered Nick.
" Then I have spoke to the p'int, and we'll
set ourselves to work to pick outthis trail. It'll
go hard with us, if Ingin cunnin' and white
cunnin' can't outwit him."

r
I
f
I
a
1+
pis
Z
r
1
A

" It'll go hard with me and them with me,"
was the conviction that forced itself upon the
trapper,. if you do."
The Indian and Brace now commenced a
fresh examination of the spot ; while they were
looking at every indentation in the earth,
every wound of the'tender grass, every disturb-
ance of the leaves, with their faces close to the
earth, Nick silently retreated, following with
cautious strides the party in which he felt so
deep an interest, not so much by the trail,
which was scarcely perceptible, even to him,
but from perfect familiarity with the route
Portneuf had taken.
CHAPTER XXIII.
THE YOUNG INDIAN .MAKES A STARTLING
ANNOUNCEMENT. 
Psthaway and the lads, conducted by the
Frenchman, passed over considerable ground
before Nick overtook them. In the interim,
the hunter, agreeably to his promise, had kept
near Sebastian, watching his movements with
friendly zeal, ready to assist him in case ofneed.
The youth received his attentions with a sin-
gular mixture of gratitude and timidity-the
latter, that inexplicable shrinking that often
rendered his character feminine. The eyes of
Indian Joe frequently wandered to the parties,
but with no pleased expression. The gray
hunter noticed at length his persistent, and at
times, anxious glances, and walked to his side,
leaving Sebastian in the rear.
" Joe," he said, in a gentle manner, "I re-
gret that one who has done me a ervice
should be thus treated ; but we are placed in a
position so perilous that we are forced to use
every reasonable precaution ; although I con-
fess that were it not for our friend, the trap-
per, I would not consent to this measure, but
allow your limbs to remain free."
" Ingin boy no 'count. He guide pale-face,
but no matter. White hunter no memory. Tie
Joe up like dog-he no feel-he no care---his
flesh no have pain I"
The boy pronounced these abrupt sentences
in an aggrieved tone, and Pathaway would not
have been surprised to see tears flow down his
red cheeks. But his grief-if grief it were-
was mingled with a spirit that would occasion-
ally flash up wild and fervent. Not knowing
how to' soothe a nature like his, - Pathaway
kept pace with the slow movements of his
horse in silence, waiting for a different mood
to come over him to render him more placa-
ble.
"Why you walk 'side Joe? Joe no white.
Go walk 'longside squaw !" The young Indian
threw a scornful look backward at Sebastian.
" What did you say, Joe ?" asked the hunter,
glancing inquiringly at his features.
" Go walk with squaw--talk with squaw, and
no mind Ingin Joe, who save your life !"
. "You call him a squaw," answered Patha-
way,.musing, "but the term of reproach is un-

merited. I know he is very contradictory in
his behavior, but I do believe that he is not
wanting in courage, as that wound upon his
arm attests."
" How ?" asked Joe, eagerly, as if thrown off
his guard.
" He bravely interposed that member be-
tween my own person and the knife of an as-
sassin -a burly ruffian called Bill Brace,
whom it was once my privilege to punish for
his insolence."
"Bill Brace 1" repeated Joe, with a slight
start.
" Yes, Bill Brace ; one of the creatures of
the man Hendricks. I might have been sleep-
ing soundly beneath the green turf of the wil-
derness,'had it not been for Sebastian Delau-
nay. Even the wandering red man knows how
to-repay gratitude, and bears ever inhis breast,
as a sacred deposit, the remembrance of a
favor."
" Has no one else saved the life of the pale.
face. hunter?" Joe demanded sharply, almost
angrily.
"Yes, Carlta--the strange girl qarldta !"
responded Pathaway, sighing. " She might
have been lovely in character as in person ;
but now, alas ! she is Beauty run wild ." Then
he added, " And wicked, too."
"She saved life, but you no like her. That
not the way Ingin does ; he no forget when
friend come, take him by the hand and say
'you free ; here hoss with saddle, bridle, and
here Ingin boy, that no betray you."
"Do those cords hurt your'wrists ?" Patha-
way asked, after an embarrassing silence.
".They cut into he flesh, gbut Joe no com-
plain. He git pay that way for what he done."
"I'll hazard the risk of freeing your hands,
at any rate," said Pathaway, touched with re-
morse, and immediately out the boy's'bonds
with his'knife. "I will trust you ; see thatmy
confidence is not abused."
" Joe no make promise ; he do what he
please, but no make promise. He tell pale-
face, though, that that boy no boy ; he squaw-
he woman !"
The blood flushed up to Pathaway's brow.
" Joe tell truth ; he no he--that boy, wo-
man !"
For some reason Pathaway did not immedi-
ately answer. Perhaps he was comparing the
young Indian's startling assertion with his-own
thoughts, and. evidences gathered from a
thousand trifling circumstances. He partially
turned and threw an earnest look 'at Sebastian
Delaunay ; the youth's face appeared more
beautiful than ever. His large, dreamy eyes
beamed with softer'light, while his wondrous
symmetry of person shaped itself into a form
of additional grace. The little hand, the di-
minutive foot and daintily turned ankle, had
new meaning for Pathaway.. He recalled the
occasion of the dressing of the wounded arm,
and the vague, and then almost improbable

79


PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

suspicion that had floated dimly and distantly
across the horizon of his mind,'vet with suf,
ficient vividness to give him a strange thrill
For a moment he forgot everything but the one
absorbing conviction that Indian. Joe had
forced upon him.
"lIe's a tender p1ant-a delicate half-breed,
I allow, but certainly. Joe, you have started
an improbable conjecture," he said, presently.
"Pale-face wise, bu t he no deceive 'oe. Ile
-feel all the time, boy, woman; white man's
heart tell him boy, woman ; but' he no want
to believe what it'-say ; 'so .he go on like one
in dream, now satisfied, now not ; now no:
care, now care ihelr."
Joe's penetrating eyes looked at Pathaway
as if to read the obseurest page of his heart.
In truth, the gray hunter was visibly agitated,.
and Carl6ta'and °the banditti of'Trapper Val-
ley were swept from his consciousness. Had "
Joe indeed lfladea disclosure ?4, If the cpersen
in question were indeed a woman, what was:
her history,-and why was she wandering like
a damsel errant in the Northern wilds?
"Her eyes were like soft star-beams gleaming
atitfitdg ht oh the' sleping matef;  ,.
, Her face was ever on me beaming, -,.
evel the wandering trapper's dp4ghter.
Ohthe trapper's daughter!"
The voice of Andrew Jeanjeana was, lifted,
monrfully unpda the night ,air, and borne
away over bush and; brake. and waving grass.
At that instant Nlk overtook them.
" That's rutllergood u;usic," he said, "but
it hasn't power toQsoothe the savage breast
hereabouts; .Andrew,-lad, don't sing no.more
at present, for there are heathen ears that,
may ketch the sound,.and we've wore our
sk-nlps. so long that we should.,be loth to part
with 'em for a song ; though .a good many
things has been sold fob a:song, Ive, herdd" :
Then to Sebastia «.;,,.
"6Are, .you ;'sleep, Sparrer-Legs f.., How's.
that' p'ison gash 'o' your'n? 'Tisnz't A good,
thing to get'he4 .in. THve knowed a.crn-
demned difikilty to, come of s' smaller out.
nor that. Are ye cmfQrttsbe, little 'ul?"
Pathaway's handsome face turned. wonder-
ingly, admiringly upon.-Niek ,Whiffies..  e
thought he knew, now,, thq spnningcof all his
are of 'Sebastian ; his womanly tenderness:of.
hinti; his eoustarat" solicitude for hi -safety;
his thousand attentions;,his countless artifiees.
to sbiel4 himsfrom, distrust ; his infailing,
never-tiring kindness,; his gentle',delicacy ;
his immeasurable friendship. Here was a
niystery ! And into this mystery, l'athaway
passed with all his being., He no ;longer felt
indifference respecting the .dangers that sur-
rounded them.- Here was an object thrown
upon,his care that gave an interest to flight
and defeuce. - The romance, of woman was
upon the wilderness. T he charm  of her in-
nocenee, hopelessness, and beauty gave new
incentive to effort, and converted the wide-i

stretching North into an arena where lances
might be broken and gallant deeds performed.
Already he was conscious of that enchantment
that ever waits upon the presence, and lives in
the voice and smiles of that softer sex to
which all men, sooner or later, yield homage.
He felt his maiabod. revive, and began.to
take an active interest in their, nocturnal
flight.
By: this:time they had reached a spot where
the, cu-de--sac, or, blind alley, leading to the
basin which had received the'name of Black
Rock, on account of the towering masses of
dark rock-that hemmed ri in. Nick Whiffles
had reason to reniember the place ; he had.
not only lost traps there in an unexplainable
manner, but ha'd'witnessed, in' addition, 'that
terrible drama described in the first chapter
of our tale.
S4thatf obterved that Sebastian shivered
the moment his shadow fell within the narrow
portal. Niek was at the lad's side in an in-
stant,'speaking, ina low voice, words of en-
couragement.
. " Under ordinary edrcumstances, this spot
would be safe," said Nick, presently, " but as'
things is, we can't rely entirely on its security;
for the red 'heathen are leagued with our ene-
mies, and, we: may expect to hear from 'em
afore.the world is much older. Howsomnever,
three good riflesin practiced hands, is amor-
tal terror to the nat'ral varnigints. of the .ile ;
so be likely, lad, and don't be east down with
misgivin's or the pain of your little diffi-
kilty "."
kil.'m notafraid, uncle Nick," replied Se-
bastian.
"Not a -bit on't! not a bit on't! Should
like tW hear somebody say that you're afeard,
or that you're capable o' being' skeer d in any
manner," answered Nick, heartily.
A low, disdainful laugh came, from the di-
reelion of indian Joe; .but. when the trapper
looked at him sharply, he appeared as sullen
nd absent as ever.   -     .
"Ingin boys git big enough to skulp when
they're about 'leven year'old !" observed Nick,
contracting his brow till-there was a vertical
wrinkle on the. line of, and parallel with his
.nose.
Whether Joe ; understood this, remark as
having any application to himself, is problem-
atical.  A. smile - lingered an. instant on the
pale lips- of Sebastian, but wbich suddenly
faded as they emerged from the winding alley
into the basin -
CHAPTER XXIV..
piac'x r.ur.
The irregular ranpart of roek that gave
name to tiespot, towered around the parties
in dim-end shadowy outline, resembling a rough
and gigantic wall built by, some extinct race
of giants,. the- uniformity.of which work was

A

9

-4
to1
d

"

80o


PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

0

marred by the busy and wasting touch of Time.
The dark stream upon which Nick had be-
stowed the appellation of Black Run, lay be-
fore them like a surface of ebony.
Sebastian pressed closely to Nicholas; there
was a perceptible wildness in his manner,
while his face was strikingly pallid, consider-
ing the mixture of his blood. The gray hun-
ter purposely placed himself near the youth,
and observing signs of his besetting weakness
upon him, remarked to the trapper :
"Our young friend has the chills again."
" Not the chills, not the chills," said Nick,
but the animosity of his wound. It gives him
a deal o' pain, but being' of Ingin natur, in
part, leastwise, he's too proud to complain.
You've no idee how much torment he can
stan'! I r'ally b'lieve that he could have a
double tooth distracted Iby,a Selkirk doctor
'thout wincin'; and that's sayi4' a good 'eal
for his fortitude, for the teeth of the Whiffleses
come mighty hard. They tried to pull one
for me, the doctors did, but they ained their
money, by 'gracious !  Arter they'd broke
several instruments and made my mouth a
gorge o' blood, I told 'em, 'Hold on,' sez I,
and they's right glad to 'leave go.
"'Bring a lariat,' sez I. The lariat was
brung.
"' Put a runnin' noose round the grinder,'
sez I, and they did it.
"'Make t'other eend fast to a tree,' sez I,
and they 'beyed the order. When this was
done, taking a pistol in each hand, I sez to
'em : ' Seize me by the heels !' sez I, and b
the heels they seized me. ' Now pull,' sez I,
and the fust man as lets go afore the tooth's
out, I'll shoot!' sez I. Then there was some
pullin' and tuggin' for 'bout fifteen minutes or
up'ards, and the parspiration rolled off 'em
like rain from the ruff of,a house in a shower.
It hurt like p'ison ! I thought to gracious
every bone in my systum was coming' out; but
I'd had the jump' toothache goin' on two
months and was worked up to a desprit pitch.
'What's the use,' thought I, 'of havin' bones
if there's to be a consarned diffikilty in 'em
all the time? Might's well have no bones, as
to have rotten ones. Some animiles,' I reason-
ed, ' don't have no bones. There's snakes, for
instance, don't have none,to brag on, and they
squirm about and git over the ground like
lightning' and I'm equal to a snake, anyday.'
And with that I menaced 'em with my wee-
pons, and the grinder came out spiteful, with
a noise as loud as the crack of a rifle."
Nick paused, then added, shaking his head:
"I'll never have no more pulled, for it
shocked my -skileton terrible ; and took out
a good bit o' the narvous systum ; for the
grinders, you know, are set right into the
narvous system."
Pathaway was not backward to perceive the
tact of the trapper in leading his mind from
the youth, and to divert the thoughts of the

"

88

latter to a subject more agreeable than that
which manifestly disturbed him.
"Does your wound indeed give you so much
pain ?" Pathaway asked, in a voice modulated
more softly than usual ; for since the strange
declaration of Indian Joe, he had felt a strong
desire to hear Sebastian converse. His tones,
always clear and low, were now to him more
melodious, and he listened to" them with rapt
attention.
" You distress yourself on my account too
much," he said, with a strong attempt at
cheerfulness.  "Uncle Nick, I believe, has
spoiled me by too much petting. - If he had
subjected me to more hardship, been less
careful of my comfort, and more desirous of
my reputation as a hunter, my person would
have been seasoned to the hardships of the
life to which I was born."  .,.
"Nonsense !" interrupted Nick, " I know
what you're capable of better nor you do.
You can travel, and suffer, and starve with
the best of us, on a pinch ; and not on a
pinch, neither, but at the shortest notice."
" Can he trap ?" Pathaway inquired, me-
chanically.
"'Twould do you good to see him trap!"
answered Nick, with unction. He'll put that
foot o' his'n on the spring of a trap in a way
you don't think of. Click ! 'and down it goes,
and his fingers work into the jaws of the trap,
break 'em down, and fix the trencher surpns-
in'! He knows jest where to place the thing,
too, and how to conceal it in the grass.
'Twould 'stonish ye to see the fur the lad's
ketehed, fust and last.  He follers up the
streams as if by instine' and not by larnmn'"
"He's a good shot, doubtless ?" continued
the hunter, interested in the honest zeal of the
trapper.
"He shoots beyend everythin'! Set up a
mark of some bigness a little ways off for that
boy to hit, and you'll see -p'ints o' character
that you don't mistrust. He had a small rifle
of his own--a nice one, that I paid a hundred
dollars for if I paid a cent, but 'twas stole
from him whew his hoss was stole. I told you
that some thievish critter took his animile,
didn't I ? I's sorry for the loss, 'cause it conic
of a good breed, and in size was about of a
niuchness with Sparrer-Legs."
Sebastian, who had been walking unsteadi-
ly, tottered, and would have fallen had it not
been for the friendly interposition of Patha-
way, who caught him' in his arms, and in the
haste of doing so, grasped him by his wound-
ed arm. The pain produced by' the action
probably served to recover' him; deep flush
came to his cheeks, but no exclamation of suf-
fering passed his lips., While the gray hunter
supported him, Nick ran to the stream and
broughtwater in his cap, which grateful liquid
he sprinkled upon his face.
The hunter, holding the hand of the injured
member in his, felt something warm upon his


84         PATHAWAY; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

own, and perceived with alarm that it was
stained with crimson drops. His sudden grasp
had loosened the bandages and started the
bleeding afresh. Nicholas detected the cir-
cumstance at the same time, and appeared for
a moment embarrassed. But it was for an in-
stant, only, that he was nonplussed'; bringing
from some mysterious pocket a yellow bandan-
na of long service, by no means above suspicion
in the matter of cleanliness, he bound it about
Sebastian's arm outside the sleeve of his frock.
Pathaway expressed dissatisfaction at this
impromptu surgery, but was gravely assured
that he had actednaccording to universal eus-
tone in the Northwest. Sebastian was uncon-
seious but a few seconds, and glanced timidly
at Nick when he recovered, as if fearful of
being censured for his weakness.
"Forgive me, uncle Nick !" lie murmured.
" Not a tallI" answered Nick.
"You are angry !" said the lad, much
troubled.  "I have gone beyond your pa-
tience."
"iThe Lord love ye, no!   It's that con-
demned diflikilty that makes you so shaky in
the j'ints."
The trapper looked at the rocks and re-
membered the torches that had once flashed
across their rough sides and gleamed down on
the 'water. His countenance grew serious.
"4Necessity," lie said, addressing Sebastian,
"brings us here ; but it's a .necessity that
shan't last long if I can help it. I. under-
stan' you obsarve, what natur is, and how
some .folks feel under sartin earcumstances.
This is but a temporary hidi'-place; a spot
"where we stop to breathe, as 'twere, and where
we'll leave the houses, prehaps. We're hunt-
ed, and it's needful that d should watch the
inemy. Seven-Plumes, the chief of the Black-
feet, is a renowned warrior that has an on-
pleasant hankering' for my hair ; and if there's
a varmint cunning enough to lift it, lie's the
one.,though I shall throw as many diffikilties
in his way as possible ; for a man'll part with
e'enamost snytihin' else more cheerfuller nor
lhe will with his skulp. I can play at the
game of low cunnin' as well as another ; but
I'll he skinned if it's in me to take the top-
knot of a dead inemy, though I've knowd
white folks as would do it. Colonel, stay
here and , look arter this boy ; and not too
much, neither ; for you'll make him bleed
an'in if you stare at him as you do sometimes.
Here's the Ingin, too, who must be 'tended to,
for mtofy confidence in him is, shook. The
heathen chief is sharp at a trail, and may be
closer than- is safe.  Come, Frenchman, o
with me ; for I recollect that you used to be
no fool in matters o' the woods and red-
skins."
"fBut why not take .me for your compan-
ion -" said 1'athaway, somewhat piqued.
41To be frank, because you are the stronger
of the two, and rayther the quickest with

your eyes and rifle, prehaps ; and you're in
duty bound to stick to the boy that was will-
in' to risk his own life for your'n."-
Without waiting to hear further remon-
strance, Nick glided away, followed by Port-
neuf.
The gloom of the night perceptibly light-
ened, the clouds lifting and the moon appear-
ing dimly, affording Pathaway a tolerable
view of surrounding objects. The jagged out-
lines of the rocks, separated from, and seemed
to rise out of the darkness, defining their
rude, strength with a boldness that was strik-
ing.
"nBehold," said the hunter, sweeping the
basin with his finger, " the more massive, and
cumbrous workmansh      of Nature !  How
grand and stern she is in a scene like this !"
" I see no sublimity in towering rocks and
bold crags ; at least, not here," answered Se-
bastian, averting his eyes after a hurried
glance at the points indicated. "I confess
that a chilling awe creeps over me."
" That comes of the force of association."
returned Pathaway. "You have in your re-
membrance the tale frequently alluded to by
our friend, the trapper. Many places, grand
and interesting naturally, become terrible by
circumstances ; a spot where a murder has
been committed, for instance. Cast your eyes
across that dark sheet of, water and, observe
how those stony peaks are graduated,' one ris-
ing above another as they recede from the ba-
sin. We have only to have lights and figures
moving from crag to crag, to finish a wild and
romantic picture.".
Sebastian looked up at the hunter to see if
he meant more than his words implied; but
his was not a countenance easily read ; it was
always calm and thoughtful, save when fired
up by wrong or danger, when his mouth grew
firmerin its significance, and his eyes beamed
with courage and determination.
" That stream is to me black and fearful !"
Sebastian answered, "and the riven rocks, the
looming ledges, and the pointed peaks are
weird and threatening."
The youth made a gesture toward the ob-
jects spoken of as he severally mentioned
them. The, gray hunter did not respond to
this remark, keeping his eyes fixed upon the
beetling rocks.
"1I am almost certain," he said anon, " that
I saw a human figure on yonder bluff."
"It cannot be; it was but a creation of
fancy," Sebastian replied, with a shudder.
".I know that the eve is easily deceived, es-
pecially at night, in a-spot where the imagina-
tion has free scope to roam."
He stopped, then exclaimed :
" It was no deception ! There it is again!
Now it is out of sight."
"A mountain goat, perhaps ; the spot does.
not a appear accessible to men," said the youth.
" ou are mistaken. If my judgment does

not err, that is the very place where the out-
laws entered the basin, bearing their helpless
and lovely victim. What a sceneit mut have
been, as they defiled into the valley, and stood
by the stream, the torches gleaming in the
foreground, the woman kneeling with out-
stretched hands, and in the back-ground,
grouped together, the accomplices of the act.
What powerful motives could have led to the
perpetration of such a deed ?"
"" The bad passions of men," Sebastian re-
plied, in a voice scarcely articulate, while the
dark face of Indian Joe was thrust forward to
drink in every word with an inquisitive inter-
est that was unusual for one of his race to ex-
hibit.
"There is a Power that often thwarts the
base purposes of man, which was strikingly
displayed in this instance. Nick informs me,"
lie added, regarding Sebastian steadily, " that
the womanwas beautiful. As you have been
with the trapper a long time, you doubtless
saw her. Was she then so handsome, good
youth ?
Sebastian hesitated, while a faint color stole
to his cheeks.
Indian Joe's dark orbs were leveled at the
boy with all their deep and mysterious inten-
sity.                    -
" I saw her," he said, stammering, "and
though many were pleased to think her beau-
tiful, I did not fall in love with her face."
"Her figure ?" queried Pathaway.
" Being but a boy, I am no judge of such
matters," added Sebastian, with affected play-
fulness. " I never heard any one -fault her
form. She certainly had no reason to com-
plain of the gifts of Nature."
Joe's brow now knitted into a. frown, and
the long, delicate lashes that fringed his eyes
quivered with some secret emotion.
" I am talking while I should be acting,"
said Pathaway. "It will not be well to allow
an enemy to surprise one who is no novice in
woodcraft. I must reconnoitre yonder rocks."
The hunter paused, and looked toward Joe,
as if at a loss to know what disposition to make
of him.
" Go with you," he said, comprehending the
glance with that quickness which was charac-
teristic of him.
" No, you must stay with-with Sebastian."
The youth had regarded the gray hunter
more than once with a singular admixture of
doubt, curiosity, and alarm. It seemed to him
that the tones of the man's voice had changed
-that they were more respectful and gentle.
Deference Was what he had never  before
shown him, however kind and friendly his
manner.
" I will return in a moment," said the hun-
ter, and had walked several yards toward the
stream, when the report of a carbiie disturbed
the silence of the basin. Pathaway Staggered
and fell. Sebastian sprang to his side, and

either through terror, the weakness incident
to his wound, or both combined, sank insen-
sible to the ground.  I
Pathway imnediately arose, and perceiv-
ing what had happened to the youth, caught
him in his arms and hurried to a spot more
sheltered from the aim of an enemy. As he
hastened forward, he looked furtively over his
shoulder and saw a little cloud of smoke rising
from the crag where he had seen the figure.
" He is dead ! they have killed him I" mur-
mured Sebastian, almost indistinctly, as he
slowly recovered.
" No ! he lives ; he is with you !" said Path-
away.
The lad opened his eyes with a bewildered
air, and seeing himself supported by the hun-
ter, gently disengaged himself.
"I heard a report and thought you had
fallen. It could not have been fancy," Sebas-
tian added, not yet quite certain what had
happened.
" I was struck by a spent ball, but am un-
injured."
"This wound, I believe, makes a child of
me," replied Sebastian, with a forced smile.
" My flesh, evidently, does not heal so readily
as represented by Nick."
"1I have observed' you attentively, my lad,
and am sure that you have suffered much.
Your hands,"he continued, taking the youth's
in his, " are feverish.  You have not com-
plained enough."
The boy Joe tossed his head and dilated his
nostrils with unequivocal contempt.
"Blood mixed !" he muttered. "Weak--
faint like squaw-child! Young Ingin go on
trail; git bullet git arrow-almost kil -no
cry !"  Then hinting at Sebastian : "le
better put on gown like white woman."
" Be silent, boy !" said Pathaway, with a
rebuking glance. " If your warriors do not
complain of wounds, neither do they talk
much. - The young men and youths who have.
never been on the war-path keep mute tongues
in the presence of their superiors."
Joe turned his back moodily to Pathaway,
but did not cease to-cast occasionally disdain-
ful looks at Sebastian, and there might have
been in them a portioniof hatred. The height-
ened color of the lad told how keenly-he felt
the taunts of Joe. Spurred perhaps by his
derision, possibly because his injury gave him
less pain, he arose and declared himself entire-
ly recovered from his recent ill feelings, which
-he. attributed partly to loss of blood, partly
to the sudden shock of seeing Pthaway pros-
trated by the aim of a lurking foe.
" I'm sorry," he said, with a singular dis-
play of spirit, " that! my rifle was stolen; for
according to present appearances, I shall have
occasion to use it ; andI tell oil, Colonel, I
can shoot quite well. You doubt it, I see, but
I will convince you at the first opportunity
that offers."

do


56- ,       PATIAWAY; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

"No Ingin--no bad white man come ; you
kill 'em quick !"said Joe, looking at Seas-
tian's bow and quiver, which had fallen upon
the ground a few yards distant.
".he bow and arrow," said Pathaway; com-
ing to the rescue," are instruments not to be
desjaised. Your own people, tawny Joe, have
used them with geat effect. I'n not disposed
to alight the eaims of the bow, which was
one:ot the primitive weapons of mankind, in
vogpe long before the rifle and powder were
dreanmed of."
"Joe," observed Sebastian, "is in ill temper.
He is little pleased with the severity of Nick,
but his limbs being now free, I see no reason
that he should murmur."
The young Indian deigned no reply.
Nick and Portneuf were heard approaching.
"Who fired ?" asked the former, quickly.
.:Some one hidden among yonder cliffs,"
Pathaway replied.
"2Nobody hurt, I hope ? We shall have
enopgh to 'tend to 'thout ,lookin' arter gun-
shot wounds."     ,,
";A spent ball struck me upon the side, or
ratherupon the metallic handle of my hunt-
ing knife, doing .o other harm than prostrat-
ing me by the shook."
" That's fortinit I We can't afford to lose
man nor, oy at present. The' critters, I be-
liens, haven't diskivered the natril way to
Bla k Run; but it 'pears they're comm' down
the rocks yonder, for it couldn't been a chance
shot that struck you. Dick Hendricks is in
qirnest, and his new allies, the red niggers, are
up and stirrih'. I should like to draw a bead
on some ont'em, by righty! There'll be warm
work, but I'm sartin you'ltan' bylike,a man.
Whatever happens, .f you  e through it, I
want you to keep a still tong , in your head,
and; not let the p'ison newspapers it hold on't.
What's the use o' bein' held up afore the pub-
lic,,and turned over and over like a brile ? I
swear to gracious," added Nick, taking an old
cap from the tube of his rifle and replacing it
by another, "if the pesky clearing's wasn't so
far off, I'd go down with a load o' peltries, and
buy up ha  a dozen of the condemned con-
earns I"
' I think no one has spoken ill of you in the
clearings,"' said Pathaway.
SI've lived 'cordin to my natur, and why
should a person be spoke .ill of that's lived
'cordin to his natur ? I never cheated nobody
of what b'longed to him, nor sold peltry that
waqtlegaly mine, nor shot a bufferler out o'
waitonness, nor deserted a brother trapper in
need, nor drawed bagk when there was danger,
or rubbed out a heathen red-skin when self-
preservation didn't demand it."
"1Few of your brethren of the gun'and trap
ean say as much," Patbaway replied.
-1tacit consent, the two men walked a few
from the rest of the parties.
You saw no signs of pursuers near the

cul-de-sac ?" said Pathaway, interrogative-
ly.
" Don't talk French, colonel, if you want to
git information out o' me, for I never could
talk much with the Monsbeers ; though I've
picked up a few words here and there from the
French vo a eu    Howsomnever, to come to
the pint, I diskred nothin' to excite s'pi-,
cion that they'd found the entrance to Black
Run. But as Seven-Plumes, Bill Brace, Hen-
dricks and his crew are on our trail, we can't
expect to remain long undisturbed. If there
wasn't but one Ingin in the business, we could
hope to outwit 'em with less trouble ; but
they've got their orders to swarm into every
hidin'-place, pass, valley, gulch, perarie, and
timber in the whole o' this region."
While Nicholas was speaking, Pathaway was
thinking of Sebastian. At one moment he was
tempted to tell frankly his suspicions concern-
ing the sex of the youth ; but, he inwardly
queried, would it be kind to refer to a subject
which Nick took so much pains to conceal ?
Again there was a possibility of mistake. The
assertion of Indian Joe might be false ; 'and
yet that could scarcely be, for there were in-
numerable little circumstances to confirm it.
He resolved that he would be silent, at least
for the present, well assured that Sebastian
was not what his garb would indicate. -
" The lives of those with us and our own be-
ing at stake, how shall we escape the toils 'f
our enemies ?" Pathaway asked.
"I thought," answer ed Nick, "pervidin' we
reached this. place, we should be safe ; but you
observe that human calkilations isn't callers to
be depended on. A nice hidin' spot is this
under common car cumstances ; but as luck'll
have it, Hendricks knows the way down yon-
der rocks. Turn your eyes to that crag that
stands out so square and bold. Well, 'twas on
that -that I see the two men, Hendricks and
Bill Brace, appear with-their torches on a sar-
tin night that I've mentioned afore. I remem-
ber how they looked wavin' 'em, to make the
glare fall upon the basin and on the surround-
i' rocks. He wore, a red sash, Cap'n Dick
did. Arter stannin there a minute, grim and
onnat'ral, as 'twere, they vanished from sight, }
to start up ag'in presently, more to the right,
where you see the peaks gradooated one above
another, like stairs. They toiled down slow
and keerful, did Brace and Hendricks, with the
four ruffians ahind 'em bringin' the lovely gal.
I can very well recollect how the torches sunk
and rose ag'in, as they wound down the rough
way."
"I would like to know," said Pathaway, ear-
nestly, "what became of that woman ?"
" 'm wandering' from my siubjeck," answer-
ed Nick, hurriedly. " You want to know what
shall we do? '11 give ye' my pinionn, then
I'll hear your'n. Bear in mind, colonel, that
you've been fired at, which couldn't happened
if you hadn't been seen. Well, that's a dis-

A

PATHAWAY ; OR, TlE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.     87

kivery, I allow, so that we're no longer hid,
but found. Now, what can we do, hemmed up
in this little pocket, with Ingins and whites
prowlin' in the rocks all round us ?"
" And I might ask, too, what we shall do in
the open country with the whole pack on our
trail ?"
" We can't trust to speed," said Nick, slow-
ly.- " No, no ; speed won't do ; we must put
eunnin' ag'in cunnin'. If our enemies are wise
as serpents, we must be wiser. - We must blind
their eyes."
" W ere you and I alone interested in this
matter, we should have little to fear; but there
are other lives, Nicholas-Sebastian and poor
Andrew Jeanjean."
" Nick was in the act of replying, when a fig-
ure emerged from the narrow pass and ap-
proached them. It was Multnomah, the Shos-
hons chief. His countenance was grave, his
manner dignified.
" Has Doubledark forgotten the words of
the Shoshons ?" he asked. "Does he scorn to
go where the birds build their nests ?"
61I come here, Ingin, because I thought the
place little known to white or red-skin, and
would be a good spot to leave the houses, least-
wise. The words of Multnomah are not like
the wind that blows on unheeded ; they're laid
up here."' Nick touched his head.
" Seven-Plumes has told his young men, his
women and children, that there will be a scalp-
dance at his village before many days. The
Blackfeet boys are gathering sticks to light
many fires."
"Let 'em gather 'em!'1 retorted Nick, con-
tracting his brows. "They'd better put 'em
under kiver to keep 'em dry ; for it'll belong,
in my 'pinion, afore they use 'em on flesh o'
mine. The Master of Lif didn't make me for
fire-wood; if lie had, I should been drier and
more combustible. As for the matter o' skulp,
mine was made to be'carried on my head, and
not on a pole ; leastwise, not on sich a pole as
the varmints parade their trophies on..  don't
feel consarned for myself; for I know that
both savage and civilized fear this long bit o'
iron which can carry death a hundred rods.'
I've p'inted it many and many a time, and it
never let out its fire and smoke for -nothin';
when it's voice was heerd, I know'd where to
look for the bullet. It hasn't made all its
speeches yet ; there's them not fur off as it
must reason with and talk toit its own'riginal
way."
" The name of Doubledark is feared by his
enemies," replied Multnomah. " Butrlook at
the rattlesnake, who carries poison in his head,
and is terrible when he bites ; where is his
power when he is beset by the ants ; he
writhes and darts his tongue in vain ; his ene-
mies are so many that he cannot contend with
them, and dies in agony. A cloud hangs over
Black Rock ; before morning it will gather to
a tempest; call your people and fly."

The Shoshone spoke earnestly, almost au-
thoritatively.
"Yes, I'd made up my mind for that, Ingin,
and was proposin' it to the colonel when you
come. 1 shallcotnt on you, and I trust you
won't desert us, for we need your quickeye
and your true'rifle. The losses must be Ift
they'll be as safe here as anywhere. What
could the poor animiles do where we're goin'?
Nothin'; they'd be a bother to us and no good
to themselves ; for pasturage is mighty scarce,
I allow, up thereaway." Nick pointed to the
North, then joined Sebastian and .those that
were with him.
This conversation took place on the east
side of the basin, and so far within the shadow
of the inaccessible wall, that persons occur -
ing the cliffs at the west would have been gift-
ed with unusual sharpness of eyesight to see
them. Multnomah 'awaited the return of the
trapper silently ; and when he came, moved
noiselessly toward the cut-de~sac, and was fol-
lowed without questioning. They had walked,
but a short distance, when Pathaway reecllect.
ed that his hunting-knife had slipped from'its
sheath 'while he was talking with Nick; he
went back to recover it. As he stooped to take
it from the ground, he saw a narrow niche in
the wall of the rock, in which lay a; small
package. Curiosity impelled him to take lit ;
it was a beaver-skin wrapped carefully about
something. He unrolled it; the wrapper con-
tained, much to his surprise, the long, dark,
shining tresses of a woman's hair. Holding
up the silky threads to the t'aint moonlight, he
examined them with mute eagerness, but not
without many internal queries. U pon what
head grew those wavy locks ? What hand
severed and deposited them there? Did this
strange waif pertain to the old mystery of
Black Run, or was it a memento of some later.
tragedy ? It seemed to him that he had seen
tresses as soft and glossy. His lips moved ;
he murmured something--'it might have been
a name.
- Hearing a footstep, lie thrust the hair be-
heath his frock; and turning, with a start, be-
held Nick Whiffes; he was embarrassed, 'and
the hunter thought annoyed ; the latter met
'his steady look with suddenly-heihtened col,
or, as if detected in an act that might be con-
strued into weakness. Neither spoke immedi-
ately.  Nick was the first ,to  break si-
lenee.
"I didn't know it was the natur ofa white
man to take skulps," he said, with manifest
disturbance. "I allowed, colonel,. that you
had a dispersition above cruelty; and not cru-
elty, neither, but trifles, as 'twere. Give itto
me."
The trapper hesitatingly extended hishand.
"You yourself do not appear to be entirely
regardless of trifles,". answered Pathaway,
smiling.
"It's mine," added Nick, gravely.""'If


A               PATHAWAY; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.
'twas ayoung gal's, 'twould be diff'rent ; but then the latter crept away, and was gone some
bein', as I said, mine--" -~              time. He came back and conferred earnestly
"Yours !''-interrupted Pathaway. "Come, with the trapper in the language of his people.
Nieholas, it's absurd to say that locks like these  " The chief says," said Nick, interpreting to
grew on that weather-beaten head of yours !" Pathaway, "that the Blackfeet are round us,
:'Twas a good many year ago, when I's a movin' this way and that, smellin' arter our
bo,, You see, colonel, my hair was long's a trail like dogs. To escape, we shall need eye
woman's then, and softer nor sewing-silk."  and ear,'a quick hand, a cautions foot, and si-
Nick did not raise his eyes to meet the, re- lence. Portneuf, keep near Andrew Jeanjean,
guards of the hunter, but kept them persistent- and see that he don't sing, and that he walks
ly averted.                               as the rest of us do. The critter's docile, and
" Your curls have faded since that time !" easily controlled. Colonel, look out for In-
returned the latter, laughingly. " They are  dian Joe, for I observe that he's more sulky-
alniost yellow now, and each individual hair nor common."
has remarkably increased in diameter."      The Shoshons bent his tall figure, and
"It's mine, not'stannin', and not mine, nei- moved toward the-west, the parties'treading in
their, but my sweetheart's. 'Member well his footsteps. They passed over ground bro-
enough when she out 'em off. 'Molly,' sez I, ken and volcanic, now surmounting rocks and
' give me a lock o' your hair,' sea I. And with crossing chasms, now winding to the right; now
that I gave her one o' those meanin' looks .that to the left, now stealing along the brink of pre-
was my natur when I's younger, and which cipitous crags, and finally descending by an
thawed her amazin.' ' You may have 'em all,' abrupt- slope to a sparsely-timbered valley.
ses she, sighin' as gentle as .a nussin' dove. All this was not effected without painstaking
With that she took a pair of sheers-no,' and several alarms; nor was the distance,
'twasn't a pair- sheers, neither." He.paused when accomplished, long. The murmuring of
and stimulated his memory by the friction of water was heard, and Multnomah stopped be-
fiv digits upon his head, as if accuracy was side a running stream.  -
of the first importance. " Oh Lord ! no.    " Hist !" said Nick.
'Twas a&amp;knife she whipped it off with. 'Twas  The parties became as motionless as trees.
a,1itle more nor I wanted for present use, but  " It is a squirrel runnin' over the leaves,"
I know'd 'twould keep, so I wrapped it in a said Nick, in answer to a questioning glance
beaver-akin, and carter carryin' it some years, from Sebastian..
tucked it into that niche for safe keepin' ; and  " I hear nothing," said the boy.
it you hain't no objections, scarcely, I'll trou- -" Your .young ears are not like mine," he
b  ye fortt"                           replied.
Kick reached forth his hand again, but with-  - " What is it ?" asked Sebastian, anxiously.
ou) trusting his eyes to encounter those of his  " The leaves rustlin'; but whose afeard of
friend.                                   the rustling' o' leaves ?" Then to Multnomah,
"I'll give you a trusty hand, Nicholas,- and  in the same suppressed tones, " Ingin, stay
that's far better than a- package of girl's hair." here !"
Pathaway gras    the extended member,     Nick glided away with his long rifle at a
an$ shook it cordially.                  trail. Sebastian watched him with nervous
' Your ingenuouslface, Nick Whiffles, tells  eyes, and saw him stoop lower and lower as he
the truth when your ingenious tongue tells a  receded. The darkness finally shut him from
lie.- Give it up at once, my friend. Confess view.. Each listened breathlessly for the sound
that this is a memento of the torch-light trag- of his footsteps, but they sent back no tell-tale
edr L"wecho.. The . Shoshone had stretched himself
da 'shaw! why should I care about a wisp of upon the earth, and was lying with his ear to
woman's hair?, It's no more to me -nor so the ground, giving as little sign of- vitality as,
muh straw'! Keep it, colonel, if you're so if life had departed, All waited in expecta-
minded, and wear it next your heart. 'Twas. tion, but of what they scarcely knew. Pre-
a squaw it. come off of, and a right jaunty sently there was a bound like the spring-of a
critter she was, on'y her mouth was a couple panther, then a commotion among the leaves,
o' sizes too large, her nose rather flat, and her as of persons struggling. But this was of.
squat nd ,dumpy. But the ribbons, short continuance ; the disturbance was quick-
,st f, beada and brooches that she used t4 ly over, and Nick shortly stood before them.
wear, waa costly"in the extreme." ,He nodded to-the Indian, who gave a peculiar
"Zo doubt! no doubt" answered Patha- approbative sound from  the ,depths of his
way,&amp;ly. And the two, by mutual consent, chest.
hasten  to rejoin those they. had left.     "O Uncle Nick !" gasped Sabastian.
" It couldn't be helped, little 'un, and one
from the war-path will never be missed where
. :HAPTEIl XXV.                there'sso-many. The voice of therifle couldn't,
' L I G H T £N D P U-R s U I T.   be trusted hereabouts ; it peaks too loud for
The parties issued from the narrow pass. safety."-
Nick and the Shoshone whispered together,  At that moment, an object floated down the

I

a

PATHAWAY; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

stream ; every eye was riveted upon it. Part
of a red face, some feathers, and a tufted scalp-
lock, were' for a brief time visible.
" One diffikilty the less !" said Nick, quietly.
"He was a foolish young warrior, to follow
Doubledark," said the Shoshone. " His eyes
were blinded, or he'd known the trail of Dou-
bledark is a long trail."
" You're right, Ingin ; thus far, my trail
has been long for them as looked for me to my
hurt. 'Twould been short enough if the
heathen'had had their way;. but I've an eye
and an ear for 'etm that shortens their days.
'Tisn't because I seek 'em that sich things
happen. 'Tis'nt my natur to hurt nobody,
but the Master o' Lite says to every one plainly
enough: ' Take care o' yourself !' SNow if I
didn't take care myself, who'd take care on
me ?"
While Nick was speaking, the Shoshone
dragged a large canoe from the bushes, and
launched it upon the stream.
" Get in-get in !" said Nick. " Go fust,
Sebastian, and you next, little Ingin. That's
it ! Mind what you do, Jeanjean, or you'll tip
the frail consarn over. You're the' boy for a
paddle, Portneuf ; you used to drive a canoe
right smart. 'fat hangin' affair hasn't
strengthened your arms any, I take it. Path-
away, you'd better sAt in the middle, with your
rifle pooty consider'ble convenient. Sparrer-
Legs, don't shiver as if you s'peeted a cold
shower-bath. for the thing won't tip if you keep
quiet. A ship o' the line isn't safer nor an In-
gin bark well managed,"
The dogs, which, in obedience to the com-
mand of their master, had crouched beside
Sebastian, now stood on shore, looking wish-
fully at Nick. '
"Let the animiles get in," said the latter.
"There's room enough, and they'll make- too
much noise running' along the bank if we don't
give 'em a chance with us. I never desart my
dogs, Calamity, leastwise. He's been true to
me, and I'll be the same to him. Once, when
there was a cussed little diffikilty with the
Ingins, and he was sick, and his legs was weak,
I took him up and carried him in my arms.
Many and many a step has them legs took for
me ;   miles and miles have they trotted
ahind me, my companions and my friends when
there's nobody to speak to. I'd thank ye,"
added Nick, unconsciously raising his voice,
addressing Pathaway, if any one in particular,
"jest to take a p'int blank look at them eyes ;
.they a'n't blue nor black, nor like a woman's
lookers ; but'they're mighty good dog's eyes,
and have a heap of understannin' in 'em."
Calamity's grizzly eyes twinkled inquiringly.
There certainly were interrogation points in
them.            ,
"I don't say that his'n's a handsome head,
but it's a honest one. He does snap 'easion-
ally at Smuggler, and snubs him when he's too
familiar, as 'twere ; and he will bite your
legs if you tread on him ; but he's got quali-

89

ties that put him on a footin' with many var-
mints that go on two feet instead o' four."
The dogs sprang into the little vessel, and
the chief, taking his place in the stern, sent it
into the middle of the-stream with a stroke of
his paddle. Portneuf aided his Pfforts, and the
canoe shot onward like an arrow.'
Trees fringed the bank, and, casting their
branches over the water, were mirrored duskily
upon its surface. As the paddles sank and tose4
noiselessly, Nick, reclining in the bow of the
birchen craft, with his rifle thrown forward
across his arm, watched the coverts and the
vistas on either side.
Sebastian began to feel a sense of security,
which Pathaway noticed with satisfaction, da
was turning to express his thanks to -Multno-
mah, when the war-cry of a Blackfoot, broke
the, silence with a sharp and explosive disso-
nance. The paddles of the Shoshons and the
voyageur simultaneously backed water. The
rifle of Nick Whiffles seemed to spring to his
cheek by instinct, rather than to be placed
there by his usually deliberate hands. The
canoe vibrated and quivered on the stream, so
abruptly was its momentum checked.. The
long barrel had become fixed, and hurled forth
its unerring messenger before a word' was
spoken, or ere the quick eyes of Sebastian had
discovered the object of his aim. The leaves
stirred overhead and the rocks rang back the
echo. Something fell into the stream, redden-
ing its clhar surface. As the canoe swept on,
Sebastian glanced backward, and beheld a long
tuft-look trailing upon the water. For the
next few seconds nothing was heard save the
slight sound of the skillfully and rapidly fall'
ing paddles.
CHAPTER XXVI.
ON THH WATER.
Each of the Northern adventurers expected
to hear the thrilling war-cry of the Blackfoot
answered from -many clamorous throats,;, but,
the intermountain quietude remained unbro-
ken. Neither wolf, prairie-dog, nor, panther'
disturbed- the deep solitude. The canoe shot
steadily onward. Considerable- time elapsed
before the wily trapper perceptibly relaxed his
vigilance of eye and ear, or thought it prudent'
to trust the sound of his voice. It was now
that Pathaway had opportunity to'observe him
when peril impended ; to note 'his coolness
the absence of hurry and perturbation from
hit deportment, and to recognize the wonderful
acuteness of his senses. For himself, he mani-
fested no uneasiness; it wat only when his
gaze rested upon the slight-figure of Sebastian
that a wave of anxiety ruffled his- features.
" The branches hang low," he muttered,
raising his head, an'd speaking in those inde-
scribable tones that are the true index of dpn-
ger, "the branches hang low, and the trees
stand thick together like platoons of soldiers.
I notice the timber when it grows in that way ;-
t's a pooty sight to me in gin'ral, for Natur

,
,
of
Yj
'
,i
i
t
R
a


*

PATHAWAY ; OR, THF- MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

and I are on friendly- footin'; but on sich oe-
.casions as this, I see the rows of trunks and
the green follyage with distrust--a ereepin' of
the blood, like little mites of ice in the veins.
'Tisn't fear-you understan' the feelin', Sho-
shone. Take away the 'sponsibility of per-
teetin' and carin' for somebody, and I should
walk this timber like a Camanche on the trail;
or what's more Christian and civilized, like an
old free trapper, as I be."
"What do von think ?" Pathaway asked,
bending toward the hunter, and unconsciously,
as it would seem, in his earnestness, placing
his hand on Sebastian's shoulder.
The youth shrank from the touch, then
smiled at his own sensitiveness."
Indian Joe flashed spitefully at the hunter
as he withdrew his hand.
" I think that my shootin'-tube spoke ray-
ther loud, and must have been heerd by them
that seek us ; but the simple crack of a rifle
wouldn't locate us with any great sartinty,
On the water We leave no trail, but if they dis-
kiver the place where we launched this canoe,
they'll be houndin' arter us afore long."
" Do you not know," continued Pathaway,
'some covert, nook, or hiding-place where
this wounded lad can find safety ?"
"I wish you and Nicholas would feel less
care for me. Safety is worth no more to me
than to you. This wound is comparatively of
no account, only so far as it prevents me
from-from   defending myself. It cannot, it
shall not make me burdensome 1" exclaimed
Sebastian.
".Stop the craft, Ingin," said Nick, with a
backward motion of his hand.
"6Doubledark is a fox 1" answered the-Sho-
shone.
They had reached a spot where the banks
were less thickly studded with trees, and which
permitted a further range of vision. Nicholas
pointed with his rifle to-a cluster of piion that
was scarcely perceptible in the darkness and
distance.
" The eyes of Doubledark conquer the.
'night!"'added Multnomah.
"Put the birch ashore; chief."
Pathaway strained his eyes, but saw nothing
to render the clump of trees an object of sus-
picion. 'The vessel touched the bank ; Nick
sprang out.
"Wait for me, redskin, and Ill soon bring
you word whether the stream is'clear."
" I will go also," said Pathaway, leaping to
the bank.
"No," replied the trapper, "I'm  afeard
your foot is not light enough. You're better
used to the trail of four-footed animiles than
to them with two."
" I am- accustomed to an active life, and
eannot-remain passive when there is danger,
and action is. required. Lead on, Doubledark,
and possibly you'll think less lightly of my
-skill.p,

"I know you're mighty good at some things,
colonel; but approachin' an inemy at his bi-
vouae is a different matter from stannin' bold-
l up to a danger that's right afore ye, and
on't need to be unmasked."
" I a not a novice, and do insist upon shar-
ing my proportion of danger," returned Patha-
way, with firmness.
" Well, you're a handy lad, and I allow can
be trusted-where others would be in the way."
Without further discussion, Nick started off
at a quick pace, followed by Pathaway. Hd
the ground been even, the distance to the
piiion would have been quickly and easily ac-
complished ; but being rough and unequal, the
task  was not, unattended with difficulty.
Gliding through grass and bushes without
effort, apparently, Nicholas reached the mar-
gin of the timber ; before which time the gray
hunter had discovered light puffs of smoke
occasionally mounting against the sky, or
drifting fitfully along the tops of the trees.
"Many eyes might be deceived," observed
Nicholas, "and mistake that smoke for a vapor
risin' front the ground ; but it's real smoke
coming' from a fire kindled with dry leaves and
sticks, fed slowly by experienced hands, to keep
a clear flame. We of the wilderness under-
stant these things, you see."
"It is smoke, without question," the other
replied.,
"I won't tell ye to be cautious, 'cause you've
sense enough to know that we must be serpent
like when w9're dealin' with the heathen that
make tricks and stratagems a part o' their
life. Come on, colonel, and show your p'ints."
Throwing forward his thin and supple body,
the trapper pushed his way into.the timber.
His form had lost none of its more youthful
vigor. The muscles had grown stronger with
exercise, and toil had consolidated bone and
sinew.
While the hunter admired his noiseless loco-
motion, he strove in vain to equal it.
"You do 'mazin' well, colonel," he whis-
pered ; "but a stick will sometimes crack and
a bush shake with the most skillful of us.
You'll git the knackon't with practice. Hist !
We're clost onto 'em, by mighty !"\
Nick's long finger was pointed to an open-
ing in the trees, and Pathaway following its di-
rection, saw dusky figures sitting by a fire so
small that the blaze could have been covered
by one's hand. Nicholas made a warning ges-
ture to the hunter, and again moved on, with
his knees to the earth and his rifle thrown out
before him.
Several minutes passed before they attained
a position offering them a full view of the
group.
" Look!" said Nick, grasping Pathaway by
the arm, ano putting hislips to his ear. "See
that varmint with his back partly toward us ?
It's Jack Wiley! The p'ison critter's forgot
the service I done him. If it hadn't been for

I'

1       '
t
i

91

me, his skulp would be hangin' this minute in
a Blackfoot lodge !"
The trapper threw his rifle a trifle more in
advance, and laid his cheek to the breech.
"A nice chance! a nice chance !" he mut-
tered. "What a pity the airth can't be re-
lieved of sich a mean skunk immejiate ! Ah,
colonel ! how human natur is sometimes put
to it for patience !"
The object of the hunter's remarks turned
his face to the fire in addressing one of his
savage comrades ; Pathaway recognized it at
once.
"They've killed some kind o' game lately,
most likely, and have stopped to cook and eat.
Huge feeders are Ingins, though they can fast
when worst comes to worst. If you'd jest
tried your skill on his 'ug'lar art'ries when you
had him tied at Trapjer Trace, you wouldn't
been guilty o' no great crime."
Pathaway had frequently seen Indians in
their war-paint, but never so completely
changed from the common form of humanity
as these. There were eight of them, most
wickedly bedaubed and metamorphosed with
various pigments and savage arts. Their visa-
ges, As lighted up by the tremulous blaze,
were truly startling.  Pathaway thought of
Sebastian, and experienced painful anxiety for
his safety.
" I've drawed a bead on him," said Nick,
whose ire was excited by the treachery of Wi-
ley. '"Shall I pull trigger, colonel?"'
"No, no I" whispered Pathaway.   "Such
an act would be folly. Calm yourself!"
" I couldn't be calmer; and not that, neither,
for I'm stirred up in'ardly. Fine company he's
in, isn't he ?  What's more frightful nor an
Ingin in his'paint; to them, I mean, that isn't
'customed to the sight. - But whatis it?  On'y
a little red and white clay with a streak o'
black in't. Sich contrivances may do for wo-
men and children, boys' leastwise ; -but full
growed men, of whatsomnever color, should be
'bove it. Bunt it's their natur', and that's all
we can say. Eight of 'em besides Wiley, and-
quite near the stream, too. You can jes'
ketch a glimpse on't runnin' like a silver
thread out yender.. Wonder how we shall git
by? We can try it, and if they sight us we've
the consolation o' knowing' we've four good
rifles."
The hunter made no answer, but watched
the grim group with breathless interest. A
noise, so very slight that it was scarcely audi-
ble, caused him to' look backward over his
shoulder ; behind him stood the dog Calamity, s
with his nose uplifted, and his large eyes fixed
with striking intensity upon the savages, the I
hairs on his head and back erect and bristling.
" The dog has come I" said the hunter.   a
oI know it," returned Nicholas.  "He'sv
been stannin' ahind ye some time, but don't be s
skeerd ; he's slier and more cat-like nor you g
be.' The critter's follered me miles on the

trail 'thout disturbin' a leaf, and nothin' suits
him better. He isn't interested in common
doin's, he isn't, but is in his element when
there's danger. Obsarve," added Nick, in the
same low whisper in which the conversation
had been carried on, " how fierce - his eves
glow ! He's brave, I allow ! At a motion' of
my finger he'd fly into the midst of 'em, and
like it amazin'. ButtI s'pose we might as well
creep back, for our arrant seems to be done.
Turn tail, Calamity, and heave ahead !"
CHAPT74 RWXXVI.
THE nRFUGE.
Nick stepped silently into the canoe. The
Shoshon6 glanced at the trapper's uncom-
municative face and patiently waited for him
to speak.
" Eight of 'em," said Nick, turning his eyes
anxiously to the east.   "Eight, and Jack
Wiley is with -'em. Daylight is coin' and
their fire burns well down to the bank, but
we'll try it, Ingin. It's runnin' the g'antlet,
as 'twere, but that I've done afore. Step
aboard, colonel. 'Twas 'mong the Crows that
I run the g'antlet, Shoshond. I's fresh in the
trappin'-grounds, then.^ I could took care o'
myself well 'nough if I'd been alone and
hadn't had a young feller with me, who wls-
new from the big elearin's and not up to the
ways o' the kentry. His hose was shot under
him andhe was wounded in the leg. Recol-
lect mighty well how he looked as he sot ,on
the ground, the picter o' despair."
" g This is the last o' me, Nick,' sez he.
' I've got to die,' sez he.
"' I'm afeard so,!' sez I.
"'I've got brethers and sisters that'll cry
for me,' sez he, ' and a mother, too,' sex he.
"You can't tell how the word 'mother'
started me ; it tetched somethin' tender in my
nature . Is mounted on a hoss as swift as the
wind ; Suggestion his name was ; an odd
name, but a good critter. If you should ever
meet Buck Bison, Ingin, he'll tell ye the p'ints
o' that animile.
"'Jim,' sez I, 'I've got no mother to cry
for me!' And with that I leaped from Sug-
gestion's back quicker'n a wink. The Crows
was then pesky nigh, mounted .most of 'em,
and yellin' like a hundred catamounts.
"' There shan't be no weepin' for you, Jim,'
sez I, 'if I can help it,' takin' him frofn the
ground and puttin' him into the saddle in halt
a second.
"'Good God, Nick! What are you doin'?'
sez he.
"' Take the reins,' sez I, 'and if there's
Koss-flesh that Can save you, it's under ye.'
" You never seed sick -a 'stonished look, I
allow, as he give te ! He looked as if he's
willin' to die hisself, then. He was' going' to
ay something' that was choking' him, when ,I
give Suggestion a cut, and off he darted.
"'God bless you, Nick 1' was the words

U

I

/

E

PATIIAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

-
*


92    !    PATHAWAY; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

that came back to me as the hoss whirled him
away."
"And you, Nick, and you ?" interrogated
Sebastian.
Nicholas smoothed his beard, made a mo-
tion to the Shoshons, and quietly answered :
" I sot down on the ground where Jim had
been a moment afore, with my arms aside me.
In the fury of pursuit, two thirds o' the var-
mints galloped by me ; but presently I was
diskivered and surrounded with red faces,
tufted heads, guns, and tomahawks. I fought
'em, and there was a few losses that scamp-
ered off 'thout a' redskin to ride 'em. There
was vellin's and hootin's, I swear to gracious 1
I's taken, in course, as I told ye, and there
was great rejoicin's. When we reached the
Crow campI's obleeged to run atween two
rows o' warriors, armed with all sorts o' wee-
pons, to be used for my benefit. Soon's they'd
placed me and told me to run, I leaped up
like a wounded bufferler, 'lighted on the head
and shoulders of a copperskm, wrenched away
his weepon, and cleared a path through the
varmints like lightnin'. In less'n half a min-
ute I's'in the timber, with the whole Nor'west
afore me. My friends was surprised to see me
come into camp, havin' give me up' for lost."
"And the young man ?" said Sebastian, in-
quiringly.
" Was safe and sound, savin' the little gun-
shot diffikilty in his leg. Gunshot diffikilties
A'n't alleys mortal, little 'un ; I've had 'em,
hind I know what they be. Keep nearer the
right bank, Shoshone ; the closer we git to it
the better it'll be, for the sarpents '1l be more
likely to look over us."
Nicholas.raised his long slim neck, and east
a calculating eye toward the growth of pinon.
"'Twas a noble act !" said Delaunay, with
enthusiasm.
" Shoshone, you can see them little' puffs
misting up through the trees; other eyes might
mistake 'em for wreaths of fog, but you and
I, chief, know better. And the colonel, too,
has an eye and a mighty knack, I allow.
Frenchman, raise your paddle and let the
birch drift ; the Ingin will guide it; it's his
natur' to manage a canoe."
There were signs of the coming day in the
east-a faint tinge low down on the horizon ;
a soft glow between the earth and sky.
"1Now bend low, all of ye, and screen your
heads as much as possible 1" suggested the
ever-earefuliNick.
"Let your head sink a little lower," whisp-
ered Iathaway to Sebastian Delaunay. " It
offers a mark to an enemy."
"Why should I fear an enemy more than
you ?" he answered. " I am sure you offer a
better target to a marksman than I."
"I care not ; I am wont to danger ; but
yoti, you--"
Pathaway paused.
Sebastian looked up with a start.

"Caution is better nor courage," said Nick
Whiffles. "'Tis here, leastwise."
The canoe floated steadily toward the point
of danger. The stream fell off as they pro-
ceeded, and the current grew quicker. Here
and there white water and a broken surface
told where rocks were hidden, but the Sho-
shone, with a motion of his paddle, sent the
vessel this way or that, shunning the danger-
ous spots with the skill and ease of long prac.
tice.
As they neared the pines, each mind was
natui'ally expectant. Even the face of Nick
became more intense in expression, and the
manner of the Shoshons more wary and absorb-
ed in his employment. Gently the light craft
drifted on. They were passing the fire, when it
was drawn into an eddy and whirled around
several times. Pathaway believed discovery
inevitable. Glancing shoreward, he saw dusky
forms, some sitting, and some standing ; Jack
Wiley was prominent in the group.  It was
manifest, from  the sudden  contraction of
Nick's brows, that he, too, saw the same spec-
tacle.  The canoe rocked, swayed to and fro,
trembled an instant, then shot from the circling
waters into the current, governed by the po-
tent hand of the Shoshon6.
Some time elapsed before a word was spok-
en, during which the aria, of Portneuf aided
in propelling the vessel. The roaring of a
fall was heard, and the chief turned the canoe
to the shore, which in that place was sterile
and rocky.
" Git out-hide .canoe--go no further by
water," he said.
The parties stepped out upon the rocks. In
obedience to the direction of the chief, Nick
and Portneuf lifted the canoe upon their
shoulders, and carrying it several rods, stop-
ped at the fall. The stream, which was nar-
row, was still narrower there The water fell
over the ledge some six feet in a clear, un-
broken sheet. Under this fall the canoe Was
thrust, and the water, shooting over it, effec-
tuallv concealed it from view.
" Nobody but an Ingin," said Nick, "or
some one that knowed Ingin ways, would
thought of sich a hidin'-place.  But there
you see 'tis, with a ledge shelvin' over it, and
the watery elements coverin' it like a blanket.
Which way now, chief, forwe trust this mat-
ter wholly to you ?"
" This way,'' answered Multnomah, "One
at a time, and step as I do."
"One at a time means Ingin file ; and by
steppin' as he does, means to tread in his
tracks ; and not in his tracks neither, 'cause he
won't make none ; but to put your feet where
he puts his'n. Don't step too long, Shoshon6,
for Sparrer-Legs hasn't a long span of the leg
as 'twere."      --
A single ray of sunlight darted across the
ranges, falling like a trail of gold toward the
west.

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

" See !" said Multnomah, "the Master of
Life sends us a guide. 'Tis a good sign, Dou-
bledark, and we'll follow it."'
"Sartin ! sartin !" said Nick.  Then to
Pathaway, apologetically: "'Tis the natur' of
a heathen to b'lieve in signs, omens, and mani-
tos, and I a'n't sure but they're right. Why
shouldn't they be ? Don't-they live the near-
est to natur'? Isn't natur' pooty much as the
Great Spirit made it ?"
"I'm  not much of a causist !" responded
Pathaway.
" I don't know what that may happen to be,
colonel, nor I don't keer much ; but it stan s
ye in hand to know more nor I do on 'count
o' your book-larnin'."
" My sweetheartwas a prairie-flower,
She dwelt beside the flowing water-;
I wooed her in her wildwood bower,
I loved the wandering trapper's daughter.
Oh, the trapper's daughter !"
It was the voice of Andrew Jeanjean, sing-
ing. Nicholas sprang to stop him, but the
strain was so soft and musical, and vibrated so
plaintively through the trees, that he could
not find it in his heart to check him till the
touching burden of his song had ceased.
"I've got a new idee," said.the trapper,
gently ; ".and not a new idee, neither, for I've
carried it about in my thinkin' orgins sev'ril
days. I'm goin' to operate on that critter's
head, by mighty."
The trapper levelled his long forefinger at
Andrew.
" Pistols, traps, peltries, buffaloes, and other
things !" said Jeanjean, with his unmeaning
face turned to Nick.
" Jes' so ! jes' so !" responded Nick, nod-
ding.^ "'Specially other things ! Dr. Whif-
fles used to operate a sight on broken heads.
He used to japan 'em; that is, take out a
piece o' bone and clap in a piece o' silver in-
stead on't."
"That process is called trepanning, uncle
Nick," said Sebastian.
" I said trapannin'; and-right well the doe-
tor knew how to do it. Now I don't 'tend to
go the whole figger and put in a piece o' sil-
ver, but just insart the p'int o' my knife and
lift up the bone where it presses on the brain.
I've got a steady hand, and I'm sure I can
bring back his reason, or leave him no worse
off nor I found him. I won't kill hini, least-
wi'e. I've sounded the diffikilty with my fin-
gers, and diskivered the skull pushed right
down into the soft parts. I used to know the
tetchnical names of the orgins. I ha'n't for-
got the titles of the two milkbranes that the
thinkin' fakilties is done up in, like blankets :
one's called the p'ison-matter and 'tother the
do-ye-matter."
"The pia mater and dura mater, I think,"
said Pathaway.
"Sartin, so I said and so 'tis. I was well

93

varsed in these things when- I's with the old
doctor that practiced Lobely. I know what
he'd do, if he's here-not Dr. Whiffles, but the
botany doctor-he'd give him a 'metie ; but I
'don't 'magine 'twould start the skull an artom.
No, no ! it wouldn't do it, though it has a
great raisin' power so far as the stumieh is con-
sarned. Tread carefully, sonny, and step in
the same place. Ingin, don't take sich long
strides ; the boy has a diflikilty in reachin'..
He isn't set up so fur from the ground aqyou
be, you know. Lower posted, so to speak0"
For an hour or more, the Shoshons pursued
a straight course over a hatd, unyielding soil,
then, reaching the deep gulch, turned sudden-
ly to the south. Nick and Pathaway looked
at him inquiringly, but asked no questions.
The gulch led them to a valley running to the
east, which they followed till the sun was high
in the, heavens. Sebastian and Indian Joe
showed unmistakable signs of weariness, the
former being supported the latter part of the
way by Nick, and assisted by Pathaway when-
ever the trapper afforded him an opportunity,
which was - seldom. Joe began to lag, and
Nicholas ffear'ng that he meditated leaving
them, making fatigue a pretext to favor the
design, made the dog Calamity, alias Misfor-
tune, walk at his heels and keep guard, over
his movements.
The boy, clearly, entertained a great terror
of the dog, and his muttered growls and dis-
trusttul looks always had the effect to quicken
his pace. Pathaway remnarked that he really
seemed exhausted, and advised halting a few
moments to give him needed rest.
"An, Ingin boy git tired !" exclaimed;Niek,
incredulously. "That's onreasonable, colonel.
Redskin boys are calkilated mostly for run-
nin'. He's makin' it, depend on't." Then to
Joe, with threatening brow:
"Come along, Little PisonI Don't play
'possum with an old hunter. Look at Misfor-
tin; he's a smilin' at ye from ahind ; he'll have
hold o' your heels next."
Joe - stopped:and supported himself by a
tree, then his form sank, and he gradually slid
down to the root, murmuring :
"Ingin Joe tired ; no walk no more."
Nick stepped back and deliberately raised
the lad's head from his hands in which he had
rested it.
"What a set o' boys we've got, by mighty !
The sarpint's cryin', or jest ready to, true's
you live. You'll make a great warrior, won't
you, sonny? 'Your name'll be famous 'mong
your red brethren 'thout doubt !"
"You are hard upon Joe," said Pathaw .
" He is probably unused to walking. Child-
ren among the Blackfeet are accustomed to
ride from infancy, or at least as soon asthey
are large enough to cling to a horse's mane.
Your dog is too watchful, and really partakes
of your own distrust. Call him away, Nicho-
las, and I'll help Joe along."

l

,

*u

r

1I


94

PATFIAWAY ; OR, TILE MOUNTAIN' OUTLAWS.

" Queer boy ! condemned queer boy I" mut-
tered Nick to himself.
"Wabuma 1" exclaimed the Shoshone, lead-
ing on again.
Pathaway took the Indian youth by the arm,
and with this friendly support he was able to
proceed for half an hourlonger, when a sud-
den turn in the valley brought them in sight
of thexmimie city.
"The Ingin knows what he's about," said
Nicholas, in reply to an inquiring glance from
Pathaway. "ie's doubledon our track and
come back ag'in. The critters won't think o'
loolin' for us so near home. A little ahead of
us is the Devil's Gate, which is hid from view
now by the objecks atween. The chief knows
a hidin'-place for us up thereaways, I'll be
bound."
Multnomah struck to the left, and the par-
ties were soon winding among towering rocks,
beside which their figures looked like pigmies.
Pathaway believed he now understood what
the chief meant when he spoke of the birds
building theirinests high up arnong the roks.
'Twas a good idee," quoth Nick. "The
Shoshone is wise. Bear up a few minutes lon-
ger, little 'in, and we'll be at the end of our
tramp. It's hard climbin', but we'll soon con-.
quer it."     1
Pausing occasionally for the parties to
breathe, Multnomah ,ascended obliquely the
mountain-side to a point half way to the sum-
mit, and nearly opposite the Devil's Gate. At
that spot the towers, walls, and columns of the
mimic city were most conspicuous, rising like
gigantic works of art fallen to ruins.
" Doubledark, here we rest. A band of
warriors might hide here. Our enemies are
like dogs thrown from the scent of game by
running water," said Multnomah.
" All that's true enough, Ingin ; but we shall
have to eat and drink the same as other folks
in the course o' natur', and game can't be very
abundant hereabout."
" Doubledark is a hunter ; he knows the
path of the mountain-sheep, and .the trail
where 9e deermand the buffalo go down to the
streams to drink, He is not a squaw to sit
down and'starve. "
" True, Shoshons! Doubledark, nor them
that is with him will never starve while there's
a hoof or a feather of game in the Nor'West."
Pathaway examined with considerable curi-
osity the retreat in which he now found him-
self. He was particularly impressed with the
vas monuments around him. He had seldom
contemplated Nature in a wilder and grander
mood. He had some difficulty in persuading
himself that he-was not treading the ruins of
an ancient city. But there were no marks of
the chisel upon the broad surfaces of column
and shaft; the walls were hewn by Nature-
uptorn from the quarry beneath by a mighty
strength.
Multnomah had chosen for a place of con-

cealment a rocky chamber at the base of one
of the most imposing of the mimic castles.
Nick and Portneuf covered the rough floor
with a carpet of wild sage and such foliage as
they could find' growing where there was suffi-
cient soil for vegetation. The blankets of the
parties were spread over this, furnishing a
couch by no means to be despised by wearied
and hunted fugitives. It is true that the iron
frame of Nick had suffered little or no dimi-
nution of strength ; but Sebastian and the In-
dian youth were so'much exhausted, that evi-
dently they could have proceeded no farther.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
SEX    AND   SEBASTIAN.
Nick Whiffles attended carefully to the
wounded arm, and when the -lad was as com-
fortably placed as his meagre means would al-
low, he seemed greatly relieved, and much of
his anxiety vanished.
" He needs sleep and rest arter his exer-
tions," he remarked to Pathaway, as they is-
sued together from the stony. portals of their
hiding-place. "It's somethin' peculiar to the
lad that he likes to be by hisself when any-
thing ails him."  Then to Multnomah :
"Chief, is there any water hereabouts ?
The boy must be powerful thirsty by this
time."
The Shoshone made an affirmative move-
Inent of the head, and went to procure the el-
ement in question.
em"There's subject upon which I wish to
talk with you," said Pathaway, drawing Nick
aside.   y
"Well, colonel, I'm willin' tohear an man's
talk when it's reasonable. Let's set down in
the shade o' this wall, for I'pose it's a subjeck
that can be spoke on settin' as well as stanmn'."
"It is a, matter that I scarcely know how to
approach," Pathaway added, with some em-
barrassmenit.
"Can't imaginee what 'tis, rejoined Nick,
with a little start. "Never had no secrets in
my life; and not in my life, neither, but none
worth mentionin', lately. Some o' my family.
had secrets ; an a tto' mine was full of 'em.
Mysterious ;okin  ritter, she was. Was al-
les shaking' her head inamighty knowin' way,
and puttin' her finger t" her lips.. She gcit to
be so full o' information that it perduced com-
bustion o' the brain, at last."       '
"I have observed," continued Pathaway,
"your treatment of yo    nelaunay-     '
" Treatment 1" exelaime  Nick ; 1"ha'n't I
aller treated him well)?  Could I treated him
better if he'd been my own brother ?"
"You could not, ndeed; -and it was that
very fYct, combined with the peculiar deicaev
i f the boy, that first aroused my suspicions.'
f The trapper's face flushed; and either an-
ger or confusion, or a blending of both, strug-
gled within him.
" S'pioion," he said, slowly, "is a word I

C

PATHAWAY; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                            95
don't like to hear; for, if I understan' the you may draw a line each side o' that boy
defermatibn of the word, it means a sort of close to him, and he won't niggle enou e ither
mistrust that all isn't right-or, in other way to teteh. As for the matter o' hands
words, is a kind o' low cunnin' about some- and feet, I don't 'member that I've seed big-
thin that should be open and above-board. ger ones on an lad of his age and size. Re-
Your talk don't begin well, colonel, and I collect, Colonel, I said age and size."
think-we'd better let the subjeek drop; though  " I admire your fidelity to your interesting
I'll be condemned if I know what- the subjeck protegs, but tell you plainly that the question
is settled beyond doubt in my own. mind.
"I mean no offence in the world !" answer- Even Indian Joe detectedmthe ilposture at
ed Pathaway, earnestly. "But I wish simply  once."
to say, that your tenderness of the youth; ' " Ingin Joe 'll git his ears cut off if he isn't
your constant regard for his welfare ; your keerful !" returned the trapper, tartly.
affection for him displayed in innumerable  Pathaway waited for Nick to- cool again.
ways; your ready and sometimes incongruous "It's sometimes pesky hard," he added,
apologies for his weaknesses-together with  anon, persuasively, "to tell a boy from adga
the singular beauty of his face and form, 'the I knowed a p'ison diffikilty that growed ou of
smallness of hishands and feet-have given sich a ease : 'twas an offsp'ing of Dr. Whiffles
rise to the suspicion that the object of your was the subjeck of it. Fust, they tried petti-
solicitude is not a boy, but a woman."    coats ; then, trowsers; then, fiy, fell back
Nick's embarrassment was too evident to be on petticoats ag'in."
unnoticed-and with it, too, was mingled much  "Believe me, my friend, I am deepl in-
that was painful. Pathaway waited for him  terested in the youth you call Sebastian;  d
to recover from the effects of his announce- I have no doubt but you are goveirined by the
ment.                                     best of motives. Rest assured that I shall do
"He's asgood a boy," said Nick, doggedly, nothing to disoblige you, but everything in
"as ever walked. You can see he's a boy, my power for her protection'and comfort.
plain 'nough, by his clothes ; for any fool Whether she had any part in the tragedy of
knows that a boy wears boy's clothes, and a al Blahk Rock, I know not, nor shall I ask I
ivers als coths.They're made different, seek no disclosures from you. I did not think
boy's and gal's clothes be. It's jest the diff'r- it right longer todeceive you in regard to my
enee atween gowns and trowsers.  Now, do  convictions.' Woman  ever has and ever will
you s'pose if that boy had been of t'other sex, have paramount claims upon my respect and
hat I' put masculine toggery on him? Oh the protection of my arm."
Lord, no ! I'd as soon 'a' thought o' pettin'   You mean well, Colonel, and I thank ye;
a grizzly bear in a monkey-skin, or jest and you argue so well, that I should doubt
contrawise - which would be a monkey in a the gender myself if I hadn't made up my
.bear-skin. What do you s'pose a feminine mind. But I can't quite give in; IPre sai
could do straddlin' about' mong the rocks in boy, and boy it shall be. When my grandfather
browsers ? 'Twould be as ludiekerous as 'twould writ 'a thing when he's travelin', he never
be for me to put on petticoats, and give myself . altered it and writ it over, if it turned out to
the dainty airs of a city miss. Begin to see be never so big a lie arterwards; and he gin-
how rydicerlous tis, don't ye ? Never felt er'ly put a note in the margin under sich
more like laughin' nor I do now, IF swear to  places to lrp em.  Bt ofu' tebo'
gracious !"                               consarned, there's no weak places to prop up
Nick tried to laugh his old whimsical Once when he's travelin'--my gran'f ther-..
laugh, but the effort was a miserable fail- in Hindustan, in his hoss and shay (about
,rd.        o- which hoss and shaky a song has beengrit yind
"1It won't do, friend. Nicholas-the. boy is a composed, and which I'll'sing to ,ye iwlienI
girl !" replied Pathaway, smiling.        git time), he seed a child hangia' from a tree
'"Do you, think that we Nor'westers ketch in a basket. He stopped his vehickle imme-
pals in browsers as we do beavers in traps ?,iate, arter ridin' round the tree three times to
minne natur' so abundant that wA haven't collect his fakilties and the facks, and writ
petticoats to pet it in? 'Tisn't easy for a that all the children born in Hindostan was
woman to 'pear like a boy, I tell ye. 'My old- put in baskets, and left to swing on the trees
est sister tried it, for a lark, among the young till they perished or was eat up by the birds.
fellers ; but the smallness of her waist, and A few paragrams,below he writ (he'd- driv into
the gin'ral developments of her constitution, a village then, I s'peet) that the kentry was
together with her mmcm' way o' steppin', thickly settled with a 'normously increase'
brung her out to once. Now a woman don't operation, which threatened to overs
step long, Colonel ; but that boy Sebastian '1l borders if some sickness-didn't put a stop to
span the ground beyend all account. You'd it. My gran'father took the censs of ever
oughter to see him pace-it off when he's in a kentry he driv through,'which was a work  '
hurry! Ag'in, &amp;feminine has a kind o' knit- some magnitude in some +places, 'specially
tin'-wor, swingin' motion sideways ; but where they didn't hang their children in baa-

I

'aU

*f

i


96

kets. Some races o' men he found mostly ex-
tinct. The Tartars, for instance, was reduced
to a hundred million -- which was melan-
choly."
Pathaway listened patiently for Nick to
talk himself out of breath ; but the trapper
exhibited no sign of weariness. Subject-mat-
ter appeared to stretch before him as measure-
less as the prairies he delighted in, and as va-
ried as the Northwest. While he, was mak-,
ing a longer pause than usual at a period,
the hunter arose and quietly left him, to take
a more careful survey of Trapper Valley and
the region around..it.
This conversation took place just outside
the natural chamber where Sebastian was re-
elining. Now it happened that there was a
passage between' the rocks -that.transmitted
sounds with great facility ; and thus'the youth
accidentally became a party o all that passed.
between the hunter and the trapper. He lis-
tened with vavrying emotions, 'and sought the
Shoshone at the close of the singular inter{
view. He spoke earnestly with the chief for
a few moments ; and shortly after, when Nick
looked for Multnomah, he could not be'found.
CHAPTER XIX.
A Stf OICAL OPERATION.
ileantime Indian Joe,'who appeared to be
sleeping, had ears that were quite 'as acute -as
those of the anomalous boy:Sebastian,' and
heard every word of the conversation - that
passed between Nicholas and the gray hunt-
er. He kept his secret, however, till the dark-
ness of night veiled the scenery of Mimic'
City. Leaving his concealment, he walked; in
the open air ; and seeing the trapper return-
ing (who had been out in tett of garie, and
approached with a mountain sheep -upon his
shoulders) hastened to meethim. 2  1
"Hullo ! is it-you, Little P'ison?  Got over:
your bad feelin's, eh-? queried Nicholas.:
"Joe sleep-feel better.' He somethin' to
say it the great trapper," answered the boy.
lick threw down his burden, and looked
curiously at Joe. --
"One04  ust allers have his eyes. open when
an      flatters," he replied-,-"'specially.4.
_.'   4ncer Ingin like you. But speak.out;.
'our kind of insex say, ' My ears are: open,
and Ill hear your talk of whatsomevrna.
tur'.'.
"Joe no bad Ingin ; he got heart';ie hear
the pale:ace eryin' for his daughter; he'see
tears renadown. - Joe know where she is: He
lead Doubledark to her; Doubledark take her_
away-bring her here."
Whiffles- braced his long- rifle out, before
him, leaned his tall;wiry form against it, and.
looked down upon the youth with an expres-
sion half credulous, hal doubting.
"Put a punetooation there, and wait while

I sharpen .my fakilties with a trifle o' the
weed."
The trapper drew a small package of to-
bacco from the pouch at his side, and convey-
ed it deliberately to his mouth, as if the more
slowly he performed , the operation 'the less
tardy would be his thoughts. Making a few
lazy oscillations of his.jawsover the narcotic
morsel, he said:
" There's some dispelsitions that I know
almost at a glance, and there's others that I
don't ; 'mong the last I may safely reckon
your'n ; for you're a bit o' human natur' that
staggers me. Dunn' all my -travelin' over
mountings and peraries, over rivers and lakes,
I've never struck the trail of. a heathen so puz-
zliu';in.his mentual and physikal makin' up.
There's been no good will atween is,.as you
know,' Little P'ison, and it.strikes me as bor-
derin''on the ludickerous when you come to
,me 'with sich a projeck. It does, by. light-
nin' !
Joe had waited patiently for the trapper to
gather his thoughts and make these remarks,
but did not raise his eyes to the face. of Nick,
and more than. once pressed his white teeth
upon his under lip, as if in an.effort to curb a
strong feeling.
" Joe thought Doubledark pitied the French
.pale-face ; but he was wrong; he will speak
of it no more, The great chief down in the
Valley will take the young squaw for his wife."
,Joe turned to go.
"Don't be so techy, Little P'ison, for I
ha'n't said .yes or no, yet. Want to take the
bearin's o'.the case fust. The Whiffleses isn't
gener'ly of a 'rash natur, though that disorder
went through our family when we's young.
Frn never in a hurry 'bout coming' t9 a pint
when a thing is onsartin. Let's come at it,
systeinatie, as 'twere. I understand' ye to say
thatou 'can lead me to this' kali Jest turn
the aaletrees o' your eyes on mine."
The dark-brown orbs of. thi Indian youth
rere firmly raised to Nick's. There might
halve'been a nervous quiver in them, at first,
but.it was of transient duration.
"Can't read 'em, can't read 'em !" said
Nicholas, shaking his'head. "They a'n't sick as
I've come in contact with a great 'eal. They're
both soft-and fiery, open and eunnini at the
same time, timid and fierce. - Little P'ison,
you're whatmy gran'father used to call a non-
description."
" Doubledark is afraid ! His heart grows
smaller as 'he grows older. He- is' not like
Seven   lumes, the great, chief of the Black-
foob'.nation."
"And God be praised fort l I don't keer to
be like a heathen neways,,savin'-and exceptin'
allers 'the Shoshons, who's more of a feller
bein' nor some of lighter complexions."
'" To the Shoshon Joe Will go."
At that Moment Andrew Jeanjean was heard
singing " The Trapper's Daughter." Nick's

r

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

B
'    ) _
1     j
,

r

4
I

I

;,'E


PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

feelings were touched. He saw, too, at a little
distance, Portneuf pacing to and fro with a
melancholy air.
"Young Ingin," he added, more seriously,
" I ha'n't much faith in ye, as you understan',
but compassion for the gal and for others,
moves me. I a'n't a hard man, nor never was.
Pity is no stranger to the breast of Nick Whif-
fles; he's found a place at his mentual camp-
fire more nor once, and will ag'in. I've risked
somethin' for Beauty afore now. There was
Baby Blanche, the 'dopted darter of Buck
Bison ; and there was Sylveen Vander, the
nat'ral darter of old Saul Vander, the Guide ;
two as dainty bits of womanhood as you can
find in -the world. For each of 'em I did my
best. I had little gunshot diffikilties on their
account, not to mention other diffikilties. But
Lord bless ye, Ingin, I've got. used to''em ;
shouldn't 'joy myself'thout 'em. I'll trust ye,
boy, I'll trust ye ; and if you betray me to my
inernies, you'll do a deed that you'll be sorry
for when you start for the happy hunting-
grounds. Nick Whiffles never injured you nor
yourn ; and not yourn, neither; for he's been
obleeged in self-preservation to bring down a
redskin now and then, but 'thout malice or a
forethought."
Joe's face grew brighter ; his eyes sparkled
with animation.
"It seems to .please ye," said the trapper,
musingly. " I hope it's all right, and there's
no diviltry at the bottom. I've a quick eye
and a quick hand, lad, and you won't die full-
growed if your treachery becomes apperient
afore you're ready."
"Ugh !" articulated Joe, contemptuously.
"Too much doubt makes a coward. When
a great Ingin chief do a thing, lie no say great
many words. Joe will be ready in an hour."
" It'll be dark, then," said Nick, reflectively,
casting his eyes toward the heavens. " We
shallh need darkness, I allow. We'll go alone,
Ingin. The colonel and the Frenchman may
stay to look arter the wounded lad and Jean-
jean. Poor Andrew ! I must patch up his
head afore long. The brain's a tender pint,
but I don't see why it can't be put in runnin'
order well's a watch."
Nick stopped and thought about it.
" Doubledark will be silent. His tongue no
talk 'bout goin'."'
A wave of distrust rolled across the trapper's
mind, but considering the object in view, he
generously and unselfishly shook it off.
Joe will find you behind the rocks, down
there, when it's time to go."
"I'll be there, boy," answered Nick, and
taking up his burden, hastened to join those
who were expecting his return. Selecting the
daintiest portions of the sheep, he cooked them
with the skill and care of one thoroughly versed
in such matters, and'carried them to Sebas-
tian.                             i
"Over to the left, not fur from here, in a di-

rect line, you'll find water clear' as crystal,
gushing from the rock," said Nick.
" You're going' away, Nick; I know by your
,looks," the youth answered, quickly.
"Portneuf is grievin' for his darter."
"His sorrow has touched your generous
heart, uncle Nick."
" Why shouldn't it, child ? If you's shut
up down gender, in the valley, at the marcy of
lawless men, do you think I could rest ?" re-
turned the trapper, earnestly.
"You could not; you would brave every-
thing for my sake."
"True, child,, true ! And why shouldn't I
do the same for another? She's less, much
less to me nor you be, yet it can't be denied
that she has a claim on my exertions. Hu-
manity is humanity, whether in the wilderness
or other places. the colonel is here, and if I
shouldn't come back; I couldn't leave ye in
hands tenderer or carefuller."
"-Don't talk in that strain, my friend, for
such a possibility is painful. Who goes with
you ?"
" The young Ingin--Little P'ison, I call him.
He proposed it, and I concluded to trust him."
Sebastian pmused, then looking anxiously at
Nick, replied :
"I have misgivings, my friend ; I doubt
Indian Joe. He is, in truth, a strange com-
pound of sullenness, timidity, and fire. Some-
times he looks at me with an expression'angry
and forbidding."
"I've noticed it; but it comes of the crook-
edness of Ingin natur'. He can't helpwhat's in
him, I s'pect, 'cause it's in his blood ; and
what's in one's blood, can't very yell be got
out. No two of us are alike. One takes to
the bush, another to the city ; one likes his
kind, another hates it. One takes on airs and
haughty ways, while another wears his man-
ners as he does a suit of old clothes-with ease,.
and without stiffness. I know he's a queer
redskin, this Ingin Joe Abut if thei'e's any truth
in him, I'll give it a chance to show itself."
"Let me warn you not to put too much
faith in him. You have treated him with
some severity, and-I am sure that he can have
but little real friendship, for you, and but
slight sympathy with your present purpose.
If you must undertake this perilous enterprise,
I entreat you to be guarded, and watchful of'
the boy."      I
"Sartin! The Ingins call me Doubledark,"
said Nicholas, with some pride.
"Your skill I do not doubt but who can
guard against treachery ?" said the youth.,
" Jes' so! Treachery has to do with the
heart and the motives, and we can't allern tel
what them be. Hovsomnever, we'll hope for'
the best. Here comes the colonel! Colonel,
I'm going ' to perform that operation now on
Jeanjean's head. I brought a piece o' pitch-
pine for a torch, knowin' 'twould be dark afore
I got back."

I I

99


100

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

"The operation is so delicate, that rdil1,
- iW"began-Pathaway.
Yes, colonel, I allow it looks ventur'some ;
but with steady narves I feel that I can man-
Age it. I won't hurt him.- If I can on'yraise
up them tvoplates o' the skull'"- the skull
is com posed of two plates, as you probably
understan' with your book-l'arnin'-if I can
raise 'en a trifle, I say, his wand'ring fakilties
'I come back ata gallop, across the perairies
of his present vacant  . Let's go out ahind the
ruins, and you shall e assistant surgeon; that
is, you shall hold the torch.; and tohold a
torch well requires some judgment. I'd put
it off till to-morrer, and take daylight for't
but nobody can\tell what a day'hl bring forth.
Conie here, you Andrew Jeanjean, and I'll try
to call in your wits that have gone out trap-
pin', so to speak."
Jeanjean followed the trapper and Pathaway,
and, in.obedience to the command of the for-
muer, seated himself behind a column.6f rock.
Nick lighted a large splinter of the pitch-pine
which he had procured for the purpose, and
handed it to Pathaway, who was beginning to
feel uneasy-
f Nick produced a pocket-knife, nd exam-
ined its edge.
"It's pooty sharp, I allow," he said, with a
satisfied ai; "and if wasn't', wouldn'tt make
nogreat difference, for there isn't much cut-
tin' to do, and if there was, 'twouldn't hurt
him but little, the vitality of his system is so let
down. I'd oughter been a surg'in, prehaps; but
we sometimes mistake our calliui', and go blun-
derin' through the whole business o' life. - I
knowed a man who was once full o' the missioner
spent, that arterwards become a whisky-tra-
der 'mong the Ingins. Then, ag'in, I've seen
them become doctors as was caikilated for
honest clodhoppers, and cut across niuskles ii
opening- abscesses, or destractin' bullets or
splinters lodge in the flesh ; than which coin-
mon sense oughter teach a person better.
Agin," added -Nick, laying his left hand on
Jeaujean's head, and holding the pocket-knife
aloft in the other, " it has come under my oh-
sarvatioi durin' sieh times as I've stopped in
the clearin's, that individuals get into the pul-
it that should 'a' been in the blacksmithit'
lihe; for there's some sense in thumpin' on an
anvil, but not an artom in hammerin' away at
a Wible with a fist as big as a sledge-hammer."
Nicholas approached his. instrument within
six inches of Andrewv's passive 'head, when it
became fied, and'the last idea appeared to ab-
sorb him quite.    -
"When I've seen eich fists coming down
spiteful on .the Word,,o' God," I've- thought to
myself that, the same, force- might 'a'. driven
-a spade into the sile, ondmade it ready for a
pertater -;or a grain o' corn to grow. It's a
q user queer world -
Nicholas stopped, then sai':
"Hold still, Jeanjeau I If you stir so much

as the thickness of a hair, you sba'n't sing the
'Trapper's Darter' no more. Remember,
Nanny, don't ye, Andrew u"
" Ml jolie Ninons " muttered Jeanjean.
" Jes' so !" quoth Nicholas, carefully ,separ-
ating 'the half-granulated lips of the wound,
and examining it with scrupulous  nicety.
"The fact is, Andrew, they've jest about-nade
an idiot of ye, which is nigh the muchness of
a fool; aia fools, my lad, a'n't of no great
vally in this world. You'd better go under,
and done with it, than be a fool. You can t
have Nanny, if you're a fool. So don't wince !"
The unfortunate Jeanjean turned his eves
upon Nick with singular earnestness. The.
light of the torch glowed. upon his face, inm-
parting to itS gravity and fixedness a strahige
intensity.
The 'hand that held the pocket-knife wCnt
steadily dowl, and the point of the instrument
rested in.the fracture.
Prtiaswythought:1"-ow many times those
unshaing wyingeh have pulled' the deadly
trigger.
A slight moan from Jeanjean told that he
suffered.     -
" Youxma-i-groan,Andrew : but if you stir,
good-bye to-unny !"-
Nick wotited quietly, taking out two or
three splintbis of-one, pausing once, only to
say : " Whatever comes o' this, colonel, say nio-
thin' about it that can reach the p'ison news-
papers.Hold-the torch a little cluster."
pathiawa  now thoroughly interested in the
operation, Ieheld Nick's skillful surgery with
surprise, ie raised the depressed .hone ; a
portion of the brain exuded which Nick de-
tached.
"'Twill do no harm," he muttered. "Knowed
a traper to lose an ounce 'thout hurtin' him.
There, lad, I allow I've done ye good."
" Ils expression changes !,' exlaimed Path-
na  ,
any trifle, a trifle ; but it'll be more aipperi-
ent by-and-by. He must sleep, and if I a'n't
mistaken, he'll wake with his sense about him.
If he's keerful, and meets with no drawback,
the bone will soon knit; I allow."
" I confess I trembled when you began ; but
my faith is now strong in your success. You
have a wonderful hand at everything," said
Pathawvay, apologetically.
"PThere was a nat'rah bone-setter in our fami-
ly, who used to pull all his bones out o' j'int
jest to show  what he could do, and whip
.'emi in ag'in in a minute. At last, hiowsoin-'
never, unfortinitly, le carried his experiments
Stoo fur ;for unj'intin' his neck, one day, he
wasn't able to set it ag'i. Lead Andrew in,
Colonel, and wake him, arter lie's slept two or
d three hours. I've got business with Ingin Joe ;
k so good-night."
Nick} repeated his " Good-night" earnest-
ly, then hastened to the rocks where he was to
meet the young Indian.

I.

PATHAWAY ; OR, TIHE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

S-
.
t

101

CHAPTER XXX.
MADE.
Pathaway disposed of Jeanjean in. the ma
ner indicated by Nick, remaining-near him ti
he had fallen into abheavy sleep. lie the
looked for Sebastian, but could not find Lin
Alarmed by his disappearance, he question
Portneuf, from whom he derived no inform
tion. le commenced a diligent search among
the ruins, but without success. .Believing:
possible that he had followed Nick, he d
scented toward Trapper Valley. so far as h
thought compatible with safety; not his ow
but that of the party He retraced his step
much perplexed, and was discussing the sub
Ject with Portneuf, when the Shoshons ap
feared. The chief was not alone ; a young
Indian girl walked beside him, whose advane
Patlaway beheld with increasing curiosity
She was clad after the manner of her people
but her garments were of stuffs richer anc
finer than are usually obtained by the natives
She drew near slowly, and with averted eyes.
"Where is Sebastian ?" asked Pathaway
turning from a brief scrutiny of this new.an(
interesting addition to the party, to the Sho
shone.
Ask me where is last night's dew or yes-
terday's rain," answered Multnomah.
Pathaway stirred the brands of the not yet
extinguished fire, causing them to emit a fitful
flame, which threw a glare upon the girl's face.
The features were classically reular, and, de-
spite their tawhy tinge, han some; and not
only beautiful, but familiar.
"Sebastian !" exclaimed the young man.
"But Sebastian no more," answered the
girl, blushing. "I trust, sir-I hope that you
will not misconstrue-" she stammered.
"No apologies, I beg I I will misconstrue
nothing.  Your conduct shall be leniently
judged by me," replied Pathaway, not without
embarrassment.
The chief walked away, and left them to-
gether.
"Come nearer the light," added Pathaway.
The girl obeyed, with a smile and a blush.
Is this indeed Indian blood that colors
your hands and your cheeks ?" he asked, ner-
vously taking one of her hands.
"Madge, the half-breed girl, is of the same
parentage as the boy Sebastian. What else
could you expect, sir?"'
"God only knows !" exclaimed Pathaway,
dropping her hand, with a disappointment so
evident that it could not be concealed.
I think Nicholas informed you that my
mother wasa French woman, and my father
of, mixed blood ?"'
"Confound, the mixed blood !" muttered.
Pathaway.
.Itappears to be very much, confounded,"
sai"dLMadge,overhearing the remark.
Let me assure you," said Pathaway, "that
I'FE
1  .

I have not been so blind as you may have 1m.
agined, in regard to your sex."
"N Nor Insoeblind in regard to your suspi.
,n- cions. I noted] their commencement, and have
ill watched their development from time to time.
en You know not what I have suffered ; such
ii. shame, such epibarrassment,sueh humiliation !
d I return to the proper garb of my sex with in.
a- describable relief."
Ig   " Has not my deportment been considerate
it and gentle ? 'EIave I not, at .least of late
e- treated you-with markedJ respect ?" interro-
e gated Pathaway, with-a slight tinge of remorse.
n, "I do-not complain. If at first a smile of
s, contempt appeared upon your lips, it after.
- ward gave place to compassion. But we had
best not recall those matters to-night."
g    "I have curiosity as well as woman," said
e Pathaway, pleasantly ; "I am anxious to hear
. your history."
;'He looked earnestly at the beautiful face of
d  Madge.
. " Histories," she replied, " do not read well
till we are dead. Nick Whiffles is my histo-
r, ian. Honest Nick! I fear he will be be-
d trayed by that Indian boy. Tell me, Mr.
- Pathway, do you think we are safe ? Will
not the mountain outlaws and their savage
allies discover our hiding-place ? Ought this
fire to blaze here 2"
I " We are so shut up by rocky columns and-
l walls, that I apprehend little danger of discov--
ery," replied Pathaway, reflectively. " And
yet," he resumed, " I cannot conceal from you
that our enemies are cunning, nor deny the
fact that the pursuit will be long and skillful-
ly conducted. But since you are with us,
your sex will and shall stimulate us to the
greatest efforts for your protection. I will
not, I cannot forget that wound which you
bear for me. Believe me, my gratitude is
genuine and deep. You have suffered, and
suffered patiently ; you have borne the pain
of your wound and the hardships of our flight
without murmuring. Your heroism and fortis
tude call forth my warmest admiration. -Ien-
treat of you'to give me a place among those
you call friends. Honor me with but-half the
confidence you bestow upon Nicholas, the
trapper,- and I shall indeed esteem:myself
happy !"-
Pathaway spoke with fervor; a glow of en-
thusiasm suffused his face. The girl Madge
changed color, manifesting that soft confusion
that woman feels when secretly pleased; but
whom pride-and maidenly reserve admonish
to conceal th$ 'emotion.
" FriendsI 'rust we shall ever be," she an-
swered; 'obut Nieholas--ah, I -have known -
Nicholas a long wti  1"
It would have been difficult to explain why,
but this, remark -"gave the- gray hunter pain.
He envied Nick tile confidence of the singular-
being beside hiin.:. He felt annoyed that -he
could not fill-the i'ace place in her thoughts,

1


10i

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

and have the same right to care for and pro-
tect her. While these emotions were upon
hiin, the Shoshone hastily came up, extin-
guished the'fire and scattered the brands.
" Is there danger?" asked Pathaway, quick-
"Danger," responded the chief, "is never
distant. The pale-faces and the red walk
much to-night. The ear of the Shoshone has
been to the ground, and heard the sound of
feet far up the side of the mountain."  1
"Are your ears, then, so acute ? I have
heard nothing."
" The hunter has heard too much," returned
Multnomah, looking at Madge.   "He has
heard the notes of the singing-bird, and he
loves to listen."
" What is it, Shoshon-? Which way lies the
danger ?"
"-It is there," said the chief, pointing to the
north-west. " The white trappers are going
down to the valley, perhaps, and will cross
our trail on the way."
" It will be fortunate for us if Seven-Plumes
is not' with them, for his eyes are quick to find
a trail."
Multnomah made a gesture for Madge to
screen herself behind a column, which she did,
and the chief moved off and was soon out of
sig it, Pathaway was in the act of turning to
address her, when a slight noise, like that pro-
duced by cocking a pistol, esused him to
pause and look suspiciously into the darkness.
A sharp report quickly followed. Pathaway
stag ered, but did not fall.
"You are uninjured. - Thank God !" ex-
claimed Madge.
"Yes," replied the hunter, "I believe I am
unhurt."
He pointed to a perforation in his frock.:,
" It passed through your garments ; but,"
she-.added,,turning pale with alarm, " where
is the bullet? I did not hear it strike the
rock behind you I"
-athaway unbuttoned his frock, and with a
smile, drew from beneath it a package. He-
held up before her a mass of dark hair, from
which a bullet dropped.
"Curls have often proved fatal," he said,.
"to ,men's hearts ; but these, as you see, have
saved mine.'
For a moment, Madge was too much agitat-
ed to speak; she contemplated the raven
tresses with clasped hands and parted lips.
" Tell me,k' she cried, when she could com-
mand her voice-then suddenly checked her-
self, and stood silently gazing at Pathaway.
"4Be calm; that danger,.at least, is passed.
I can say that I have been saved by a woman's
tresses."
"You are not sheltered; another shot may
prove more.hurtful. Step behind a column ;
it will shield you from the unseen marksman,"
she saki,.with-beseeehing look.
"fA2t. oniy saved by a woman's curls, but

by a woman's arms," added the hunter,
thoughtfully ; " and that arm," he continued,
" yours. But I lose time in idle talk when I
should be looking for the foe. Hasten to our
covert, Madge, in the mimic castle, and I'll
soon bring you word how matters stand."
Pathaway glanced toward the suspicious
quarter with hawk-like intensity-then, stoop-
ing and grasping his rifle firmly, stole noise-
lessly from the spot.
CHAPTER XXXI.
THE RESTORATION-THE MIDNIGHT STRIFE.
Madge entered the rocky. cavern, for in
truth it was little else.  The moonlight
crept dimly in through the gaping crevices.
Andrew Jeanjean was sleeping. She stood be-
side him, listening anxiously to every sound
without. His features, imperfectly revealed by
the faint nocturnal beams, were paler than
they were wont; but she noticed that they
changed occasionally, responsive, doubtless, to
his varying dreams.    Every moment was
fraught with suspense, and the time to' Madge
was dismally long.
She missed Nick, whose voice had become
so faniiliar, and was ever so full of friendliness.
During the last few hours there had been as
great a change in her feelings as in her garb.
She was no longer Sebastian Delaunay, obliged
to act an unnatural character, and one entirely
opposed to her innate delicacy. There had
been a constant struggle in her bosom, which
increased in a tenfold degree after meeting the
gray hunter. - To Nick she had grown accus-
tomed ; for he, being in her secret, the need of
constant effort and watchfulness was less ur-
gent. . It was after her acquaintance with
Pathaway had begun, that the embarrassment
of her false position became really painful.
Every moment she had feared discovery, and
many times was in doubt whether he had not
already divined the secret of her sex. All
this was past-except the maidenly shame of
its recollection. She had returned to the garb
worn by her sex, and though differing from
that of her civilized sisters, it was well adapted
'to life in the wilderness.
It was an inexpressible relief not to feel
compelled to simulate masculine manners.
Had danger been more distant, her feelings of
relief would have been more marked and conm-
plete ; but anxiety for her friends and defend-
ers marred the pleasure of the metamorphosis.
She expected to hear every instant the stealthy
tread of Indians, or those whose presence she
dreaded as much.
A sing lrifle-shot rang through the rocks.
Andrew J anjean started up, yawned. opened
his drowsy eyes, stared at Madge, then glanced
wonderingly around him. The young woman
.observed him in silence, awaiting with interest
the result of Nick's surgery.
" Who are you ?" he asked, slowly. "Where'
-where am    I?  Ah 1 I must have fallen

'I

i
l
i

Igg

asleep on the way! I have had a long walk
but I don't remember lying down. Where are
my peltries, I wonder ?"
W hat is the last thing you remember ?"
Made asked.
With a bewildered air, Andrew arose, and
looked at the interrogator, who repeated her
question.
"The last thing I remember?" reiterated
Jeanjean, reflectively. "I recollect starting
from the trapping-grounds, and having my
~horse stolen as I camped at night. Let me
see--then I threw my peltries across my shoul-
ders, and, camie as far as here; that is, I
reached a gulch or canon, which must be in
this vicinity. Then-then"-Andrew put his
hand to his brow-" then-everything seems
to leave off abruptly. I have had darkness
and confused dreams."
"Have you no consciousness ofa shock, a
sudden pain, the report of a gun, a fall ?"
asked Madge.
" All is blank !" replied Andrew, hopelessly.
"To be brief, you were behet by ruffians,
robbed, and left for dead, and owe your pre-
servation to a brave man who witnessed the
outrage."
"How long ago was that ?" inquired Jean-
jean.
" More than a week," answered Madge.
" It seems scarcely possible," said Jeanjean.
" Your wound was of the head," continued
Madge. " But this is no time for details. We
are in danger - pursued by enemies upon
whose ears the cries of mercy are lost."
. I cannot realize this !" exclaimed Andrew,
,with emphasis. "How can one lose a week_
of life, yet awake to the conscious world strong,
and to all appearance healthy "
Jeanjean passed his hand dubiously over his
head, wincing when he touched the wound.
"All this is possible,".he added,-" though
to me most dreamlike and improbable. I have
had a concussion of the brain-a fracture of
the skull, or an injury of that ,nature, doubt-
less.
The French voyageur joined them.
" Where is Pathaway ? Where is the Sho-
shone ?" he asked, hastily. "We will be be-
set by enemies, and we ,s'all be killed if we
don't fight ver' much."
Andrew heard the sound of his voice, and
remembered the father of Ninon.       .
"Portneuf I" he cried, seizing his hand.
" What is this I s'all hear ? His senses is
come back. This is astonish! This onegrand
surprise -"
" I am very faint-I am dizzy ! In a mo-
ment I shall be calm. There--there-I am
quite restored. Tell me of Ninon ?"
He looked earnestly at the voyageur.
"Ma jolie Ninon 2" exclaimed.Portneuf, sor-
rowfully.
" What has happened to Ninon ?"
"Be discreet'!" whispered Madge.

" Mon Dieu! , I will not tell yOU what s'all
aIppen to her. They take her away-the
what you calls him--robbers."
" Robbers ? Ninon ?" said Andrew,'with a
start.
"You are imprudent! I fear the shock of
this-announcement will prove too much for his
newly-restored reason," said Madge,, in a low
voice, to the voyageur.
" My heart so full, so ver' full !" answered
Portneuf, wringing his hands.
"We have reason to sutppose," added Madge,
" that Ninon is at Trapper Valley, whither she
has been carried by some lawless free trappere.
" The mountain outlaws.I" exclaimed'Jean-
jean, with strong emotion. " You tell ne,
girl," he continued, fixing his eyes upon
Madge, "that Ninon is in the bands of rob-
bers and assassins, and expect me to hear yo;
with calmness. Where are nay arms? let
me fly to her rescu.!"
" Listen, Jeanjean ! We are at this moment
exposed to deadly peril. Pathaway and, the-
Shoshone are seeking our, foes alone, and in
the darkness ; while the old trapper, sick
Whiffles, whose name-you may have heard, is
making a hazardous attempt to save Ninon,"
said Madge, hurriedly.
-" Then my duty is heret" responded Andrew,
restraining his feelings. "give me a weapon,
Portneuf."
"Nicholas has kept your armse carefully;
they lie there by the rocks," said Madge.
"I trust my wound has not deprived ne of
strength and cunning," responded Andrew-
and seizing his weapons,'and admonishing the
girl to remain, rushed forth with the voya-
geur. Madge felt it impossible to stay there
quietly. Taking the bow and quiver of ar-
rows which had been her com'panions for
many months, she left her covert, and soon
stood on the spot where she had parted from
the gray hunter. No one was in sight. Mi sio
City stretched out around her, toward revery
point of compass, like a scene of enchant.
meant. It was a grim and frowning solitude
that might be broken at any moment by the
gliding footsteps or piercing yells of savage
foemen. Shaft, column, and wall might'eon.
ceal miscreants, from whom she shrankwith
indescribable dread. She glanced timidly this
way and that, then advanced with'noiseless
steps toward the point where Pathaway had
disappeared. She heard sounds toward the
Valley, which grew more distinct as she pro-
ceeded. Springing upon a tottering wall, she
gazed down the. mountain-side and saw, by.
the aid of the 'moonlights two :persons strug.
gling together on a platform of rock hanging
over a precipice of a 'hundred 'feet. IZl-il-
stinets assured hed that one was Pati way.
She sprang toward the combatants like a a-
mois, not stopping to'ask what assistance
should render or what danger i ein'red.
She was soon near enough to ?ereeive tt

PATHAWAY; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.


1%4             PATIiAWAY; OR, THE        MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.
thd tiiiia *as engaged in a hand-to-hand en- tones of the young Indian, but without doubt-
eiliitti# Witlmurn Indian of extraordinary pro- ing his good faith, followed on, momentarily
rtions. whose strength and litheness seemed  expecting to greet the familiar face of the
i * i  iig With his size. Terror paralyzed trapper. She passed the spot where they had
her person when she discovered that each was camped.
eQil&amp;fring to throw the other from the ledge  The report of firearms and the shouts of
ibto 9 thebyss.  The bow nearly dropped  combatants rang in her ears, filling her with
fiofi hei hand, while her respiration grew  painful apprehensions for the safety of Tier
thick and gasping. Her lips were parted and friends.  She pictured to herself the gray
p A16, the upper portion of her body thrown hunter exhausted by his recent fearful trial,
forward, her whole person statue-like and in- engaged with fresh enemies, sorely pressed,
teiit. Aid she could not render, had fortitude and in need of succor. "If Nick were there,"
and presence of mind permitted ; for the evo- she murmured.  "Hasten, Joe; the brave
Intios of the combatants were $a rapid, that trapper is needed. His voice and his arm
a blow aimed at one might have taken effect would work wonders."
upot" the other.                             Soon find him. He go back quick. Great
u Te ovgeconcentrated his powers for a Medicine is Doubledark !" responded Joe,
final effort. She saw the convulsive quivgr- quickening his -pace and winding among the
it of his muscles while his form was quiescent rocks as if familiar with the way. He struck
tiaZ instant in the act. He drew the hunter into a familiar path, Madge continuing to
along in his grasp; both trembled on the urge him on. Thanoise of fighting men grew
vers of the dizzy height.                 fainter and fainter, and Madge became con-
MAl   moaned in her horror of the dreaded scious that she had been guided a long dis-
ehtaatiophe. This feeble expression of terror tance,'while a distrust of Joe began to give
reached the ears of Pathaway, and in that her uneasiness. For a short time she did not
ferful pause on the brink he caught sight of speak her doubts, but by-and-by the convie-
the dhi t fliire of Madge. New energy tion became so strong that she. stopped-.
braced is nerves ; he felt a sudden access of  "Joe," she said, "you are deceiving me !
stiefith in his muscles.  Disengaging his Nick Whiffles would not remain so distant
right hand fith a force that would have torn when his presence is so much required yon-
it from his shoulder else, he grasped his agile der. The first report of firearms-would have
antagonist by the throat, closing his fingers aroused him and given the speed of a buffalo-
with the rigor of steel. A moment he. held to his limbs."
him palpitating and writhing, while portions  " Come on, woman !" returned Joe, in tones
of the persons of both hung over the chasm ; so singularly enunciated, that the fears of
then the great limbs of the Indian quivered Madge were more excited. " Don't stay to
and lost their terrible power. - Pathaway re- talk."  Madge noticed a marked deviation in
covered himself, lifted his swarthy foe, and the boy's usual style of address.
hurled him down the abyss. The victor sank  " I'll go no farther I" she answered, with
panting upon the rock.                    firmness.
Madge fell on her knees in a gratitude that  " Most there.  Joe no deceive ; tongue
whs.'voeeless and deep. She was in this atti- straight," replied Joe, returning to his old
tude *hen Captain Dick and the chief, Seven- manner.
Phuimcs, appeared a few yards up the moun-  "I will- return," said Madge, resolutely.
tin, running toward the spot where the hun- She-had taken but a few steps backward, when
tei. Ws lying. A warning cry from her lips Joe caught her by the wrist, saying impera-
ch'ied him to spring to his feet. She then tively :
heerd the whoop of the Shoshone, and saw    "-you shall not ! - Joe says go, and you
ulitnonah leaping like a deer to meet the go !"
6-uomrs. While bewildered with the ra-     " Oh, you've grown authoritative,! But I
pity if these developments, some one touch- will not tamely submit to your whims."
Ster,'and turning her head, she beheld In-  She attempted to shake him off, but he
dhlh Joe.                                 clung to her like a young wildcat.
"No    ' here ; go with Joe. Much blood  "Treacherous boy !" she cried. " Is it thus,
he:; ,e*re squaw no like blood," he said. - that you reward my kindness ?"
let thkier by the hand, and she mechani-   "Reward ? Who talks of reward ? Your
eally lhowed him to lead her away. As she reward is not yet !" exclaimed Joe, in the best
we 4h6 saW other figures moving to and fro, of English.
aM lmeand tin elsh of steel.              Madge recoiled,
1 Where is uncle Nick ?" she asked, pre-  "What do I hear?" she demanded. "What
etly, topping.                            transformation is this ?  Impostor ! traitor !"
'Joe did not at once answer.               " To you, woman, I ari both," retorted the
"'White trapper up yonder," he replied youth, with vehemence..
ge      He wits for the bog-woman."          "What injury can I have done you ?" in-
S  dgiethought there *as bitterness in the terrogatedMadge,agitated bysurprise andfear.

*

.*N.

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

"The greatest injury that one woman can
do another !" cried the other, passionately.
" Woman ?" repeated Madge, with increas-
ing amazement.
"Silly creature, not to have discovered it
before ! Was iny disguise, then, so perfect?
Was my character so closely simulated? Was
Indian 'Joe so much a boy ? Girl, girl, I am
Carldta !"
The white lips of.Madge grew whiter; she
put out one small hand as if to thrust back
something unspeakably shocking,.while with
the other she covered her eyes.
"Traitress !" she murmured.  "So blind-
ed, so deceived, so lost ! What is my crime ?"
"My heart was never touched-I never loved
till I saw hin!' And you-you presumed to
love him !" she answered, with indescribable
bitterness. "I penetrated your disguise," she
went on. " I saw you start and change color
when I guided him to the trapper's camp.
You would have cast yourself into his arms,
had you dared-the man whose life I saved--.
whose existence was forfeit to the lawful lords
of the mountains. What a pang, what a sting-
ing, painful pang of jealousy shot through ne
then ! I could have slain you, woman, with
my own.hand !"
" You have deceived yourself," returned
Madge, in a fainting voice.
"'Tis false ! I have watched you every mo-
ment when he was present. Don't deny what
h you know is true, but from this hour dismiss
him from your thoughts. I have. you - I
hold you safe. This hand"-she held up a
very small hand-" can crush you. It can con-
sign you to a fate more terrible than death."
Carl6ta spoke with angry and vindictive en-
ergy. Madge felt how fearful is a jealous wo-
man !
" What would you have ?" she asked.
"What would I have ?" she repeated, fierce-
ly. "I would have you beyond his sight and
hearing forever !"
"It is my death that you desire. Be mer-
ciful-"
"Are your senses so disturbed thatyou can
think of softening me ?" retorted Carlota, with
scathing earnestness.
" I was about to ask the mercy of death
without dishonor," answered Madge, with dig-
nity. "If you indeed consider me so much
your enemy, so fatally in your way, that knife
in your .belt thrust into my bosom, which I
here offer, will remove me from your path, and
secure that silence which is eternal."-
Madge parted the fold of her dress, and pre-
sented a bosom spotlessly white.
Carl6ta did not touch the weapon at her side,
but partly drew a small dagger from her breast,
upon the silver handle of which her fingers
trembled convulsively. Her color changed
rapidly, alternating from crimson to white.
There was a painful conflict within.
" Let no false emotion of pity prevent you

105

from striking," said Madge, earnestly., "If
you knew the horror I have of yonder Valley
and tle ibiscreants that infest it, I am sure
you would .mercifully put an end to my sus-
pense."
Carl6ta slowly replaced the dagger, pressed
her hands upon her heart and her face, then
leaned against a rock, trembling in every limb.
While both stood mute and agitated 'with va-
rying emotions, Dick Iendricks appeared in
the mountain-path to fill up the picture.
CHAPTER XXXII.
THE EsCAPE-THE CAvERN.
The dogs had disappeared about an hour
after the departure of Nick, nor had Madge
seen them  since. She now thought of tie
faithful creatures, and wished they were near
to save her. She looked furtively around in
the hope of seeing them, and would have called
them, had she been able to control her voice,
Hendricks stared a moment at her, and Car-
16ta then sat down upon a stone like.one ex-
hausted. Carl6ta perceived that blood was
flowing from the sleeve of his hunting-shirt,.
and hastened to his side.
" You are hurt !" sh9 exclaimed.
" Not much, but faint from loss of blood,"
replied Hendricks.
Carldta began to search for the wound; and
while she was bending over him, Madge con-
ceived the idea of escape. The thought no
sooner crossed her mind than she put it in
practice. As Hendricks and Carlota were
above her, cutting off her return,.she sprang
down a little path toward the Valley -with ex-.
traordinary swiftness. She did ,not turn to see
if she were pursued, but flew onward with feet
that scarcely touched the ground. Several,
times she thought she heard the.voice/of Car-
ldta and the sound of pursuit; but this incited.
her to greater exertion. In the perturbation
of flight, she did not remember that she was.
descending to Trapper Valley, nor did- that
truth force itself upon her till she saw the dis-
mal portals of  Devil's Gate. The unwelcome
sight caused her to pause. The dark mouth of
the tunnel, the towering columns of basalt, the
jagged rocks, the weird effect of the darkness
upon all, conspired to fill her with terror.
But it. was no time for hesitation or delay.
She began to reason and think connectedly.
Shuddering, she hurried past the gloomy en-
trance to the Valley, and commenced the as-
cent on the opposite side, which was far less
steep and more accessible. The hope of es-
cape was now really strong in the breast of
Madge. In the outset, the effort was but n
wild experiment, with scarcely probabilities
enoughto give it the prestige of success. She
beheld the space rapidly widening between her
and the Valley with feelings of expectation
that cannot well be imagined. - Her frame was
too delicate, however, to endure long this vio-
lent exercise. By the time she reached the


100        PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS

summit of the ascent, her speed was much
abated, and her panting respiration and trem-
bling limbs warned her that her physical pow-
ers had been severely taxed, and called imper-
atively for rest. She sank upon a grassy knoll,
and listening for the sound of pursuing feet,
heard the tumultuous beatings of her own
heart. Again and again she held her breath,
and turned her ear to the Valley, to be as often
startled by imaginary alarms and chance in-
terruptions of the prevailing silence.
She dared not remain long inactive ; but
taking, as near as she could judge, th-e direc-
tion of Nick's hut, went forward with more
calmness, though with less speed. She thought
not of-wild beasts, or of the loneliness, and sol-
itude, and darkness, but of Carl6ta, Hendricks,
and the dreaded Valley. 'Tis true that she
had fears for Nick, and regretted that she had
not had sufficient presence of mind to ask
Carldta concerning him. That she had be-
trayed him, she had no doubt. This reflec-
tion was fraught with pain, which even her
own forlorn condition could not banish nor
swallow- up in its greater misery. She saw
landmarks that were familiar, and a little before
morning reached Niek's deserted camp. She
tottered in, and completely exhausted, was
glad to cast herself upon its couch of ever-
greens.
The sun had performed part of his diurnal
journey when she awoke. How familiar the
spot looked ! How many memories it re-
called-some pleasant, others quite the re-
verse ! Here she had been the boy.Sebastian
Delaunay, acting a partrepugnant to her na-
ture. She recalled numberless trifling inci-
dents of her short sojourn at the camp. It
was near it that she had received the wound
aimed- at Pathaway, and which, in the excite-
ment of the last few hours, had been entirely
forgotten by her ; but the arm, now swollen
and inflamed by violent exercise, reminded
her of the injury.
What was she now to do?    Could she be
long safe there ?  Would not Carl6ta's ven-
geance pursue her-? If she fled, which way
should she fly ? These and a thousand other
queries pressed upon her at once. Deter-
mined to act like. a reasonable being, and to
employ every rational means of preservation,
she refreshed herself with food that had'been
left there at the time of 'their flight. Having
thus, as in duty bound, attended to the wants
of nature, she resolved to seek a more secure
retreat, and trust her final rescue to her
friends and Providence. She recollected that
in one of her rambles she had discovered a
small cave, the entrance to which was nearly-
concealed by bushes, and immediately went to
search for it. Having found it, she conveyed
to it such useful articles as had been left at"
the camp-among which were her own scarlet
blanket, a hatchet, a carbine, ammunition, and
several other articles,.all of which had been

hidden under some boughs. The food, con-
sisting of dried buffalo tongues and slices of
the meat prepared in a similai- manner, she
also carefully conveyed to her hiding-place.
The cave was situated in a wood, within
sight of the camp-so that, standing in its
entrance, screened by its curtain of shrubbery,
she could see any one who should approach
it. At first, the darkness within was almost
intolerable, but her eyes soon became accus-
tomed to it ; and by removing asmuch of the
foliage as seemed superfluous,}she let in not
only additional light, but purer-air. Having
thus provided for her safety according to the
dictates of judgment and the limited means
circumstances allowed her, she felt that she
could do no more, and awaited anxiously the
developmentsof time.
The -sun had passed the meridian by the
time these simple preparations were com-
pleted. She was felicitating herself upon her
escape, when she saw some one advancing
toward the camp, and thought at first it
might be Nick or Pathaway ; but it proved
to be Bill Brace. He neared the camp in a
stealthy manner, looked in, seemed disap-
pointed, then searched for a trail. Several
times he came very -near the spot where
Madge was concealed, but finally went away,
to her great relief. The remainder of the
day and the ensuing night passed without
further incident. Early in the morning, how-
ever, Bill Brace and Carl6ta--the latter still
dressed as Indian Joe--appeared.     -
Madge began to tremble - for Bill Brace
was leading'~the dog Smuggler by a string.
There was now real cause for alarm. They
would unleash the dog ; impelled by affection,
he would take her trail, and come to her di-
rectly. There could be no doubt-the catas-
trophe was sure and at hand.  Madge was
filled with nervous horror.  Of what avail
was her escape from Carl6ta ! It was- only
postponing her fate-not averting it. She
gazed with palpitating heart from her covert.
She saw Carl6ta go into the camp, come out
again, glance searchingly from point to point,
taking in the surrounding scenery with a
sweeping look of her quick eyes.
She made a .motion to Brace, who slipped
the cord from Smuggler's neck. , Feeling him-
self at liberty, the animal ran into his master's
camp, smelt of the boughs where Madge had.
slept, sprang -out with his nose to the ground,
and ran toward the trees. Carl6ta as well as
Madge watched his movements with intense
interest. Smuggler was in the timber in a
moment, and as quickly disappeared.
" Where is he ?" asked Carl6ta.
" In the bushes," said Brace.
"Let us follow faster ; we shall lose Tight
of him altogether," added Carl6ta.
" We've lost sight of him now, but he'll
turn up ag'in soon, I reckon," replied Brace,
looking about him with evident perplexity.

"-Slow-footed idiot !" cried the girl; " if
your feet were half as fast as your tongue,
you would find him. He was on her trail, I
am sure."
"That may be true ; but where's the critter
now  ?"  '  .       .                  .t
Brace stopped close to the cavern.
Dogs don't git out o';sight in an onnateral
way, do they ?  Can't sink down into the
airth, nor go up into the air, can they ?"
Brace stared stupidly at Carl6ta.
"You have not half the sagacity of the dog,
though you may be quite as much of a brute,"
retorted Carldta, angrily. "Beat every bush
-look behind every rock and tree. We shall
find both dog and girl in some hole or covert."
Wh'Ie Carl6ta was speaking, she sprang for-
ward and stood at the entrance of the ,ave.'
Brace, meantime, ran about like one half-dis-
tracted, for he dreaded the anger of Carl6ta.
The critter dodged us by turnin' on his track,
or round a rock ; he may be a mile from here
by this time."
"Brace, you have strength, but not half the
cunning of' a woman. Look here ! What's
this ?"
Brace hurried to her'; she had parted the
bushes, and was pointing downward.
"You'll find the dog and the one we seek
in there," she added. Then, authoritatively :
" Go in, Brace, and bring them out."
"I'll look in, first," replied the ruffian.
"It's rather dark ; it may be a wolf's den,'-for
aught I know. I'm not afeard of an inemy
that I can see, but I don't like to be too ven-
tur'some in the dark."
Brace thrust his burly head into the open-
ing, but could see nothing but blackness.
"In, I tell you!" commanded Carl6ta, impa-
tiently.
' The dog will tear me," said Brace, sullenly.
' What does it matter? Your flesh will
heal again. 'Tisn't so tender and delicate that
you need to take such good care of it."
Brace slowly pushed his head and shoulders
into the darkness. A growl admonished him
to forbear.
"4What did I tell you ?" cried Carl6ta, tri-
umphantly. "She is there ; I knew it."
"I can see the dog's eyes ; they blaze like
coals !"
"Fool! -they are not the dog's-they are
her's ; they are fatally bright !" said Carlota,
wildly.
"Don't I know a gal's eyes from a dog's ?"
retorted Brace, sharply. "Give me my rifle ;
I'll shoot the critter."
Carl6ta pushed the rifle with her foot, so he
could reach it, then suddenly seized his arm.
" Hold ! I am afraid you will make a mis-
take, and rob me of my triumph. Take away
your bristly head, and let me look."
Madge sat shivering in the remotest limit
of the cavern, but' instinctively looked up

when Carl6ta looked in. The eyes of the lat-
ter seemed to conquer the darkness, for she
exclaimed:
" Come forth, girl, come forth! I am here
-Carl6ta is here. Yield, if you would save
the life of your faithful dog; be obstinate,
and I will order Brace to shoot him."
"Have you no pity-no remorse ?" cried
Madge.
"For you, none ; for the man I love, a world
of both!" responded Carl6ta.
" It's best to make an eend o' the dog, any-
way," said Brace, in whose memory was treas-
ured a former insult.
" Order away your ruffian, and I will obey
you," said Madge, with dignity. " I feel that
resistance to my fate is vain; but in common
humanity, I ask you to spare the dog."
" Bill Brace, harm a hair of the dog;. and
I'll hold your life of less value than his !" said
Carldta, imperiously, to her cringing confed-
erate.
Madge came out, followed by Smuggler--
who wished to make an assault upon Brace,
who stood with his rifle cocked, ready for such
a demonstration;. but, from feelings of mercy
to the dog, Madge restrained him.
"Woman! Carl6ta! I qm in your power.
Dispose of me-as you will; but take me not
to yonder Valley."
The eyes of the two girls met with an inten-
sity of emotion on the part of each-hatred,
jealousy, and revenge on the one hand ; wan-
der, consternation, and fear on the other.
Both were formed fair by Nature, and both
silently admitted the fact.
" Lead on !" said Carldta to Brace.
The latter shook his head sullenly, and re-
plied:
"I won't trust my back to the;dog, noways.
As soon's I turn, the chances are two to one-
that he'll spring to my shoulders, and put hi-
teeth into the back of my neck. I know the
natur' o' Nick Whiffles' dogs. This one isn't
so savage as t'other ; but he's l'arnin' his
tricks right fast. No, no; miss ! I ain't to be
tore to pieces by quadrupids."
" Send him away !" said' Carl6ta, sharply,
to Madge.
" It grieves me to part with him," she an-
swered, looking hesitatingly from Brace to
Smuggler, as .if measuring the chances of a
combat between them.
The eyes of the dog followed those of his
mistress ; he was evidently ready to try his
strength at her bidding.
"He's a fine brute ; but you must kill him,
Brace," added Carl6ta, after a moment's l'e-
flection.
"Go, Smuggler, go!" said Madge-" go back
'to your master."
smuggler looked -at her wistfully, as if to
'divine her purpose by her features. It was
not until she had repeated her command in a

PATHAWAY ; or., THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

107


103       PATHAWAY; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

more imperative voice that he obeyed, and
then reluctantly-halting, now and then, to
see if the order would not be revoked.
" Now that you are relieved of the 'ani ul,
go on," said Carluta.
The mountain robber shouldered his rifle,
and moved toward the east. Carl6ta and Madge
followed him.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
SEVEN-PLUMES.
The rays of the sun gleamed brightly on the
varied scenery. The summits of the moun-
taun-ranges were tipped with crimson and
gold. The long, trembling beams of light
gilded the branches of the trees, darted down
into the valleys, flickered against the broad
surfaces of the rocks, and painted fantastic
pictures upon lake and stream. But the
charms of Nature were lost upon Madge. A
sense of personal peril-a vague apprehension
-outweighed. all other considerations. Occa-
sionally', Carlsta's eyes kindled as she glanced
around her ; but if she found room in her agi-
tated breast for the beautiful, she did not ex-
press the sentiment. Madge watched for
some softening of her expression ; but the
feelings that guided her movements were too
strong to yield so readily.
Madge did not waste words in useless ap-
peals ; but followed her silently. She noticed
that Brace kept along the margin of the val-
lhy, following its general course. Sometimes,
the way was exceedingly rough, and her feet
were wounded upon the sharp stones ; but
the girl of the mountains, more used to such
traveling, sprang along after Brace with light-
ness and agility. If she unconsciously gained
upon Madge, and left her behind, she paused
for, her to come ;up-and once helped her
across a chasm, tut dropped her hand sud-
denly, as if the contact wounded her.
They reached a spot where the valley fell'
off precipitously.  Madge could look dlown
many feet upon -the tops of stunted trees,
sterile crags, ledges of red sandstone, and shat-
tered columns of basalt. Carleta paused to
rest. Madge was glad to recline beneath the
shade of acottonwood.
It was past noon.   Brace stood on the
verge of a precipice, leaning upon his rifle,
and looking at the scenery beneath. His face
was more serious than usual. Possibly a
shadow of the coming event had fallen within
the circle of his consciousness, thrilling him
with a vague fear. - Madge saw a figure spring
from the background and pause on the brink
of the abyss. So sudden and unexpected was,
the intrusion; that for an instant she was not
aware that Brace had disappeared. Carl6ta'
uttered an exclamation of surprise. On the,
spot where the outlaw was last seen stood a tall
and painted form, gazing at the two girls with
a grim, etultant look.
Although Brace had ever been an object of

abhorrence to Madge, she could not repress a
chill of horror at his fate. The Indian had
hurled him down the precipice._
"Treachery ! treachery !" cried Carl6ta.
" Redskin, what have you done ?"
"Pushed him over ; lie fall great ways-
kill him dead! White squaws go with Seven-
Plumes. Wigwam ten, 'leven, twenty miiles
off," answered the Indian, calmly.
"Seven-Plumes has deceived Dick Hen-
dricks. How can he tell him a straight story,
when lie meets him? He cannot ; his tongue
will stammer like a squaw's,".answered Car-
ldta, with wonderful self-possession.
"The Bear"-Seven-Plumes pointed down
the abyss-" had a bad tongue ; lie no speak
truth ; lie lie to Seven-Plumes, the chief of
the Blackfeet.' He say, he give-he negive.
Now he no lie no more."'
"The warriors of Seven-Plumes will bleed
for this ! The white'chief of the Valley will
cause his young men to fall like leaves when
the trees are shaken by the wind in the au-
tumn of the year," responded Carl6ta, with a
menacing gesture.                -
. "Seven-Plumes no care for Cap'n Dick!
He want one, two squaw ; he find one, two
squaw-he take 'em. He fight for Cap'n Dick,
too ; but Cap'n Dick he no give him 'nough
powder, and lead and hatchet."
"I will see that you have all that he agreed
to give you,"replied Carl6ta, thinking diploma-
cy the best policy.
"No want hatchet and powder now; want
squaw ;, got squaw-keep him !"
Carl6ta struggled to restrain her indignation
and disappointment. Fear of captivity did
not operate so strongly upon her as the thwart- '
ing of her plans.
"Do you hear what this redskin says ?" she
demanded, almost fiercely of Madge: " he
talks of his wigwam and squaws."
" It is but a change of masters. I hail this
new captivity with different emotions from
you. Thraldom with savages -cannot be so
dreadful as yonder valley and you," replied
Madge.
" True, I forgot ; I can hope nothing; from
you.  But the wife of a chief! 'Tis mon-
strous.!-Seven-Plumes, name the reward that
you demand for our freedom. How many
rifles, how many hatchets and knives, how
many pounds of powder, how much red stuff
for your favorite squaws ?"
The Indian knit his painted brows. His
wild and intractable nature could not brook
contradiction. He had enjoyed savage free-
dom from infancy ; his will  had been law
among his people for many summers. Should,
he submit to the dictum of a squaw?
" Seven-Plumes is a chief. When lie speak,
the great Blackfoot nation do as he say. If
he say,' Go on the war-path,' to his young men,
they go. If he say, ' Wash the war-paint from
your faces,' they come into the wigwams with

PAT11AWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                           109 *
clean skins. If lie say, 'Kindle the torture- a waif of thistle-down. Even our triumph is
fires,' they are kindled. If lie say to squaw, short-lived and our revenge imperfect. Wo-
' Go to such a lodge and be the wife of such a man-they call you Sebastian-you exult in
warrior,' she go. White squaw of the Valley, my disappointment."   i
come with Seven-Plumes."  Then to Madge,     "I am grateful for any change that takes
with eyes that glowed with conscious authiori- me from your hand. Exultation over one like
ty, " Pale-face girl with the painted skin, git you I do not, cannotfeel. I experience emo-
up and follow the chief of the- Blackfoot na- tions of pity in seeing one so young, so gifted
n                                      and fair, so lost, so wicked, so depraved by bad
There were imperiousness and genuine an- companionship."
tocratic dignity in the manner of the red-man. " Oh, you look down upon Carlkta of the
The wild, wayward girl pf the Valley changed mountains with lofty.compassion,,but I do not
color and felt her danger, realizing, for the thank you. Your pity a  another dropato
first time, that there were natures as strong  my resentment. If you exhibit these quali-
and unbending as her own.                 ties to me, how much more painshave you
" Chief," she said, after a little silence, skill- taken to display them to the hunter in gray.
fully and artfully modulating her voice to its And that wound I How I hate you for that
.most persuasive notes, " reflect that we are  wound !"
but girls, children, almost, while you are a  '"This is no time to indulge in such feelings.
inan nd a warrior, with a heart of iron ,and We are entering upon a captivity that may be
an arm  of steel. You are strong; we are long and dangerous ; for aught we know, life-
weak; the weak look to the strong for pito- long. We may drag out years of miserable
tection. The strong ought to be nagnani- servitude ; or, if we rebel, find a quicker,
Mons. A brave nian is always generous-a    though painful release by the fagot and light-
coward always the most abusive of power. ed pile. As for this wound, he who gave it
Do you hear wme, chief of the Blackfeet 7"  has gone to his reward ; he lies at the bottom
The smile that illuminated the swarthy vis- of yonder abyss. The birds will hover over
age of the Indian was both wily and exult- the spot before to-morrow, and the wolves will
aint. his rude and native pride was flattered, bicker with each other for his bones. Let his
too.                                       fate show you the end of vilhuiiny. This poor
" It isewell-spoken for a squaw ! I have lis- arm, it would seem, saved a life that is dear to
tened to the voices of many, but of few whose you; rather thank nee for the office, than bring
talk was so cunning. Seven-Plumes is -glad  it against me as a crime."
you speak so well. You make him want you "Prosy and inane moralizer! I detest female
more to keep his lodge and to welcome him  sermonizers ! I'd rather hear behind me the
when he returns from the successful trail. He long gallop of the wolf, than the voice of a
kill deer with his own hands ; lie kill buffalo ; wanting wonmum.. For the brute who lies man-
lie catch beaver and otter; he lay the choicest gled in the valley, I have few tears. His fall
meat and the best peltries at the feet of the  from the cliff has perhaps saved him  a fall
white squaw."                              from the scatfld," answered Carldta.
Tears of vexation, burning, bitter tears roll-  "But Nick Whifles-Ihonest Nick ! I have
ed scorching down Carl6ta's cheeks.   She  feared-I yet shrink from asking concerning
pressed the handle of the dagger in her bo- him ?" saidI Madge, anxiously.
som, glanced at her own small hand and arm,  Carlhta stopped on the instant. Something
then at the herculean proportions of the chief. like consternation appeared upon her face.
I Ie observed her with the eyes of an eagle, and  "I had forgotten him-I had really forgot-
smiled with satisfaction at the strength of her ten him!" she said, as if speaking to herself.
spirit. Before, she was but a pebble ; now,  "Where did you leave him ?" continue1
sIe was a diamond.                        Madge, the manner of Carldta increasing her
Seven-Plumes pointed proudly to the north- apprehensions.
east.                                        "Where did I leaveuhim!" repeated the girl,
" Yonder," said he, "are the Saskatchewan  with lips that paled in spite of her firmness.
prairies, and the best hunting-grounds of the "Yes, that is the question-where . I'll tell
Blackfoot. Many warriors will -welcome the you : In a dungeon of solid rock ! No one,
return of the chief. Come !"              'mows where he is but myself; no, one will
Made was already on her feet, and Carl6ta  carry him food; he will starve.!"
reluctantly arose. She glanced toward the   "Infamous !" cried Madge, indignantly.
abyss then at the mountains, the hills, the "Poor Nick ! This makes me miserable, in-
vales, the stretches of timber with which she  deed." .
iad been familiar, then followed Seven-Plumes  " I did not intend this," added Carl ta,
with reluctant feet.                      thoughtfully. "I expected to have seen him
1"Nothing happens according to our expec- long ago, but this treacherous Blackfoot has
tations," she muttered. "All things'change. thwarted my plans. The trapper was hard on
We are blown to and fro about the world like 'me while I was Indian Joe, and his suspicions

I


 110             PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.
were not ill-founded; but even his severity the rocks, out of range of a rifle ball. Hen.'
was not without a touch of good-nature. Yet drinks, who was conspicuous in the fray, was
the man Doubledark is dangerous. He has the last to withdraw from the contest, though
been watching us, and the mountaineers like nottill he had received a wound. .
not to be'looked after too closely."        Pathaway hastened to the spot where hie had
"Squaw he talk too much; he talk twice left Madge, but, not finding her, hurried to
where he walk but once," said the Blackfoot, the Mimie Castle where, they had camped.
with a scowl of displeasure.,             Being equally unsuccessful in that quarter, he
The captives went on, but the feet of Madge believed she had secreted herself somewhere
had grown heavier, while every step, it seemed in the vicinity. He ran from covert to covert,
to her, was taking her from one to whose res- seeking her, assured that she could not be far
cue she ought to fly-' .                  off. This confidence, however, gave place to
" Yes,". added Carl'ota, as if speaking to her- real alarm as his search grew more extended,
self, " the people of the Valley consider him and the results no more satisfactory. He
an enemy, but Carlsta is not cruel to those  called her name. The name of Madge was
who have not injured her. Sebastian--" the whispered among the rocks--at first, faintly ;
girl's lip curled contemptuously.         more loudly anon.    Now, the word arose
" Ca me Madge," said the other.        softly and tenderly; and now, in tones husky
"I am sorry that the man must, perish in  with apprehension.
such a lingering manner," resumed Carlsta.  " Madge !"-the name grew dearer as he re-
"But will not some of your people hear his peated it.  As disappointment ,after disap-
cries ? demanded Madge.                   pointment followed expectation, the maiden
" His voice will fall dead and echoless on the grew more important in his estimatic i. He
walls of his stony sepulchre. No, girl, no; recalled innumerable things she had said, and
there is no hope for Nick, the trapper, unless remembered as many graces that had been be.
I escape from this Indian."               fore unappreciated. - Her beauty of person
"God grant, then, that you may escape !'! was presented in a new and more fascinating
said Madge, with fervor. s.               form, and he resolved to atone for past neglect,
" And you?" queried Carl6ta.            or any want of gallantry that he might have at
"In thinking of Nick I forgot myself. I any time been guilty of, the instant he had
think only of the long, dreary hours before an opportunity of doing so.
him ; of wasting hunger ; of scorching, agon-  He felt remorse for his sometimes cruelty to
izing thirst; of the craving, unspeakable tor- the boy Sebastian.  Jeanjean and Portneuf
tures of starvation ! You know not the ties joined in the search ; nor did they relax their
that bind me to that man; you know not the efforts till the morning sun arose upon the
nature of the debt I owe him; ,you know   Mimic City.
not-"                                       When the parties gathered around the
SI know more than I speak," interrupted  mornii camp-fire to make a breakfast on the
Carlita.  .   -flesh of the mountain-sheep that Nick had
Madge threw a quick, inquisitive glance at provided, each had a depressed and anxious
the girl of the mountains. oe ma          expression.  The Shoshone, who had been
"What is mysterious to one ma be appar- outlying as a scout and sentinel, Joined them
ent to another. What we cherisK as a pro- while they were eating. He could give them
found secret may be borne about in the breast no information of Madge. The non-return of
of an enemy."..                           Nick, too, troubled Pathaway. He was well
" Unfortunate as I am, driven to these wild persuaded that he-had met with ill luck.
.solitudes by the force of wayward destiny, I Portneuf and Jeanjean were of the same opin-
should have found in one of my own sex a ion. The restoration of the latter- seemed
sister, and notan enemy," replied Madge, ready perfect so far as his mental faculties were con-
to sink under the pressure of accumulated mis- cerned.  He experienced some uneasiness
fortunes.-                                from the wound, but not sufficient to prevent
Carlota dis not answer, and the two walked  him from wishing to engage at once with Port-
wearily after the chief.                  neuf in an attempt to rescue Ninon and Nick
----                    -provided the trapper had fallen into the
CIAPTER XXXIV.                hands-of the outlaws.
THE SEARCH.                   Pathaway was familiar enough with surgery
Pathaway-saw the danger that threatened to understand that quietude was imperative in
Madge and himself, and sprang up to meet it. such a case, and prevailed on Jeanjean with
The appearance of the Shoshone gave him   much difficulty to remain at rest at the camp
fresh hope and courage. The Indians with- till the following day. Having carried the
stood the first onset with some -firmness; but point, the gray hunter and the Shoshon6 be-
Portneuf and Andrew Jeanjean healing the gan a systematic search for the trail of Madge;
firing, and rushing to the assistance of their but the hard and sterile mountain-side was
friends, the red allies of Hendricks gave unyielding to human feet, and it was seldom
ground, and were soon safely hidden among  that the imprint of even a heavy man's foot

_,

could be, found. They passed around the
camping-ground in circles that consecutively g
grw in circumference ; and it was not until a
the last reached the Valley that anything re- x
seinblin the imprint of a woman's foot could
be found, and then, only two or three slight
impressions on softer soil, that stopped as I
suddenly as they had begun.I
It must be borne in mmd, that these move-
ments had to be made with excessive cau-
tiousness, and necessarily consumed much.
time. On soil less obdurate, and without' their
drawback of watchful enemies, the task ofc
tracing the trail of Madge would have
been comparatively easy. Signs were found
near Devil's Gate, near a spring of water
which had saturated the earth ; and their 1
proximity to the entrance of the Valley made
Pathaway fear that she had either unwittingly 4
sought shelter in that dangerous neighbor-
hood, or been conducted there by Hendricks
or his men.' He wished to explore the gloomy
spot; but it was already dark, rendering it im-
practicable to find or follow a trace so slight
and broken. With extreme reluctance, he
yielded to the counsel of the Shoshon6, and re-'
traced his steps to the camp at Mimic City to
He dreamedof Madge more than ever that
night. He saw her in peril and distress. Now4
she was with the outlaws at Trapper Valley,
suffering every-species of indignity, and nowI
she was in captivity to the red men, moment-
arily expecting Nick and himself to come to
her release. His sleep was so. disturbed dur-
ing the first part of the night, that the Sho-
shons was up before him in the morning. It1
was the hand of the chief that awakened him.
from his first refreshing slumbers. Portneuf
and Jeanjean were already stirring.
" There are four of us," said the latter,
" and duties for each. My wound has para-
lyzed my efforts too long. Portneuf and I
have made up our minds what to do: we will
rescue Ninon, or perish in the attempt !"
"The feeling is natural and right," said
Pathaway.. "I need not warn you that the
enterprise will be attended with no common
danger. The voyageur has doubtless already
informed you of the circumstances. The
story of his own sufferings and escape give
you an insight into the true character of those
with whom you have to deal."
" I know all, and will dare all," replied
Jean'ean, with energy.
" I will use no arguments to dissuade you
from. your purpose, for it is laudable ; but in
your zealor    inon, do not forget the man
who has twice periled his life for her. Re-
member Nick shiffies!"
" God forbid that I should forget him !" ex-
claimed Jeanjean. : " My restored faculties,
my consciousness of life and its responsibili-
ties-everything that is dear to man-admonish
me to remember him. Who that has known
him can cease to think of him with pleasure?"

The two menshook handswithPathaway and
descendedbya long detourtothe Valley. Path-
away and the Shoshon6 soon after followed by a
more direct route. On the way, they were
met by the dog Calamity, alias Misfortune.
He had a piece of bark in his mouth, which
he dropped at the hunter's feet. Pathaway
picked it up, and read the following words,
rudely cut with a knife :
" IN A PISON DIFFIKILTY. CANT GIT -OUT, I
ALLOW. TAKE GOOD KEER 0 THE DOG KALAM-
ITY, AND DONT LET IT BE KNOWD DOWN IN THE
cLEARINS BUT NICK WHIFFLES IS DOIN WELL."
"What says the talking-bark ?". asked the
Shoshone.
" That our friend is in trouble, and expects
no relief. Indian Joe, I fear, betrayed him."
" Were the eyes of the gray hunter so dim ?"
demanded the chief.
"I trusted the boy because he discharged
the trust that was reposed in him with fideli-
ty," answered Pathaway.
"Brave men are not always cunning," re-
turned Multnomah. " One may have the
strength of the buffalo without the knowledge
of the fox or the subtlety of the ser pent. Had
the pale-face asked the Shoshone, he would
have told him what the smooth-faced boy
was," added the Indian, with a slight gesture
of contempt.
"White men," responded Pathaway, "speak
their thoughts, but the red - men disguise
them."
" Doubledark did not speak his mind to
Multnomah. He did not say to his friend : 'I
am going with the boy to the Valley, where
the voice of the Thunder-Spirit is sometimes
heard.' Had he said this, the Shoshone would
have told him better."
"Doubledark is reputed wise. He baffles
his enemies; he has eyes that are not afraid to
look at the sun."
"The wise' sometimes act without wisdom.
The heart of Doubledark was heavy for the
pale woman. He no sleep at night, because
she was before him in dreams. Heart too soft
-risk too much. But Multnomah is his
brother, and he goes to find him."
" But Madge ?" said Pathaway.
"First Nick, then Madge," replied the In-
dian.
"I cannot and will not object to any reason-
able undertaking in behalf of the trapper,
Nick ; but the helplessness of the young girl,
Madge, appeals continually to my sympa-
thies."
They had now reached the spot where they
had found the trail of Madge on the previous
night. Pathaway hung anxiously over the im-
printof her little feet, while the chief observed
him in silence.
"The Shoshons," said the young man, at
length, " is older than I ; he understands
what is good, and I will listen to his words."
"Multnoinah knows the thoughts of .the
young hunter ; he thinks of the boy4quaw:;

PArtnAWAY; R, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.X11

i

r           '


112,            PATHAWAY ; OR, THE
his spirit is heavy for the fair face of the girl.
But'young men are apt to be hasty. Listen
to the talk of Multnomah, and if it is no good,
no take it."
The chief pointed at Nick's dog, and added:
"He come from Doubledark-he knows the
way back."
" True !" said the young man, struck with
the idea. " He can, without doubt, find his
master. I am ready to go."
The dog, meantime, had turned toward
Devil's Gate, and was looking back over his
shoulder at the Indian and Pathaway.
" Go on, dog, go on !" said the latter, and
the animal, with ears erect, and a satisfied wag
of the tail, sprang into the tunnel. The pas-
sage had lost none of its gloominess since the
young man visited it. Itsrough and timne-worn
port s frowned grimly on them as they enter-
ed, and though the morning sun was beaming
brightly, its rays penetrated but a short dis-
tance into the passage, falling refracted and
broken on. rock and column.
" Feet have walked here since the sun came
up," saidaMultnomah.
"How do you know-?" asked -Pathaway.
"Look !" returned the chief. " Here is a
sign."
Trhe hunter stooped over the spot indicated
by the Indian, and detected the imprint of a
damp moccasmn.   -       ..
"Yes," he answered, "some of the moun-
taineers have left the Valley recently."
" Let my brother be dumb. To-day they go
out and they come in. Cap'n Dick watch very
sharp."
"My tongue is sealed," returned the young
man, and threaded his way noislessly after the
Shoshone, the dog keeping a few paces in ad-
vance. A portion of the distance they could
not see' their canine guide, but occasionally
heard his feet upon the stones. They issued
from the darkness without accident, and pass.
ing the boiling spring, arrived at the stream,
which they were about to cross, when they
perceived that the dog had stopped in the
middle of it. This pause was of short duration,
for the moment he found that the circumstance
had attracted their notice, he walked down the
bed of he stream to a point where it ran be-
neath an arch of sandstone, and was lost to
view. Under this arch their fore-footed guide
disappeared.
" Dad men hide from the sunlight like owls,"
muttered the Indian.
In a moment they were in titter darkness,
guided only by thq splashing of the dog's feet
in the water. Pathaway did not remember
that he had ever experienced such a feeling of
complete isolation. Could one be more hidden
from the world? he queried. What if a frag-
ment of rock should fall from the dark roof and
shut there in ? He shuddered as the thought
shot through his mind. He could not resist
epituring some of the horrors of such a fate.
The air was damp and chilly,.and the walls,

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.
when he touched them in feeling his way for-
ward, felt like blocks of ice.
By-and-by a thread of light appeared, but
which was much farther off than it at first
seemed; it grew stronger as they advanced,
and crept down, as they perceived, through a
cleft in the rook. Both parties hailed the light
of day with satisfaction.
While pausing to breathe the fresher air and
catch a glimpse of the upper world, Multno-
mah's eyes fell uponan extinguished and half-
burned torch thrust into a crevice, where it
had been placed, doubtless, by some one for
future use. The torch was at once lighted by
means of one of Pathaway's pistols, the dog
waiting for them  impatiently. They, soon
reached a spot where the subterranean way
suddenly widened, and the ceiling was more
lofty.' The stream ran onward in a narrow
bed, while there was firm and comparatively
dry footing to the right and left.
Calamity now darted forward to the right, at
right angles with the stream, and presently
they heard him bark loudly. Both quickened
their steps. The light fell upon a dark chasm,
upon the brink of which the dog was standing.
Multnomah approached it carefully, and sink-
ing upon his knees, held the torch over the-
abyss.             .    .
" Nicholas ! Nicholas !" said Pathaway, in a
low voice.
There was no answ r to this call.
"He must' be here, ' added the young man-
"The instincts of the dog cannot err. Nicholas !
Nicholas !..
He spoke louder, but his voice seemed to
rebound from the abyss as if the darkness below
were impenetrable even to sound.
Calamitybayed persistently, his heavy voice
echoing over their heads like a volley of inus-
ketrv.
"IHullo! you there,- dog ?" hailed a voice
that appeared to come from a great distance.
" Could you raise any body to come arter me,
old feller, or must I make up my mind to give
up things of a subliunar nature in this pesky
hole.".
" Nick ! Nick !" shouted Pathaway. " Your
friends arehere. What has happened? How
fare you?"
" Ls that you, Colonel? I'm glad to hear a
human voice. I'm in a prison diffikilty, I swear
to gracious !" said the voice that incontestibly
belonged to Nick Whiffies.
" You're alive, thank God !" exclaimed the
hunter.
" Yes, alive, but the condemned boy carried
me a good 'eal out o' my depth. Here I am in
a well deep, enough for the driest seasons, I
allow, though there happens to be but little
water in it Jest pow. I'd come up and see ye
if I could, but I can't leave ; which onp'lite-
ness I hope you'll excuse."
"But how did you get in, and how shall we
get you opt ?" inquired Pathaway.
" It all come of that boy," replied the trap-

I

PATHAWAY ; 'OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

A

I

118

per, in a melancholy voice. " And le wasn't to thirty year may be deceived by some silly
much in the boy line, neither. I'm a good 'eal animile that takes it into its head to play 'pos-
took down, Colonel --ever so much took sum. As I was tellin' ye, the boy went mincin'
down !"                                   along afore me like a French danin'-master,
" You are, indeed," replied the hunter ; without so much as turnin' the axletrees of his
"o, fear, thanwe shall be able to take you  ig eyes on to me till we reached this bole.
up."                                      which was as dark as darknesescrowded in eould
" Treachery's something' we aan' guard make it. As Little P'ison held his torch over
ag'inst, and the best on us is liable to be took it, I thou bit the darkness hsd been rammed
in by it. Wait a moment, Colonel, and lill down with a ram-rod, by mighty! Glancin'
elin up the rocks where I can speak to ye to one side on't, I see a rope hangin' down.
with less exertion." Nick was silent a short '*This is a well, isn't it?' see 1, 'w ere ye git
time, during which Pathaway heard him toiling  the water for the 'stablishment ' Then the
up the rocks- -                         ' pesky nondeseriptionof aboy spokeIngin ag'in
"I can't git no higher," he said, presently, carter the old fashion.
"for it's smooth as my hand above the ldge  "'Doubledsrk go,down; take hold rope-
I'm standin' on. I've tried bard enough tofif U lslip alog s-come to bottom ; then let go ;
a foothold and a hand-hold, but I might 'a' walk good ways ; turn fust one weyright hand,
spared my strength. I don't think a human  turn next 'tother way left hand; i bime-by find
critter ever got into jes' sich a diffikilty afore. white woman.' I looked at him inquiring , as
My gran'father prehaps come the nearest to it werer, but he stood starin' down to his feet,
when he was slopped out of his sulky into-the and pesky small feet they was, though, as I
crater o' Vesuvius; but then he was iblowed told ye, an wit and wisdom didn't come till
out ontotearry farny ag'in by the next 'rp on. too late. $omethin' said to me 'Nick Whif-
But there's been no 'ruption here, and wouldh't files, don't go down!' Then I thought ofpretty
be 'f I's to stay to alletarhity.! Oh Lord, no !" Nanny, Portneuf,.and Andrew hajneau. ' Lit.
Nick reflected a moment on this unaccom- tle Ingin,' sex I, in a voice that made him
modating state of affairs, and went on again.  tremble, I allow, 'I have my fears and doubts
" I never had much faith in the boy, as you  consarnin' your natur', andif you play me any
know, colonel; I allers looked on him witl a o' your heathen tricks, ill skulp ye, I swear
s'picious eye. 'Little Pison,'?sea I to myself to egrae4ctra! Davin' said them words, I cx-
every time I seed hin, 'you a'n't- here:for no amiied the.rope to see if 'twas made sufficient
good.' I had him tied more nor once, as it fast, and findin' it 'twas, trusted myself on it,
won't trouble you to recollect. But when he like a fool, and went down with my torch. I
come to speak about the gal; sayin; that he'd, swung about some time durin' the descent in a
lead me to her, he took me at my weak p'int. way that was frightful ; but I reached the bot-
If there's anything more nor another that soft. tom in safety. 'All right!' sea I, and-turned
ens me, it's calico in .if.11ty. He looked to look for the, passage that I'e to foller with
honest-like, and I thought I'd trust him. ae so many turning's to find the trapper's darter.
took me to the Devil's Gate, ona bee line, and Would- you, b'lieye it, colonel, I thought of
it wasn't the fust time b many that he'd tra- that song poor Andrew usedto sing, and didn't
versed the ground, I allow. ' e ..ided me keer a straw about the danger. Holdin' m
through the tunnel like little era towing a light afore me, I soon perceived that I coulda't
big one, though I noticed that he got short- go a greet ways in any direction 'thout run-
breathed and tired seranmblin' over the rocks. nin' plump ag'in a wall of airth and rock.
Well, we reached the stream, when the lad  'Nick Whiies, you've done wrong,' something'
left me awhile, syin' he'd be back ag'in. I said to me ag'in, and a little qualm come over
confess I felt mighty skeery and distrustful me. I made a sweep all round me with the
while he's gone, but he feared arter a time torch, but there was no passage-nosa signof
with a couple o' pine torches. This looked as a passage!
if he's in airnest, and the earetntance give  "As the conviction cone over me, I seed
me courage."                             the rope a glidin' up over the 'sgge° p'ints
" Take one o' these here,' se he, 'and fol- like a sarpint. That p'ison boy av ed it
ler me.' So I took one of the torches and fol- up !. I knowed then that I's de;iV+e&amp;
lered him; -His voice didn't sound Inginy a  "'What you doing' with that ropeF' Ishout.
bit, when he said that, but I was thinking' so ed.
'much of Nanny, that Ididn't reflect on-it long.  "'Drawin' it up,' ses he, in aves that was
Well, on he went, steppin' very'gingerly, a if.mighty lear.
Ingin :boys= was nat'ra y afeard of the water.  "' W et youdrawin' it up for?' ses I, kind
He shivered, too,sev'ral times, which made of husky-likein the throat.
me think he was a odd redskin. But it often  "'So you can'tgit up,',seazhe.
ha-ppesathat our wit and wisdom don't come  "'You've betrayed me, ou little redskin?'
- illarterwards. Good swimmersare drownded .sea I.  iBut don't think that you'llgit the ad-
mnighaboutas freq en, as other folks;kso old vantage of me forfresh .kou might-eramthis
trappers who have trod the peraries hard on hole with p'ison di  .os,' se I, 'and. you

w
5.
x
i
i  ,
x

'1

I;

.{


PATHAWAY ; OR, TUIH MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

cop  't keep- Nick Whiffles down I Nick eighth, andIwent of in a heavy, nightmareish
Whe isn't of a natur' to be kept down.' .aee that lasted a good while. 1 -waked up
MpsvA~tie eyes of Dubledark so very cleared in 3edgment, though benunibed in ,
4o :;screamed    gide from: above, in a  body. The dog was still at his post, and would
t    hat syrpriased me woundedly, 'twas so you ,tlieve it, colonel, on openin' my eyes I
I~ike' a*orns  'Ilas the oldt'apper could see nighabout as well asafore the torch
o a blind thatibe can't distinguish theifise went out. The eye 'commodates itself te dark-
the -true                           ness, vyou know, and people in dungeons, I've
Tem-e was't'  a particle of Ingin-in the  heerd, see very well-arte'r awhile. -I thought
voice, then; 'twas a  white and girlish voie  6it time to make an effort, and T'arn if there's
'When next you want to see Ingin Joe,' any chance of escape. Seeing' the rocks were
the critter went on, 'inquire for Carl ta, the pooty rough, I'didn't know but I could climb
outlaw's 4duhier.'                      out. Finding' foothold, I mounted with a deal
Co      Iwas dumbfounded I~ Scarcely'o' 'trouble, but could git no higher nor here.
has       g sonme aeroes me as that did  While I stood lookin' up wistfully, I seed
was aexed and out'o' i6rts"with myself for :be: sonethin' stickin' in a crevice ; it was a piece
i' toobae in bya gal, though 'the"charaqter  o' birch-bark, which had apperientlybeen used
Sayed with a heapo'      etion and cun- rfor a torchfor it was rolled up, and one 'end
mu'.                               on't charred with fire. I took it, and settin'
Ga'sa  'e    rod dust in m    on the ledge where.I acm now, enaed a  es-
-     yes, I ownaynd it goescrdds ays to my ride sage'on't with ny knife. Then  picked off a
S        ne. it w i have nat'ra gifts fragment o' rock and rolled itup in the bark.
thit' iiht f 'pit   '=Iether 'uses.' Bega' a I didn't sueeed in throwing' it up at"the fust'
,y cant       o do me no harm, trial, nor the second,ineither, but was obleeged
ut jest to ha e 'your ~eznan's'joke; andas to go downto the bottom fort sev'ral times,
'yor 'ate'b it, ,dropthe roe ag'in, and I'll which was no slight job; but presently I got
cisnh put 'this  Yt-rap ofr it's oncommon it up.
S''anad oinhealth, ,and my lungs 'isn't so  "'Take that,' seaI to. the dog, 'and run
strong h some. Pon't be aeardthat I'll hurt like p'isonl Go,' 'ses I, 'right quick to Se-
ef      on'E  Nick Whifles-wouldn't hurt' bastion or the colonel, or somebody, and they'll
o' the=female persuasion on no account '  know what to do.'
R'matnnwhee you be for the present,' sex  "'BowwoWP ('answered the animile.
she, 'ou took the advantage of mn when l's  "-'Come back with 'em,' se' I," and show
nobody but poor Thgini'Joe, and now you're 'em 'the way.'
~itt  y your 'ayfot. 'Howsornnever," she  "'Xe 'started"off, and I've waited for him
n'sy that I mea to starve with what'patience I could, though it's very
you, though  u y've acted theopyo othe oun- dull business do*n here, with sich prospectt
casy longenough to deserve it.','      afore ne. I knew I'could depend on you-and
th t     .to  her that wecouldn't the Ingin,and trusted that Providence would
none on usstruggle ag'in Providence; pnd if befriend Nick Whiffies once inore.n
'twas so writ *n the book o' fate that I was to  "Your story is a strange one," replied
erish it i ind sich a manner, in that way  Patbaway.' "So Carlsta was my guide. 'Twas
shld perish. 'Marcy  is a 'good thing in a a singular whim, surely. It seems incredible,
'woman,', 'observed, in hopes to tetch her, but I can now recall many inconsistencies in.
n '.heat, andthen the light' disappe 00d above. the character of Indian Joe."
am' my ear to thC rocks, I 'couldihear her  "There was one among us who was not de-
R _  is , i saay. Myfeelin's was 'onp peasant; I eeived, I allow," said Nicholas, "and that one
ean't_4eser'be'em, For a little while, I a'llow "isn't fu off, though his natur' isn't white na-
Smdie    d    and  the   . itll  ty owed  tur'."
g uead deat looeat me     The Shoshons was obviously flattered by
t                 'pWal, rm and.awful ,  this remark.
e torch into acrevice andwatch-  "The eyes of-the young hunter," he added,
% N  --ralin'in a wholesome way. I addressing Pathawa, "should have looked
t rnfu21 sound above, It was Ca- into the heart of Indian Joe, and seen himself
melancholy. I left lin with there as he' sees himself in the water' The
'bTht gh  =    eut ie  ok 'iny trail and follered. Shoshon6 sees much and speaks little."""
not  lie made wasn't cheerful, I '"des' so, chief! And dow perhaps you'd
r'  dhidt't feelinlghso lonelyandacastdown asa  better look round a little, and see if  u can't
d    o    I tked tohim asif he's 'human, 'find the rope that she took away. 'It can't be
"4 'an ' taled 'eordin' tohist, back ag'in, fur 'off, in course. I can' fast and thirst as
which was all he could do. My torch burned 'well another, but the feelin' isn't byno'oeans
F  alon and went utand Isot there gloomy eomfortable."'
euhnh 'tbhout=tbinlxkn" of 'an way of gittin  'Pathaway-immediately beg  to search for
e clikl'     T ng dsn air sort ef chilled the'rope,and- found it in the Obscure back-
1iybl ; I'd been broke o' my rest several  roundof the cavern, where it had been

e

PATHAWAY-; Ot, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

b

plased by Carl6ta. To make it fast and lower
one end into the shaft, was the work of a few
moments. The young man feared Nick would
not have strength enough to ascend, and ex-
pressed himself to that effect.
" Not a bit on't, colonel !" said Nicholas, as
he commenced climbing. "These muskles o'
mine are 'the right kind for sarvice. They've
been tried a thousand times, and there isn't a
weak spot in 'em. There's no useless fat on
'em. Fat, colonel, is the enemy of muskies.
For strength and hardihood nothing' is wantin'
but the solid flesh. Here I come, you see I"
Nicholas ascended the rope hand over hand,
but the gray hunter perceived that the action
cost him more effort *than he was willing to
acknowledge. Calamity, meantime, stood with
his forefeet on the verge of the shaft, watch-
ing the -progress of his master. His bushy
tail wagged with satisfaction, while his large
eyes sparkled with joy as he reached the sur-
face.-.
Pathaway and the Shoshons each caught
him by an arm and drew him from his living
sepulchre. The veteran did not speak, but
sank upon the hard floor of the cavern. -
The dog leaped upon his shoulders, licked
his face, rubbed his great head against his
cheeks, laid.down u pon him, rolled over, made
a sound like a dumb person trying to speak,
and a hundred dog-demonstrations of delight.
The trapper put his arms around his neck,
and for a short time rested.his' damp forehead
upon it.
" To Providence fust," he murmured, "to
you next, and the humans arterward. These
s the sentiments of Nick Whiffles, and. on
this platform 'you'll find him. Yes," he re-
peated, as if communing with himself, " on
this here platform you'll find him.' 'Tisn't
the loudest thanksgiving, " he went on serious-*
ly, " that's the deepest, and the most accept-
able to the Master o' Life. It may be said,
prehaps it has been said, that I haven't them
feelin's o' rev'rence, that dependent critters'
oughter have ; but howsomenever that mayt
be-and I'won't be so presumptuous as to be
my own jdge-I do feel rdfor liewhen
it's spared, and for the kind marcy and'pro-.
teetion of the Power that can see into the e
vaults of the mountings with a- clearer eye
nor the sun can look down upon the peraries l
at noonday."  Nick drewhis brown handr
slowly across his eyes. .
No one interrupted him. The Shoshonec
looked  avely toward the murky roof above ,e
hi, andPathaway was sensibly affected.  -
Dogs,' continued the trapper anon, " was s
ade fotr man, and when they'ree well-used, -
they're true and never-faili friends. Lose
everything you've got, be turned out o' house i
and home and become a beggar in the streets,'
and your dog'll foller ye all the same. Patches i
and ragson't disgust hn; he'll lick your 
hand te same When you've no bread to give fi

its

him. The dog don't turn up his nose at you
-the dog don't-when you're in disgrace, and
at last will howl over your grave in giniwine
grief when there's not a human beim' to drop
a tear on it."
Nicholas placed his hand on the shaggy
head, and tie eyes beneath beamed on bin
with unspeakable affection..
CHAPTER XXV.
THE oUTAws AT neat.
Nick Whiffes arose and stood erect.
" Colonel," he said, stretching out his hand,
" I thank ye! '.Thank ye' is werds that is
easy spoke, but not allers felt."
"It would be unjust, Nicholas, to take mueh
credit to myself fdr your rescue.: To the
chief of the Shoshones you ae, so nmck i -
debted, that it would be unpardonable in .me
not to make particular mention of 1#s n me.'
" It's the modesty o' youth,"       the
trapper, and it's a thing I like to see in these
days when boys think the 're en afore the
have trapped beaver or brought dowi a b
faler at fifty rods." Then advancing to: ult.
nomah and confrontin  him steadily,"  n,'
I krow your natur' and you know mine We
don't need much said atween us. . Thi isn't
the fust' debt I owe ye, and i'don't know of
any individooka, be the compleio of ,isaskin
what it may, that I'd ruther owe: a goodturn
to. We've- slept with our feet at. thelame
fire, Shoshons, and took the ptter aild the
beaver from the same.waters."
"It is as ,Doubledark says; Miltnomash
knows what is in his heart," returned the
chief.
"Sartin," returned Nicks "IIt's your na-
tur' to be cuick at understanding thinks,"
The Indian did not answer, but mi   g'a
gesture of silence, walked quickly to tie grub.
mountain stream. Nick and thehunter saw
him stop and stand in a fixed and listening ast
titude.
P'athaway was holding the tireh, and its
rays glimmered feebly against the person of
the'chief, making him resemble a piece of iron
statuary.
"It's nat'ral to hin, aat'ral to him," whim.
pered Nick. "kRed blood is quicker o' hearin'
nor white, less the white is eddicated by prae-
ice. He hears somethin'which you promably
can't.," Now, colonel, lay down and put your
ear c '  theground,pervidin'\there's an
nat ragirth hereabouts, ad I'l  e  nu'l-
c    yareel hear a  dsod equaltothe tkiaofa.
watch.e
"I'm not so much of a novie asyu' a
ma no,' replied          s  eathaway, eomew - irund
it ick's low estimateof his'powers
ngthe torehinto aerfencet    enea'k4  ater
ned the experiment                    his
friend.

r   Ya  ,        ,. :eq    .  y;5
,         y i

114

.,
d
F


116              PATHAWAY ; OR, THE
"Wrong, trapper, wrong for once ! I hear
the distant splashin of water," he said.
Nicholas stretched his person upon the floor
of the cavern with a quickness that;was like
the spring of a cat. For a space he was im-
mobile as the solid foundation beneath him.
" It is very well--very well, indeed, for a
beginner," he said, approvingly., "And not
that, neither, but mighty cute in one that
hasn't trod the peraries many years. There
is splashin' in the water I If you've, you'll
yit be able to walk side an' side with the
Shoshone."
" Your good opinion is gratifying. A word
of praise from Nick Whiffles is something to
be proud of. The sounds, trapper, come this,
way."_
"And the Ingin, too.  It's a right good
-hing, colonel, to have a critter of so much
sagacity to help us in the time o' need. Now
f nw from his manner, by the way he walks
and the *ay he looks (and it comes of bem'
with him) that he's made up his mind what to
do."  47
Tho     words of Multnomah verified the
predietio   Nicholas.
"Co     down the water-two, three, four.
White "en."
The ohief plucked the torch fom the cre-
'Ac, and swinging it to increase the baze,
strode with all the rapidity compatible with
wariness into the dark background. Patha-
way noticed that Nick followed him with un-
wavering confidence, and his own spirits arose
responsive to his evident assurance. He feared,
that the cave was not sufficiently capacious to
afford them a secure hiding-place from those
who approached ; but his apprehensions were
speedily dispelled by the increasing extension
of the subterranean vault. The floor was now
clayey and damp. The chief turned around
a sharp abutment of earth and extinguished
the torch. .dsildtb
Nick was as quieted as little disturbed as
if in his own solitary but, a score of miles
from a known enemy.
Pathaway wished to question the Shoshone,
but with the satisfied example of Nick before
him, restrained the impulse. He was wise
enough to comprehend, that if -one older and
more experienced than himself was perfectly
reliant on the knowledge and trustworthiness
of the Shoshone, he should also manifest the
same faith and "onfidence. He therefore com-
posed his features, and appeared as stoical as
possible. Wisdorp, perhaps, consists in imi-
tating those supposed to'know more than our-
aelis. this is the philosophy of the world,
at least, and is acted daily by those who wish
tai  per well in the eyes of pseudo society.
.  o young man lated, maot without secret
a1ety,,the development of events." It is far
itZyto exercise the higher qualities of
thelnan mind than to read ofthem; and
for a time even the brave spirit of Pathaway

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.
was agitated by suspense. The consciousness
that he was armed, and supported also by two
persons of tried courage and constancy, in-
spired him with confidence not easily shaken.
The splashing of the water was now such as
to indicate the proximity of the coming  ar-
ties. The light from their torches, too, gum-
mered on the passing stream and flickered
upon the rocky roof among the drooping sta-
lactites, and the large drops of water collected
upon the sharp points, just read yto drop.
Looking from behind the protect ing angle,
Pathaway and his companions saw a man
emerge from the subterranean passage, bear-
ing a toch in his.right hand. It was Dick
Hendricks. His left arm was bandaged and
in a sling, while his features were pale from
loss of blood apparently. The blaze shining
on his face revealed in a striking manner the pe-
cular hardness and recklessness of his nature.
The hunter experienced an unpleasant thrill
of astonishment at beholding the next object
that presented itself. Andrew Jeanjean came
after the outlaw captain, his countenance near-
ly as pallid as that of the latter, and hii hands
secured by a cord about the wrists. This un-
expected spectacle gave the young man unal-
loyed pain. He would have observed the via-
ages of his comrades but for the obscurity.
Walking behind the prisoner appeared three
armed men.
What did this portend ?  A visit to such a-
locality, under such circumstances, could have
no good for its object, and Pathaway trembled
for the trapper's fate..
Jeanjean's expression was firm and resigned
-like one conscious of peril, yet resolved to
meet it with becoming manliness. As Hen-
dricks ushered him into the cavern, he threw
an inquiring,-earnest look around him, and
his cheeks, the hunter thought, grew paler.
The robber captain flourished his torch till
his menacing face seemed set in a circle of
fire, then approached the shaft with cautious
yet hasty steps. An indignant glow warmed
the hunter's blood.  The pulsations of his
heart grew quick with expectation, nor could
he refrain from drawing Nick farther behind
the abutment, and whispering :
"Nicholas,[ am sure I can depend on you,
Nicholas, if5 kything dreadful is to be pre.'
vented."
"I think so, colonel, I think so !" returned
Nick, pressing the young man's hand.   ou
haven't knowed me a great while par   ally,
but. you've heerd of me, and can form some
idee what my natur' is."
Pathaway gratefull returned the pressure
of the trapper's hand, and hurried back to
watch the progress of events.,
"Where's the rope ?" asked lHendricks, in
a tote that indicated that his temper had been
recently ruffed.
"It's hanging' in the hole, oap'n," answered
one of his fellows.

I.

I                                                          U

1

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.      117

"Ninon, my poor Ninon !" exclaimed Jean
can, dejectedly, while his breast heaved wit]
emotion.I
"Go down !" said Hendricks, pointing t
the ropewith his torch.
Andrew turned toward Hendricks and re
plied :-
"I have followed you hither because I could
not resist your will. I came to the Valley o
an errand of meroy, but unfortunately fell in
to your power.  From you, Richard Hen
dlricks, I expect little kindness, yet I do en
tr. at of you to pause before you proceed t
burden your soul with another crime. Stop
here in your career, restore the voyageur's
daughter to liberty, and here in this deep aid
secret sepulchre resolve to change your mod
of life. Reflect a moment, Hendricks ; ask
yourself if wrong done to a fellow-being wil
bring quietude and happiness.
" Go down !" repeated Hendricks, gruffly.
" Life is sweet to the young," muttered
Jeanjean, sighing.
"1I tell you to go down 1" cried Hendricks,
fiercely.
"If my hands were free, you would be less
insolent, Dick Hendricks !" retorted Jeaujean.
" Fools !" exclaimed Hendricks, addressing
his men, " untie his hands."
Andrew's hands were at liberty in moment.
"Now," added Hendricks, drawing a pistol,
" there is nothing to hinder you from goin'
down that rope. Don't trifle, for I'm busy
to-day, and it-isn't safe to contradict me."'
"If I am to die," said Jeanjean, struggling
to maintain his composure, givee me at least
a quick and decent death."
" Go down, and we'll talk of that when we
have more time !" retorted the captain, mo-
rosely, cocking his pistol.
Jeanjean looked hopelessly up at the damp
roof, to the right, to the left, then down at
the dark abyss, leading he knew not whither,
designed, perhaps, to be his sepulchre.
" Choose, whether you will go down by the
law of gravitation, or by your own muscles,"
said the captain, advancing the muzzle of his
pistol to within a few inches of Andrew's head.
Pathaway beheld this scene with feelings
that.he could scarcely restrain. Once he was,
on the point of bounding from his hiding-
place and hurling the robber ,trapper into the
shaft, but the hand of Nicholas grasping his
arm, kept him back. The figure of the Sho-
shons rested against the abutment as if cut in
relief upon the wall. The hunter could see,
dimly the dusky outlines of his person, fixed
and undemonstrative. ,
Andrew Jeanjean breathed heavily, then
stooping and seizing the rope, began to de.s
send. Captain Dick replaced his pistol with
a grim smile, and- partly drew 'a bowie from
his belt. A demon within him was tempting
hiin to cut the rope. A suspicion of such a
thing appeared to cross the mind of Jeanjean;

- for Pathaway saw his pale, anxious &amp;e turned
i upward an instant toward the light from which
oe was passing, then the pallid countenance
,o sank,.lower and lower till 'it was covered by
the darkness of the abyss. The vibrationsof
the rope as Andrew swung to and fro in his
descent, were visible some time, then, when all
d tension   pon it had Ceased, it was hastily
n drawn ip.
-    "The critter'll be safe there till-he's want-
- ed," muttered Captain Dick.  "There's too
- many sich fellers prowlin' round' the Valley.
o We must put an end to this spin' business, or
the ropes are'twisted that'llhang us. None
s on us will be obleeged to wait till hemp grows if
I sich chaps as NickWhifles and thatyoung vag-
e abond, Pathaway, are allowed to have their way.
" That's true, cap'i, and I've always said
l so," responded one of his followers.
"I wish they were all in there," continued
Hen'dricks, shaking his fl4over .the shaft.
I" Our business will never flo'utish till they are
out of the way. All has gone wrong since
they come to this i-egion. There's Garlsta
has got her head full'of strange notions, and
seems to be bewitched arter this young hunter
in gray. We shall have a company of United
States soldiers on us next, I s'pose."
He drew his hand over his ruled face im-
patiently.
"Then there's Seven-Plumes ; he's not to
be trusted I'm afeard, We might. have ex.
terminated 'em all if his red scoundrels hadn t
give back at the fust fire. If I'd had a half
dozen of my own fellers with me, the thing
would been done.   Come, boys, let's leave
this devil-den and -start. up our game again.
It's a long road that hasn't no turn in't.
Good-by, Jeanjean I" he shouted,' hoatsely,
then retreated with his fellows.
"If your road isn't longer than I think 'tis,
it'll have a turn soon, and a round turn, too,"
muttered Nick, whose feelings required instant
expression. " If I'd my shootin'-iron, I allow
I should drawed a bead on him, but things
isn't allers as we want 'em, though I 's'p se all
works for the best in the Bend.u-You seeas to
be narvous, colonel."
" Impatient, angry, if youwill?     lied
the hunter,.with a logbreath .     rep
The footsteps of Hendricks and his men
rapidly receded.
"There's somethin' in surgery " resxumed
Nick, "a sight in surgery, colone  I as i-
morally sartin the lad's senses woul4 4ome
back to him good's new ; but I's sorry, by
mighty, when  heerd him speak u so    usn-
bla and nat'ral, for if he'd continued ts he was
afore, he wouldn't been in thispesky hole at
all. Now you e quiet, colonel, a sd ''ll
him a surprise as 'there. Strike a 'light, n,
gin., and set that torch agoin5." '
The Shoshion  having relighted the torch
the parties proceeded ft the shaft. Nic%4hi#
ing again enjoined the chief and thlster

A'

I


118         PATHAWAY; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAW.E MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

to silenee, seated himself on a rook with his
leges hanging down into the chasm, and sang
in a voice not entirely musical, a fragment of
Jeaiean's ,song, having first remarked "that
pooty likely he should make a good many
p'ison mistakes."
IiXy sweetheart was a bloomin' flower,
Growing' beside some kind o water ;
I lurked at midnight round her bower,
-And wished, I had the trapper's darter.
Oh, the trapper's darter.!
Oh, the-trapper's darter !"
Nick bent forward and listened, but getting
no response, went on :
" Her eyes was like, two stars agleamin',
Her face was fair, her lips was sweet;
Her smile was alleis. on me beamin',
I knelt, I reckon, at-her feet.
Oh, the trapper's darter !
Oh, the, trapper's darter !"
"Who sings? Who, for Heaven's sake, is
there ?- eried Jeanjean, whose lips surprise at
irst kept mute.
" Nick Whiffesind others, and the best'on't
is We are at your sarvice," replied the trapper.
" Here's the colonel and the Shoshons, and
here'e a rope that I'm going' to fling down to
eu to cerne up on. Look out fort--it's comin'.
Sto  a mius till I look a the fastenin.' All
right i Be keerful and cool, and you'll do it.
I've been dowlthere and know the natur' on't.
But I had a friend--though he uses four legs
instead o' $wro-a friend that stood by me;
though he didn't stan' by me exactly neither,
but went for' help."
The tension on the rope indicated that An.
drew, was, ascending. Pathaway awaited, not
without trepidation, the result. Presently, af-
ter several pauses, Jeanjean appeared at the top
of'the shaft, and was drawn out by his friends.
"'This is indeed 'ungxpected!I' he gasped,
exhibiting strong emotion. 6"I had given up
all hope of rescue, and bewildered and over-
powered by misfortune, was striving to recon-
sile my mind to my fate, when the singing of
Nieholas reached ay ears."
AIt was nothing .nut plain singin', and not
slch as I have done, by no means. You should
'a' heard me'when my voice *as stronger, and
I's more familiar with the gamit and .dimi-
sinmi.quavers. Ididn't git all the words of the
Trappers Darter;right, but I got the dense of
*um, 1 allow, and didn't hurt the rhyme nor
the reason.   How's your head, Andrew ?'
aven'sgedgye since I tried my surger on e."
"Ibave beeninformed of your friendly-office.
I aied .ot tell you, Nick Whiffles, how great
my     tift~a"is,' repliedJeanjean.
"Yo're      htly -indebted to the colonel,'
too. He fo e in the condeinndest diffi-
kilty, endtore the flesh from  his fingers in
di  in'ye out, but come, let us leave this
'pMyehle.. We've been in  t  long; least
wise, -I 'have, for my. tomnich's in 'a mournful
state o' destitution, atid the soUnd o' that run.
. in'water has b   tantalizing' my thirst for a
long "  e'          -

The parties moved toward the outlet.
Reaching the little stream, Nicholas refreshed
himself b  a copious draught-of its cooling
waters. The Shoshone, bearing the torch, led
the way, and in a little while they passed from
beneath the damp and dripping arch to the
open air.
Jeanjean and Nick assuredly felt grateful, for
moisture gathered in theireyes as they turned
their facesto the golden sun.
" I'snever buried alive afore-myself, but my
gran'father, the historian, rode through a ken-
try where the used to bury the live husbands
with the dead wives, and the live wives with
the dead husbands. He didn't stay there on'y
long enough to bait his hoss and make 'a few
memorandums a settin' in his sulky."
The hunter looked at Nick to see if he really
believed in his grandfather, but the trapper
was gazing persistently at vacancy. The Sho-
shoue east the torch into the stream, end the
waters bore it hissing from sight, then spring-
ing lightly from rock to rock, he guided the par-
ties silently and-swiftly from Trapper Valley.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
THE MOUNTAINEER.
The shades of night were darkening the
mountains before the faint and faltering foot-"
steps of the captives admonished Seven-
Plumes that a halt was needful.  He selected
a sheltered spot, and seemed anxious to make
his fair prisoners as comfortable as circum-
stances would permit. He prepared for them
a couch of boughs, spread his own blanket
upon it, and told them to sleep. Both, as
may readily be believed, were too much agi-
tated by the events of the day, and their no-
vel and precarious situation -to entertain for a
moment the idea of slumber. Madge thought
of the gray hunter and Nick ; of the first with
a hope of his coming; of the second, with feel-
ings of sadness and apprehension. She pie-
tured to herself how brave the young man-'
Pathaway-would be on the trail; how skill'
fully he would discover the lightest ressure
of her feet ; how fearlessly he would thread
their winding course ; how generously he
would sacrifice himself, and how heroically he
would bear himself, when, having reached
their lonely and cheerless bivouac, lie should
meet their captor band 'to hand. These, it
was true, were but dreams of fancy that float-
ed through her mind, as she reclined upon the
earth, looking at tthe changeless face of the
Indian, -who had seated himself a short dis-
tance from them, with his gun beside him, and
his swarthy brow resting upon the palm of his
hand.'
Carl6ta was less calm, her countenance indi-
cating varying emotions. Her cheeks, now
white, now red;evidenced a storm within not
easily stilled.

" Night," said Seven-ln  s. is the time
for sleep. Let the white flowers rest."i
"4Talk not of rest, treacherous chief  Cap-
tives cannot sleep. Send us back to 'Cr
lodges, and our sorrows will pass like the
clouds, and sleep will cross the thresholds of
our eyes with steps lighter than the flitting
of a  adow," answered Carldta.
" The Saskatchewan prairies lie along the
river, and they are beautiful,", said the chief.
" The lodge of Seven-Plumes shall be set up
near the best hunting-grounds."
"We are of one people-and you of another,
and it cannot be," answered Carl6ta, with em-
phasis. "Carlvta, the child of the mountains,
would die rather than enter the lodge of an In-
dian chief, to light his fire and cook his meat."
Seven-Plumes composed himself in an atti-
tude of rest, but deigned no reply.
" Speak to him I" said Cardt a to Madge.
"Change his purpose by ingenious appeals to,
his pride and magnanimity."
"'Tis useless; I cannot move him if I
would,-and I again assure you-that I hail this
captivity as light compared with that I should
have suffered from you, had not matters taken
this unexpected turn."
"Would you he the wife of yonder beast 2"4
retorted Carlvta, angrily. -1
" Talk not ofit. I hope for a better fate;
and my greatest-apprehension is, that my un-
lucky star-will again place me in your hands."
With a sharp epithet of reproach, Carldta
turned- her back upon Madge, and tried to t
shake her purpose no more, indulging bitter-
ly in her' own wayward and contradictory
emotions.                              r
The night rolled on. Mildly the moon and
her starry court looked down upon the wil- s
derness. The prairie-dog barked, the wolf a
howled, and the panther shrieked in the dis- i
tance.
The temporary camp was in an open spot at i
-the base of a mountain, shut in on one side by  o
oaks, and on the other by mesquit and other n
shrubbery.                                 c
Made closed her eyes and pretended to   I
sleep, but started at the slightest sound, and t
invariably saw the fixed form of the Indian oc- t
cupying the same place.*                  s
- I'm afraid !" muttered Carl6ta, shivering. g
" It is lonely and so dismal," she added, as if s
speaking to herself. With these words she
softly approached the chief, and with some  p
signs of repugnance seated herself on the v
ground near him, casting ,timid glances from  P
aide 'to side. If her fear was feigned, it was eer- li
tainly a close imitation of nature, and if Seven. w
Plumes was cognizant of it,. he as well as t
Madge was probably deceived if it were not .
closely abodt her, and put herself in an attitude  b
that indicated an intention to sleep. Seven-
Plumes, didnot stir, nor betray in any manner
that he had seen this movement.

Madge observed that Carlbta's dress careless.
]y covered a part of the Indian's gun, but had
no suspicion that it was otherwise than acci-
dental. Madge was now really sleepy. The
fatig es nn  watehings of the.last few daya
hnd worn upon her naturally dlieate frame.
Excitement only, had kept her. from sinning.
A kindl of apathy stole over her. Carlitaand
the chief gradually receded from her -vision ;
a dark screen seemed let down between her
aid surrounding   bj cts.. She Passed from
the outward world of danger and alarm to the
inner one of safety and quietude.
She awoke without knowing why ; awoke
as sleepers often do, *ith a vague thrill of ter-
ror. She glanced at Carl6ta and the chief;
they sat there like two images of stone. :The
moon had waned but little in the heavens, and
she knew that her sleep had been of short du-
ration. She turned her wandering gaze up
the steep ascent of the mountain. Far, far in
the mist of the night, she saw the peaks of the'
eternal ranges,' stern and- cold. , She turned
her regards to the opposite quarter and saw a
slight tremulous motion in the mesquit.
A fox or a hare lias left his covert, she
thought ; and she continued to watch that in-
dication of life, with an interest that -people
sometimes feel in trifles. The agitation drew
nearer the open space. For a few seconids it
ceased ; then uprose from the foliage, a 'figure
grim and eager, and smutched with blood,
Made recognized, with a thrill of horror, in
the sallow and ghastly face, the  features' of
Bill Brace. The discovery paralyzed her. A
superstitious dread fell aupo aher.sensesAwig
bewildering power.
A slight noise alarmed Seven-Plumes, He'
seized his gun, but the hands of Carlsta were
already grasping it. He tried to wrest it from.
ier, but she maintained her hold with deter.
mined tenacity. he had seen Brace, and
knew that he needed, but the delay of a see-
nd, and she gained it for him. Thenext
mo ent the chief was beaten 4own by. the
rushing weight of the nountaineer. But the
Indian was litie and supple,,and 'it was not euls
o retain him in his grasp'; he vas posseed
oo, of great personal strength. He quickly
lipped from beneath Brace, and a fierce stug-
;le followed, of which Madg was a terrified
pectator.
Carldta would willingly have aided the trap-
ier, but the rapid evolutions of the two-pre.
rented her interposition. At leath Seven.
Plumes received another fall, butghded snake.
ike from under his adversary as before, and
Would have been entirely free, had lot the lat.
er grasped his belt and,held him tenaaiously.
Brsce was, much exiausted, and the Indi
rfi ed him sever   yards i hias ,fetorts
)reak his "bold, While' Carl~ta was tting,
seantiue, to place a- weapon in the-,mous.
Madge, seeing the situaten 'offsira

i
'i
,

PATTTAWAY ; , ,OT , THE AMOUNTAIN OUTLAW,:              lla -

I


PATHAWAY ; OR,' THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

it
s,
E
i;
K

sesi-el± k1t#*isg what she did - ran and
euusht the Indian's hunting-knife, which had
fallen to the groundin the-struggle, and gave
itt )iini. ie seized it, severed the belt, and
fled with a shout. Madge also ran, but in an
ogp'site direction. She expected moment-
arily to hear the heavy tread of Brace ; but
heard only the noise of her own flight. To
her aIdplaces Seemed alike, if they sheltered
her- from Carl6ta ; and so she struggled on-
ward, over bush and brake, through rank
gds and tangled mesquit. Never before had
that rugged way been pressed by feetso dainty.-
She Was soon weary, and sat down in a strip of
timber that skirteda small prairie. Above her
was the dim itch of heaven,-studded with the
palS and Melancholy stars; beneath, the dewy.
earth, in the verdure of which reposed the
rattlesnake; to the right and left, stretched
ogt the varied scenery of the north-woods
frequented by wild beasts, prairies traversed,
by he buffalo, valleys where the grizzly bear
nade--his home, and swanips of chaparral
whewe the panther lay hidden by day.
Madge, With ready apprehension, realized.
the- frightful isolation of her situation,; but
delicate and sensitive as she was, the name of
Carl6ta was more fearful than all. The hoot-
ugof an o*l in a tree overhead gave her a
sadden terror ; while the cry of a far-off eats-
monit produced an involuntary tremor. Pre-
sently, she heard the leaping of an animal ; it
came bounding toward her.; she could hear its
feet strike the leaves. She doubted not that
the panther-'- the shriek of Which she had
heard, had scented her steps, and was coming
to devour her. Her blood flowed sloggishly
in her veins; she felt cold and faint. She
thought of making an effort- to escape ; but
what aeed could elude the arrow-like swift-
nets ofan animal so dreaded-what sagacity
thro  hin from the trail ? She sank upon ber
knees and covered her face,'and awaited, with
trembling horror, the coming of the beast,
The sound of leaping dreW nearer and nearer,
and Madge's heart nearly ceased to beat, The
tereble rbature was at hand ; in a moment,
he °Wrd rend her! There was an instant of
su4 tez  agony of expectation.  Too paws
we 'lid uon her, and a convulsive shidder-
$ fdibed over her frame. A great, familiar
voice said,."Bow-wow 1" and Madge cried out
Wi h i kp esible tef:: the dreaded animal
wasti ik'*   write dog Calamity!
T'd a 'srnce of this, faithful creature
ptede     appy revulsion of feeling. Fear
ad dpe   deneyse place to mWore tranquil
emotionS.              1 dThu *mrde l sagacity and fideli-
tyof 'S og, she doibted aot, would be the
me   of restoring hety te those friends who
hA   Sani esbed So tniuoh interest In her wel-
fa'. Had ihe been Well-assured of the safe-'
ty   t Patba  b Skd Nel kWhifiles her conr.
*a    donfldonce would have bee quite re-
stoled

With the dog crouching. beside her, she
waited patiently for the return of day, firm in
the belief that her canine protector would not
desert her.
It was near morning. The shadowy ob-
scurity of twilight dimmed the air and sur-
rounding scenery. Madge had just awakened
from'a refreshing sleep, and was looking around
with a half-conscious, half-bewildered expbs-
sion,- when the dog arose to his feet and as-
sumed a belligerent attitude. She saw his lips
quiver, his eyes light up, his long hair become
erect. Madge followed the direction. of his
threatening eyes, and beheld a spectacle cal-
culated to inspire her with fresh alarm. This
unwelcome apparition was no other than Brace,
the mountaineer, who had approached by an
open way, the long grass muffling the sound of
his steps. His garments were torn and disor-
dered, his head bare, save its natural covering,
which hung matted and stained upon his fore-
head, swarthy cheeks, and tawny neck. His
face, where it was-not bruised and discolored,
had a singularlyghastly sallowness. His eyes
were glassy, and might have expressed vindic-
tiveness, hate, or fear, or all combined. His,
muscular body was thrown forward, and his
weight appeared to rest upon his rifle.
- A faint and smothered cry escaped the young
woman's lips.-
"I've follered - I've found ye, but you
needn't be afeared," said the mountaineer,
speaking slowly, and with evident exertion.
Madge averted her eyes to shut out the gris-
ly figure of Brace.
"Keep the dog-still, gal, and hear what I've
got to say."
The voice of the mountaineer was so husky
that she looked up.
" It's cost me a good 'cal o' trouble to git
here, but I'm glad to see ye afore I give lip."
He paused, then went on:
" I'm goin' under, gal-goin' under. The
fall over the, cliff bruised me terrible.- I
shouldn't been here, if I hadn't struck in the
top of a tree ; the branches saved me from in-
stant death, though I la stunned some time.
Finally,:I come to and clambered down the
tree, swearing' vengeance ag'in the Ingin; for I
ketched a glimpse of him, as he pushed me
over. You can't tell what I suffered fallin' !
I thought of every act of my life afore I struck
the tree. You've no idee, miss, how fast a
crtur can think when he's fallin' to his death.
The book o' my life was open, and I read it
goin' down. But when I found myself alive,
my wrath turned again the Blackfoot. I drag-
ged myself out o' theValley; and then I stag-
gered along the trail arter the traitor. When-
ever I come to a stream, I east myself into it,
and swallered water like a run-down buffaler
I overtook him, 'and would had my revenge, if
it hadn't been for you."
-It was the fear of Carlota inspired'e,"
said Madge.

" I know her and I know you," answered

Brace."
At that moment, Madge perceived Carl6ta
standing behind a bush- at the right of the
mountaineer.                        ,
" Yes, I know ye now," added Brace, in a
low, awed voice. " It wasn't I that done it !
'Twas Cap'n Dick that did the deed. I was
there when they throwed ye in, but I didn't
look at your face-I didn't cake to look #t
your face that night. They said you was beau-
tiful, and the men was clamorm' for ye and git-
tin' mutinous. The cap'n, bad as he was,
didn't want to give ye up ; he wanted ye him-
self, and it was himself or nobody. So lo
keep peace and preserve his authority, hetook
Ypto Black Run on that dreadful night with
Ialf a dozen of his most reckless fellers, and
you know what follered. I little thoughtI
should see ye ag'mn in the land o' the living ;
but you wasn't to die in that way, it 'pears. I-
shouldn't knowed ye if Carl6ta hadn't told
me, for I wasn't familiar with your face. I've
dreamed o' them white arms o' your beatin'
the air more nor once, and 'twas a deed that
has troubled me-you being' a tender gal, and-
*e bearded men that oughter perteet sich.
Cap'n Hendricks couldn't forgit his victim so
easy ; he seed ye at Nick's camp, and- your
face affected him terrible. Your boy-disguise
couldn't pervent him from seem' a strange re-
semblance to the pooty young woman he had
dealt with so cruel. He thought prehaps,"
continued Brace, reflectively, "that you'd say
Yes, when you come to see the water running'
swift and the men ready to do his biddin'."
" She-she has told you this!" exclaimed
Madge. ",She heard the tragedy of Black
Run discussed while disguised as Indian Joe.
She did not, she could not have consented to
my destruction."
"It is of you that I would speak, and not of
her. I wanted to tell ye afore I died that I've
alleys been sorry for being' there and seeing' that
deed. Your forgiveness, perhaps, will'soften
a little the pangs of perdition."a h
"I forgive_ you freely, and as I hope 'God
will forgive my own errors," said Madge.
"Where is yourfirmness and courage, Bill
Brace ?" cried Carl6ta, advancing.
They have flowed away with my blood,
and the savage natur' of the mountaineer
is ebbin' with his life. I'm on the last trail,
Carlota."
Brace tottered as he spoke, and after ay
ing unsteadily from side to side a moment, fell
heavily to the earth.
"It's a rough trail and a long," gasped the
mountaineer.  "Where are you, Car16ta?1
Can't you sata word to a nn who got his
death in your sarvice P?"
t' Poor fello* ! poor fellow !" muttered Car-
16ta, _+
'The trail grows dark! -Where Is the Val-
ley?"S
"i

" He's dying!" said Carldta, solemnly.
"How black, how chilly the Valley is 1"
murmured the outlaw, shuddering.
"'Tis a dark Valley, indeed I" said Carlta,
with a nervous tremor.
"Hark !" cried Brace, starting-up. "I hear
the cap'n's horn and must go." The moun-
taineer fell back, gasped, and was off the trail
forever.
Carl6ta stood beside the body, pale as mar-
ble, and as motionless. The death of one who
had been faithful in her service could not but
affect her.
"Look I" saidMadge, impressively. . "See
how bad men die. Ask, yourself if you are
not the cause of his death ; if you have not
added to his crimes, consequently to the.heavi-
ness of his doom."
" Even such as he cannot die until called
for," returned Carl6ta, " andone is not respqn-
sible for another's deeds."
"It is morning," continued Madge, "and to
me this spot is fearful. I have now a faithful
protector"-pointing to the dog--'" and by his
guidance shall seek those who will care for
me. Will you go,:or remain with your dead
ruffian?"
Carl6ta's eyes flashed with indignation.
"Begone ! she cried, " And may I never-
more behold your face again 1"
"Come, good friend," said Madge, and the
dog sprang up, eager to obey her wishes.
"Guide me to Nick, Calamity ; take me to
Nick."
The animal barked and frisked around her.
Madge.followed him a few steps, then, turning
to Carl6ta, said, in a friendly voice':
" Carl6ta, come with me ; and if I am fortu-
nate enough to find friends, you shall receive
no ill-treatment from them or me."
Carl6ta answered with an impatient wave of
the hand, and Madge reluctantly left her.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
CAiiLOTA iAND MAD(GZ.
A shriek from Carlota arrested the footsteps
of Madge. Running back a few steps, se
saw Seven-Plumes grasping her by the arm,
looking triumphantly into her face.  The dog
wasp ringing forward to attack the Indian ;
but Madge restrained him. He stopped half
way between her and the savage, whom;he
continued to regard insa menacing mnnmer.
c lower of the Mountains," said the war-
rior, with a sudden change of - expression,
"fear not the:ebief of the "laekfeet. He no
harm-he no carry you away."
His voice was soft, and he looked in a
friendly way at-Mudge.
1you give knife-you help Seven-Plumes--
and hiwmemory is good. I you go with him
and be his wife, his heart very gad; but if
the Flower of the Mountains says,
back to my people,' then she go.",  *

PATHAWAY; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

its

121

r1

1
1
1
t    }}E41
k
j}
J


122             PATHAWAT ; OR, THE
"It is much," answered Madge, cunningly,
"to be the wife of a great chief; but my
thoughts and feelings flow another way. I can-
not go with you to the banks of the Saskatch-
ewan.' My heart would pine and be desolate,
if I were there. Chief, I cannot dwell in your
lodge."
"The country is pleasant," said, Seven-
Plumes, persuasively. "Game is abundant,
and the prairies bear many kinds of flowers.
Inthe summer, the sun is very bright'; and in
the winter, the air is pure and clear, and the
furs of the lakes and streams keep cold at a
distance."                      .
"Birds of a kind only mate together.
Seven-Plumes can woo the fairest daughters of
his nation, and they will be proud of the at-
tentions of'so wise a chief."
Seven-Plumes was silent a moment., His
voice was melancholy when he spoke again.
"Your words fill the heart of the red-man'
with sorrow," he said; "but you gave him
liberty, and he gives you the same. But this
pale girl"-he pointed to Carl6ta, and his
tones were less friendly-"-shall march to the
hunting-grounds of the Blackfoot."'
"Chief, use your power gently," lemon-_
strated Madge. " Her skin is not the color of
yours, and sehe will never be happy in your
lodge."
Carlota glanced earnestly at her Fair inter-
cessor.
"Flower of theMountains, talk not to the
Blackfoot !, Your voice is soft, but it cannot
prevail: the girl of the Valley goes with me.
The way is long, and the bright sun tells
Seven-Plumes to depart. .'There will be many
feet on his trail before night ; but he cares not,
for he has the cunning of the beaver."
" Chief, I assisted you to escape-hear me
when I -peak for the girl of the Valley,"'
urged .Madge.
" This palewoman no friend to you," an-
swered Seven-Plumes. 4"Her heart very bit-
ter, and her eyes dart fire at you. Your way
is there"--he pointed as he spoke--"go in
peace ."
" The dog i the dogi1" exclaimed Carl&amp;ta'
stretching ler hand earnestly toward Ca-
lamity.
The chief drew his knife from his belt, and.
tightening his grasp upon her arm, held it to
her. breast.    .
" Let the dog come, and the girl of the Val-
ley dies *
4 stern, fierce light gleamed from the eyes
of Seven-Plumes eFor a moment, the ta-
bleau was striking in the extreme. .The grim,
threatening figure of the In dian, the irm yet
sullen face of Carl6ta, and te earnest, appre-
hensive, and imploring expression of Madge-
all ,conspired to render the. scene an lncom-
mon one. The dog gazed inquiringly at his
mistress.     .
"Be quiet, sir -be quiet! "commanded

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.
Madge ; and Calamity maintained his neutral
position..
The young woman glided forward and took
the hand of Seven-Plumes.
"Do not harm her, chief!" she cried ; "for
she acts but in accordance with the nature the*
Great Spirit has given her, when she refuses
to accompany you. Be brave, be generous!
and for the-good service I have rendered you,
giveme her freedom. I ask it as a reward I"
" The woman of the Valley hates you," re-
plied Seven-Plumes, scanning the features of
Madge with curiosity.
" I care not-I care not ! I would save her
from a fate she so much dreads. Our ways
will be different, and she will have no power
to do me wrong."
The Indian looked at Carldta, then at
Madge ; and it was evident that his purpose
wavered.
" You yield -- you yield ! I thank you,
chief. Carlota, he gives you freedom !"
Carl6ta did not speak ; her bosom was heav-
ing with agitation, and her eyes were down-
cast.
" The Flower of the Mountains has asked
much ; but the chief of the Blackfeet gives it.
The girl of the Valley is free ; the soft voice
has prevailed."
There was a conflict in, the breast of the
Indian: his better nature struggling with his'
baser.
"Seven-Plumes will go to his young men
with heaviness," he added ; " but he will
smooth his face and deceive their eyes, so that
they shall not know the Blackfoot has been
sad. .Go! Seven-Plumes is a warrior."
" Thanks, brave chief! Your name shall be
mentioned with honor among the pale-faces,"
answered Madge, with fervor.
Seven-Plumes turned on his heel and walked
away.
Carl6ta stood a moment irresolute, trem-
bling and agitated-then cast herself into the
arms of Madge, sobbing. Hot tears -coursed
down her cheeks. Madge put her arms around
her, and held her in a gentle embrace. She
was silent at first, and allowed the pent-up
feelings ,of the girl to exhaust their violence
in weeping,
She gradually dried her tears, and disen-
gaged herself from the arms of Madge.
" Let us go," she said, in a low voice.
" Whither ?" Madge asked.
" To the Valley. Let us hasten," Carldta
answered, hurriedly..
"No-not there-not there !" cried Madge.
" Calm your fears. TheValley shall be to ou
as all other places , you shall pass through it
harmless. We must hurry to Nick Whiffiles
he is starving. I am full of remorse !"
.Madge hesitated no longer; she'held out-
her hand to Carl6ta.
" Heaven be praised! You no longer hate
me !" she said.

I

j

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                          123
"You have nothing to fear from me. But clamored for me, as the famished wolf for its
speak not of him. -Let the name of Pathaway  victim !" exclaimed Madge.
remain unmentioned between us. Steel, when  " You-do me injustice ! Carluta never sank
it is heated, yields to the blows of the ham- so low as to cater to the appetites of rude and
mer; but  when it hardens, it is unyielding, lawless men. I shuddered when I heard the
and returns to its former unimpressibility," tale. I would have saved you and spared you
Carl6ta replied.                         the horror of Black Rook. But even that was
Even as she spoke, shame, disappointment, better than what might have happened. The
flushed her cheek.                        authority of Hendricks was never in such peril
" I forego vindictiveness and revenge," she as then. He loved you-at least, as much as
went on ; "but I cannot forget my disappoint- his hard, stern nature would allow. He was
meant. Prudence," she added, with trembling angry that his followers should presume to one
voice, "admonishes us that there is a point that he had set apart for himself; that he linl
we must not approach.".                  encountered much danger for ; that he had
"You refer to the gray hunter as if he were brought with great peril from the distant mis-
much to me and nothing to you. Who knows sion."
what emotions the fair and fearless girl of  "I remember-it with horror ; the midnight
Trapper Valley may have awakened in his attack ; the clashing of steel; the short and
breast ?"--                              sanguinary struggle ; the burning of the mis-
Madge uttered these words in a faltering sion-house ; the first moments of captivity ;
voice, as if her heart reproached her tongue the long and hurried march ; the arrivalat the
for words the hollowness of which none real- Valley ; the- proposals of the fearful man,
ized more than she.                       Hendricks ; the eyes of the men fixed upon
" No 1more, girlI" she said, plaintiyely. me with such dreadful meaning ;.the weary days
"You but deepen the wound you would heal. of imprisonment ; the importunities of the
Disguise it not-attempt it not-you and the outlaw-leader; his dark hints, and finally, the
hunter in grayhave met before, at Red River secret night-march, and the scene at Black
settlement, or some of the settlements on the Rock. Then came resuscitation following my
Columbia. You will not-you cannot deny   rescue by Nick, with a haunting terror of hall-.
it !"                                     consciousness, and the slow, dubious recog-
Madge was confused-neither denying nor nition of my situation. But anon the honest
assenting to this.    '   -              face of the trapper assured me., The sound of
"I see it in your conscious cheeks. Tell his voice gave me confidence... What a revnl-
me where."                               sion came ! How the consciousness of security
"At the mission, near Astoria," returned thrilled my frame. You cannot comprehend
Madge, reluctantly.                      the emotions of that moment. It appeared to
Carlsta breathed hard, and pressed her hand me that the hand of Providence had interposed.
convulsively to her heart.        ,      My tears fell on the hands of my benefactor.
"I saw him almost daily," Madge continued, He has proved himself worthy the full mea-
"until the mission was destroyed by wicked sure of my gratitude. To prevent discovery
and abandoned men. At the time of that ter- and its consequences, I threw aside the gar-
rible visitation, he was away. We had parted, ments of my sex, and become the boy Sebas-
as we believed, forever."                tian. I was most gently cared for by Nicholas.
"I comprehend," said Carl6ta, quickly. He took pride and pleasure in me, and great
"You differed, doubtless, on religious mat- indeed is the debt I owe him. He sent a mes-
ters. You believed, perhaps, that you could senger to the mission, but it was deserted, and
be the means of, converting savages ; and, my friends were scattered, he knew not-where.
while young and beautiful, had sufficient cour- It was the trapping season, and Nick was busy
age and virtue to sever yourself from the great with his traps.  became his constant, coin-
world, to lead a life of privation and useful- panion. He taught me the use of the rifle and
ness. He told his love; and you, exulting in the bow, and never was so happy as when Iex-
your self-denial, sand rapt with visionary  hibited aptness and skill. Months passed on,
dreams, cast the chalice of happiness to the and but or the remembrance of-friends, and a
ground. The world had no more to offer him, continual fear of detection by .Hendricks,
and he fled to the northern trapping-grounds, should have been tolerably reconciled to my
hoping in peril and excitement to forget the .wandering life. The very thought of the dark
cause of his unhappiness. Bitterly has your mountaineer made me tremble. . Imagine, if
folly been punished. Little did you imagine you can, the feelings that agitated me when I
that the boon he asked so humbly was ,to be saw the robber-captain enter the camp of
forced from you by the rough hand of the Nick Whiffles, disguised as a lost, forlorn, and
mountaineer."                       .-   starving trapper. I could with the greatest
The two girls moved onward, side by side, difficulty command my emotions. ,Memory,
both much affected.                      too, it would seem, was busy in his own brain,
"You knew, then, that I was dragged hither for the ruffian-"
-that I was a captive-that those wild men  ,"Call him not a ruffian !" cried Carl6t,

I.


124        PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

I(

grasping Madge by the wrist. " He is _
Carl6tamade this announcement as if it co
her indescribable pain.
"Itceannot be!I I will not believe it !" e:
claimed Madge, with an involuntary shiver.
"I was educated at Red River settlement
added Carl6ta ; " that is, I learned to read an
write. The Captain of the Mountaineers ha
charge of me. He oame occasionally to si
me.-to watch my growth and development.
was taught'to call him father. He took m
from the s ettlement when quite young, an
brought me -to the Valley, where gradually
forgot my homesickness, and -became accui
tomed to the lawless manners of the mountain
eers, and gained an ascendency over them
Young natures are impressible and ready t
take on the colors and shapes around them
Is it singular, then, that I should have learns
to tolerate crime and to regard the coununit
of which I was a member as 'existing; outside
the laws and usages of civilized society
loved - authority ; I was imperious; and th
power to swaf atid command the lawless trap
pers pleased my vanity and overcame my
serupes." I became what you see me, but I am
not the depraved being that you have believed.
My influence has always been exerted against
acts of cruelty. If dark deeds havebeen com-
mitted, they were perpetrated without my
knowledge and sanction."       t      "
" The frenehman's daughter ?" said Madge,
inquiringly.
"Owesl her safety, thus far, to the outlaw's
daughter," replied Carlota. "On one pretext
aid another, I have kept her from outrage-in-
tending, when I could do so with safety, to give
her her liberty. My will is not absolute at the
Valley. . There are certain points with which
it is dangerous to meddle."
"You relieve my mind of a terrible bur--
den," answered Madge. " For one like you
there is still hope. You are not, you cannot
be, entirely lost to goodness and truth. The
world must yet have a path that your feet can
tread."
"Too late!I too late !" sobbed Carlota..
Do you not doubt the claims of this man
flendrieks ?" interrogated Madge.
"Of late," replied the girl) g' his language
has been snoh as a parent does not address to
a child. I have trembled--I have doubted.
I have treated him as I thought my duty, and
behold in him a true and-only friend. Ihave
tried to reverence and love him; but the
effort, in all essential realities, has failed. As
- developed into womanhood, his manner
changed  but I have gained an ascendancy
ever his mind that he cannot entirely shake
off!"    -.'
She stopped; -then, with evident effort, con-.
tinued:
"Accident brought me in contact with the
young hunter, and a new and-powerful feeling

ny grew into existence. I loved himm This con-
fession gives inc pain, but I am forced to make
at it. I assisted him to escape;- I guided him
from the Valley. The history of Indian Joe
x- is known to you. You are surprised to hear
me express myself so intelligibly, but' I know
," what the world is ; for my reputed father has
d procured me books from    the settlement,
id which I have read with avidity, and treasured
ee with care."
I    Madge pressed Carl6ta's arm sympatheti-
es cally.
Ld   " I no longer fear you," she said. " I see
I in you a sister, exposed to temptation, shaken,
s. but not entirely fallen. Bury the past: Fly
, with me to the'settlements, leaving behind all
a. that now degrades you-bad men, bad exam.
o pies,demoralizing associations, and habits that
detract from your womanhood. Cease to think
4 of Pathawy; I say it for your good, ad not
y -to wound."
e    "'Twas a silly dream !" returned Carl6ta,
I bitterly. "I cast from me the vainhope--I
e abandon it forever."an
-    "'Tis best so. If there was hope, I would
.tell you. Your fearless nature excited his ad-
miration, but your associations shock him.
Pardon, pardon me, Carldta ; I speak not sel-
fishly, but as a true, true friend. He is noble ;
he is brave ; he is good. I have watched him
day-by day. If, as the boy Sebastian, I suf-
fered shame and embarrassment, it was not_
without some reward. I was near him, and
once I saved him."-
- 'What happiness !" murmured Carlota.
" I bear this wound forhie," resumed
Madge; "and my deportment, I trust,uhas
been such during our late singular companion-
ship, that I shal have nothing to remember
with regret. I will not referparticularly  to
th4 unexpectedness of his appearance, and the
thrilling circumstances -under which we met.
And now, Carldta, I have done. The name of-
the gray hunter shall not again, in your hear--
ing, pass the portals of my lipa, to give you
pain.'m                   p,     v
A slight tremor shook the person of-Carl ta.
Presently, she grew calm-. They ollowed the
guidance of the dog, and conversed in a friend-
ly way; but the name of Pathaway was spoken
no more.-.
CHAPTER XXXVIIL
FINALE.
It was near the middle of the afternoon
when Madge and Carldta neared Trapper Val-
ley. They had made what speed they could ;
but were necessarily faint fromlong fasting, and
wearied by toiling over the rough and some-
times-itiaewy      The, thought of, the sup-
posed danger of Nick *asa sufficient incentive
to urge them onward.
" Trapper Valley is at the right," said Car-
ldta.. " We will descend to it by a passage

V.
i
r

known only to Hendricks and a few of his
trusty followers."'
Made trembled.
"Shrink riot," added Carl6ta; "I will screen
you from harm. Even Hendricks shall respect
you, if we meet him, and yield to my present
mood. Tread carefully, and grasp firmly the
bushes as you go down; for the descent is
steep, and perilous to careless feet."
Carluta approached a spot where the Valley
fell off abruptly. To a casual eye there was
no practicable method of descending. Put-
ping aside a mass of vines, the girl of the
mountains unmasked a deep gulch --which,
starting several yards from the sharp angle of
the declivity, offered a pathway far less dan-
gerous, though attended with sufficient diffi-
culty to require all the strength and firmneps
of Madge ; but imitating the example of her
conductresi, she finally conquered the obsta-
cles before her, 'reaching the Valley with
bruised feet and lacerated hands.'
" Trapper-Trace," said Carl6ta,, is they
paused to breathe a moment, pointing to the
east," is in that direction.. The Boiling Spring
and the Mountain Gate are to the west." ,
Carl6ta hurried forward and soon entered a
wood. I~n a short time they came to a spot
where the ground was trodden hard bythe
fect of a horse, while  the grass was eaten to
the earth, and the, foliage cropped closely.
Made immediately recalled the peril of 1.ort-
neuf. 'Carluta perceived the agitation conse-
uent upon this discovery..aMadge turned
her pale face on her guide with an expression
that could not be misunderstood.
"I knew it not! I knew it not!" said Car-
lta, with a flush of anger. "'Twas a wanton
act, and committed without my knowledge.
Brace confessed it to me last night, when he
perceived that his end was near."
"It was cruel, cruel!" said Madge.
" They are -wretches !" cried Carl6ta, indig-
nantly. "Poor Portneuf! he shall have his
daughter.    -
The girl of the Valley walked onward, with
strong displeasure depicted upon her counte-
nance.   eA sudden cry from her caused Madge
to look up. A short distance from them stood
a grizzly bear upon his hind feet.
"A bear ! a bear !" exclaimed Carl6ta. "Of
all wild animals, I hold the bear in the great-
est dread."       -1
Madge did not retreat ; but placin? herself
before Carl6ta, who shrank trembling from
the beast, regarded it earnestly. She imagined
she could see some resemblance in the' animal
to the tame bear of the Shoshone.-
" This creature does not appear to be fero-
rious," she said. " I believe we have nothing
to fear from it."
"But he obstructs our passage-how can
we reach Nick ?' You feared me yesterday,
more than you seem    to fear this savage:
beast."

I.

s
L
1
i
1
v   1
I
i
k r
ri4
G
i
;r'
4
3         .
r' =
!fi
y'_
J
f'
r
h
i
, t'
4
r     r

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE)

MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.                    125
"A thousand times more I Remain quiet
land observe the animal."
dWoman of the 'Rock," said the bear, "the
eyes of the Shoshon4 are glad to see you."
" What ! does the creature talk ?"
"Listen," replied Madge.
"A cloud hangs over the dwelling of the
Thunder-Spirit," resumed the bear. "It is
black and heavy, and charged with fire and
smoke. The lightning will art from east to
west and from north to south. The Valley
will be shaken, and the war-cry ofIthe She-
shone shall roll through it."
The bearskin sank to the ground, and the
well-known feature of Multnomah gladdened
the eyes of Madge. Unslinging the short rile
that was fastened at his side,.he swung it over
his head, and .shouted the war-whoop of his
people. Instantly a hundred voices answered
the. signal from rock and tree and bush:
every covert had a cry. Then there was a
rattling volley from rifles, carbines, and pis-
tols.
"My warriors are here. Igo to lead them
against the bad pale-faces of the Valley," said
the Shoshone.
Multnomah bounded from the spot, and
was soon heard cheering his, warriors to the
fight, leaving Carluta and Madge surprised and
bewildered.
The combat went on at different quarters,
but came nearer and nearer.
" I-hear Hendricks," whispered Carluta.
"He is raging and fighting like, a lion "
"Heaven help the right!" urmuredMadge.
Several bullets dropped near them. Ca-
lamity walked, growling, around his mistress;
and presently the dog Smuggler came bound-
ing to her side with strong demonstrations of
o. The mountaineers are losing ground,"
said Carl6ta. "The conflict comes this way."
"Let us conceal ourselves," suggested Madge.
"For my own safety I care not ; but you I
will shield to the extent of my power."
The two young women were deliberating
which way to -fly, when Hendricks, panting,
covered with ,dust, grim  with powder and
smoke, and bleeding from several wounds, ap-
peared. The sight of Madge and Carldta was
evidently unexpected. He gazed wildly frem
one to the other.
"Traitress!" he exclaimed, fixing his flash-
ing eyes upon-Carldta; "you have, betrayed
us. The Shoshone devils swarm the Valley;
and it goes hard with our men, who are pushed
on every side."
In his right hand the robber'-eaptain held a
pistol, which trembled, as if with impatience,
in his nervous grasp.;
" Say what you will, Richard Hendrieks-
ou cannot wound me more. There is that
yBch rankles deeper, here"-she laid her
hand on her bosom-" than istol-ballor steel
an penetrate. But spare this girl."

1


PATHiAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.

Hendricks turned his fierce eyes upon
"   ho are you ?" he demanded, gruffly.
Madge put back her hair, giving the moun-
taineer a full view of her features.
" Look at me, miscreant, and recall the face
of Una, of the Old Mission!"
The outlaw recoiled, and a sickly pallor
overspread his visage.'
".Do the dead come back?" he muttered.
"Away I away !--come'not too near !"
For an instant the shouts and the clamor of
battle fell unheeded upon Hendrick's ear. In
spirit he was at Black Rock, and saw the light-
ed torches, the pale,,pleading face, and white
arms waving in the air.
"This is a foul lie I" he said, presently. "It
is only a resemblance--a terrible similitude of
wha, was, but will never again be. Begone,
witch 1 You unnerve an arm that must must
wave the longest ahd bloodiest in the fight."
A olear voice rang through the wood.
Madge's heart leaped with hope.
Give in-give up, you white renegades,
or I'll make a p'ison diffikilty among ye l"
It was Nick Whiffles, surely. No one who
had heard them could mistake those tones.
"The spyin' scoundrel 1" 'growled Hend-
ricks.  "But-I'll soon meet him, wounded as
I am, and the critter-shall feel that mine is 'no
feeble,,arm. My men give back. CowardsI,
cowards! they miss my voice ina moment.
At them, boys--at them !"
The mountaineer shouted the concluding or-
der with startling vehemence. He pointed his
pistol at Carl6ta.
"Father-"
" I am not your father !" interrupted the
outlaw, with bitter energy. " That for her who
betrays me!"
He discharged the weapon, and Carl6ta
sank slowly upon the breast of Madge.
" Oh, Carlota, Carl6ta, lie has killed you !"
shrieked Madge. Then to the mountaineer :
" Know, base man, that this unfortunate girl
has been true to you and your men. We have
but recently escaped from the captivity of
Seven-Pluines, and were as much amazed at
this attack as you could have been."
Hendricka darted an inquiring look at Car-
l6ta.
" She speaks truly," murmured the latter,
faintly. "I die guiltless of that with which
you charge me."
At that moment the outlaws were seen fly-
ing in various directions. Hendricks called
loudly upon- thein to return, but they were
deaf alike to threats and appeals.'
" You'd oughter run in that way, I allow,
long ago, by mighty ," cried Whiffles ; and im-
mnediatel after, the report of his rifle was
heard. The mountaineer stood .irresolute,
looking from' Carl6ta to Madge,- and from
Madge to Qarl6ta. Disappointment, rage, re-
morse, with lingering tenderness-for the girl
Carldta, held him in suspense.

The savage warriors rolled ons after the re-
treating foe. There was an incessant explo-
sion of fire-arms, and the whoops of the red vie.
tors shook the forest..-
A manly figure sprang between Hendricks
and the girls. It was Pathaway. A faint cry
front the dying Carl6ta attested the sincerity
of her love, and the power that the young man
unconsciously exerted over her.
"'Tis he! 'tie he!" she gasped, in tones
scarcely audible.
The gray hunter's arm was raised--a pis-
tol was fired. Hendricks stood motionless a
few seconds, then fell to the ground like an
oak, the last fibre of which has- been severed
by the unspairing axe.,
by Carlota," he articulated, painfully, " you
are avenged. Dick Hendricks has fought his
last battle with red man or white. It is all
over-clean played out, life is. I am off for
darkness in double quick time. A greater
Captain than I gives the order. I have lived
recklessly, and I'll die so. , No cant, no senti-
mental whinin' for Dick Hendricks."
The agony of his death-wound choked his
utterance for an instant.
" Carl6ta-," lie added, anon, " we shall go
together. But :Pm sorry I raised my hand
ag'in ye. I took  are of ye, and loved ye;
but you was no darter o' mine. I night done
better by ye, but the impulse to do it wasn't
born in me. Good-good--by, gal! - Good-
by, world, and all that's in it. 'Tis too-too
late for sorrow-too-too late for - for-",
The outlaw's head sank low.upon the turf, and
he added, feebly, "for vengeance !" expressing
his last thought with his last breath.
Carlsta stretched out-her hand to Pathaway.
He knelt beside her, and took it in his own.
She gazed at -hum earnestly. A calm, almost
happy expression lighted - up her features.
She did not speak-she could not, but a smile
of inexpressible meaning flitted faintly across
her lips. Her eyes fixed, and the spirit of Oar-
l6ta passed from its fair tenement.
No additional light was ever thrown upon
her parentage and history. Her grave was
hollowed in the Valley, and Madge shed tears
upon it-which was the only tribute paid by
affection.
The first thought of Porneuf and Jeanjean,
when the outlaws fled, was to look. for Ninon.
The search was successful, and she kvas restored
unharmed to both father and lover. It was a
joyful occasion for those in whom the reader
is interested, though the melancholy fate of
Carl6ta affected the-spirits of Madge for a long
time.
On the following day, a happy party set out
for the nearest settlement.  Pathaway no
longer called the young woman Madge, but
Una, for there had beena full explanation of
those matters and mysteries already under-
stood by the reader ; and thus the young man
recovered the woman that he had believed lost
to him forever.

126

s

7

t

I

I

PATHAWAY ; OR, THE MOUNTAIN OUTLAWS.    127

r

"The p'isonest.diffikilties come to an eend
at last," moralized Nik. "I've had my share
of 'em,. I allow ; but alters come out right in
the course of time. Come on, Humbug, for
you was a humbug, little 'un, all the time you
ywas a boy-and keep closer to uncle Nick.
There'll be a weddin', I s'pose, down in the-
clearin's. There allers is weddin's when boys
and gals git together. But there's been no
wedding's for me. Oh Lord, no ! We shall all
be in the p'ison newspapers arter this comes
off, I s'pose," quoth Nick, musingly. "No
"         way to stop the papers from printin' things,
is there, Colonel? Jes' so;I thought not.
Look out, Calamity! Don't snub Smuggler
in that way. Well, Shoshon"-to Muitno-
mah, who made one of the party, "notstant-
nin' the difference in white and red natur', I
must say that you're one to be depended on.
I never see ding ins fight better nor your'n,
when we whipped them pesky free-trapper
robber. There won't be so many traps took,
nor lives neither, carter this. Redskin, I thank
nye hearty and kind, and if the good will of
Nick Whifles is worth anything, you're wel-
come to it. Andrew Jeanjean, my a ar  can't
you sing us the 'Traper's Darter?' No dili-
kilty about your head, eh?   No blushin'
there, Nanny, for he couldn't forgit ye when
he'd forgot everything else, his wits not ex-
cepted. He's been true to ye in his senses
and out, under ground andatop on't. I'll
sing you a varse that he used to sing- about
your voice, and eyes, and smiles, and sich,
when I'm clear on the high notes. Colonel,
you're rather close to my boy. Talkie ' it all
over, I allow.- Sparrer- legs-beg your par-
don," said Nick, apologetically, " ga, I mean,
it rejoices my heart to see you look so bright
and happy."
a Made gave her hand to Nick.

" It's a right small hand and a good one
for a young man to own," said Nick, admir-
ingly.  " Take good care on, her, Colonel.
She's as dear to me as my rifle, and my dogs,
and the perairies, and the air that I love.
Keep every diffikilty from -her pooty head,
and when you're happy in- the distant clear-
ins', as I know you will be, sometimes think
o' Nick Whiffiles, the old trapper of the Nor'-
west."
He kissed the little hand, andsighed as he
relinquished it.
" Are you happy, Nicholas ?" asked Madge.
There was a slight quivering of the trap-
r's lis.
"Therera a little diffikilty here," he said,
laying his finger upon ,his heart; "but it
won't last forever. Oh Lord, no 1"
Nick' was absent-minded and sad, a short
time ; but brightening up, presently, told sto-
ries of his grandfather and other members of
the Whiffles' family, in his ugual whimsical
manner.
" I hope they'll be happy," said the trap-
per; the day after the ,marriage, or rather
double marriage, for Ninon and Jeanjean were
united at the same time, "and that there'll
never be any condemned little diffikilties
atween 'em. Ishall miss the little'un wound-
edly. And the dogs, too, for that matter, for
Sebastian understood the natur' o' dogs and
animiles, and was kind to 'em, as he was to
everything else. And now, Nick Whiffles,"
he added, addressing himself, "go back ag'in
to the great Trappin' Grounds of the Nor'-
west, for the air is good there and suits one
better nor it does here. The clearin's-won't
do for Nick Whiffies. Oh Lord, no !"
Before daylight the next morning, Nick and
the Shoshone were on their way to the North-
ern Trapping-Grounds.


  
             
         
       
   
