
    ----CITATION----
        Barrington, F. Clinton. Kate Wynward; or, The Wanderer of the Sea. .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7457
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Kate Wynward; or, The wanderer of the sea. 
            
               43K . .  .z z4 . a  J  L

pV                t
KATE WYNARD
OR, THE
D                  TDL
A STORY OF RIVER, MAIN AND OCEAN.
B                      "
BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY F. GLEASON,
AT THE FLAG OF OUR - UNION OFFICE,
MUSEUM BUILDING,, TREVONT STREET.
18 51.
Entered according to Abt of Congress, in the year 1851, by F. Gleason, in the CrVe Ojice of th~e
District Court of Massachusetts.

4  [

;
; .
I
.,
t
f
5
1
t
{


PUBLIsHEa's No'r.-The following Novellette was originally published in Ti FLAG OF OUR
UNION, and is but one among the many deeply interesting productions emanating from that source.
The FLAG has attained to a circulation unrivalled in newspaper literature ; its contributors form a corps
if the finest talent in the land, and its romances, tales, and poetical gems are of aiigh order, and such
enrich the columns of no other publiction.
The following is the Prospectus of the Flag:
The Best Miscellaneous Paper in the World is
A Literary and Miscellaneous Family Journal, containing         News, Wit, Humor,
and Romance-independent of Party or ect.
PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY, BY
F. GLEASON, MY.useum Building, Tremont St., Boston,
S. FRENCH, 151 Nassau, corner of Spruce street, New York,
A. WINCH, corner Third and Chestnut streets, Philadelphia,
H. TAYLOR, North street, Baltimore,
EDWARDS &amp; Co., 115 Main street, Cincinnati,
E. K. WOODWARD, corner 5th and Chesnut streets, St. Louis.
Printed with new type throughout, manufactured expressly for that journal, with a superb heading,
on the finest of paper, and in a style unequalled in this or any other country.
It is running over with anecdotes, adventures, exciting stories, prize tales, wit and humor, sprinklings
of fun and wisdom, and the well-digested news of the day, both foreign and domestic ; and with great
editorial care, and the employment of the best writers that money can procure, it is emphatically, A
GREAT PAPER..
It contains an average of TwENTr-FIVE COLUMNS OF ORIGINAL MATTER each week, of the choicest
character, besides the CREAM of all the general intelligence of the times, so carefully condensed as to'
embrace, in one paper, the matter that would fill half a dozen ordinary sheets. With a circulation
UNEQU ALLED BY ANY OTHER PAPER, the publisher is enabled to make large outlays upon
the FLAG OF OUR UNION, and to outstrip all competitors in liberality.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.{
1 subscriber one year,  -   -    -   $2 00     8 subscribers one year,  -    -    11 00
3    "     '    "     -    -    -    500     16    "      "    "      -     -    20 00
4    '                           -    6 00
INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Postmasters, or any who will go by the above terms, may become agents, and may make handsome
profits-or they may induce some of their friends to club together, and get their papers cheap. No
subscriptions taken for less than six mouths.
Those in'the country who wish to become subscribers to the ' FLAG,' by enclosing the amount of sub-
scription in a letter (post paid), to either of the above places, may depend upon receiving their paper
regularly every week, and in due time.
The 'FLAG ' may also be obtained at all the Periodical Depots in the United States, and of Newsmen,
at FOUR OtNTS per copy.                                     F. GLEASON, PROPRIETOa.

a

K ATE WYEYARD.

CHAPTER I.

r
r-
kl

Charles River and its belongings. A venere
Its good  old host and 'hostess.   A  yout
A colloquy, of which our hero is the subject
protege.
HE little riverCharles, although but a few
miles in length, and not navigable two
leagues for craft of any tonnage; possesses, never-
theless, an importance that gives it fame and name
over every other river in New England. Upon
its banks was fought the battle of Breed's Hill,
which eminence now swells green and stately
from its waters, crowned with the granite shaft
that will stand an eternal altar to heaven of the
gratitude of a nation of freemen. Upon its
classic shores stand the time-worn edifices of,
Harvard University, whose students for two
centuries have walked by its limpid waves in
the shade of its venerable groves. At its mouth
are two noble cities, one of which is memorable
for the conflagration in which it was wrapped
while the thunders of Bunker Hill were shaking
its streets ; and the other is the metropolis of
New England, the home of arts and of letters,
the city of merchant princes, of poets and his-
torians-Boston!1
In selecting, therefore,}the shores of Charles
river upon which to l y ie opening scenes of

able ruin.   The inn and its frequenters.--
hful aspirant for learning - and     honorS.--
t. An interesting reminiscence of our youthful
our story, we are making choice of no mean
locality. If the reader will take the trouble to
glance at the map, he will see that in ascending
this river, after leaving Boston, with its thou-
sand masts and hundred towers, on the left, and
Charlestown and Bunker Hill on the right, with
not a mile's breadth between, the river bends to
the south and west, and begins to penetrate the
champaign country that lies about Boston, at
Lechmere's Point, on the main. Before *e
ascend, however, so far, which is less than a
league from its mouth, we have to pass beneath
several noble bridges which span it, unitinghe
peninsula of Boston with the main land. Leav-
ing Lechmere's Point on the right, the voyager
will find himself sailing through a level matsb,
across which the river, lessened abruptly to a
narrow stream, sluggishly winds in many a ser-
pentine course. After passing Cambridge it
stretches off southwardly and flows amid green
fields, winding about the bases of pleasant hfs,
meandering amid groves and reflecting updO its
placid breast many a villa, farm-house an'd' ot-


KATE WYNYARD.

ta
al
re
lo
B
fa
a 
tb
ti
t
t
f
t
g
t
t

ge. After a few miles it becomes narrowed that grazed there, or the mowers in harvest from
most to the span of a canal, but without its the noonday sun.  On the same bank of the
gularity, and wanders through every scene- of river with the ruin, there was quite a park-land,
veliness that lies among the bills and vales of the trees growing th'ck by the stream and retir-
rookline, sometimes lingering in a glen as if it ing till they revealed in their bosom a handsome
in would turn itself into a lake ; then, gliding villa, situated about four hundred yards from
way from   its temporary imprisonment, go the water side. This park was well kept, and
roadening away, as if it would expand itself to surrounded on three sides by a wall of gray
he dimensions of its mouth ; but soon after, stone ; but on the side of the Charles it was
aught between two wooded ridges, it submits to open and freely accessible, and benches of stone
heir embrace and flows subdued and deep till placed upon its borders showed that the bank
t opens again into the wider landscape, finally was a favorite resort for those who dwelt in the
o lose itself far south of Medway, into the villa.  There was a path, too, from these stone
mountain head from which it springs.        seats up the, steep side of the rocky cliff-to the
A  river, short though its course may be, ruin which nearly overhung the place where the _
rhich goes winding through such varied scenes, seats were. To the south of the cliff on the
aust pass on'its banks every variety of habita- side opposite to that where stood the benches,
ion, from the stately country seat of the retired. the ground was wilder and evidently not kept
gentleman, with its shorn lawn approaching its for any other purpose than for the wood which
wave like a carpet, to the cot of the wood-cutter, grew thickly, save near the water-side, where a
he laboring man, the humble widow. In some cart road ran leading to a village of a dozen
places garden walls were washed by it, and in houses that was situated half a mile to the south
others, graveyards with their marble homes of of the cliff.  This road from the village did not
he dead.                                   terminate at the cliff, but here turning aside
At one point the river was met by a rocky took a westerly direction and went entirely
bluff forty feet in height, upon the top of which around the estate and struck the river again.be-
was the ruins of an old stone church, in which low it, and then following the stream three quar-
for threescore years before the Revolution the ters of a mile in front of several farm houses,-
services of the Church of England, had been entered, and was lost in, the turnpike which
heard, but which was silenced by the roar of leads to Cambridge.
cannon, and the church partly destroyed by    The cartway which led from the ruin south-
those zealots who would have nothing that was wardly towards the hamlet, wound part of the
associated with England left in the land which way by the water and part of the way through
was struggling against its tyranny.  This ruin the natural forest.  On the road, a quarter of a
had been subsequently made use of from time to mile from the ruin, and half way to the village,
time, as a mill, a magazine, for which its vaults was a small inn, which was kept as such even
were well fitted, and even for a prison during during the time of the revolutionary war; and
the last war.                               there was a tradition that Washington had once
At the period of our story which is laid passed a night there.
within the memory of most who will read it,   At the period of our story this hostel was the
this ruin was unoccupied, and being overgrown resort of two classes of men, farmers and boat-
by tangled creepers and wild vegetation, showed men; the former stopping on their way to Cam-
only here and there a few yards of the massive bridge and Boston, tQ rest their teams and re-
stone of which our forefathers had constructed fresh themselves ; and the latter going or return-
its walls.  Opposite the ruin the banks of the ing in their boats to and fcom the city, where
river were green meadow lands, with here and they went to sell freights of wood, of bark, hides
there a group of trees left to shelter the cattle and hay, lingering to quaff the ale or strong

8

s

i-
i
'
s
'r
-
,,

" And you will come earlier than you do Sat-
urdays," said Dame Madge, in a voice more
like a man's than that of David, but not the
less kindly in its tone for all that ; nay, indeed,
kindness and a sort of prideful love of the young
man, seemed to give softness to the pitch of
both their voices, and light up both their faces
with affectionate interest.
" I will leave the college early, mother, at
least by two o'clock," he answered, as he kissed
her on the cheek, and then shook Davy heartily
by the hand, as if he loved them both with
affectionate gratitude and respect. He then
shouldered his bundle upon the end of his stick,

33
.Y
:r"
'
!
fi
'1
I'R
!"
i
{
1
{
!t{ :
F

KATE WY

waters for which David Blacklock, the inn-
keeper, had far and wide fame. The front of
the hostel was, therefore, often thronged by
carts and wagons to a late hour, and the rear of

the hostel had sometimes as many as five or six
barges and hay boats tied to its quay, some
laden, on their way down the Charles, others
empty, on their return.
One evening, about an hour before sunset, a
young man came out of the ,door of the hostel,
habited in a plain blue frock coat, a low Harvard
cap, and a bundle in one hand and a stout stick
in the other. It was Sunday, and there was but
one wagon by the door, and that of a traveller,
who was just resuming his journey southward.
In the rear there were but two empty wood-
barges fastened, the men who owned them hay
ing gone to their homes, Everything, therefore,
wore the air of a quiet New England Sabbath.
David Blacklpck accompanied the young man
to the door, grasping his hand, as if bidding
him " godspeed ;"  and  Dame Blacklock, a
tall, strong woman, in a monstrous frilled cap
and black silk apron,. also came out to see him
depart.
"Now, you must mind and come home,
Ned, on your birthday, next Thursday," said
David, who was a short, fat, blue and red faced
man, with half whiskers and double chin, and
the very face to make a customer at his ease.
"Yes, father, I'll be sure not to forget it,"
answered the young man, in a frank, cheery
tone.

NYARD.                                   9
and was marching off, when the Dame strode
after him, and taking hold of his shoulder,
said:
" I mean to give you a little dance, boy, on
your birthday, and the lads and lasses for three
miles about '11 be invited."
2 " You are so kind, mother."
"Not a bit of it. ..So if you choose you can
bring with you one or two of your collhgers."
" Thanks, mother ; but I think I shall come
alone."
" Here. Good even, and     take care , of
yourself."
With the word "here " she had thrust, -a
golden guinea into his hand, and he again- er
sumed his tramp down the road. As she came
back to the stoop of the inn, she turned and
looked after him.
" Isn't he a proper youth, man ?" she said,
sententiously. "See how he treads like a
soldier."
" And carries his head like a king."
"And how well made he is."
" He is nearly six feet."
"And only twenty."
"Perhaps not more than nineteen, you know
we don't know exactly," observed David, with
a significant glance at his wife.
"Yes, but I think he must be twenty."
" And so brave he is, too. He carries cour-
age in his eyes, as lions do."
" Yes, and yet he is as gentle as a lamb.,
With all his manliness he loves me now as much
as he did when he was five years old."
" The time we first saw him ! Ab, wife,
what shall we make of him ? A lawyer, I've
been thinking."
" I would say no. Lawyers live on the mis-
fortunes and crimes of men."
" A doctor ?  What say you to that ?" sug-
gested David, pleasantly.
" Doctors live on the groans and, sufferings
of their race. No doctor !" she answered, very
positively.
" What say you to--.to a minister ?"
" Ministers are called of God. If he be,
then let him be a minister; but he must not
thrust himself into that holy place."'


KATE WYNYARD.                11

"True. What, then, my sweet Madge, shall
we make of him?   An inn-keeper?"
" Wouldst thou make an inn-keeper of one
who has talents, education and ambition enough
to be a president or a Washington senator.
We have given him every advantage that the
richest men's sons possess ; and having educated
him as a gentleman we must make a gentleman
of him.  Has he ever kept thy bar? or curried
thy stable horses? or waited on our customers ?
Have we taught him to do this'?"
" No; he has done it only of his own pleas-
ure when he would ; and he would aid me in all
things if I would suffer it."
" Yes, he has no pride, but willing and
cheerful, and seeks to do all he can to lighten
our labor."
"Never was a nobler youth."
"Never one more loved by a mother than he
is loved by tue. Therefore, I would see him
take the position for which nature and the edu-
cation we have given him have" fitted him. In
a few months he will complete the university
course."
"If I was rich I would give him money and
let him set up for a gentleman," said Davy, in
the warm benevolence of his heart, while his
pleasant looking gray eyes sparkled. " I would
like to see him owner of-of-let me see-I
would like to see him the owner of Grasmere
Grove, and married to--to--to-the handsomest
maiden in the land. There is Isabel Lawrence
who-".
" David Blacklock, you don't know what you
are talking about. Miss Lawrence is too rich
and aristocratic to think of Edward, noble and
good as he is."
"He is handsome enough for any of them,
be they who they be." .
"Young girls don't marry young men for
beauty, man. No, no!I  Worthy as he is, he
can't look so high. He is known only as Ed
ward Blacklock, the taverner's son, as he is to
all intents and purposes, and no more ; and talk
about his looking to the proud and beautifu
Miss Lawrence shows that, though you have kep
a public house all your life, you have seen very
little of the world."

"But I was on'y supposing I was rich
and could made him so," answered David,
apologetically.
" But you are not rich. . It has cost us all
our earnings to educate Edward."
" I don't begrudge a dollar of it," responded
the stout taverner, resolutely.
"Nor do I. One of these days Edward may
take a rank with Miss Lawrence or the best in
the land. But he has got first to make his own .
fortune, his own name and his own position.
He must rise gradually till by his talents and
industry he commands those privileges which
his present station has denied him in the out.
start."
David looked at his wife and bowed uncon-
sciously, as he always did when she spoke in
this sensible way ; for Dame Madge, as David
said to everybody in praising her, " had a world
of sense, and could talk like a Cambridge pro-
fessor, to say nothing about books." He now
regarded her with mingled admiration and
respect.
" By St. George's dragon, you say right,
wife ; you always come out right about every-
thing we ever talked about yet. It is time, as
you say, he must make his way. He must get
so high up that he can't see the old inn nor so-
ciety either. But I'm afraid he'll lose sight of
the poor old inn-keeper too."
"Not Edward ! If he should get to be
President of the United States he would set us
down at his table, one on the right hand side
and the other at the left, and do us honor before
the great and mighty men of the land."
" That he would.   That he would, wife,"
said Davy, rubbing his hands in anticipation of
this prospective honor. " But we haven't de-
cided," said Davy, filling his pipe, and seating
r himself on a bench before his house, where the
evening sun could warm him, for it was one of
- those bright autumnal days when the sun's rays
feel peculiarly genial to old men, " we haven't
yet decided what he is to be."
 " I am for having him a place in the navy,"
t answered the dame, firmly.
" Then he would be shot or drowned right

off" answered Davy, as he pushed a chair with
his foot, as a hint to his good dame to sit down
opposite to him, a hint which, after getting her
big Bible, she took.
"Young men must run risks," answered the
dame, as she adjusted her iron spectacles pre-
paratory to reading her usual Sunday evening
chapter."I would like to have him enter the
navy. He has a decided taste for the sea. He
has managed a boat from a boy ; and since that
trip you took him on with you to Halifax, when
you went after the legacy that English distant
relative of yours left you, he has said he would
of all things prefer the sea."
" Ay, that he would, that he would. At
sea he was always aloft, or steering, or doing
duty ; so that by the time we got back to Boston
the skipper said he was half a sailor already.
But I don't like them storms at sea," added
David, shaking his head.  "I don't believe the
sea was ever made to go upon, not I; and that
Providence sets its waves sometimes tumblin'
mountain high to keep people ashore."
"I have already spoken with the Commodore
who stopped here last year when he was looking
at Colonel R---'s place, intending to buy it.
He has promised me he will use his influence to
get him in as a midshipman."
"I'm afraid he's too old for that."
" It may be so. I am going to see him again
about the matter, and I have no doubt--"
"Here comes young Manfred Lawrence, with
his gun and dogs," said David, interrupting her,
as he saw a young man in a hunter's dress, and
with a gun on his arm, followed by a setter dog
and a pointer come along the road from up the
river path.
"Yes, rich and, Sabbath breaking ; his gold
gives him boldness to break God's laws as well
as man's."
" Nay, wife, you are too harsh. The young
man is in college all the week, and he must
have some recreation, to be sure," said the be-
nevolent David.
"So is Edward in college all the week.
Think you he would shoot or fish on Sunday for
all that ?"

" No, that he wouldn't. But it depends;on
a man's conscience, I suppose ; and richfolks
don't seem to have as particular consciences as
poor people. Good even, sir," added Davy,
removing his pipe and making a civil bow with
it, not having any hat to remove from his head.
"You seem to have been sporting to-day ?"
"Yes, but poor luck," answered the young
hunter, stopping before the stoop of the inn,
and resting the butt of his double-barrelled
Manton upon the broad and well foot-worn stone
step. He then glanced at Dame Blacklock,
who, without deigning to notice him, had set
herself to reading her Bible on his approach.
He evidently did not like her contemptuous in-
difference, for with a sneer he said-" What
news from the old world, old lady ? I see you
are reading in Moses and the Prophets. There
was plenty of game destroyed in that flood father
Noah brought on the earth ; but it seems he
took care to keep a few birds and a deer or two
for his own eating."
"This is the news I find here, and doubtless
it is news to you, young gentleman," answered
the bold dame; and she read in a loud tone these
words: " Thou shalt keep holy the Sabbath."
He started. They seemed like a command
from the voice of God, she read them with such
impressive majesty.
" Bless me, what a preacher she would
make !" ejaculated David, in an under tone,
partly in pridefulness, partly in awe. . She re-
sumed her reading without deigning the young
man any further notice. He looked pale and
angry, and taking up his gun, went on
muttering :
" When I get to the property I will have you
ousted out of this, old witch !"
" And he will do it too, Margy,"' said Davy,
looking troubled. "-I am sorry -you gave him
such a hard hit from scripture."
" I am not. If, when he comes to the prop-
erty, he turns us out by refusing to renew the
lease, God will not suffer you or I to come to
want for reading his commandments to a Sabbath-
breaker."
" You are always right, always do .right, say

10                KATE W YN YARD.


12

KATE WYNYARD.

right, and know all that's right. I wish I had
half your brains. See him go stalking off!
How differently he looks from our Edward."
"As different as Satan and saint," answered
the strong-spoken woman.
"Yet he is good looking, fair in form, tall
and well put together."
" So is a blood horse. An animal is an ani-
mal, whether he go on two legs or four."
" By St. George's dragon, dame, but you
are right in that. A fine horse is no sign of a
good soul and honest character."
"It is the.spirit and heart that make a man,
not the shape, or symmetry, or height of his
body. Did you see the eyes of this Manfred
Lawrence ?"
"Sharp enough."
"Sharp ! There is a very devil lurking in
each-a wicked, bad hearted devil ! Handsome
as his face is, it is lighted up by a dangerous
spirit. I would not trust that man to have the
power to kill me ; for beshrew me but he would
do it this night for that scripture I read him, if
he were sure that he would never be discovered.
No, no, he neither fears God nor man. And
yet he is as haughty as a prince.  I do not for-
get the time when he rode up last year, and
seeing Edward standing on.the porch, threw his
rein to him and ordered him to hold his horse
while he came in to drink."
" Yes, and Eddy did it."
"And.did you see how he did it ?  Did you
see the smile of calm superiority with which he
did it?  He knew that the rich Manfred Law-
rence meant to insult him, and he would not be
insulted ; for he did exactly as he ordered him,
as if he had done it for a friend, and had not
noticed the manner ; and in this way the insult
lost its force ; and -I saw how mean Manfred
looked, and how he blushed with a sense of in-
feriority, as Edward surrendered the bridle to
him with a quiet smile, and pleasantly wished
him an agreeable ride."
" It takes Ned. I should have knocked him
over if I had been in Ned's place. But he's
got a deal of your wit, Margy. I wonder if
they ever speak in college."

"No.   Manfred never recognizes him, though
he knows him well; nay, as boys they have
boated, fished, and roamed the woods together ;
but when they grew older, and one realized that
he was an heir, and that his companion was but
the son of an inn-keeper, they ceased to asso-
ciate ; and I am not sorry, for. Edward loses
nothing, but rather gains by the termination of
their intimacy."
" So I think, to be sure, Margy ; you are al-
ways right. Dear bless us, how like a book
you talk."
"The sister Isabel is superior to her brother,
if one may judge by looks. But she has been
so long away till last month at school, he has
not seen her to have much evil influence over
her ; and doubtless she is now old enough-for
she must be eighteen or nineteen-to have her
character pretty well formed."  -
" She's amazing handsome, that is certain.
I could light my pipe at her eyes, they are so
bright. Then she has a toss of her head that
is just like that of a deer when it goes trotting
along on a ridge of a clear morning, snuffing up
the bracing air, and feeling his high blood. and
scarcely feeling the ground as he passes over
it !"
"Why, Davy, you are cracked, man ," ex-
claimed his wife, looking over the top of her
spectacles at her husband, from whom she had-
never before heard a speech to equal that.
" Not a bit of it, Margy.  If I use college
talk sometimes, I catch it from you and Ned ;
and if I ever use it, by St. George's dragon I
ought to use it in speaking of pretty Bella
Lawrence. She speaks like an angel, any how.
Never heard such a musical voice.  Says she to-
me, as her mother stopped her carriage to ask
me about the pair of horses she wanted me to
buy for her, you know, says she, ' Ah, Mister
David, Icam glad to see you looking so well.
You don't recollect me,.I suppose, it is so many
years since I used to be at home, a little girl;
but you look the same, only a little more corpu.
lent.' " Here David looked down complacent-
ly upon his aldermanic abdomen, and added,
" Perhaps I do grow a beetle fleshy, wife !"

KATE WYNYARD.
" You seem to be too old to be remembering said, reading from where births were recorded.
the speeches of young girls, man."            "That isnot old. By St.---Dragon !-I
" Old? I never was so young in my life as mean St. George--I don't mean anything.
I am now ! By St. George's dragon, I could Mustn't swear Sunday. Forty nine ! Wait till
dance a-"                                   I'm fifty, which'll be ten years yet; I mean to
" Sunday ?" came so sternly from the dame's keep this side of fifty in the forties as long as I
severe lips, that the astounded inn keep can. Look at Edward's age."
er stopped as short as if he had been shot, and  "His age, man?  You speak as if the day
resumed his smoking with a very repentant look. of his birth were put down here."
David,- you must get over this swearing of a  "True, true. It is only the day-you know !
Sunday."                                    Well, what day was that?  Read ?"
Swear?"                                   She reads : " On this, the thirteenth day of
" Your oath by St. George and his dragon!1 September, 18-, the child, Edward, about five
This is bad enough week days, but on a years old, was found on the river opposite the
Sunday-"                                    house, drifting by in a chest, and asleep."
"That's a fact ; but I didn't know it !"   "That is to-day. This is the thirteenth of
"Hear what the Bible says !" _ And she September. It g the anniversary."
turned to the New Testament and opened, with  " I did not think of it."
a hand evidently familiar with the places in the  "Nor I, or I would have kept it by an apple.
holy volume, at these words, which she read dumpling more at dinner, as usual."
with a look at her husband of mild reproof: "He did not think of it, or he would have
" Swear not at all, neither by Jgeaven, for it spoken of it," said Dame Blacklock.
is God's throne I nor by the earth, for it is his "That was a very extraordinary circumstance,
footstool!  Neither by thy head, for thou canst Margy. I haven't done wondering at it yet,
not make one hair white or black."          though it was fifteen years ago."
" But I swear by St. George, dame.  Noth.   " Some mother-some father is now either
ing against that, hey ?"                    suffering in the world of woe for this desertion,
"Did I not read 'Swear not at all?' "     or repenting in remorse in this life."
"True, true, I forgot.   You are always     "Would you be willing, if the parents were
right. Bad habit, 'specially of a Sunday. But found, to give him up ?"
you mistake in saying I am old. Look at the   "Not to give up his affection-O, no ! But
record. There's my bith set down in black I would gladly share him with them, could his
and white.  Read it."                       parents be discovered."
"I mean to think of maidens."              "I wouldn't give him  up if twenty fathers
"Ah, I can't get the pretty daughter of and fifty mothers should come after him, not I,
General Lawrence out of my head.   I would by St. Geor'-'gon! He's like a son of my
die happy to see Ned married to her."       own bone, to be sure!"
" You are daft, man. I would not.  When     " He loves us as if he were our child."
he is married I want to see. him honored by " He says he knows no difference. Do you
the family into. which he marries. Thinkest know, wife, that he remembers clearly to this
thou that he and Manfred Lawrence ever could day all that passed just before we found him."
cross hands in friendship and brotherly love ?"  "He knows it as a dream  only. He says
"Hark ! There was a gun. He is shooting that he is not sure that what he has supposed
rabbits,  guess ; out it must ne too aarlr in the all along as real, may be a dream. He is not
wood. You can hardly see to read now, as the certain now that he recollects anything before
sun is down."                               that time."
" Your age is just forty-nine, David," she " Yet he told us so odd a story, wife, when


KATE= WXNYARD.

he woke up. Wasn't it a heavy sleep be was
in?  Full twelve hours before we could wake
him."
"Because he was drugged.   0, there was a
crime.in some one.  May they have been spar-.
ed to repent the deed," said Dame Blacklock,
rising to go in ; for- by this time the sun was
down, and the shades of twilight were deepening,
into the darkness of a -starry night.
David remained yet a little longer, smoking
his pipe,'and' thinking over the time when, as
he was standing fishing from a rock in the rear of
the inn, he saw a seaman's blue chest, with the
lid down, floating past with the current, and
pressing down two-thirds deep in the water, as
if it carried weight. His pole was a very long
one, and by throwing it skilfi lly out with the
additional length of the line, he succeeded in
striking the chest with the hook, and drawing it
in to the shore. Upon raising the lip, he dis-
covered a boy of five years old, or thereabouts,
lying fast asleep in the bottom. He uttered so
loud an exclamation that his good wife ran out
and saw the child also.. It had dark brown hair
cropped short, as if shears had been rudely used
to s'evr-,clusters of rich ringlets from the head.
His' complexion was fair and soft, his hands
white, his feet, which were bare, tender, as if
they had never been used to tread the ground
shoeless, and his clothing very coarse, but near-
ly new, yet of the cheapest and meanest des-
cription. There was no paper, no sign in the
chest or about him to indicate his name or
whence he came. They at once removed him
from the chest to a bed in the inn, and used

every means to awake him out of 'the deathlike
repose in which he, lay, and which, from the
smell of opium on- his breath, which Dame
Blacklock detected, had:been induced by an
administered potion by some hand and for some
object unknown.
At length after twelve hours the boy awoke,
and looked around with terror ; but seeing
strange but kind faces regarding him,. and feel-
ing the soft touch and gentle kiss of Dame
Blacklock, he was re assured.
"0, you will'save me-you will not let them
hurt me !-will . you 2'' he said, in the most
touching accents.
"That we will not, by St. George's dragon !"
answered David, whose belligerency was raised
to a dangerous height by the indignation of his
benevolence that any one should seek to injure
so innocent a child. -"If they come here they
will go away wi' hi broken heads.".
"You are safe here, my child," answered
the dame, folding him to her heart. "If you
have no other parents, we will be to you father
and mother."
And faithfully had the inn-keeper and his
wife fulfilled their pledge up to this day. No
one ever came to inquire after the boy ; and as
at the time he was found no one happened to be
in the inn but themselves, no' one knew how the
child came there ; and it was very easy for the
dame to say that it was one they had adopted,
without entering into particulars. So he grew
up, not so much as an adopted child, as an own
child, and by most persons he was considered
their own son.
-         1

CHAPTER II.

The student's happy spirit.   Grasmere Grove.    The student's purpose.   An observer.   A
conversation of deep interest to him.   Aan   fred, the brother.   His feelings towards
Blacklock, who finds in the sister an ardent 'defender.  A new character.

, HE young student having soon lost sight
- of the inn which was hidden from him by
a turn in the road, along which he was walking
and which followed the windings of the river,
marched along with a free and cheerful air.-
The walk he had taken nearly 'every Sunday
evening for three years past ; for as the univer-
sity lay but about eight miles from the inn, in a
northerly direction, he came home every Satur-
day and passed the following day with his pa-
rents, as he called the honest inn-keeper Da-
vid and his sensible, strong-minded dame.
It Was a pleasant autumnal evening. The
west was golden-hued, mingled with purple
and apple-green tints. A few lances of crimson
clouds with banners folded about them, as they
seemed to be, were crossed above the sun, which
was setting in an aerial ocean of fire. The clear
stream, which he always regarded with a strange
feeling of affection and mysterious awe, recol-
lecting how he had been found floating upon it,
glided past at his side, blushing with the roses
which it stole from the western heavens. A few
birds were hopping from tree to furze, carolling

their vespers to the departing day, and high Tn
the air with balanced wings sailed the sea hawk
oceanward. There was a Sabbath stillness in
the air, that absence of the sounds of labor
which stir the atmosphere during the six days of
the toiling week.
Edward marched on, light-hearted and happy.
He knew not a care, he experienced not a fear
or an apprehension.. He had all that his heart
could desire. He had a pleasant home, was be-
loved by David and the good dame as if he were
their flesh and blood ; he had sufficient money
at all times to meet his wishes, and luxuries and
pleasures he cared little for ; his rank as a stu-
dent in the university was enviably high; he
was. popular among those whose esteem and
friendship were truly desirable ; and he had
the confidence of the professors to whose de-
partment he belonged. He had not an enemy
that he knew of on earth. Why then should ho
not feel and be happy ; and show that he was
so by his cheery air and elastic tread, and
humming in a mellow key the air of some favor-
ite piece. All nature reflected his happiness;

" e


16         e                     KATE WI
and he saw in all around him, in the beauty of
the skies, the splendor of the sun, the verdant
mantles of the forests, the green sward beneath,
the clear river, the gray rocks, the winds, the
very air he breathed, causes for gratitude to the
Giver of all these good gifts.
There were, however, depths and sources of
happiness which he wot not of, and which he did
not suspect ! There were abysses in his soul
that he knew not existed, and in whose depths
are found diamonds of joy that his experience
had never discovered. He had never been in
love ! He was, therefore, not perfectly happy ;
or rather he was happy only up to his knowl-
edge ; he'enjoyed that bliss which only the ig-
norance of what is still more blissful makes per-
fection.
At length he reached the foot of the cliff or
rock on the top of which were the ruins of the
old English church. Here the road turned
short and wound for full half a mile quite around
the estate which we have before described, and
which was called Grasmere Grove, the residence
of the late General Washington Lawrence.-
Edward, however, instead of going round as
he sometimes did when the hour was earlier,
now left the road, and ascended the cliff by a
path once used by the inhabitants of a former
day when they sought the place of prayer. It
was now wild and overgrown, and butlittle used
save by a chance traveller, who, like our hero,
might wish to shorten the way by taking the
path in front of the Grasmere lawn.
Upon reaching the top of the eminence he
paused to survey the landscape in the light of
the rich sunset glow. The first frost of autumn
had already turned the foliage of the maple into
crimson flakes, and dyed the oak and poplar with
the hues of the orange ; and he could not but
delay, near as night was, to indulge his innate
love for the beautiful, by taking a hurried glance
of the landscape. In order the better to see
and widen the range of his eye, he climbed a
portion of the ruins where the chancel had stood,
*and east his eyes about him. To the south, the
Charles wound in every variation of the line oi
beauty till it was lost amid the landscape; andc

YNYARD.

everywhere above the trees that embosomed it
was visible the roofs, or cupolas, or turrets of
villas in every style, from the Grecian and Ital-
ian to the Gothic and Swiss. To the east, full
six miles off, he saw the mountain-like city of
Boston crowned with its lofty capitol and ser-
rated with a hundred heaven-piercing spires, all
dimly and softly visible through a delicate veil
of azure haze.  North of the metropolis his eye
detected the obelisk of granite which " first'
catches the morning beams, and whereon lights
the last radiance of the setting day !"  Farther
to the west, and in the direction in which his
path lay, he could discern the graceful spires
and lofty roofs of the university towering above
the trees that engrove its scholastic walks.'
" How many young men have gone forth
from those shades of lore to fall in the strife of
life with every hope, crushed !  So it may be
with me !" was his reflection. "All my ambi-
tious aspirations may become chaff; and, instead
of leaving my name as a proud legacy to my
country, it may be forgotten in another genera-.
tion that I was even ever an inmate of yonder
noble pile.  But I will not think so !  I will
believe that the future will open bright as it
now appears, and that the students of the uni-
versity a hundred years hence shall remember
with honor that I was educated there.  So it
shall be, if a stout heart and a firm purpose and
trust in Heaven can accomplish anything !"
As he spoke these words his eye kindled and
his whole form dilated with a nobler outline, as
it yielded to the aspiring outbreathings of the
spirit within. But all at once his brow colored
with all the blood of his heart, for he had utter-
ed his words aloud, supposing himself to be
alone, when looking down into the chancel he
saw standing in the window out of which she
had been leaning, a young lady who was regard-
ing him with curiosity and surprise. That she had
evidently heard every word he had uttered, he
saw by the expression of her beautiful face,
which betrayed an embarrassed consciousness.-.-
For a moment he stood returning her regards,
f too confused to speak; but recovering himself,
Ihe smiled, as if at himself, and lifting his cap
he said:

Y
e
i
x
3
t
t
4r
I I
5
r
3
S
s
7
i

KATE WY

"Pardon me, but I believed myself to be
alone ! I think I have the honor of seeing Miss
Lawrence."
The young lady bowed, and seemed to be sur
priced that he knew her name, yet she was
plainly gratified to be recognized by the hand-
some stranger;,but in return her finely expres-
sive eyes seemed to ask who he was.
" You do not know -me," he said, under-
standing the look, while he felt a desire to have
some excuse to linger and see more of one so
lovely ; for until that moment he did not believe
that woman could be so beautiful as she seemed
to him. It is only new-bornlove that can trans-
late female beauty and make it intelligible.-
Till then her loveliness passes before him like
the printed page of an unknown language,making
no impression either upon the heart or the mind.
But one emotion of that sympathy out of which
love grows renders the language of beauty in
telligible to the soul. Without this talismanic
love, woman is a book beautifully bound but in
an unknown tongue.
"I should be pleased," she said, smiling en
chantingly, and speaking in the frank manner of
one who is superior to all affectation, and thinks
and acts without guile, "to know who you are
since, you have called me by name'?"
"Perhaps I was rude to take the liberty o
speaking your name, for it is some years since]
last saw you. I was then a boy, and you hav
of course forgotten me; but I have never for
gotten, I could never forget you."
This was said, so naturally, so warmly front
the heart, that she dropped her eyes to the pave
flpor in beautiful confusion.  He admired th
splendor of her beauty, the flowing grace of he
robes and form, her dark hair bound up behind
yet bursting in rich luxurianc3 firom the fillet
waved with the negligence of native-grace about
her moulded shoulders ; and as she stole a glance
towards him, he wondered at the fire of he
eyes, and that the delicately fringed lid could
conceal or reveal at pleasure so much splendor
but be was pleased to see. that maidenly mild
ness tempered their impassioned vivacity.
" You are very kind to remember me," sh

rNYARD.                                 17
said, recovering from her surprise at the earnest
words that fell upon her ears ; " are you not Ed-
ward Blacklock I"
"Yes. I am not then forgotten ei tirely, I
see, Miss Lawrence. I welcome you nome,
and trust that your future will be as bright as
the present promises." He then turned and
wished her a formal "good evening," and was
going down the cliffside to proceed on his wpy,
whon she said, smiling:
"I heard your soliloquy, Mr. Blacklock.--
Let me be permitted to believe that your hopes
of distinction will be fully realized. One who
can speak as you have, must possess the energy
" to render himself both great and good."
"Thanks, Miss Isa-, I should say Miss
Lawrence."
" You need not have corrected yourself," she
said, with frank sympathy. "How changed you
are in six years?  I now see the boy in the
man. But I should never have recognized you.
Do you remember the squirrel you caught and
presented to me ?"
 " Iremember well how happy your accept-
f ance of it made me at the time," said Edward,
s his fine face lighting up with those pleasant
memories of the past of which she had so agreea-
bly touched the key.
f   " And how I wept because Tiger, brother's
I dog, caught it and tore it to pieces. And do
e you remember the time I broke through the ice
slidingdirectly opposite, this spot and you caught
inc as I was sinking through, while Manfred
n stood by paralyzed with fear'?"
d    "I had forgotten it, but now I plainly recol-
e lect it."
r "I owed my life to you. You were skating
by at the time, and at the imminent risk ofgo-
, ing under with me, rescued me. I recollect my
t father's gratitude."
e    " Do you remember, Miss Isabel, once giving
r me a ring t"
d    "A  ring'?" repeated the maiden, deeply
blushing.  "I am sure I have quite forgotten
-. it," she added, laughing.
" I have not ; and here it is," he added, tak-
e0 ing one from his little finger and presenting it to
her."


KATE WYNYARD.                19

18                 1ATE WYNYARD.

" What? You have not been so foolish as+
to keep it'?" she said, but looking rather pleas-
ed than offended.
4ifhave never parted with it for a moment.
It remains with you now to say whether I shall
retain it."
"4Certainly. If I gave it to you then, I eon-
firm the gift now,for I see no reason to revoke it."
"I will always keep it then.  It has been a
living reinembrancer of you."
"Do you remember the circumstances under
which I gave it to you'?" she asked, dropping
her eyes, but smiling beneath the'lids, while she
tapped the stone floor with the point of her lit-
tle foot.
" Perfectly. It was six years ago, the eve of
your departure to a boarding-school.  You were
then in your thirteenth year, and I not but a
couple of years older. I had come to give
you a robin red-breast to take to town, as I had
heard you say you wanted one to make a pres-
ent of to your sister.  I made the cage my-
self with my penknife, and I was a happy
workman while I was about it, because I knew
how it would please you."
"And it did please me, I remember well."
"And then you gave me this ring, taking it
off of your fore-finger and saying: " Take this
ring, Edward, to remember me by !"
"I recollect it," answered the maiden, with
a pleasant, conscious laugh, while her beauty
was enriched by a mantling blush. But to show
you I have not been more neglectful of child-
hood days than you seem to have been, I beg
leave to inform you- but I am doing a very
foolish thing ! But it is only for old times we
are so freely talking, so, I will tell you that I
have kept the cage."
" Kept the little wooden cage'? It was not
worth a thought after you had got the robin to
Boston, where you could get a gilt one."
" And agilt one was bought ; but I kept the
cage, and have it yet ; and I would not part
with it for a great deal, it is such an old friend."
There was an agreeable light beaming in Ed-
ward Blacklock's eyes as he heard these words.
He regarded her for an instant with feelings ofl

emotion and gratitude, but so mixed with pleas
ure and joy, and with be knew not what form of
wild hopes, that he did not dare to venture a re-
ply. He felt that his voice would betray emo-
tions which he ought not to have suspected. He
felt grateful that the fair 'playmate of his boy-
hood so pleasantly remembered the past, and so
happily alluded to them, while he wondered that
the haughty reserve which for three or four years
past had marked her brother Manfred's conduct
towards him, had not been shared in by the no-
ble looking and beautiful sister. " She at least
does not despise me for my humble estate," he
said to himself, with inward gratification. 0,
how lovely she has become ! How pure and no-
ble seems to be her whole character. How free
from affectation ! and that she should have kept
the little cage ! But it was only aremembrance
of home, not of me!/ Down, ambitious heart !
Quiet, high aspirations ! Such thoughts must,
die ere they take root. I will dismiss them at
once and forever with the bold moment that
gave them birth !"  He then added aloud:
" Miss Lawrence, I fear I am trespassing on
your time. As I have to walk to the college to-
night, I will leave you to the seclusion which I
have intruded upon. But I was not aware that
I should find any one here ; and I took this way
to save the longer walk around by the road."
"I am very glad I met you. I asked my
brother about you last week,-but he said helhad
not seen you to speak with you for a long time."
"He says truly. We meet daily in college,
but for three or four years we have not inter-
changed words, I believe."
" And are you at feud with him ?"
" Nay. I have only the kindest feelings to-
wards him ; and had I reason for any other, I
could not, after the friendly manner you have
met me to-day and renewed our childhood ac-
quaintance so frankly. I could not,after this for
your sake, think unkindly of him. I fear it
is your brother, who finds the son of an innkeep-
er not exactly the associate he should select in
his manhood 1"
"I trust he has not such feelings."
" I may do him wrong. But since I have

never given him any occasion for treating me
coldly, I am at a loss to attribute it to any oth-
er cause."
" Yes, it may be so. Manfred is haughty and
sensitive. But I will see that you are friends
again!"
" Not for the world, Miss Isabel. I have
pride, also, and I would not have him compelled
out of regard to you to endure a companionship
with one whom he would not voluntarily retain
as his friend."
" Then I will say nothing.  I am sorry for
this. You were once such good friends."
"That," answered Edward, with a slight
tremor of his finely chiselled lips, "was before he
was taught by the prejudices of society the wide
distinction that exists between the son of Gen-
eral Lawrence and the son of David Blacklock
the innkeeper.
The young man spoke with calmness and self-
respect, so that she sympathized with him as if
she saw clearly his position. For a moment or
two she stood thoughtful and silent, and looking
down as if much distressed. - At length she
looked up to make some remark which from the
expression of her eyes was to have been both
kindly and an expression of her own esteem,
when the place where he stood was vacant; and
gazing down the steep she saw  him  hurrying
along the bank of the river on his way to the
university. The next moment a group of bend-
ing trees hid him from sight._
" There goes a proud and manly spirit, who
I know is worthy of all confidence and respect.
Yes, he is right. Manfred disdains to associate
with his old playmate. But is he not worthy?
What a noble figure and bearing,that might mate
him with the lords of England ! What an in.
genuous expression of truth and candor in his
face. What spirit tempered by modest diffi-
dence, in the light of his clear, expanding eyes.
How handsome he is too !  Ah, Manfred, thou
art surely casting aside a treasure, in casting
aside this young Edward Blacklock, because he
is of humble Qrigin !" At this instant, a squir-
rel running along the wall of the ruins, stopped
directly above her head. A report of a gun

was heard a few feet from her and the little ani-
mal fell dead at her feet, while with a half shriek
she sorted from the spot which had become
so nearly fatal to her. She had hardly time to
realize that she was not killed or at least wound-
ed by the ball which had whiz ed close above
her head, when Manfred leaped through a ruin-
ous window behind her, his smoking gun in his
hand.
" You nearly made me your target, brother,"
she said, in a slight tone of reproof.
He seemed surprised if not startled at seeing
her there, and then satisfying himself by a clos-
er scrutiny that she was not hit, he said in a
careless tone :
" Girls should not be about old ruins if they
don't want to be taken for squirrels. How dids
I know you were here'? I supposed you were
at church."
" We have been returned from church more
than an hour, and I walked down here to enjoy
the sunset view. Do you remember how we
used to climb this ruin when children? It
doesn't seem to be so high as it appeared then."
" No, I took some of the stone to have that
boat pier built," answered the young hunter,
pointing with the squirrel in his hand to a little
wharf below, where was moored a green painted
sail boat.
"It ought not to have been disturbed, Man-
fred. It is sacred, and it is so associated with
our earlier years, that I love every stone. Do
you recollect when we had a picnic here, and
you insisted on dining off the communion table,
but I prevailed to have the dinner on this slab'?
Edward Blacklock was one of the party. I
saw him a few minutes ago."
" I hope you did not renew your former ac-
quaintance with him," said Manfred, with a
quick, hostile tone and look, that harmonized
with the passionate and fiery character of his
features.
"Indeed, I was very glad to see him," she
said, quietly. " He looks remarkably well, and
has grown so noble looking and handsome."
" Humi Did you shake hands with him'?"
"0O, no," answered Isabel, laughing. " We


20                KATE WYNYARD. .

met almost as strangers, and if I hadn't pro-
longed the interview he would have vanished at
once."
"I hope you will never recognize him again,"
said Manfred, with haughty displeasure.
" I see no objection to doing so," she replied
pleasantly, but with a spice of native indepen.
deuce, which she got from the General, her father.
" He is certainly the finest looking young man
I ever saw."
" Your notions of fine looks differ essentially
from mine, Isabel.  You seem to forget who he
is'?"
" A student of the university I think he told
me."
" An innkeeper's son. He is too low for
you or I to notice.  Why I have thrown the fel-
low the bridle of my horse to hold within the
year, out of pure scorn, and to teach him that I
knew his place."
"And did he strike you ?"
"He !   No, no !  He held my horse."
"He did !"
"To be sure it was a little sarcastic in the
fellow, his doing so."
"You ought to have been ashamed of your-
self, Manfred, thus unprovoked to insult a fel-
low-student and early playmate, because he does
not happen to be born precisely in the same con-
dition of society of yourself. His birth is
nothing against him."
"I do believe if the fellow should hear you,
he'd be encouraged to fall in love with you."
"Ahime !" she sighed, with a mischievous
smile, " I fear no such good luck. Here I've
been three weeks from boarding school and no
one has proposed to me ! I should be so flat.
tered, brother, to know that I was good looking
enough to be fallen in love with."
" You are at your old badinage, I see.  But
let him go ! He is not worth wasting words
upon. I only entreat that if he has the impu-
dence to take advantage of your recognition of
him, you would check him with a little of your
hauteur.  Which way was he going'?"
"He told me towards the university."
" Yes. He comes home every week and

stays Saturday and Sunday to save two days
meals in commons, he is so poor !"
" I wish I were now rich, I would save him
from this censure, brother, by making him a
present of a thousand dollars."
" You must be mad ! or else you are trying
to see how far you can annoy me when you see
I like him not."
" 1 am not mad, but only grateful. If I
gave him half my fortune, I should but be pay-
ing him a part of a debt I can never repay.--
Have you forgotten that I owe my life to him'?"
"Poh! hundreds of lives have been saved."
" And did I have a hundred lives, I should
not feel so gratefully as I do the safety of one ;
but as I have but one life, I feel proportionably
thankful to him who has preserved it."
" You will cause me to kill that fellow yet,
Isabel !" he exclaimed, quite thrown off his
guard and uttering, unmasked, all his mind.
"Manfred, brother!" she cried, looking at
him  with severe reproof.  "You know not
what you say!"
"Then do not name him to me again !"
"Ah! something more than dislike of one
beneath you in his birth lies at the bottom of all
this, brother ! What has Edward done to thee,
to rouse thy worst passions'?"
" No matter, no matter ! Let it suffice that
I hate him; and if you speak to him -.--"
"Do you threaten me, also, brother'?"
"Forgive me !  But if he dares to speak
with you again, he crosses my path after to his
sorrow.  Come, do not stay here ! Let us go
home. The sun is setting. Nay, you look an-
gry. Wake up !   I have had no luck to-day
and came here in ill-humor."  He pressed his
lip to her cheek ; and she strove to recover her-
self; but his dark and threatening language,
the evil light which shone in his eyes,had chilled
for the moment the warm fountain of her affee-
- tion ; and they had reached the villa before she
f could resume her wonted manner towards him.
In the meantime the unconscious student of
. this excitement, of this attack and defence, pur-
sued his solitary way, carrying in his heart the
Sweet traces of the pleasant interview in the

ruin. To say that he had fallen in love with
her on the spot would not be so near the real
state of the case, as to say that he had loved
her from childhood, and only now renewed and
revived from deeper emotions this early child-
hood attachment. Neither knew then, in those
free, heart-innocent, thought-innocent days, that
they were lovers in the bud.. Neither under-
stood that the little wooden cage so industrious-
ly made held Cupid as well as the robin, and
that love shaped, worked out and completed the
whole, and even caught the robin, and bore it
to her ; nor did either then suspect or under-
stand that the giving and accepting the ring was
a juvenile passage of love, that only wanted
age and occasion to produce all the fruits of the
profoundest passion. And neither had the re-
motest idea that the- careful cherishing of the
ring were continual outward signs of the exis-
tence'of the inward regard. But even with all
these seeds that time might or might not ripen, if
they had never met again neither would have lived
or died pining or broken-hearted, but doubtless
without any especial misgiving would have loved
and married some other mate. But their pres-
ent re-meeting at precisely the age they now both
were, with the advantages to aid a mutual pas-
sion which came from all the past with its sweet
associations, it seems irresistible that the frail
chord broken six years ago; should not be re-
united in the interview, and become a living vine
to wind around both their hearts and draw them
closer to each other in its encircling folds.
The meeting, therefore, at this juncture was
destined to influence their future destinies, if
we may judge from the character of it and the
sentiments which it developed. Yet neither sus-
pected the truth. Edward had no idea that the
new emotion which he felt as he walked along,
proceeded from any other cause than pleasura-
ble emotion at meeting with an old playmate and
at her frank and cordial recognition; while she,
as after reaching her room, she recalled the ex-
pression of his features and voice, little suspect-
ed that she was thereby influenced by other
emotions than friendship. But we, who are
perhaps older and understand these .things bet-
2'

ter than they do, are not at a loss to discover
[ that at this meeting the friendship.of childhood
I became converted into the magic charm of lovg.
Edward had reaclied that point of the road
where it leaves the i'iver to strike across a mea-
dow to the turnpike-road, when he saw a barge
stealing close to the shore and half-obscured in
the shadows of a row of willows that grew on
the bank. It was now quite sunset, for he had
delayed some time at the river, yet-light enough
for him to see that there were five men in the
boat, four rowing and one in the' stern steer-
ing. It was so common a thing to see boats
on the river that he was passing on his way, fol-
lowing the diverging angle of the road, when
he was hailed by the man in the stern.
"Ho, shipmate, a word with you !"
He paused and the man stepping ashore drew
near towards him. Edward saw that he was
dressed in a seaman's blue jacket and wore a
palmetto hat, as if he had recently come from
tropical latitudes. He was about eight and
twenty years of age, rather short but compactly
made, and having dark features. Altogether
his appearance was that of a man whose home
was on the sea rather than on the land, and who
had sailed long beneath torrid suns. His gait
was nautical and had that careless, independent
swing which is inimitable by any landsman-
Edward was pleased rather than otherwise with
his appearance, though his face, though good-
natured,-had in it a dash of hardihood that show-
ed he would be a dangerous enemy to deal with,
as well as likely to be a firm friend.
" What can I do for you'?' asked Edward,
as he surveyed the man's features, in which he
fancied he saw a resemblance to some one whom
he knew.
"I am a stranger in these seas, shipmate,"
replied the man, "and you will do me a favor by
telling me what course to steer, for Brown Bear
tavern.' I'm afraid I've overhauled it, as they
told me 'twas but a league, and by the time I've
been under way, I must have missed it."
" No. You have nearly another mile to row,
sir, and you will see it on the right bank asyou

KATE WYNYARD.                21


KATE WYNYARD.

ascend. It is painted red and has a gallery
overhanging the water;"
" Thank'ee, shipmate ! and as you seem to
know so much abqut it, can you tell me if there
is a young gentleman there by the name of Ed-
ward Blackley, or--',
"Blacklock," answered Edward, who was
puzzling his head all the while to trace the re-
semblance to some one he saw in his: face.
"That is the name, master !"
"Are you going up to David Blacklock's inn
to see this young man?"-
"For nothing else."
"Then I will save you the trouble of going
farther, for I axpi the person."

"The deuce you are! No false colors?"
" No. I am the young man of that name."
[SEE UNGRAVING.
"Thenletme have yourhandandgrasp it, andI
wish my heart was in my grasp, sir," answered
the sailor with a heartymanner, as he shook Ed-
ward by the hand. " You are a gentleman and
a brave fellow, and I am your friend if you nev-
er' had one before !' And he again shook
Edward's hand with a sincerity that surprised
the other as much as his words and mapner, for
he had no recollection of having ever seen him
before.

I

,V

A
t
J
t
j
F
t
s
2
s
3
t

CATR III.
The s il r's copnmunication.. Thq Wynyard cottage    4 leaf from th  pat,    trees
.Kate's feeling  toward s Edward, and t4e ,rse of Manfred to efect his purpose.
tER   {was something in the  manner of { "I am very glad to see yon. You hav been
the   angerwhich drew Edward kindly absent from home-."
towards him,,while in the expression of his face, "Eight years or more. And I 'ea ,,home
though the best emotions of the man were, evi! only yesterday. And my mother told me
denty called.up in it, there was something that night whatwe owed to your courage, sir. )Yr
repelled him. It was astrange mingling of sister, Kate, would nwver have :,menid it
good and evil, the former,. from some unknown perhaps, so long as no. harm caee oftwb
cause, beingntemporari,1y in theascendant. It when I questioned her after my inether hed 1e4
was theconntenane of, a bad man, who was yet off soundings, she up helm  and bore awhy;eg
not so far los to, the finor sensibilities ofa It" the whole story ; and when hespd hon euseh
ter nature, thathe could ;not feei, at least for  h aeowed toyau for respwing her I sworethm
moment, the nohler sentiuments of a right-mind-t would neyer put to "seaagin}till J: a'e
ed man .                          .        t,two men, you, and this rich aristocrat, Ia.rp
"  ay% ~sal why youwhave sought me, sirE' rence, who, because  lass. is youngpa4pretty,
asked Edw rd; "and.o whatI am indebted to nd poor, and without a prtector, he.  dis-
this mazifestation of gratefuldfeeling?7  We are honor with impunity. So you see I to nkboat
ee tinly qui e strangers."                 isa eggoonsA d pulledupfto see y   frst,
" My name is Wynyard, Wat Wynyard," and let you know that;I,       not a mato forget
answer44 the  any-                         aYkintdess done ;to me or mine. N]ow,; i
"4g yoy the    the  etlro hn f Catarin?'n';ie one more shadehands with you, and4thlam
inquiyd Edward, is face xpresi/:of surprise you, infte's  name and my own,. fox yqar
and igetos                                 braye interferenso for her."
. "yes.  Now do you know whylI havesought    "I did no more than my ;uty, .Capt
you ?"


2I                             KATE WYNYARD.
Wynyard, for I think your sister or mother told was turned down stream and the oarsmen giving
me you were a captain."                     way at a signal of their young captain's hand,
"Yes, captain. They are right. I am a the place where their interview had taken place
captain in my way at sea on board my own ship. was left once more in solitude. And while the
Now, sir, as you seem to be going to the col- boat is darting swiftly along between the obscure
leges, I wont keep you longer, as it is getting shores and fading in the gathering twilight from
dark ; but if you will call to-morrow evening at our view as it recedes, we will explain to the
my mother's cottage, I shall be glad to see you reader the circumstances which gave rise to this
there. I would do a good deal to serve you in meeting, and which will afford a key to the bit-
my way.   Kate would like to see you, too."  ter hostility entertained'by Manfred Lawrence.
"I will call if you desire it," continued Ed-  There stands, about twenty minutes' walk
ward, in whose eyes the stranger had interest, from the university, a small cottage directly on
since he had discovered that he was Catharine the banks of the Charles river. It is enclosed
Wynyard's brother.                         on three sides by a garden containing many
"But first tell me where about in this cruis- rose trees, and about the door wind honey-suckle
ing ground this Lawrence anchors ?"         and jessamine mingling their entwining tendrils
"You had best let him go, captain," answer- as they  -arched the door, and in spring-time
ed Edward. "It will only get you into trouble calling  air with their. blended fragrance.
and bring up the matter which a year has nearly There was no air of pretension about this cot-
buried in oblivion. And besides I punished tage ; indeed, it had nothing to recommend it to
him enough for his conduct."               the attention of the passer-by on the water, save
"Yes, you gave him his deserts, and bravely its extreme neatness and simplicity. It was so
too, against odds. But don't interfere with my ancient that its roof was verdant with patches
affairs, if you please. No man shall insult of moss, and its stone chimney peaked at the
Kate Wynyard, and not have to settle the mat- top, told of a fashion of building 'long prior"to
ter with her brother."                      the revolution. And, indeed, from the door of
" hen, if you must see him, you must not the house, 'at the first cry of the alarum, "To
get your direction where- to find him from me," arms ! to arms ! the British troops have fired
atawered Edward,' with a slight smile.  "If upon us at Lexington and killed our country-
you would really, show your gratitude to me, men !" there came from the door hastily attired
y6n wobild oblige me letting the ,affair drop. and armed only with a common gun, the grand-
1e assured he will never approach your sister father of Kate Wynyard, then a man of not yet-
agdwn                                    a thirty years of age. At- the- period of our
t Well, I will think about it. You call and story, the cottage contained but two inmates,
s6e us all to-mborrow night, my brave friend, Mistress Aim Wynyard and her daughter Kate.
atd I'll talk it over then and be guided by you They lived in such perfect retirement that no
and-Kate."                                 one ever saw them, save when Sunday- called
"'I am glad to hear you say so."         them forth tochurch. At such times one would
"Now,  are you walking to the colleges ?"  see the pale and lame mother of the young girl
leading on her youthful arm, and slowly bend-
"I at going back  in my boat, since my ing her way along the 'path that led from the
cr1i&amp;is 'finished on this'tack.  Take a seat in cottage tothe village street; and theUcealong
they stern-sheets with me, and I'll pull you' to the gravelled walk of the street to the church.
Obrlnidge in less time than you can walk it." They were an interesting couple,'and attracted
'The'offer *as made in so frank add cheery attention from the great contrast in their apear-
a manner, that Edward did not hesitate to no' ance, one being broken in body and with alook
edpt it, and' styppitig into the boat, the prow of instantt but patient suffering, the other

KATE WYNYARD.                25

blooming and beautiful, with a step as free as
health and symmetry could make it. The sweet
dependence ~ of the invalid mother upon her
child, and the protecting and affectionate air of
the latter as she carefully led her along, care-
fully avoiding every pebble against which she
might strike her foot, was also noticed by those
who observed them.
"Ah," said a sympathizing dame who was
standing by the church door gossiping with a
neighbor as mother and 'daughter entered the
porch, " ah, Dame Wynyard looks mighty sight
worse every Sabba' day I see her ! Poor wo-
man, she has never lifted up her face since her
son Wat ranoff to sea!"
"-he takes on mightily 'bout it, though she
don't talk 'bout hint since that sailor three years
ago came home and told such a tale 'about
him."
" I don't believe it was ever true," answered
her gossip.
"There is no knowin'. . Folks as goes to the
world's end can do orful things there, and then
come back here as innocent as 'deacons, and
who is the wiser ?" said the other, shaking her.
head.
"Did you see how fine and handsome Miss
Katy is growed'? It strikes me she dresses too
smart for a poor widow's daughter what lives by
her needle."
"Katy is as good as she is purty ; and she's
right, I'm thinkin', to wear what she works
for," answered the woman, quickly.
"Well, well, I only hope , she wont come to
anything out o' the way, 'you know !  There's
plenty o' these rich wild young students as.,
might turn her head if they took a fancy. I
see 'em looking arter her al'ays when she goes
out or comes in to church," Here she drew a
long sigh.
" They'll never do her any harm. It's nat'-
ral for young men to look after a pretty face,
let it belong to gentle or simple," answered the
other, walking info the porch, as the bell ceased
to toyl.
After service was over the young girl who
hzad been the cause of this gossiping, came out

after the crowd had thinned, her mother as usu-
al leaning upon her arm, a sweet picture of 1-
ial reverence. The mother was dressed:in a
plain, neat suit of mourning, in a ,silk. black
bonnet, with a small ruffied .cap encircling, her
face, and giving her a respectable and lady-like
air. She bent over as she walked, her placid,
sorrowful face bent pensively to the, ground.
She assisted her steps with a black stic ,.well
polished with long use. Catharine m o , light-
ly and gently by her side, a head taller than
her bent-down mother. She wore a straw hat
pf the most becoming shape, trimmed with blue
ribbon, 'and adorned--for it was the month of
June-with a- pretty little, bouquet of fesh
flowers. Her face,, seen beneath the .bpnrmet,
was the most beautiful that ever a pottage hat
shaded. Her eyes were a soft, violt blue,
large and frank in their open look;' apmd her
finely shaped nose, and rosy mouth,, sad 4n.
pled chin, to say nothing of her rosy cheeks
and pure complexion, formed a face of surpassing
loveliness. There was not too much softness in
it, as is often the case with the soft, blge-eyed
class of girls, but there was a dash 'of high
spirit in the bright light of her eyes at' times,
that showed she possessed strength and energy
of character, which, if called into action by
sufficient occasion, would make a heroine of her.
She was simply arrayed in white with a blue
belt, and a neat bootee displayed the moulded
shape of the perfection of foot and ankle. With
all the heavenly expression'-of her countenance,
as she leaned towards her mother, smiling and
lovingly as she moved along with her, as if she
knew no other joy than to administer to her
happiness, this was her greatest charm.
There were two young men watching her as
she walked away from the church in the direc-
tion of her cottage. One of them was Edward
Blacklock, the other 1 anfred Lawrence. The
.former seldom remained away from the inn on
Sundays, but a severe storm the day before kept
him in his rooms, and he was therefore at church
with many other students on this day. Though'
we have named only two who were observing the
mother and daughter, there wore ether student.


KATE WYNYARD.

kAT1i * VART .

also admiring and talking in a group together
of :the:beauty of Kate Wynyard.  .
"What is hei- nane '?" asked Manfred of one-
of the young men with whom he was standing,
lieariug the name above spokenby him.
-,Catharine  Wynyard!  What, have you
ben so long in Cambridge, Lawrence, and ,not
'ho* this fair girl''
Have never seen her before.
/i~  h  only appears on Sundays-a sort of a
' int, you see I
""That is *hy I have not before seen her, as
I  usually go to my father's on sundays" an-
swered Manfred; nd as he' spoke  his' eye' fol-
t ir~in the retirig
boved' with wondering tinliration the retiring
foram ofthe widow daughter.  'She is very
handsome. Who and ghat is she?"
"she daughter of the woiian in black that
she is leading," was the answer. ' Poor Peo-
plo4ive by sewingI But' she is beautiful
enogh o b'the belle of Cambridge."
"She is incomparably lovely," answered
1Manfred.  "I could not'keep' my eyes off' o
her in 'church."
4"Ah,-takecare, Lawrence," said his friend,
laughing. "Cupid sometimes shoots arrow
'from cottage windows as well asfrom  palace
"There is no danger of me," he answered
and then tuning away frot'them, he made as
lie was going towards the university ; but having
'rocesee until he had lost sight of the paity
he turned to the right and crossed a green cn
inrkby0path which brought him into a lane
1   traversed this 'until he reached the roa
arwhih he expected to see the widow any
daughter walking.  He was not disappointed
' They were but fifty yards before 'him, slow]
proceeding toward their home, to ascertain th
Iobation of which 'Lawrence had followed then
Edward Blacklock had also been attracted
both by the beauty and filial tenderness of tI
young girl, liehhad seen her when she nter
the' hurch =with her mother, whcg   oraling afail
rstep     r awoul'live fallen on here  ai brepon t
t' te Mejie 'had not '   'ioa n orad i

fold 'return in a grateful smile, a grateful look,
a grateful "'thank you, sir," from the daughter.
There was something in the look, smile, and
tone of voice, that impressed 'him and made' him
feel a great desire to know who the younggirl
was. But he had no opportunity' 'of inquiring
then. After church he saw the i'come ot and
prce    homeward,, and as there chanced- to
stand near him a staid citizen of the town whom
he knew, he asked him who they ware.
" That is the "widow Wynyard and her
daughter."
"She is very infirm."
" Yes. But I knew her, Master Blacklok,
when she was the blithest and 'prettiest lass in
all Cambridge. But she has seen sorrow. She
married' a young fellow who was'too roving to
settle down, and during -the last'war went pri-
vateering and was lost or killed at sea in' the
British- channel."'
"And this is his daughter ?"
"Yes. There was another-a'wild slip of a
lad, just like his 'father. He was the mischief
worker of the- neighborhood till 'his eighteenth
year, when he suddenly ran away to sea=; 'and
as a robbery of a gentleman of his pockefcbook
took place the night before he wentwhy he left
with a bad name; though of course nothing
could be proved, as it was pitch dark 'when the,
f gentleman was stopped.  Since them the widow
g has kept pretty much at home, and this daugh-
, ter' has been an' angel to her."
-,   "Are they very poor'?"
. They are not in debt andrshe owns the
d small cottage 'and hale an acre of garden=where
d they live. It-ivas'=ettled on her, so she has a
1. life-home in' it' fo~ her good -fortune."
y "I am gladto'hear that, for I have-taken a
ie deep and kindly interest in them.  Where do
n. they live ?"
d   "Do you see that group of tall elms about a
e third of a mnile down by the Charles'?"
ad   "'Yes."
se   "Just beyond thet on the very river bank,
he so that you can almost step into the boat from
e    The houe' is  hte and half hid In  wood-

bines, with a somewhat curious old peaked
chimney."
"That is ,it. My tanyard is not far from it."
dI have often passed the house going up and
down ; but all was so quiet one would not know
it was occupied."r
" They live very secluded., They get a corn-
fottable livelihood by embroidering straw. How
is your father, Squire David Blacklock, young
sir? I hope he fares well?"
" Well, I thank you."
" Do you walk towards the university ?"
" Yes," answered Edward, and he walked
by the. side of the communicative tanner until
their roads separated, when he took his way to
the college, thinking more of the sorrows of the
widow than of the loveliness of her daughter.
"I will call by there some evening," 'he -said,
"and purchase a new straw bonnet for my good
mother ; for I feel an interest in them .that I
should like to have ripen to,acquaintance."
Three or four days afterwards, about an hour
before sunset, Edward was walking in one of
the pleasant paths which in every direction in-
tersect the grounds, about the university. His
steps wandered in the direction of the Charles,
when upon looking round he discovered, no
very far distant down the river, the roof of the
widow's cottage. He now recalled his promise
to himself to call there and see them, and 'with-
out further reflection he bent his course along
the river side until he came close to the cottage,
where, at a small paling gate, the path termi-
nated. Here he paused to question the pro-
priety of his intruding in so secluded a place,
andhe was about to chide his.curiosity and turn
away, when the young girl herself, who had
been stooping down and engaged in trimming a
little rose tree, which kept her quite unseen by
I   him, rose up, hearing his retiring steps, and
looked towards him.
"will you come in, sir ?" she said, instantly
recognizing him to be the young student who
had prevented her mother from falling on Sun-
day. She spoke with such frankness, and in
such an agreeable way, that he could not resist;:
anetamern    out a sort of aplgh   pn
ed the _gate, saying :    aooy     eoe-

"I hope your mother got safely home ?"
"Quite so," she answered. "Will you walk
in and see her. She has spoken of you two or
three times."
He entered the humble abode, where the
widow was seated in an arm-chair, assorting
long flat straws. Upon seeing him she quickly
knew him, and said :
" Catherine, get a chair.  I am glad to see
you, sir. You will excuse our littered room,
sir. We do not often have visitors."
"I heard, madam, you braided bonnets, and
I wish to have one made as a present from me
to my mother. I am sure I could find nothing
that would please her better."
Here followed a conversation upon the kind
of straw, whether coarse or fine, the fashion of
the bonnet, the size of the head, &amp;c., in all of
which Edward very prominently manifested an
ignorance that was quite masculine. At length,
however, a bonnet was decided upon, and Ed-
ward promised to bring the measure' of his
mother's crown on the ensuing Monday. This
affair being all arranged to his satisfaction, a very
agreeable conversation now took place between
Edward and the young lady upon flowers, of
which the little garden held a countless variety.
He made so kindly an impression upon them in
the hour that he remained, that when he rose to
leave, as twilight drew  on, the widow invited
him to remain and take a- cup of tea, while
Kate offered for his acceptance a charming bou-
quet. He would gladly have remained, but he
had duties at the college; and promising himself
soon to repeat the agreeable visit, he took his.
leave of them, and went on his way to the uni-
versity, congratulating himself on having found
two such interesting persons as the beautiful
straw braider and her mother. He had not
gone a third of the distance to the college, when
he was met by Manfred Lawrence. It was al-
most dark, yet he recognized him, though the
latter seemed studiously to keep close to the
fence, as if he did not wish to be recognized by
any passers-by. Of coursehhe did not speak to
him, for in the open noon, had they met in the

[

27


KATE WYNYARD-               29

have passed between them only a short formal
nod, hardly enough for courtesy, yet too much
for decided hostility ; for as yet Lawrence had
not found reason to carry in his heart against
Edward the deep hatred which afterwards took
up its abode there.  Without casting a second
thought after his former playmate, or suspecting
anything from his manner of skulking, Edward
took his way to his room, entered it, and gave
himself till midnight to his books.
And did not the sweet face of Kate Wynyard
mingle with the Latin sentences, nor her tresses
intertwine among the Greek roots, nor the tones
of her voice take the place of the voices active
and passive, nor her warm blue eyes peep at
him through the fm    ork of his, diagrams?
asks one of my  sceptible readers.  Not at all.
He studied as  art whole as he ever had done ;
and if he thought of the cottage at all it was of
both its inmates, the pale cheek of the widow
by the side of the rosy cheek of the maiden.
When Manfred Lawrence had followed Cath-
arine and her mother on the preceding Sunday,
he managed so that without being seen by them
to ascertain where they dwelt. He then waited
until night-fall, and under cover of the dark-
ness stole over the wall into the garden and ap-
proached the low window, where he saw a light
burning. It was their usual sitting-room, as
he saw through the trellis of woodbine which
curtained the window, and enabled him to look
in without being . himself seen. He saw an
oval tea table set out, and the lovely girl engag-
ed in making tea. He watched her face, her
every motion, and drank in the intoxication of
her beauty. At length he beheld 'her place a
chair for.her mother and carefully conduct her
to the table, which was frugally spread.  But
he was suddenly awed by seeing the maiden,
after taking her seat, fold her hands together
and.raise her eyes with the expression of a Ma-
donna 'looking upward, .and ask the. Divine
blessing.upon their humble board. For an in-
stant he -shrunk from such purity and loveliness,

and felt ashamed of being there and of his pur-
pose. But he did not obey the impulse of his
conscience to retire from a spot made sacred by
being connected with heaven by the 'silver
chord of prayer. The increased beauty which
devotion lent to her features served :to bind him
firmer to his purpose. And what was this pur-
pose?  He hardly knew himself. He suffered
his feelings to lead him as they would, without
looking forward. It was enough for the moment
to see her, and revel on the gaze 'f her loveliness
unseen. At length, as they rose from the table
and Catharine came towards the window to close
the shutter, he retired and left this Eden, in
which his entrance had doubtless been as evil
in its purpose as that of Satan in Paradise. -:
Circumstances prevented him from again vis-
iting the cottage until the next Thursday even-
ing, when we have, seen Edward, in coming
from it, meet him. -He kept the road with a
swift and cautious step, guardedly drawing near
the fence if any one drew near ; and at length
he came in sight of the cottage. All was quiet
and peaceful. The place seemed the abode of
innocence and virtue, if anywhere on earth.
The moon rose as he reached the gate, and shone
in golden radiance upon the white front and end
of' the cottage, and falling upon the water in a
path of light. The same candle beams shone
through the little window. He drew near, and
entering the unlocked gate, took his former
place at the trellised window. They were both
seated there sewing straw, with a light between
them.  They were talking. He listened:
"I am sure he is an.-excellent, young man,"
said the widow.  "His very attention to a:poor
widow shows it. Some of those students would
have laughed at me instead of helping me when
I was falling."
"He spoke so kindly, as if you had been his
own mother," said Catharine, "I am sure I
shall always like him. I am so glad he called
about the bonnet."       -
"Ah, Kitty, dear, you mustn't be too glad,"

said her mother, with a slow shake of her
head.
" Why not, dear mother ?"
"Because it may lead you to be too lorrow-
ful. You must let him coine, 'and say very lit-
tle more to him, for I see-I see-"
"See what, mother ?" asked the maiden,
coloring deeply..
" See that you think more of him than you
ought to, considering that he is a student, and
perhaps rich, and you are a poor sewing girl.
Let me tell you that if you think of'him and he
does not think of you, you will be very unhap-
py. I tell you now in the beginning, for I
think I see how your heart is working, and I
am pained to see it, not that I do not think he
is a suitable person for you to know, but
your positions are such that he would never
think of returning your affection ; in a word,
my dear Katy, you and he could never be
married."
"Married, dear mother ! Who was dream-
ing of such a thing ?"
"I was, my child, under suitable circum-
stances."
" Well, I am sure I was not," answered
Kate, with a merry laugh. "But I don't think
there is any danger of my falling in love with
any young man who would not condescend to
fall in love with me," she, answered, gaily.
" So when he comes I will leave you and he to
settle the matter about the straw bonnet."
, lay, I do not object to your using proper
eivuuy ; but you must take care of your heart,
Kate. He is so ha     ifine, and interesting,
and kind, that I should not blame you, and do
not blame you, for liking him."
"Why, mother, I have never said I liked
him." -
" Perhaps not. One doesn't always. need
hear a girl's tongue in such a confession, if one
looks first in her eyes."
Here Kate dropped hers quickly, and a sec-
ond time the rich carnation mantled cheek and

r brow. Her mother saw this 'and sighed. At
this moment there was a light tap at the door.
It was Lawrence, 'who having in vain tried to
ascertain of whom they were conversing, now
applied for admission.
" Who can it be so late ?" asked the widow,
with a slightly startled look. "Open and see,
Catharine."
The young girl started back 'with an ex-
clamation of alarm and a slight shriek, as she
saw standing.in the door a young :,man in a
hunter's dress, with his ' face spattered with
blood, while he was supporting one arm by the
other,'as if it were injured.'
I" Do not be frightened, ladies. I have been
hunting, and my gun went off and wounded
me," he said, in a tone and in the manner of
one suffering from a severe wound.
. " 0, indeed, sir !" exclaimed Catharine, in
a tone of sympathy. "Come in, sir. I hope
you are not badly wounded."
"I have come hither to see. I was hurt
about sunset, and have only revived a little
while since and been able to get here."
The widow and Catharine, by every expres-
sion of regret and compassion, showed how
deeply they felt for him; and while one brought
water and a towel to remove the blood, from his
face, which he said had come from his wounded
arm, the other prepared bandages. He, how-
ever, as well he might, refused to have his arm
touched or examined, saying that the pain was
too much for him ; but if they would bind it up
he would rest a little and then try to reach the
college, when he .would send for a surgeon.
The widow would have insisted on sending
Catharine at once, but this he refused to per-
mit ; and after he had remained half an hour
and been refreshed by a glass of currant cor-
dial, handed to him by the fair Catharine, who,
as well as the mother, was wholly unsuspicious
of the deception practised on them, he rose to
go, and saying he thought he should be able to
reach his rooms without any lifficulty. It was

23                 KATE-'WYNYARD.


20               KATE WYNYARD;

'with great reluctance the widow saw-him depart, What a fine girl that is.! She has a heart as
for she feared that he might, fall down on the noble as a Roman. My appearance with the
way ; and so anxious was she that she bade blood of that innocent chicken spattered on my
Catharine watch him for some distance, till she cheg and brow, would have horrified any com-
could no longer see him. - This circumstance mon girl; but after the first start she was as
gave them a theme for conversation the rest of cool as a surgeon. 'The ice is well broken. I
the evening, and they could not help remarking shall now have an excuse for calling there to
to each other how singular it was that two clle- thank them; and if an intimacy between me and
giants should have been at their house the same the fair straw-braider doesn't grow up, it will be
evening,                                   because I have. neither wit,- tact nor courage."
" 'have at least introduced myself to them,"  We shall in the next chapter follow this inti-
said Manfred Lawrence, as he walked towards macy to itsfinal issue, and show that the devices
the university at a pace not anything like that of men do not always keep the beaten paths of
of a wounded and suffering mane " My ruse their passions, but are often turned aside by the
went off well; but I had -deuced hardwork to avenger of the innocent.
keep the old woman from looking at my arm.

-I
CHAPTER IV.
The retrospect renewed.  .Manfred's villdnous designed '2e uzunwary .&amp;ate decoyed.. The
timely rescue.  "The cowardly threat.  The fair   maiden's  gratitude.   Conversation
between the scoundrels, '4&amp;i cient reason of JSanfred's hatred to".Ndward. The odtki.

NE evening; about three months ifter the
time when Manfred 'Lawrence so deceit-'
fully introduced himself to the- noticee of the
fair, straw-braider, he might hate been seen
secretly descending the river in his own boat,-
a gaily painted barge with which he used to'
amuse himself in his leisure' hours.. It *as
rowed by two menu-fellows whom he employed,
and who would do anything for money without
asking questions.:, The that was, stafry aid
clear. itwas the .nioth   Jlrie, and the ait
sot- and balmy.
"'Row closer l!, my rmen; ' he said,.a . they
drew near the cottage; " but don't be ' noisy,
with your oars ! That-will do  Pull in- to this
path and let me land. Now wait hereon yonr
oars with the bows upstrean, and everything'
ready for a sudden starttI " -
'Saying 'these words he jrimped ashore about
fifty yardsJabove the widow's !tottagej -; He ndw
tout to aids it and aenterbdiths ge with a
filiar air1dred eihannar. Hie eated'visits
to the -placieel rhifeirst iihtroductiori- under'

false oolors, had established'a degree of intiina'
cy betweenAhim 'and the' widow"and, her fair
daughter, which rendered hiANisits+ aill times
agreeable 'to them. He:so *ell dissiiulated his
true chara'tei, ise  such ats ,6 plese'them
arid nakh then pleased *iththi, hat they be-
gau to lkM0k upon his vikit  asamatterof course.
Al*iys th w idow treated him *ithi politeness,
and'telly'felttan intfestnnahi from' the air-
uindturices under:*hioh they r tnethirim. But
all his eff &amp; ere'ih+in to iake ..njimr es.
slion uponathaine !is I  'fa ot  Perhaps if
she hadhoei een Edwarddhe might have been
pleaded. and flattered by Lawrence's evident
'regard forSher; but she was mentally contrasting
him with the former, to the latter's disadvantage.
Yet ahe"did" not: dislike 'Wanfred, ad even
walked with him on the ,banks of theriver, and
presented himwith-flowers when he .eat away,
and dyevet failed tb ask him ici i y to come
gtini  Ndverthele's, he believed t itahlliked
him, and took occais   he,)dinin'' to t6Ullyer
howfdevQted helwks-tol biet  ihatead f lis


KATE WYNYABJ                     3

32                 KATE WYNYARD

toning to him with those maiden blushes which
betrayed a heart enthralled, she laughed and
ran into the cottage, leaving him mortified and
angry."
All this while Edward had never met Man-
fred there, having but seldom visited the cot.
tage, and then usually by day, to ask after the
welfare of the invalid mother. From them he
had heard of the visits of the wounded student,
but as he had never given his name he could
not guess who it was, especially as he had never
heard of any one being wounded by a gun. It
chanced that the day on the evening of which
we now see Lawrence land near the house, Ed-
ward had met Catharine going from the town
homeward. He joined her and walked nearly
home with her. During this walk, in reply to
a question from him, she had not,yet named the
name of the young man who had been wounded ;
"But," she added, " he is to bring me some
books this evening, and if you will call you can
then see him."
"I have some curiosity to know who it is ;
for I cannot learn that any student has been
shot ' and, therefore, there seems to be a mys-
tery about the affair that does not look well-
Describe    !"
"He'is ot so tall as you are, sir, nor so well
formed.  He dresses very richly, has two large
rings on his left hand, and carries; a black cane.
His-eyes are very dark, his hair light brown,
his fairs handsome,'but has an unpleasing ex-
pression that:I lo not like. , Yet I do not find
iu him anything unpleasant, to .fTnd fault with.
He pretends," she added, laughing, "to be
very much in love with me or mother."
Will call this evening, Miss Catharine,"
he answered'; "for in :your unprotected 'sitna-
tion, you can't be too carefully watched over by
your friends.'"-1
" Indeed; sir; I wish you were our friend,"
she answered, frankly. "Both mother"snd I
would like to see you often:at'the cottage."
I willat'the least, be there to-night," h(
answered;' touching his hat, and :leaving he
within eight of her home.
The curiosity of Edward was very natural t4

ascertain what student so regularly visited a
house whose inmates so much interested him,
especially as he could not learn that any one
had been hurt. He b lieved, in his own mind,
that, instead of a collegian, it was some person
who pretended to be one, and under this guise
sought to gain the confidence of the family;
some low young man who could be nothing ex-
cept in borrowed plumage. That it was a stu-
dent, or that it was Lawrence, he had not the
least suspicion.
We now return to Manfred. He enteredthe
cottage garden and, opening the door of the
house, entered familiarly. The widow extended
her hand and received him kindly, for in some
sense she always looked upon him  as "the
wounded young man," spoke of him as such,
and seemed to regard him as if he still needed
sympathy and kindness. Catharine did not give
him her hand, but gently smiled and welcomed
him.
"No thanks, my good friend," he said, as he
placed a parcel in her hand; "I have brought
the books we talked about, fair Kate."
"You are very kind,",she said, laying'them
upon the table. ." Why do you hasten ?" a
" I have an engagement which calls tme away
at once. But, I came also to say that it will be
many weeks before I shall see you agai."
"Are you, then, going away, sir ?" asked
the widow, in a tone of mingled surprise and re-
gret.
"Yes, my boat is now at the river bank."
S "I hope you  have a pleasant journey, or
voyage, which ever  be," said' Catharine,,in
the indifferent tone which shows no feeling be-
neath. It convinced him that he was=not loved
by her, and, in his- thoughts, he almost cursed
her coldaess, ashe termed her indifference to his
staying or going.'
"Thanks," he said. "It is a voyage across
[the sea. If you will step to the door I will
show you my boat.' It is a beautiful one'."
e   " I can't well see its beauty in-thedark,,but
r ,I will go, and look at it,'" she said, laughing:
":Good-night, madam" hek said to therwid-
o owed mother whose daughter ruin he wats plot-

ting ; .and, taking her hand, he pressed it with,
an appearance of respectful affection.
He then left the cottage,i;followed by Cathar-
ine, who very good naturedly went to oblige
him, but taking the candle in her hand. Upon,
reaching the boat,, and ere she could begin to
look at it, he knocked the candle from her grasp,
as if it had been accidental, and theh laughing,
he said, taking her hand:
"Never mind'the light ! Come into the boat,
and let me have the: pleasure of rowing you -a
little ways up the river and back again this fine
star-light'night."
Andbefore' he could decline, he;haddrawn}
her into the boat by the hand, and at a signal
from him, the two men pulled dut from the bank.
Little suspecting their object 'she laughed and
saiid :
"You must not row away with me in this
way. I have no wish to sail.  Row back with
me.
Give way, men 1" commanded Maafred, in
a low, eager tone, while his heartbeat high and
his pulse throbbed with the wildest tumult of
mingled joy and'excitement of hope;, "Nay,
Kate, do not -be so anxious to'go on shore," he
said tenderly.  "I wish only to have a few
moments talk with youbefore I leave you !"
""You must turn' back with me instantly,
sir," she said, alarmed by the impassioned tone
of his voice, and by his arm' thrown suddenly
about her waist.
"Nay, but a short distance !"
"Not one foot, sir. Unhand me ! What do
you mean by this violence ? 'Shall I be' com-
pelled, sir, to give an alarm and call'for help.?
I assuredly will do so unless I am 'put on shore.
instantly."'
"Row, hard, men'!-  Do not hear her !" he
said angrily to the oarsmen,, as they seemed to
hesitate.
The boat shot up the stream in the direction
of Grasmere Grove with additionalimpetus. 'See-
irig'this, Catharine 'sprang' from, the seat to
which he was trying to hold her, and now really
alarmed and the truth of his treachery towards
her 'beginning to be too apparent to deceive her,

she uttered a-loud shriek that startled the echoes
of the shore; and strangely broke the stilliees of
the night.
"Help! !help,! 'help !i Save ,me, '0, save
me !" were the words of indignant fear that.
rang wildly through the air.
" Nay, if you aregoing to sing thin:way, my
birdk I shall have to:gag you," said he savagely ;
and -by main force he' threw., around 'her his
cloak and muffed her voice. ;I"Pull for your
lives; men! You shall have. double pay for
double:speed."1
The thrilling cry for aid.had not been.uttered
in'vain.- Edward 'who as weknew bad prowin
ised to pay a-visit to the cottage that 'eyening4
had justreachedthe door, whickwas open, when,
as he 'bade the widow a good evening and was
looking round for her daughter to welcpme him,
the shriek from the water pierced his'ears.,
'"What is that?" cried the widow, pale with
alarn
"It was like a female in. distress !  Where
is Catharine ?" he asked, eagerly.
" Just walked out to see the wounded young
man's boat with him! 'Hark-! It is her voiceI
Mercy, what has'happeried ?"'
But before she had spoken the last words
Edward was)bounding.through the garden, and
leaped the wall on the side; from which, the
shrieks came. He fled along the river shore
like a deer, and soon came in sight of the as-.
cending boat, which, from the quick strokes -of
the oars'and'the rushing keel, he knew was in
flight. He soon got near 'enough to' see that
there were two persons in the stern evidently
struggling with each ;other.: . He 'was  about to
hails when Kate, releasing, her face from the
cloak, sent forth another piercing cry for sue-
cor.
"0, save me ! Edward, where are you?
Save me' from this monster! 0,ny mother"
The voice calling thus in' despairpon his
own name thrilled his lifer blood.., He did not
respbnd,for fear they'might land on-the opposite
shore with her.  But he knew it wasitheatvoice
of {7atharine ;vandire  believed; in.the jiowor
of the person who hq4 yelled himnselfaistudent.

33


34                      I(AMiE, WVNYARD

KATE .WYNYARD.

He was armed enly with a stout eudgel, which
he usually walked wVith. when' out after night;
and he had no boat ; but he recollectedthat not
far above was an old fisherman's hut, 'where he
would be likely to 'find a boat. 'He .glided
swiftly along on the shore until he had got above
the ascending barge, and, reaching the hut,-to
histi-eat joy he'saw -the. skiff tied to the badk.,
With his knife he -cutthe rope,:and without
thinking ofd the odds he 'was about to encounter,'
he launched out into the stream and came hard
on upon the barge just as it was rounding a'
short earte of the 'shore. :He" could see Kate
on her, feet, having.extricated herself from the
cloak, And straggliig-violently to spring into the
rivet, while, her ealls for aid were more wild"
thn before,
"'8top rowing and help me hold her down
and see re her," he heard the voice of Manfred
Lawrence:say, just as he came upon them,: and
before he was seen. The two men dropped
their oars to obey him, and rose to go aft to his
assistance. It was at this moment, like an ar-
row from a bow, the sharp skiff struck the side
of the barge, and Edward,:with his:cudgel up.
lifted, leaped on board. -With one terrible
blow he laid the nearest oarsman in the bottom
of the boat, while 'the other, surprised at the
sudden onset, leaped overboard, and escaped
the stroke which' would have laid him by 'the
side of his dotnrade.
Release 'the maiden, Maimfred Lawre ce 1"'
he cried, asthe bouuded aft-where this personage'
stood holding Catharine i hinigrasp
" 0,'Edward, Edward !' Thank Heaven 1"
she oried, breaking from his paralyzed gr s-and
throwing herself-at the knees of her good deg
liverer,"
" Infernal innkeeper ! Take that for your
interrrence, ried Manfred, now fully recog-
niinghim. Ard as he spoke ha aiimedablow
with astiletto at his breast.  Edward; caught
sighti esthd glancing steel andibar-estedit by"
his ans, in the wrist of. which Mnfredshbathpd
it 'o thei hilt and the  png ovebard and
dove ieneath the water tow ardsithe hn  weh ch
the oarsman had already gained, it being not

twenty feet distant.  Thus Edward Blacklock'
remained sole: master of the field.
"!Safe-safe---safe !" said Catharine, her
tears flowing fast   "Q, how can I thank
you!"
"Not now, Catharine ! Are you much hurt ?"
" No--not much-a little in -etiuggling to
escape from:hin !  O, how'could he have done
this ?"
"Never mind. speaking of it now.- I will
take you home at once..; It 'was ,thegreatest
good fortune,/Catharine, that I chaqced t come
to the cottage. I have feared something likes
this fp6m that mysterious young man. :Is this
the same Ihave driven from the boat ?"
"0, yesyyelte
"Sit down and wrap yourself in this cloak. I
will soon row you home. And you, fellow," he
said to the man who lay in the bottom of the
boat, and who was making amteffrt to rise, "if
you stir one hair's breadth before I land this.
yoing lady, I will bury .this knife, which your
master has driven through my wrist, n your
heart!"
Atthis menace the man's restlessness ceased,
and, taking the oars, Edward turned the boat
about, and rowed dbwn the river. The forms of
the two men could be seen standing on the bank
and low mutterings were audihle.  As Edward
rowed off with the rescued girl and. the cap-
tured boat, Manfredealledmutto ln, savagely:
" We shall meet again, sir, to settle thei mat-
ter. You are victor to-night, but my turn, will
eome!"
" He will take your life, 'sir," said the,
alaw~med CaCharide,onlbearing thisthreat. "For
me you have yet:more danger to combat."
"He will do nothing.  He dare do nothjpg.
He knows that by this act of tonight he has
laced himself in my power.  He, then, isthie
young man who came to your house, wounded,,
*nd has so long: been visiting there "
" Yes, but I never liked hin. There ws.
on: the cont ry, something in, his voie and
inner that{repelled toe  aBut' he came ;frt to
" 'He' hasi never been wounded, thi is eer-

taint !-Did you see a wound that night V"
asked Edward, as he continued pulling the
boat.
"No. I recollect that he refused to have it
examined by my mother."
For a very good.'reason. - I do believe,
Catharine, that he pretended all this to open a
way for the visits he has subsequently made at
your house."
But his hand and face were covered with
blood.'
That was easily counterfeited. I know'
this young man's character, so well that he is
capable of anything.  You have made a great
escape. HoW eruld you'be so ,imprudent as to
sail with hi?"'
Her(3atharine acquitted herself by explain.
ingthe manner she had been drawn on board
after the candle had been struck out of her
hand. She ended with pouring out the most
fervent expressions of heartfelt gratitude to Ed-
ward as her preserver, while she earnestly beg-
ged him to let her take one of the oars, showing
the deepest solicitude for his wounded wrist.'
It is nothing, Catharine. We are nearly
down to your house. I hear your mother's
voice calling. She is- safe, and will, in a mo=
meant be min your arms,"' he answered. The
next moment they touched the shore opposite the
cottage, and daughter and mother wept in each
other's embrace, altlkdgh the'latter was notyet
aware of the precise nature otthe peril in which
her child had been placed.
"Now, fellow, you may take your'employer's
boat iick to hii," said Edward, stepping on
shore and givig the barge a shov4 with hisfoot'
out into the stream. The man got to his feet,
and, mutterng curses loud and deep against him
as he entered'the cottage with' the females, he-
resuied th'e oars arid=slowly and'heavily pulled
up the Aver;"and' soon after reached a;' }point
where Manfed and the other oarsman, whohad';
followed down the stream, on the watch, were !
in waiting.
"So, Dick, he let you bring the boat back,"
said Manfred.

attack us three from a skiff in that style," re-
sponded the man as he pushed the nose of the
'boat in towards the bank on whichthey. stood
"He has given me a, knock in the side of the,
head that wont get well in a day.' Do yue
know who he is?"
" An infernal innkeeper's, son," answered
Lawrence through his clenched teeth. "I don't
see what the fellow had to do to. be about here
just at this time ! He shall pay for it ! Did the
girl go into thecottage?"
"Yes."-
"And did he also ?"
" He shall rue this night's work:"
"He was wounded. He said your dirk went
through his a'rm !"
"I knew'it must have struck him deep, fori
could not draw it out. Iwish it had gone through
his heart."
"]Better luck next time, sir," answered they
man.
"If I hadn't jumped overboard when I saw
'is club coming down, I should have 4gt a
broken head. He fought like a lion ! - I like a.
man that, has pluck and can fight'!'
"Do you mean any reflections upon me,' fb
low?" fiercely: handedd Manfred, who was in
no amiable mod just now.
"No, indeed, sir. I don't' think you could,
have done better than you did, sfr, he came
down uponus 'o sudden.   I didn't se, the
boat till it was alongside.
"Nor did I," answered Manfred. "Our
game is u for to night. Bub  do'not giveim
up ,fbr aye. I will have the girl= and have his
life. You may pull the boat up home; Dick'
will remain here with Ket."       '    '
theman obeyed, and soon disappeared with
the boat;7while Ma fred, turning to'his compau.
" We must both waylay-this Bhakloek."
$Gladly t answered Ket. " But I hevo no'
weapons but a boat knife."
" Nor have I any at all. But he must be
waylaid. We will strike him down with rocks.
He will soon leave for the college."


36                JCATE WYNYARDT

They armed themselves with heavy pieces of
rook, and, all wet as they were, they placed
themselves in the way which, Edward; must use
in going away from the cottage. But'they were
disappointed in' their purpose ; for so alarmed
was the widow that Edward promised that he
would remain and watch till daylight,'which he
did, though suffering from the wound in his
wrist; ,so atmidnight Lawrence departed with
threats for a better time.
We have now shown our readers the, cause of
Manfred's hostility towards Edward, and /the
reason of the gratitude expressed by Captain
Wat, the brother of Catharine.  But we "will
add a brief notice of an: interview that .took
place the' following day between Edwar4 and
Lawrence.   The latter, about ten o'clockin the
morning,"was pacing up 'and down his room, ill
at ease, and planning vengeance against Black-
lock, and further schemes to get possession of
the person of Kate Wynyard... A knock at his
door drew his attention; and before he could
say " come in;". it was opened and Edward
Blacklook entered. He not only entered, but
closed the door behind himself and locked it.
The surprise of 'Lawrence at his entrance, and
at'this act, cannot be pictured.  His first im-
pulse of fiery rage, on beholding him, was
checked on witnessing the cool andsdetermined
looking of the:door. He stammered out. some
words of surprise and resentment, but Edward,
standing erect like a true man who fears ,io one
in the cause of right, fixed:his, clear eye: upon
him in a manner that a human eye had ,,never
regarded him before, He tried to meet it and
keep his;eye full upon his, but unable to with-
standiits searching and majestic light, he dropped
his own beneath them.
"Manfred Lawrence, I have come hither to
say icoyou but a very fewt;words.:, hey are
these.  Your name, your liberty are bothaimy
keeping, after last night'e work. .Now air,..I
have no wish to deprive t you. of ither.  But
you must, here, in this room, swear tome that

you will never approach that cottage again, or
harbor any evil designs against any one of itsw,
helpless inmates, or I swear to you 1 will, ere
an hour passes over your guilty head, enter a
complaint before a magistrate in their behalf, that
will result in your arrest iand imprisonment for
the outrage you have committed."
"I will not be browbeaten," answered Man-
fred, pale as snow, while his lips trembled with,
passion.
"I care not what you will not be. This in.
stant swear what I have- dictated-swear -by
your hope of heaven and your dread- of judg-
mentto come, that you will never harm or speak
to either' of those,-females ttgain; but forever
abandon all evil design against them.",,
"And whatwill you ido if I refune to swear?
Shootome down, 'I suppose,'" said the cowardly
Lawrence, with a sneer.
' No. I come not here armed with any other
weapon, save moral force," answered Edward.
:" Ha! Then you are in my power," he
cried quickly, iopeaing and taking out a pistol,.
and presenting it at Edward's breast with a wild
leer of ,triumph.Y ou must swear now, serf !"
Without hesitation, Edward sprang forward
in the-face ,ofthe muzzle, and ca4ehing it by the
barrel, he wrenched it from his grasp anddashed
it tt the floor behind him.
" Art thou not ,hamedk after this, to call
thyself a gentleman ,'t    enough.   I 'can
.have fewwords with such as thou hast proved
thyself. Take the oath !"' This was spoken
with authority.
" I swear," answered Lawrence, with a hus-
ky voice, lookingas pale as ashes.,
* "Enough.     See that' thou break not the
oath;" ,answered Edward, unlocking the door.
and goingout withoutlooking behind him._
From this hour theteader ,ay well .suppose
;the young men were deadly .enemies..,Here, is
the key'of Manfred's bitterness against, Black-
lock when his sisterspoke of him at the river,
which took place some months after the events

we have been narrating in the episode comprised I'd just fallen.in with her on a cruise long shore
in this and the precedin g chapter.         home. And as for Kate, she's got to be areg-
We have already alluded to the unlooked for ular 'built beauty."
return of Catharine's brother from foreign ports,  " She is a very'amiable girl."
and of the communication to him, first by his  '" She ought to be, for she was a fine girl
mother and then by Catharine, of the cireum- when she was-younger. 0, sir, I ought to be
stances above ;related ; and we have seen his a happy man; to have a mother that loves me do,
prompt conduct in seeking out, the very next and such a fine sister, who thinks the world of
day, Edward, to thank him, and Lawrence, to me."
punish him.  We have also seen how he yield- ' " I hope you are happy, sir."
ed to Edward's wish to abandon his latter inten-  "It isn't mothers and 'sisters can make a man
tion, and' returned homeward down the river feel happy, who has lived such a life as I:have.
with his boat, taking Edward with him, in order But that's nothing here nor there.:. The devil
to land him nearer the colleges. , We now re- is n't so bad as the painters make him look in
sume the, thread of our narrative.          their pictures I"
After Edward had taken his seat.in the boat  These irrestrainable reflections upon some
with Wat Wynyard, and was moving down the scene'or scenes of his past or present course of
river, the conversation naturally turned upon his life, fully established in Edward's mind the im-
return home.                                pression which the reckless expression of his
" When did you say you returned to your face fixed there from the first. He now recol-
mother's house ?" asked Edward.             lected that it was said he had left the country
" Only yesterday, shipmate, and I have taken because be had committed, or was supposed to
but short time to see them, for I must be off in have committed, a highway robbery ; and he be-
three days."             ,'                lieved that he alluded to this. He was, however,
" Your mother will be very sorry to have you silent. The boat still glided down the starlit
depart, as, doubtless, she was joyful to see you." river until they reached the cottage. Here they
".Joyful!  You should have seen her ! You landed, and, at his invitation, Edward went in to
see I pulled my boat up) alongside the garden, congratulate the widow and her daughter upon
and fastened it on the very old horse shoe I the return of the son and brother.
nailed on a timber when I was a boy.     I ' "4), it is a great blessing, Mr. Edward,"
walked up to the"cottage very quietly, and the answered the widow.  "It makes me seven
door being opened, I saw my mother sitting in it years younger."
braiding something.  She looked up and taking  " I wish to show you," said Catharine, "the
sight at me twice pretty hard, she uttered a cry- beautiful presents my brother has brought me
that you might have heard a mile in a gale o' from foreign lands."
wind, and the next moment I had her in my     " I should like to see them very much," he
arms.  Then came my sister, and between the said ; and, going to a bureau, she drew forth a
two I thought I should never see the blue water box filled with the most elegant jewelry, which
again. "                                    to Edward's eyes seemed invaluable.
" Then they knew you at once."              " They are not much," answered Captain
"Off hand.   So you see, though I have n't Wat.  "I bought ,some of them, in Gibraltar,
been following exactly the course I ought to all some in London, and every port I made, Ial-
my life, I haint altered much. But my mother ways bought something for Kate. 'So, you see,
looks bad ; I would hardly have known her if they've got to be quite a box full."
3

-K T:W WYNA =ABA.                        37


38                 KATEWYNYARD.

r "And you must see my presents, too, Mr.
Edward, when you have done admiringKate's,"
said the happy mother.  "Bring the little ma-
hogany trunk, Catharine."
-The maiden placed before her mother a curie,
ously shaped casket of almost 4 black color.
This she unlocked, and displayed a pair of
bracelets of large pearl; gold watch, set with
rubies ; a brooch of pearls, and other jewels.
"But this is not all," said Kate, placing be.
fore him:two very beautiful pieces of black silk.
"Here are two dresses which brother has brought
mother; and also there are twofor me."

"Your brother has certainly shown his affec-
tion,',' said Edward, with an improved impres-
sion of the young sea rover.
" I have nobody to care for, or that cares
for me," said Wat,." but mother and Kate ;
and if I have money I spend it for them. Be-
sides, Kate shall have a marriage portion. To-
morrow I am going to see a lawyer up in town
and have six thousand hard dollars put in bank
for you, girl, if you marry to please mother,
here ; and I have four thousand more to settle
on mother, Mr. Blackloek, so she wont have to
work any more.

CHAPTER V.

A scene of noble-heartedness. Description of the schooner, etc., and a visit on board.

DWARD had no sooner heh~ra the young
seaman speak of these large gifts to his
mother and sister, than, heartily ashamed of
having formed any prejudice against him, he
grasped both of his hands warmly, and said:
"You are a true son and brother, Captain
Walter. 1 know your filial generosity.'
"I am only doing my duty. I came home
for nothing else in the world than to'bring this
money while I had it; because' a sailor lives
such a wandering and precarious life, if he is
rich to-day, he may be poor to-morrow as a
church mouse."
"Ah, my dear boy ! Heaven willreward you
for all this. Mr. Edward, it seems like a dream
to me. Yet there is my boy before me, and I
hear his voice, which I never expected to hear
again."
"Let Mr. Blacklock see your gold, brother
Walter," said Catharine..
"If he cares 'to; but I dare say he has-seen
.more gold than this. It is a large sum to you
and mother, Kate, but where Ihave been,
it would not be much- thought of."
Thus speaking, he rose and went into the in-
ner room, and beckoned Edward to follow him.

Here were two boxes of thick wood, strapped
with iron, save the lids, which were made to.
slide Wff. One of them the sailor removed, and
exhibited to the amazed eyes of the young col-
legian a larger amount of goldthan he ever
expected to see together. He took up several
of the pieces. They were coins of every land,
Portuguese, English, French, Spanish, Moorish
and Brazilian, but note American. Many of
the pieces he admired for the beauty of he in-
signia royal and imperial stamped upon their
faces.
" Your arrival was a happy day to your noth-
er, captain," said Edward, with hearty gratifi-
cation, as he re-entered the sitting-room, "1
wish you joy, Mrs. Wynyard."
"Indeed you may, sir, indeed you may;"
she answered.
"I will now bid you good night all," said
Edward.
"Do not go yet," interposed Catharine.
"I must be at my rooms before nine."
" I will walk on a bit with you, master," said
the young seaman, as Edward left the door of
that happy home.
" Now, my good friend and shipmate," said


40               'KATE WYNYARDK

Captain Walter, as they walked along through
the garden side by side, " I want to ask youc
one question, and I want a frank, shipshape re.
ply."
" You shall have it, captain," said Black-
ock, smiling.t
"How are you off for the larzjon?"
"Do you mean money ?"t
Yes. Are you poor?    Now don't take it
aback that I'm so blunt."
",No; I am neither poor nor rich.  My fath-
er is in moderate circumstances, and he supports
me. I have no wants."
"But you are not rich."
" Why, no."
"That is what I thought Students must have
money.   One of these days you'll want to lay
- up in port three years to study law, or gospel, or
doctoring, or some profession. You must live
Now don't make me mad by saying no, when I
ask you if you will take the balance of my spare
cash."              .-
" Indeed, captain, you-"
"Wait till I tell you how much it is, before
you begin to refuse. I brought with me fifteen
-thoisand dollars. Ten of it I have given to
my mother and sister, all to be banked regular-
ly for 'em to-morrow.. I have five thousand
left. Now I shall want about twelve hundred
to make some purchases of provisions is Bos-
ton, for my schooner, and the balance is yours."
jMine?  0, no, captain."
"Don't make me angry, master Edward. I'll
do .as I please.  You have done .me and mine'
a service that money don't 'begin to. pay for.
But then, I can make you a present if I choose,
and I can do what I will with my own. That
money, I have made up my mind, -shail be
yours So you need not say one word."
" I will say two words, though, my worthy
Captain Walter, and they are 'no, sir,' " he
continued firmly.  "I must offend you if you
will get offended, but I cannot acceptthismon-
ey.  ly parents supply me with all I need.-
ay, you must take my refusal kindly."
'-"Well, have your own way.. Proud as Lu-
gisr ycu young students are."

"No, it is not pride, and yet it is. But I
cannot consent to take this money from you.-
You will need it. Go place it in the bank for
yourself some rainy day"
"4o, no ! if you wont take it, I will give it
to Kate."
" That will be right. It is just for a sister
to share a brother's earnings-but-"
"Earnings ! well-so they are, I suppose,
for I have done enough for the gold," he mut-
tered in tones not perfectly audible to Ed ward.
" Well, I don't think any the worse for your
refusing. I like your independence. Now let
me tell you, if we shouldn't see each other
again, that if you are ever in trouble, and Wat
Wynyard can help you, call on him. He's
your man-"
"Thanks, my brave friend. But I trust I
shall never be so straitened as to have to
prove your sincerity."
"There's no knowing. But how would you
like to ,take a row to-morrow evening fiofm the
cottage, with mother, and Kate, and myself,
down to my schooner ?"
"Where does she lay?"
In the river, just above the mouth, in the
first bend 1My men are taking in fresh water
and fresh grub, there. Though I say it, you
will see as pretty a bit of a salt Water craft, as
ever floated."
- " I will come down to the cottage. At what
hour?"
" At four bells."
"That is what o'clock ?"
" Two.".
"It is too early for me to leave the univ -
sity."
" Say four, then."
"I will be there at that hour to go with you."
"That is hearty. I shall expect you."
With these words he shook. Edward by the
hand, and parted from him returning towards
the cottage. The former walked briskly for-
ward towards the university, reflecting upon the
xtraordinary offer made to him by the young
seaman, and wondering in what manner he had
acquired so much wealth in gold, in seven

years' absence, and at the generosity which
could bestow the whole at once, upon his moth-
er and sister, and upon one, which he might
not, after leaving Thursday, which was the day
he was to sail, ever see again.
These sailors are queer fellows," he said,
as he reached the stile which led into the college
campus, " and if they get their money easily,
it goes easily. He seems to have a dash of
bold sincerity about him, that belongs to his
class, but with all, there is in his face a look 1
do not like. He seems to shun a clear, open
gaze, as if he had secrets he was afraid could
be 'read in his eyes by observers. But perhaps
I am doing him injustice, and thinking unchar-
itably of one who would have shared liberally,
with me. For Catharine's sake, and that of
her mother, I rejoice.  They will now be com-
fortable for life."  His thoughts of Catharine'
now reverted to Isabel Lawrence, and with a
quicker throbbing of the heart, he entered his
room.
The succeeding afternoon about half past
five o'clock, a young man in a blue jacket and
Spanish hat, which broadly shaded his eyes,
was standing, with a glass at his eye, on the
quarter-deck of a neat, clipper-built schooner,
topsail rigged, which was riding at anchor, near
the entrance of Charles river, about three hun-
dred .yards south of Lechmere Point. The
vessel was about one hundred and seventy tons
burden, and lay exceedingly low in the water,
so'much so, that it was easy to step from  her
gangway into a boat alongside, without descend-
ing but two steps. The schooner was a model
of symmetry and nautical beauty. Her masts
were long and whip-like, and raked far over her
stern, giving her a"wicked, piratical air that' ex-,
cited no little curiosity among those who ob-
served her, to know what she was, and what her
business was there. Even the curiosity extend-
ed to the revenue vessel commanded by the
veteran Sturgis, who sent a boat round from
Boston harbor to spy and report. Bat nothing;
could be discovered to authorize capture, for her
papers were all regular, showing, as her con-.
mander stated, that she was a Portuguese yes-

I -

sel, who was waiting there to receive on board a
bearer of despatches from the Portuguese nit-
ister at Washington, to his government ; and
that she ha"d chosen that birth only for the
convenience of taking on board fresh water.-
The vessel being moreover armed with four
twelve pounders, gave good cause for inquiry
and curiosity. But as the revenue officer who
boarded her, pronounced her "all right and
ship-shape," of course she ceased to be an ob'
ject of suspicion, while she continued, as all
foreign vessels do, to remain an object of curi-
ous interest. On the day in question, when we
introduce to the reader her lieutenant in corm-
mand, watching the upper waters of the river
through his spy-glass, many country folks were
on the shore gazing at her, and remarking upon
the red and yellow caps of the men who walked
about her decks; and several boats, some laden
coming down the river, and others ascending
light, laid on their oars to watch her, and com-
ment upon her beauty and outlandish air.
About a dozen men altogether could be seen
on her decks, working about them, -patching can-
vass, reeving rigging into blocks, and busying
themselves in the hundred and one petty duties
always to be done aboard a vessel just in from
sea, or soon about to sail. Some of the crew
during the day had pulled ashore several times
with their water casks, to fill them at a spring
not far from a farm house, when, though they
behaved very civilly, the good farm-folks watch-
ed them at a safe distance. But one or two
young men who approached them nearer, said
they wePe all dark, swarthy men, and spoke in
an unknown lingo, save one with a terrific
beard, who made a wretched attempt to make
himself understood by them, in a language
which gave one broken English word, for every
forty of his own tongue.
At the time we present our readers on board
this vessel, the duties of supplying her with
fresh water and fresh provisions were over;
and with her boat called aboard, and hanging
from the quarter and stern davits, for she had
three boats, she lIty as if waiting for some per-
sons to come on board. That they were ex-

KATE W NYARD.


pected from above the river was very evident,
by the earnest gaze which this young officer
scanned that direction from the vessel. While
he has his glass at his eye, we will describe his
appearance.
He was slightly made, but rather tall, dress-
ed,, as we have said, in blue jacket and trowsers,
with a Spanish sombrero shading his face. He
was not of the country of the dark-looking men
on board; ,for his complexion was fair, his
cheeks ruddy, through the slight tan upon them,
his hair very light, long and flowing, like flax,
- his eyes as blue as the sea which was his home.
His age was not above twentyone, for he had
no sign of beard or moustache.  The expression
of his countenance was remarkably resolute, and
his face would have been eminently handsome,
but for a scar that crossed his left cheek.  He
had a daring expression to his face, as if he
were ready to venture his life any moment, and
would enjoy himself most when the excitement
of danger ran highest.
Not many feet from him   was seated on the
arm-chest, a man of very different appearance.
Be was very short, very fat and large, and had
an enormous double chin, beneath which grew
a reddish white goat's beard, long and peaked.
His, face was round as the moon, and his fore
head, wide and low, projecting over a pair of
shall, straight eye-brows, beneath which danced
a pair of small gray eyes, full of merry light,
yet the expression of his thick lips showed that
lMke all other men of human mould, he could b
ulIen andhard-headedon suitable and sufficien
opepions; nevertheless, the ,permanent expres
siopi of his face was mirthful., He was dresse
in aglinen jacket, that scarcely compassed on
hald of his capacious abdompn ; wore a pint
shirt with a pink ruffle, and a huge came
breast-pin, on which was represented Dan Cupi
irth his bow at his ear, aiming an arrow dea
aghe .wearer's heart.  About his neck was
heavy thain of Guinea gold, and appended i
its vario  ,charms such as thesacred beanc
Oqngola, ,the blood stone which.brings goo
luek, little silver ,moon forfair, winos; and
pross for -universal protection, with a little e

ony heathen god or two. The fat fingers of
this gentleman's left hand were adorned with
rings as heavy as sovereigns. He wore white
duck pants, and- green morocco  shoes with
buckles. Altogether, .he was a very respecta-
ble and queer looking individual in his way.-
He was at the present time engaged in smoking
a cigar, and in looking across the Back Bay at
Boston, with its spires, domes and thousand
roofs, as if he admired the view, which has few
equals in the American Union.   -
"The captain is coming," suddenly said the
young lieutenant.
"I am glad of it," responded the gentleman
with the talismans about his neck, breaking his
reverie to turn and look up the river, "we shall
'now know when we are to get out o' these wa-
ters. I don't think it will be over safe for us
to lay here long."
"And pray why not, major ?" said the young
man, still looking throughhis glass, "stand by
at the gangway to receive the captain," he gave
orders, "he has two women in the boat, and a
shore gentlemaai."
" Vomen ?" echoed Major Dyrfel, for such
was his name and title, nautical man as he was,
"I must spruce myself up    You dark ball,
bring me my looking-glass and comb.  Vomen?
f The captain is a lucky man!"
The personage addressed as "dark ball,"
was a native African lad, who was formed far
more like an ourang outang than a man. He
e was about sixteen years old, with flexible joints
t and flexible muscles, so that it would seem to
- be the easiest thing in the world for him to tie
d himself into a knot like . a pair of stockings.
e His face was hideously, black, and with a mon-
k strous mouth, flat nose, and narrow, Chinese
o looking eyes, he was by no means the most pre-
d possessing young gentleman it. has been our
d privilege to meet with. He.was dressed in a
a suit of scarlet flannel from head to foot,nand his
0. black,,naked feet andhis black head-and hands
of At the various extremities, contrasted oddly with
d the flaming ,hue iii which his own taste, or the
a whim of the'captain, saw 41t to envelope him.
b- Hie obeyed 'the ,order .given by Mr.. Derfyl,

i
i
t
r
t
S
P
I
''nF
rf
f
,
2k
P
, yyy
t
N

KATE WY

and brought him a three cornered fragment of a
looking-glass, and a comb which had but -five
and a half of its original score of teeth remain-
ing.
"Dee dar, mashoo," he said, speaking from
his throat in a tone as if it was filled with pud-
ding.
'Hold up the glass, black, so ; now let me
see how I look to receive the ladies. Bless me,
it's a werry long time since I have seen a shore
lady !"
"If you haven't seen shore ladies, major,"
said the lieutenant, smiling, "pray what other
ladies would you be likely to see. Old women
don't ship before the mast, yet, nor young wo-
men-for royal boys." -

"Mermaids, lad, mermaids is sea-ladies."
"Schooner ahoy !" came sharp and clear
from a boat on the water.
" Ahoy !" responded the lieutenant, with
alacrity.                              .
The second lieutenant Derfyl sprung-to his
feet without completing his sentence, and has-
tened to look over the quarter railing into the
boat, while the other proceeded to the gangway
to receive it.-
The party was soon on board.  Captain Wat
presented his first lieutenant as Kirk Cresswell
to his mother and sister, and his second as the
"major."   The latter bowed to the mother with
his eyes on the : daughter, and then whispered
aside to the lieutenant :
" Almost as handsome as a mermaid-if she
only had green hair."
" I wouldn't give a glance of her{ living eye
for all the -mermaids in ths sea,- that one can't
see till he is drowned."
Captain Wat, after showing his vessel to his
mother and sister, and explaining many;things
to Edward, who was half in love with, a tea-
man's life at what he saw,,took them down jntp
his cabin.  It was, to be sure, -a small one,.but
neat,- and fitted up with some . pretensions to ex
nament.- Here he;placed before gem figs, 4ates
and raisins, all ,of which -he said he had seen
growing on trees and vinesin foreign lands;
and he did not forget to bring forth from his
stores a bottle of rich wine.

KATE WVNYARD.

NYARD.                                  43
" And this is your vessel, my son," said the
happy widow, looking around her.
" Yes, mother."
"And why do you carry .those large guns,
brother ?' asked his sister, who seemed as per-
fectly hap  as her mother, though a shade of
some unpleasant, inward, secret feeling was
perceptible to Edward's more watchful eyes on
the young captain's face. It rather dwelt abid-
ingly in the eyes' depths, than showed itself on
the surface. It was visible behind all his
smiles ; and Edward could not help saying to
himself, "he is-either a very unhappy, or per.
haps a guilty man."
At length, the visit was over; and as it grew
dark, Captain Wat prepared to return up the
river by moonlight. Edward left the schooner
almost fascinated with the life of a wanderer on
the ocean, and half of a mind to yield to old
Davy Blacklock's wishes, and enter the navy
if he could obtain a berth therein. This he ex-
pressed to the captain as they rowed up the riv
er, while Kate put in her objections at once, and
said that the sea would never suit him, "she
knew."
"You shall have free passage with me, Mas-
ter Blacklock, if you wish to go,".said Captain
Wat.
I am  half a mind to take you at your
word."
"0, no, Edward--no I" exclaimed Kate.
"But where are you to sail from here,?"
" Where ?. First to-to Portugal I I did not
tell you' that we were waiting here for despatch-
es from Washington, to take them to Portugal."
" Ye, you did. Do you sail for Lisbon ?"
" Direct. After that, we shall take a run
down the African coast, to Mogadore."
"I envy your privilege. to go thus about the
world," raid Edward, and if I were free frqmn
the university to-morrow, I should be terrppted
to take at least one cruise with you."
Little did he suspect how soon be, ibld he
made free by his destiny to yield to his wish to
roam.
They soopi handed at, the cottage,. and. Ed.
ward, parting from them, sought once more th9
retirement of his rooms.


CHAPTER VI.
Infuence of his visit on the young student. , Manfred Lawrence again. Encounter with
Wynyard. Sad' intelligence. A phase of   Kate's heart. A  death scene.  Sympathy
of Isabel. A   deeply interesting conversation.

T    HE visit which Edward had made to the
warlike and beautiful clipper schooner,
the free and independent mode of life which
one who commanded a craft like that must lead,
the liberty to visit whatsoever sea or land the
henrt wished, were ideas that took a fast hold
upon his mind after his return to the college.
they were inflamed by an interesting recital of
his adventures, which, (n the next day, the
captain, who called to his rooms to see him,
gave of his adventures in foreign lands.'
But," said he, " but, captain, in what ca-
pacity could I sail with you, if I should get
myself into the mind ?" He said this smiling-
ly, for he had no idea of leaving college, a few
months in which would complete his course ;
though at the close of his collegiate course he
began to think he should turn his face towards a
nautical career.
"You may go as passenger."
" Thai would be an idle life ; and besides I
have not the fortune to play the gentleman
sailor, nor indeed have I the inclination; my
mind is of to6 active a turn for that."

"I will makeyou my third lieutenant, and
give you pay accordingly; and one of these
days, when you learn to sail a vessel, you can
easily get command of one."
" Yes. I should like the command, I dare
say, much better than climbing the ladder
to it."
" A couple of voyages would make a good
seaman of you."
" So soon. Ah, Captain    Wynyard, you
tempt me. But there is one question I have
not asked you.  ln what trade do you sail, usu-
ally ? You are not always coming after bear-
ers of despatches ?"I
"No, that is true.- I follow the best fortune
that offers. Sailors sail the world round in
search of fortunes. Should I have an offer, on
reaching Portugal, to take a message to Brazil
for rich pay, I should accept it. I follow the
curent of fortune. We seamen are as ineon-
staat as the winds. Who' is that young man
crossing the green ?" asked the captain, who
was seated at the window in Edward's room.

KATE WYNYARD.               46

"That is Manfred Lawrence "
The captain's eye flashed fire. His brow
colored ; and springing to his feet, he was rush-
ing from the room, when Ed ward placed himself
between him and the door.
" Do nothing rash, my dear captain. Re-
member your promise made to me."
"True,"' answered the captain.  "But I.
would give my right eye to meet that man on
the open sea. What a haughty port. I like,
him not."
"Nevertheless, do not avenge yourself upon
him for the act he has already been punished
for by me. It will' only bring your innocent
sister's name up unpleasantly before the public
eye. "
" Well, for your sake, I will let it drop at
present."
"And forever, I trust "
"That may be as we chance to cross each
other's paths," answered Wat Wynyard, reseat-
ing himself; but he soon after rose and said he
would go down to the cottage to tell his mother
he had placed the money in the bank all ship-
shape, and they could draw for it all, or part,
or only the interest, just as they pleased.
"I will accompany you," said Edward, who
feared his sudden departure had connection with
his recent view of Lawrence, and that he would
seek to cross his path.
"Very well--come."
So Edward proceeded with him towards the
cottage ; and half way there they met Lawrence,'
face to face, crossing the road by a path that
led towards a by-street of the town. He passed
them with a scowl of fierce hatred upon Edward,
and a look of keen curiosity at his companion.
This scrutiny roused the tiger in Wynyard's
breast, and he drew up before him and said, in
a tone as high and bold as a man could use :
"You seem to wish to know whoI am by the,
out of your eye. I will tell you. I am Wat,
Wynyard, the brother of the maiden you had
the insolence to give your thoughts to. *Stop,
sir iIf you pass on beforeI tell you what you
are, I will pistol you I" and the captain present-
ed a pistol at his breast. Lawrence stepped

back and turned as pale as death. Edward
sprang forward and laid his hand upon the
muzzle.
"Captain, what did you promise me 2"
"Promises are idle words with my foe before
my eyes," answered the captain ; releasing the
pistol from his grasp. " I will not harm him if
he stands and hears me. But by all that is
above I will shoot him through the heart if he
budges one inch."
" This is your cowardly work, Blacklock,"
said Lawrence, pale with fear and rage. "You
have told him of this, when you swore you
would keep it a secret."
" It is false, craven I" cried Wynyard. " He
has never breathed it to me. On the contrary,
he has kept me from doing you the harm my
duty and honor as a brother tells me I owe you.
Stand there-! Now, do you not think you ought
to be ashamed of yourself, to creep into a widow's
house and rob her of her only daughter ? and
seek to rob that daughter of her honor?-...man
-beast--worse than murderer?  Thou wouldst
have brought the widow's gray hairs down to
the grave with sorrow and shame, and covered
the daughter with irreparable infamy and degra-
dation ! Yes, you, you, would have done this,
and meditated to do this, but for the courage of
this noble young man, in comparison with whom
you are as a black devil compared with an angel
of light. Go !  I have done with theeI Go,
toad, serpent, brute ! Go, and remember that
innocence will always have its avengers !"
He put up his pistol, and Lawrence, almost-
livid with rage and terror, walked rapidly oh
his way, his mortification deepened not only by
seeing this public disgrace witnessed by Edward,
but by some four or five persons who chanced
to be on the roa4 and near at the time.
"I am sorry you have done this thing, Cap.
tain Wynyard," said Edward, as they walked
on together.
"I could not help giving him a few words of
my mind. I feel better now. I shan't trouble
him again, you rhay depend upon that."
Edward was about to express his hope that it
would end here, when one of the stable boys of


KATE WYNYARD.               47

the Brown Bear came galloping up the road, within her own. She felt he regarded her only
mounted on a plough horse without a saddle. as a friend-no more ; while she was suffering
When he saw Edward, he commenced calling the happiness of her love to be bound up in
out, some distance ofg                       him.
" Master Edward, your feyther's dyin' he is,  Repeatedly she asked herself if she were not
an' sent me off to tell ye to coom straight to laying up for herself years and scenes of misery.
him."                                        And when wisdom     and  prudence answered
"That is bad news, bad news," said the cap- " yes," she hushed their voices, and gave her
tain, as Edward, without the least particle of thoughts up to-the bliss of loving.
color in his face, and without power to question  "If he loves me not again," she said, at
the boy, motioned him to dismount.  He sprang such times, " I can still love him.  If he should
upon the horse, and waving adieu to the cap- wed another, and never suspect my love, I can
tain, he galloped along the road the boy came still love him. Should he forget me, I will
at full speed.                              love him still, and with my last breath .of life,
"What is the matter, lad'?" asked the cap- I will pray for blessings upon him."
tain, of the country boy.                      Such, then, was the condition Kate's heart
"They say he's got took all of a sudden with had reached, that any joy of his gave her joy,
the happyplexy, but I'm  consarn'd if I knaws and in his sorrow  she sorrowed.  Like Ruth,
what that arebe; tho' he don't seem to be hap- she felt as if his God should be her God, where
py a bit."                                   he went. she would also - go  and die where he

"Do they think he will die ?" asked Captains died.

Wat.
"They says it ; but there's no knowin' till he
be dead," answered the clownish youth, with an
oracular look.
"I am  sorry for him  and for this young
man," said the captain, leaving the lad and
walking thoughtfully home. When he commu-
nicated the fact to his mother and sister, they
expressed the deepest sympathy and regret.
"He is a fine man, and it would be e great
loss to Mr. Edward to lose him."

When Edward reached " The Brown Bear,"
he threw himself from his horse, and rushed
into the house. Within the door Dame Black-
lock met him. He saw by her face that David
still lived, but could not long last. She silently
pressed his hand, while she covered her eyes
and wept.
"How is he, mother ?" he asked, tenderly
and softly.
"Worse every minute."

As for Catharine, she walked out into her   -Have you sent for the doctor ?"
flower garden, blinded by tears,,and there wept,  "He was here an hour and is just gone, say-
not for David Blacklock, for she had.never seen ing nothing can be done.  He must die. . In-
him but once, when he was in Cambridge, but deed he is now dying.  Come and seehim, for
for Edward's sorrows. She was thinking how he does nothing but sty, "Eddy, Eddy, where
unhappy he must be at his. father's situation; is my boy.  Will he, not be here to see me
and with him, unknown to him, the noble girl die'?"
mingled her tears with his! Such sympathy,   Edward entered the room  that had been for
my dear reader, could spring only from deep- twenty years the sleeping chamber of the old
seated love in the heart; and we must, therefore, people.. He saw by the half drawn curtains the
conclude what is -indeed the truth, that she loved large form of David Blacklock stretched upon
Edward. She hardly dared breathe the secret the bed, the head highly raised by pillows placed
to her own soul; for she sadly felt that his eyes beneath. He turned his eyes as Edward enter-
when they were turned towards her answered not, ed, and feebly extended his hand for him to take,
though they could kindle the glance ,of love while a smile shone upon his face, as he said:

l
G
P

" Bless you, bless you !  You have come atI
last !"
"I m grieved at the heart, my dear father,1
to see you thus," he said, kneeling by his pil-
low, and weeping upon the hand he held. " I
hastened without delay as soon as the sad news
reached me."
" I know it, Eddy. You always loved me
as if I had been your own father."
" I forget that you are not. I 1 know no other
father than you, who have faithfully done a
father's part to me ; and no other mother, than
my dear mother,-and here he clasped her hand
also in his, and kissed it reverently,-who has
always loved me as a son."
"I know no difference, my boy," answered
the dame, with her eyes raining tears which
she did not think of wiping away, but let them
run like raindrops from her eyes.
" Let me say a word to you, Edward," said
David, "before my voice fails me.  You know
you are not our son. You know how we found
you. Perhaps one day your father may turn
up.  I don't know, 'however.  It may be and
it may not be.  If you should ever find meet
parents, I need not tell you that your love to
them is due, though it looks as if they deserted
you. But perhaps they    did not. Perhaps
you were taken from them by those who desert-
ed you.  I know you have forgotten all about
it It is natural you should forget, you were so
young when we found you in the chest. Now,
I  - h to tell you that there is a name in that
chest, painted with red color. But it was.af-
terwards painted over with blue ; but as the
mould in the garret, where I have carefully kept
the chest to this day, softened the blue paint,
it has peeled off, and-under it has appeared the
name. - I only discovered this about. three
weeks ago."
"And what is the name, my dear father ?"
asked Edward, eagerly, emotions unknown to,
him before :agitating his-soul.
"It is-buti-it has escaped me.. But you
will see it there after I am gone. That name-
may-give-you a-a--a--clew to-"
Here David -Blacklock's voice failed him.

KATE ; W YNY ARD .

He pressed the hands of his wife and of Ed-
ward, and held them for an hour, when he
breathed out his life ; and the spirit departing
left a pleasant look impressed upon the mouth.
We draw a veil over this scene of grief and
of death.
The evening of the funeral of the publican,
Edward walked from the graveyard, where he
had lingered long after the cortege had retired.
Sadly and slowly he moved along the road which
passed around the estate of General Lawrence.
He was full of sorrow. He felt that he had
lost his best, his only friend, save, indeed, Dame
Blacklock, who solely now remained to him.
The day was drawing to a close, and as the
sun went down, and the moon rose and found
him seated on the steps of the old church, with
his face buried in his hands, the very personifi-
cation of sorrow. But he is not long left alone
in this up-giving of himself to grief. From her
window, Isabel Lawrence had seen him pass
along the road, and though it was twilight, she
recognized him, and her whole soul sympathized
with him; for she knew of his heavy loss, and
that he must now be returning from the church-
yard, desolate and mourning over his loss. She
left her room, and gliding from the house, cross-
ed the lawn to a side gate which opened upon
the road, to speak to him and offer him those
words of sympathy which her heart prompted.
But he had gone so far that she could not reach
him without running. She, however, knew that
at the foot of the grounds near the river-side,
the road would by a bend bring him near the
wall of the lawn, when she could speak to him
and detain him. So she hastened along the
gravelled walk for two hundred yards, and when
it terminated, she took her way across the ver-
dant sward and soon reached the foot of the
bluff on which the church stood. Here she
saw him moving round the ruins, having quitted
the road to seek the seclusion of the sacred spot
so congenial to;his present feelings.
At first she hesitated to advance,; but co.
scious of the rectitude and benevolence of her
motives, she ascended the slight eminence and
reached the ruin upon which the moon, now at


49                              iKAT     W W
4er full, was pouring its rosy beams with touch-
ing beauty.  She saw him seated upon the stepsI
facing the east, and without hesitation, with the
fearlessness of innocence and truth, she ap-
proached him and lightly laid her hand upon
his shoulder, breathing at the same time his
name.
"Edward !"
He raised his face, and the moonbeams glis-
tened upon tears.
" Miss Lawrence !"
" Yes, Edward. I saw you come hither, and
your sadness and grief touched me so, that I
have come to say a word or two of kindness,
and to assure you that I sympathize with you
with all my heart !"
"Thanks, Isabel !" he said, at that hour of
sorrow forgetting the formal style of a title,
which also would have placed between them the
barrier which her frankness had overpowered.
" I knew you would not be indifferent to my
loss.  You are very kind. But do not remain
here,'I beseech you. The night is damp, and
I fear that your brother would hardly forgive
you if he knew you were here."
"My brother ! I do not let his prejudices-
influence me, Edward," she said, smiling, but
firmly and with proper spirit. " How have you
learned anything ?"
"His conversation with you after I left you
last Sunday evening, was overheard in part by
a servant of the inn, and was repeated to me.
Therefore, I pray you, do notincur his displeas-
ure a second time."
"Do you command me to go away ?" she
said, reproachfully, looking earnestly into his
still tear-wet eyes.
"Command you? I? 0, never, Isabel !
Your presence is like that of an angel ! Al-
ready my grief is lightened to feel that you
sympathize with me !"
"Then I will remain a little while. I do
not fear Manfred. He loves me too well to be
long angry with me. I am sorry he dislikes
you, as he evidently does, and as yen must
know. You can never have done him wrong."

YN YAI D.

"I wish no evil to him, nor would I do him
harm ; but on the contrary, serve him."
"I have been thinking a good deal of our
last interview," she said, as if she would e range
the theme; "and it has called up all the past
with great vividness."
"And with me also, Isabel, if I may call
you by your girlish name; since I left you, I
have lived in memory all my boyish days, and
again roamed the woodland, sailed, beach nut-
ted, berried and bird's-nested with you. Those,
indeed, were happy, happy days ! But they
are now passed, Isabel ! Years have ma'e us
comparatively strangers, and we can never be
as intimate as then !"
"And why not, Edward ?" she said, be-
witehingly.
"My position and yours I now better under-
stand, Miss Lawrence.  The forms of life have
ploughed a gulf between us that friendship even
dare not overstep. You move in a sphere I,
cannot venture to hope to penetrate with my
humble origin."
" Edward, I wish to ask you one question."
"Two, if you please, "dear Isabel," he said,;
hardly conscious, the endearing epithet flowed
out from his heart so naturally to his lips, that
he uttered it.
She blushed at ,the epithet, but not with an-
ger, for it fell sweetly upon her ears and filled,
her heart with joyful hope.
"Do you really like me as well as you did
when we were children.-when I gave you the
ring and you made the cage for me ?"  Here
a delightful smile played about h'er mouth.
" Do I ?  Far, far better ! I have never
forgotten you; and during all your absence, I
have daringly thought of you, and as the time
drew near when you were expected home, I
counted the days. Like you? Ah, Isabel, if
I dared I would call the sentiment I feel tow-
ards you by a tenderer word.  Shall I utter it ?
Will you forgive my boldness if I offend, though
I would rather die than offend you?"
"Speak, I will not be offended," she said,
softly, dropping her eyes, while she withdrew
not the trembling hand he held within his.

KATE WYN YARD.               49

"  ove !  Yes, dearest Isabel, I would call ears have now heard. But I will not doubt.
it live !  It is a deeper, holier, more abiding It is no dream.  It is real. This day of my
fee lingthan boyhood's careless intimacy ever greatest loss has ended in my greatest gain;
knew    You are silent !  You drop your eyes and my mourning has turned into joy  But--"
to tto ground !  Yet you suffer me to hold your And here he paused, and a shadow of regret
hand !  You remain seated by my side !  This passed across his handsome features. Quick as
catsi  ote the silence of displeasure.  Tell me love her eye saw the change, and she said,
if it is so? and I will kneel to thee for the for- earnestly :
giveness of my rashness.",                   "What?    But what ?"
"  nger ?  0, no !  Shall I be displeased,  "I have in the brightness of this hour of
Ed w'n d," she answered, raising her fine eyes, happiness, been oblivious of the distance that
and resting them full and open upon his face, must forever sever us."
" shall I be displeased that I hear from your  " Edward !  You do me wrong."
lips the words that I have often dreamed, I ."Nay, I could not do you wrong, as I should
heard you utter, and have awakened to regret do by abusing your sweet confidence, and seek-
that it was but a dream?  We know each other, ing to draw you from the high sphere in which,
and we understand each other from this happy like a beauteous star, you move, to mate with an
hour !  Shall I confess to you my fear and obscure light of earth as I am.  You are born
trembling, lest I should find you had forgotten and educated to shine, admired and honored,
me when I should return ?" she said,. with a in the noblest circles of the land ; while I-must
beautiful expression of womanly confidence and ever gaze on you at a distance, happy in being
love. "Shall I confess that I have thought of your friend, but-"
you daily? that the little wooden cage was a  " Edward, your words grieve me.    They
constant memento of the past, and a link with show that you do not know me. I must, I see,
the future? This is a moment, Edward, towards speak more plainly than I should, perhaps. If
which I have looked forward. It is the fulfil- you love me, I will never love another but you.
ment of dear hopes, and buries f rever the fears But I do not lower myself.  I know that you
that have caused me many a sad moment. You will yet rise to stand side by side with the gi eat-
see I speak without disguise."              est and best.  Lower myself, to give myself to
"Like your own generous and truthful na thy true and loving heart and protecting arm?
ture, Isabel.  How can I express my gratitude 0, no ! I shall look up to thee with pride and
for the blissful words that my scarcely believing honor--my heart's king and lord."

A T1TtTYi T


CHAPTER VII.
The happy interview. Its sudden interruption. A precious brace of scoundrels. A second
plan of abduction. Manfred's cowardly and hostile act.

T these words of undisguised truth and
deep feeling, which none but a true and
pure-hearted girl could have spoken, in such a
frank and ingenuous,and wholly unaffected man-
ner, Edward drew her towards himself gently,
and imprinted the first kiss of love and confidence
upon her brow. She did not withdraw from the
enfolding circle of his arm, and, for a moment,
both were silent, their happiness too great for
-language to express.
At length Edward broke the sweet silence, by
saying, in a tone tinged with regretfulness:
" Dear Isabel, I feel that I do wrong, thus to
win and hold your young heart. You know
nothing of the world.  You love me now, but
if you were one day to link your fate with mine,
I feel you would grieve and sink under the
pointed finger of contempt, which would greet
you as-I use the word frankly-the wife of
Edward Blacklock.    For your sake, though it
would cast a gloom over my whole days-for
your sake, your happiness and peace, this inter-
view, this happy, blissful interview should be
our last. When you have seen more of the
world-for recollect you are just from school--
you will perceive the error your regard for me
has tempted you to commit, and be thankful,
and, perhaps, to me, grateful that my calmer ex-

perience prevented it. Your brother will be the
first to cast you from his heart ; your mother's
displeasure will hang over you; the friends,
who now so much love and-respect you, will treat
you coldly, and for my sake you will thus wed
yourself to a life of unhappiness and degrada-
tion.''
"Have you said all?" she asked, with tears
sparkling in the moonbeams, as she fixed her
eyes reproachfully upon his face, while the inde-
pendence of her spirit flashed from them.
"I have said what I have said, Isabel, as if
I were pronouncing my own doom."
" Hear me ! After what I have said, I need
not repeat to you that I love you with all my
heart and being. With you I would dwell in
poverty, rather than in splendor with another,
whom I could never love.  No, Edward ! Do
not seek to renounce me from thy side ! By it
I could smile at the world's pity,, and be indif-
ferent to its scorn. Unless you wish to implant
irrevocably in my mind the dread idea that you
wish to sever forever our present bond of the
union of our hearts, let my ears no more. be
pained by hearing them. They but prove to me
what needed no proof to mue, the lofty and
manly sense of honor and generous spirit which
has always characterized you. No, no ! - You

KATE WYNYARD.               51

shall neither lose your happiness nor I mine, for
the world. What is the world to me, without thy
love ? - With Gertrude of Von Derwerte, I re-
peat,
" The world ! what means it? Mine is here !"
"Thou dreamest, Isabel," said Edward, his
fine face animated with all the happiness the
proudly confessed love of such a noble girl
should kindle in any true soul. " Then let this
subject be dropped forever.  From  this day I
will try to make myself worthy of your love, so
that in giving me your heart you shall make no
sacrifice in the eye of society. I will render
myself worthy of you. As soon as I leave the
university, which will now be very soon, I shall
place myself with an eminent jurist, and, if I
fail not in health and life, it shall, indeed, be
your pride to claim me as your lawful protector
and liege lord. My native land opens an un-
limited field to the ambition of its young men,
and every office, even to the highest in the
world is accessible to talent, integrity, and right-
ly directed ambition. - If all else were Wanting,
the consciousness of your love, of your devoted,
self-sacrificing spirit, which forgets my humble
birth, will spur me to superhuman exertion, that,
when I shall come to claim your hand, pledged
to me this joyful hour, of your another and your
brother, they shall feel no shame or sense of
degradation in yieldingtheir free consent. Till
then, dear Isabel, though the separation will be
painful to me, let us meet but seldom, if at all !
Conscious in our mutual love, and looking for-
ward to a brighter day, when the cloud that
noyv intervenes shall be removed, we can love
each other in our absence, as we have done dur-
ing the last six years of your absence from your
paternal home. Does this proposal please you ?"
"It does not please me, but I yield to it, be-
cause it is dictated by prudence and sound sense.
I thank you., Edward, for suggesting it. It is
best that we should see each other but seldom,
until the day arrives, when, before the world's
eye, you can claim me as your bride."
"Yes ; for even, though I were now your
equal in birth. I have no profession, and we
shotild still have to let time elapse."

" You are more discreet and thoughtful than
I am. But my fortune would obviate-"
" My dear Isabel, do me the justice to be-
lieve that I have too much pride to make your
fortune the key to my advancement. Under
any circumstances I must delay till I have nade
a name, or at least a profession. "Will you,"
he added smilingly, as he drew her hand to his
lips, " will you wait for me four years'?"
" Seven-always, Edward, so far as any
pledge to another goes."
" Thanks, my dear Isabel ! Thanks ! Words
are inadequate to express my gratitude to you
for the unspeakable honor of your love, and of
your confidence in me. May I never prove my-
self unworthy of either. Four years will make
you nearly twenty-two, and make me twenty-
five. We shall then be young, and, I trust,
happier than now ; because I shall then have
attained a profession in life. But would you
cheerfully wait seven years, if in four I won not
the position I aspire to, before I. come to claim
your hand ?"
"Have I not said it, dear Edward ?"
"Bless thee-bless thee !"
"Curse thee-curse thee, villain !" cried the
startling voice of Manfred Lawrence, immedi-
ately in the door of the ruin,_ behind the steps
on which they were seated, wholly forgetful of
all circumstances but what was bounded by the
circle of their purest love.
As at this hour he should have been at the
university, several miles distant, we will ex-
plain his sudden appearance at this unhappy
moment in the presence of the lovers. We
have already given a detailed account of his
lawless passion for the beautiful Kate Wynyard,
and the signal defeat of his purposes through
the courage of Edward Blacklook. Neverthe-
less for all this discomfiture, while it increased
his hatred against Edward, it did not diminish
his determination to carry off the beautiful
straw-braider.; for he was one of that vile class
of rich young men who would never think of
outraging the feelings of a young lady in their
own position of society, by attempting to carry
her off by force, yet look upon a poor girl, who

A

#4


52                  KATE WYNYARD

supports herself by her needle, as fair game for
their licentious attempts and ignominious strat
agems.
He had formed an intimacy with a dissolute
young student, who had largely involved his
character by dissipation, gaming and unliquida-
ted debts.   This person's need   Manfred's
abundance from time to time solargely supplied.
that at length he became his chief creditor, and
held him completely in his power When a
man is fallen to such a position of dependence
by his own viciousness of life, he is a ready tool
for all temptations, and no intriguing designer,
who needs an agent, supposes he can be insulted
by any proposition. Therefore, one day, when
Chester Tunstall came to his room to ask the
loan of a sum more of money, Manfred said to
him, bluntly :
"ITunstall, I am tired loaning you, who never
repay."
" But I have been infernally unlucky at play,
the last three weeks, Lawrence. If you could
spare a cool twenty, it- would be a nest-egg by
which I could win enough to pay you back the
four hundred and odd I am owing you."
M lanifred looked a- him with a glance of con-
tempt ; for there were even below him, men,
who m he could despise, as those above him de-
spised hin.
'- So you always say. Tunstall."
but I've learned a trick from a gambler,
Lawrence-an admirable trick-that cannot fail
to bring me lots of stakes."
"Do you resort to chewing. Tunstall ?"
"One must do it," answered the young nman,
slightly coloring.  " One can't starve and be
ruined. I must pay my debts ; and cheating is
fair when those you play against cheat."
" I have nothing to say. Your circumstances
seem desperate."
"Yes, you have come near the mark."
"I can propose to you a way of getting out
of them."  And he bent his eyes closely upon
his face.
"In what manner?" asked the gamester, ea-'
gerly.
".By doing me a favor."

Name it."
"It is-but first let me tell you what I
propose to pay. I will give you a receipt in
full for what you owe me, and one hundred dol-
lars down, if you succeed."
"Done. Name it, Lawrence."
"It is to kill a man!"
"What-killaman ? No. Youdon't meanit!"
" Have I not said it ?"
Tunstall shook his head and regarded Law-
rence, who stood unmoved before him with-
out moving a muscle, with surprise and doubt.
"Do you think I am so desperate as that,
Lawrence ?" he asked, with guilty embarrass-
ment, and an attempt to look indignant.
"I am not making myself your judge in mat-
ters personal to you, Tunstall."
" Do you really wish me to commit a mur-
der ?"
"I have told you what I wish."
" Who is the man'?"
"It is no matter who, till I know whether you
will do*it or no ?
"For five hundred dollars ! It is a small
sum," said the young man, with a thoughtful
air; " a confounded small sum ! especially if
here was any chance of being found out "
" If a man will commit a murder at all, I
don't see why'he shouldn't do it for five hun-
dred dollars !"
" That's true-say a thousand !" he cried,
abruptly.
Here Lawrence laughed audibly, with a sneer-
ing tone, and said :
" 1 do not wish you to do any murder, Tun-
stall.  I did but: test you on this improbable
point, in order to see if I could depend on you
upon a lesser. I have no hatred to gratify, that
I cannot be my own avenger.",
"You were hardly fair to try me in this
way," answered Tunstall, trying to smile, and
looking as guilty as if he had really committed
the deed; for he had learned a humiliating les-
son in the volume of his own depravity, that for
a thousand dollars he could consent to assassi-
pate a fellow-betng. He dropped his eyes before.
the haughty and cold glance of his superior, for

he felt that by his own mouth he had forever
sealed his own degradation and unmistakable in'
famy, in the eyes of Manfred Lawrence.
"I wish you, however," said Lawrence, " to
do a deed for me, that I would rather have per
formed by another than myself, because my ap
pearance on the ground at all would lead to sus
picion. I want you to aid me in running away
with a young girl."
"That is quite another affair," answered the
young man, with a look of infinite relief.
"-She is poor, and I am in love with her.  I
tried it once but was defeated. I am resolved
to try it again. if you will undertake the af-
fair, and follow strictly my directions throughout,
I will give you your debts to me, and pay you
one hundred dollars beside."
"Done.   Who is the girl ?"
"Will you swear secrecy ?"
"Yes."
" If you betray me I will have you thrown
into prison for that forgery of my name!"
" What-what-what--forgery ?" he gasped
out.
" Do not deny what I have certain knowledge
of. Did you not, five weeks ago, draw from my
father's banker in Boston, sixty-five dollars, by
forging my own name to a check'? You sup-
posed it would never be detected, but he sup.
posed I drew it and no inquiries were made in
the settling up of the cash accounts. But that
very day~I went to the banker to draw thirty-
five dollars, and he remarked, 'This, and the
sixty-five paid to your order this morning, will
make just one hundred.' So you see I know it.
But I did not speak of it, because I knew I
had you in my power, and that some day I might
want to use you. The day has come."
"You will not prosecute, 'Lawrence ?" he
asked, with alarm, but without manifesting the
least particle of shame at the discovery.
"Not if you are secret and true to me in this
matter."
"Iswear to be so. I will do what you say I
If you should give me up, what would become o
me! ,Think of the respectability of' my fam-
ily."
4

r   " You seem wholly to have forgotten it your-
- self, from this act and others."
" It would be penitentiary for life !"
" You are thinking more of the punishment
- of your crime than of its baseness. But that is
- your affair. The young girl's name is Kate
Wynyard."
" The handsome straw-braider! She is a
prize, Lawrence."
" You know her then ? So much the better,
you can make no mistake."
" Not . She is worth carrying off. When
do you want me to do it?"
" I will let you know. In a very few days,
however. In the meanwhile, I want you to ex-
amine and make yourself fully acquainted with
the precincts of the cottage where she dwells,
on the river side. Go this evening and see the
position of windows, walks, gates, and take
every observation that will be of use to you ;
for you are to conduct the whole matter, I not
appearing in it at all., Here are fifty dollars.
This is for you to pay your bill at the livery sta-
ble, and to secure a close carriage to be ready
at your order at any moment. Everything must
be done as for yourself."
- "I understand it. I will be as wise as a ser-
pent. But where shall I go ?"
" I will give you your instructions more partic.
ularly in a day or two."
After some further conversation, Tunstall left
and Manfred walked out. It was on this very
occasion that he was encountered by Captain
Wat and so publicly insulted. ie returned to
his rooms, burning,with rage. He at once sent
for Tunstall, and thus addressed him:
" The girl's brother, a fire eating sail  is re-
turned. He met me half an hour ago, and in-
sulted me after a manner that has no forgiveness.
That lowborn hypocrite, Blacklock, was with
him."
" I hate Blacklock, he is always so virtuous
and confoundedly correct, as if he carried all the
goodness that is on earth under his own vest."
" You can't hate him worse than I do, and
that you may have a stronger incentive to serve
me in this affair, I inform you that Blacklock

KATE WYNYARD.


,KATE WYNYARD.               56

loves her, and that you will despite him by car-'
rying her off."
"That will do,' answered Tunstall, mali-
ciously.
" This brother. I know nothing about, save
that he ran away to sea some years ago, and has
now returned, looking more like a pirate than
an honest sea farer. Blacklock, no doubt, knows
how to choose his acquaintances. You must be-
ware of both of these. I am resolved the af-
fair shall come off without delay, for this broth-
er may take her to sea with him."
" Hadn't we best wait until we know that to
be so, and that he has gone without her ?'
" No.  At once, or not at all!  He can't be
at home always; nor "
At this moment the janitor that waited upon
the rooms of that floor came in to perform some
duty of hi bustling office, and being, like a bar.,
her, of a news-telling and gossipping turn, he
said, as he filled the water pitcher :
" You didn't hear the news, did ye ?"
" No," answered Manfred, who was waiting
impatiently for him to leave.  "You are not
needed."
" There is a report that Captain Davy Black.
lock, the tavern keeper, fell dead this morning
in his bar."
" 0, that is-his father. This is good news,"
said Lawrence, aside, to Tunstall. " It will
keep him out of the way, at least ! The funer-.
al will take place to-morrow, when, doubtless,
the captain, his friend, will be there.  That
will be the time-to-morrow night !"
" The fair Kate may go too !"
"It is not likely.  You must ascertain that,
and act according to circumstances."
Is it Miss Kate Wynyard, sir, you named ?"
said the inquisitive janitor.
" What are your long ears doing; fellow ?"
demanded Lawrence, angrily, and rapidly re
viewing his words in his mind, to see if he had
said anything by which he could be harmed.
" There's news about Miss Kate, the widder'i
darter, whether I heard her name or not," an
swerved the man, doggedly.
" And what is the newsV'"

" Thal her runaway brother, Walter, a right
wild chap in his boyish days-I recollect him
well-has come back rich as a king, and given
his mother twenty thousand dollars, all in yellar
gold ; and his sister fifty thousand. He's been
up to the town to day to put it all in bank for
em.
"This is a silly rumor."
"Not a bit of it, for I heard Professor --
saying to Doctor - that he was in the bank
when the captain-for he is a captain-came
in and pat down ten thousand of it "
" Then there may be some truth in it ; and
ten thousand is the whole sum, I dare say."
"This alters the case of our affair, then,"
said Tunstall, aside. "You'lldo nothing now!.
"It does not alter the case one jot.  Rich or
poor, it is the same to me. You will act as if
this were not known to you."
" And there's whisperings, sir, that he's come
in a strange, piratical craft, all black, and low,
and long-black-snakish like-and that the rev-
enue vessel boarded her, taking her for a buk-
kany, or a smuggler ; bur couldn't prove any-
thing against her. But i'll venture to say Wat
Wynyard didn't never come by ten thousand
dollars in an honest way, if he could get it in
any easier way than workin' for it. It's a
mighty hehp o' money, and I ha' my 'spicions,"
said the old man, shaking his head as he went
out of the room.
"You hear this.  We must act promptly. If
this captain is looked upon in this suspicious
way, he wontstay here long ;'and lest he might
remove his mother and sister from that miserable
cottage to some place unknown, as, if he is rich,
he will be likely to do, I say that to-morrow
night you must act. We shall be sure that
I lacklock (of -hose presence Lawrence had a
lively fear) will then be at home, where he will
probably remain for some days. The captain
must be got away by some ruse, some note sent
by some one, as from Blacklock, or from his
banker in town, or from anybody that will toll
- him away from the house, till you can get Kate
out of it into your carriage."
" I will manage it as you wish; and he sure,

Lawrence," added Tunstall, "you will have no
reason to find fault with my tact."
"Now hear my plan. To-morrow at dusk,
you will have a carriage, with deaf Jacob to
drive (be sure you have him, so that he can be-
tray nothing), down at the corner of the lane
that leads to the cottage. It must stand directly
in the middle of the road, with the horses' heads
turned towards the turnpike south. You will
then ascertain if the brother is out of the way.
If he is not, you will send to him Ket, whom
you know, a man whom you will have with you,
and a man you can trust, too. Ket will take a
note as from Blacklook, earnestly asking him to
come to him at the inn. This will take him
from the premises. When the coast is clear,
you will then rush to the cottage in alarm and
askfor a light, and say in explanation; that a
man, who seems to be a seaman, has been run
over in the road.  This will bring Kate, who
will supp }se it to be her brother, after you, at
once to the carriage, when you will place her in
gently, but forcibly, and don't harm her, on
your life !"
"But the widow ?"
"She is-too lame to leave the house to inter-
pose."
"This is an admirable plan."
"And I hope the execution will be as admir-
able as the conception."
"Do not doubt that, Lawrence. But where
amI to drive the carriage, when I have her safe
in it ?"
"That I am about to tell you. The residence
of my mother you know."
"Yes. I once went there .with you when you
 owned the fast gray.".
Yes.  So much the better.  You will drive
to Grasmere Hall at once, and at good speed."
"You don't mean to take her to your moth-
ers ?
"2Not exactly. I shall be on the road to
meet you before you reach the:e, to turn you
aside by-a by-road that leads to the house of a

woman in the forest, who is in my ay.

The

house is a large, two-story brick one, a hundred
years old ; but the family that now occupy it
are of a very different rank from that which first
occupied it in the aristocratic days of the colo-
nies. This house is on a part of my estate, and
I have had a couple of rooms fitted up there this
year past, where I have give suppers and din-
ner parties to my particular friends. It is per-
fectly retired, and no one goes or comes from
there save the woman's son Ket, who will be
under your direction in this matter; and who,
should you miss me, will show you where to turn
in to drive to the house. You have now your
directions. To-morrow at sunset you will find
Ket waiting at the stable in order to direct deaf
Jacob where to meet you at the head of the cot-
tage lane."
" I understand my directions clearly now,"
answered  Tunstall, with an   air of elation.
"There is no doubt I shall succeed to your
heart's satisfaction. Had I not better take a
pair of pistols with me ?"
"No. You may use them when you ought
not. If you are in great peril from arrest,
your best course will be to leave the girl and
save yourself; for I' have little confidence in
you, Tunstall, to keep my secret if you were,
brought up for this offence."
" I would be as silent as an Egyptian mum-
my."
After some more particulars of conversation,
the young men separated for the day. - The
same night, Tunstall played successfully his
part of spy about the cottage,; and what be saw
of Captain Wynyard's looks, revealed to him
through the trellised window, did not please him,
they were so decidedly brave, and determined,
.and full of- fight. 'He, therefore, resolved to play
his cards with the greatest wariness, in order not,.
to come in collision with such a truculent look-
ing young sailor.
The ensuing day, as Lawrence had expected,
Captain Wat went to the funeral of the publi,

54                KATE WYNYARD.

,


56                  ATE WYNYARD.              KATE WYNYARD.

can. He pulled up in his boat, taking his love-
ly sister with him. But he returned early,
reaching the cottage just about the time that
Edward was encountered by Isabel on the steps
of the old church tower. That the captain had
taken his sister Kate to the Brown Bear, was
known to Lawrence through his agent Ket, who
kept watch for the purpose of ascertaining all
their motions. When Lawrence found they had
left the cottage for the funeral, he also mounted
his horse and took his way to the Brown Bear,
which he reached just after the coffin had been
borne away by the pall-bearers. He, however,
went in and spoke with several old men and old
dames, who remained, being too aged to proceed
to the churchyard. He also spoke to the ostler
and gardener ; and took, in this way, particular
pains to make it appear that he had been there.
He then proceeded homeward, on the way speak-
ing to several persons whom he knew, both at
their doors, by the road-side, and on the way,
and with such affability, that it was commented
upon after he had passed by. Just before dark
he reached Grasmere Hall and put his horse up
and walked towards the churchyard, meeting
the chaises and people returning.   All this
pains he took, in order, when the forced flight
of Kate should be noised abroad, fifty people,
at least, could attest to having seen him nine
miles from her cottage at sunset, or thereabout.
But in order to have undoubted and later testi-
mony, he made three country gentlemen, who
had come in on horseback to the funeral, alight
and go in to take supper with him, intending to
keep them until the latest moment that he
thought he could so without failing to meet the
carriage a quarter of a mile off to go to the old
colonial house. As the two of the three country
gentle'.en entered, the third, pleading business
at home, Lawrence asked for his sister, in order
to present them to her. The servant said she
had gone, five minutes before, towards the river
to speak to some gentleman whom she was wish-
ing to overtake.

"Do you know who he was ?" demanded
Lawrence, with his habitual suspicion.
"No, sir. He was tall, and dressed in deep
mourning. He was afoot, and passed round by
the outside of the grapery wall ?"
"In deep mourning'?"
" Yes, sir ; and -I was thinking it might be
one of the mourners to Mr. Blacklock's fu-
neral."
"Gentlemen, you w ill excuse me a few mo-
ments.  My mother, whom you know, will do
the honors. I will be in very shortly."
Abruptly leaving them in the outer hall in
charge of his mother, he descended into the
flower parterre, and hastened down the gravelled
walk towards the river. .As he went on, he
said to himself :
"If it turns out to be Edward Blacklock,
I'll send him this night to lie in the same grave
with his father. I am fortunately armed, to
ward off any.attempt to recover the fair Kate
after she is once in my hands. But if this man
be he, he shall have their leaden contents."
He soon came to the foot of the bluff. The
moon was just risen, and beautifully silvered
the edges of the ruin, and gleamed brightly
through the open arched windows. He crept
stealthily to the summit, for he thought he heard
voices from that quarter. He entered the ruin
amid the shadows on the western end. All was
quiet. But he saw upon a column at the far-
ther end, the shadows of two human heads. The
individuals were not in sight. He watched these
telltales, and perceived, by the, form, that they
were the shadows of a man and woman. He
now went softly over the rough pavement of the
church, and at length reached-the southern door,
which looked down upon the Charles river, flow-
ing beneath. Here he saw the substantial fig-
ures which had thrown the shadows upon the
massive column.  He stood within twelve feet
of Edward and Isabel, and, himself unseen,
listened to all they said. Patiently he waited to
hear the last word-to hear all that either would

say-restraining his rage and fierce revenge
with difficulty, till a fitting moment.  That mo-
ment arrived, and with his voice of thunder, he
made both of them start to their feet.
"Ay, curse thee ! villain !" he repeated, as
Edward turned to meet his gaze, surprised, in-
deed, but not alarmed, while Isabel sprang be-
tween them to prevent collision.
" Manfred, be quiet ! Edward, heed him
not, for my sake ! Brother, if you have over-
heard all, you know all!  Nay, do not menace
me!   I am independent of you.  I will not be

dictated to. Edward Blacklock is every whit
as noble. in heart as yourself. You have no
cause of hostility against him."
"Do not stand in my way, woman !" he
cried, savagely. " You have disgraced your-
self.  Stand back! 1 will take his life !"
He drew his pistol and levelled it at Black-
lock, when Isabel caught his arm, and turned
the weapon aside. In a paroxysm of fury at her
interference, he struck her with the barrel of the
heavy pistol in the temple, and felled her bleed-
ing to the earth,

KATE WYNYARD.


CHAPTER VIII.
The wounded sister.    Her concern for her     brother.  The forged note.   Assault upon
Edward.    He beats of  his assailants, and recognizes in the fallen foe the features c l
Manfred Lawrence.     A  second abduction.

, ANFRED LAWRENCE had no sooner
struck Isabel to the ground with the
pistol, than cooking it, he levelled it at Edward's
breast.  But the latter, animated by indigna-
tion at seeing Jhe maiden fall beneath the blow,
sprang forward ana eauget the pistol with such
a grasp of iron, that in an instant it was in his
hand and Lawrence at his mercy.
"Dastard ! Thou art her brother, or I
would not let thee live an instant. Fly ! Away,
I say, or I shall take your life !" And Ed-
ward fired off the pistol in the air, and then
flung it at his head, as he was retreating with
his hands elevated before his face, as if he ex-
pected each instant to feel the ball in his.brain.
" Poor Isabel !" said Edward, bending down
to raise her from the ground, where she lay
moaning with a gash in her temple. As he
lifted her inanimate form in his arms, the mo-
tion caused a red rivulet of blood to flow from
the wound, which at once revived her.
" Heaven be blessed !" he said, as he saw
her open her eyes.  "You are not much hurt,
I hope'?"
"0, my brother ! Where is he ? I hope-'----"
and she looked around with horror, as if she
expected to discover his body lying upon the
ground.  " I hope you have not-"

" No ! He has fled ! I did not harm him,
for your sake !"
She pressed -his hand gratefully, and said
quickly, " And are you not hurt'?"
"No, Isabel ! You seem to be better."
"Yes, yes ! I do not suffer much. Is the
wound deep'? I hope not, for I would not bear
upon my brow a wound inflicted by a brother's
hand !"
" It is long and deep; but it may disappear
in time, Isabel. How could he do a deed like
this !"
'Ah, his fiery temper ! How grateful I am
that it did not kill me, for he would then, not
only have had a murder on his hands, but would
have been hanged ! It is a mercy !"
"You forget yourself in one who is not wor-
thy of. a thought, Isabel."
"But he is my brother. I forgive him !"
"I shall find it difficult to do so.  Such an
injury and assault upon you, my dearest bride
-betrothed, can hardly be passed lightly over by
me."
"But you will not make it a quarrel with
him, dear Edward'?" she said, earnestly, as he
was binding his white kerchief about her tem-
ples to close the wound.

KATE WYNYARD.                59

"No. For your sake, he shall go unpun-
ished."
"Thanks, thanks !"
"jI will try and remember that he' is your
brother, whensoever his bearing hereafter may
urgently tempt me to forget it " -
"You are so good, and noble, and generous,"
she answered, with grateful enthusiasm.
Edward now conducted her towards the hall,
she leaning confidingly upon his arm, partly
from the actual need of his manly support,
partly, and for the most part, in affection.  She
felt it might be a long time before they met
again, her brother was so hostile, and Edward
having also determined to see her but seldom,
until he had established himself in a profession.
Before they reached the door, as they passed
through an arbor-arch that spanned the path.
Edward lingered to take advantage of the sweet
seclusion of its shady covert, to bid a tender
and passionate farewell to her. With tears in
her eyes and tears in his, they at length re
sued their walk, and 1.e left her at the door ;
but not before assuring himse lf that the wound
was not so severe as the fiery vehemence of the
blow at first threatened.
He turned away from, the ball and retraced
his steps to the ruin, in order r to take the path
to the inn, where the ntily made widow, Dame
Blacklock, he knew was waiting for him, as he
had promised to return tiere after the funeral.
and remain some days wi;i her in her loneliness.
His step was slow and hi. thoughts sad ; for he
did not know when he s'iould met t Isabel, who
was now  become his  second self again.   Of
Manfred he was altogether as forgetful as if they
had not met half an hour before in a hostile at
titude. He did not even think about him when
he took leave of Isabel at the house ; for he
had but one thought, it was his parting from
her he so dearly loved, which parting was
doubly bitter to him, because he felt that it was
sorrowful to her also, and he sorrowed for her
sorrow. He passed round the ruin, and was
attracted once more to the steps on which they
were seated when they plighted their troth to
each other. He stood there recalling the scene.

The moonlight shone upon something that glit-
tered upon the ground. He stooped to pick it
up, and took from the pavement a bracelet wet
with the blood that had oozed from the wound
in her forehead.
"Wretched brother ! to aim such a murder-
er's blow ! This stained bracelet shall be my
keepsake. The crimson tide that came warm
rrom ner near, hatldyed it and made it sacred.
Fortunate prize for my love to cherish !"
As he spoke he pressed it to his lips, and
then clasped it upon his left wrist He now
cast a lingering look at the scene of their plight-
ed hearts, and then turned to quit the ruin and
hasten to the society of Dame Blacklock at the
inn. He descended the rocky side of the cliff,
and entered the cart-road that runs along the
shore, following the windings of the river. He
walked- at a quick step, eager to relieve his
mother's widowed loneliness by his presence,
for it was full two hours after sundown, and
had got about half way to the inn, when he saw
a boat coming down at a rapid rate, pulled by
four oarsmen. As the moon shone brightly
upon the river, he saw that it was the captain
of the Despatch schooner, who at the same mo-
ment recognized' him as he walked on the
shore ; for the boat passed him not twenty yards
from the bank.
"Aboy, shipmate ! Isn't that your craft,
Master Edward'?"
Is't you, Captain Walter ?" responded Ed-
ward, with accents of pleasure at seeing him.
"I thought you rode home in the carriage that
you came to the funeral in'?"
"Vast rowing ! Pull in a bit on the star-
board oars ! That'll do !" he added, as the
boat came to within oars length of the spot on
which Edward stood. " I did ride home in the
hack, and got her home safe too, for a land craft ;
but I had not more than sat down to supper
with mother and sister, than a long shore chap
brought me this note from you, telegraphing me
to lay my course for the inn, under all canvass.
So as my boat had just come up after me to take
me aboard,-for I stay aboard nights, as I can't
get a wink o' sleep in a shore bed,-I took her


60                KATE WYNYARD.

and pulled up. Now, what is in the wind?
From the cut o' the signals in the billet, I was
afraid you had got among the breakers, and
needed a boat's crew or so to tow you off."
"Received a note from me, Captain Wat?"
"Yes. Here it is," answered the captain,
taking his cigar from his mouth to stare at Ed-
ward, on witnessing his surprised manner, and
he drew from the pocket of his drab watch coat
a crumbled bit of paper, and handed it to him.
"I have sent you no note, captain. There
is some mistake."
"There it is, in black and white, like a
frigate's ports, and your name signed to it, all
ship shape."
Edward opened the paper, and not being able
to make it out by the light of the moon, the cap-
tain sprung on shore, and putting his face down
close to the paper, puffed away briskly, so that
the light of his cigar cast a glare upon it, suffi-
cient to enable him to read it. Edward read
with astonishment the following words:
" CAPTAIN :
"I wish to see you without a moment's
delay, at the inn. Come, and let nothing pre-
vent you. I await you impatiently.
"Yours,    EDWARD BLACKLoCK."
"This is a forgery, captain," said Edward,
with such positiveness, that there was no room
in the captain's mind for question. "I never
wrote a line of it, nor is the hand-writing at all
like mine."
"Who, in Satan's name, then, has done it?
I have been up to the inn, and there the good
lady told me you had not been there since the
funeral; and when I read the note to her, she
began to be frightened lest something had hap
pened to you. So not finding you there, and
after waiting awhile, I up helm and lay my
course down stream again, hoping to fall in with
you, or hear something from you. And you
say you don't know anything about it ?"
Edward was thoughtful. He held the note
in his hand and seemed to be meditating deep
ly. All at once he said, in an earnest manner :

"Captain, where were you when this note
was given you ?"
"At the supper-table, at mother's.  Can you
find out anything?"
Who handed it to you?"
" A fellow in long togs-a shore fellow, in a
straw hat and a home-made jacket."
Edward shook his head. " I can't under-
stand this.  Stay !  It was written evidently to
give you a row up to the inn. And for what
end ?  Ah,,I fear the worst ! I think I can
divine the horrible mystery !"
" Out with it ! What do you suspect ?"
" I can give no other explanation of it. I
fear that another attempt has been made to ab-
duct Catharine, or perhaps to effect a robbery,
for people know you have large sums of gold,
in your absence. It is either one or the other."
The captain sprang into the boat, and shouted
to his men to resume their oars.  " Jump in
with me, and let us pull to the cottage. If this
is -so, there shall be one man less on earth be-,
fore to-morrow morning !"
" Stay ! It can't be Manfred Lawrence who
has done it, for he was at the ruin just after
sunset. It must be, therefore, to - effect a
robbery."
"In either case I can't delay."  .
" I cannot go with you, captain. My duty
lies at the inn, where my mother waits for me."
"True, true !  Good night !  I will soon
learn what this means."
" Send me word as soon as possible. I shall
be very anxious to hear. There is plainly some
mischief behind this forged note."
The boat pulled rapidly away from the shore,
and descending the stream, was soon lost to the
eyes of Edward, though he could for some min-
utes hear the stern voice of the captain, urging
his men to their utmost exertions.
"I fear the worst.  Some wrong or outrage
has been perpetrated under cover of this note
and the captain's absence. But I must hasten
to my mother."
Thus soliloquizing, he moved forward on the
road, and at the end of a hundred yards he
came to a path which went from the river to the

right, winding up a little valley.  As he was
crossing the line of this path, two men sprang
out of the shadow of a large umbrageous tree
that grew at the intersection, and one of them,
at five paces, discharged a pistol at him, while
the other ran in upon him to close with him,
armed with a bludgeon. The pistol did not
take effect, though he heard the ball cut the air
near his ear. All his courage instantly filled
his soul and nerved his arm. Brave men in dan-
ger always gather about them their bravery as a
garment, and with the increase of the peril, their
courage rises to meet it. He was unarmed ; but
he saw in the bludgeon that was descending
upon his head, the weapon of his choice, and
seizing the wrist of the man with one band, he
struck him such a blow in the breast with the
other, that he staggered back, leaving the weap-
on in Edward's grasp. He instantly advanced
upon his assailant, and aiming a blow at him,
missed him only because the man took to flight.
The other, however, advanced and snapped a
pistol at his head. If it had gone off, our story
would here have an end ; but the certainty that
his life was doggedly aimed at, roused a spirit
of angry resentment in his bosom, and swinging
the bludgeon above his head, while the man
snapped the pistol a second time in his face, he
brought it down with its full weight upon his
head, and felled him to the ground ; and in his
fall the pistol went off, the ball struck his wrist,
cutting nearly in two the stone of the bracelet,
which turned it aside almost harmlessly.
Edward was now master of the field. But
who his assailants were he did not know, as
neither of them had spoken a word during the
conflict. He stooped down with strange feelings
over the man whom   he had, as- he believed,
killed, in order to save his own life. But the
shadow which the thick tree cast upon the road,
prevented him from seeing.his features, which,
however, seemed to be those of a negro. He,
therefore, took the body by the arms to drag it
out into the moonlight, not only that he might
see who it was who had so resolutely attacked
his life, but be near the water to throw it upon
hia to revive him; for he began to experience

that strange, inexplicable, mysterious feeling
which begins to rise in the bosom of a man who
has occasion to suspect that he has killed a fel.
low-man. Upon dragging the lifeless and dead
weight, he felt certain he was dead ; and his
heart beat like lead at the thought.
"But it was in self-defence. It was to be
either him or me ! I had no alternative."
He got the body out into the broad radiance
of the moonlight, and turning the face to its full
splendor, he clasped his hands together with an
expression of gratitude.
"Heaven above be thanked-it is a negro !
I half believed that I had killed Isabel's broth-
er ! This negro has sought my purse-\o I--
The hands are white ! It is a black mask !"
He tore off from the face the African mask
that had deceived him in the uncertainty of the
moonlight, and started back with a cry of horror
and anguish, as he discovered beneath, the pale,
marbled face of Manfred Lawrence. He stood
full two minutes gazing down upon him, with the
mask in his hand, and in the same attitude of
horror and despair.
" It is he ! It is her brother ! It is Man-
fred Lawrence ! 0, bitter-bitter-bitter hour !
How stark and cold he lies ! Is he dead, in-
deed ! He may not be so ! I will revive him,
if possible. 0, this fearful end of all my bliss !
Isabel, Isabel, my Isabel no more !-farewell,
forever !"
Almost beside himself, the unhappy Edward
dragged the lifeless form of his former playmate,
and late foe, to the water-side, and dashed water
freely into his face. ~ But instead of restoring
him, it only made it look more chilly in death,
and ran off from the cheeks and nose in drops
as if from the marbled features of a chiselled
head.
" He-is-dead-dead-DEAD! 0, Isabel,
I have killed your brother ! Henceforth I am
a murderer to thee-though Heaven will acquit
me of this dread deed of blood ! Dead ? How
cold and stiff he lies ! And by my hand ?
This is my work ! I have done this ! I stop-
ped the beating of that, heart which God first
set in motion. 'I glazed that staring eyeball !

I

KATE WYNYARD.


62                KATE WYNYARD.

I stiffened those waxy white fingers !  I !  I!!
I!!!   0,. wherefore was I born to such an
hour as this !"
He cast himself upon the ground by the
corpse, and buried his face in his hands and
wept like a child. He felt that he had ship
wrecked hope, happiness, honor, life, and all
that could give life value. He groaned as if
his heart were bursting, as he thought how for
ever separate from Isabel this unfortunate event
had placed  him.   "Lost-lost-lost to me
forever !"
He was aroused from this despairing attitude
by a step. He sprang to his feet and saw two
men advancing rapidly towards him, while one
of then with violent gestures, pointed towards
him and cried to the other :
"He has murdered him ! Letus arrest him !"
He stood still by the body until they came
within twenty feet, when seeing his fixed bear-
ing, the foremost stopped till' his companion
came up. They were Tunstall and Ket ; and
it was the latter who had been the accomplice of
Lawrence, and who had fled from the combat
on having the fatal bludgeon taken from him.
As we left Tunstall, a chapter or two back, pre
paring to carry out the designs of Manfred Law-
rence against the beautiful and virtuous Kate
Wynyard, we will take our readers with him,
and witness his proceedings and success in his
new office of pander to the vices of his creditor
and money lender; for to such base uses had
he put himself, through his own extravagance,
dissipation and want of common honor.
The carriage with Deaf Jacob upon the box,
was at the place designated at the head of thQ
lane at the appointed time, just after twilight,
when it was too obscure to distinguish the fea-
tures of persons many paces off. Tunstall came
soon after the carriage, and went on down the
lane,. in order to reconnoitre the cottage
Through the wii dow he had not only the vexti
tion to discover the captain at the suppertable
but he had seen, as he stole across the garden
the -boat with the four oarsmen near the door
He, therefore, saw the necessity of drawing hit
an+ ng *ia nha nu em1  ottin  him  nfl wukh th~

men. He hastened back to the carriage, where
Ket stood by the fore wheel waiting for him.
"Did you bring the dark lantern ?" he asked
of him.
Yes. It is in the coach, lighted."
" That is all right. I want you to take a
note to the cottage and give it to the captain.
He is at supper.  You will act as awkwardly
as you know how, and appe ir stupid and igno-
rant, so that he need not bother you with
inquiries
"lIll do that, sartain," answered Ket, who,
though a plain farmer's lad, was, owing to the
example and training of Lawrence, as thorough-
ly wicked as he well could be for his age,
which was not more than twenty or twenty-one.
Tunstall now got into the coach, and drew
from his pocket half a sheet of paper, folded
like a note, and with a pen and ink, which he
took from a leathern ink-ease, he penned the
note which we have already had the happiness
to peruse later, by the light of the captain's
cigar.
The note was delivered by Ket, who was
thoroughly disguised by a dress unusual to him,
so that Catharine might not recognize. him as
one of the two men who had rowed the boat in
which Lawrence had before carried'her off from
the cottage. After Captain Wat had departed
in his barge on his three mile row up the 'river,
to obey the forged note, Tunstall waited full ten
minutes, and then ran towards the cottage, call-
ing out, " Help ! help ! For the sake of Hea-
ven, help?"
He was met at the door by Catharine, who
demanded, in alarm, what had happened.
" Miss, are there any men here ?" he cried,
on seeing her: "A boat has upset on the river
above here, and a Captain Somebody in it is
near drowning !"
Without reflecting, in her surprise and hor-
ror, upon the possibility of a. deception, nor
suspecting any, indeed without any thought but
that it wad her brother in peril, she cried
"Where?    Show me ! . Fly, sir !  0, do

not linger here ! I will follow you, and aid all
e I can!"                         -   4

vo
rig
ou
tic
ce
he
an
re
cr
wI
mi
ml
gr

" This way, miss !" responded Tunstall, with I couraging words, that no harm was meant her,
ell-affected terror; while ever and anon the she would soon be among the best friends, and
ice of Ket, who had been stationed by the " that hallooing and crying,'and all that, would
ver bink for the purpose, was heard calling do no good, and only spoil her eyes."  But
it for sur-cor, in choking accents. No decep. when she learned, in the way we have shown,
on could have been more wicked, or more sue by whose command this outrage upon her nod-
ssfu'ly practised  Kate hurried on, leaving esty, her liberty and her happiness, had been
er helpless mother behind, ringing her hands, committed, her alarm took a new ford,--that
id praying for the safety of her son. Upon of indignation, combined with the liveliest
aching the lane, Tunstall said :          apprehension.
"Up round by the lane, miss. You can't      " Whither do you take me ?" she cried, in a
oss by the bank."                         tone of command.  "Release ie
He soon drew her near where the coach stood, " We'll soon be to our journey's end, Miss
hen whistling shrilly, Ket bounded from the Kate."
eadow, and both seized her at the same mo-  " If you are taking me where I shall meet
ent, andhurried her, by lifting her from the Manfred Lawrence, I will die before I will go
ound, to the carriage.  She was so taken by there !"

surprise, that she had no time to realize her sit-
uation, or to scream. The next moment she was
seated by Tunstall, the coach glasses down, and
the vehicle, with Ket on the box, rattling off at
the rate of ten miles an hour.
At length the turning out of the road, where
Lawrence had directed them to expect him, was
reached, after half an hour's driving, during
which Tunstall kept his prisoner quiet by threat-
eminag her with instant death. Here they drew
up and waited for some time, but seeing noth-
ing of Manfred, his pander gave orders to drive
on.  It was then, by overhearing Ket say,
"Mr. Lawrence has, I guess, gone down to the
old house to wait there for us," that Catharine
saw through the rmiystery of her capture. She
had never seen Tunstall, and she could not ac-
count for this violence and abduction by a total
stranger ; for m ith all her terrors, she cast over
and over in her mind the cause of her being
stolen off. The only relief she had was the as-
surance from Tunstall that her brother was safe,
and the tale had been invented only to toll her
from the cottage,
It would be difficult to paint to the reader's
eye the feelings of terror, despair, and wild
amazement that took possession of Kate's bosom,
when she found herself borne to the carriage in
Tunstall's arnms; 't hese emotions bad not been
lessened on the swift journey by his very en-
a

"I have no doubt but you would do yourself
some mischief, pretty one, if you could. But
you have no weapons,.fortunately."
" Why do you take me to him'? - What have
I done to you that you should take me from my
mother's house in this manner ?" she enticated,
with clasped hands.  " 0, sir, release me I"
" I should lose five hundred dollars if I did,
Kate."
"Five hundred dollars! lHe, then, pays
you ! You veill take me back for gold then ?
You shall have it, if you will take me back !"
"Have you five hundred dollars in your
purse ?"
"Alas, no ! But you shall have it to-
morrow."
" To morrow is never, when we trust those
we don't know, Kate. I hear you are rich, but
the money you promise is not so safe on your
tongue as it would be in my hand ; while I run
no risk about that which is to be paid me."
Base slave ! to be hired to-"
Here the carriage stopped suddenly ; and Ket,
opening the door, said, briefly ;
" We are here !"
Quicker than thought, Kate sprang through
the door, striking Ket so smartly in the eye as
she did so, that he jumped backwards, and she
fled past him, only, however, to find herself in
the strong clutch of an old woman, tall and

"

KATE WYNYARD.               . 63

VUW   VI UUW LUVUZU iLU1t       6G4UlU0 -   111131 w.&amp; Vry1N11 vu%


64                KATE WYNYARD.

gaunt, who had come out of the great, black,
gloomy forest-house to receive them.~'
" Not so fast, young 'un ! You must come
in here with me !" And without another word,
she drew her, shrieking desperately for aid, to
the wildly echoing woods, into the building.,
"She's safe with the old 'ooman, and no mis-
take," said Ket, laughing and rubbing his face.
"She hit me right hard with her little fist. I-
shall have a black eye for a week, sartain as the
world !"
" I thought I had lost her, when she flew out
so like a bird.  She's got spirit enough !  If I
hadn't had this pistol to keep her quiet, I verily
believe she would have whipped me in the,
carriage !"
" Mother, is he here ?" he shouted, through
the locked door
" No," was the shrill reply. " Go and tell
him !"
" I'll send the carriage back, and go with it
as far as the cross road," said Tunstall. " Tell
him I am there," he added, as he saw Ket tak-
ing a crossing through the wood, to reach the
hall by a short way.    1
Tunstall, then ascertaining from the old wo-
man to whom he had called, that the prisoner
could not possibly escape, drove back a quarter
of a mile to where he had before waited, with
the expectation of seeing Lawrence. Here be
detained the hack to wait for him to come up
with Ket.
The latter, in the meanwhile, reached the
rear gate of the hall grounds, and entering by
it, as was his custom daily, without question, he
was crossing the garden to inquire of the gar-
dener at his lodge where his young master was,
when he encountered Lawrence coming in a side
entrance from the highway.
You are just in time. Have you your pis-
tol with you?"
"Yes-and loaded."
" So much the better.  Wait here till I get
mine.' And meanwhile, hunt up a heavy club."
Lawrence hastened to his room, and after
five minutes, returned, when~he found Ket arm-

ed with a heavy bludgeon, which he had found
among the gardener's tools.
" That will do. Give me your pistol. Now,
follow me !" All this was said in a tone and
manner of the highest excitement.
" What has happened ?" asked Ket, as he
followed him down the walk, in the darkness of
its shading foliage.
"I have been insulted by that inn-keeper's
son, Blacklock. I will take his life ! He has
caused me to kill my sister!"
"Who are them ?" askedKet, pointing to
Edward conducting Isabel homeward.
"Keep back here, within the shadows," he
said, as he saw them approach the door, and
take leave of each other. This sight made his
blood boil. That he had not wounded his !sister
as fatally as he had supposed, was a relief to
his mind; and he had now leisure to turn allhis
thoughts towards' Blacklock. He saw him re-
turn towards the ruin, and together they follow-
ed him unseen.
" It must not be done on my grounds, or it
will be laid to me," said Lawrence. "He will,
be going to the inn. Follow me through the
fields to the valley cross .road. There we will
meet him."
They waited till they saw him quit the ruin,
and take the cart road along the river, when
they went-round to cut him off.. And all this
while Lawrence's mind was so absorbed in the
thoughts of vengeance, that he did not once
think of Kate Wynyard, or make an inquiry of
Ket respecting her, no more than if such a per-
son had never existed. But when they reached
their stand under the great tree, at the corner
of the path, and were lying in wait, he be-
thought him of the last duty in which Ket had
been engaged, and said, quickly :
"What of Kate Wynyard ?"
"Safe-at mother's."
." That is good news. And Tunstall ?"
" In the carriage, at the red gate, waiting for
you."
"Let him wait.  One thing at a time. Let
me finish Blacklock's business for him, and
shall then have leisure for other matters." .

CHAPTER 1X.
Tunstall and Ket seek to take Edward.  They are intimidated by his firm bearing.  Rob
bery of Lawrence's body.    Its observation  by another party.  Tunstall a prisoner in
the boat. Lawrence's body borne to Grasmere Jhll. Edward's sad reflections.      The
widow's anguish at Kate's abduction.

E have already described the secret at-
tack made by Lawrence upon Edward
Blacklock when he came into the trap they had
laid for him, and also the flight of Ket. The
latter fled swiftly for aid, as he feared from
what he had experienced, that Edward would
get the mastery over them both. He had not
gone five hundred yards in the direction of a
hut which he knew well, and where lodged a
man, whose business it was to fell the trees and
cord the wood for the barges to take to the city,
when he saw coming towards him Tunstall, on
foot.
" You are the very man!" he cried to him.
" Come back with me.. Edward Blacklock will
kill Lawrence.  They are fighting. I came to
call old Will Blackburn to aid me, but you and
I will do.  You have your pistol?- That is
right."
They ran back together as fast as they could
make speed; and as they went along, side by
side, Tunstall, in reply to Ket's inquiry, an-
swered, that, being tired of waiting, and hearing
some carts coming along, 'he had left the carriage
and sent it back to Cambridge, to get rid of it,
and had resolved to see Lawrence and stay with
him at the hall that night, and return to the
university in the morning.
They now came up to the spot where the con-
test had taken place. Both were armed with a
pistol each, for Tunstall had loaned Ket one of

his. They saw Edward standing above the body,
and heard him distinctly, in his self-accusatkn.
call himself a murderer.
" Then he is dead, and no mistake," said
Ket. "Let us at him ! We'll run in and both
fire at once !"
" No, no ! It wont do to shoot him, or we
shall be taken up for his murder," said the
more cautious Tunstall. "We will advance
upon him, and call upon him to surrender him-
self ! But it can't be possible that Lawrence is
really dead ! Yet the body lies there stark and
motionless, as if he were."
" There is no doubt about it," answered
Ket.
"Then let us arrest him ! If he resists,
shoot him; but not without."
They now both advanced, as we have before
narrated, and-called upon Edward to surrender
himself !
" Murderer, stand ! Give yourself up 1"
cried Tunstall, "or we will shoot you down !"
"Give myself up ?" repeated Edward, slow-
ly, as he looked at them through his tears.
," Give myself up ! 0, no ; 0, no, no I" he
added, with a deep tone of firm resolve.  "I
am not to give myself up to be pointed at as a
murderer !  Stand back !  Stand back, I say,
and let me pass !"  He uttered these last ordere
with terrible emphasis and fierce command. He
strode straight towards them ! Ket fired his pis-

t
i


66                KATE WYNYARD.

and fled. The ball grazed his bared head,
and he still advanced, while Tunstall retreated t
step by step before him, covering his breast with fi
his pistol's muzzle. " if you advance, I fire !"
Edward was reckless of life.  He pressed
steadily on, till at length. when he -was within h
three paees of Tunstall, the latter, intimidated I
by his bearing, and not having nerve enough tok
discharge his pistol, threw it down on the ground
and ran away to the left. Without heeding him, s
and standing over the weapon as it lay on the
dew-sparkling grass, Ed ward held his course
down the river path, turning neither to the rightI
nor the left. His eye seemed to be fixed and
looking on vacancy. Tunstall gazed after him, I
as if he had been a retiring ghost, till the dark t
figure was lost to his eyes in the obscurity of there
dark path, along which he moved.E
" The man has the courage of a devil!"
he said. " He fears nothing !"
"There isn't a harder fighter than he is, I
guess, in your college, nor no whar," remarked
Ket, now coming up. " He is a regular lion,
and no mistake at all about it !  Now, sir, let
him go ! We'll send the law after him as soon
as we see how it fares with master Manfred."
"Yes, we can catch him to-morrow.  I hope
Lawrence wont prove to be dead.   Let us go
and see."
They approached the 'silent spot with awe.
The motionless repose of the corpse, in the cold
moonlight, filled them with dread. They came
close to it, and Tunstall, bending over the face,
regarded it attentively. - At length he said :
" Dead ! He'll never speak again."
"That he wont. Well he was al'ays a friend
to me," said Ket, who tried to feel badly, as he
had lost one who freely paid him gold for his
lawless services.  "His mother'll take on; and
so'll Miss Isabel I"
nfs -cot' I,, ounded unlucky," said Tunstall,
his first superstitious awe fading before the
claims of selfishness. " I shall not get my
hundred now ! It is true, I haven't got to repay
him the borrowed hundred; but I should never
have paid that any how. It is a dead loss of
a hundred t me. Ket I"

What, sir," answered Ket, aho was trying
o find a pulse in the stiff wxiist, for it was hard
or him to realize that his employer was deed.
"You had best go and alarm the hall !"
"So I had, sir. It wont do to let him lay
ere. No good can be done him any how, now.
His head is brole in here on the back. He's
killed with the cudgel."
" Go and bring the servants and a barrow of
ome kind, to convey the body borne."
"And beant you afeard to stay here alone ?"
" No, I have courage enough for the dead.
They can do no harm."
"II wouldn't trust 'em! Well, I'll go, and
be back in twenty minutes, I guess. 0, wont
the old lady take on when she hears it? It's a
mighty ugly wound, sir !   He couldn't ha'
spoke or stirred after he got this blow!"
"Let the head alone, Ket, and go at once."
Ket departed and was soon out of sight.
"Now let me take time by the foiclock.
This is my opportunity, or never," he said,
when he found himself alone with the body.
"He must have had money about him. I never
knew him without it !"
He then looked carefully around him, and,
stooping down, thrust his hand into his vest
pocket, out of which he took two or three dol-
lars in silver, and a gold pencil case. He then
removed his gold watch, by lifting the head and
passing the costly chain over it. Having put
this hurriedly in his pocket, he turned the body
partly over on its side to get at the pocket book
in the skirt pocket.  But he could not get it
out without cutting the cloth on the outside.
This he effected with his own dirk-knife, and
drawing forth the pocket, he threw the knife
down to open-the book, which he.saw was filled
with bank notes, several of which were for one
hundred dollars.  He gave utterance to an ex-
clamation of surprise and delight, and, without
counting them, he closed it and placed it safely
in the breast pocket of his own coat. He now
proceeds to examine another pocket in which he
feels a purse well filled. He has to cut this out
also, and, in doing so, wounded the body, and
stained both purse and knife with blood.

"I think I have made a good haul of it !"
he said to himself, exultingly, as he weighed the
purse, heavy with gold, in the palm of his hand,
before putting it away.
But, unobserved in all this, he is not.  Hu.
man eyes are watching him from a boat on the
river, towards which his back is turned.  This
boat was one of the market boats, which float
down both night and day, bound to the city
with their small freights of a few dollars value.
The three men, or rather two men and a boy.
who sailed, had heard, some distance off, the
report of the pistol which Ket had shot at Ed.
ward, and were on the watch, with their eyes
fixed on the bank, at about the spot whence it-
came, to see what could have caused it, and the
voices which they had also heard.  They were
not rowing, but drifting silently along the lim-
pid wave with the descending ebb, so that their
approach was noiseless to the scene of the mur-
der.  The light of the moon was bright enough
to reveal, distinctly, the two figures on the shore,
that of the murdered man, and that of Tunstall,
bending over him.
" It be a man murdeiin' a man," said the
elder of the boatmen to the others, in a whisper
of horror.
"Yes, it be so, for I seed the glitter o' his
knife stickin' in him."
" An' he's robbin' him, too, fayther," said
the boy,
"Get up the duck-gun, Sol," whispered the
old man, resolutely, "and gin it to me ! That's
it.  Now you pull the oars softly-don't let him
hear ye-and send her right in, smack, to
shore !"
All this was said and done in less time than
we are relating it. The old man, who was one
of those tall, strong men of the revolutionary
stock, having examined the priming of his gun,'
sprang ashore, followed by his son armed with
an oar, and his grandson, with a hatchet. Tun-
stall was so much occupied, that if they made any
noise he did not heed it, his vigilance being di-
rected towards the road,, and not towards the
river, towards which his back was turned, and

from which he evidently suspected no observers
of what he was engaged in.
"Yes, I have done better by Lawrence dead
than alive. I must have got, at least, a thou
sand dollars. This is a fair night's-
He is startled by a noise behind him. He
sees the three river-men advancing, and jumps
to his feet, while the guilty blood leaped to his
forehead like lightning.
"Who you been murderin' there'?" called out
the old man. " Give yourself up, or I'll blow
you inter the middle o' next week !" And he
levelled his long ducking gun at his head, while
the two others brandished, one his oar, and the
other his hatchet.
"I didn't murder him-I-only--T----"
"Down on your marrow bones, I say ! Down,
quicker !" called out the old boatman, in a
stentorian tone, advancing upon him, the green-
ish moonlight gleaming along the barrel in a line
with his body.
" I tell you I didn't kill him ! It was--"
The son would not let him finish, but run-
ning forward with his uplifted oar, was about to
felt him to the earth with it, when Tunstall, as
the safest course, under the circumstauces, drop-
ped on his knees. The old man then advanced,
and sending his boy to the boat for a line, soon
had him securely bound with his hands behind
him, in spite of his lamentable and ludicrous
protestations of innocence; to all which the
stout yeomen gave no heed. They then carried
him and put him down in the little fore cuddy
of the boat and locked him in. Then returning,
they examined the body, which they had already
recognized as that of Lawrence, whom they
knew, as they dwelt not far above the Brown
Bear. While they were looking at the corpse,
and wondering that one man should kill another
to rob him, Ket came on the ground, followed by
three servants, who brought a rude barrow, used
by the gardener in carrying about heavy plants.
The former was not a little suspicious at finding
the three countrymen there, and Tunstall absent.
He was about to ask where he was, when the old
man, who was well known to him, said, as he
drew near:

KATE WYNYARD.               67


8                           .KATE WYN YARD.
A  dreadful murder, Mr. Ket.   We see taken up from the grass. The result of this
him stick a knife in him after he had knocked search made him unmerciful ; for the very idea
him down, and robbing him. But we've got which Tunstall had practically carried out, hhd
him safe."                                 occurred to his own mind, as he was returning
Got who safe ?" asked Ket, with bewilder- from the Hall with the three serving men. He
ment.                                      now went on board, and called out to Tunstall:
"The murderer. We heard a shot away up    "I see you have turned robber, if you are.
the river a long piece ; and when we got down not the murderer. Where is his pocket book?"
here we found him quietly plunderin' him,"   "I don't know. I have done nothing. You
"Can it be Mr. Tunstall'?" thought Ket. are not going to turn against me, Ket.  You
"Where is he?"                             know I didn't do the murder ! O, let me out. I
"Locked up in the Cuddy."               shall be murdered."
"Let me see him," said Ket; hastening on  Btherbry!
boar alne." But the robbery ."
Wo is it, in here?" he asked, stooping    " I didn't rob him !" he yelled, in anguish.
oW.?"Skipper," said Ket, "will you unlock and
downIt is me---Tunstall !" came the voice, as if let us search him ?"
from a tomb.   Is it you, Ket?"             The cuddy door being opened, Tunstall was
"YoetobHow came they to think you mur- searched, and the pocket-book and purse being
der.H'?",                           found on him, as well as Lawrence's diamond
d I don't know. I suppose because they saw ring, Ket's pity turned to hatred, and h6 said
me by the body. Let me out. Undeceive coolly to the skipper :
thmfor heaven's sake!l I am suffering for  ."Lock him up again, and keep him safe. I
them,f    e     swill hand these things to the family."
want of air."
"No, no. Don't think o' lettin' the villain  . They thrust him in again, crying and shriek-
out t" said the old man. "He was robbin' the ingf:
ou"  a           a.t          b    te       "Idd' o him! .     I only took themfrm
body, and here's a watch that my boy, there  h I didn't rob hm safe.  I didn't murder him !
pulled out o' his trousers pocket, a'ter we tied, him to kepthmsf. Idn'mueri!
him, t chai hai ou t, a t  w    It was Edward Blacklock that killed him ! He
him, the chain hanging out a foot'."i                    "
" It's master Manfred's watch," exclaimed murder  m I"
.et with indignation.  "And you saw him " That is a foul lie," said the skipper's son,
'r  .m                                 who was about Edward's age. "I know Black-
robbing him, did yodid."                   lock, and he would no more do such a deed than
" He'sunordoubt, the murderer, then," said I would. If you try to lay it on him, I will
Retsavaelythrow you overboard, you bloody villain l"                  I
"0, Ket,don't believe them. It is false !"  " Did we not see you on the body with your
cried Tunstall, from the lobby.            knife in your hand ?" demanded the old man.
"We'll see to that, Mr. Tunstall," said Ket, "Have not his things been found on you?
with malice ; for, though he had no objections to You'll hang for it, high as Haman was hung for
pilfering Lawrence's pockets, himself, he had no killin' Mordecai."
favor towards any other person who would fore- Tunstall was about to reply, but he was si-
stall him in this privilege. But he resolved to lenced by a threat that he should be gagged if
ascertain the fact, before yielding up Tunstall, he spoke again. The men's ire was fairly up
altogether. He, therefore, approached the body that he should presume to lay the murder upon
again, and searching the pockets, found them all one whom they knew, and loved, and honored,
empty, the coat pockets cut, and was 'shown, by -as abovy'suspiciou of such a deed. Tunstall
the boatmen, Tunstall's knife, which they had lay on the deck of the cuddy, groaning in an-

guish of spirit, and lamenting the dreadful issu
of his night's adventure.
The body of thy unfortunate Lawrence wa
placed 'on tlhRarrow atid bto'rne away, folrowe
by Ket, after he had had some talk with the
river-men about the disposal of their prisoner.
You had best take him right into Boston
where you are going," said he.  " He'll be saf
er there."
e"I was thinkin'," said the old man, whetheri
to do so, or to leave him at Cambridge.; but
then we'd have to land and walk up to the jail,
and he might get away from us ; and besides it
would detain us too long, as we must be in Bos
ton by daylight, to be in the market,"
"I think we'd best take him right into the
city, father," said the son
This course was decided on, and Ket, shak.
ing hands with the two men. left them, and went
after the body, leaving Tunstall in the hands of
his captors, under charge of this murder, with-
out one feelmg of compunction. To his vicious.
and selfish mind it was a just revenge uponthim
for robbing the body which he had intended to
rob himself; and secretly, he resolved, that, in
order to get himself avenged on Tunstall, he
would never breathe the name of Edward Black.
lock as connected with Lawrence's tragic end.
Coming to-this resolution, he stopped to hide
the watch, purse and pocket-book in a hollow
tree ; and, having safely concealed them, he
went on after the bearers of the dead.
We will now follow Edward-in his retreat from
the painful scene of his conflict with the fallen
Lawrence.  For some minutes he marched rap-
idly forward, with a fixed gaze on.vacancy, and
set lip, as if his mind was strung to its utmost
tension, by this strong aflliction which had be-
fallen him. At length, when he found himself
once more back again amid the ruins of the old
church, where he had so short a time before
been made so happy with the sweet confession
of the beloved sister of Manfred,; he cast bin-
self upon his face, on the step, and wept long
and bitterly;like a very child. His loud sobs
rang terribly through the echoing pile, and his
Avhole frame was shaken with the mighty emo-
-46

e tion of his soul. It is a fearful thing to witness
manly grief-to see the strong man give way to
s womanly weeping ! To woman, tears are natur-
i al as the falling dew. But it is man's nature to
e hide his grief-to let its fierce current flow with-
in, like those subterranean rivers that hide
their deep tide underneath the earth's bosom;
but as these sometimes find a sudden outlet and
then gush forth in deluging, torrents, so will
r man's hidden tide of grief oftentimes find vent,
t and pour forth its flood of long pent up waters
in terrible strength, amazing all with its unex-
t pected force. So wept Edward Blacklock ! He
wept over the total wreck of all his hopes ! He
wept that the life of a human being lay at his
hand ! He wept at the grief Isabel would feel,
when she should learn that her brother was
. dead ! and faster flowed his tears, mingled with
groans, and moaning at the overwhelming hor-
ror which would take possession of her when it
should be told her by whose hand he had fallen.
iHe wept, too, for his mother's woe, when she
should hear that her son had slain a manI
" 0, this is more than I can bear ! more than
I can bear ! It will crush me to the earth !
Would that it might crush me!  Would that I
could die here ! Would that I could yield my
life here, in atonement to Isabel for the life of
her brother. Never can I be forgiven by her.
She will loathe me !   Whither shall I fly!
What is to become of me ! I am an outcast and
a wanderer on the earth; and I can say with
Cain, ' Every man that seeth me shall slay me !'
Yes, they will hunt me! Men will be on my
track ! Even now they may be upon me ! Shall
I suffer myself to be borne to a prison-to be
arraigned as a murderer-to be hanged as a mal-
efactor,?  No, no! I have, indeed, slain Man-
fred Lawrence, but I:sought not his life. But
the world will not know this ! I am known to
have slain him. Ket, who attacked me,, doubt-
less saw m4 kill-him:! , Tunstall, too-and how
eanoe he there ?-.-he knows it ! Soon the oflicers
of the law will know it*!. I wildly ! I will not
degrade Isabel-my mother, more--by being
executed. It is enough that they hear that I
am a- murderer. Farewell, dear spot ! Fare-

KATE WYNYARD.


70                KATE WYNYARD

well, spirit of Isabel, once here present ! I
shall see thee no more ! Henc8forth welcome E
death--welcome any fate my dark destiny has in I
the future, for a wretch like me !"
He km It. He kissed the stone slab! He I
rose and stood upon his feet, and raised to- 
wards heaven his clasped hands, and said :
" Mercy-mercy-mercy I Thou knowest I I
am innocent in heart of this man's death I Sparea
me, and let me not be punished greater than Ic
ean bear !"t
He then left the ruin, and precipitately de-
scended the side which led northward and down
the river. He would gladly have gone to the
inn to have'seen his mother and taken leave of
her ; but he apprehended that he should fall
into the hands of some persons who might be in
pursuit of him. It lacerated his very soul to
leave his mother, on her first widowed day, a
prey to her lonely sorrow.   This reflectionI
sharpened his anguish. - He hurried onward,1
trying to fly from the many thoughts that tor-
tured him. He hardly knew whither he was
going.  He had some vague notion of reaching
Boston and ermbarking, he knew not, cared not,
whither. Onward he hastened, keeping close
to the river, and moving with a speed that, at
the end of half an hour, brought him in sight of
the cottage. He was surprised to see it; for he
hardly realized where he was, or the rapidity of
his movements.
"I will stop here and say farewell !" he said,
sadly. "They cannot yet have heard of my
crime. I will send by Catharine a last fare-
well, and ask forgiveness of Isabel-but 0, how
can she forgive me'?"
The unhappy young man advanced to the
cottage door. As he drew near he heard a voice
mingled with the notes of deep grief. He rec-
ognized it as that of the widow. He opened the
door with forebodings of evil tidings to hear;
for he now recollected the forged note which had
drawn Captain Wat from his home, leaving it
unprotected. The door was ajar. He entered
softly, and beheld the widow on her knees. and
ner race buried in her hands, while tears trick-
led through her fingers.

"0, mercy-mercy, for my poor child !
Shield her from her enemies, Thou who art the
Father of the widow and the orphan !" These
were the words of earnest supplication which
Edward heard, and he knew that some outrage
had been committed.
" Do not despair?   You do right to trust in
Heaven, Mrs. Wynyard," he said, approaching,
and speaking with deep feeling.  "It is our
only support in deep trouble. But what has
happened to Catharine. Where is Captain
Walter ?"
"0, have you heard of her ?" cried the wid-
ow, rising as he spoke to her, and taking him
wildly by both hands. "Where is my child ?"
"Indeed, I 'do not know. Pray explain, dear
Mrs. Wynyard ; what has happened ?"
"Catharine has been carried off again ! A
young man came here with a note as from you
for Walter to go to you instantly. As soon as
he had gone, some one came running in and'
said he was drowning; and Catharine hastened
from the house with the messenger, suspecting
nothing but that he was telling her the truth.
But she did not come back, and I began to think I
should lose both my children, when a black man
who works at the tannery, came in and said he
had seen two men carry Catharine off in a car-
riage. 0, my child I my child! What will be-
come of her, Mr. Edward'?"
"Where is Walter ?"
"lHe was here half an hour ago, and soon as
he heard what had been done, he set off with
his four men up the road in pursuit. He told
me you had written no such note to him."
"I did not. It was a trap, I see, to get him
out of the way. I deeply sympathize with you,
Mrs. Wynyard. I wish I knew where to go
with any hope of finding her," he said, forget-
ful, for a moment, of his own danger, in his
anxiety to relieve the distracted mother, and res-
cue the lovely girl.
" It is, no doubt, Manfred Lawrence, who has
done it," said the widow.
Edward's cheek became the hue of death at
this name, and then, with all the blood of his
heart rushing to his brain he answered, with an'

KATE WYNYARD.                                      71
entirely changed voice that made her stare at turning which led to the old brick farm-house,
him:                                        and beheld the back there in waiting with Tun-
",No, not he! He has nothing to do with it ; stall in it. It will be remembered by the reader
of that be assured."                       that this worthy, after leaving Catharine in
"Then you know who it is ?"              charge of the woman, got again into the hack
"0, wquld that I did, madam. I would not and drove back to this point to wat for Law-
stand here. 0, this has been a dreadful night." rence, to come and give him his reward, while
"Youdhere. look fit-u harben i M d E wd m . Ket crossed over the fields by a shorter way. It
will be remembered, also, that Tunstall gave as
Sit down. What is the matter ?"            a reason for being found by Ket after the con-
He made no reply. The recollections of the flict in the wood, that he had, while sitting in
slain Lawrence, rushing with all its consequences the carriage, heard persons coming along the
upon his mind, overpowered him. ie felt the road, and he had, therefore, left, it. These per-
room swim with him, and had just time to avail sons were Captain Wat and his four seamen.
himself of the chair to save himself from falling As they drew near the carriage, they saw it
at length upon the floor. In a state half con- driving to meet them, Tunstall having ordered
scious to things external, and his inward con- it to return at once back to Cambridge.
sciousness fearfully vivid, he long remained like  " We'll stop this carriage, lads, if it were a
one nearly insensible, utterly broken down and duke's," said Wat Wynyard. "If it isn't ours
prostrated by his dreadful destiny.        it may give us some .news. Heave to 1" shout.
In the meanwhile Captain Wat and his men, ed the sailor captain.
after quitting the cottage in search of Catharine, Deaf Jacob, however, continued to drive on,
continued their way along the road which led when the captain and two of his men caught the
towards Grasmere Hall. The' track of the car- horses by the head. They saw the carriage wae
riage which they had taken up at the head of empty. Jacob being interrogated soon showed
the lane, and followed by the print of its tire, that he was deaf. The captain now examined
which was marked by the absence of one of the the wheels, made the coach move on a few yards
nails, led them unerringly. They were without to see the impression, and exclaimed, with an
horses, and continued their way on foot, Cap- oath which we do not think it expedient to
tain Walter fully assured in his own mind that print :
it would bring them to the residence of Manfred  "This is the very carriage ! Now we will
Lawrence.                                  make this fellow understand us, or cut his ears
At length they came near the bead of the off!"

.
,
y


CHAPTER X.
Wynyard's unsuccessful search 'at the house in the forest.  En counter with Ket.
of Kate from    her prison.   The marketman's barge, and young Lovewell.
iniscence of the past.  Kate on' board.   At home, safe.   Joy of the -mother.
joins the captain's vessel. A plighted troth.

EAF JACOB was not long in compre-
hending that his nautical captors desired
him to turn round and go back whence he came.t
They seated themselves four inside, and Captain
Wat upon the box, and in twenty minutes'
driving they were at the door of the lonely
brick mansion. Deaf Jacob had sense enough
to know that he had been engaged in a lawless
affair, and lie very reluitantly found himself in
the power of the power which now had control
of his movements. He was, however, perfectly
submissive, and pointing to the. door with his
whip, be uttered a strange squealing sound, in
his efforts to talk, and to tell them the young
girl was within the dwelling.
Captain Wat was soon hammering away for
admittance, and no one coming, he broke it
open with a log of wood, and entered. All
was silent and dark. There was some fire in a
grate, by which he lighted a candle that he saw
by its faint glare.  With this he went all over
the large old house, only three rooms of which,
out of ten which it contained, having any ap-
pearance of being inhabited.
"There is nobody here !" said Walter, to his
men, who had followed him in the. search.
" The deaf fellow has hung out false signals to
us.  But here's fire, and people have been!
here."
"Perhaps, captain," said one of his men,

Escape
A rem-
Edward

they heard us coming, and hid her away."
This idea led the captain to institute a search
through the cellars and garret ; but with the
like results. He then went out to give the driver
a railg for his deception, and saw him driving
off at full speed, and too far off to be overtaken-
on foot. At this he roared like a line gale, and
resolved that he would strike at once for Gras-
mere Hall, which, from his boyish recollections of
the country, he knew was not far distant through
the wood.    He expected to find Lawrence
there, if not Kate,-or at least to get some in-
telligence of her. As he finally got through
the forest, and was passing round the wall of
the garden, he encountered the bearers of Law-
rence's body. Upon learning from them, as
they stopped to rest, whose corpse it was they
carried, his exclamation expressed his surprise
to hear of his sudden death.
"He didn't run off with my sister, that is
certain," he said, to himself, as the men moved
on again. In three minutes more, while he was
making his way with uncertainty down the road
towards the river, hardly knowing where to go
next, and quite shocked at the death of: Man-
fred Lawrence, he met Ket. , The latter was
making the best of his way to overtake the
body, after having lingered, as we have seen,
to conceal the watch and pocket-book in a hol-
low stump. Upon seeing the five men swing-

1

KATE WYN YARD.                73

chap that gave me the note."

R Ket made a superhuman effort to break away,
and leaving his rent jacket in his hands, was
bounding off like a deer, when two of the sail-
ors intercepted his flight, and brought him back
to Captain Wat, held fast between them.
You don't leave us,*hipmate, till you show
clean papers," said the captain, as he laid his
grasp once more on his collar.  "You know
Where my sister is. Tell me at once, or I'll
choke you to death "
I don't know nothing about her."
You brought me the forged note. It was
to get me out of the way, while you, or some
-other rascal, stole her off. Now, you don't get
off till you tell me all."
I'll tell you all I know, for it's no harm
now, as he's dead," said Ket, fairly trembling
3 at the savage countenances of the five men into
whose hands he had fallen, all of whom showed
either knives or pistols,.and one of them was
armed with a cutlass., " She was taken off by
Mr. Lawrence, who is now dead'; at least, he
was to pay me and another, Tunstall, wile is
now a prisonerfor murdering and robbing him.''
"And where is she ?-with this Tunstall ?"
demanded Captain Wat, ferociously.
" No. Tunstall is tied in the cuddy of a
boat, down on the river, and on his way to pris.

ing down towards him, he recognized Captain
Wat at once, and divining his errand, turned
short to avoid meeting him, and tried to climb
the wall into the lawn.
"Ho, avast there, shipmate, or I'll give you
a broadside !" he called out, clicking his pistol.
" We are on a war cruise to-night, and bring
everything to."
Ret, finding that, if he attempted to get over
the wall, he would be dropped by a leaden bul-
let, came into the road again, trusting that he
would not be recognized by him.
." What do yer want ? I'm in a hurry !" he
said, trying to appear unconcerned.
"All in good time, lad. Have you seen any-
thing of a young woman? or-   By the lord
Harry !" he exclaimed, springing forward and
grasping him by the collar. "You are the very

}J
i]
.
S
r
.3
'J
3
1
_

l

}f
i'j'YY
i3

on. Your sister-    But will you let we go
free if I tell you ?"
"Yes-if you tell the truth, and she is res-
cued in honor."
" Then, she is at the old. red house in the
forest."
" The house which you reach by a turn in
the road, with- two ruinous wings, and one
chimney fallen ?"
"Yes-that is my mother's     Your sister
was left there by the hack, two or three hours
ago."
"She is not there. The house has not a
soul in it. I have searched it from garret to
cellar."
At this Ket showed signs of surprise.
"If she aint there, I'm plagued if I know
where she is. I left her there with the old
woman."
" Nobody is there. You must 'go with me
until you can tell me a better tale than this.
Tie him, lads."
One of the men removed his long scarf from
his neck, and bound his hands behind him with
it, and then tied the ends of the scarf to his
own knife belt, so that he could. not get away.
"I tell ye, I don't know where she is, if she
aint to home, nor the old woman, nuther,"
howled Ket. "Mr. Lawrence didn't see her
at all, afore he was killed. You ought n't to
hurt me, when I've told all I know ; and you
ought n't to punish me, when I was only obey-
ing his orders. If you want to have your re-
venge on any one, you should find Tunstall.
It was he that held her in the coach.".
"I'll try and find him, if the law doesn't
keep him too close, you may be assured. But
I shall keep you, too."
"There's my old woman, now!" yelled Ket,
pointing to a tall female figure striding along
in the bright light of the moon, in the middle
of the road, and panting as if she were out of,
breath, while she muttered curses as she walked.
"Then, capture her," cried the captain, to
two of his men. The woman was coming from
the direction of the river. Her head was bare,
and the gray hair, which was cut short, liae a


74                               KATE WYNYARD.
man's, shone silvery in the moonlight, as it her arms securely pinioned with the leatherni
hung dishevelled about her neck. Her dress belt of one of her captors.
was open and disordered, and stuck or knotted  " You have given us good news, woman,"
into her girdle, leaving her lower limbs free to said Walter.  " I hope my sister will soon be
run.  Upon seeing the party, she stood still and found. You will keep with us, you infernal
seemed to survey them ; but when she saw the hag, till she is found. Come' on, and tell me
two men detach themselves from the group, and where she disappeared."
approach the spot where she stood, she uttered " I'll not tell you a word if you throttle me."
a fierce oath of defiance, and started on a run " The dam has more pluck than her chicken,"
that soon distanced the seamen, unused to giving said one of the men.
chase on land.                                "Lead her along, Jack,"    said Walter;
"If ou do not call on your mother to stop, "and to you three I give both in charge. Take
I will blow  our brains out," said Captain Wat, the river road down with them, and don't let
ressing the cold muzzle of his pistol against them get away. Follow the shore, and you'll
the forehead of the young accomplice. It gave reach the cottage i a couple of hours. I am
him eloquence of tongue at once.            now going on ahead in search of my poor Kate,
The                             who is no doubt wandering through the woods
"Mother!. Mother . Stop! They wot along the river, seeking to find her long way
harm you !  Come here !  Here's your partic- home.  Curses light on both dead and living
ular friend !" added Ket, whose wickedness for this night's work."
was so great that he was ready to sacrifice  s  Hhis   left them and hastening forward, he
mother for his own preservation.              He then letteadhseigfowrh
preservation.as soon out of sight in the direction of the
Upon hearing his voice, she stopped, and the Charles river. We will now return to the fair
captain recalled the men.                   straw-braider, whom we last left at the old brick
"What are you doing there ?  Who be they house, under charge of the mother of Ket.
with ye ?"                                  When she found that she was alone with the
"All good friends, mother. They didn't woman, and that the carriage had driven off,
know it was you."                          she resolved, with the courage and resolution
Then, I'm pesky glad to meet with ye and which was a part of her character, to take this
your company ; for I want ye to help find the opportunity to effect her escape, even at the risk
girl.  She's broke out and took to the woods, of losing her life. The room in which the wo-
and I after her, till I've lost her this quarter of man had taken her was on the first floor, a large,
an hour, and I've run myself to death. She ill-furnished and gloomy apartment. Her jailer
took for the river, and I in full chase ; but I lost had locked the door on the inside, and taken
sight of her down below here a piece, and hear. out the key, and the wooded shuts, were closed,
ing you up' here, I thought it might be her. so that no light came in, except what was ad-
Just you put in that direction, and you wont mitted through the circular openings in the tops
fail to come up with her." All the while that of the shutters, made therein for this purpose.
she was talking she was approaching them;'but Catharine'looked round and surveyed all her
when she came so near as to see that Ket was tied prison at a glance. At the back of the room
and a prisoner, and that the men were seamen, was a trap door that led into the cellar by half,
and armed, she made an attempt to escape by a dozen slipping steps.,. This door was raised,
racing past. But she was captured, though not and the lid hanging back again tlthqttruckle-
without a severe combat, and being finally fairly bed.  +rom where she sat she could see that it
knocked down by Jack with the butt end of his was where they kept their wood andgvegetables,
pistol. She was, however, stunned only for a The darkness, howeyer, was illumsined by what
moment; and, on coming to herself, she found seemed to her to he light from some outlet un-

der the house. In a faint hope that she might
by this means effect her escape, she resolved to
make the attempt ; and suddenly springing up,
she bounded towards the trap and descended
it, pulling the heavy lid after her. She was for,
a moment in darkness, but a light was visible
in the distance, and she made towards it, and
found that it came from a low window level with
the ground. It wasopen, and in a moment she had
effected a passage through it, and was flying like
a hunted chamois over the old fields in the rear
of the house. The old woman had taken some
time to raise the trap and follow her ; and not
being able to get through the narrow window,
she had to return, re-as'eend to the upper room,
and make her way out by the door. All this
delay gave time and advantage to the lovely
fugitive; but the speed at which the woman ran
promised speedily to make up for the temporary
delay. Kate kept on straight for the grove, and
striking a path in it, followed it quite out of
sight of Grasinere Hall, and by it was,,eonducted
in a circuitous way to the river. The woman
held on after her as long as she could, till at
length she lost sight of her altogether, not but
five minutes before she was fallen in with by
our party of sailors, and taken prisoner and held
hostage for the safety of the fugitive. Upon
finding that she was no longer pursued, the fly-
ing girl slackened her speed to get breath. She
looked around-to see where she was, but could
not, by the moonlight, recognize woodland
scenery that she had beheld only once or twice
before, and only by daylight.
"I am   by the water side, however," she
said ; "and I know if I follow the river long
enough it will bring me home." She now
heard a rustling, or thought she did, of the
leaves behind her, and off she went again, as
light of foot as a hare bounding over the heath-
er. All at once, after she had run full half a
mile, she came suddenly upon a boat that' was
rowing down the river, and so closely to the
bank, that by a bend of the shore she was brought
within twenty feet of it, before she saw it. A
glance told her it was a market-boat, and must
have honest men on boardi. Her joy'at seeing

it knew no bounds, and she was about to e ll to
them to land and give her shelter and p, otection,
when she was seen and bailed by a young man
whom the reader will recognize to be the skip-
per's son who had captured Tunstall ; for the
barge is the same which contains the captive
accomplice and pander to the .late Manfred
Lawrence's vices.  On its way down the river
they had reached that point. This young mad
we have, hitherto merely alluded to incidentally ;
but he is worthyto take a prominent place in
our narrative-for . More generous, true-mind-
ed, gallant fellow, for a plain farmer's son, than
Paul Lovewell, never graced the pages of a
romance. About. twenty three years of age,
fairly educated for his position, naturally intel.
ligent, he had a fine face, and an eye that ex-
pressed both courage and kindness. le would
be the inheritor of an independent farm on the
death of his father ; and he lived upon and used
the estate now -pretty much by his father's
consent as his own. He owned, besides, two
vessels, in which he used to convey his own pro-
duce to the market of the metropolis ; and alto.
gether, there was not, it was universally con-
ceded, a more promising match for a sensible,
nice girl, in all the country round than the
handsome Paul Lovewell. But Paul's heart
was not for any of the lasses who sought it
boldly. He had, however, lost it, and to a
maiden. whose name he did not even know. It
happened on this wise. About two months
prior to this time, when we introduce him
hailing the shore .to ascertain who it was wan-
dering there on the banks atthis late hour, he
had been becalmed opposite the widow's cottage,
so that from the deck of his barge he could see
directly in the open door of the cottage. The
picture of content and peace, and affectionate
endearment, between mother and daughter, as
he guessed they were, pleased him. Kate soon
commenced singing, unconscious that the boat
was there, for the foliage of the banks partly
hid its presence. Her voice thrilled his soul,
and awakened emotions that he had never known
before,; though he had heard a, round score o
young ladiess sing before' without any such sea-

I

KATE WYNYARD.

x


76                KATE WYNYARD.

nations as he now experienced. A breeze at this
moment springing up, he was wafted from the
spot, but he carried with him the sweet echoes
of Ler voice, which seemed to play at bo-peep
in his heart all that night. From that time he
never passed the cottage that he did not Teel a
desire to come to and go in and make the
acquaintance of the lovely girl, whom every
week, as he went down or up, he saw seated in
the door, braiding straw, or at the window, wat-
ering plants, or in the garden, trimming them,-
or by the water side, bending Aver to fill her
pail. Always on these oceAns, he gazed with
the most ardent interest in her, and as he thought,
she more than once, in looking towards him as
he sailed past, seemed aware of his particular
admiration. At length fortune favored him be-'
yond his hopes. About a week before we have
introduced him to the reader, he was passing
the cottage on his way to Boston, under full
sail, when he was delighted to see her coming
down to the river side to fill her pail. The
grace and symmetry of her air and movements
filled his eye with sweet rapture, while the
blooming beauty of her face captivated his
senses. As she bent over to dip her pail in, it
escaped from her hand, and went swimming
down the current. " 0, my pail!" she ex-
claimed, clasping her hands in pretty despair,
and glancing unconsciously towards the barge.
"You wont lose it, I will get it for you,"
answered Paul, delighted to have such an op-
portunity of speaking to her, and opening his
acquaintance with her, by doing her a favor.
Putting his helm up, he ran in towards the
shore, and darting past the pail, he caught it
by the handle, and took it on board. He then
steered his vessel along side of a rock that jut-
ted- out from the bank, and bidding his nephew,
the lad we have already introduced to the read-
er, keep her steady, he leaped on shore, and
'with native politeness, handed the bucket to1
Kate, blushing like a peony at the idea of
speaking, face to face, with the beautiful girl
who had so long held possession of the throng
of his heart. Kate thanked him with grace,,
and told him she was sorry she had to put him

to so much trouble. To this he replied that it
was a pleasure to him, that it gave him an op-
portunity of becoming acquainted with her, that
he had often seen her as he passed, and heard
her sing, and wished to know her, but feared
that he would never have that happiness. He,.
therefore, considered himself peculiarly fortu-
nate in passing at the moment the bucket was
lost.
To this very handsome and frank speech,
Kate blushingly replied that she was very glad
to know him, and she then asked him in.
"I will not go in now," he said, "but I will
call some time, with your permission."
"I shall always be glad to see you. You
did not tell me your name.",
"It is Paul Lovewell."
"Are you the cousin to Mary Lovewell who
lives at Brookline ?"
"Yes. Do you know her ?"
"I was at school with her last year. I have
heard her speak of you," she added, looking in
his face, as if she was gratified at the meeting ;
for she saw, with a woman's eye, that the young
man was greatly pleased with her. This is one
of the first secrets a maiden learns. Love can
never disguise itself. Lovers read each other's
hearts like open books.
This interview ended by Paul's filling the
pail and taking it to the door of the cottage,
where Kate introduced him to her mother, who
had witnessed all that had taken place between
them. She deepened Paul's satisfaction by
saying she knew his mother well when they
were young. and 'that she had heard that his
father was one of the most upright and well-to--
do men in the neighborhood. Paul hereupon
felt almost like being among friends; and he
left them and re-embarked, blessing the water
pail for the occasion it had afforded him of
speaking with the lovely girl who had so capti-
vated his heart.
Paul had not yet called again at the cottage
when we now find him descending the river with
Tunstall his prisoner.
" Who is that ?" he now called from the stern
of his boat, as the figure of Kate was seen in

the moonlight. His voice was abrupt and im-
perative, for the recent tragedy had put him
upon the alert at every sign of skulking along
the shore ; for he apprehended that there might
be an attempt made to rescue his prisoner.
"Are you country-people going to market'?"
asked Kate, who was alarmed by the stern
challenge.
" Yes.  (It is a woman, father I")
"0, then, land, and take me on board?  I
am in great danger'?" she cried.
"'That is her voice !" exclaimed Paul, with
his heart in his mouth; and as he was at the
helm, he rounded the vessel to, and drove her
bows dead on to the shore. The next moment
he was upon the land, and by the moon's rays
fully recognized her, pale as she was, and dis-
hevelled as her hair was, torn as her dress was.
What is the danger you fear?   How came
you here'?  Who would harm you ?  I will de-
fend you with my life 1"
"fIs it you, Paul?" she now almost shriek-
ed with joy, as she recognized him, and threw
herself almost upon his breast, in her joy at
finding shelter and safety ; for she felt that he
would and could protect her.
"Yes, it is me ! Come on board, and I will
protect you, and see you home," he said, with
amazement at her excitement, and at finding
her at midnight in such a situation, full four
miles from her mother's house.
She did not require a second request to go on
board, for every moment she expected to see
her pursuer behind her. Trembling like a leaf,
she seated herself by him- on the deck, for he
would not leave her side, or release her hand,
to which she nervously clung, as if she feared
that her safety might prove only a dream. He
bent over her and tried to soothe her with manlyI
words-; while his gray-haired father once more
put their vessel on her course, and steered her
down the stream.
"I will tell you briefly," at length!said Kate,
after she found that she was in no danger of1
pursuit or re-capture, " what needs explanation.
I have been forcibly carried awy from my
mother's house, to-night, and succeeded in ef-

fecting my escape from my captors, and was
wandering in the woods when your boat
appeared."
" Who were they that did this ?" demanded
Paul, with flashing eyes.
"I do not know them ; but they were hi -ed
by Manfred Lawrence."
" And he is murdered !"
"He murdered !" exclaimed Kate, between
horror and an indefinable sense of relief, both
of which ideas came into her mind at the same
instant.
" Yes ; he was slain to-night, and robbed
afterwards, by a man by the name of Tunstall."
"That is the name I"
"What name ?"
"The name they called the man who took
me in the carriage. He left me in a lonely
house, in the care of a dreadful woman, from
whom I escaped."
"Tunstall is on board here, bound, and lock-
ed up in the fore cuddy," said Paul. "It is
bad for him that I have-him in my power, now I
know what more he has done."
We will not here recapitulate the conversation
that now took place between Paul and Catha-
rine, as he related to her the particulars of Tun-
stall's arrest. After this subject was ended,
his thoughts ran into a tender channel, and he
began to breathe into her ear words of gentle
passion, which the maiden's ears did not unwil-
lingly listen to. She was grateful to him for
her present security ; she had thought a great
deal of him ever since the affair of the pail,
and if he half loved her now, she loved the'
other half, and their hearts met on the same
ground. When at length the boat came opposite
the cottage, they were both, to tell the truth, a
little sorry that the cottage was not a mile fur-
ther down the river.
- As they sailed in to land, Edward and the
widow were recognized on the bank,, watching,
having heard 'the boat. He had not long'
before been 'roused from the stupor of grief -
in which we left him; with more nerve and.
resolution to meet and struggle with the circum-
stances involving his life, What pen shall des-.

KATE WYNYARD.                77


78                               KATE WY
cribe the re-union of mother and daughter ?s
and who shall portray the widow's gratitude tot
Paul Lovewell?  She embraced him   as if hec
had been her own son, and ,with tears of joy,
called on Heaven to bless and reward him for
having brought her daughter back to her bosomt
in safety.  Edward, who recognized Paul as an
acquaintance, shook him warmly by the hand ;
and old Mr. Lovewell, and the grandson, Lot,
came in for their share of thanks.  All at once,
Paul taking Edward aside, said :
"Will you tell me the name of this beautiful
girl?
"Don't you know?    It is Catharine Wyn-
yard."
"It shall be written on my heart. Mr.
Blackloek."
"What, do you love her?"
"With all my soul. I have seen her several
times, and long loved her ; but to-night I be-
lieve she will return my love."
"I am glad to hear it. You are worthy of
each other. She is the best girl in the land."
"I know it. Iknow it. And the mother ?"
"There can be no objections to you, Paul.
Do you know that I have had you in my mind,
thinking over who she ought to marry, and
wished you were acquainted. She and her
mother are my friends, and I feel an interest in
seeing her well settled, for her own peace and
happiness."
"I am glad you have so high an opinion of
me," answered Paul. "But do you know that
Manfred Lawrence has. been murdered ? His
body was found, and--What has he seen that
has made him run towards 'the woodland so?"
Before Paul could answer his own inquiry at
the abrupt departure of poor Edward, on hear-
ing this death thus spoken of, the old man hail-
ed him, saying that they must make sail; for
they had delayed so often, they would hardly
reacBoston in time for the market.. In a few
minutes the-barge was'once more under nanvass,
movingion her course down the river.. When
Kate sawit disappear, she felt strangely lonely,
as if her only earthly support had gone. That
Paul carried her heart away,-that heart which

rNYARD.,

she believed could beat only for Edward,-.
there was no question. If Edward had return-
ed her tender regard, she would never have had
room for another's image ; but love that is all
on one side will soon wither, and a new love,
that meets requital, will efface all traces of the
old. This is human nature.
Edward had walked away from Paul to con-
ceal his emotion at the sudden allusion to Law-
rence's death.  " Surely," said he "this thing
is known everywhere ! 'Whither shall I fly ?"
" And why do you wish to fly ?" asked a
voice near him.
It was the captain, who had got thus far on
his search.
"She is safe, and in the house," answered
Edward, quickly.
" That's noble news, Master Blacklock. Did
she come on foot all the way, poor thing ?"
" No. Paul Lovewell took her on board his
barge, four miles up the river, and brought her
home."
" Paul shall be my best friend for this. How
does she seem? But I will go and kiss her, and
see for myself. Come in !"
" No-I will remain here. Come out after a
few moments, for I have something to say to
you?"
Captain Wat having embraced his sister, and
heard from her briefly an account of her adven-
tures, the recital of which he interrupted with
many an oath, he then asked his mother what
was the matter with Edward Blacklock.   " I
met him walking beyond the garden, and talk-
ing to himself, and he seems to have something
heavy on his mind. -But it is perhaps 'that he
buried his father so lately. I will go and see'
him. This is no time-for, gloom, now our lost
lamb has come home."
He went out and found Edward waiting for
him. He took the captain aside, and then
opening his heart to him, made known to him all
that he had done.  When'he had ended, he
stood silently, with his arms folded, awaiting the
answer of the flatter to this inquiry:
" What do you adviseme to do? for I am too
much agitated to act or judge for myself."

KATE: WYN YAR .

79

a.

"I advise you," responded the captain, tak- board, embarked at the cottage, and pulled
ing his hand, and speaking with kindness, "to down the river, reaching his vessel just at day-
go on board my sehooner at once with me. To. bread. He took leave of his mother and sister,
morrow I shall receive my despatches, and I from the latter of whom he received a frank
will then up anchor and away.  You will be confession that Paul Lovewell had made her an
safe there. Commit your fate and safety to me." offer of marriage.
Edward pressed his hand with emotion.      "And do you love him ?" asked her brother.
"We will sail across the sea. By and-by,   "Yes-I think I do."
when the affair is blown over, you can return.  "He is a fine young man, Edward says. You
You have nothing to condemn yourself for ; but have my consent. He will be a protector to
he was a rich young man, and money will not you. I will write him a note before I sail.
be spared to hang you for wilful murder. But This relieves my mind greatly on your account."
I was told by a fellow, Ket, that he was mur-  The four sailors had come up, in the mean-
dered by a man by the name of Tunstall."   while, with Ket and his mother, who, now that
"No, no ! I did it ! 1 will follow your ad- Kate was safe, were released and sent away, not
vice," answered Edward, with a voice tremulous a little gratified at so light a result of their un-
with emotion.                              natural co-operation in the abduction of Cath-
Before day, the captain, with Edward on marine Wynyard.

t3
y
3
L
t


CHAPTER XI.
Blindness of Justice.  The bearer of despatches.   Arrival at Cadiz. Another voyage.
The coast of    Africa.  The barranca.     Cruelty of Wynyard.    The voyage to Rio
Janeiro.
E do not know whether all who read The draw was slowly raised, and the vessel
this tale will acquit Edward Black- glided through the narrow passage, the observ-
lock of an error in flying from his country. ed, on account of its foreign appearance, of a
Some will agree in asserting that he ought to numerous crowd upon the bridge.  Leaving
have remained, and fearlessly delivered himself Bunker Hill on the left, and the city on the
up to justice. If justice were not blind, he right, the swiftly-sailing schooner stretched down
might have done this with safety. But justice the harbor, passed the Castle, and leaving one
is, unfortunately, too blind always to see the green island after another astern, by ten o'clock
facts as they are. Equity may one day, when was seaward of Boston light, and pressing all
the world is better, take the place of miscalled her canvass towards the pathless ocean.
justice ; and then every man will fearlessly  Secure in the protection of the vessel, Edward
commit his destiny thereto.  Edward flew be- had remained on deck as she went down the
cause he knew that he had no other witness to harbor, gazing, as he believed, for the last time
his innocence of intention of murder, than the upon his native shores. His eyes wandered to
Eye which seeth all things done on earth. He the interior, far over the city roofs, where his
feared to meet a human judge, but not the Judge heart told him was the abode of Isabel, who, he
of judges.                                  felt, was at that moment weeping over her dead
Upon reaching the vessel commanded by the brother, and her wretched love.
captain, he at once went below, and remained  " It is the most beautiful harbor in the
there until the schooner had received on board world," said a voice near him. It was that of
the bearer of despatches for Cadiz, who arrived the bearer of despatches, who was a young and
just after sunrise. Under a light breeze, the elegant foreigner, with an air of high breeding;
graceful craft passed Lechmere's Point, on the and he addressed Edward as if he recognized
left, and steered for the centre of the long in him an equal in station.
bridge that then alone spanned the Charles    " Very beautiful," answered Edward, scarce-
river, connecting Boston with the mainland. ly turning his head, and speaking sadly.

KATE WYNYARD.                 81

name. It is English."
S"Yes."
"I was.five years at school in England, when
I was a boy; and I am quite sure that name
was heard, or seen, or read by me. But it is
like an escaped dream. I. should not be sur-
prised if you were Jnglish."
" It may be so."
"If I were you, I would go from Cadiz to
England, and see who owns this 'name. By
persevering research, you may ascertain the se-
cret of your parentage."  Edward was thought-
ful, but made-no reply.

"Have you been in lurope ?" asked the
stranger.
"Never," answered Edward, trying to rouse
himself. Caplain Wat now came up, and said:
"Mr. Blacklock, this is the Count del Portello,
embassador from Portugal. I brought him over,
and he returns with me."  The two young men
bowed; and the lively wit of the count, his
fund of anecdote, his acute observations upon
men and things, his inexhaustible flow of spirits,
soon drew Edward out from the gloomy depth
of his thoughts.
During the voyage they became as intimate
as brothers, and each had told 'the other the
history of their lives. The count took a worldly
view of Edward's agency in Lawrence's death,
and almost reconciled him to it ; but his heart
continued sad on account of what he felt must
be the constant suffering of Isabel.
"That will pass, my dear Edward," said the
count, gaily, the day they came in sight of the
shores of Portugal. 4"You  will, by-and-by,
return, and you will be married and happy.
But what dwells most on my mind, is the strange
mystery of your early life. Have you no clew
whatever,?"
''Only the name upon the chest."
"And you did not tell me that."
"It is here. I copied it the day of my
father's death." Edward then placed in his
hand a slip of paper which he took from  his
pocket-book.
" CLIFFORD ST. CLAIR," repeated the count,
slowly. "It seems to me I have heard that

.
M
1
Fy
J.
";q
ti

The next day they reached Cadiz, and the
count landed and invited Edward to go on shore
with him. He found that he was in the confi-
dence of the count, and greatly esteemed, and
felt honored by his friendship. For several
days, in the noble pleasures of the court, to
which the count presented him, he enjoyed him-
self, and grew less and less despondent; nay,
became gay and cheerful, and much like his
former self. But in his lonely hours, he sor-
rowed for Isabel's wretchedness, in her lose love
for him.
One day, after he had been three weeks in
Lisbon, and two weeks in Cadiz, the captain,
whose vessel lay in the latter port, told him that
he was going on a cruise, and that if he would
accompany him, he should share in the profits
of the expedition.
"You say, my dear Mr. Blacklock," he re-
marked to him, " that you are strongly impress-
ed with a desire to visit England. I agree with
the count that your name is English ; and as
your parents have never turned up in America,
I shouldn't be at all surprised if you should
hear of them in the old country, Now, you
must have funds. You were too proud the
other day to accept any from me, when the gov-
ernment paid me the four thousand dollars I got
for my trip across to Boston."
" You can't expect me to be a dependent on
your bounty, my dear Captain Walter. I owe
you a debt of gratitude already."
" Well, if you won't have my money, I will
give you a chance of making some for yourself,
if you will go with me on this 'cruise."
"Where are you bound ?"
" That I will tell you, when we get off sound-
ings. We shall be back here, with 'twenty
thousand dollars, in ninety days, if all 'works
well."
" I will go with you. I suppose it is another
conveyance of dispatches."
" Thatis as it may turn out," answered
Captain Wat, with a laugh.
The week following, Edward enibarked inthe
schooner, the name of which we have not given,
for the very good reason. that it had no nMtne.


KATE WYNYA.KATE WYN

Edward had never heard it called by any other
appellation than the despatch vessel. The count,
unable to prevail upon him to go with him to
England-whither.he was going on a secret mis
sion-because Edward would not suffer him to
pay his expenses, nevertheless promised that in
England he would make some inquiries about
the St. Clairs. On the same day both departed
from Cadiz, the count for England, in a British
ship, and Edward southward, in the schooner.
The latter vessel ran south for eight days,
when one morning, as Edward came on deck,
he saw that the coast of Africa lay to leeward,
in an extended arid line of glittering sand and
black rocks. The schooner was running straight
in for the scarcely apparent mouth of a narrow
river.
"What place is this, we are approaching?"
said Edward, who had been wondering for a
day or two past why the captain kept on a south-
ern course so steadily, day after day.
"1That cape, a league to the south of us, is
Cape Barbas, and the river is the Rio Cypriano,"
answered the captain, coolly, smoking his cigar.
"And we are to enter the river ?"
"Yes, and sail up about nine miles."
"Is there a town there ?"
"No, only a barranca."
"What is that?"
"A   depot for Africans," quietly answered
Captain Wat.
"And what have we to do with the Africans
Do you intend to trade with them ?"
"Do you see any merchandise on board
Master Blacklook ?" he answered, significantly
"jTrue, you have only five or six boxes."
"'And those contain handcuffs and manacles
some three hundred plN."
"And why do you take such things to---
Is it possible," he suddenly exclaimed, as ligh
washed upon him, " that you are going to en
gage in the slave trade, Captain Walter ?"
"     PNogoing to, for I am  already in it.
have been pursuing it for four years past, an
haditproiztable. hIab in the einploy of a rio
hense-in Cadis, thathas abraneh in Rtio Janeiro
in Brasil. The one furnishes me with fund

and vessels, and the other receives and disposes
of my cargoes. The way I happened to be sent
to America, was this : My merchants in Cadiz
were fitting me out with a new vessel-this
same craft-and I was ready for sea, when the
government required a fast sailor to take a bear-
er of despatches to the United States, on some
private business, of the nature of whichI am
even now ignorant. So my vessel was offered.
The owners received twelve thousand dollars,
and I four, as my share. So you see I am now
only returning to my old trade again."
" If I had suspected that you-. But what
can I say?  I am an outcast ! How can I pre-
sume to dictate?  But I may state to you, cap-
tain, in a friendly wfty, that I would never vol-
untarily have placed myself in this situation.
Had you told me at Cadiz, I should not have set
foot on board your vessel. on a cruise such as
this proves to be."
"What would you have done?     You need
the money you would not accept from me."
"I can't share any made in this manner,
captain."
" Folly ! You must not haul off, now ! But
I won't urge you. You shall just look on."
" It is an infamous trade ; and I am amazed
that you-for you have really noble qualities
about you that I like-I am amazed that you
I should be engaged in it."
"To make money !   This is excuse enough,
? in the world's eye, for any pursuit."
"In the world's worst eye. But right-mind-
ed men look upon the trade with just ab-
horrence."
"Because they know nothing about it. But
, I must be on the lookout. Ahoy, there, aloft !
Is the coast clear ?  Any sign of these British
cruisers about ?"
t    " Not a speck to be seen, sir, on the horizon,"
- answered the lieutenant from the fore cross-trees,
as he swept the horizon with his glass.
I    " Ay, ay !  Now we will -ruan in, major, and
d get our load on board by daylight, and be at
b sea before noon."
, This was said to the fat, second lieutenant,
Is who, in his shirt sleeves,- Mas seated flat on the

around the neck, and communicate by a bar of
iron to a cross bar between the handcuffs ; thus
rendering it impossible for the wearer to use his
hands or turn his head. These, the captain
said, were for the most refractory.  There were
also instruments which the horrified Edward
had to inquire the use of. Some were for gags,
some were to fasten the feet to the hands, others
to press onthe eyes to keep them shut.  These
were all instruments, not of security, but o
punishment.
In the meanwhile the schooner was running
in under the land, and, by-and-by, entered the
mouth of the river, and with a free. breeze,
swiftly ascended it. The banks were destitute
of grass,. and were rocky and desolate. The
river was winding and deep, and after six miles
from the sea, a few clumps of bushes relieved
the monotony of the arid scene. At length, in
the distance, became visible a sort of walled enelo-
sure of great extent, upon the top of which was
flying a red flag, in answer to one which Cap.
tain Wat had already hoisted at his foremast
head. There was not a sign of human habita-
tion or of a human being to be seen on either

Captain Wat now got into the boat, and
inviting Edward to follow him, pulled ashore,
where he was met by the three men with the
welcome  of an old   acquaintance. Edward
thought he had never seen a trio of more true-
ulent looking rogues than they were.  One of
them was scarred across the face, and had lost
three fingers of his left hand; another had a
piece of his nose wanting, evidently sliced off
by a sabre ; and the third was less an ear. One
was English, another a Spaniard, and the third
looked like a Jew, yet might have been a Por-
tuguese. -They all spoke in the English tongue
with more or less facility.
.You have been away a long time, captain,"
said the man with the three fingers wanting.
"Yes-I have taken a trip to the States."
"We were afraid you had abandoned the
trade, you had such a narrow escape from the
Iritish cruiser the last time," said the other.
" How many black cattle have you in depot?"
asked the captain ; " I am impatient to get in
my cargo, arnd be. off while the coast in clear."
" There has not been a cruiser on the, coast

deck, engaged in cutting his corns, one of which side of the river, save this gloomy barranca,
protuberances crowned every toe ; for, in his standing dark and prominent above the level
vanity, fancying he had a small foot-and each country about it. In two hours after leaving
foot weighed seven pounds-he wore them al- the sea, the schooner anchored in front of the
ways squeezed into tight shoes, that kept him depot for slaves, and within fifty yards of a sort
swearing and limping from morning till night. of quay of loose stone. Edward stood on the
"How many shall you take on board ?" asked deck, regarding the place with deep and painful
the major, strapping his razor on the horny ball interest. The barranca was a large square
of his foot.                                structure of wood and mud, like a block-house,
"We can stow three hundred and twenty." andenclosed by a high and strong palisade of
"Three hundred human beings in this small interwoven cane. There was a small gate, just
vessel !" exclaimed Edward, with amazement. large enough to admit one man, that opened
" Why, we are enough now on board to dwell directly opposite the mole. When the schooner
comfortably together."       .              came to and anchored, a man who was standing
" You will have changed your mind by to- upon a look-out tower at one angle, fired off his
morrow," answered Captain Wynyard.          piece into the air. At the signal, sevel ne-
The boxes which were in the hold were now groes, dressed half in civilized garments, came
ordered to be hoisted out upon deck, and open- from some huts that stood in the rear of the
ed. The manacles and fetters, of new and barranca, and hastened with wild cries towards
shining steel, were then examined, pair by pair, the quay. Three white men also came out of
and laid aside in parcels of fifty each. There the gate, all heavily armed, each with a gun,
were among them some irons with a ring Ito lock and with pistols at their belts.

KATE WYNYARD.

83]


RATE WYNYARD.

84                 KATE WYNVARD.

for six weeks," answered the Englishman, " the
last one was an infernal Yankee brig."
" So much the more need of my hurrying off,
for it is time that some of them should return."
"We can give you a cargo to-night," an-
swered the Englishman, who seemed to be the
principal factor of the establishment, and was
chief spokesman.
, "fHow many ?"
"Yours is a new craft, captain," answered
the Englishman, scanning with his eye the prob-
able capacity of the vessel. "What is her
tonnage ?"
"One hundred and ten.*'
" That will stow three hundred and rorry. -
"#es. I think we could make it up to fifty.
She has a broad beam bulge amidships.".
"We can give you as many as you can pack.
We have nine hundred now in the barranca,
and some have been waiting six months for a
vessel. We are nearly starved out of provi-
sions, feeding so many; and if four or five
'didn't die off a day, we should have to shoot
some of them!"
"I have made calculations of my vessel's
capacity. I can take one hundred men, one
hundred women, and one hundred and fifty
children."
"Very well. Go in and make your selec-
tion."  As they were walking together, the
four men conversed together in Spanish upon-
the news from Europe, and other matters per-
sonal to, themselves. Particular inquiries were
put to the captain about Edward, which the
former answered by saying that he was a shore
friend of his, voyaging for his health, and to see
the world, having killed a man, which rendered
his absence from his native country for a time
necessary.
Edward noticed that the half-dressed negroes
whom he saw run from the huts to the landing,
stood off at a little distance, as if.waiting to obey
some 'orders' which they expected to receive.
Each'if them was armed with a terrible whip,
which they flourished and cracked'in the air in
great glee, uttering all the while the most sav-
agejells, 'accompanied by demoniac contor-tions

of their visages. They followed the party of
men quite to the, gate, on each side of which
they ranged themselves.
When Edward passed through the gate, and
found himself within the walls of the temporary
prison of the Africans that await transportation,
he stopped, overwhelmed with amazement, at
the extraordinary spectacle which there present-
ed itself to him.  Upwards of nine hundred
wild negroes, perfectly naked, their skins horri-
bly tattooed, were congregated in the enclosure,
in every imaginable posture. Some were lying
down alseep, some were sitting on their haunches,
rocking to and fro, and chaunting like witches,
some were wrestling, some were fighting, some
were running, some eating, and some sick and
dying-and two, a woman and her child, lay
dead and disregarded. The sounds that filled
this pound of human cattle, were indescribable.
At the entrance of the party, a gong was struck
by a white man, who, with some six or seven
others, formed a guard over them, and at the
sound there was a universal stillness. The
guards then shouted to the negroes to fall into
ranks ; and after about a quarter of an hour,
they surrounded the area, five deep, and stood
waiting in mortal fear. They well knew that
the hour had come to send them over the dread-
ful sea, and tear them from each other and their
country forever.-
The captain then walked around the circle,
and as he went, made his selection... The three
men followed him, one of them bringing a pot
of red paint, with which he numbered them on
the back, as they were picked out.  There was
no preference given to any natural ties--health
and sinews were alone 'regarded. Fathers and
children, brothers and sisters, wives and hus-
bands, were separated without mercy.
"0, mark me !" shrieked a girl of sixteen,
as her twin brother received the red sign of
bondage between his shoulders ; but she looked
sickly, and was passed by, notwithstanding her
imploring cries, which' were silenced by the
whip of one of ,the guards. It would be im-
possible to portray the scenes of wretchedness,
despair and woe that met Edward's appalled

a
.,
V
r
t
r
k
4
3
1
:
r
_

ears and eyes. The laments of kindred parted
from kindred, penetrated his very soul. He
would have pleaded for them, but felt that mer-
cy was a word unknown to those men of the
barranca. He regarded Captain Wat Wynyard
with amazement and horror, as he passed round
the circles his presence filled with so much
misery, perfectly unconcerned. At length,
after three hours given to the. task, he had se-
lected the three hundred and fifty, and number-
ed them. They were now pinioned, two and
two, driven out in a long file from. the enclosure,
led by the Englishman, who went in advance,
carrying a pistol in 'each hand, ready to shoot
the first one that broke from the line. Edward
now saw the office of the half-civilized blacks
with the whips. Their duty was to station
themselves along the line, ten feet distant from
each other, and quicken the steps of the lag-
gards with the bleeding strokes of the lash ; an
occupation which appeared to delight their sav-
age hearts.
When the last pair of little children that
brought up the rear, had left the gate, and it
was, again shut, there broke upon the air a cry
wrung from the mothers, and fathers, and
brothers,- and sisters, and wives, and hus.
bands, and sons, and daughters, from whom
those they most loved had been torn so ruth-
lessly.
" That cry went up to God !" said Edward
to himself, with indignant feeling. "0, how
can the sun shine so brightly on such a scene as
this -"
The cry, which was a mingled moan and
shriek fiom five hundred voices, was responded
to by a wail of total despair from the procession
of captives without. They sent up a unanimous
and heart-rending answering groan, that would
have, moved devils to pity theni.
But we draw a veil over the painful picture
of human wickedness, for the reality is daily
going on; and while I write, the voice of the
stolen sons of Afic, like the voice of murdered
Abel, is crying unto God, from the shores of
Africa, "0, God, how long!1 0, God, how
long!"

The embarkation was effected by means of
seven boats, paddled by the half-dressed blacks,
which belonged to the barranca, and whibh
were kept for this-purpose. It was dark when
the last pair was taken on board ; and as nine
of them were drowned-four of them by leapI
overboard, preferring death to slavery-there
were but three hundred and forty one placed'on
board. As they crossed the gangway, they
were conducted down into thehold, and led aft,
where they were made to sit down, for the
place was not more than four feet high. When
the hold was completely surrounded by one tier,
then another tier was placed in front, seated
partly between the feet of those behind. In
this way the adults were seated, and ocd ea
all the room; while the children, from twelve
years old to eight,-,for they took none younger,
--were stowed in the arms or upon the legs of
the rest. By this economical mode of stowage,
three hundred and forty human beings were
skilfully made to occupy a space that would
have been narrow accommodations for twenty-
five persons.
At length, the hold being full, and the necessw
ry forms of signing papers havingbeen gone
through, Captain Walter-.-whom Edward look;
en upon now with horror, recollecting all 1i '
first impressions about him-took leave of ht
co-partners in iniquity ; and, weighing anchor
he hoisted sail, and, as the late moon was rising
about eleven o'clock at night, he left the howl=
ing barranca astern, and rapidly descended tlfb
river Cyprian towards the 'sea. tAs they were
losing sight of the place] a loud noise reached
their ears, coming from  the south, across the"
desert. It sounded like the march of a ba-
barie army, with rude warlike instruments.
"Do you hear that ?" asked the captain.
" What can it mean '" demnded Edward.
with surprise.
" It is a new batch of the black cattle, coming
in from the interior. It is well I took off my
load to make room for them. I never knew the
barranca so full."
" What do you mean by a new batch 2"
" Of prisoners. You see the traders keep up


66                KATE WYNYARD.

the supply by means of wars between the tribes. a
They first manage to get them  at loggerheads, t
and then offer so much a head for the prisoners
they take. There are at least fifty tribes now iI
at constant war with each other, for nothing but
to take prisoners and sell them at the barranca. i
When they get a hundred or more, they march
them down and sell them to us. That is a lot y
now approaching; and ten to one, in six months,
another tribe will be bringing down the very t
same black rascals, as slaves, who are now f
bringing the gang that is coming. There they
go!  You see the long black line moving, a mile
off?"
"Yes, I see it !" answered Edward, who 1
nowelt that the African slave trade was more
monstrous than he bad believed. Gladly would!
Edward Blacklock have quitted the schooner at
the barranca, now that th'e real character of
Captain Wat Wynyard, and the nature of his
"seafaring " pursuits, were clearly revealed to
him.  But it would only have been changing
for the worse, to remain with the slave-factors;
and to wander away from it would be certain
destruction. The only thing he could do,
therefore, was to remain in the schooner unti
she reached some civilized port, and there leave
her and her unprincipled captain forever. In
the meanwhile, he felt the expediency of keep
ing perfectly quiet touching his own views of
the occupation by which the captain was enrich-
ing himself; for he felt no disposition to run
te risk of incurring the suspicion or dislike of
- man whom he now had ample evidence was
qne of the.most reckless men ever engaged in
this revoltingtrade.
At length, as the sun rose, the schooner gain.
ed the open sea, and.the captain laid her course
for Rio Janeiro.,
" Do you dispose of this cargo in that city ?"

asked Edward, with difficulty suffering himself
o converse with the reckless young man.
"Yes. That is a fine market. We run in
n open day, and dispose of them in the market.
Al we have to fear is from cruisers before we get
n.,,
"And suppose a cruiser should capture
you?2"
"I should lose my cargo and vessel, and be
aken to England or America, according to the
lag, and be tried for my life!"
"It is a dangerous trade."
"But a profitable one. This cargo cost the
factors at the barranca about fifteen dollars a
head. I shall get, in Rio, one hundred and
thirty all round. But we shall lose fifty on the
passage by death-that is the average. They
will be the weakest of the, lot that die, and
wouldn't be worth much to us if we got them to
Rio. That is the reason why we take fifty over
our actual easy stowage, so that we may kill off
the weaker ones, by the crowding and privation,
and have left only the sound ones. We consid-
er a negro that can pass through the voyage, as
healthy and strong, and of good service."
Edward made no reply.
The voyage lasted nineteen days. Every
morning, regularly, the hold was opened, and
Edward's ears were greeted by the harsh voice
of the lieutenant, crying out :  .
"Bring up the dead !"
These were passed out over the heads of. the
rest, and thrown into the sea to the waiting
sharks, which follow slavers in great numbers,
night and day, across the ocean. Every morn-
ing, from two to five were brought up dead, and
cast to these monsters. At length the blue
mountains the enclose Rio-Janeiro hove in sight,
and preparations were made to land that night,
for fear any crusier might be hovering off the port.

B

Serk6zet-.    he chase.  The clipper ashore.   Terrible revenge of the blacks.  Their gra-
itade for Edtoard's kindness.   The British   frigate.  her captain, Lord    Clfford, E-
ward's father.    Thy   isteji unravelPe.   Marriage of Edward and Isabel. Cncla-
'ion.

IIE  afternoon was drawing. to a close
.hen the slave trader run under the
shadow of the lofty sugar-loaf mount that tow-
ers cloudward near Rio. The vessels in port
were seen, ana Me tools and towers of the im-
perial city.
"We will lay by here till after dark,. and then
run in," said Captain Wat.    *9By midnight
we will have all our cargo landed, and then we
can anchor, if I please, right ender the guns of
an English seventy-four."
After dark, sail was made on the schooner,
and under the influence of a steady wind from
the south ann east, she ran into the harbor.
" Sail dead ahead !" called out the lookout
from the bows.
"Luff and give her a wider berth," com-
manded the captain, in a quick, startling tone.
The schooner drew close to the wind, but the
advancing vessel seemed to intend to meet her,
for it imitated her motions. As the stranger
drew nearer, the captain uttered a terrible oath,
and seizing the helm, put it hard down, and
calling out to cast off tack and sheet, laid his
vessel right before the wind, and began to run
for it ; for he had made her out with the night
lens in his spy-glass, to be a large frigate of at
least sixty guns.
"That fellow," said the lieutenant of the
Wateh on the quarter deck of the stranger--whichI

was a British frigate of the largest class bound
to lEgland-.-" seems to be taking a deuced deal
of trouble to get out of our way."
" Yes," answered the quarter-master, and I
will bet a month's pay he is a slaver trying to
run in under cover of the darkness.  He is as
rakish as a, buccanier."
Three or fou glasses were now levelled At
the schooner as she run across the fore-foot of
the frigate, about half a mile off, to get into
shoal water toleeward.
"She is running away," said the quarter-
master.
" Seton, ' said the lieutenant of the deck,
addressing a midshipman, "report to Lord
Clifford that a suspicious vessel is making sail
away from us."
The nobleman, who commanded the frigate
now came on deck, and having learned how she
had manouvred, he ordered a gun to be fired to
bring her to.
"We are caught in a net, B1lacklock," said
Wynyard, speaking through his clenched teeth',,
as the report of the gun rolled to leeward.  "I
will let them sink me before I heave to. If
can keep clear of their iron for twenty minutes,f
I shall get to the leeward of the island, where
they can't follow me,",
. Edward watched for, the next shot from the
frigate with deep interest. Rib own fate was

NMI
a


88                 KATE WYNYARD.

now at issue. He was likely either to be killed
by the cannon balls of the English, or, if taken
with the vessel, to be hanged as a slaver. In
the meanwhile Wynyard was using every means,
to increase the velocity of his vessel. First he
cast overboard two of the guns, he then cut
away the bulwarks, and rolled the other four
into the sea. A third shot from the frigate
whizzed close above his deck, and brought from
his exasperated spirit a volley of oaths.
" Turn up the black cattle ! Turn them up,
and overboard with them," he called to his
men.
"You are not in earnest ?" interposed the
horror-stricken Edward.
"In earnest'? Don't speak to me, sir ! I
am in earnest. My vessel musthe lightened, and
if she is at last taken, they shall not find an ac-
cursed black carcase from stem to stern to con-
demn me. Up with them and prick them over-
board with your pikes-lively, men, lively."
The negroes, always glad - to be called on
deck--which they were in twenties during the
days of the voyage, to breathe the air for an
hour at a.time-now hurried up at the order of
the major, who, if possible, was more of a fiend
than his captain.
As fast as they came up, they were at once
pressed to the vessel's side with the sharp pike.
heads, and with piercing shrieks, they plunged
into the water., Edward sprang forward to
their rescue, resolved to prevent this manoeuvre.
But scarcely had the first manacled pair of
wretches been driven overboard, in spite of his
interposition and risk of his own life, than with
a loud grinding shock, the schooner struck up-
on a shoal all standing, and broke her foremast
short off at the head. The schooner at the
same time keeled with a deep lift to starboard.
The Africans in the hold, apprehending instant
death, uttered the most appalling cries.  Cap.
tam Wynyard, finding that his vessel waslost,
now called for the boats to be lowered, while he
himself assisted at the davits, and threw in the
Oars.
In the meanwhile, the shrieks of the slaves
feaohing the ears of those on board the frig

ate, the true character of the chase was under-
stood.
"Fire no more guns ! She is ashore ! but
down with the boats, man them and board her,"
called out the Port Captain in command. "She
is a slaver ! Let every boat but one leave the
ship, and only six men with the cockswain in
each, for there must be room to take the slaves
on board, if the schooner is filling, as is likely."
In five minutes, seven boats were pulling
from the frigate, which came to, within a quar-
ter of a mile of the schooner, and as near as
her lead told her sailing-master she ought to
approach. The leading boat contained twenty
men, armed with pistols and cutlasses, to board
the slaver and do thb fighting in capturing her,
while the other boats were to take off the
slaves.
Captain Wat saw the fleet of boats advancing
before he had got his own boat afloat. As he
was about to jump in, many of the Africans
crowded over the side and leaped into it, till
was it filled and sunk. But the water was not
more than five feet deep alongside, and they
made their way to the bar, by swimming or wad-
ing. The whole scene was now one of the
fiercest confusion. The larger African men, in
their fury, seeing that all subordination was at
an end, and that their white tyrants were trying
to escape from a foe strnger than they, began to
inflict upon them the most horrible revenge.
Half-a-dozen of them would rush upon a sailor.
and swing him against the mast like mad furies,
till they dashed out his brains.  Others fell up-
on the men, and jumped upon them, tore their
throats, thrust their 'hands into their mouths,
and, wrenching back their Jaws, broke them, and
tore; their tongues out and devoured them.
They were turned to so many wild beasts, and
went to their horrid work of revenge, howling
and barking, acting like a pack of the most in-
furiated wolves. The sailors who could avoid
them leaped overboard, shrieking with horror
to avoid such a dreadful death as their compan-
ions had suffered. Wynya' became the chief
objgot of the, rage o( some :ofthein, who bad
driven him to the taffrail, and . were~ only ye"

vented from rushing on him to tear him in
pieces, by the influence of Edward, who cour-
ageously stood between him and the howling
pack. But they would not pass him. They
loved him. He had ever a kind look and a
smile for one and all, whenever, on the passage,
they were suffered to come on deck. He aid-
ed them in dressing their wounds; he was a
ministering angel among them; and for his
humanity Wynyard had only laughed at him,
and told him that they would sooner cut his
throat than .that of any man they feared' on
board. But Edward knew to (the contrary.
He believed that the poor Africans were human
beings; and that though ignorant, and oppress-
ed, and black, they knew what gratitude was.
He was now reaping the fruits of his benevo-
lent feelings and conduct towards them.
"We no hurtee you-we killee him!   We
drink him blood !" said the leader of the pack,
in broken English.
"You must not touch him; he is my friend,"
said Edward, who expected his manner and
gestures to be understood, rather than his words.
"Keep the devils off, Blacklock," cried
Wynyard, his voice trembling with horror.
'"Keep them off, if you can, till the boats reach
us. I would rather be hanged, than torn limb
from limb, as they have done most of our
wretched men."
"Leap into the water and swim to the bar,"
said Edward, "I fear I shall not be able to re-
strain them much longer."'
"The water is full of them swimming about,
and the bar is black with them. This is horri-
ble-my game is up, I see, at last."
While he was speaking, two of the strongest
and most herealean of the naked savagessud-
denly caught Edward in their arms, and, with-
out hurting him, bore him to the'rear among
their fellows. Edward at the same moment
heard the captain shriek and two pistols go off.
But he could not aid him, for he was held fm-
ly by his captors, w - e the others 'had sprung
forward to make      pain their prey. He
had discharged his pistols at them, and leaped'
into the sea.

"Pull lively, my lads," called out the lieu-
tenant in comiland of the frigate's leading boat,
as the noise of the confusion aboard grew loud-
er, and the shrieks of the men torn limb from
limb pierced the sky, " there is dreadful work
going on there. Give way all, hard and strong!t
Hard away !  Spring to your oars!"
The flash of two pistols revealed the deck of
of the schooner, crowded with the blacks, and
that they had'taken the vessel was clear. The
next moment the boat was within ten fathoms,
when Wynyard called from-the water to be tak-
en on board. He was dragged in, glad to pur-
chase life by capture, and the boat lay on her
oars off the schooner's quarter, and the lieuten-
ant hailed, for the noise of the negroes ceased'
at the sight of the boats.
" What schooner is that? Who commands
her?"
"She is a slaver," answered Edward, who
had been released by his savage but friendly
detainers.  "She has struck the bar, and the
slaves, of which there are about three hundred,
have risen and driven overboard or slain the
crew and captain. Your 'arrival is most 'wel
come."
"'that man doesn't talk much like a slaver,"
said a middy in the third cutter.
" Who are you-if your captain is over-
board ?"
"I am only a chance passenger."
" And have you influence over the negroes,
that you are not hartned '?"
" I believe so. 1 have been kind to them."
" Then tell them that we are friends, and
that we will send them back to their oWn coun-J
try."
Edward turned to make this information plain
to them by gestures and words, and he had' thk'
satisfaction of knowing that he was understood;'-
for they clapped their hands, they laughed, theta
shouted, they crowded about him, they kissed his
hands, his feet, liis garments. All this wde
witnessed by'the English with surprise and won--
der.                         -
During the remainder of the night, th fri-
ate's boats were engaged in removing the blabku

RATE WYNYARD.


KATE WYNYARD.                  91

from the wrecked- slaver.  As the day broke,
they completed their task of humanity ; and
then, after stripping t-he schooner of whatever
was of value, they set her on fire. But before
she was burned to the water's edge, the frigate
was under weigh, and standing ,argss the Atlan-
tic, with the three hundred rescued Africans.-
At the end of the eleventh day after leaving
Rio, the ship of-war came to, off the mouth of
the Cyprian river, and sent five armed boats up
to -the barranca, which they, surprised, taking
the three factors prisoners. The next day the
blacks were brought up from the frigate, and
the meeting between them and those whom the
English had liberated from the barranca, was a
touching exhibition of affection and delight.
The next day the British Admiral ordered
the barranga to be burned to the ground. The
Africans, eight hundred in number, were then
supplied with a week's provision from the ship's
stores, and sent back to the interior, each to his
own tribe and home.
This act of humanity accomplished, the frig-
ate once more spread her canvass to the tropical
winds, and laid her course northward. Being
short of provisions, she put into Gibralter. After
remaining here a few days, she set sail for Eng-
land, and arrived at Portsmouth on the, forty-
ninth day after her departure from Rio Jan-
eiro-
During this period of time on the ocean,
events the most interesting to Edward Black-
look took place. It will be remembered that
Captain Wynyard was saved from death by
drowning, by being picked up by the lead-
ing boat of the frigate. Edward was also taken
prisoner, but very handsomely treated by the
officer of the boat, who, on taking him on board
the frigate, made known the manner the ne-
groes had crowded about him in gratitude, and
he stated that mainly through his influence
over them, they were enabled to get them to
go into the boats, without violence.
." Who are you, sir, that, having so much
humanity, I find you on board a slaver ?" de-
manded Lord Clifford, as Edward was'placed
before him.

"I am an American, sir.  I have had reo
part is this slave-stealing. Unfortunate eircum-
stances, not inclination, find me in such com-
pany."
"We have only your word for it."
"There stands the captain, who will do me
the justice to confirm my words, as he can have
no motive in withholding the truth."
"You are then the captain of the schooner,"
said the nobleman, fixing his eyes upon Wyn-
yard, who stood before him, guarded by two
marines. " I did not know we had been so.
fortunate."
"I am her captain," answered Wynyard, in
a sullen tone of defiance.
"You must know, then; that the British gov-
ernment regards slave-stealing on the high seas
as a capital crime."
"I know that I am likely to be hanged.'
"And    this young'man.  Does he speak
truth ?"
" Yes. He did not know that I was a slaver
when we embarked at  Cadiz. I knew that he
had been unfortunate, and invited him to go
with me ; but until I reached the coast of Afri-
ca, he had no. idea of my pursuit."
"I am glad to hear this," answered the no-
bleman, who regarded Edward with looks of
interest.  "But I will examine into the matter
by and by. There are how many of, the crew.
of the schooner saved ?" he asked of the lieu-
tenant who had command of the boats.
"Five in all ! The others are at the gang-
way, under guard.' The rest were torn in
pieces, they say, by the infuriated revenge of
the blacks, when they broke fromFthe hold."
"Bring the men aft."
When they were placed befcrt.:im, Lord
Clifford pointed to Edward, and said'
" What rank did this person Rhold in your
vessel?  Was he not a lieutenant'?"
"No,'" answered one of the men, bluntly,
"l e was only a passenger."
" More like a preacher,  way he acted to-
wards the darkies," s '      second. "He.
treated:'em ,as if they h  btblood in 'em."
" That person is Mr l~clook, eto      a

A''

S

J0                      KA.TRWYNYAR]D:

f
t
k
4
1
a ;
F
:i
i
t;
.
R
3
i
(
S
1t
3

at'-Cadiz as a passenger ; but he had nothing
to do with the slave business. He interposed
to-night, at the risk of his life, to prevent the,
order of the captain to throw all the negroes
overboard, when you were chasing us, from be-
ing'executed. I'll say that much for him, for,
though I may- have my own neck stretched, I
don't want to see an innocent man hanged."
" This is favorable to you, Mr. Blacklock,"
said the nobleman, "now if you will come in-
to my cabin, I wish to have a little more par-
ticular conversation with you, upon the peculiar
position in which I find you placed. I wish to
either treat you as an honest man, or put you
in irons as a slaver with the rest. Come with
me, and let me hear your own account of your-
self. Put the rest," he added to an officer,
"under guard, and iron them to the deck."
While Wynyard and the three seamen were
taken away in chains, the former sullen and si-
lent, and' the latter apparently indifferent to
their fate, Edward followed the nobleman who
commanded the frigate to his state-cabin. He
then bade him be seated, and dismissing his at-
tendants to the ante-room, said with looks of
kindly interest, as he gazed fixedly upon his
face:
"You say you are an' American."

I

i

expression in them, as if he were trying to re-
.cover a resemblance; while at certain sounds of
his voice, his face flushed up with a broken re-
collection of some half forgotten tones.
At the expiration of an hour, or a little more,.
Edward brought the history of his life down to'
that time. He was interrupted more than once
in his long and faithful narrative-in which he
concealed nothing that is already known to out
readers-by exclamations of surprise, of inter-
est, of sympathy.
When he had ended, Lord Clifford, pale as
marble, said in a tremulous voice: "You have
spoken of a name on the chest. Do you recol-
lect it ?"
" It was CLIFFORD 'ST. CLAIR !" answered
Edward, with surprise at the noble lord's deep
emotion; and all the while trying to remember
where he had seen, whether in dreanis or waking,
his form and face, and heard the tones of his
voice.
"Mr. Blacklock," said Lord Clifford, in the'
greatest agitation, "will you take off your coat
and let me see your left arm, near the shoulder.'
"May I ask your lordship what-"
"I beg of you, do not question me--but
oblige me at once."
Edward obeyed, and bared his arm, upon
which, half way between the shoulder and el=
bow, Lord Clifford discovered a device in India"
ink.
"How long have you had that mark ?" he
asked with nervous' emotion almost beyond con
trol.
Ever.since I can remember anything."
"My son-my son ! Heaven has at length
restored to me my son !" he cried aloud, and,
clasping Edward to his heart, he wept on hii"
shoulder.' Who can describe the joyful emVo.
tions of Edward, as he found himself locked
in the arms of his father-for' his heart had ir'
stinctively yearned towards him from the first'
moment he gazed on his face and heard his
voice.
After a while, when Lord Clifford had beeomo
composed, he called together theofficers into his
cablin, and presenting to them Eldward as hia

"Yes, my lord," answered Edward, with
manly candor, looking him full in the face.
"And your name is Blacklock -"
"Yes-at least-yes, it is, I believe, my
lord."
"You hesitate ! This does not look well,
est? If I find you are not fair with me,, I shall
let you go with the rest, and let the law, not I;
decide your fate." The nobleman's majestic
'and benevolent countenance was slightly flash-
sd with -anger as he spoke.
"My lord," said Edward, "I do not intend
to resort to double-dealing with you. If you
will listen to my story, it will explain to you
why I hesitated ; and I ought to tell it to you
also, in order to show you how it chanced that
I was on board the sver."
" I will listen to you," answered Lord Olif-
ford, whose eyes rested on his features with' an


KATE WYNYARD.                93

sBn-long lost put at last;found--related to them 1
his history and how he had identified him; and
then added the following explanation, though in1
more extended particulars than we have space to
give it, of the manner in which he had lost him
in his infancy.
"We were passing a few weeks after a long
cruise-being a lieutenant only-at my castle in
the northern part of Europe. I had been mar-
ried four years to Lady Mary, Countess of Bel-
brook. We had one child, a son. I had taken
to my castle with me, which borders the sea, a
seaman who was much attached to me, and de-
lighted to be in my service.  It is Ben Brown-
all there," said the nobleman, pointing to an
old tar whom he had ordered to be sent for from
the deck, and who now stood a little in the rear
with his tarpaulin off." One day Ben had the
child out on the cliff playing with it ; and we
trusted it to him, as he was fond of it, and care-
ful, and it pleased him to have charge of it some-
times.  On the day in question he had been ab-
sent longer than usual, and when he returned
the boy to the nurse, she noticed that it winced'
when its arm was touched. {Upon examination
by the Countess it was discovered to her horror,
that the seaman had pricked in India ink the in-
itials of his name, Clifford St. Clair Clifford,
entwining them with a wreath and surmounting
the whole device with the British Flag.  But
what then gave us so much displeasure, and ban-
ished Ben forever from the castle, has enabled
me without a doubt to identify my lost son., Ed.
ward, my son, show your arm to Ben. Did you
do that?"
"I did, your honor-that is my tattooing.. I
would know it any where. But I did'nt do it
og this gentleman.  That is what I did on my
poor little young lord, twenty years ago. This
must be him, for I never did such a work on any
other arm. It sickened me ever after that.
A1d he looks like him, too, my lord i" added
Ben, with looks of joy.
"And it is my son, Ben ; I have found him.
Shake him by the hand, and welcome him back
after all his wanderings.
" Now, gentlemen, I wish you to learn how

I lost him. There had been a poacher on my
estate who was a vicious man; and not only
took my game, but committed other robberies.
I had him arrested, and after serving a year's
imprisonment he escaped. About the same time
my son was taken from the nurse when she was
walking with him on the beach, by twof..men
who came from the castle, bearing to a boat a
chest, loaded, as was afterwards understood, with
plate which they had boldly taken in open day
while the Countess and most of the servants
were at church   One of the men, whom the,
nurse recognized as the poacher, caught the child
from her, saying :
"With this boy I shall complete my revenge,
on my lord !"
Notwithstanding her shrieks, they bore off the,
chest and boy in the boat, and went down the.
coast. That was the last ever heard br seen of
my lost son until this morning, when I have so
strangely discovered him. Every' means were
used to trace him; and two years afterwards it
was told me by a Yorkshire man that he had
received a letter from a kinsman in America,
who said that the poacher, had been hanged
there for a murder. Advertisements were then
inserted in the American papers, but without.,
throwing any light upon the mystery. It is
probable, that finding the child a troublesome
burden he at length got rid of it by placing it.
in the chest and sending it down the river,.to
share whatever fate Providence, might guide it
to."
Our story now   approaches its conclusion.
The reader will already have foreseen that upon
Edward's arrival in Europe he was recognized-by
the Countess, his mother, and embraced as her
son. He was received to all the privileges and
honors of the high rank to which his birth enti-,
tied him ; and not the least part of Lord Clif-
ford's gratitude was that his son was educated
and fitted byperson and refinement for the ele-
vated position which had now become his. ,Old
Ben, instead of being in disgrace was invited to,
the castle and commissioned for life to take care
of the yacht and pleasure boats; and in his
leisure hours he printed with India ink uponi the

KATE W-YNYARD.

s
h
y}
P
1
F
4
t
J
.3
.j
_L
.y
dC
t
f
3

arms of the children of the tenants, all the out- was now kept by the widow of David Blacklock,
landish devices imaginable.. and read it to her. The widow then, with tears
Isabel Lawrence, in the meanwhile, having of joy, made known to Isabel the -past history of
wept her brothers' death, and never suspecting her lover..
Edward's agency in it, had wondered at his very  " Then we are seperated forever," she said,
sudden flight, which Kate, who gave her his sadly.
farewell message, could only explain by saying  "Nay, noble or simple, he loves you and has
he had gone with her brother to seek his fortune. a true heart," answered the dame.
She then believed that he had departed only in  While she was talking, the market man placed
pursuance of his intentions last made known to a letter in her hand.
her ; but she was pained that he should have  " It is indeed Edward's hand! " she ex-
left without again bidding her adieu. After her claimed.
brother had been dead four or five months, she  It was read with tears of delight. In it he
became so solicitous to learn where Edward was, wrote that he had been identified. and acknowl-
that she often called on Kate to inquire; and be- edged by his father, and that he was the son of.
tween the two maidens there grew quite an'inti- Lord and Lady Clifford. He then told all the
macy; and when, six months after Edward's de. circumstances at length, of his being taken off,
parture, Kate was married to the true, loving and how, probably, he had been afterwards cast
Paul Lovewell, Isabel made her a present of a upon the waters by his abductors. But more
set of pearl jewels. Paul began to build a than all, the letter contained one to Isabel, which
large house on his farm, and to this day he is he requested his " mother," as he still called the
one of the most wealthy agriculturists near Bos- dame, to hand to her. Isabel hastened home to
ton, and his wife, though twenty or more years read it alone. It recapitulated all he had writ-
older, is still the handsomest married dame in, ten to dame Blacklock, and breathed his undying
all the country around. The widow was not love ; but at the close of these expressions of
long since gathered to her fathers, dying with a his imperishable affection, he proceeded to un-
prayer that she might meet in Heaven the son fold to her (as if presuming she knew that her
who for eighteen years she had not heard of. brother had come to his death by his hand, not
But he had been executed at the yard arm at knowing of Tunstall's arrest and trial therefor),
Portsmouth, after his trial under a feigned the circumstances under which he had slain Man-
name ; and long forgotten by all but a mother's fred. It would be impossible to describe the
heart and a sister's love, -                horror and mingled emotions which this strange
Isabel, in the meanwhile, never suspecting revelation produced on her mind.
that Edward had slain her brother-for Tun-    The same hour, while she was irresolute how
stall had been tried in Boston and sentenced to to feel towards him, she was sent for to go to
the State Prison for life, unable to prove his Ket, who had been shot in a broil, and was dy-
innocence-lived in hope that he would soon ing. He then confessed to her how that he and
write to her. At length, one year after her Manfred had attacked Edward with the inten-
brothers' death, she saw a notice in a city paper, tion of killing him, and that he had slain her
copied from an English journal, that a young brother solely in self defence.  Soon after this
American, named Edward Blacklock, had been conference Ket expired.
.identified as the son of Lord and the Countess Shame and grief for her brother's 'rime in
Clifford .of the Castle St. Clair, Northumber- seeking Edward's life, now took the place of her
land, and taken his true position in society.  horror at what the latter had been compelled to
" Oh, can this-can this be Edward ?" was do. Gradually she began to view the matter in
her exclamation.  She at once ordered the car- an impartial light, and acquitted Edward in her
iage, and drove with all speed to the inn, which heart of all crime. But before writing to him,


94                 KATE WYNYARD.

saying that she forgave him, which he asked her
to do if she felt she could, she had a, duty to
perform for Tunstall; and she had taken the
bell rope in her hand to order the carriage to go
and see the governor, and lay all the facts be-
fore him, and solicit Tunstall's pardon, when she
was told by a servant who had just heard it, that
Tunstall had committed suicide the day before,
in his cell, by hanging himself to the grating of
the window.
Our story is now ended, when we have added,
that, the following year, the paragraph below ap-
peared in the American papers:
"There have been four or five instances of
the marriage of English noblemen with our
Anerican belles ; and we have now to record a
recent instance of a similar character. Last
week at "Grasmere Hall," near Brookline,
Lord Clifford M. Clair Clifford, about whose

life we learn there is something of romance, led
to the altar Isabel Lawrence, heiress and only
daughter of the late General Lawrence. Lady
Clifford, we are sure, will grace by her beauty
and accomplishments, the elevated position to
which she is called, and honorably represent at
the British Court the graces and intellect of
American women."
Dame Blacklock was at the wedding, and
Paul Lovewell and the fair Kate, all of whom
rejoiced in the happiness and high honors of the
noble pair.
If we appended morals to our stories, instead
of leaving them to elucidate their own, we
should here say, that honor, and virtue, and
truth will certainly be rewarded in this life, and
vice and evil-doing certainly have its measure
meted out to it.

THE END.

0, there is mystery all around!
It hovers in the air ;
It trembles in the waves of light,
A moving everywhere.
It hangeth on the wings of eve,
In snowy curtains dressed;
And sleepeth meekly when the eye
Is closed in happy rest.
0, there is mystery all around !
It hovers in the storm;
It girts the cloud when balancing
And changing of its form.
It flieth with his shadow.vast,
Quick sweeping o'er the plain,
It sparkles in the stars of dew,
And globes itself in vain.
0, there is mystery all around !
It hovers in the sea;
Behold how deep the vast profound !
Alike eternity !
It lingers on the mountains wild
Alone ! alone! alone !
We meet it in the solitudes,
And in the wind's low moan.
-0, there is mystery all around!i
In the floral bloom of life ;
Fresh, bursting to the air and light
In quiet, fragrant strife.
All woven in the vernal forms,
It breathes upon the flower;
Slow murmurs in the autumn wind,
Low whispers in the bower.
0, there is mystery deep within !
The beating of the heart;
The essence of a single thought,
Its substance, or its art.
It hovers in the deeps of love,
So shadowy and bright;

And darklings.on the brows of hate
Portends the stormful night.
'Tis in the blush of woman's face,
The glowing of her eye;
It cometh in the perfect grace,
As twilight in the sky.
0, there is mystery far away!
Creation, and its dawn ;
Old Egypt and her mysteries,
Her Nile, her Memnon-song.
Our genesis is mystery;
For, what decrees the sex ?
How is this temple garnished?
And what the skill that decks ?
0, there is mystery far before !
Who can tell to-morrow?
Who can divine his heights of bliss'
Who his depths of sorrow?
It hovers on the wings of death-
Nor ceases when we die ;
But, rising on the endless life,
Cloudeth every eye.
0, there is mystery in all!
In particles and worlds ;
It glorifies the universe,
And time in his whirls.
We know not ! then comes space for hope,
Then beauty filleth all;
Then nature and the ages dance
As fairies in their hall.
At times, I think me of the soul,
Its aimings and its love ;
Its longings of the undefined,
Its lower and above.
I would arrest its shadows all,
And dive into its deeps;
But vision ends in mystery !
She Nature's counsel keeps.

[FROM THE FLAG OF OUR UNION.)
BY E. G. IOLLAND.


There is a small town, a few miles distant
from Edinburgh, in which were located (a few
years ago), the head quarters of an English
regiment-who occupied the time-worn old bar-
racks, for a while, during the fall, to recruit,
after a service in the metropolis and provinces.
The detachment was commanded by a dashing
young captain, and his first lieutenant was a
brave and equally showy officer. Time neces-
sarily hung heavy upon their hands-for the
duties of the day were the same, week in and
week out; and divers were the plans adopted
to while away the hours which were unoccupied
with the observance of their military duties.
Amongst the acquaintances they made during
their stay at Elson, was that of the family of a
very wealthy wool-grower, residing upon a fine
Scotch estate, some four miles from the bar-
racks, and whither the captain and the lieuten-
ant were continually drawn, by the bewitching
manners and graceful persons of old bIcDon-
ough's two daughters.                 .-
"Look weel to yersel's, young lassies," the
old gentleman .would say to hisdaughters,'

"look weel to yersel's.  There's many a care-
less heart beneath a bonnie waistcoat."
To the young officers he would add: "Have
a care, yoong gentlemen ; the bairns are win-
some, an' I wad na hae you steal their gude
dispositions-for I dinna like the soldier's
life, for them. So have a care, I say."
The officers smiled, the girls laughed aloud,
at the old gentleman's fears, and time went on.
Winter had worn away, and the visits of the
captain and his lieutenant had got to be more
frequent than ever. A large party was given
at McDonough's mansion, and everybody of
note, within a dozen miles, was in attendance.
Among the visitors, was a maiden lady of five
and thirty-at least-who was excessively for-
bidding in her personal appearance, and whom
the rollicking daughters of McDonough forced
upon the attention of the handsome captain.
She was accompanied by a maiden aunt, too
-quite as plain and ungainly as herself. This
latter personage was commended to the particu-
lar attention of the gallant lieutenant !  The
girls enjoyed the sport excedingly, and for a

THE DOUBLE MARRIAGE.           97

[FRoM THE FLAG OF OUR UNION.]
AND   ITS RESULTS.
MY FIRIER HUN TE.

e
7
F
Z
6{
+.
h
4
N
'S
1
i
;a
1 J
i
4
7
C1
W
v
i
ry
+
s
.j
i
'i:

time the hall rung with their laughter and jest,
at the expense of their two young military
friends-whom they both were sadly in love
with, by the way-but upon whom they thought
to play a practical joke, knowing that the caps
tain and his junior friend pretended to be punc-
tiliously fastidious in matters appertaining to
female grace and loveliness.
If Captain Alworth got uneasy, the witching,
rollicking Msg was at his elbow to urge him
forward, and to descant upon the duty of milita-
ry men to be civil to all the representatives of
the gentler sex under all circumstances. Then
she would dart away, and coquette with some
fancied rival of the captain's-while her sister,
as active, and playful, and thoughtless as herself,
would be after young Lieutenant Boggs, with
an admonition to seeto his good old "aunty,"
with whom he had evidently became so sudden-
ly, but so severely smitten.
Thus matters went on for three hours-when
the captain got released from "escort duty,"
for a moment, and hailing his friend, the twain
retired to a recess at the other end of the hall.
"What do you think of this, leff?" he ask-
ed, good-naturedly.
"It is very provoking, upon my honor. Effie
has not honored me with her hand once to-night."
"And Mag has dodged me," said the cap-
tain, " in the same way. Not once have I
danced with her."
"It is altogether too bad."
" Isay so, leff, decidedly."
"What is to be done ?"
"The little minxes enjoy this, amazingly."
"So I see.  It's a made-up thing."
" Let's retire."
"No; that wouldn't do ; no retreating-in
this skirmish."
"Well, what do you propose ?"
"Let's punish them."
"Agreed-but how ?"
"4Continue the flirtation, in earnest,  That
is, make love to the old girls-let them over-.
hear it, and frighten them into better behaviour
for the future."
Capital! Isee--

" Go on then. Post yourself, and let's be
about it."
The noisy, happy, frolicksome girls had no
idea of this sort of retaliation ; and when mid'
night came, supper was announced. Their sur-
prise may be imagined, when they searched
among the crowd for their acknowledged lovers,
to observe that the two splendid military officers,
whom every one had so much admired during
the evening, were slowly sauntering down the
great hall, each with one of the "old maids "
upon his arm, deeply engaged in converse !
At supper, the captain and the 'lieutenant
were most assiduous in their attention to their
new-made female friends-and, though it cost
them a severe effort, they devoted themselves
entirely to "aunty" and her friend, to the ut-
ter neglect of the two Scotch beauties, whom
they still loved, but whom they resolved to be
even with.
Mag and Effie were uneasy. They looked
for the captain and lieutenant, after the repast,
and found them still busily engaged with aunty
and her companion. They had ceased to laugh,
and already put themselves in the way of the
usually gallant officers, who replied with a pod,
or a plain "yes" and "no," to.what they p.i.
pounded--turning quickly from them towhat.
peared to be "metal more attractive !" The
Scotch beauties made themselves utterly miser'
able, at last-for it was so contrived that the
two soldiers made them overhear their offers of
marriage, to aunty and her friend.
Old McDonough's daughters became desper
ate, The captain and the lieutenant were the
two handsomest men in the province. They
had each proposed himself to the sisters, and
each had been secretly accepted. They were
traitors--ingrates-w-deserters-everything  that
was ugly, hideous and dishonorable.  What
was to be done ?
The two maiden ladies had never had an of-
fer of marriage before ; and though each one
declared, (and honestly, too 1) that' "it was
very sudden, and onexpected," and that they
had " had no idee that the gentleman was so
aerous in his attentions"-yet they accepted


THE DOUBLE MA1IAGE,             99

THE DOUBLE MARRIAGE.

the proposal! By the laws of Scotland, the "men of honor," and from the hour they wed
two military gentlemen were now in a pretty dod, the daughters of McDonough had never
fix.  One of the two things they must do-to been seen, or conferred with, by either the caps
wit : marry the maiden ladies or be cashiered. tain or his friend. In the meantime, the young
And they knew it, too. But they did not sup- lassies had avoided all publicity-for they were
pose that " aunty " and her friend would really sadly disappointed in the event which took place
hold them to their bargain.  The maiden ladies --and they knew little or nothing of the fate
who had lived so long in single blessedness, of their lovers.
however, had no idea of suffering this " golden  After visiting Paris a month, the officers
opportunity" to pass; 'and so they claimed passed up the Rhine, and descending again,
each--the captain and the lieutenant-as their halted at Marseilles, for a time.  From thence
"liege lords."                             they proceeded to Geneva, and thence to Na,
Since there was no help for it but dishonor, pies-but the glitter of fashion, the novelty of
and removal from the service-they submitted the journey, the fair skies they met, and the
to their fate ; and one month afterwards, the glorious scenery that passed before them, en
two soldiers entered upon the joys of the mar- route, had but indifferent charms for such men
ried state. The beautiful Scotch girls laughed -laboring as each was under a woful oppres-
no more--they were the victims of their own sion at the heart.  And so they commenced a.
jealousy and recklessness-and they withdrew homeward journey, once more-but little grati-
at once from society, mortified, disappointed, fled with their jaunt.
and almost heart-broken-but not quite.        Arriving at Geneva, they took lodgings at a
Before a year had expired, the lieutenant's small hotel, for the night, calculating to pro-
wife died, leaving him a widower, though not ceed forward in the vetturino on the following
an over disconsolate one; for he had found the day. The town was filled with travellers, and
match most uncongenial and unfortunate. The the accommodations were none of the best ; but
captain maintained his " aunty " in a respec- they booked themselves for the first chance up,
table manner, but his military duties called him in the morning, reckless of personal comfort,
from home, and he saw very little of his wife. so that they were moving on.
Three or four months subsequent to the death The captain was sitting in a listless mood in
of the lieutenant's consort, he came into posses- his small parlor, when the lieutenant suddenly
sien of about three thousand pounds sterling- dashed into the room, and closing the door,
the amount of his late wife's estate, in her in- mysteriously exclaimed :-
dividual right-and one evening he proposed to  "I have sought you for an hour-"
the captain an application for a six months' fur- " Where ?" asked the captain.
lough, which was soon obtained, and the two  "Here, there-everywhere," responded his
friends departed from London-where they had friend, " you said you should walk in the grove.
latterly resided-upon a tour over the continent. yonder; and I did not think to find you here."
As may well be supposed, the names of Nag   "Well, what has happened, pray ?"
andEffie had very often been repeated, conti- " Have you seen them ?"
dentially between the soldier-lovers, and the  "Who?"
fortunes and the probable future of the two   " The Scotchman's daughters."
Scotch belles had frequently been discussed,  "No! where-what do you mean '
since the evening when the unlucky flirtation  "They are here, by Jove !"
terminated so inauspiciously.  But they were  " Where ?"

,.A

3
i
1
t
9

" In this house.  Under this very roof! I
have seen them, spoke with them, and-and---"
"Hold, leff. Allow me to think a moment."
"No time must be lost-"
"What is to be done, then?"
"Listen. The opportunity presents itself,
unbidden, unhoped for-the opportunity of my
life, The ladies are accompanied by their nom-
inal guardian, (forthe father isdead, youknow),
and they are still single, and at liberty."
A sigh escaped the lips of the captain, but
his friend proceeded.
"Captain, believe me, when I assure you
that the sisters are handsomer than ever. They
still retain that joyous disposition and sunny
cheerfulness which we loved in "auld lang
syne," and they harbor no ill temper towards
us. They are as beautiful, as bright, as glori-
ous as ever-though I think there is a shade of
sobriety in Mag, that I have never before wit-
nessed- --and which exhibited itself peculiarly
when, in answer to her query, I said that when
we left England, your " aunty " was well.
 -"Don't torture me, leff, don't!  What do
you propose to do ?"
"'I he old fellow who is with them, is very
careful of them-when he is sober."
"Well.'.'
" And he suffers nobody to approach them,
at home or abroad, I understand, with marriage
intent-for as soon as they wed, they, are no
longer under his control."
"Well, well-what of that?"
"What of that, man ! Upon my word you
are not so keen-scented as you once were, cap-
ain. What of- that?  Why, to be brief, this
of it.  I propose to pounce on the old fellow,
where he now lounges, since dinner-half asleep-
and half muddled with the generous Burgundy
he has quaffed-bind him hand and foot, and
run off with the girls ! That's all !"
"A valiant man, are you, leff-very," re-
sponded the captain, still in deep thought.

" Come then-wake up ! What say you ?--
Shall I have your aid, or shall I go alone 2"
" What is to be done with Mag ?" asked the
captain, feelingly. "You propose to marry
Effie, I take it. But you don't want both of
the girls, surely."'
Will you join me? I tell you again, there
is no time to be lost."
"Away with you, then, leftenant. Order
post horses. My purse and my hand are yours,
and my sword and life are at your service I"
" GoodI We will trust to fortune, and be
governed by circumstances. Mag will be re-
joiced to meet you, at any rate. Alions."
There was a lively bustle in front of the lit-
tle old inn, a few minutes afterwards, and a ve"
bide was soon ready, with four spanking road-
sters before it. There was no occasion for the
" binding band and foot," as the lieutenant
proposed, for the young ladies' guardian had
sogged away, after his cups-and was fast asleep
in his chair, when the lovers hastily entered the
apartment.
A joyful, but silent interchange of recogni-
tion took place-the girls smiled at the sudden
offer of the lieutenant--everything was quickly
put in readiness-and our four friends sprang
into the coach, as the captain and his companion
promised the sisters, on the honor of lovers and
soldiers, that all should be immediately and
satisfactorily explained. Away went the vehi-
cle, with its precious load, and long before the
old gentleman recovered his senses, the lovers
were far beyond pursuit.
In due time. the runaways reached the French
capitol. The money of the lieutenant held out
amazingly; there was still enough of it left,
to -keep up respectable appearances, for a time.
The captain found a letter a Paris-the first
he had received since his departure from Lon-
don. It was superscribed in a strange hand,
and bore a mourning seal. le opened it, and
learned that his wife had been dead over three
months--having fallen from her horse while rid-


THE* DOUBLE MARRIAGE.

ing out, and received injuries which termina-
ted fatally, a few hours after the accident.
He was almost frantic with excitement, at
this intelligence ; and the lieutenant' bore him
away to his room, in the midst of the paroxysm
which succeeded the perusal of the letter. He
'oon cooled off, however, and two days after-
ward he attended a wedding at St. Stephen's.
It' was .the union of the lieutenant and the
charming Effie McDonough.
The party proceeded forthwith to London,
after the last mentioned performance, and the
day succeeding their retreat, the old guardian
arrived at Paris, in search of the fugitives, whom
he had finally traced thither. But the birds
had flown.

A fortnight after reaching London, Mag Mc-
Donough became the wife of the generous-heart-
ed captain.  Old scores were obliterated-the
parties were severally happy, in redeeming
themselves, and in enjoying their " first loves "
-and mutual promises had been earnestly en-
tered into, to forgive and forget the jealousies
of the past.
The lazy guardian finally found his precious
wards, but his authority over them and their for-
tunes, (which, by the way, were very handsome),
had long since ceased. They were united to
the men of their own first choice, and years of
happiness and prosperity succeeded the Dou-
mBLm MARRIAe.

a
t
F.
a
bx
:.,
',
-       .
_                         w

it e                                :
.
L-,

THE END.

E
t
w
T
Z
"  _
i

I

100


  
             
         
       
   
