
    ----CITATION----
        Richards, Maria T. (1821-). The Year of Jubilee, or, Familiar Phases of Hebrew Life .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7573
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Year of Jubilee, or, Familiar phases of Hebrew life 
            
                 THE YEAR OF JUBILEE.     "A maiden with' disheveled hair rushed into the Court andi th'ew here at the feet of Hezron"   THE YEAR OF JUBILEE; FAMLIAR PHASES OF HEBREW LIFE. BY MARIA T. RICHARDS, AUTHOR OF "IFE IN ISRAEL," "IFE IN JUDEA," ETO. NEW YORK: SHELDON, BLAKEMAN & COMPANY.   ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1858, by SHELDON, TlTACTMAN & COMPANY, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the U. S. for the Southern District of New York. W. H. TINSON, Stereotyner.    PUDNEY& RUsLL, Priters.   CONTENTS. CHAPTER . *PAG THE CONQUEST, . .   .  .. . .  .        7 CHAPTER II THE HARVEST TIME, . .    . .          81) CHAPTER III. THE VISIT TO THE POOR AND NEEDY, . .       48 CHAPTER IV. THE VISIT TO THE TABERNACLE, . . .       67 CHAPTER V. THE FULFILLED DREAM, . .          .   80 CHAPTER VI. THE BETROTHAL BROKEN; . .  .  . .      101 CHAPTER VII. DAYS OF GLADNESS, . . .   . .  . .  .  . 119 CHAPTER VIII. JOYFUL TIDINGS, . . .          .   180 t          "         -    .    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. Hark, the silvery trumpets blow, O'er the land their echoes go; Freedom's breath in every blast, All the bond are free at last! Every debt is blotted out; Slave and prisoner swell the'shout- From the Jordan to the sea,-' Welcome Year of Jubilee!"' CHAPTER I. THE  CONQUEST. WITHN the beautiful domains of the tribe of Zebulon, at a little distance to the east of Mount Tabor, stood a large square dwelling, built broad and firm upon its massive founda- tion of rock.  "Within the central quadran- gular court an Israelite was slowly pacing to and fro, whose clasped hands, bowed head, and knitted brow, betokened earnest thought. His garments girt closely about his form, and   8   -  THE YEAR OF J UJlLEE. sandals bound upon his feet, showed him equipped for a journey, while the brazen hel- met that enclasped his brow, and massive breastplate that gleamed beneath his flowing beard, told that it was no errand of peace that formed his mission. He was a man in the prime of life. The various appointments of the dwelling he was about to leave, revealed ease and affluence, while his every look and motion, as his heavy tread made the stone- paved court ring to the clang of his steel- bound sandals, told that it was his province to command rather than to obey. It was Hez- ron, the prince of the tribe of Zebulon. Suddenly the door was opened which led from the porch of entrance to the court, and a veiled female stood in the presence of Hezron Roused from his reverie, he impatiently turned as if to learn the cause of the intrusion; but as the stranger lifted her veil, and Hezron recognized his guest, his whole aspect became instantly softened. Approaching to salute her, his manner expressed esteem for exalted   THE CONQUEST.      9 virtues, veneration for superior station, and the respectful courtesy ever due to woman. The general appearance of the stranger was well fitted to. excite these emotions. Her dress was simple, even to rudeness, yet the jewelled crown and purple robes of royalty could not have enhanced the queenly majesty of her bearing. There was cast about her an air of sanctity, which, whilst it might awe, would also attract the beholder: so beautifully was it tempered by an expression of benevo- lent earnestness. Her whole soul seemed travailing in the greatness of its purpose, and the enthusiasm whic lighted her counte- nance, invested her with a strange wild gran- deur, as she gave her directions with the con- scious dignity of her right and her ability to govern. It was Deborah, the prophetess and chief magistrate of the Hebrews. "Why tarriest thou within thine house, Prince of Zebulon?" said she. "Knowest thou not, that Barak already cometh from Kedesh with five thousand of the tribe of Naphtali at   10     THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. his feet, and that the gathering thousands of Zebulon wait but for thee to lead them upon Mount Tabor? Even now from the top of the mount can be discerned the hosts of Sisera, sweeping along the banks of the Kishon.   He cometh in the might of his strength.  Before him roll nine hundred chariots of iron, and behind him treadeth a multitude.   Up, there- fore, for this day the Lord shall deliver him into our hand." * Wilt thou go up with Barak upon Mount Tabor, as he asked of thee," inquired Hezron, as for a moment even his strong heart quailed at the immense disproportion between the hosts of Sisera and the handfuls of Israel with- out sword or spear. "I will surely go up with him," answered Deborah, ' notwithstanding the journey that he taketh shall not be for his honor, for the * The case of Deborah forms a slight deviation from the author's general rule, that scripture characters should be used only in strict accordance with what is revealed con- cerning them. f     THE CONQUEST&     " Lord Thall sell Sisera into the hand of a woman." "Stay, stay, my father," echoed a voice of passionate grief, as Hezron turned to depart. There was a glance of fluttering garments along the gallery above, then the hurried fall of flying footsteps over the stairs and through the corridor, and a maiden with swollen cheeks and dishevelled hair rushed into the court, and threw herself at the feet of Hezron. "Nay, leave me not, my father," she ex- claimed in a voice of heart-touching sorrow, "hath not my mother already gone to the grave; what shall my life be unto me when thou art slain in' the high places of battle 2" (DidI not bid thee to come unto me no morel" said Hezron, in as authoritative a voice as he could command. "Have I not already blessed thee, Judith; what more wouldst thou have at my hands?" "Live, only live, my father, and my soul shall bless thee. Go not forth to this dread warfare; stay, and thy daughter "--   12    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. "Maiden, thou knowest not what thou sayest," interrupted Hezron, in a tone which instantly hushed the pleading voice of Judith. ' Art thou a Hebrew, the daughter of princes, and wouldst thou restrain thy father that he go not forth to the avenging of Israel?" With a tenderness strangely contrasting with his assumed sternness of manner, Hezron lifted his weeping daughter to her feet, and hurried- ly kissed and blessed her. Then hastening away with the prophetess, he was soon issuing his commands to the sons of Zebulon who had assembled at the foot of Mount Tabor. Hezron was an only son, and by the death of his father had become-the possessor of a large inheritance. The maiden of his choice had become the wife of his youth. His char- acter for integrity, benevolence and devotion to the law of Moses, had elicited the unani- mous voice of his tribe that Le should be the chosen prince of Zebulon. Thus had his au- thority and watch-care been extended beyond his own numerous household, over the people '-  i" .   ,  *   .'   THE CONQUEST.     13 L X      . I of his tribe, and in the exercise of the official relations which thus devolved upon him, he had gained universal respect and love by the impartiality of his judgment, the benevolence of is regulations, and his conscientious adher- ence to the law and the testimony. With a grateful heart, Hezron acknowledged the rich gifts which the God of his fathers had be, stowed upon him; he recounted with thanks- giving the overflowing of his basket and store, the multiplying of his flocks and herds, the blessings of his going out and his coming in. Years- fled by and left but one wish of his heart ungratified. He had but one child, a daughter. His cup of blessing would have: been filled to overflowing, could he have'- heard the words, "my father," from the lips of ason. At length his fondest hopes were realized, and a son was born unto him. But the same moon, which, in waxing fullness, shone on the scenes of rejoicing at the birth of the infant- heir, shed its waning beams upon the grave of 2   "    THE YEAR OF J UBILEE. the mother. The affliction was the more bit- ter to Hezron, coming as it did when he felt himself upon the summit of earthly happiness. The desire of his heart had been gr ..ted, but she who could most deeply sympathize with hig joy, was forever removed from his eyes. Long and earnestly did he seek to learn sub- tmission, and although he acquiesced in the will of his father's God, yet the long deep shade of sorrow settled over the former gladness of his way. Nevertheless he put not from him with a misanthropic spirit the sources of happiness which were still vouchsafed to him. His pub- lie duties were pursued with the same fidelity as before, his industry found scope in the cul- tivation of his olive-yards and vineyards, and his ever new delight was the companionship of Judith, and the endearments of the little Iddo. As may be inferred from the character thus sketched, eezron was no lover of war. Far rather would he have entrenched himself in the beautiful quiet of his own rich domains, i-;  -    THE CONQUEST.      15 dressing his vines and pruning his fig trees, than to have been clothed with the most splendid honors of military victory. Yet it was neither indolence, cowardice, nor love of selfish enjoyment that prompted his dislike of war. It was founded on principle. It was derived from a careful study of the divinely appointed laws of that civil polity which had- been transmitted to his nation by the Hebrew lawgiver. Moses had discouraged the spirit of-war. He had permitted its practice only as being for the present an unavoidable alter- native, while the various provisions of the form of government'which he had revealed were fit- ted, either directly or indirectly, to stifle its spirit and discontinue its practice. He had sought to avoid for the Hebrews all entangle- ments with other nations. He had decreed that every Israelite should inherit a part of the soil of Canaan, so that it might be for the individ- ual interest to protect the country from the ravages of war; and-had most diligently re- commended and enforced agriculture as the   16     THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. great business of the people, that scope might be afforded for their industry, and that in its quiet pursuits they might cease to acquire a relish for the exciting scenes of the camp and the battle-field. Hezron had not only imbibed the spirit of the laws of iMoses; but had, in his own mode of life, as a diligent agriculturist, proved the efficacy of those provisions in pro- ducing a settled aversion to the pursuits of war. It resulted, therefore, that at an rage when military prowess was accounted the surest passport to renown, Hezron looked upon war in its true light, as subversive of every civil, social, and domestic interest, and most heartily deprecated its approach. But long had his people groaned beneath the yoke of captivity. For twenty years Jabin, king of Canaan, had   "mightily oppressed the children of Israel." The peo- pie, with spirits broken by long servitude, listlessly yielded themselves to their fate, and national hope seened almost extinct. Then it was that the spirit which was to, work the   THE CONQUEST.     17 deliverance of the Hebrews rested upon the head of a woman, the latent sparks of patriot- ism were kindled on the altar of a female heart. Deborah, the wife of Lapidoth, a pro- phetess, judged Israel at the time, dwelling beneath the palm trees, between Ramah and Bethel. As the children of her people came up to her for judgment, her heart grieved for the degradation of the seed of Abrahamn and the bondage of the land of promise. But the bitterness of her spirit was turned to re- joicing, as, by the eye of prophetic wisdom, she beheld her country's emancipation near at hand. Then the noble purpose was con- ceived within her soul to be herself the in- strument in the hand of the Lord; who should remove the mighty weight of oppression which was crushing to the dust every lofty aspiration of the chosen people. She would break the iron chains of bondage, and lead their captivity captive. Israel should again be free. She therefore sent to Barak of Kedesh, re- 2*   18    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. quiring him to draw towards Mount Tabor with ten thousand men of the tribes of Naphtali and Zebulon, assuring him that the Canaani- tish general and his army should be deli- vered into his hand. To such a summons, Hezron, as prince of his tribe, could not but lend a listening ear; from such a cause he could not withhold his helping hand. Bless- ing his children from the fullness of a father's heart, he armed himself for the conflict, to- wards the scene of which his tardy footsteps were hastened by the visit of the prophetess, to which allusion has been made. When Judith heard no more the retreating footsteps of her father, she shut herself in her own apartments, refusing to be comforted. But her faithful nurse, Leah, who, since her mother's death, had supplied to her as far as possible the place of her tender parent, whis- pered words of hope and cheer, till, yielding to their influence, Judith dried her tears, and listened with increasing interest concerning the issue of the conflict as prophesied by   THE CONQUEST.     .19 Deborah. At length, as the hope of her father's victorious return grew brighter and brighter in her heart, she rose up, exclaiming, with the impulsive determination which was her natural characteristic-"I will go upon the housetop that I may see this wondrous battle. Nay, Leah," she continued, as she perceived her nurse about to object, "if, as thou sayest, Israel shall be triumphant, and Hezron shall return joyful in conquest, why should not I behold the victory?" The scene that lay outspread before Judith and her nurse, as they stood upon the flat roof of the dwelling, was one of surpassing beauty. It was in the fourth month, which is June. The tribe of Zebulon had received their inheritance in the plains of Esdraelon, extending from Mount Carmel and the Medi- terranean, to the southern extremity of the Sea of Galilee. The domain of Hezron thus lay in the midst of a country which, for luxuri- ance and beauty, might have vied with the ancient Eden. ".           .    20.    THE YEASi OF JUBILEE. The house faced the sun-setting.  The smooth plain that extended from its front was ornamented with trees and flowering shrubs, among which the cypress reared its stately head above the graceful willows; and the acacia, the oleander, and the myrtle, spread their rivalling beauty above the hid- den lily of the valley. On the south lay olive-yards and vineyards, interspersed with plantations of divers kinds of fruits. The fig tree half concealed her later figs beneath the covering of her broad deep foliage, and the narrow spear-shaped leaves of the pome- granate displayed the exquisite form and color of her rounded fruit. The almond tree had lost the white robes of her blossoming, and was stripped of her- early produce, yet her emptiness but heightened the glory of the citron tree of noble grace, refreshing shade, exquisite fragrance, and golden fruit. Towering majestically above all, the palm tree, with his heavily hanging dates, spread a lofty canopy for his kingly head, and smiled \ ,           -   -   THE CONQUEST.  .    21 in pride upon the queenly vine, who grace. fully reclined in her flowing robes of royal purple. On the east extended broad wheat and barley fields which had just yielded their overflowing plenty to the ingathering of the harvest. To the north stretched rich pasture lands, diversified with rocks, which, covered with aromatic plants, seemed alive with bees extracting their delicious honey. Numerous flocks and herds roamed over these pastures, rejoicing in the fatness of the earth and the dew of heaven; while in the distance the lake of Gennesaret sparkled in its glorious ves- ture of blue and gold. Northwest from the dwelling of Hezron, within a distance of 'two or three furlongs, rose Mount Tabor from its surrounding plain, isolated and alone. Sublimely it stood in its lofty grandeur, whether in the clear sunlight it appeared in bold relief against the back- ground of a deep blue sky, or whether rising far above the storm cloud, its height was revealed by the flashing lightnings that illul   22  -  THE YEA OF JUBIME. mined its summit.  Over its girdings of strength were likewise cast the lighter adorn- ments of beauty. From its base to its sum- mit it was entirely covered with verdure, be- ing decorated with small oak trees and odor- iferous shrubs, and enamelled by plants and flowers. A spiral path, winding two or three times about the mountain, made it easy of ascent, notwithstanding its height. But this scene of wide-spread beauty was unnoticed by Judith and Leah, in the absorb- ing interest with which they gazed upon the preparations for the conflict, in which were in- volved such momentous issues. Besides the ten thousand men of Zebulon and Naphtali, recruits had come from other tribes, making in all a body of forty thou- sand. Excepting some articles of armor worn 'by the princes, they were destitute of-all the paraphernalia of war; among them  was neither sword nor spear nor martial band, nor pranping charger. Hastily, but silently they ascended the mountain, each tribe led by its of    THE CONQUEST.      23 own prince. Among all, the figure of Debo- rah was most conspicuous, as she rode by the side of Barak, in advance of the tribes of her people. The meek footsteps of the milk-white ass which bore her, seemed a fit emblem of the unassuming dignity with which she pro- secuted her lofty and courageous purpose. - In the calm majesty of conscious greatness, she led her people on, her queenly figure now brought out in bold relief by an opening in the shrubbery, and again half hidden by the luxuriant foliage. As Judith gazed, her im- pulsive soul seemed to catch the spirit which animated the prophetess. Her heart grew warm in the issue of the approaching contest, and when at length the Israelites had gained their destined position upon Tabor, and the mighty hosts of Sisera were descried ad- vancing along the plain below, she forgot all danger, cast away every fear, and as the sym- pathies of her whole being became enlisted in the scene before her, she only wished her- self by the side of her father. The Canaan-   24    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. itish general drew up his forces on the plain of Esdraelon, in the dread array of battle. Nine hundred chariots of iron composed his formidable cavalry, and his army, trained upon the battle field, were fearful in their might. The Hebrews, from their high position, des- cended to the conflict, and lo!" one chased a thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight." Most miraculous was the victory of Israel. "They fought from heaven. The stars in their courses fought against 'Sisera." The myriads of the Canaanitish army were as dust before the whirlwind, and their mighty leader, alighting from his chariot, fled away upon his feet, and fell ingloriously and treacherously by the hand of a woman. The contest was over, the victory won. Israel was free. How did the heart of Debo- rah burn within her at the thought that the bands of twenty years' oppression had been broken by her hands, that the people she ruled had been emancipated by her own instrumen- tality.: As the Hebrew pursuers returned   THE CONQUEST.         25 to the foot of Tabor, when it drew towards the setting of the sun, her whole soul went out in thanksgiving, for the wondrous deliver- ance that had been wrought for he:     people. The ruler and judge was lost in the poet, as a sublime rapture stirred the depths of her impassioned being, and from her glowing lips burst forth the unstudied strain of her inimit- able song in the lofty notes of victory: Praise ye the Lord for the avenging of Israel, When the people willingly offered themselves. Hear, O ye kings; give ear, O ye princes; I, even' I, will sing unto the Lord; I will sing praise to the Lord God of Israel. Awake, awake, Deborah: utter a song; Arise, Barak, lead thy captivity captive, Thou ton of Abinoam. They fought from heaven; The stars in their courses Fought against Sisera. The river of Kishon swept them away, / That pncient river, the river Kishon. O my soul, thou hast trodden down strength. So let all thine enemies perish, O Lord: 3,   26     THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. But let them that love thee be as the sun, The sun when- he goeth forth in his might. Judith listened with a rapturous delight, as ever and anon the swelling notes of triumph with which the people responded to the song, were borne to her ear on the western breeze. As the sounds ceased, she descended from the house top, nd calling her maidens, bade them array her in festive garments and twine jewels in the braided bands of her hair. Then taking a timbrel in her hand, she went forth to welcome her father's return with music and dances. Her white robes gleamed through the dark green foliage of the oleander and myrtle trees, and her dancing feet waked anew the fragrant breath of flowers, as her elastic figure moved responsive to the joyous strains of song and timbrel. How beautiful a vision was Judith to the returning Hezron, as he stepped his weary foot upon the precincts of his home. How gratefully on his ear fell the sweet notes of   TEE CONQUEST.      27 her festive welcome. As she met her father, she stopped but a moment to receive his kiss of gladness; then turning, preceded his foot- steps with dance and song to the door of the court. Such may be the triumphs of conquest, but who can count the sorrows. that follow in its train? Who may paint the blackness of deso- lation that rolls as a heavy cloud after the footsteps of war? - When have not its rivers of blood been followed by rivers of tears? and the notes of its loudest, proudest song of victory been stifled by the agonized cry of the orphan, and the bitter wail of anguish that hath gone up from the widow's heart. The excellence of the administration of De- borah as judge of Israel, may be inferred from the long period of peace and prosperity which followed her celebrated victory. "And the land had rest forty years." "It is beauti- ful to observe in the career of Deborah, how the highest exercise of the manly virtues may be so shaded and softenedby feminine   28    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. modesty, as to be in perfect harmony with a true female character. Though the prime mover and directress of the grand object of her country's freedom, she would not herself become a leader in war, but sends to Barak, that he may take the nominal charge of the tribes, and lead them to battle. When Barak makes her presence the express condition of his undertaking, she wavers not a moment. Her courage and resolution are equal to any demand for the good of her people, and un- hesitatingly she accompanies the captain of the Lord's hosts to the top of Tabor, and the cnsanguined plains of the Kishon. In her sublime poem she celebrates the achieve- ments of others, equally with her own. The first woman of her own, perhaps of any age, blending the rare ability of good public gov- ernment in its highest form of administration, iwith the lofty gifts of poetic genius, she takes her place in a modest position, without any of the externals of greatness. Instead of es- tablishing for herself a hall of state, and col- ;           e.   THE CONQUEST.      29 lecting about her the retinue of a princess, she dwelt beneath the palm tree, between Ramah and Bethel, giving counsel to princes, and sought unto of all Israel." * *Hunter's Sacred Biography. 8* 3.   CHAPTER nI. THE HARVEST TIME. AiFrTI the excitement of conflict; and the restoration of public peace, Hezron gratefully returned to the quiet duties and enjoyments of domestic life. One day, as he reclined within the court towards the setting of the sun, with Judith by his side, the little Iddo, a child of some three years, rushed into the apartments, his large eyes dilated with passion, and the expressions of grief and an- ger struggling for the mastery upon his face, as stamping his foot upon the pavement, he exclaimed in, his own peculiar dialect, "Say that Timna shall not leave me, my father. She is my mother. Bid her that she stay." "What hath troubled thee, little one?" said Hezron soothingly; but at that moment the. 80   THE HARVEST-TIME.    31 child's nurse entered the court, in pursuit of her charge. Iddo gazed on her a moment with an inquiring expression, as if he would read her very soul, then fleeing to her em- brace, clasped his arms about her neck, and laid his head upon her shoulder, as he said with' winning confidence, "Thou wilt not leave me. If thou goest with Zerah I will go with thee, for thou art my mother." "The boy grieveth that soon I go out from thy house," said Timna, in reply to Hezron's demand for an explanation of the scene before him. "I have served thee six years, and in the seventh year I am free, according to the word of Moses. Nevertheless I would gladly bind myself to thy house forever," she con- !  tinued, " for thou hast been to me as a father, and my soul cleaveth to thy young son, whom I have nourished, and brought up from his birth. It is, as thou knowest, but one month since the feast of his weaning, and it would be a delight to me to remain with thee during the two years thou wilt yet leave thy son in   32    THE YEAR OF JUBTLER3. charge of women. But I may not stay. It was at the last feast of the passover, that Zerah, the brother of Zippo, my husband, who hath died in thy house, betrothed me un- Sjthimself, and I promised when the years of my servitude should be fulfilled, to become his wife. Now, therefore, give me thy bless- ing before I depart," pleaded Timna, as her lip quivered, and large tears glistened in her dark eyes, "for thou hast done me good, and not evil, all the years I have been with thee." "It is as thou sayest," replied Hezron. "At the feast of the next new moon, thou art free. Would that I might hear thee ask still to re- main in my house. But for thee I rejoice that thy freedom is at hand, and that thou art once more to become a wife in Israel. Thou hast been unto me a faithful servant, and a tender nurse to mine only son. Thou shalt not go forth empty-handed. I will give unto thee of my store-house and wine-press, and thou shalt thyself choose from the flocks and   THE HARVEST-TIME.    33 herds. May the Lord build up thine house, that thy children may perpetuate the name of thy husband in Israel, and may He give unto thee a dwelling place in the land which He hath blessed." Iddo had lifted his head, and with earnest gaze had been listening to the words of Timna and his father. As he perceived that his worst fears were about to be realized, and felt with the unerring penetration of childhood that his last resource, the mandate of his father's authority, had failed him, he buried his face in his nurse's garments, and sobbed bitterly with the bursting grief of his heart. -Timna tried to comfort him, but could only weep in sympathy. i  "I will be thy nurse and thy mother, Iddo," said Judith, kneeling down by his side. "I shall not depart and leave thee. Thou shalt sleep upon my couch at night, and wake me when the cock croweth for the coming of the day. Thou shalt go forth with me to seek out the honey and to gather grapes and figs. I   34 -   THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. will plant a little vineyard and thou shalt train the vines thereof. I will pluck for thee budding roses, red and white, and sweet lilies of the valley, that thou mayest make garlands for my head. I will lead thee among the beau- tiful white goats, and will teach the lambs of the flock' to eat bread from thy hands." Iddo's tears dried upon his cheeks as he listeined to the winning words of Judith, and once and again he raised his head from its hiding-place and looked upon his sister with an expression as if he were almost won to trust himself in her keeping. But in a mo- ment he nestled back again upon the bosom of the faithful Timna, unwilling to resign that. tried and loving resting-place. "I will tell thee glorious tales of our people that thou shalt delight to hear," said Judith, confidently, knowing that this inducement would weigh more with the child than all others. Iddo lifted his head quickly, clasped his lit- tle hands with an expression of gladness, and   THE HARyEST-TIME.    35 springing into Judith's arms, laid his glowing cheek against her own, exclaiming decisively, "Thou art my mother." From that hour the love of the two was as if the tie that binds the hearts of brother and sister were entwined with the stronger, holier bond, that unites the mother to her son. Meantime Hezron had been pacing up and down the court full of heaviness, for he thought of her whose heart would have melted at the sound of the young child's voice, unto whom his bright presence would have been an ex- ceeding joy. "Alas," murmured the stricken husband, " that Rebecca should never behold the child's beauty, that she should never hear his laugh of gladness, nor soothe his cries of sorrow. Alas for my dead, whom the grave hath hidden from my sight.! Hezron was roused from his sad reverie by the sudden springing of Iddo into the arms of Judith, and as he heard the simple words with which the little one sealed the covenant of adoption with his sister, his heart was greatly   36    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. comforted. "The Lord bless my children," he said fervently, laying a hand upon the head of each. "The God of Israel cause them evermore to walk in the light of his counte- nance." "Now thou wilt walk in the court with me," said Iddo, stretching out his hands unto his father. And with the child folded in his arms, Hezron continued that same measured tread to and fro across the pavement, speaking softly of things that Iddo loved to hear, or singing low sweet strains from the psalm of Moses, until the twilight faded, and the full moon edged with light the western wall of the court. Judith entered immediately and heartily upon the discharge of her self-imposed duties, and found an ever new delight in the charge of the little Iddo. Her own sources of plea- sure were multiplied sevenfold in seeking for his happiness. As she witnessed his sparkling delight while crowding his dimpled hands with flowers, her own soul opened afresh to   THE HARVEST-TIME.     37 the perception of their manifold beauties. As in childish glee he tried to dance in time with the light moving shadows of the aspen trees, or multiplied his childish fancies about the sailing clouds of the summer heavens, or silently watched the twinkling of the' evening star, or questioned unanswerable things concerning the God of Abraham, a new chord was struck in Judith's heart, which vibrated responsive to the touch of' those sweet yet mysterious influences that breathe upon the human spirit from earth, air, and sky, and from the dim and viewless future. -Thus passed many months after the depar- ture of Timna, and at length came the joy of harvest time. The wheat was not yet fully ripe, but the broad barley fields of Hezron resounded with mirth and gladness. In some, the waving grain was falling fast before the steadily moving sickles of the reapers; in others, women and children were binding the golden sheaves into bundles, not forget-' I .   .T     4=    38    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. ting to leave a share for the gleaners, who fol- lowed in their path. "The Lord be with you," said Hezron unto his reapers, as he entered the field of their labors, on a bright day of the third month, which is May. "We bless thee in the name of the Lord," was the fervent response of many voices, while busy hands still pressed forward the glad labors of the harvest-time. Judith, who had accompanied her father into the fields, lingered behind him in watch- care of Iddo, who was glancing here and there, now hiding in a field of standing wheat, now diligently gleaning the scattered ears, and anon burying himself beneath the unbound sheaves of barley. "The blessings of the God of the poor be upon thy head,. Judith" said a voice from among the gleaners. "Is it well with thee?" answered Judith, as she turned and gladly saluted Zipporah, the wife of Eliab, whom she had often visited in   THE HARVEST-TIME-    39 her lowly cot; "and thy husband, and the young Sarah-do they abide in peace ." "It is well," replied Zipporah, with a min- gled expression of resignation and gratitude. "Sarah is among the gleaners,". she continued, pointing to a group of children at a little dis- tance, "and my husband, although pain and darkness are appointed unto him, yet his soul dwelleth under the wings of the God of Israel all the day long." "Thou sayest truly," answered Judith with deep feeling; "I have not forgotten his pre- cious counsels, nor his teachings in the Law of the Lord, and 1 must come again to hearken thereto, that I may hide them deep in my heart." At this moment, Sarah, the daughter of Zipporah, a child of some eight years, came near her mother, hdlding by the hand the running, dancing Iddo, and showing her bas- ket full of gleanings. "It is Iddo who hath done it," she said, looking upon the mirthful face of the little one, "but surely I may   40  i  THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. not keep the barley, for he hath taken it from the sheaves of Leah of his father's house." "Verily thou shalt keep it, Sarah," said Judith, "for I will give it thee." "Thou hast my thanks," answered Sarah with a blushing face of gratitude, far more expressive than her words. "What aileth thee, Hannah?" asked Ju- dith of a little maiden with tear-swollen cheeks; " thy face becometh not the gladness of the harvest-time. "Alas!" answered Hannah, with a fresh burst of grief, "I am thinking of the last ingathering, when I gleaned after the foot- steps of my father, as he filled with sheaves his bosom, and he said to me, 'Thou art the staff of my hands and the light of my eyes.' I hear the laughing and the shouting of the reapers, and my heart boundeth with the songs which they sing; but I can only think of my father afar off in the wilderness and alone. He singeth not' the songs of the har- vest, he crieth (unclean, unclean.' For this 2,   THE HARVEST-TIME.    41 my soul is sorrowful and my tears will not be stayed." "Indeed thy grief is great, and I am ex- ceeding sorry for thee, Hannah," answered Judith, with a tremulous voice. "How long since thy father departed from among the people, and how is it with thy mother in her sorrow ." "My mother cannot be comforted," replied Hannah. 4 Many days she refuseth food, and weepeth day and night. There have been three new moons since the priests found upon my father the terrible spots of the leprosy. Many times he made ready to go forth and blessed us with strong crying and prayers, but it was as if he could not leave us forever; and at last he stole away in the middle watch of the night, when my mother slept, and we knew it not." , "Truly a sore affliction hath come unto thy house," said Judith, with a full heart of sym- pathy, ' but the Lord shall be the support and refuge of thy mother and her little ones. fe . 1 '       4*  ^  '    42    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. Beneath His care ye shall not hunger, nor thirst, nor lack any good thing."' "Surely I know that the God of Israel tak- eth care of the widow and the fatherless," answered Hannah, with the beautiful faith of childhood. "It is not for ourselves that we mourn, it is for him, my father, who dwelleth evermore in the wilderness alone." "Thou shalt come unto me every third day of the week, in the morning," said Judith, as parting with Hannah, she tenderly kissed her. and spake low words of soothing kindness, "and I will give thee bread and ready-cooked meat from the herds, with butter and honey, that thou mayest carry pleasant food unto thy :father." Hannah's smile of gratitude shone quick and bright through her tears, and she warmly kissed the hand of Judith which she had been  holding within her own.   CTTAPTER II. THE VISIT TO THE POOR AND NEEDY. THE harvest-time embraced the second and third months of the year, extending from the middle of April to the middle of June. Then came the summer,twhen the earth rejoiced in her abundance of fruits. In this season were reckoned the fourth and fifth months, com- prising the latter half of June, July, and the former half of August. In the early morn- ing of one of the days of summer, Judith went forth with Iddo, to tarry for the day with Eliab and Zipporah. The sun had not yet drank the copious dews of night, the air was clear and fresh, and the heavens of deep, unfathomable blue. Two servants attended the Hebrew maiden, one laden with baskets A   filled with generous remembrances of the Ia /      .   .4 2r   ":    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. poor, and the other ready to bear the young child in his arms, when he became weary on the way. The dwelling of Eliab was situated sev- eral furlongs northward from the house of Hez- ron, and before Judith reached it, the heat had become oppressive. But this was forgotten, as the humble abode appeared in sight, sheltered beneath the spreading branches of a large terebinth tree. Zipporah came forth to bid Judith welcome, and Iddo jumped quickly from the arms of the servant who had carried him, to meet Sarah, who ran to him with quiet but delighted greeting. Judith entered the house, and approached the couch where Eliab reclined in a half sit- ting posture, supported by cushions. "The Lord bless thee, daughter of Hezron," said the blind man, as he heard the footsteps of Judith, and he stretched out to her his one unwithered hand, made thin and pale by wasting pain. "Doth the Lord still manifest himself unto   VISIT TO THE POOR AND NEEDY.  45 thee " asked Judith, and she spake reverently, as unto a seer of heavenly visions. "He lifteth me up on high" answered Eliab. "Ie setteth my feet on a rock. He enlight- eneth me with the glory of his presence. Blessed be his holy name, forever and ever." After kind inquiries concerning the mala- dies of the invalid, Judith drew forth the con- tents of the baskets, and gave them unto Zip- porah. There were fresh cakes of wheat, with a tender lamb of the flock, ready dressed, cheese and butter, with bottles of olive oil and wine, and summer fruits in their delicious ripeness, citrons, pomegranates, and figs. One basket yet remained unopened, the spe- cial property of Iddo. So with his own hands he unfastened the cover thereof, and took there- from, with Judith's help, a pot of honey, which he had brought as a gift to Sarah. The honey was most acceptable to the little maiden, but the Tyrian jar that contained it was beyond price in her eyes, for it was of exquisite form and workmanship, and overlaid with figures of   "    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE.       I purple and gold. Next Iddo presented the first clusters of ripe grapes from his father's vine- yards unto Eliab, that they might be a refresh- ing unto him; and lastly he drew forth a piece of cloth, of delicate goat's hair, which he gave unto Zipporah, saying, in all the integrity of his childish heart, "This I have helped Leah to spin with mine own fingers." In his early youth, Eliab had been a chosen man in his tribe for vigor and strength, and life's visions stretched fair and bright before him, when he brought his young wife to the dwelling-place of his own inheritance, among the sons of Zebulon. But soon disease laid its consuming hand upon him, and he was brought nigh unto the grave. Long he trem- bled upon its very verge, and when he and his stricken wife knew that prolonged life was appointed unto him, they knew likewise that it was a life of privation and suffering. The limbs upon one side of his body were smitten by paralysis, while those of the other were still agonized with pain; and, worse than all,   VISIT TO THE rooR AND JNIEDY.  47 the light of his eyes had gone out forever, and he was locked in midnight darkness. At first his spirit rebelled because of the heavy rod that smote him, but at length he learned to recognize the hand of his fathers' God in his afflictions, and he humbled himself as a little child beneath the grievous chastening. But his troubles came not single-handed. The treasures of his storehouse and barn grad- ually wasted away; he heard no more the low- ing of his kine at the hour of their milking, nor the bleating of his sheep from their fold, and still calamity followed hard upon calam- ity, until at length he passed from beneath the shadow ofhis own vine and fig tree, and leaving the inheritance of his fathers in the possession of another, took up his abode in the lowly dwelling .of charity, as one of the poor of Israel. Yet while affliction had gathered about the earthly way of Eliab, his spiritual progress had been as the path of the just, even as a shining light, growing brighter and brighter M,    ih, rwn    48    TIE YEAR OF JUBILEE. unto the perfect day." Shut up within the chambers of his own soul, he pondered the ways of the Lord, as manifested from the beginning unto the children of men, and medi- tated diligently upon the law and the testi- mony which had been given unto Moses. And while he mused, the eyes of his understand- ing were opened to behold wondrous things therein. The field of his spiritual vision grew broader on every side, and multiplied manifold its objects of exceeding glory, till his thoughts were lifted up from earth to dwell continually in the bright realms of his spiritual imagery. He companied with the heavenly visitants, whose white wings had again and again gleamed in brightness on the sin-stricken earth, till his spirit forgot its smitten, dark- ened tabernacle, and followed their flight to and fro through the wide universe of God; or, -if in the still night-watches he slumbered not for pain, he breathed softly, with a strange joy, knowing, that the angels encamped round about him. Then his soul ascended   VISIT TO TUO POOR AND N UEY.  49  unto Him who had created the hosts of heaven, and sent them forth by numbers, and swelled in the fullness of adoration, or melted in the overflowings of contrite love, as he held communion. with the God of all the earth. Zipporah received the gifts of Judith with gladness, and after many and, cordial expres- sions of gratitude, she resumed her distaff, and proceeded diligently with the spinning of flax for fine linen, which she was doing for the mistress of a large household within the bor- ders of Issacar. Judith seated herself by the couch of Eliab, and gently fanned his flushed face, for now the ascending sun poured down his beams with an exceeding heat, while Sarah and Iddo, full of the busy life of child- hood, flitted in and out, intent upon their play. "It is surely wonderful," remarked Zip- parah, "how the Lord always supplieth our need, even before our last store hath failed. In all the days of our poverty, we have never   50    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. lacked for bread, yea wine and oil have many times abounded unto us." j  The fullness of the land is in the hand of the Lord," answered Eliab, "and blessed are they who fulfill his word in remembering the poor. Listen unto his promise," he added, address- ing Judith, "Because that for this thing the Lord thy God shall bless thee in all thy works, and in all that thou puttest thine hand to." "Truly, I know that thou shalt never want," answered Judith, "for there are many who count it a delight to minister unto thee and thine. Neither do we regard it as a gift which we bring, but the just tribute which the Lord requireth at our hands. May I never forget this lesson from the law, which I learned when a little child at my mother's knees, and which I have diligently taught unto my young brother." "Come to me, Iddo," she said, as the child ran within the door, "and tell me the com- mandment concerning the poor." Instantly Iddo's face assumed an expression /  /   VISIT TO THE POOR AND NEEDY. 51 of reverence, beautiful to behold, and in the rich tones of his native Hebrew, slightly bro- ken by the imperfect speech of childhood, he repeated, "If there be among you a poor man, of one of thy brethren, within any of thy gates, in thy land which the Lord thy God giveth thee, thou shalt not harden thy heart, nor shut thy hand from thy poor brother. But thou shalt open thine hand wide unto him, and shalt surely lend him sufficient for his need, in that which he requireth. For the poor shall never cease out of the land. There- fore I command thee, saying, 'Thou shalt open thine hand wide unto thy brother, to thy poor, and to thy needy in thy land.'" "Now thou shalt say the lesson which I taught thee in the harvest-time," added Judith, "even upon the day when thou didst meet Sa- rah among the gleaners." And Iddo continued: "When thou cuttest down thine harvest in thy field, and hast forgot a sheaf in the field, thou shalt not go again to fetch it, it shall be  for the stranger, for the fatherless and the   52    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. widow, that the Lord thy God may bless thee in all the works of thy hands. "When thou beatest thine olive tree, thou shalt not go over the boughs again, it shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless and the widow. "When thou gatherest the grapes of thy vineyard, thou shalt not glean it afterward, it shall be for the stranger, the fatherless and the widow. And thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondsman in the land of Egypt, therefore I command thee to do this thing. "I will tell thee glad tidings," exclaimed Iddo earnestly, as the last words of the pas- sage suggested the idea that had of late, chiefly filled his mind. "On the day after the morrow, my father will take me unto Shiloh, whither he goeth up to worship and to sacrifice before the Lord." And he passed his hand confidingly over Eliab's face, as if assured of his warmest sympathy. "Blessed are thine eyes, that they may be- hold the tabernacle of the Lord, while thou   VISIT TO THE POOR AND NEEDY.  53 art yet a young child," answered Eliab. "The remembrance thereof shall be unto thee as a sure inheritance." "And wilt thou indeed see the tabernacle?" said Sarah unto Iddo, when Judith had again entered into conversation with her parents, and her flushed face and clasped hands bore witness to her deep appreciation of the privi- lege Iddo was about to enjoy. "Wiltthou walk within the court round about, and be- I  hold the brazen laver, and the altar of sacri- fice, and lift up thine eyes unto the dwelling- place of the Lord " "Yea, truly," answered Iddo, "would I were a son of Aaron, that I might one day stand in the holy place, and behold its seven burning lights, its tables of shew bread, and its golden altar of incense,." "But thou wouldst not desire to be the high priest," rejoined Sarah, "seeing it is a thing of trenmbling, that on the Great Day of Atonement, he entereth within the veil, with blood for the sins of the whole -people." *H,      5*   54    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. "Yet shall he not be afraid," answered Iddo, "because he boweth before the mercy- seat, whence God forgiveth iniquity, trans- gression and sin." "My father will also bring me unto Mount Ebal, and Mount Gerizim," added Iddo after a pause; "but I cannot tell thee what he will show me there, because the thing is gone from me." "He will show thee the altar, and the plas- tered pillars of stone, with the laws written thereon," rejoined Sarah, deeply interested, "even th{e altar and the pillars which Joshua set up by the commandment of the Lord, when he had gained an inheritance for Judah, Ephraim, and the half tribe of Manasseh. And thy father will repeat unto thee the cove- nant which the people there made with the Lord, when they took possession of the pro- mised land, and brought up the ark from Gil- gal unto Shiloh; and he will tell thee of the six tribe that stood upon Mount Geri- zim to bless the obedience of the people, and   VISIT TO THE POOR AND NEEDY.  55 of the six tribes that stood upon Mount Ebal to pronounce curses upon the breaking of the commnandments. And the priests, and tle Levites, with the ark of the covenant, re- mained in the valley between./Then the Le- vites proclaimed the blessings of God unto the people that walk in his law, and the thousands upon Gerizim answered, 'Amen; and they uttered the curses which shall come upon a rebellious generation, 'and the thousands upon  Mount Ebal answered, 'Amen."' "I will ascend upon Gerizim, because it is the mount of blessing," said Iddo, " but my feet shall not stand upon Ebal." "Perchance thou wilt see the place of Jordan near Jericho, where the people came over on dry land," said Sarah, "and the twelve stones which Joshua took from the river, and set up at Gilgal to teach the same to the children of all generations. Moreover, at Gilgal, the tabernacle was first reared in the land of promise."   56    TTHE YEAR OF JUBILEE. "Nay," said Iddo, hath not my father told me, that the priests bore the tabernacle unto Shiloh, and there have the people always worshipped in their ownand." "Nevertheless," answered Sarah, "when the people passed over Jordan, the Koha- thites bore the ark of the covenant first unto Gilgal, and there the Gershonites, and the Merarites set up the tabernacle, and the priests bore the sacred things therein. And the dwelling-place of the Lord was at Gilgal untilthe time of which I have spoken, when Joshua had driven out the heathen, from the inheritance of Judah and Ephraim." Iddo, still unconvinced, referred the contest- ed point unto Eliab, and meekly received his decision, that Sarah had spoken truly concern- ing the abidings of the tabernacle; meanwhile, showing by his questions and replies, that though of tender years, he had treasured up many things concerning the history of Israel. "My soul rejoiceth that thou dost remem- ber the statute of the Lord," said Eliab unto   VISIT TO THE POOR AND NEEDY.  5 Judith. "'These things shalt thou diligently teach unto thy children when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest in the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up.' And when thou dost re- count the past dealings of the Lord unto thy brother, forget not to lead him onward likewise to thoughts of the future. Tell him of the prophet who shall yet arise, like unto Moses, who hath seen the Lord face to face; and yet greater than Moses: 'the seed of the woman' -the promise of ages, the 'Shiloh,' unto whom the gathering of the people shall be- 'the Star of Jacob,' which shall enlighten the whole earth. Teach him the precious promises that point forward to a state of greater blessedness than aught the land of Canaan can give; that insure a greater deliv- erance from sin and sorrow, than was the salvation of Noah and his house from the overwhelming flood, that give a firmer ground of trust to our sinful race than the everlast- ing foundations of Ararat offered to the   58    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. drifting ark; that hold out brighter hopes than the olive branch of the returning dove, which spake of drying waters, and greenness springing forth to the sunlight, beneath the smiles of a peace-giving God." "Shall the Lord visit 'us again, as he hath visited our fathers," asked Judith, "when Hioreb burned with his presence, and Sinai quaked beneath his voice, and he shined forth from Paran in his glory?" "Truly the Angel of the Covenant, who hath appeared unto his people, hath not departed forever from the earth," answered Eliab. ( Shall not He who promised unto Abraham a blessing through lis seed unto all nations, yet appear to fulfill his own word Shall not Ile who wrestled with Jacob till the breaking of the day, again visit us to redeem the glorious pledge He hath given Surely, I believe that the world shall rejoice in the manifestation of the glory of the Lord yet more and more abundantly. While I meditate upon these things, my spirit rusheth onward unto the   VISIT TO THE POOR A1XD NEEDY. 59 coming ages, when God shalA have prepared his way before him, when the listening earth shall once more hear the voices of angels, and her mountains shall again kindle in glory beneath the footsteps of God. Moreover, hath he not taught us by the vision of our father Jacob, that a highway shall yet be established between heaven and earth, even a sure path for our feet, whereby we may ascend on high? For as the ladder had its foot upon the earth, and its top in the heavens, doth it not show that the councils of the Almighty have de- vised a way by which God shall come down unto man, anld man shall go up unto God?" "Didst thou mount up on the ladder of our father Jacob?" asked Iddo, for Eliab spoke concerning things invisible with such living faith that-the child regarded them as already seen. "Nay, my child," replied Eliab, "save in visions of the night, when my spirit hath many times followed close after its ascending angels. And then, my son, I have held com-   60    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. munion with him who dwelleth above the shining ladder, yea, far above the height of the stars, even the God of our fathers, who hath chosen Israel unto himself, and loved him with an everlasting love. Wilt not thou also, while a little child, choose thy portion in the Lord, and rest thy soul in his love, which is more tender than that of father or mother?" "Yea, verily," answered Iddo, "and wilt thou not entreat this blessing for me, because I know that thou dwellest nigh unto God." The spiritual face of Eliab was lighted with a holy joy, as he laid his one unwithered hand upon the head of the child, who meekly knelt with folded hands by his couch. And he said in tones low and fervent: "The God who hath made my soul to walk in light, bless the lad. Miay he grow up in strength, his loins being girded by the law of the Lord. May he receive of the precious things of the earth beneath, and the precious things of the heaven above; may he dwell on earth as beneath the   VISIT TO THE POOR AND NEEDY. 61 overshadowing glory of the cherubim, and may his everlasting inheritance be in the pre- sence of the living God." "Amen," responded Judith and Zipporah, with united voices, and the lips of the young child breathed softly, "Amen." "Dost thou never know complaining, nor repining?" asked Judith of Eliab, as after a paroxysm of pain, his countenance again as- sumed its beautiful expression of serenity and happiness. "Not while my soul resteth in God," an- swered Eliab. In the first days of mny afflic- tion, I murmured without ceasing, and sinned grievously. I said in my heart, 'Why doth the Lord pursue me with pain and terror, even unto the gates of the grave. I have not defrauded my neighbor, nor coveted his goods, nor borne false witness against him. I have saluted the stranger with blessing; I have given of my store to the widow and fatherless; yea, I have kept the commandments of God, and worshipped no other gods before him,' 6   62      THE YEAR O* JUBILEE.           . Thus  I recounted   mine  own  righteousness, and justified myself, uttering perverse things against the Lord; I said with Job, ' My      days are spent without hope,' and by night 'Thou scarest me with dreams, and terrifiest me through visions.    So that my   soul chooseth strangling and death rather than life.'" * "But a   thing  was secretly brought unto me," continued Eliab, "even as unto Eliphaz, the Temanite. "In thoughts from the visions of the night, When deep sleep falleth on men, Fear came upon me, and trembling, Which made all my bones to shake. Then a spirit passed before my face, The hair of my flesh stood up: It stood still, but I could not discern the form thereof: An image was before mine eyes. There was silence, and I heard a voice saying, A   Shall mortal man be more just than God? Shall a man be more pure than his Maker 9 Behold he put no trust in his servants; * The composition of the book of Job is placed chronologically before the Exodus, as both its'internal and external evidences indicate that it was not written after that event.   VISIT TO THE POOR AND NEEDY.    63 And his angels he charged with folly: How much less in them that dwell in houses of clay, Whose foundation is in the dust, Which are crushed before the moth?" "In that same hour my soul became filled with the terrible majesty of God, and I saw myself as an exceedingly little thing in the dust of his footstool. But as the sun shineth on every drop of the surface of the vast sea, and upon every grain of sand upon its shores, so the Lord looked down upon me, even upon me, dwelling in a house of clay, and sinning in his sight. And even while I knew that the eye of the Lord was upon me, the anguish which had pressed ime down with an exceed- ing heaviness, vanished away as a morning cloud, which one seeth no more, and my soul sprang in gladness from the dust, to make mention of the loving-kindness of God. Then I sang in the joy of my heart, "Behold, happy is the man whom God correcteth; Therefore despise not thou the chastening of the Almighty: For he maketh sore, and bindeth up;   "    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. He woundeth, and his hand maketh whole. He shall deliver thee in six troubles; Yea, in seven, there shall no evil touch thee.' Thus passed the quiet day with the children of the land of promise, varied by the blessed instructions and holy converse of the man of God, the cheerful gladness of the meals of noontide and eventide, the busy hum of the spindle, and the innocent mirth of child- dren. But now the declining sun sank low behind Tabor, and Judith made ready for departure. "Sarah entreateth that I will yet crave one favor from thee before thou goest forth," said Zipporah unto Judith, "and it is that thou: wilt sing the sacred song which she heard from thy lips, when she last waited for thy messages in the court of H ezron." "Truly I would fain listen to its words," said Eliab, "for I know they shall be unto my ,:-  spirit as d4ew upon the mown grass." "I have with me neither lyre nor timbrel," answered Judith, "yet I will gladly make   VISIT TO THE POOR AND NEEDY.       65 melody with my voice.'     And she sang the words of the Lord unto his servant Job. "Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare if thou hast understanding, Whereupon are the foundations thereof fastened, Or who laid the corner stone thereof, When the morning stars sang together, And all the sons of God shouted for joy.- "Canst thou bind the sweet influences of Pleiades, Or loose the bonds of Orion? Canst thou bring forth Mazzaroth in his season? Or canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons? Canst thou lift up thy voice to the clouds, That abundance of waters may cover thee? Canst thou send lightnings, that they may go And say unto thee, "Here we are?" Hast thou an arm like God, Or canst thou thunder with a voice like him?" Then the song suddenly changed from      its triumphant notes of majesty to     strains low, solemn, and tender as the fall of repentant tears. "Then Job answered the Lord and said: I know that thou canst do everything, 6*   "     THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. And that no thought can be withholden from thee. I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear; But now mine eve seeth thee. Wherefore I abhor myself,  And repent in dust and ashes." While Judith sang, the servants of her father came to accompany her home, so, re- ceiving once more the blessings of Eliab and Zipporah, the children  of Hezron returned from their visit unto the poor and needy. "Fear not, Sarah," said Iddo confidently, calling back to the little maiden who watched their retreating steps, "I will do as I have said unto thee. I will entreat my father that thou mayest go up to worship at Shiloh."   CHAPTER IV. THE VISIT TO THE TABERNACLE. THE stars had not yet faded from the sky on the day after the morrow, when several camels stood in the court yard of Hezron, which was scattered with surroundings that betokened an  eastern journey. Servants moved in and out with hasty steps, and careful preparations were quickly accom- plished by busy hands. At length all was ready, and the waiting camels knelt to re- ceive their riders. Those designed for the use of Hezron and his daughter, were dis- tinguished above the others by the richness of their trappings. Upon the back of Ju- dith's camel were spread soft, thick mats, or- namented with fringes of a brilliant color, upon which rested a litter, arranged with 67   68     THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. every convenience for ease and pleasure. A  firm covering of skins- formed the top of this litter, screening it from the rays of the sun, and extended likewise about the lower part of its sides, affording a firm protection to its rider, either for sitting or reclining. From the top descended, upon all sides, outer cur- tains of blue, embroidered and fringed by threads of silver, and inner curtains of fine linen, wrought in like manner with gold, all of which were arranged to. be withdrawn at pleasure, or to throw their protective shade over the soft furnishing, which, within the litter, invited to luxurious repose. Hezron first assured himself of the secure fastenings of the litter, and then assisted his daughter to mount therein. At a word the faithful camel slowly rose, as if studying the comfort of his light burden, and Judith was seated at a height of eight feet from  the ground, which, of itself, imparted a delight- ful sense of exhilaration, in prospect of the approaching journey. i ^   THE VISIT TO THE TABERNACLE.  69 Then the faithful Leah, whose pious heart had for many weeks yearned after this visit unto the tabernacle of the Lord, mounted another of the camels, and seated herself within its protective litter, accompanied by a young .maiden who had never gone up to Shiloh. Many others of the servants and maidens also settled themselves for the journey, for it was the custom of Hezron that a large por- tion of his household should, year by year, go up with him to worship before the Lord, while unto those that tarried behind, the same privilege was granted after the return of the first company. Iddo's request that Sarah should accom- pany him upon his journey had been granted. A servant had been sent on the preceeding evening to ask the permission of her parents, and to bring her unto the house of Hezron. And she now stood by the side of Iddo, watching the various proceedings with intense interest, whilst her heart beat high in a tumult ' , ' '.t           '   70    THE YEA  OF JUBILEE. of surprise and pleasure, as she tried fully to  realize that she was indeed to travel upon this long, delightful journey; that she was to be- hold Jericho and Gilgal, and the mountains of Gerizim and Ebal, yea, and to lift up her eyes in Shiloh, where dwelt the glory of the cherubim. Yet she was outwardly all unruf- fled and serene, save that her large eyes glis- tened brightly with the unshed tears of her overflowing joy. And now Hezron, greatly to the delight of the impatient Iddo, came at last to his own camel, which was differently prepared from the others. The cloths of its adorning were large, and wrought with brilliant colors. About its neck hung chains of gold, and the seat for its rider, with its spacious, well- WIi i supported frame, its ample cushions, and its richly ornamented canopy of purple, was as a lofty chair of state, worthy of the prince of Zebulon. But yet one more appendage was fastened to the camel of lezron, not a trapping of   THE VISIT TO THE TABERNACLE.  71 princely state, but a token of the bright presence of childhood. Upon either side of the animal hung a cradling basket, well screened without, and well cushioned within, and swaying to and fro, with easiest mo- tion, to the step of the camel. Hezron ten- derly placed the joyful Iddo in the basket at his right hand, for the proud father would not suffer that his only son should ride else- where on his first visit unto Shiloh. Then with equal tenderness he seated Sarah in the bas- ket on his left, and mounted to his own place. With the glad shouts of Iddo, and the unex- pressed fears of Sarah, the animal rose to his feet. Farewells and blessings were  ex- changed between those that went forth and those that tarried at home, and with a spirit of animation, hope, and joy, thrilling every heart, Hezron led forth his little caravan towards the fertile vales of Ephraim, to go up unto the tabernacle of the Lord. The season of heat, which immediately fol- lowed the summer, extended from the middle   72    THE YEA  OF JUBILEE. of August to the middle of October, embrac- ing the sixth and seventh months. This was th te time of the vintage, although in Canaan the first ripe clusters of the grapes were found two months earlier. This season was marked by even greater festivity than the harvest, and Canaan resounded with songs and shoutings, as her empurpled hill-sides yielded their rich treasures to her rejoicing children. As the lands of Hezron were level, afford- ing neither hill-side nor precipitous crags, which were so greatly used for the culti- vation of grapes, his vineyards were arranged with trellised arbors, over which most of the vines were trained, while some were suffered of to run over trees, and others to creep along l!  the ground. All the members of the house- hold counted it a joy to assist in the labors of the vintage. The heavy clusters were gath- ered in large baskets, which were borne by men to the winepress.  This was dug in the earth, and walled about the bottom and sides with stone-work. It consisted of two vats,   THE VISIT TO THE TABERNACLE. 73 one sunk considerably lower than the other, the upper prepared for the reception of the grapes with a small grated opening in one of its sides, near the bottom, for the flowing out of the expressed juice into the lower vat. The contents of the upper vat were com- pletely trodden by the feet of five or six men, who kept time to their labors with joyful songs, as unto merry dances, while their gar- ments were red with the blood of grapes, and the press flowed richly with new wine. Oftentimes the labors of the vintage were not accomplished until the seed-time, accord- ing to the word of the Lord, "And your thrashing shall reach unto the vintage, and the vintage shall reach unto the sowing-time." During the latter part of this period, shortly after the autumnal equinox, came the former rains, which were exceedingly refreshing unto a land which knew no showers during the four months of summer and heat. Unto a people who had thus long dwelt beneath an unclouded sky, under the beams of an almost 7   74    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. torrid sun, these rains came both as the earn- est and the fulfilment of all glad and invigo- rating blessings. They mellowed the earth, which had been hardened by the long drought of summer, and were succeeded by a period of pleasant weather, which was dili- gently improved by the husbandman by breaking the ground and casting in the seed The wheat was sown considerably earlier than the barley. The eighth and ninth months were counted for the season of seed time, em- bracing from the middle of October, to the middle of December. After this, the rains descended in great ,copiousness, and oftentimes with exceeding violence, being accompanied by high winds, with thunder and lightning. ;Streams that were hardly noticeable before, became as rivers, and rivers rushed in swollen fullness , through the land. These marked the season of winter, Wvhich comprised the tenth and eleventh months, extending from the middle of December to the middle of February.   THE VISIT TO THE TABERNACLE.  75 From the middle of February to the middle of April, which embraced the twelfth and first months, and was called the season of cold, showers fell at intervals until the vernal equinox. After this period came the latter rains, which were frequent and copious, and contributed to the fulness and perfection of the ripening grain. Thus the circling seasons of the land of promise were as living witnesses unto her children, of the faithfulness of the covenant that God made with Noah, in the day when he came out of the ark. "While the earth remaineth, seed time and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease." In Canaan, as in all other lands, the season of winter was especially devoted to domestic enjoyments. Although the cold was never severe, the Hebrews were accustomed to-use fires in their dwellings, especially at the be- ginning and close of the day. In the family of the prince of Zebulon, the        /   76    THE, YEAR OF JUBILEE.  God of Israel was honored by morning and evening worship, for Hezron said with Joshua, "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." In the early morning all the mem- bers of the household assembled, and Hezron as priest in his own house, blessed them, and prayed for them before the Lord. Unto every Hebrew, the petitions went up as the smoke of sacrifice, and their mingled praises as the breath of the morning incense. Hez- ron likewise repeated a portion of the Scrip- tures of M}oses, and instructed his household therein, and again blessing them, they went forth unto their labors. In the former part of the day, Judith was accustomed to engage in the active duties necessary for the comfort of a Hebrew home, and to learn from Leah many things concern- ing the management of the household, and the direction of the hand-maidens. Then she taught Iddo in the lesson from the Scriptures which he had previously received from his father, unfolding and explaining it, that he     THE VISIT TO THE TABERNACLE.  t7 might comprehend and remember its words. After this her time was varied by spinning, weaving and embroidery, by gleeful mirth with Iddo, by instructive converse with her father, or by songs to the music of her lyre. Thus the Hebrew maiden enjoyed the bless- ings of habitual industry, even health, ,a cheerful spirit, and a conscious power of use- fulness, which bring forth perennial fruits of hidden gladness. The winter parlor of Hezron, withits hang- ing curtains wrought with cunning work its soft thick mats and cushions for reclining of scarlet and purple, its fire of wood, crackling and blazing upon the hearth, and its family group-the father, daughter, and' son-enjoy- ing the unrestrained intercourse of mutual  confidence and love, presented a delightful picture of home happiness. Thus in the de- dining day "when the rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon the house," which trembled not upon its. unshaken foundation of rock, sat Hezron "j   78     THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. with his children. And as the light faded, Judith laid aside her distaff, with its soft wool, fine and white, or the embroidery of beauti- ful devices which she was preparing with dili- gent fingers, for the adorning of her father's bed-chamber, and talked again and again of the sayings of her mother, Rebecca, which, with a mournful satisfaction, Hezron was ever glad to hear. At this quiet evening hour, Iddo was accustomed to repeat his daily lesson from the law of Moses, and receive an- other for the ensuing day. With the earnest- ness of childhood he also multiplied his ques- tions about the wonderful history of Israel, :or uttered his own strange, yet beautiful fan- cies, concerning the unseen things, glimmer- ing dimly through the light of early revela- tion, while Hezron and Judith listened, both delighted and profited, as the child's simple conceptions clothed well-known truths with a new and living power.  Then oftentimes flowed forth the rich melody of Hebrew song, as the father and daughter united their voices   THE VISIT TO THE TABERNACLE.   79 in an evening offering of praise, which lifted up their own hearts, and brought the steal- ing of soft sleep over the weary limbs of Iddo. The farewell strains of Moses, or the blessings of the dying Jacob, filled with melting sweetness the pauses of the career- ing storm, or the words of Job, swiftly cir- cling the heavens and the earth, and gather- ing all things vast into one utterance of sublime majesty, blended in grand unison with the rolling thunders of the tempest.   CHTAPTER V THE -FtLFTLLTTD DREAM. MORE than two years had passed since the departure of Timna, and it was a balmy day in early harvest-time. Again Canaan smiled in gladness, as her smiling grain waved heavily in the breeze, and her blossoming fruit trees, breathing their choicest perfumes, stood adorned in the bridal robes of spring. The heat of the noon-day had passed, and the cloudless heaven was of a marvellous clearness in its unsearchable height of blue. Judith was pursuing the flying footsteps of Iddo beneath the cypress trees, and through the fragrant citron groves. Now he was almost within her reach, but anon, with a shout of gladness, he eluded her grasp, and 80   THE FULFILT4ED DREAM.    81 darted forwards, like a half-caught butterfly, rejoicing in its freedom. At length the child slackened his course, through weariness, and Judith led him to rest beneath the shady covert of a young palm tree. Its spreading limbs rested upon the vine-clad arbor, near which it sprang. The vine had crept over the foliage of the tree, and had fallen in heavy luxuriance upon the opposite side, till its clasping tendrils fastened themselves to some low shrubs near the surface of the ground. In this retreat, wherein only here and there a sunbeam strayed with shadowy light, Judith reclined upon a low seat, while Iddo stretched his tired limbs by her side, and rested his head up6n her lap. "Now, my sister," said the boy, when Judith had fanned his glowing face, and brushed the damp hair from his brow, "now wilt thou tell me of our father Isaac, when Abraham led him upon Mount Moriah for a burnt-offer- ing?" With all the minuteness of the unessential,   82    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. yet intensely interesting details of tradition, Judith portrayed the scene of the sacrifice offered by the father of the faithful. She. pictured the bright morning when Abraham called his servant to make preparations to go into the land of Moriah, the joy of the young Isaac when he learned that he was to accom- pany his father upon  the journey, the thoughtful precautions of Sarah, his mother, for his safety and welfare, and her tender provisions for his comfort and happiness. She told of the glad delight with which the boy rode by the side of his father during the first of the way, and of his weariness when after three days' travel they came within sight of Mount Moriah, and his father, lifting him off the ass, led him by the hand to its summit. She repeated the amazed question of Isaac, "'My father, behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt-offering a"Then the building of the altar, the binding of the child thereon with cords, the raised arm, the glittering knife-all ,    THE 1FULFTT LLED DREAM.   83 passed in vivid review before' the mental vision of Iddo; and it would seem that the angel voice which called from heaven, "Lay not thine hand upon the lad," had fallen audibly upon his ear, so earnestly did he listen to its heaven-approving tones, and sympathize in its message of joy. As Judith ceased, he quickly said, "More, my sister, thou shalt tell me now, of the vision of our father Jacob; then I will sleep, and perchance I too may dream of'the same angels that he saw." Then the clear voice of Judith described the path of Jacob from BeersIheba to Haran, and spoke of his heavenly musings, as when the sun was set he sat solitary beneath the pale light of stars. She told of the pil- low of stones, and of the sleep that cast its soft mantle over the patriarch as he laid his weary head thereon; and then portrayed that wondrous ladder, its foot upon the earth be-- neath, and its top towering mid the starry heights of heaven, with the white-winged   84    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. angels gliding over its mysterious surface, some approaching the earth as ministering spirits of mercy and love, and others return- ing from the same mission to the lofty gates of Paradise. As the soothing tale died upon the ear of Iddo, his own dreamy eyelids were half closed in slumber, and as Judith lifted her eyes from his face, she encountered the delighted gaze of a second listener in the per- son of a young Israelite, of tall figure and manly countenance, who, almost hidden by the rich foliage, had evidently heard with rare delight the narration of the angel story. "Ethan," exclaimed Judith in a reproach- ful tone, as the clear olive of her complexion borrowed a richer tint from the crimson tide that mounted to her face. "Nay, forgive me, Judith," said the young man in a voice of entreaty. "Far be it from me to trespass upon thee. I sought thee in the house and among the flocks, and found thee not. And as I came hither, how could I break with rude step the soft slumber that   THE FIULFTT TTt DREAM.   85 was falling on Iddo, as thou didst tell him of the sleep of our father Jacob?" Judith smiled reconciliation, and the two held converse on topics of mutual interest. More than a twelvemonth had passed since their betrothment, and Ethan pleaded that his father Gerar should ask permission of Hez- ron, that their nuptials might be celebrated itmmediately after the observance of the com- ing feast of tabernacles. "It shall be as tholu sayest, Ethan,' an-  swered Judith ingenuously; "but thou must dwell with us, for I cannot leave my young brother. Without me he would grieve and be desolate. Neither can I take him within the borders of Issachar. That would bereave my father, and bring him in sorrow to the grave." "It is well; all shall be as thou desirest," replied Ethan and before both, the scenes of' the gilded future stood out as on enchanted ground, with no cloud to shade their bright- ness, no discord to jar upon. their harmonies. c'   86    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. "The child sleepeth long, and a strong heat burneth upon his brow," remarked Judith, as the declining sun sank behind Tabor, and Iddo still slumbered. As she passed her hand over his forehead, he gave a sudden1 cry of grief, and slowly opened his eyes. GaziAg about him for a few moments with a wandering expres- sion, he' turneth to Judith and said with a smile: "I dreamed the dream that thou didst tell me, my sister. I saw the ladder reaching unto heaven, and my feet longed to go up thereon. But I could not reach it, for its foot came not quite to the earth. Many times did I try, but could not touch it even with my hands. Then a bright angel came down, and folding me beneath his wings, mounted swiftly on high. My heart was glad as I went up far, far into the blue heaven; but when I looked down to earth again, I saw thee, my sister, standing where I had stood when. the angel took me, and stretching forth thine arms in grief for my return. Then I cried out in sorrow, and awoke."   THE FULFTT LRT) DREAM.   87 "And didst thou not dream that thou didst come back to me?" asked Judith. And with- out waiting a reply, she added, "The chill of the evening cometh, and the child should be within the dwelling. Thou shalt carry him thither, Ethan, for he is weary and his feet tremble beneath him." On the morrow Iddo lay upon his' couch with the restless tossings of burning fever. His anxious father and sister moved not from his side, seeking by tenderest ministrations to relieve the beloved one, and striving to quell the desolating fears that darkened over their hearts. Days rolled on, but with morning light and evening shade, the disease pursued its swift course with unabated strength, as the lion hasteth to his prey. Now in the ravings of delirium, the sufferer bade Judith twine garlands that he might adorn the white goats. Now he stretched forth his hands unto the bright birds that he saw hovering over his head, and' anon he entreated his father to unbind him from the altar of burnt offering. I,   88    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. With touching lamentations and fast raining tears, and hands oft wrung in agony, Judith bowed over the bed of her young brother, who had been unto her as a son. Hezron fasted and clothed himself in sackcloth, and cried with a breaking heart unto the God of his fathers that the child might live. On the fifth day a long sleep folded the restless Iddo in its welcome embrace. Hezron and Judith remained in speechless silence, hushing every heart-beat as they sat by his couch, in the trembling balances of hope and fear. After long hours of watching, the child awoke. The light of returning reason shone in his radiant eyes, and his own bright smile beamed over his face as in days that were past. "I have waited long for thee, my sister," he said in reply to the fond kiss of Judith, "but now I cannot tarry because the Lord hath called me unto himself, that I may behold the glorious things of which Eliab hath spoken. Now kiss and bless me, my father, for I go to   THE . FULFTTIET) DREAM.   89 dwell forever with God." He looked upward with earnest, longing gaze, then turned his eyes upon his father and sister in a mute fare- well, and while yet they bent over him, the silver cord of life was loosed so gently that they perceived it not till he had already mounted the shining way he had traversed with the angels of his dream, and was folded in Abraham's bosom. As soon as Hezron was aware of Iddo's departure, by a strong effort he stilled his trembling fingers, and closed the child's eyes; and with his lips firmly compressed against the rushing tide of his sorrow, he calmly gav-e the kiss of parting after the Hebrew custom, which accorded these mournful privileges to the nearest relatives of the deceased. Then, in uncontrollable grief, the strong man fell upon the face of his child, and mourned for his only son in the utter aban- donment of heart-rending woe. Judith, with bitter weeping, still knelt by the couch, holding the lifeless hand of Iddo within her   90   TTHE YEAR OF JUBILEE. own, and it was long ere the attendants could prevail upon the stricken ones to leave their dead. At length Judith was led away into the apartment of the women. Seated upon a mat in the centre, with the women of the household gathered in a circle about her, and, in a yet wider circle, the neighbors and friends, who had come to the house of death. Judith mourned with the passionate demon- strations of Hebrew sorrow. She rent her garments, and tore her shining hair, lament- ing her lost one with wild words of saddest wailing. When she ceased, a responsive lamentation was taken up by her friends, descriptive of the au  and promise of the child, and of the bright hopes that had been cut off by his death. As this died away, the women of the household threw ashes upon their heads, rent their garments, and traversed the room with bitter cries of sor- row. At a given signal froin Judith, they again seated themselves about her; then another lamentation was uttered by the   THE FULFITLLED DREAM. '  91 friends of the household, calling forth simi- lar responses of grief, while Judith still re-. mained in the centre, wringing her hands in desolation, and sitting in sackcloth and ashes. The men sat upon the ground, in another apartment with Hezron, and with rent garments and uncovered heads, they mourned in silence. The body of Iddo was anointed with the fragrant and costly spikenard, and wrapped in fine linen with precious spices. When the days were accomplishedl that he should be buried, they carried him forth and laid him in the sepulchre which the-fathers of Hezron had built when they first possessed their inheritance in the land of Canaan. The members of the household, the hired mour- ners, and all who wished to testify their sympathy with the afflicted, joined in the long procession that, wailing and lamenting, followed the remains of Iddo to the tomb. There they laid him, upon his stony bed, which was strewn with .sweet odors, and H   92    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. covered his body with divers kinds of fra- grant spices. They then closed the door of the sepulchre with a stone, and the procession returned with a repetition of lamentation. Seven days of mourning were fulfilled after, as before, the burial of Iddo, as a proper testimony of grief for the death of the only son and heir of the prince of Ze- bulon. Every day the mourners went to the tomb of Iddo, to recount his dawning virtues, and to bewail his untimely end. During this time, the whole household of Hezron wore neither sandals, nor turbans, but went barefoot, still clothed in sackcloth and ashes. Neither was any food prepared within the dwelling, for the friends and neighbors of the afflicted brought choice luxuries and delicate viands, which they termed "the bread of mourning," and affec- tionately invited them to partake thereof. "Two little maidens wait in the outer court," said a servant of Judith, on the day after the burial of Iddo, "but I cannot pre-   THE FULFTTLTFD DREA.   '93 vail upon them to come in unto thee. They are Sarah, the daughter of Eliab, and Hannah, ,the daughter of Uri, the leper."- "I will go out unto them,"'answered Judith, rising, "for they are of a timid spirit, and they fear the people that are with me." The faces. of Hannah and Sarah already bore traces of long weeping, and as they be- held Judith, not as they had been wont, with garments soft and delicate, and her wealth of shining hair, in which they admiringly gloried, as a crown unto her head; but as a stricken mourner in the outward semblance of woe, the sight brought over them the sense of her heart's desolation with fresh vividness.' With bursting tears, Hannah fell at her feet, and dlung passionately to her coarse drapery of sackcloth, and Sarah bowed upon the ground with her face buried in her hands, while her slight frame quivered with the low, half- ismothered sobs that came up from the depths of her heart. Judith 'sank down between the two child-   "    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. ren, and with an arm about each, she silently mingled her tears with theirs of heartfelt sympathy. When the violence of Hannah's grief had somewhat spent itself, she lifted her head, and told of the last time she had seen Iddo. "It was but a few days after the latter rains," said she, "and as I went from thy bor- ders with the basket of food thou didst give for my father, I met Iddo beneath the oak tree, at the corner, of the lower vineyard. One of the vinedressers had dug there a deep hollow place, and Iddo had brought many stones thereto that he might wall it up for a wine-press. 'Wilt thou not stay and help me, Hannah?' said he, 'and when the grapes are ripe, we will press them herein, and thou shalt carry new wine unto thy mother, yea, and to thy father in the wilderness.'" "I beheld his face no more, after the day he-came unto our house with his father," said Sarah, with low, tremulous voice, encouraged to speak by perceiving the deep interest with which Judith' listened to Hannah's words.   THE FULFILLED DREAM.    95 "On that day he asked many things of my father. He talked of the angel that came unto Hagar in the wilderness, and he said, 'What thinkest thou, Eliab, would God send an angel to open a fountain of waters unto me, if I thirsted in the desert?' And when my father told him of Mount Sinai, when the Lord des- cended thereon unto Moses, he asked, 'Will my face also shine when I see God?' And yet, afterwards, when Eliab talked with ear- nest words concerning the coming of Shiloh, the glorious hope of our people, Iddo clasped his hands and said quickly, 'My father, my father, I have seen the glory of the stars which God hath set in the heavens, will not my joy be full when I behold the shining of the Star of Jacob ' " "And dost thou remember no more 2" askqd Judith with tearful eagerness. "Naught that I can repeat unto thee," answered Sarah, "yet my mother said he was as the lily of the valley, while he tarried with- in the dwelling. And I have not forgotten   96  \  THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. my father's words when the prince of Zebu- ion bade him farewell. 'Set not thine heart upon the child, neither bind up thy life with his. Thou, knowest that Enoch walked with God, and was not, for God took him.' Then my heart fell heavily -within me, because I knew' the meaning thereof, that Iddo's life would be short upon the earth." In their deep sympathy with Judith's sor- row, the children had almost forgotten their chief errand to her dwelling. "My mother beseecheth that thou wilt eat of the 'bread of mourning,' which she sendeth with many tears," said Hannah; and as she spake, she brought fortk from the door-way a covered dish, overspread with a napkin of fine white linen. Beneath the cover was a choice piece of the flesh of a young mountain roe, tempt- ingly roasted, with seasoning of savory herbs, and garnished round about with frag- rant citron blossoms,- reposing amid their darkly polished leaves of green. "The roe was taken near Lebanon," added Hannah, in   THE FULFTT,TiT) DREAM.   97 reply to Judith's thanks, "where of late my mother's brother went forth with his bow unto the chase." Then Sarah timidly opened her basket, and within stood the Tyrian jar of purple and gold which she had received from Iddo nearly two years before. The sight thereof touched afresh the springs of. Judith's grief, and again her tears flowed in bitter fullness. "Truly it is as my mother said, and-I am altogether foolish," said Sarah, with a quiver- ing lip, again covering the basket.  "Nay, I will gladly receive thy gift, Sarah," said Judith quickly. "Thiink not that I would thus turn away from thy kind- ness." "My mother prepared for thee delicate pottage of turtle doves," said Sarah, still pressing her hand upon her basket cover, as if to shut from sight the cause of Judith's tears, "and when it was ready cooked, I said I will take it unto the house of mourning in mine own beautiful jar. And my mother   98    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. answered, 'The thing is not well, because it will bring back the joyful days that are past, unto her who is now sorely smitten, and it will stir anew the depths of her sorrow.' But I pleaded earnestly, saying, 'Surely there is no other dish within the house worthy to set before the princess of Zebulon, and if it call Iddo to her remembrance, would she not faii behold once more the image of his face, as in th'e hour when he gave it unto me, for he was exceeding beautiful! , ,So my mother kindly granted my request, and I fell upon her neck and kissed her. Yet, truly, now I see that my own heart deviseth folly." "Judge not thyself so harshy, little maiden," answeted Judith.  "Thou hast spoken truly, for I would fain garner up all memories of him who hath been the joy of my heart, seeing I have naught else remain- ing to me. As for the jar thou hast brought, filled with dainty meat, it shall be placed be- fore me, when I eat food, and I will be served therefrom. And when the .days of mourning   THE FULFTLET) DREAM.-  99 are past, I will send again with thanks and blessings unto thy house." "Wilt thou grant that we may sit beneath the shadow of the fig tree until the mourners go forth," asked Hannah, "for we would fain follow them unto the sepulchre?" "It pleaseth me well,' answered Judith. ' Have ye both walked the long way hither barefoot 2" she inquired in a tone of surprise, as she perceived the children go forth from the porch without sandals. "Yea, truly," answered Hannah with a mingled expression of sorrow and self-sacri- fice, as touching as it was beautiful. "It is nearly as far as the well of Elon, whither I daily carry bread unto my father, yet thinest thou that we would put shoes upon our feekduring the days of mourning for the only son of thine house." Every hour brought similar proofs of thoughtful kindness from the neighbors and friends of Hezron. But with all the allevia- tions of sorrow which it was in human power   100    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. to impart, the days dragged heavily through their slowly moving course till the multiplied ceremonies of Hebrew mourning were accom- plished. And when the household returned once more to its ordinary routine of life, all familiar objects seemed overshadowed by set- tied gloom, and all familiar sounds were but echoes of every heart's burden, "the child is not." t '             *      -   CTAPlTE  VI. THE BETROTHAL BROKEN. IN the cool of the evening, several weeks after the, death of Iddo, Hezron walked to and fro upon the house-top, plainly. revealing, by his absent manner, that his thoughts were of absorbing interest. Suddenly starting from his reverie, with an expression of de- terminate resolution, he spoke to a maid ser- vant in the court below, and bade her call Judith to his presence. "My daughter," said Hezron, when Judith had obeyed the hasty summons-but an un- conquerable aversion to utter the words he would have spoken sealed his lips, and he was silent. "Here am I, my father; what wouldst thou have at my hands?" inquired Judith. 9*       101   102  - THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. "Sit here at my feet, Judith," answered Hezron; "for I have somewhat to say unto thee. Thou knowest, my daughter," he re- sumed, after another reluctant pause, "that Ethan, the son of Gerar, of the tribe of Issa- char, to whom thou - hast been betrothed, asked of me, the very evening that the dread sickness seized thy young brother, that the first day after the Feast of Taber- nacles should be the beginning of the festi- val of thy nuptials. I granted him his desire. but instead of the house of feasting, the Lord hath called us to dwell in the house of mourn- ing. Since that time Ethan hath tarried in our court, and walked with thee upon the house-top, as in days past; but doth he not remember that he is of the tribe of Issachar, and dost not thou know, my daughter, that now Ethan can never be thy husband?" "Forgive me, my father," answered Ju- dith, "but I understand not what thou say- est." "Art thou taught in the law of Moses?"   THE BETROTHAL BROKEN.   103 demanded Hezron, "and dost thou not know that since thou, a daughter, by the death of Iddo, thy brother, hast come to the possession of an inheritance in Israel, thou mayest not marry one of the sons of another tribe? only in thine own tribe art thou permitted  to marry, that the land which hath been apportioned by lot to the children of Israel, go not from tribe to tribe." "But, my father, hast thou not thyself sol- emnly betrothed thy daughter. unto Ethan, that I should become his only, among the sons of Israel?" pleaded Judith. "Hast thou not, by a father's blessing, made sacred the covenant with which I bound myself to him unto whom my heart hath been long united? Why, then, should I not pay the vows which I have made?"  "The death of thy brother hath disan- nulled thy covenant," answered Hezron. "Henceforth thou art no more the betrothed of Ethan." Judith answered not, but buried her face   104    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. in her hands, and, after a short silence, lIez- ron added, "Many times have I striven to say these things unto thee, but I have put them from me, day after day, because I could not find it in my heart to yet add more unto thy grief, Judith. But this day have I been admonished to neglect the thing no longer, see- ing Zebal, the head of one of the chief fami- lies of Zebulon, hath entreated me for the sake of Bela, his son" "Nay, my father,-" exclaimed Judith, sud- denly starting to her feet, while all the ardor and determination of a strong purpose burned upon her cheek, and flashed from her dark eye, " if I become not the wife of Ethan, the son of Gerar, then will I bind myself by a vow to remain forever a virgin in Israel." "Stay thy rash words," interposed Hezron. "Art thou not a daughter of youth, yet in thy father's house. Thy vows are naught, maiden, for by the law of Moses, thy father may dis- allow them in the same hour they were uttered. Rebecca, the wife of my youth, is   THE BETROTHAL BROKEN.    105 not, and Iddo is not," groaned Hezron, with an expression of bitter suffering, " and if thou, my daughter, bereave me of thyself by going astray from the law of Moses, I am in- deed bereft. In the morning my soul shall say, 'Would God it were evening,' and in the evening it shall cry out in bitterness, 'Would God it were morning."' Sympathy for her heart-stricken father, for a moment overcame every other emotion in Judith's soul, and prostrating herself before him, she said, "Forgive me, my father, judge menot so harshy; the-law of the God of our fathers is written on my heart, ' Honor thy father and mother.' In whatsoever else thou dost command me, I will obey; but oh, my father," she continued, while tears fell fast on her folded hands, "I entreat thee, promise me not in marriage unto any of the sons of Zebulon, for my heart hath been given unto Ethan, and unto him it is united for- ever.  Long on that night did Judith weep bit-   106     THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. terly on the bosom of the faithful Leah.  Her grievous affliction in the death of her young brother whom   she had  so ardently loved; grief for the loss of the precious sympathy and counsels of her mother, whom she still remembered with the most devoted affection; and the sudden blighting of her bright hopes of future happiness, all combined to fill her soul with profoundest sorrow, and she refused to be comforted. It was not till the first cock crowing, announced the approach of morning that her passionate grief seemed spent by its own violence, and as she grew calmer, Leah sang  soothingly short and   unpremeditated strains of Hebrew melodies. "Oh that I were as in months past, As in the days when God preserved me; When his candle shined upon my head,  And by his light I walked through darkness. And now my soul is poured out upon me; The days of affliction have taken hold upon me, My harp also is turned to mourning; And my organ into the voice of them that weep. d                 t*   THE BETROTHAL BROKEN.     107 Touching the Almighty, we cannot find him out; He is excellent in power and in judgment, And in plenty of justice: He will not afflict. But none saith, ' Where is my Maker, Who giveth songs in the night; Because thou shalt forget thy misery, And remember it as waters that pass away.'" "As waters that pass away. And-remem- ber it as waters that pass away." Thus again and, again were repeated   the low flowing cadences of the song, like the lulling voice of murmuriag streams, gliing softly unto their parent sea.  And as the dreamy fancies of sleep grew  more and more distinct to the mind of the worn and sorrowing maiden, she saw all her troubles passing away upon the the bosom of those ever-gliding waters, and murmured grateful words of delighted peace in the midst of her gentle slumbers. On the morrow, when Ethan came to the dwelling of Hezron, as was his wont, he found the master of the house alone in the court.  Having requested audience of the   108    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. young man, Hezron briefly, ,but kindly, re- peated to him the statute of Moses, whereby his marriage with Judith was forbidden, and the consequent disannulling of the covenant of betrothment that lee had made for his daughter. Days and weeks passed away. One bright afternoon Judith had passed the boundary of her father's domains, and strayed across the' plain of Esdraelon, till she reached the foot of Tabor. When she had last 'stood upon this spot, Iddo was 'by her side, and remem- bering a small fragrant flower, which had then greatly pleased the child, she slowly ascended the winding path which led up the mount in pursuit of it. Musingly she went on her way, so occupied by her own thoughts as to be unconscious of her steps,. till suddenly lifting her eyes, she found her- self to have gained an eminence, whence the country around lay spread out' in a vast and beautiful landscape. So lovely was the scene, and so rich in promise of vision from Yand so rich   THE BETROTHAL BROKEN.   109 the top of the mount, that Judith immedi- diately determined to complete the ascent. She quickened her pace, and at length gladly seated herself to rest upon the level plain that formed the summit of the moun- tain. Never did poet's dream, read out in song or story picture a scene more enchanting in its mingled loveliness and grandeur, than that which now gladdened the admiring eyes of the. Hebrew maiden. Extending far about  the base of the mount, lay the spacious and beautiful plains of Esdraelon and Galilee, watered by the branches of the Kishon, flow- ing on pure and clear as the silver streams of paradise. On the south and southwest rose in grandeur Carmel, the hills of Samaria, and the high mountains of Gilboa; on the north, the snow-capped peaks of Lebanon seemed sublimely to rest against the clear blue sky; to the east smiled the lake of Gen- nessareth, while far to the distant west might be discerned the waters of the Mediterranean 10.   "O    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. reflecting in glory the beams of the declining sun. Judith had retraced her steps, and pro- ceeded half-way down the mountain; when, turning a somewhat abrupt angle in the path, she suddenly discovered a figure reclnining against a tree, which, though the face was turned from her view, and the head bowed towards the ground, she instantly recognized as that of Ethan,-the son of Gerar. The young man turned at the rustle of her footsteps, and, as the expression of amaze- ment gave place to that of joy upon his fea- tures, he, exclaimed-"How blessed are my eyes that they behold thee once more," and, in the same breath, said earnestly, "Now tell me, what saith thine own heart, Judith  Is it right that this law of inheritance, of which they speak, should put asunder hearts which the God of our fathers hath united?" "My heart pleadeth even as thou sayest," replied Judith, "but I know the law of Mo- ses cannot err, and the thing is right."   THE BETROTILAL BROKEN.   1 "Then thou wilt not cast thy lot with me, Judith, and leave thy wealth of lands and flocks?"' "-Hear me, Ethan," interrupted Judith, as her figure assumed a new dignity, and her hand waved towards her own rich inheri- tance, reposing in mellowed light beneath the slanting beams of the western sun, "Hear me, son of Gerar. What are fields and flocks to me? My life is not bound up in storehouse, or wine press, or olive yards. These things I could fling aside, as a cast-off garment, for the home of my heart is with thee. But, for a maiden's love, should the law of dMoses be broken, and should I, whom my father Hezron hath brought up in tender- ness and delicateness, dishonor his name in Israel, and bring down his grey hairs with sorrow to the grave? Nay, Ethan, I marvel that thou shouldst speak the thing in my ear." "Nevertheless," answered Ethan, "I will entreat of Deborah, the judge of Israel, that   "2    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. she may ordain a statute, by which the lands of the prince of Zebulon shall be held in his own tribe for an everlasting possession. I will ask that she make a decree, that neither myself nor my sons, to the tenth generation, may possess so much as a foothold therein. At the least," he continued decisively, as he read on the incredulous face of Judith, and felt in his own heart, the probability that such petitions would prove unavailing, "at the least, I will plead before her that the solemn covenant of our betrothment be not broken." On the third day from his meeting with Judith, Ethan reached the grove between Ramah and Bethel, the council chamber of Israel. In the midst sat Deborah, with the wisdom of the prophetess, and the stern gravity of the judge, impartially administering justice to the tribes of her people. "Her canopy of state was the shade of the palm tree, her rule of judgment the law and the  testimony of the living God, her aim and end   THE BETROTHAL BROKEN.   113 the glory of God and the good of her people, her reward the respect of a grateful nation, the admiration of future generations, the smiles of approving heaven. What are, compared to these, the ermine robe, the ivory sceptre, the chair of state, the glittering diadem!" At length came Ethan's turn to gain audi- ence of the prophetess, and she listened pa- tiently to his statement of the grievances for- which he sought redress. ( The prince of the tribe of Zebulon hath said well unto thee," answered Deborah. "By the law which the Lord hath ordained for his people, the covenant of which thou speakest was naught in the same hour when unto her whom thou hadst betrothed therefel an inheritance in Israel. If thou hast thought that I should diminish aught from the law, that; hath been revealed to Moses upon the burning: mount, or add aught thereto, thou hast de- vised foolish things in thy heart. I speak not; unto thee either less .or more. Wherefore, O son of Gerar, give ear to the words which 10*   "4    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. are written in the book of the law." Then, rising with an air of queenly majesty, she repeated, "This is the thing which the Lord doth command concerning the daughters of Zelophehad. Let them marry to whom they think best, only to the family of the tribe of their fathers shaW they marry. And every daughter that possesseth an inheritance in any tribe of the children of Israel, shall be wife unto one of the family of the tribe of her father, that the children of Israel may en- joy every man the inheritance of his fathers. Neither shall the inheritance remove from one tribe to another tribe." She paused for a moment, and then, with the light of poetic fire gleaming from her eye, and the inspira- tion of prophetic wisdom clothing, with wild sublimity, the terrific import of her words, ,she continued, "But it shall come to pass, if thou wilt not take heed unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to do all his commandments " and his statutes which I command thee this ,day, that all these curses shall come upon  'I   THE BETROTHAL BROKEN.   115 thee and overtake thee: Cursed shalt thou be in the city, and cursed shalt thou be in the field; cursed shalt be thy basket, and thy store; cursed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and cursed shalt thou be when thou goest out. The Lord shall smite thee with a consumption, and with a fever, aad with an inflammation, and with an extreme burning, and with the sword, and with blast- ing, and with mildew; and they shall pursue thee till thou perish. And the heaven that is over thy head shall be brass, and the earth that is under thee shall be iron." Strong grew the conflict of grief and indig- nation in Ethan's heart, as he turned his steps towards his own place, but there remained no resource for the young Israelite in the face of the law and the testimony. I    '    '  i   CHAPTER VI. DAYS OF GLADNESS. IT was in the fifth month that Ethan had presented his petition before the prophetess at Ramah.   The  seventh  month  following ushered in the grand sabbatical year of the Hebrews, the year of Jubilee.*   In the tenth day of the seventh month, the trumpet was blown throughout the land, from the borders of Ammon to the shore of the Great Sea, from Dan to Beersheba. Jordan heard the voice at his parent fountain, and caught its repeated echoes along his path of living green, till in *The author has deviated from the established chro- nology, by placing the year of Jubilee during the adminis-  tration of Deborah. The fourth Jubilee after entering the  land of Canaan, occurred about nine years before Deborah became judge of Israel.  "6   DAYS OF GLADNESS.    1-4 l the majestic fullness of the glad chorus, he poured his swelling floods into the waters of the Salt Sea. The mountains clapped their hands, and the little hills rejoiced on every side, as the listening heights of Judah, trans- mitted the glad sound to Carmel and Tabor, and the lofty peaks of Lebanon answered responsive to the note of joy, Forty-nine years had passed since last the trumpet of Jubilee had sounded through the land, and now in the fiftieth year, it proclaimed liberty to the bondman, plenty to the impoverished, home to the exile. The servant, whose long years of captivity had slowly fulfilled their lingering course, leaped at the first note of the Jubilee trumpet, for his chains of servitude were snapt asunder, and he was a free man in Israel. The unfortunate, who had been forced to part with his lot in the land, and who in sadness of spirit had given bread to his wife and little ones of the gleanings of the harvest- field and vintage, once more dwelt in his own home, and sat beneath his own vine and fig?   "8    TtHE YEAR OF JUBILEE. tree. The orphan shouted in gladness, and the widow's heart sang for joy; for to them fell the inheritance which 'n an adverse hour had passed from the husband and father. Even he who, pressed by the gripe of debt or of poverty, had sold his possession and gone forth to dwell in a foreign clime, might return to his own inheritance in the year of Jubilee; or, if the exile had died in a strange land, then could his children gather in the courts of the ancient dwelling of their father, and sit beneath the shadow of trees planted by his hands. It was a year of rest, hallowed and holy unto the Lord. In it the husbandmen tilled not the ground, neither did the sower sow his seed, nor the vine-dresser prune his vines. Even the grain which sprang up of itself was not reaped, nor the spontaneous fruits of the earth gathered. In the previous year, the land waxed rich in the superabun- dance of increase wherewith the Lord had blessed it, so that in the Jubilee its barns were full of plenty, and its presses burst out     DAYS OF GLADNESS.    119 with new wine.  Throughout the circling months of the Jubilee, Canaan folded her hands from labor in a joyful sabbath rest, and called upon her children throughout the length and breadth of her borders to celebrate the sacred festival, and to send up to the God of the Jubilee, as the fragrant burning of per- petual incense, joy and praise, thanksgiving and the voice of melody. In the early morning of the second day after the opening of the Jubilee, a little party was slowly advancing on the road which wound among the low hills north of Mount Tabor. The prominent figure was Judith, borne along by a milk white ass which quickly moved its soft eyes to the sound of her voice, and yielded ready obedience to her gentlest touch. By her side walked Hannah, holding cautiously upon her arm two beauti- ful garlands, and talking with fast-flowing words of chastened gladness, for she knew that Judith was not of a joyful spirit as in former days. Behind them followed a ser-   120    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. vant, having in charge two fat kine of Bashan, two goats with their kids, and a ewe with her twin white lambs. "Surely the house of Eliab is now afar off, and when I visit Sarah the way will be a weariness unto me," said Hannah, as furlong after furlong was added to their course. "Nevertheless thou wilt rejoice that Sarah henceforth dwelleth in her father's inherit ance" replied Judith, "and that will nake thee light of foot as a young roe." "Surely the lambs are weary," exclaimed Hannah, looking backward; "Simeon hath taken one in his bosom, and I will carry the other." And hanging her garlands for safe keeping on the long, slender ears of the ass, she folded the other lamb in her arms, and resumed her place by the side of Judith, fol- lowed closely by the ewe, who kept strict watch of Hannah's charge, leaving the other- lamb to the long-tried care of the faithful shepherd. At length the place of destination appeared   DAYS OF GLAMEDSS.    121 in sight, a small but substantial dwelling, sheltered on the west by a small hill, which was devoted to the cultivation of vines, and deeply shaded by the foliage of surrounding trees, among which were the palm, the pome-  granate, and the fig tree. Hannah had already adorned the white lambs with their destined garlands, and danced in gleeful joy over their beauty, as they frisked sportively by the side of their dam. The approach of the party was evidently not discovered from within the dwelling, and as Judith drew near she alighted from off the ass, and advanced to the porch of the house. Sounds of busy labor were within, and- hasty footsteps sped to and fro. The little maid, Sarah, opened the door unto Judith's knock of admission, but as she recognized her guest, her glad face lighted up with a new joy, and forgetting to bid her enter, she ran back with the tidings, "Oh, my mother, the daughter of Hezron hath come to rejoice with us ;" then as quickly returning, she went forth to greet Hannah, unto whom ".   122    TH YEAR OF JUBILEE. her soul was knit in all the warmth of childish friendship. "Thrice welcome in the name of Abra- ham," exclaimed Zipporah, hastening to the door-way, and she warmly seized Judith's hands, and kissed her upon either cheek. "Praises for the joy of the Jubilee," answered Judith. "May it be multiplied seven-fold unto thee and thine." "Thy prayer is already granted," responded Zipporah. "Is it not a seven-fold blessing that I dwell once more in my own house, and grind corn upon mine own mill-stones, and train vines upon iine own walls. Even while I was an alien from home, my heart hath ever said, 'Peace be within this house,' for here did I come a joyful wife in Israel, here I gloried over my only babe, who was beautiful as the rose of Sharon, here through the long days of summer " "Oh, my mother 1 my mother!" interrupted Sarah, rushing into the house with her face all radiant with wonder and delight, and a   DAYS OF GLANESS.     123 hurried eagerness of manner strangely con- trasting with her usual calmness. "Thou canst not believe what gifts Judith hath brought unto thee. Such comely milch kine of Bahan and goats, and for myself-haste and come forth that th6u mayest see my beautiful twin lambs." "( My father entreateth that thou wilt accept an offering from his flocks and herds because of the joy of the Jubilee," said Judith, in answer to the amazed and inquiring looks of Zipporah, " and he bade me choose therefrom to bring unto thee." "What words shall I take unto myself, and how shall I return thanks unto thy father, or praise the Lord who hath sent thee?" said Zipporah with full tears of gratitude, when she had beheld Judith's most acceptable gift. It needeth no thanks," answered Judith, "seeing the giving is more blessed than the receiving." "Truly it is as thou sayest," exclaimed THannah, " for in that thou didst permit me to   124    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. come hither with thee, and to adorn the lambs, and to tell Sarah of thy present with mine own lips, it hath been a greater joy unto me than to receive them for myself." "Nevertheless,"' answered Sarah, "thou oughtest to have one of these choice lambs so exceeding white, and delicate, and I will give" "Speak not of the thing," exclaimed Han- nah. "There are already ten sheep and four lambs in our fold, which my brother Timri leadeth daily to green pastures. We have also two kine, though they be not of Bashan, the same that my father left unto us, when he ,departed from the people. Alas," continued the child, as all the gladness faded suddenly from her face at the mention of her father, "Alas, that there/s no Jubilee for. the leper." "When will thy husband be brought hither?" asked Judith of Zipporah, "and is there aught I can do to help thee prepare for his coming?" "All things are now ready," answered Zip-   DAYS OF GLADNESS.    t. 5 porah, "save that I will grind some fresh  wheat for -cakes, and prepare wine mingled ; with spices, that Eliab may be refreshed after his journey. I an looking for his com- ing speedily, for I see by the shadow of the palm tree, that it draweth near the heat of the day. Behold the place I have chosen for his couch," she continued, pointing to a cool retreat on the north of the dwelling cofi- pletely overshadowed by the branches of a luxuriant fig tree. "Under that tree we once dwelt in gladness, and gave no heed unto adversity." While Zipporah was thus busied in house- hold cares, Judith reclined in the cool place prepared for Eliab, and her own sadness of heart seemed more impressive than ever be- fore, in contrast with the congratulations and thanksgivings that she knew were resounding through the length and breadth of the land. "What is the Jubilee unto me," she said in her heart, " can it give unto me my mother? Can it bring back Iddo from the gravel "*   126    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE, Can it restore unto me him whom my soul loveth?"  While thus she mused, Hannah and Sarah left their care of the lambs and the kids, and ran forth to meet Eliab, whose coming they discerned in the distance. He lay upon his bed which was borne by four men, who car- ried him with tenderest care, and at length, with glistening eyes of sympathy, set him down beneath his own fig tree. Eliab spake not for his spirit was fainting within him by reason of heat, and weariness, and pain, but he knew that his couch rested upon his own land, he heard the voices of his wife and child in his own inheritance, and the warm congratulations of the neighbors who had borne him thither, he felt the cool- ing breath of the breeze-stirred -fig leaves as they fanned his brow, and he listened to the soft murmuring rustle with which they welcomed him to the home of his fathers.  As the spirit of Eliab returned unto him, his countenance assumed its usual expression \     ,    it, DAYS OF. GLADNESS.           iij of spiritual peace, and lifting his hand up- ward, he said, "Give ear, O ye heavens, and I will speak; And hear, O earth, the words of my mouth. Because I will publish the name of the Lord: l Ascribe ye greatness unto our God. For the Lord's portion is his people; Jacob is the lot of his inheritance. The beloved of the Lord shall dwell in safety by him; And the Lord shall cover him all the day long." And after he had thus uttered the first words of his lips in praise, and had drank the wins of refreshing, which Zipporah had brought unto him, he slept long and peace- fully, even as a wandering child that hath come back to his mother's bosom. The heat of the sunbeams waxed exceed- ing strong -as it drew near noon-tide, and the cattle lowed long and heavily for the drawing of water. Eliab suddenly opened his eyes at the sound, and it was repeated near his very dwelling, bringing back a seven-fold   128     THE YEA  OF JUBILEE. fullness of memories of the days that were past. And now Sarah, who had been eagerly watching for her father's awakening, placed her two lambs upon his couch and laid his hand upon the one and the other, that he might feel their wool so soft and fine, and pro- ceeded rapidly to acquaint him with the glad tidings she had been so impatient to reveal unto him. "Blessed be Hezron," responded Eliab. "Blessed of the Lord be his land, For the precious things of heaven, and for the dew, And for the precious things brought forth by the sun, And for the precious things put forth by the moon, And for the precious things of the earth and the fullness thereof. And for the good will of Hipl that dwelt in the bush." "It is but a token wherewith my father biddeth thee welcome to thine inheritance," said Judith in reply to Eliab's blessings and expressions of gratitude. "Truly the Lord hath dealt with me as with his  servant Job," remarked   Eliab,  ? ' *]4   DAYS OF GLADLNESS    129   i "whose latter end was blessed more than his i beginning. He maketh me to dwell in the possessions of my fathers; he feedeth me with the finest of the wheat, he anointeth me with oil, he strengtheneth me with wine. Moreover, though I still abide in a house of darkness and pain, yet the Lord visiteth me continually. Yea, oftentimes he cometh unto me gloriously, as on the wings of the morning, and lighteth up my soul within, as with the rising of the sun. So shall he yet arise unto his people. So shall his glory shine forth from the east to the west, and the whole earth shall rejoice in a perpetual Jubilee."   CHAPTER VIII. JOYFUL TIDINGS. IT was likewise on the second day of the Jubilee that the fleet steps of a wild ass bore its rider rapidly over the plains of the Kishon, swept through a pathway beneath the lofty cypress trees, and slackened the tread of its strong, stout hoofs in the court yard of the prince of Zebulon. The rider flung himself from his panting beast, and hurriedly passed through the porch into the court of the dwell- ing. Staying not to ungird the garments from his loins, nor loose the sandals from his feet, pausing not even for the courteous forms  of Hebrew salutation, he exclaimed, "I am also of the tribe of Zebulon." "Thou art as one that mocketh," answered Hezron calmly, as if compassionating the folly 180   JOY'UL TIDINGOS.    " of the speaker; for it was Ethan, the son of Gerar. "Nay," replied Ethan, as he opened a small roll of parchment in confirmation of his words, "1 have gained my birthright, and received my possession. The Year of Jubilee hath brought me a name and an inheritance among the sons of Zebulon," and as he placed the parchment in the hand of Hezron he inquired, "May I behold the face of Judith?" "She hath gone forth before the rising of the sun," answered Hezron, "even beyond the rock of Zebal, that she may welcome the household of Eliab, who this day returneth, unto his inheritance." "I also go thither," said Ethan, turning to depart. "Not until the cool of the day," remon- strated Hezron. "The way is long, and thou hast already come from beyond. the borders of Issachar, and the sun burneth as a fur- nace." "It is naught," answered the young man,   132    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. /' "neither heat nor distance can stay my steps until I bring Judith the tidings that I am of Zebulon." An hour had passed away ere Gerar, of the tribe of Issachar, who had started with Ethan upon his journey, entered the court of Hezron. Having exchanged greeting with the master of the dwelling, and received the hospitalities which were wont to be minis- tered to a Hebrew guest, he formally com- menced an explanation of the statements which Ethan had previously uttered. "Twenty-five years have passed," said Gerar, "since I took to wife, Rachel, the sister of Caleb, of the tribe of Zebulon, a maiden comely to look upon. The inheri- tance of Caleb lay upon the borders of the sea, so his eyes looked upon ships and his heart went out after merchandise. At length, that he might multiply gold and silver, he sold his possession in the land of Canaan, and dwelt in the city of Tyre. Now the soul of Rachel, my wife, clave unto Caleb, her               .'e   JOY?'UL TIuINGS.    133 brother, and greatly did she long after him, now that he was in a strange land. So I lis- tened to the words of Rachel, and went also and dwelt in Tyre. Now Caleb had married a wife of the daughters of his own tribe,' and while we were yet in Tyre, she brought unto him her first-born son. But while he rejoiced at the birth of the young child, a pestilence seized him and he went down to the grave. His wife pined for his departure, and was soon gathered to her husband. And it came to pass, that when Caleb and his wife were dead, that my wife, Rachel said unto me, 'I will take the young child, my brother's son, and will nourish him up with mine own son, who lieth in my bosom.' And I answered, 'The thing pleaseth me well.' But the eyes of my son were hidden from the light, while he was yet an infant of days, and I hastened to depart from the land which had been unto us the house of bitterness. Then Rachel spake unto me, eaying, 'The son of my brother shall be thy son, instead of thy son 12   134    THE TEAR OF JUBILEE. who hath died in the land of Tyre. Neither shalt thou tell thy kinsmen and neighbors of the tribe of Issachar, that the child is not thine own offspring. Thou shalt say unto him, 'my son,' and he shall call thee, 'my father,' when he goeth out, and when he cometh in. So I took the young child, and Rachel my wife, and returned into the land of Canaan. For a great price did I redeem my possession, for it yet lacked twenty-two years of the Jubilee; but what was silver and gold unto me, if I might but dwell in the land of my fathers. So I have brought up Ethan, the son of my wife's brother, in my own house, as my own son. Neither have I chosen- to tell him of his birthright within the bor- ders of Zebulon, till the year of Jubilee should give it unto him for a free possession. In months past, my heart hath grieved for the young man, in that he hath afflicted his soul for the sake of Judith, thy daughter, but I said within my heart, "the Jubilee cometh on apace." Then shall the son of my adoption   JOYFUL TIDINGS.    135 bring within his hand a dowry, worthy of the  daughter of the prince of Zebulon. Now,  therefore," continued Gerar, "if thou wilt deal kindly and truly with my nephew, and wilt renew with him the covenant which hath been broken by the death of thy young son, I will pay thee for thy daughter a thou- sand shekels of silver." "I will add them unto her dowry," answered Ilezron; " but what is that betwixt thee and me. Hath not the Lord blessed me with silver and gold, and multiplied my flocks and herds abundantly? I know well that the love of the son of Caleb for my daughter hath been as that of our father Jacob unto Rachel, and he only hath found favor in her eyes, among all the sons of Israel. Thou hast com- forted my smitten heart by thy coming, for now I know that the Lord hath not utterly forsaken me, because he hath appointed me a son-in-law of the tribe of Zebulon. This even- ing, Judith shall come within the court and thou shalt hear the :wqrds of her own mouth," thou,shalther .   136    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. The evening star trembled in the west, as Judith and Ethan rode along their leisurely way, among, the low hills of the northern bounds of Zebulon, and the sons of Orion had mounted high in their shining way through the everlasting circles of the north, when, in the court of Hezron, they lifted up their eyes unto the heavens, and'in the presence of kin- dred and friends renewed the covenant of their espousals. The day of marriage was postponed many, months, because bridal festivities would be but a grief of mind unto Hezron, who still mourned bitterly for his only son; and instead of its celebration at the approaching Feast of Tabernacles, as at' first designed, it was appointed in the ensuing spring time, two weeks before the Feast of Pentecost. After the latter rains had clothed Canaan in living green, and the unreaped harvest of the Jubilee was dropping its rich plenty again into her bosom, and the upspringing flowers were opening-their eyes of softest beauty, and   137 Jo, j UL TIDINGS.  the singing streams were dancing merrily  from hill-side and mountain-top, the female companions of Judith assembled about the dwelling of Hezron, and blended the melody of glad voices with the music of the lyre, as they sang the praises of bridegroom and bride. The seven days of nuptial festivity were each marked by some new expression of rejoicing, and on the seventh day the com- panions of Judith arrayed her for her mar- riage. They braided her raven hair, tastefully arranged its heavy shining bands, and poured costhest perfumes upon her head. They clothed her in robes of the finest texture, and most brilliant color. They disposed the grace- ful fall of her richly embroidered veil, and set upon her head a crown of jewels, rejoicing in the perfection of beauty which they gave unto their adorning. At an appointed hour, Judith; led by her maidens, and Ethan, conducted by his attend- ants, met in the court, where Hezron solemnly 12*    138    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. gave the bride to her husband, and blessed them, saying, "The God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, be with you, and make his face to shine upon you. May your house be built up like the house of Jacob, our father, and may your seed possess the gate of your ene- mies." Many years had passed away. Hezron was reclining beneath the shadow of an over- hanging vine, in the mellow light of sunset. Upon his head grey hairs were mingled here and there with the dark locks of manhood. but his form was yet unbowed, his eye un-. dimmed, and his voice still held increasing sway over the sons of Zebulon. And now an expression of quiet, heartfelt happiness was written on his face, as he watched the sports of a band of merry)' children, who were dancing hither and thither in wild delight, and shouting. loud in their unrestrained mirth. Ethan and Judith were standing upon the housetop, and talking together in low words   JOYFUL TIDINGS.    139 of gladness, as they looked down on the scene below, and beheld, with joy and pride, the beautiful group of their six sons and two daughters. As the glow of sunset melted into twilight, the new moon, first faintly discerned, then assuming a distinct and perfect outline, hung a little above the western horizon. Men, scattered upon surrounding hills and emi- nences had been watching for its appearance, and as they perceived it, one called to another, "The new moon, it is hallowed." "It is hallowed," was the responsive reply, and the joyful blast of the trumpet pro- claimed the morrow to be the Feast of the New Moon. ' How doth Israel rejoice in her stivals, said Judith, as the trumpet notes, softened by distance, were borne to the ear on the still evening air. "Tho- sayest truly," answered Ethan. "The people delight in the oft-returning Feast of the New Moon, and lift up their hearts in   "O    THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. adoring praise at the Feast of the Passover. They sing in thanksgiving for the fruits of the land at the Feast of Harvest, and wave palms of triumphant gladness at the Feast of the Tabernacles. But there is no joy" Judith quickly turned her eyes upon her husband, and as the thoughts of both flew simultaneously back to the past, with united voices they exclaimed, "There is no joy in Israel like the joy of the YEaR OF JUBILEE'. '    e THE END O *      -   SUNDAY SCHOOL BOOKS, PUBUSHED BY SHELDON, BLAKEMAN & CO.  ROSE MORTON'S JOURNAL for January. 18mo. 134 pages. Cloth. Price, 25 cents. CLEMENTINA'S    1IRROR; or, Six Glim   Ses of Life. 18mo. 200 pages. Cloth. Price, 30 cents. With three Illustrations. THE YEAR OF JUBILEE. By Mrs. Maria T. Richards, author of "Life in Israel;" "Life in Judea," &c. 18mo. 140 pages. -Cloth. Price, 25 cents. THE  PIONEER    PRiACHER : an Autobiog- raphy. Edited by Pierre. 18mo. 222 pages. Cloth. Price, 30 cents. "TTLE  GRANILT Av or, the New Hampshire Boy. 18mo. 80 pages. Cloth. Price, 20 cents. QUIET THOUGHTS FOR QUIET HOURS. 18mo. 197 pages. Cloth. Price, 25 cents. MM nTn "MaMPHUR XS    NDLY APPEALS. REPRODUCED FROM THE COPY IN THE HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LIBRARY FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION    
         
       
   
