
    ----CITATION----
        Sauzade, John S., (1828-). Garret Van Horn, or, The Beggar on Horseback .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7699
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Garret Van Horn, or, The beggar on horseback 
            
               I

OR

E~A N HORSEBACK.
DY
JOIIX S. SAIJZADE.,
/
/
NI~W YORK:
* Garleton, Publisher, ~1~ Broadway.
RELATE 1~UDD &amp; CABLETO~.)
M DCCC LXIII.

/


CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1882, by
J~1)HN 8. SAUZADE,
- In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York.
95~

1~. ORAIGHEAD,
Printer, Stereo~yper, and Eleotrotyper,
5I~ ~, UUC 01 (cuire ~'StECt.

I

Mill Kill Jacob, *
CHAPTER II.
Some Account of the Van horn Family,
CHAPTER III.
Mg. Criunbie's Lyceum, *
CHAPTER 1V.
A. Depeyster &amp; Co.,  *        *
CHAPTER V.
Uncle Garret,    .   .
CHAPTER VI.
Doctor Rose, .  .    .
CHAPTER VII.
I Incur Disgrace, *
CHAPTER VIII.
Where the Sea Led Me,.
CHAPTER IX.
Soldier, .  .   .
CHAPTER X.
UQIDe Again,    *    a   a

(
~1
)

PAGU
*      0      0       5
*      .             18
0      *             33
*      *             52
*      *      *      66
*      *      *      65
0*     0      0    117
*.     .      *    132
*      a      a    157
9      0      0


CONqTENTS.
CHAPTER XI.

Laura Ludlow, .

. * CHAPTER XII.
Uncle Grarret's Household Gods,-.  ..
CHAPTER XIII.
'fhe Gotham Trust a'nd Banking Co., .

The Homes, .   .
A Declaration, .

PAe1
.    .     .   190

.       .0                .      198

. . .208

CHAPTER XIV.
0               0 .   220
CHAPTER X..             24

CHAPTER XVI.
Short, but Eventful,  .  .  .   .   .
CHAPTER XVII.
Dr. Rose does the Agreeable,.  . .  .
. . CHAPTER XVIL
In which Uncle Garret leaves us, .  . .
CHAPTER XIX. .
Fortune Frowns and Fortune Smiles, . .

CHAPTER XX.
Myndert Runs for Congress, .  .  .* .
CHAPTER XXI,.
~A Bold Stroke for a Wife~ .  .  .  .
CHAPTER XXII.

A Denouen,  . .

In Limbo, .

CHAPTER XXII.
CHAPTER XXIV.

The Dark Hour before Dawn,. ..

268

. . ., 272
.              .            291
.         .         .       303
.         .         .       821
.         .'        .       330

.                          .    349

MILp KILL JACO-B-

OMMUNIPAW!I low, flat, with scarce a tree to relief
its monotonous aspect, girt by Bait-marsh and salt-
water, what wonder that the bold adventurers of the
Goede Vrouw chose it as the spot most congenial to
Batavian hearts when they first cast anchor in its muddy
cove ! The place has changed but little since its early
days; ;a sleepy-canal winds lazily through the meadows,
the old stone houses~ are shouldered by more pretentious
wooden cottages, but a primitive air of drowsiness and
solidity it still retains, and with a windmill or two we
could well fancy ourselves on the shores of the Zuyder
Zee.
In 'the month, of September some twenty and odd
years ago, on one of those still, warm, mellow days be--
tween summer and autumn, when nature, having yielded
her -abundance, abandons herself to indolence and re-
pose, a very plain equipage was wheeling along the

. .  .*  8 54

. 0  .  9  ,9 70'

iv

~, /

'I
S

/

/

4


8                                                                                           7
VAN                                             t~ARRET VAN BORN.

road that led from Paulus Hook tp this ancient village
of fishermen and market-gardener~. Arrived at the as-
cent of Bergen Heights the coachman turned into a
narrow cart-road that branched off to the left, and while
he is pursuing his way we will take a bird's-eye view
from the heights of the surrounding country. We are
now on the ridge which extends northward into the
Palisades of the Hudson, and below us are the roofs of
Jersey City built on a wide flat, which was at some re-
mote period subnierged, as is evident from the quantity
of exuvhe collected at' the base of the heights. Away
across the Hudson we behold the spires and warehouses
of the great City hedged by ship-masts and spars like a
grove of leafless hickories; while behind us, the land-
scap~ slopes down to a vast expanse of marsh, through
which in i~he distance meanders the Jiackensack. The
dreary aspect of this marsh is relieved by Snake Hill, a
thickly ~ooded eminence, rising island-like out of the
~vapors tl~at cling around its b~e and creep over the sin'-
face of flags and sedges. Turning towards the south,
we see thick cluster of houses fronting New York
bay. Some of them are the old stone dwellings of the
- original! settlers, and others are white wooden cottages
built a ong the water-side and inhabited by fishermen.
* The share, white with crushed oyster-shells, is embank.
ed here for about a quarter-mile to arrest the encroach-
ing sea, which is gradually devouring the land, and
alread$r, in a fresh nor'-easter, dashes its spray merrily
against Vhe windQw panes of the houses. There is a
flotilla of fishing boats bobbing at the end of a little
jetty; stakes parking off oyster beds; fykes and gill
nets drying on the beach; more of those long clinker

built boats bottom up, more nets, oars, and stacks of
shad-poles in the little gardens; with here and there a
killock, a block, an old skiff, or some such prize of flot-
sam as a spar or broken caboose-and all this comprises
the famed vilrage of Communipaw, parent of the great
city on Manhattan Island, and eldest born settlement o~
the Dutch colony of Pavonia.~
By this time the carriage has left the Bergen road,
and is proceeding adown Communipaw lane, During
the ride along the meadows, the occupant of the vehicle,
a lady, was busily employed in whisking away with her
handkerchief the mosquitoes that attacked her head and
hands. Annoyed beyond endurance by the pertina-
cious insects she raised the glasses; and thus boxcd
continued her ride until the coachman pulledeep to in-
quire of a wayfarer where one Jacob Van Horn lived.
The wayfarer replied by asking which "Jake Van
Horn" was meant, "Mill-Kill Jake" or "Cap'n-
Jake ?"
The coachnian, puzzled, turned to his mistress, when
that lady, dropping the window, said, "The one that
married Miss Vreeland."
"They both on 'em married Miss Vreelands," re-
turned the questioned man.
"The one I want to find," said the lady, "has blue
eyes~. and ~rather large feet."
"Both got blue eyes-can't say zackly 'bout the feet.
Anyhow, Mill-Kill Jake lives close by in that 'ere house,
and it won't put you out much to stop there and ask."
The coachman drove as directed, and iji a few mo.
ment~ they had arrived at a capacious farm-house that
lay at the meet of a creek with the waters of Communi-

6

7


U

&amp;

GARRET VAN HORN.

paw Cove. Here dwelt Jacob Van Horn,' or, "Mill.
Kill Jake," as he was commonlyy called, to distinguish
1dm from other Jacob Van Horns of the neighborhood.
The dwelling was an old one, built of rough grey stone,
with prQjecting eaves, a small porch, and ornamented
around the windows and at the coigns with red brick.
Alongside, towards the creek, stood five overshadowing
elms, giants and patriarchs among the trees of' Commu-
uipaw and South Bergen, while to the eastward lay the
waters of the cove that circled in from Kill Van Kull to
Paulus Hook.
"This is the place, Dennis, ][ know," said the lady, as
her coachman assisted her to alight; "I recollect it now
by the box-trees."
They crossed the simple and neglected garden, made
up of rows of venerable box of enormous girth, holIy~
hocks, some fragrant quince trees, and a grape vine,
witlibut meeting any one, and after several ineffectual
knocks at the front door, set about seeking the ocon-
pants~ At the rear of the house was an open door
leading into the kitchen, entering which they found a
grey-headed negro peeling potatoes.
"Richmond !" cried the lady. "'Where's Mr. Van
Horn?"
"Gone fissiii-.-gone fissin," said the old man in a
hoarse, impatient whisper, and without raising his eyes
from his work.
"When will he return, Richmond ?"
"Dunno-dunno-.---doWt bodder-~---got to git dem
taters riddy gin dinner-time-gin dinner-time."
Finding it useless to question the churlish old man
further, the lady and her domestic walked to a knoll

GARRET VAN HORN.

9

hard-by, from the summit of which they discovered a
boat containing a man and two boys slowly gliding in-
shQre. The boat was soon hitched to a stake in the
creek, and the man, laden with baskets, waded ashore,
followed by the taller boy bearing the other on his back.
The man, who was none other than the sought-for
Jacob, was well advanced in years, as his thin hair and
furrowed face sufficiently attested; but the level of his
broad back and the firm tread of his' long limbs' denoted
yet considerable vigor. He wore a low-crQwn napless
beaver, a double-breasted cloth vest buttoned to his
throat, and a pair of patched trousers of dingy blue, a
style of dress adopted by him, and but little varied,
Sunday or week-days, since the time he 'sported a
queue and knee-breeches.
As he approached and recognized the lady he ex-
claimed, "Well, den, Jane, dat's you, II believe! How's
do old man, Garret? Getting' pretty well 'long, eli?
Well now, oat's pleasant for to see 'you here. Walk
'long in de house dere, walk in."
"Jacob, I've come to see about these ~boys. That's
Garry, aint it? My eye-sight's so poor," said the lady,
who was old Jacob's sister-in-law, pointing with her
gloved finger at the lads, who remained sheepishly back,
staring with curiosity at the lady and her servant.
"Yes-yes----come here, Garry-come, Myndert.
Dem's 'em. Good for nottin rogues d~y be too-can't do
nottin wid 'em. When I was dere age, you see, I was
obleeged to am my livin'. So it was wid your old man,
Garret; ask him, he kin tell you. But den, you see,
had more head nor what I got, so he got 'long better.
Yes-yes----fadder never 'lowed us for to waste our
1*

a

I

N-


10             GARRET VAN ~IORN.                                                  GARRE~P VA~ hORN.            11.

time as dese vagabonds do. 1 wish I was well red on
'em. I tink some of sending' on 'em to sea. All dem
boys do, all day long, nottin but sailing boats-sailin
boats. I never did see two sich lazy scamps as dem two
bees. Ef I ask 'eni for to hoe a little, or to milk do
cow a little, or to do any odder little ting, it's nottin
but grumble-grumble-grumble. But dey'll go fishin,
fast enough. Always 'ready for dat. But work-dat
don't agree wid ?em, no how."
"They all say Carry looks like my husband. Come
here, child-can't say il s a very striking likeness-per-
haps, though, it's the snn~buin," said the lady, approach-
ing the younger lad.
"Garry's putty bright boy, I'll say dat for him, b~it
he aint over strong, not sense he got de inflammation
on his chist. Old Doctor Zabriskie, he tells me ~s how
we must' be keerful on him, but I tinks getting' stronger
nor he was," said the old man in a tone of solicitude
that contrasted with his habitual gruffness.
"Do you remember the talk I had with you, Jacob,
the last time you were at our house, about my taking
Garry with Ub ?"
"Well.-~yes," answered Jacob Van Horn, with a
little hesitation. "But come in do house and set down
and rist yourself a bit. We kin talk 'bout dat after-
wards,-time enough," and he led the way into the best
room, threw open the window shutters, and dusted a
chair for the accommodation of the lady, and another
for her servant.
"Why don't you have a door-mat ?" asked the lady.
"It's easy to see you've no woman about the house,
everything's so untidy. Never mind," added she, ob.

serving his intention of asking ~'h0 coachman to enter,
"Dennis can stay by the horses. SAnd now, Jacob, how
~'have you been since I last saw you? You look older, I
think, though perhaps it's not being shaved. Xow let's
talk about the boys. You know we want to adopt
Garry; so, are you ready ?"
"Well-den-I know de boy wouldn't suit you. lie
aint actually wort his salt, dat boy aint. You couldn't
do noting wid him. Todder dayl set him 'flout banking'
salary and I hadn't morn turn my back round when I
seed him off in dat boat of Myndert's,-.why, he's getting
worse nor Myndert is."
"He seems quiet enough too-come in, Garry, come
here. How old are you? There-~--take your fingers out
of your mouth, child. He don't appear any way vicious
as far as I can see."
"You don't know nottin 'bout him. Boys is so deceiving.
WejI, to be sure he aiht so very vicious, but den you see ~
you'd be ~sorry ef you was to take him. You couldn't
do nottin wid him. I tell you dat beforehand."
"Do you think tjie other-what's his name-Myn-
dert, aint it?' Do you think he'd suit us better? as I'd
as lief take him as his brother-though Garry's named
after his uncle, and perhaps Mr.Van Horn might prefer
him on that account."
"Well, no," answered old Jacob with a shake of the
head, "it's 'bout six tq one and half.dozen to toddler.
Dey be bote good for nottin lazy vagabond!~ as ever I
did see. Dat Myndert, dere, when he was like Garry
I got him a new jacket and trowsers, all blue dey was and'
bran new, wid tree long rows of gilt buttons, and do fust
tue he put 'em on, one Paas I tink it was, he fell in

10

11


12            GA1UU3~T VAN IIcXRN                                               GARR]~T VAN UO1~N.            13

~yid some of dem York boys and dey @got a pitching but'
tons and ef he didn't cut all dem buttons off his coat
and gamble 'em all away, tree dozen at least, and when he
come home he hadn't a button on his coat. What you
tink o' dat ?"
"Dreadful, I'm sure. Th4,. Jacob, you don't seem ins
dined to let me have either of t1~m," said Mrs. Van
Horn. "Now I came' to propose that they be sent to
8ome good boarding school, away from here, and learn
ciphering, and manners, and geography, and such like.
For you are~r~~ing these children up like heathen, and
then "-
"Oh, well now, dey's got dedication enough. Jist as
mi~ch larnin as ever I got ~r your old man, and jist see
how he. got 'long. Too much larnin isn't good for boys
'cept dey be' goin to be doctors or dominies. It makes
dem too proud to work, and ashamed of dere parents.
Dere was old Cornelis VaiPiierzee, as lived down by
Quacknick, as sent his boy, John, down to Princeton to
go tro' college. We]l, what good did it do? Why, when
he came home you couldn't get him to do a bit of work
'round de farm. All he would do all day long, was
nottin but wear g6old chains and smoke cigars, and now
Quacknick and de old house aint good 'nough for him,
and he must go and live to York. Now, jist look at de
money and expense trownaway to bring up a chap like
dat."
"As far as that goes, Jacob, I don't want to put you
to much expense. Let me see-they'll want new books,
and-anyway it wont cost a great deal, and we'll pay for
Garry's schooling if you decide upon letting us have
hin."

The old man revolved the proposal in his mind for
some moments, and then spoke, "how much you tinks
it 'ill cost for Nyndert? lie wouldn't want to stay very
long, anyhow, and I always likes to know 'fore I makes
a bargain, how it's a goin~ to stand. Ef he was dera
tree months, now, I should tink~ he ought to take in a
mighty sight o' larnin."
"Oh, that would be too short a time, Jacob; but then
we could decide about that afterwards. If we should
adopt Garry, why, of course he'd have to have a differ~
ent sort of education and manners from what he's learnt
here. You wouldn't, of course, expect him to enter hi~
uncle's office and be a merchant in this kind of a way.
Now, wouldn't you be pleased to have us adopt hifti and
bring him up as our own son?"
"Well-I dunno-4 dunno," said the old man dubi~
ously.
~' Pshaw V you said a while ago you wished you were
rid of them both."
"Well, I know, I tinks so now and den; for dey do
ennye me so at times. IDey 'ye been spilled, dem boys
is. Why, when dat Garry dere .was tree year old, you
couldn't git him to eat quince sweetmeats widout you
put sugar on 'em."
"I should hope he'd outgrown such nonsense by this
time, and besides it's bad for the teeth. But, Jacob
Van Horn, I shant stay and argue with you any longer~
Make up your mind at once. Do you intend to let me
have one of them or not ?"
~i' Well den, Jane, I'll jist tell you how 'tis. You see
I-I-spos~ dat dey'd be better wid you; no doubt 'bout
dat, So I spose I must let you have one on 'em. I

12

13


14      ~GARRET VAN HORN.                              GARTVNHR.1

links Garry would suit you best, 'cause he takes to books
mighty sharp. Myndert's kinder dull like, 'cept it be
on wrood, and he's much stronger nor his brodder is, so
he'd better work wid me. Garry '11. do bist where
dere's any head work goin' on. I tink he's like his
uncle dat way."
" How are they off for clothing ? They don't look very
gay -just now, and, any way, they'll want new things
to go to school. Let me see, Jacob, what they've got."
" Oh, dey've got a plenty of good warm close; better
close nor what I or your old man had when we was
boys. Dem times, you know, we wore de knee-breeches
and buckles, and had our hair all done up in a long
queue behind.. When dat .went out o' fashion, I' kep
dat long queue o' mine some time. I tinks I must have
it stowed away somewhere yit;" said old Jacob, as he
.led the way np-stairs to the sleeping rooms., e
Mrs. Van Horn pulled out the drawers of an old
clothes-press, and examined tho boys' scant wardrobe
with the critical eye of a housewife. -"And is this all,
Jacob? Dear me!I what a shocking condition they're
in. They want at least half-a-dozen shirts apiece- -
stockings-dear-.dear l there's no time to lose. We
must have new ones made up right away. I had better
take them over with me and have their measures taken,
and linen mnide up at once.", -
" I guess we'd better tink over the matter agin. It
wont do, Jane, to he in too much of~a hurry 'bout dis.
Spose we put it off till de beginnin' o' winter. I may want
dem lboys to help 'round and git in a little salt hay 'fore
long."
"You've had plenty of time to think it over since we

IL

first spoke about it, and here I've omie all the way, and
most bitten to pieces by those mosquitoes, and now you
must decide at once, for I shjant come over again, I can
tell you. Thursday week, is the beginning of a new
quarter at Mr. Crumbie's school, and I want them to be
there at the commencement."
" Well, den, have your own way 'bout dis, Jane-
have your own way. Only, I tinks it's trowin' away a
good deal o' money for nottin on dem rascals."
So Mrs. Van~ Horn carried her point, and took the
boys off with her to procure their outfits. On their way
to the city she made many good-natured inquiries of her
nephews, for a pleasant little woman was Aunt Jane,
very talkative and brisk, and with a constant endeavor
to appear stylish, in which attempt she did not succeed
in the least.
As the las had never seen the interior of any dwell-
ings other thin those of their native village, they were
somewhat w~e-struck at the seeming magnificence of
their uncle's residence. Aunt Jane left them in the
parlor staring in open-eyed surprise at the surrounding
marvels. The room, however, was not a gorgeous nor
even a cheerful one; on the contrary, thick dark cur-
tains excluded the sun-light, the mantels were of black
marble, the furniture, carpets, and walls of a studied
sombre hue, all of which was certainly not calculated
to excite frivolous emotions or raise drooping spirits.
Towards evening, an elderly gentleman, gold-speeta-
cled, black-dressed, and smooth-shaven, arrived.
" This is your uncle, boys," said Mrs. Van Horn.
" Ah-ah," said the uncle in a prompt way, " and
which is Garret ?"

I

I

14

15

$


GARRET VAN hORN.            17

163

GARRET VAN hORN.

"The small one," said Mrs. Van Horn; "he's the
smartest, too."
"Ah-ah---he looks like me, does he ?" said the
uncle, casting a scrutinizing look at his likeness over his
spectacles. "And how do you do, sir ?"
"I'm well," answered the little fellow, hardly daring
to raise his eyes to th&amp; august personage who addressed
him.
"I'm well, sir, thank you-you should say," said Mrs.
Van Horn.
"I'm well, sir, thank you," repeated the boy.
"The other boy is named-what ~" inquired Mr.
Van Horn.
"Myndert," replied his wife.
"Ah, Myndert-that was his grandfather's name,
Well, I hope, boys, you will both grow up to be respec-
* table men and good citizens. Ah-um-Mrs. Van Horn,
* I suppose~ we had better go down to tea."
Aunt Jane .was many year~ yoringer than her hus-
band, for she was barely, thirty or so, while he was full
fifty. This may have accounted for their different dis-
positions, for he was as grave and undemonstrative as
she was cordial and lively.
The next morning the boys returned to Communipaw
to take leave of their father, but the old man had, on re-
flection, and after consultation with his companion, the
negro Richmond, repented of his acquiescence in his
sister-in-Jaw's plan, and now opposed his children's de~
pasture. Whereupon, Aunt Jane was obliged to call
in old Jacob's sisters, Mrs. Brinekerhoff and Mrs. Van
Reypen, to her assistance. These ~two ladies, kind-
hearted souls, ba~&amp;for a long time been much disturbed

in mind by their brother Jacob's worldly course of life,
and by the pernicious example be presented to hi~
children; they, therefore, gladly exerted all their influ-
ence to induce him to 4ccept Mrs. Van Horn's generous
offer to exercise a naat~rnal protectorate over the youth
and adopt one of them as her own son. Old Jacob,
though seconded by the aged negro in his opposition,
could not resist this camarilla, and after a short contest
was forced to succumb and yield a reluctant assent to
the departure of his children from home.
When, finally, Mrs. Van Horn's carriage came to take
the boys away to school, old Jacob was much affected,
and unable to repress his emotion; while Richmond, the
black servant, shuffled about in a very uneasy way, as
if he had received a severe knock on the pate, and
shook his grey mop stubbornly, muttering to himself,
"No use-no use torkin' Miss Van Horn-+[ tell ye
can't go-can't go Miss Van Horn.?~
And now, as this separation from home proved the
spring and shaping of the two boys, Myndert and Garret
Van Horn's future lives, I, Garret, the junior brother
and chronicler of the family, take it as the starting-point
in this my veritable history, and beg to introduce my-
self to the reader's acquaintance. flut, before ~4-
vancing further in this narrative, I had better, perhaps;
retrospect a little and occupy your attention in the next
chapter with a few details necessary to elucidate subse-
quent events.


GAI~RET VAI~ flOR~           19

CHAPTER II.
SOME ACCOUNT O1~' TflE VAJ ~ noni~r FAMILY,
IT   cliiied to agree with Mr. Tennyson, that                K
ow~v~u democratic we may be, however well in-
"The grand old gardener and his wife
Smile at the claims of long descent,"
yet it is gratifying to reflect that one~s ancestors were
neither hangmen nor thieves, and we feel a secret plea-
sure, nonsensical if you will, in being able to number
among our forefathers one illustrious or noble person-
age. Let me confess I share this prevalent weakness,
and that in my younger days it ,was food for ii~y'vanity,
and still is, perhaps, some satisfaction, to know that
good blood and true runs through my veins. Show me
nobler stock than those stout old burghers of Ghent
and Haarlem, those obstinate brewers and weavers,
that indomitable peasantry of the Z&amp;aland marshes who

fought the sea inch by inch, or those hardy sailors who
swept the Channel and humbled the meteor flag in its
own waters. What vividly tinted pictures does their
history present of patriotic struggles, internecine strifes,
wars and devastation, shifting to eras of learning, opu-
lence, and tranquillity. I love to dwell on the heroic
deeds of old Holland's sons, of that frugal, honesty
thrifty race; and while perusing the pages that teem
with the recital of their valor, their constancy, and their
love of liberty, my heart swells with the thought that
the blood of thos~ stubborn freemen, mayhap of that
unfortunate Count, or of the intrepid pilot William, or
of that fierce water-rat who bit the Spaniard's heart in
twain and spat it out as t~oo bitter, may be leaping in
my pulses.
But my brother Myndert laughs at all this, and de-
clares that we Americans have no ancestors, and that
our women should wear golden grasshoppers in their
hair, for, like the ancient Athenians, we spring from the
earth. So, leaving conjecture aside, let me simply state
that my grandfather Myndert, son of Peter Van I-Torn
and Mary Van Voorst his wife, married Miss Petronella
Marcellus, a lady of Ilugucuot extraction, by whom he
had issue three sow au~ ~ ~ wo daughters. At his death
his farm ~yas divided among the children, and t~e home-
stead fell to my father's share. The youngest son, Cor-
nelius, being rather wild and free-handed, soon squan~
dered his portion of the patrimony, and then entered
the navy, where he became boatswain's.mate. I can but
just i~emeinber him, a hairy giant all over India-ink
anchors, eagles, and stars, who gave Myndert; and ilie
a bright dollar apiece, and took me on his knee while

19


20          GARRET VAN' HORN.                                      GARRET VAN HORN.         21

he sang to us "Perry's Victory." We never saw
him afterwards, for he was lost in the sloop-of-war
Hornet, foundered in the Gulf of Mexico during a
cyclone.
The second son, Garret, inspired with more ambition,
went to the city of New York, entered the counting-
room of Abraham Depeyster as errand-boy, and gra-
dually attained, by a faithful observance of the rules of
commercial success, a partnership in that opulent h use,
and subsequcAtly a large fortune. Jacob, n~iy ther,
married a Miss Vreeland, from which union s rang my
brother Myndert and inyself~ We lost our mother
when I was about five years old, and thus sufl'2rod all
the neglect consequent upon the deprivation of mater-
nal care and solicitude. Then our father's household
consisted only of his two childi~n and the aged negro
Richmond, 'w1ho had formerly been a slave in the family,
Richmond, served as cook ahd chambermaid, besides
lending a helping hand at the vegetable culture; but all
'his pride lay in his culinary talent, *~or, immediately
after his manumission, having, to try his new-found
wings, made, several sea-voyages as cook and steward,
he had learnt the art of concocting various vile messes
known as "sea-pies," "lobseouses," etc~ that seemed to
my innocent boyish palate savory enough, but which I
now shudder to recall. Richmond had bee~i also in his
vigorous years no mean pugilist, and the "Dutch nig.
ger" was wellkuown and dreaded about Bear market and
the slips of New York as a formidable bruiser. After his
seafaring days he obtained employment on board the
periaguas plying between the Jersey shore and the
city, until, succumbing to age and the rheumatism, he

r~turne~ to our house, where he found a haven for the
remainder of his days. He came originally from Vir-
ginia, where my grandfather Myndert had purchased
him, and as he had often carried about my uncles and
aunts when children he imagined himself an integral
portion of the family, and thereby privileged to rail at
~and scold the Van Horns all and singular. And, so
thoroughly did he avail himself of this immunity that in
his old age hewas continually grumbling and growling,
day in and day out. Whether engaged in tilling the
garden or about the kitchen, in raking oysters, or in
any other work, he kept up a running accompaniment' of
garrulous snarls and threatening. And so rooted had
the habit become that for want of an object he would
hold grumbling soliloquies by the hour. Although this
particularity made him about as companionable a body
as a neuralgia bear, yet he and father remained in con-
stant good fellowship, probably because the latter was
also given to a similar practice, and thus, between tjiem,
they managed to keep up a lively spirit of discontent
with the universe and all its appurtenances. It was
all bark and no bites, however, and we boys were not
only unmindful of the beatings of father and Richmond,
but on the whole rather relished them as spicing the
dull routine of existence.
And so we throve like little Indians, wild, untutored,
and uncouth. I, Garret, was a slim alert boy with dark
hair and eyes, and a skin i~rown as a chestnut; and father
would say~ that all the French blood that my grand.
mother Petronella Marcellus haa brought into the
family must have concentrated in me, for no Van.iHorn
ever had so much black about him.

U

4


GARRET VAN HORN.

* Myndert, on the contrary, was fair, had blue-grey eyes
and light hair, not pretty featured by any m~ans, but
stalwart and tall, with a square open forehead, slim
American jaw, long legs, and the striding gait of all
Dutch colonists from the Cape of Good Hope to Paulus
Hook; for, instead of being the fat dumpy race the
popular fallacy *ould have us, we of Dutch descent are
mostly above the average stature; indeed, at the Cape,
the Boors easily o'ertop the Englanders, who certainly
are not undersized men. Myndert, too, though he looked
stolid, and as if it took some time for an idea to reach
his brain, was of an ingenious turn of mind, and spent
many hours at the smith's and the carpenter's until he
had learnt much of their crafts. ~He had constructed,
without other instruction than that picked up in occa-
sional visits to the boat-builders, a fine cat-rigged sail-
boat, fifteen feet long. The materh~ls he bought~with
money earned by gathering chestnuts for market, and
supplying the apothecaries with calamus-root dug from
the swamps. Father was much gratified at the evi.
dences of his son's mechanical skill, and though he took
pains to conceal his satisfaction, betrayed it by pur-
chasing the canvas and cordage, as our father never
expended money for things not absolutely necessary
without some strong incentive. Likely enough, though,
he repented of his indulgence, for the "Gallinipper"
proved so swift a craft that my brother and I spent
nearly all our time in sailing about the harbor ~nd racing
with the Whitehall boats, much to the neglect of the
Van Horn vegetables. Once, as we were dancing gaily
past Robbins' reef, a gust of wind struck our sail and
capsized the boat. We were both excellent swimmers

nd yndert soon gained a perch on the uplifted keel,
but no Garret was to be seen, for, on going over, the
boom bad struck me a stunning blow on the head. As
a white face bobbed up to the surface for the last time,
Myndert darted in like a fish, clutched me, and with a few
strong strokes bore me back to the boat insensible. The
ligl~t-house keeper, who saw the accident, came to our
assistance, and I was brought to the lighthouse, hung
up by the heels, rolled on a barrel, rubbed dry, and
branded to restoration. In spite of this warning we
were out again the next day, skimming the billows as
fearlessly as a nautiks. In verity, I was amphibious
at that age, always either on 6r in the water, sailing,
fishing, or swimming, and my love for that element was
such as to lead me in a-bathing as early as March. This
was at that period of boy-life when we hold the Diluvian
era as one replete with aquatic delights, and see in
Arctic voyages but the splendid opportunities of skating
and sleighing. What we regret most in our advanced
years is the decay of those keen, fresh sensations with
which we enjoyed muscular play before our addiction to
razors. Can music, pictures, or books afford an equiva-
lent for that ebullient joy our youthful hearts felt in
skating, or in cleaving the limpid waters with free un-
trammelled limbs? Are not the pleasures of the table,
the mild delirium of tobacco, chess, dancing, billiards,
horses, insipid in comparison? Skating! "To chase
the flying hours with frozen feet," how I enjoyed it! I
could skate and roll like a Frisian. In severe weather
the~ bay was frozen hard as iron, and then would we sally
forth, eager as hounds, to wheel and glide and skim
over the congealed deep like so many swallows. How

22

(

23


24             GA1~RE~. VA T ]~~RN.
the swift steel rattled over the granite ice speeding u~
miles onward! and the return, to plough our way
sturdily back in the teeth of a bitter nor'-wester and
come home panting like chased harts, blood boiling,
faces flaming, all a-glow and hot save where the com-
pressed toes ached with cold! No wonder a happy
boyhood is always remembered and regretted. I.pictui'e
to myself that little quiet unobtrusive, spot where my
early youth was spent; the bedroom that faced the
east, and from which I daily beheld the picturesqne
panorama of the harbor, with the hills of Staten Island
rose-tinted at morn, then framed in. clear transpare~it
blue, and again~ enveloped in the purple haze of even-
ing; or at sultry summer noon-tide, when the sea. shim-'
mered beneath the glaring sun and the white batteries
of Ellis's Island shone like a miniature Malta!
A vivid recollection have I of the execution of two
pirates on Gibbet Island. The surrounding water was
closely dotted with boats lull of spectators, and when
the signal gun was fired, up rose two night-capped
bodies 'dangling in the air! A gale came on that very
night, and when I lay in bed the water surged up so
angrily, and . the wind moaned so mournfully, that I
could not sleep, and aifrightened, left Myndert and
crej~t into my father's bed. I was very young at the
time of that horrible occurrence, but the spectacle has
not been in the least effaced from my memory4
It must be avowed, in passing, that my father was
considered by his pious relatives as being but little
short of a heathen, for he seldom went to church and fre-
quently violated the second Commandment in a shock.

GARRET V N HORN.          25

big way; but for all that, he and old Dominic Van
Winkle were close friends, and there was no more wel-
comc visitor at our house than the kind and venerable
clergyman. On such an occasion, the two old men
would enjoy their pipes on the 'porch bench and hold a
quiet confab in their well-beloved mother Dutch, when
father would promise to return the Dominie's visit, at
meeting the next Sunday, a ~promise he never failed to
perform.
As some amends for his lack of devotion and neglect
of the exercises of religion, father always improved any
opportunity to inculcate in his children a love of' truth,
honesty, and economy, and a hatred of deceit and villany.
"When you gits as old as I be, boys, you'll know de
world better. Ef you larns by 'sperience, it 'ill cost
you something , and all you can learn widout experience ,
why, dat's so much made. Oh, what tricks dem sharp-
ers be up to! and what ways dey has o' running de mo-
ney out ~' fools' pockets !"
Once, he took my brother and me to see the races at
the Beacon course, and to enlighten us on some of the
practices and temptations of this wicked world. "The
Dominie, he says~ boys, dat forewarned be forearmed,
and dat i~ really so."
The track ~vas some three or four miles north of our
village, towards Seacaucus, and so father, Nyndert, and
I trudged off to see the sport; father explaining to
Myndert the method of the races, and denouncing the
attendant evils of gambling and drunkenness, while I ran
on ahead, snapping a whip-lash and whipping off mullein
heads, and big bumble-bce~ from thistle blooms. We
stopped at a friend's house, whose lands adjoined the
2

25


1'
n
I'
ii
Ii

GARRET VAN HORN.

course, and by getting on the roof of an outhouse we
obtained a goQd view of the race. Around the track
was a high board fence thickly bedaubed along its upper
edge with tar, which, kept viscid by a hot sun, was in-
tended as limed twigs f~r impudent boys who should
attempt to scale the inclosure. In addition, there were
men stationed inside at certain distances as coast-guards,
and between these and the fellows in the overlooking
tree-tops occurred many unambiguous passages-at-
tongues, where elegance was entirely sacrificed to force
of expression. In particular was I amused by a large
fat man in a white hat among the constables, who, it
seemed, had at some period of his life purloined an ass,
for one mischievous urchin was constantly shouting,
"Who stole the donkey ?" and another would reply,
"The man in the white hat !" which so enraged the fht
man that he made many perspiring efforts to belabor
the younkers, who, fortunately for them, were be'rond
his truncheon's length. Then were we diverted by the
race, which was a contest between the famous trotting
mare Ringdove, and a celebrated pacer. The mare
proved decidedly the better one. Around and around
the track she glided as smoothly as a rabbit, and when
the gallant animal came ~n at the last heat, spinning the
de1ica~e wheels of the ~u ky into indistinct disks, there
arose a cheer like the sea-roar from the dense multitude
on the stands, for the mare was a great favorite and
unrivalled on the trotting turf.
The sport ended, we left our friend to return home,
and while dodging our way through the vehicles throng-
ed about the entrance to the course, we noticed ~i thim-
ble-rigger at. work.

26

GARRET VAN HORN               27
"Dere, boys," said father, "dere's one of dena rascally
thieving gamblers dat I told you 'bout. Come wici mc and
I'll show you how d6y cheats folks, so dat you'll know
'nough to keep away from dem when you meets 'em.
See dere, now, he's trying for to git sdme one fool
'nough to bet wid him." We approached the man, a
sallow, 'tufted-chin chap, who, standing with his kn~e
propped up by a cane, was moving three little ebony
cups over his leg, and crying: "Bet any man five, ten,
fifteen, or fifty dollars can't tell under which cup little
joker lays! Now you see, and now you don't see him!
If you don't bet you can't win !" and he exhibited a
handful of gold coin as a sample of what might, or
might not, be won in case you better. "Come, sir,"
he continued, addressing father, "I've w6n and lost a
great deal of money at this little game, and I'll bet you,
sir, any amount o' money, from 'five to fifty dollars, you
can't tell under which of them crc cups little joker is."
"No-no---," said father, with a knowing laugh,,
"can't come dat, neighbor, I'm too old a bird for dem
tricks. Dey won't do for old foxes as ~ be."
"You're right," chimed in a bystander, apparently a
drover, with a jolly good-humored face. "That game's
too st~ic, he'd better make tracks-can't make nothing'
round these diggins. We knows too much for him."
The thimble-rigger dated a look of wrath at the
man, and repeated his challenge 1~ the crowd around
him. As he turned his head aide for a moment, the
drover~ slily raised the cups and brushed away the
pea without the gambler's noticing him, and~ then said,
contemptuously, "Don't believe you've got any little
joker under any of "em."


28          GARRET VAN HORN.                                          GARRET VAN HORN.          29

The gambler continued his cry without~bestowing any
attention to the other's remark.
"Haw-haw 1" laughed the drover, jeei~ingly, "that's
a safe game to play. It's all win with you, mister,
and no lose."
The gambler turned angrily to him.. "What do you
mean by that ?"
"Mean what I say. Don't believe you've got any
joker under any of 'em."
"Perhaps you'd like to bet on' that ?" asked the
gambler.
"I'll lay anything on it," replied the drover.
"Well, for the fun o' the thing, I'll bet you fifty
ddlLars it's under one of 'em, come
"I hain't got' fifty, but I'll bet you twenty."
"Nothing short of fifty. Don't know as I ought to
bet any way, it's hardly fair. I know I put it there, but
if you're fool enough to bet agin it, I'll go fifty."
"Tell you ain't got fifty, but I'll go you twenty, and
mind, I'm to raise the cups myself," said the drover, and
turning to father with a wink, he whispered, "you put
up thirty and we'll have him snug."
Father, who chuckled in~~ardly at the prospect of
seeing the biter bit, could not resist the additional
temptation of gathering 'thirty dollars. "I ain't got
but fifteen wid me, but I'll put up dis watch dat's wort
thirty more dollars, agin do rest. Dat'll be more'n
square."
"Well, I guess that'll do. Put tip the stakes in that
man's hands. Now we're all right. Go it !" exclaimed
tl~e thimble-rigger~
"Here she goes !" said the drover, raising the first cup.

Nothing. He raised the second. Sure enough, there
was the little j~,ker!
"I'll take them stakes, if you please," said the gain-
bIer, "1 told you you'd lose.~'
The look of discomfiture in my father's face as the
crowd. raised a shout of derisive laughter I can never
forget. He hurried away as fast as po~sible. The jolly
drover, who had appeared staggered at the result, re-
mained, as I saw on looking back, in amicable, converse
with the thimble-man. We walked along in silence,
Myndert and I not quite understanding how it came to
pass that father,' whom we thought as ~vise as Solomon,
could have been thus cozened by the sharpers. Sud-
denly he said, "Boys, you see I did a foolish ting and
got sarveci right for it. had no business to bet and try
for to win any man's money. No man's got a right to
money he don't fairly am by honest work. I won't be-
grudge de money of it 'ill only be a warning' to ye,
dough fifteen dollars and de watch is a good deal to
Lose," and he repeated, with a shake of his head, "fifteen
dollars and do watch." He never alluded to this little
adventure again; though I'm sure he long regretted
the loss, for the Van horns, with but few exceptions,
arc inclined to parsimony and cling to dollars with
great tenacity. This weakness in father, however, i~ever
extended 'to penuriousness or uncharitablen ~s for, on
the contrary, a kinder-hearted man or a more tr ly gene-
rous one to suffering humanity never existed. Don't I
still hear old Julia Snow's voice, when father would dump
a sleigh-load of fire-wood or a barrel of flour before
her door on a' winter's morning; don't I hear the, poor
colored crone laugh and cry, "Shor now, Mass' Van

1


30           GARRET VAN hORN.                                             GAIU~ET VAN~IIORN.          31

Horn, dat's so like you, dat is I" Never did he hesitate
to share his clothes or meals with those in minced, but as
t~o parting outright with hard, ringing silver, he evinced
a decided repugnan~e. All had a claim to hospitality
and assistance, but, in his view, none was entitled to
money unless it was fairly earned by toil. A ragged,
lin~ping sailor came along one day, and stopped at our
gate to beg water and food.
"What's do matter, Jack ?" asked father.
"Stove in, matey," replied the tar; bluffly. "Knocked
off yard-arm on to the fore-chains-splintered larboard
gain, and got flogged blue by the dickey with a hand-
spike for falling off. Took French leave and crawled
away. Bound to Philamedelphy. Give us some
grub."
"Come in de housb, and let's look at you, man."
The sailor was taken in, and found to be suffering from
a broken limb and some severe contusions. lie was
furnished with medical care, and finther and Richmond
nursed him as they would a brother until he became
well. "Now, then," said Mill-Kill Jake, giving him an
old coat and a loaf of bread, "we kin spare you.
Travel, and don't let us see your l4gly carcase here agin."
Afterwards we discovered that the distressed mariner
had helped himself to several of father's best shirts, and
two silver teaspoons. "Dere now," said f~tlmer,
pleased perhaps at his retrospective sagacity, "didn't I
say do feller was a rogue. I tell ye what, dere's no de-
ceivin' me so easy."
Old Richmond said the fellow was a man.o~wrar's~man,
and he "nebber seed man-o' ~var's-man wouldn't teal all
kid lay hands on." I said, that if ever I saw any old

ii

H

t'

8

80

sailors begging around the house agai~, I'd throw
stones at them.
"What for ?" asked father.
"Cause," said. I, indignantly, "see what thanks you
get. Give 'em all they want, and they'll turn right
round and rob you." .
"Do you aspects danks when you gives anything ?"
"Yes," said I.
"What kind o' charity you call dat, ch? I calls dat
dickering' like a Yankee pedlar. It's your duty to help
dem what's poor and. needy, and no one's got right to
Spect dank~ only for doin' dere duty. Mind dat."
It seems hardly credible that at this time, although
living but a few miles apart, the ~two brothers, Jacob
and Garret Van horn, had soon each other but twice in
a period of fourteen years. Garret came to the wedding
when Jacob married Miss Elizabeth Vrceland, and
again, met his brother at that Elizabeth Vreeland's
funeral nine years after. Not that there was any ilL.
feeling between them, for Jacob, on his part, had a
most exalted opinion of Garret; he believed him to be
one of the most remarkable men in existence, and lost
no opportunity of extolling the talent and excellences
of the wealthy merchant. Every autumn it was custo-
mary for Jacob to take a waggon-load of cabbages to
Garret's house. As he always arrived there in the fore-
noon ho never met his brother, but Mrs. Garret received
him very kindly, and after the cabbages were stowed
away in the cellar time two had a little chat together in
the dining-roon'i--~-and they were both very talkative~-
until Jacob deemed it time to return to Communipaw.

&amp;


G4I~ET VA T IJORN~
On one of' these annual visits, I ~ccornpanicd my father;
d            and Aunt Jane, who had never seen me before, took
ii           quite a liking to me, gave me cake and a book, and dis-
covering that I was a namesake of my uncle's, formed
the design at once of adopting me, as she was childless.
Without any reflection, and without waiting to consult
with her husband, she impulsively proposed this plan to
father, who, rather bedazzled with an offer which held
out such a brilliant future to his son, consented with
some misgivings. This proposal was followed by the
result developed in the preceding chapter, and my Iwo-
ther and I were consigned to Aunt Jane Van Horn, to                                 CHAPTE
be dealt with as she might direct.                        '                             ~
i            o the academic groves of
county of' Westchester,
that our fallow ideas might
The boarding-school, or rath(
)                                                        magical Lyceum," as it was
note-paper prospectus, was in
one Mr. Crumble (Cicero 0mm
grey-headed man, and famoi
sooth, gave more attention
pupils, and left his "sacred ci
to the care of an assistant G
man named MuUinson. 9 th
ton Mullinson, B.A. (as per
debated for whatever instruction
Andre Rivois, who came up
city, did, to be sure, endeavor
intellects a smattering of Fren
2*

LYCEUM.
E-, a hamlet in the
were Myndert and I sent,
receive a careful culture.
~r "Classical and Mathe-
designated in a certain
ider the management of
bin, A.M.), a tall, solemn,
~s scholar, but who, in
to 'his potatoes than his
barges," as he called us,
4ng1ic~, usher), a young
is Mullinson, or P. New-
prospectus), we were in-
n we received. Monsieur
thrice a week from the -
to instil into our leaden
oh; but the gay old Gaul


84          GARRET VAN HORN,                                        GARRET VAN ITOIIN.      35

was more an object of mirth than attention, and often
left the mauvais .sujets in' despair, and with a paper
parcel of frog-legs, caught in a ten minutes' brookside
ramble, in his flap pocket.
Old Crumbie was considered by the scholars as the
very concentration and personification of cruelty and
meanness. He- seldom appeared in the school-room but
to administer punishment, to which he applied himself;
we thought, with great, relish. He invariably pre-
faced the correction with a long homily wherein he
alluded to his being under a "painful necessity," and
orated otherwise on the mental distress it cost him to
perform this duty, but nevertheless, heartier ~vere the
thwacks, and more numerous in proportion to the length
of his sermon and the depth of his sorrow. But the
grossest piece of hypocrisy of all, in our opinion, was
the meek manner with which he said grace before
grace for us, mind you, for he carefully abstained
from 'partaking of our fare, and had his tid-bi~s at a side
table with his wife and daughter; and then to return
gorged,, With delicacies and offer, thanks at our table ! /
thanks for such food I It was adding galling insult to
deep injury. Washington Baker, familiarly known as
Red-head Baker, wrote a letter describing the outrage-
ous way in which we were starved, the bad quality of
the hash, and other grievances, which he intended to
send home, confidently asserting, that his father would
"fix old Orumbie," buV unfortunately old Crumbie got
hold of the missive by some means or other, and of
course was under the "painful necessity" of trouncing
Master Baker fbr carrying on a "clandestine correspon-
dence."

After all, we were not s&amp;nt to schoQl to be pampered,
and boarding-school keepers know well enough that full
stomachs are incompatible with close application to
study. Soon were all these trifling troubles effaced, and
but little did they detract from our sum of happiness;
indeed, we entertain, I believe, a more agreeable recol-
lection of those boyish adventures that were rounded
oil by a flagellation, and all incidents of school-life are
doubtless niore deeply imprinted by an application of
the switch. And in truth we well merited all the
punishment we ever received, for a more troublesome,
cvilAnclined set of boys were never gathered together.
There, for instance, was big Torn Clark, who broke open
a closet to steal pies, and when Mr. Crumble undertook
to punish him, pui~ched that pedagogue under the waist-
band with such desperate fury that Mullinson was
obliged to rush to the rescue, overpower Tom, and un-
prison him in 'a garret-room. In the night, however,
Tom wrenched o the lock, took Mullinson's watch and
best coat, ran away to New York, and shipped before
the mast on a vessel bound to Manilla. This event occa-
sioned an impressive bit of eloquence from Mr. Crunibie,
who surpassed any of his previous efforts in that line.
He demonstrated conclusively, in Ciceronian periods,
and with Deinosthenian ardor, that Tom Clark would
conic to a bad end, and pictured him, in a graphic pero-
ration, as a pirate hanging in chains, a prey to the vul-
tures and cormorants. Unfortunately for the school-
master's predicttons, and fortunately f~r Torn, he is now
a wealthy deacon, and has sent to Muilinson (now pro-
fessor in Brown University) an c~pensive chronometer
watch, and a suit of fine clothes.

11 I5f, I

I


GA1~RET VAN H6RN.           37

GARRJ~T VAN HORN.

Worthy Muihuson! methinks I see him now as ho
sallied forth on clear Sabbath mornings accota~red in all
the bravery of a swallow-tail coat, pruneila gaiters, and
strapped trousers. How gallantly he held the parasol
over Miss Araminta Crumbie's head as they brought up
the rear of the church-going procession! And the
grating, wheezing scrapes that issued from his bass-viol,
as he sat gravely in the little church-choir, one eye on
Handel and haydn and the other vigilantly watching
the apple-munching urchins in the adjoining pews!
Does not nature bedeck herself on the Sabbath days,
when the plough rests in the furrow and the oxen graze
without fear of the yoke? I fancied so when gazing
through the lom~g church windows at the bright green.
landscape, so still and serene, save the song of the shrill-
ing locust, the drone of the bee, and the breezy rustle
of the tree-leaves; and I sighed and~ became drowsy,
watching the ~gently swaying boughs as the parson's
long sermon came not to an end, so that Mr. Crumble
marked my inattention and gave me a chapter in the
Testament to commit to memory as a punishment there-
for. I was no favorite with Mr. (Jrumbie. lie sus-
pected, and with some jn~tice, that I was giveA to lead
others into misehieg and the affair of the slaughtered
gosling confirmed his suspicions. That occurred in this
wise; Myndert, who continued to exercise his mechani-
cal ~ki1l in water-mills, waggons, trap-cages anti what-
not, made a handsome bow-gun with cherry-wood stock
and hickory bow, but it needed a good bow-string to
complete it, and as we were going into the woods one
afternoon to prove it on the feathered tribe, i~ boy sug-

gcs'ted that one of the cords of Mr. Mullinson~s bass-
viol would make a capital bow-string. This was a good
idea, but the rub was how to obtain the coveted arti-
cle. Finally, good-natured Myndert volunteered to ab-
stract it from the instrument. lIe did so safely, and off
we gleefully went with intention fell towards all bobo-
links and chipmunks that should cross our path. But
Diana was unpropitious, and the quarry scorned the
quarrel, so not to be balked of all sport, as we were
returning by the turnpike, whizz! I let fly at a flock, of
geese waddling peacefully along the rqad not far from a
farmhouse. The pile transfixed a gosling, that after a
few screeching quacks ~trctched out its yellow legs and
died. The other geese surrounding their dead com-
panion, set up a great noisy gabble which attracted the
farmer's attention, who, crawling alongside a stone fence
unperceived by us, on a sudden pounced upon inc.
With a quick wrench I escaped from his grasp, and away
we all scudded as fast as our legs could carry us. But
unfortunately, he had captured the bow-gun, which was
sumcient to inspire us with apprehensions of a lively and
unpleasant kind. The next day was Sunday, and I
trembled to think of Mr. Mullinson's wrath on discover-
ing that his b~iss-viol was robbed of a string. I held my
breath in church when he drew off the green-bag-I
saw him scrape and screw-suddenly he stopped-I
turned my head aside with a sinking heart, for I knew
he ~as scanning our faces. Myndert was stolid as the
figure-head of a frigate. I looked again; Mullinson was
whispering to Miss Araminta, and then proceeded slow-
ly and sorrowfully to enrobe his darling instrument.
Poor fellow, he had not the skill of a Paganini, and all


38          GARRET VAN HORN.

harmony fled at a missing string. The morrow was the
day of reckoning, and betimes up came~ the despoiled
farmer with the unfortunate bow-gun, to lay his com-
plaint before Mr. Crumble.
The school was mustered.
Mr. Crumble mounted the rostrum, and as he rapped
forcibly on the desk with his rattan, we instinctively felt
that there was a raging Nemesis within him. "Silence !"
said he.
You could have heard a pin drop. M4lllinson, who
stood by Mr. Crumble examining the bow-gun, spoke
some words to him in an under-t6ne, while the boys
looked at me as the shipmates of the Ancient Mariner
did at that venerable tar after he had killed the alba-
tross.
"Whose cross-bow is this?" asked Mr. Crumble.
No answer.
"I shall ask but once more-whose bow is this ?"
(with a sharp rap on the desk.)
"It belongs to me," said Myndert.
"Come forward, sir. Now, sir, in the first place,
where did you obtain this string ?"
"From Mr. Mulhinson."
"Did Mr. Mulhinson give it to you?"
"No, sir."
"Well then-come, sir, no prevarication-~how did
you obtain possession of it ?"
"I took it."
"Ah-you took it without permission. Plainly speak-
ing, stole it. Are you aware of the nature of that
offence? Do you know that it is larceny-that it is a
crime rendering you obnoxious to the hiws of the land?"

88

L

lA

GARRET VAN HORN.
Myndert looked at his shoes without replying. I was
anxiously awaiting the crisis, and hoping selfishly that
all would end in only Myndert's being flogged and the
rest of us escaping.
"You feel guilty, do you? and dare not answer? I
am glad to perceive that you are not entirely lost to
shame. That there still lingers in your conscience a
faint sense of the heinous offence you have omittede.
Painful to me as is this portion of my duty, and how-
ever gladly would I relinquish it, yet may I not. The
responsibility I owe to each of you, to your parents, and
to myself, compels me to summon my fortitude and
inflict the punishment of the rod, that I may receive your
future thanks for the salutary correction. Myndert
Van Horn, sir, hold out your hand."
Thwack~! thwack! thwack! etc., etc.
Myndert never winced.
"Remember, Myndert," said Mr. Crumble, as he was
putting it on, "that it pains me much more than it does
you. The other hand, sir," And two dozen other
thwacks, sharper if possible, were applied.
"Now, Myndert, for the second count. You were
one of the party who went out last Saturday" afternoon
and killed a gosling of Mr. Purdy's with the cross-bow,
were you not ?"
"Yes, sir."
"Now, sir, tell me the names of your accomplices."
No answer.
"Come, sir, tell me at once withor~t any hesitation."
No answer.
* "Myndert, I will have no trifling. You place me
again under the painful necessity of correcting you, but


40              GAET~ET VAN IiOi~N.                                                  GA1~R]3~T VAN IIORTh            41

there must be no faltering on my part. Your hand,
sir."
Though Myndert's hands Were blistered by the blows
he had already got, he held them out stoutly and took
another dose.
"Now, sir, will you answer
Myndert still maintained a stubborn silence, Mr.
Crumble caught him by the collar of his coat, threw him
over a bench, and administered to him a trouncing of
the most severe kind, until forced to desist by the break-
ing of the stick. "Now, sir," said Mr. Crun~~bie, breath-
less, "you'll thank me for this-you'll thank me for this !"
Myndert stood it like a Trojan, and never flinched.
After regaining his breath, Mr. Cruiiibie said, "Are you
ready now, sir, to answer my questions ?"
(Myndert more stubborn than ever.)
"Very well, sir, I shall lock you up in solitary con-
finement until you are ready to answer. You will thus
have plenty of time to reflect upon the effects of your
contumacy."
There were conflicting emotions of selfishness and duty
at work among the boys whom Myndert courageously
refused to betray. I, chief offender and chief coward,
long repented that I did not at first avow myself sole
author of the mischief. It was reserved for the young-
est lad in the party to act the manly part.
"Please, sir," said IAcky Prime, "I was one of 'em,
A sir."

"4,

"Ah, you were one, Richard, were you? Very well,
and who were the others ?"
Dicky became interested in his jacket buttons,
Shamed out of my selfish cowardice by little Dick, I

came forward and avowed myself the slayer of Mr.
Pu:rdy's gosling.
"It would have been more to your credit, sir, had
you made this confession before. Now, sir, who were
the others ?"
Following my example four other boys stepped forth,
thus saving the schoolmaster further catechizing.
"It is a humiliating spectacle, indeed," began Mr.
Crumbic, gazing sternly at the culprits, "to behold such
youthful depravity, and not only humiliating, but pain-
ful, very painful. I shall postpone further remarks until
after school hours, so as not to interfere with your
studies. You may resume your seats.'~
We knew well enough that the schoolmaster's inten-
tion in remitting the floggings was solely to rep6se his
wearied arm and gather strength towards a resumption
of hostilities. But forewarned is forearmed, and we
took the precaution to resin our hands to make them
callous, and to clothe ourselves in an extra pair of trowa
sers over a layer of copy-books. We agreed, also, ~o
keep up a constant squirming and howling during the
flagellation, so as to prevent the unusual percussion
from awakening in Mr. Crumble's mind a suspicion of
our stratagem. No sooner was four o'clock post-meridKan
come,~ than the schoolmaster rapped on his desk and
ordered the offending party before him, The seven
transgressors slowly ranged themselves beneath the
pedagogical eye, and had not Mr. Crumbic beca pur-
blind he might have observed a remarkable enlargement
of the lower half of each boy's body. "it is a humili..
ating spectacle; indeed, and not only humiliating, but'
painful, exceedingly painful," etc., etc.,-began the school-


master, while we, heedless of the usual exordium, no~
ticed with dismay that he was provided with three new
and thick rattans. At the conclusion of his speech~ Mr.
Crumble seized Dicky Prime, and began operations.
Dicky squirmed, yelled, and screeched so, that I feared
he would overdo it, but the schoolmaster was catis-
fled with giving him a moderate whipping, and then
proceeded to attend to me. I acted my part well and
bellowed rhythmically as each cut of the stick descended,
and though my share was elaborately inflicted, I felt it
only where some chance blows fell on my unprotected
arms. The next in turn, a witless dolt, wishing to ap-
pear plucky, would not cry, but kept a stupid grin on
his ugly face. I saw our danger and could have kicked
him, for Mr. Crumble, on hearing the clear sounding raps
produced by his stick, at once divined the cause, and
bade the boy doff his jacket. He did so, very re-
luctantly, when out dropped a copy-book. Then Mul-
linson made search, and found the culprit invested in
two pairs of pantaloons lined with copy-books. The
rest of us were also examined and found similarly padded.
When the obstacles were removed, Mr. Crumble recoin-
menced his task and gave us all a double allowance in
reward for our ingenuity.
The confiscation of the bow-gun and the floggings did
not deter us, however, from clubbing together and in-
vcsting our pocket-money in the purchase of a real,
genuine, wood-and-iron gun! It was an old Tower
musket, bought of the village blacksmith, who recom~
mended it strongly as having done good service in ~he
"Revolooshanary war" by laying low many a rascally Red-
coat. He expatiated, otherwise, on its extraordinary

qualities as a fowling-piece, but on this score (however
well adapted for patriotic purposes) it proved a failure,
for by reason of the conformation of the ~tock and a
burnt breech-pin its recoil was so forcible as to cause the
shooter to shut his eyes before pulling the trigger,
whereby much execution was prevented. However, we
didn't discover all that until we started off next Satur-
day, after breakfast, a knot of happy joyful boys to test
this formidable weapon. Myndert, obliging fellow, had
procured the ammunition, a blacking-box full of powder
and an old grammar for wadding. We tossed up for
first shot. I won, and shouldering the gun, away we
slily sped, brushing through a field of tall maize, over a
rail fence, and breaking cover in a shorn wheat-field.
Oh, the glee and buoyancy of fourteen, in tNck boots
and unspoilable clothes! tramping through the yellow
stubble, crushing clover and timothy, climbing rocks and
leaping ditches, but halt !-there on the woolly tip of a
mullein stalk flutters a yellow-bird. Beckoning to my
companions to keep silent, I raise the heavy musket, and
after a long interval of apprehension and unsteadiness
brace my nerves and pull the trigger. Bang!-the sharp
report echoes away and away among the hills, but the bird
has flown off uninjured, and a whoop of derision greets
my unsuccess. I am pale and indignant, and attribute
my failure to a surplus of wadding. The next sY~are-
holder whose turn it is, is ambitious, and aspires to kill
bigger game, a partridge or a meadowlark at least. So
on we trudge through a swamp-meadow with its grass
so gree~i and its springy sod; grasshoppers we scatter
at every footstep, and a little garter-snake discovered
gliding away is set upon and killed. hark to the short

K

42            GA1U~ET VA~ IIOT~.                                           GARRET' VA~ HORN.            43

A2

AS


44:

GARRET VAN HORN,

plaintive whistle of a quail-yonder! in that apple oi~~
chard somewhere among the hazel bushes along its Qdge.
A boy imitates the cry-a moment after, the bird re-
plies "Bob White !" Swiftly we hasten towards the
Bound, dashing through sumach and elder-bushes, and
over a black, muddy brook;. thung! thung! go the
frightened frogs as they dart into the water with a noise
like the snap of a banjo-string. "Bob White! Bob
White !"-still lures us on until we are now in the
orchard. Where is it? Now, all is silent. The very
locusts have hushed their shrilling at our approach.
We seek, but find not-perhaps it has flown into the
next lot among that clump of cedars? There! sure
enough, flutters something among the boughs. "A
partridge !" exclaims Myndert. "Lay low !" hisses the
boy with the gun, cocking it, and. bending down. We
stand motionless, while he stoops along quietly with ear
and eye alert; but nothing is seen or heard of the bird,
and at length he rises and is about to return, when,
whirr! out of the bushes close by his head rushes some-
thing brown-confused, he fires at random, and we hear
the shot pattering on the leaves and simultaneously a ~
howl-a human howl! We run behind the bushes and
behold Nosey Mason flat on his back, bawling, "Mur-
der! I'm shot-I'm killed !" Such consternation! we
raise poor wounded Nosey, and on examination find his
left leg badly peppered. The boy who caused this
accident is half frantic with terror, and offers Nosey all
he has about him, his knife, three cents, and a gimlet,
to mend the matter. But Nosey refuses, for Nosey is
a trump, promise~ not to tell Mr. Crumble, and says lie
won't mind it niucI~ if the doctors don't cut his leg oIL
A

I      ~        VAN HORN.
We reassure him on that point, and each, relates how he
has had far worse injuries than that. We hide the gun
in the woods, help our poor limping comrade along, and
concoct a story about the accident which effectually
exonerates us and misleads Mr. Crumble, in spite of all.
his sagacity, thanks to Nosey Mason's manliness.
Ill-starred Nosey Mason (his real name was ~ienzi
Mason), what a series of mishaps befell him! He was
the unluckiest fellow in school. lie was stung by
hornets, and bitten by dogs, and nearly terminated his
wretched existence in a variety of ways. Water, espe-
cially, was inimical to him; and on hot August after-
noons, when we broke bounds to bathe in the limpid
waters of the beautiful Bronx, near the old mill with
The sleepy pool above the darn,
The pool beneath it never still,
Nosey Mason, I say, came within an ace on two occa-
sions of being sucked through the race, and once,
attempting a vertical dive, en~ibedded his curly pate into
the soft mud to such a depth, that he never rose until
Myndert plunged in and extricated him by the leg.
A score more of such little adventures would I recount
were they as interesting to the reader as they are to
me, for I know no pleasures of memory like those con-
nected with boyhood-days spent in the country, peru.
haps because I now see nature but froni* the back of a
horse or the seat of a carriage, and can no longer
stretch, roll, or lie on the greensward beneath a branch-
ing tree; clothes and dignity alike forbidding it.
But to the thread of my story.

~4j

I


II
ii
I ~
4

GABI~ET VAN IGRTh

Although gifted with quick perception and a reten~
tive memory, I achieved but little as a scholar. These
very faculties, united to a good share of indolence,
greatly impeded my intellectual progress, and like the
hare in the fable I loitered by the wayside relying on
my powers, while duller boys outstripped me. What J
did learn beyond geography and arithmetic was entirely
parrot knowledge. I parsed and prayed about grammar
with but a vague idea of its application, and knew less
of it tfran can be acquired b&amp; one careful perusal of
Cobbett's admirable treatise. In history, of course, we
were served the classical and absurd fables of antiquity,
and a narrative of modern events,, often illogical and
illiberal, in this way cramming us with a mass of dis-
torted or exaggerated. facts that it takes years to eradi-
cate. Much of my time was taken up in the diligent
reading of novels, whose "pictured pages" I far pre-
ferred to those of Livy or Cwsar. I had also arrived at
that period of life when the blossoming of innate conceit
deluded me into the belief that I was wondrous wise,
and possessed of education enough for all the purposes
of life. Myndert I had heard so often disparaged, and
myself held up as the hope of the family, that, com-
pletely, convinced of my intellectual superiority, I re-
garded my less favored brother with a feeling akin to
affectionate contempt. Myndert, in truth, was dull-
looking and heavy at play, and his taciturnity ~nd
phlegm gave him the appearance of one on a short
allowance of brains. He was also slow to take a joke,
and easily "sold," and being withal good-natured, he
was made a butt of among the boys, who nicknamed
him "Chuckle-head Van Horn," and "Leo's ~" the

GARRET ~AN hORN.

47

latter appellation in consequence of the longitude of
those limbs. But he took it all in good part, until one
day he surprised us by an exhibition of unwanted anger
and pugnacity. The winter after we entered the school
there came two Cubans, brothers, slim, spindle-shanked
fellows they were, who shivered with cold in their linen
clothes, danced with glee on seeing the snow fhll, and
actually asked for chocolate at breakfast the morning
after their arrival. So outrageously funny ~ demand
became a standing joke, and Jgnacio and Jos6 were con-
tinually being asked whether they preferred chocolate
to burnt beans and hot water. One day, Dicky Prime
propounded this question for the hundredth time to
Ignacio, who, becoming enraged at the perpetual baiting
he was subjected to, gave the little fellow a sound
cuffing in. revenge. As Myndert was endeavoring to
separate them the Cuban drew his pocket-knife, when
Myndert clutched him by the throat to mak6 him drop
the weapon. Ignacio's 'brother ran to the rescue, and
also drawing a knife stabbed Myndert in the shoulder.
Luckily the wound was but a slight one, and Myiidert,
turning quickly on his new assailant, threw him on the
ground and gave him a severe pummeling. Of course,
Mr. Crumble brought his eloquence and rattan into play,
and all concerned, whether as principals, or accessories
before and after the fact, underwentthe sermon and chas-
tisement. But Myndert Vau Horn's reputation as" cock
of the walk "was established~ from that date, and the nick-
names "Chucklehead" and "Legs" were heard no more.
We spent our vacation at Communipaw. Fathe~',
you ixiay be sure, was exceedingly rejoiced to see his
boys; but he appeared to have got much older-looking

468

I


48          GARRET VAN HORN.                                        GAJ~RET VAN HORN.         49

during the short time we were away. It certainly was
so with Richmond; but then Richmond was so nrnch
farther advanced in age, that one could plainly perceive
every step he took towards the grave. The old negro
hardly recollected us at first; but when his feeble me-
mory brought us slowly back, he inquired where we had
been, and bustled about to prepare a dish of soft-crabs
for our delectation. Then father took us to all the
neighbors in succession, and exhibited us as daring
adventurers from distant regions. "Aunt Sall~r, here's
de boys !" he would ~ bursting open old Mrs. Vree-
land's kitchen door. "Dere dey bee~! dat's Myndert
dere-and dis' Garry 1', and ere the old dame had con-
cluded her stare at us through her spectacles, he was
oft' to some Van Winkh~, ~an Horn, or Garrabrant,
until the major part of the population of Communipaw
has passed us in review.
When the time for returning to school arrived it was
a great trial for father. He h~d no more heart than a
girl. We had been s~ constantly with him, and had
formed almost his sole society that, particularly since
Richmond had fallen into senility, he felt our absence
sorely. When we parted the tears filled his eyes, yet I
heeded it not; but Myndert and I speak about it very
often, now that he has floated far away from us on the
waves of time.
Myndert remained but six months longer at Mr.
Crumble's,; and at the expiration of that time was bound
apprentice, at his request, to Mr. Berg a ship-builder
6f New York, all his friends agreeing that he would
succeed better in ~j~ianual occupation than in an intel-
lectual one.

11 1

I was kept at school for a year after Myndert's de-
parture, during which time I suffered from a dangerous
illness, which seriously threatened my existence. But
tihe strength of a young constitution saved me. The
sickness proceeded from my accidentally eating some
poisonous mushrooms. It was customary every Satur-
day for a club of us to deflect ourselves with a sympo-
sium of our~ own concocting, such as a course of grilled
red-herrings, followed by green apples, or a wash-basin
full of oysters, and a dessert of crackers and cheese.
We had built a fire-place back of the school-house to
cook. our comestibles, and on one occasion we had. a
feast of more than ordinary suiiiptuousness. There were
fried cat-fish and roasted ears of maize, then stewed
mushrooms and frog-legs, and for dessert three big
water-melons. Unluckily among the mushrooms were
a few toad-stools, which toad-stools fell mostly to my
share. So between these delicacies, as it takes no phy-
sician to foresee, I was a very sick boy that following.
night. Another lad who had partaken of the toad-
stools was also taken ill, but soon recovered, Greedy
I, having probably eaten a greater share of those vile
fungi, was kept to my bed for a month. They removed
me from the dormitory to a separate bed-room, and well
do I remember those long tedious hours of convalescence
that followed the period of fever and pain. Wearily
dragged the days, broken but by the entrance of nurse
or physician, as I lay feeble in my little cot, transpos-
ing and tracing in my mind the arabesque scrolls on the
wall-paper, or listening to the shouts of my schoolmate
as they frolicked in the enjoyment of robust health.
how I longed to be among them I but their voices


GARRET VAN HORN.         51

50          GARRET VAN HORN.

reached me in strange distant sounds, &amp;s if I would never
~again see them, or mingle in their play.
When able to rise and walk about the room in a
dizzy, weak way, Mr.-~'4~ruKmbie kindly took me With
him for a ride on a fine bright day, and as we rode
along and the cool breeze fanned my thin cheek, my
a.        languid frame drank in large draughts of new life and
new strength at every respiration.
The fact of my illness had been studiously kept from
the knowledge bf my relations, but now that I was fast
regaining my pristine condition, Mr. Crumble informed
to the city at once, as change of air would no doubt
- Aunt Jane of it, who wrote back that I had better come
permanently establish my health, Glad* to comply
with her request, I determined in my mind that this
departure should be a final separation from school and
its duties.
When I arrived at Aunt Jane's, she sent word to
father, who caine immediately over to see me and was
quite alarmed to learn that .1 had been so near death's
door. He insisted on taking me back to Communipaw.
"Pshaw !" said Aunt Jane. "No one there lit you
and old Richmond, and you can hardly take care of
yourselves, let alone anybody else."
"You see, Jane, de boy '11 git quite strong of he oney
gits where dere's boats and salt-water."
So I did get strong, and enjoyed myself very much
with the "Gallinipper," and in leading astray by deceit.
ful art, confiding weakfish and bass. Once a week
Myndert came home, and these little family gatherings
were always sources of much delight to father; but
about this time we lost poor old Richmond, who drop~

pod off like an over-ripe pear. Father felt his loss
keenly, and Myndert endeavored to persuade him to
sell the farm and take up quarters with Aunt Sarah Van
Reypen, or Aunt Annake Briuckerhoff; his two remaining
sisters. "For," argued Myndert, "Qarry must leave
soon to live with Uncle Garret, and you'll be all alone,
then, father."
"Can't help it, Myndert," replied father, sadly,
"can't leave de old house, anyhow. No-no----dat
wouldn't do. You boys is young and you must make
your way in de world. My race is run and I'm out o'
bret' and must rist awhile. No-no----dem trees and
me, we stays here."
"Well-but, father, you can't stay here all alone.
Suppose you were to fall sick, why, you might even die
for the want of some one to help you," said Nyndert.
"Well, ef IL do die, I 'spose dat my time's bout come.
I guess I live so long now widout any sickness dat when
I does fall sick it 'ill be in earnest. Dc doctors won't
make much out 0" me."~
"Father-..fhther !" e5~claimed Myndert, "you musn't
say that. I'll get Aunt Sally to talk you into 1.eason.
I'm going round the village to invite all hands to make
themselves at home here, so if you want to get rid of a
crowd and savc expense, you'll have to move off to
Aunt Sally's, and she'll be mighty glad to have you
come, you know."
Myndert did attempt this stratagem, but without suc-
cess, and neither our cunning, nor Aunt Sally's and
Aunt A~rnake's persuasions, could induce "Mill-Kill
Jake" to leave the old homestead.


GARRET VAN hORN,          53

CHAPTER IV.
A. DEPEYSTER &amp; CO.
A  ~n now another recruit was added to that vast
army which is continually engaged in internecine
strife; of which each soldier's ambition is to acquire the
largest quantity of booty, and attain thereby the exalta-
tion invariably accorded to the g~ediest of spoils ;-to
take a place in the ranks and fight the battle of life-to
elbow, and trample, and struggle any way possible into
success. In more homely phraseology, I was about to
enter my uncle's counting-room as a junior clerk, and
had parted from the home of my childhood to abide with
my relatives in New York city.
The evenin~ of my arrival in Madison ~street, Uncle
- Garret addressed to me a few words on the subject of
my future career. In all the short interviews I previ-
ously had with him, he never exhibited any of that
interest in me one would naturally expect from a near

relative who designed to replace a parent; but my aunt
explained this by saying that, besides being of a re-
ticent character, he was always mucl~ preoccupied with
his business matters and had scarcely a moment to
think of anything else. Said he to me at tea-table:
"You are about,., you are 'bout. to . to. enter upon
a new . . . new sphere of action (he never lost time, if
possible, an~l interjected this little speech between bites
of toast and sips of tea). "A little advice, therefore,
before... entering upon... this., . this sphere is very
necessary. ~Iost folks imagine that to be . . . a clerk
or a book-keeper or even . . . a merchant is very easy
A very easy business and don't require much talent...
great n~stake. I consider that to be a * .a good ac-
countant even, and not one in a hundred that call them-
selves so, ~8 an accountant. . . that to be a geoff accoun-
tant requires years of toil and practice... A boy enters
a store oroffice. . he expects in a few years to be a mer-
chant . .~. and don't take pains to master the dQtails.
~ So that if we want to get.. to get a. a. thorough sys~
thematic book-keeper we must employ a foreigner
It is easy enough to make figures and to post, but.. but
all that is but . , . is but a small part . . . of the duty.
There is first, acdurs~cy, and circumspection, and method,
and all these things cannot be acquired . . . except by
long practice and by persons especially adapted for
them. Another main thing to success is . . . economy
without which all other advantages are.. are of no
avail. As I think it judicious to . . . to encourage it
among young people we will . . . allow you a certain-
salary, say.. say three dollars a week for the first year,
which is a very liberal compensation and much more


GA$RRBI' VAJ ~ hORN.         55

GARRET VAN HORN.

~Ii
I

than I received . . . at first. Out of this, we shaR
charge you ten shillings a week for your board and
washing.. then it will cost you.. cost you for your din-
ners down town, say three or four shillings at
utmost . . . leaving you . . . leaving you ten shillings a
week nett . . . f-or your clothes and so forth. Thus, if
you're economical, you cafr easily lay soinethin g aside
for the Savings Bank. It's a good plan.., to keep.,.
keep a little account-book of all your expenditures and
thus know where to retrench-I 'throw out these hints
for your future guidance, and above them, Ii enjoin you
in all your dealings tQ be honest !"
Whilst he was talking I was seeking a clue to his
character; but I was too young, and too inexperienced in
reading the indices to man's nature, and his countenance
proved a riddle to me. There was some resemblance
between his smooth, blanched, immovable features and
my father's rugged, discolored face; both had the light-
blue eyes of the family, but while you could look into
the clear depths of Jacob's, Garret's looked into yours,
and their quick, penetrating glance told of a habit of
weighing men and motives.
"To-morrow 'morning," added he,. "at half-past
seven, you will be at the office to enter on your new
duties."
With that he returned thanks in succinct terms for
the meal vouchsafed to us, drew on his overcoat, and
left the house to attend a board-meeting.
"Your uncle's always so busy about something or
other that I scarcely ever have a chance to speak a
word to him. Dr. Rose says he don~t get enough

recreation. Still he enjoys good health, while I have
such dreadful headaches. Now, I do hope, Garret, you
will try and please him, and I haven't the least doubt
but what you will," said Aunt Jane, as we went into
the parlor to spend the remainder of the evening. This
was the same large gloomy double-room in which Myn-
dert and I had b6en left two yea&amp;s before. There was
something so cloistral about the house, such~ a tomb-
like stillness reigned there, that you instinctively felt
you were in the home of a man of ascetic nature. An
astral lamp shed a dim, religious light over the apart-
ment, shadowing several pictures of Scriptural subjects
on the walls, and faintly revealing a covered piano in
one corner that suggested a palled sarcophagus. The
very mantel clock ticked with a smothered sound, and
the fire in the grate burned noiselessly. All this de-
pressed my spirits so, that in spite of Aunt Jane's affec-
tionate welcome, I almost wished myself l3ack in Coin-
munipaw. When Aunt Jane took up her sewing I
sought for something to read and amuse inc. On the
centre table lay a card-basket and a pyramid of beauti-
ful books, with a large timeworn family Bible forming
the base. Among these volumes were "Byfield on
Colossians," "The Pilgrim's Progress," Baxter's "Dying
Thoughts," Baxter's "Saints' Rest," and other rehigiois
works, all so gorgeously bound as almost to belie the
teachings of humility contained in them. I opened the
"Saints' Rest," and on the fly-leaf read: Presented to
~ks. J Van horn, as a toJ~3n of esteem, by her friend
Edmund Rose, Dec. 26th, 1 8-. This work not being
to my tast6, I laid it aside and turned over the others;
but their titles did not tempt me to a perusal.

ill

B
1~


66           GARRET VA~ H0U~'O                                             GARRET VAN HOR~

"Don't you find anything you would like to read ?"
asked Aunt Jane.
~'o," replied :i:.
"Maybe I can get something that would interest you
more," and opening a drawer of her work-table, she
pulled out from among the laces and thread two
volumes. They were "Paul Clifford."
"They're novels to be sure-part of it is very flinny,
and some quite sad. Doctor Rose lent them to inc.
You'd better take them up into your room, and be care-
ful not to leave them laying about, for though there's no
harm in them, your uncle don't altogether approve of
such books."
.1 read until Aunt Jane, looking at the clock, said:
is most time for your uncle to return, Garret. I
think I'd better show you your room," and she led the
way up the stairs to the third story. "There," said
she, opening the door, "I hope you'll be comfortable.
If there's anything wanting you've only to mention it,
and you shall have it."
It was a large handsomely furnished bed-chamber,
with a new carpet, new mahogany bedstead, and toilet-
stand, chairs, and bureau to match. Everything about
the room appeared so neat, tasty, and cosy, that de-
lighted I exclaimed: "Oh, Aunt Jane! how kind you
are to have taken so much trouble for me-how shall I
thank you?"
"Pshaw, child. Give me your trunk-key and I'll pn~
your clothes away;" and in a litle while she had placed
all my linen in the drawers, and hung my coats and
trowsers in the closet; then bidding me good night, she
said, "That Dible on the~ table is your uncle's present

I hope you won't neglect it, and now you'd better say
your prayers and go to bed, as you'll have to get up
early to-morrow morning, and be careful about putting
out the light, as w&amp;re all dreadfully afraid of fire."
So pleased was I at my apartment that I spent a long
time in examining every nook, corner, and article in it.
Perfectly satisfied with my acquisition I wound up an
obese silver watch, that father had given to me, and laid
it on a little ebony watch-stand provided for its recep-
tion. Then my eye falling on the two volume~, I
resumed reading Paul Clifford. So absorbed was I in
this romance that the hours passed unwittingly by, and
I was only arrested by some loud-mouthed clock strik-
ing one, when, remembering my aunt's injunction, I
hastened into bed. But the novelty of my situation and
the events of the day c~iused a nervous excitation which
prevented me from sleeping, and I tossed about rest-
lessly for another. hour or so. In this condition, I was
led for the first time to reflect upon the change in my
position, and the importance of the step I was taking
into a new world. My destiny, I perceived, was in my
hands, and it needed but well-directed efforts to make it
a happy and successful one: Youth may be, as Roche-
foucauld says, a continual intoxication and the fever of
reason; but it hath its sober moments. I resolved from
that instant to cast aside all the freaks and nonsense of
boyhood; to lay all my uncle's precepts to heart; to
strive to emulate hi~ career, and become such a man.
Whilst cogitating thus, and indulging in plans for the
future, a-weary with thought and excitement I glided
into slumber.
8*

V

56


58             GARRET VA~T ~                                                        GARRET YA~ HORN~

A rap on the door awakened me the next morning.
"It is quite late, Garret, the breakfast-bell rang long
ago," said Aunt Jane. "Your uncle would not let me
call you before. Come down as soon as you can."
I dressed myself hurriedly and descended. Mr. Van
Horn had already left the house, and swallowing my
breakfast I hastened after him.
~fr. Garret Van Horn Senior's place of business was in
South street, not far from Coffee-house Slip. I-Ic occu-
pied the lofts over a ship-chandler's, and you saw above
the stairway a weather-beaten sign on which could
barely be deciphered the semi-effaced inscription of "A.
Depeyster &amp; Co." The original "A.," or Abraham,
had been lately gathered to the tomb of the Depeysters in
Trinity churchyard, and now the firm consisted hut of
Garret Van Horn, senior partner and manager, and
Abraham Cruger Depeyster, junior partner and manager.
The counting-room was on the second floor, a small
low-ceiled place divided by partitions and sashes into
two offices. The furniture was very old and dingy, and
the whitewashed walls were ornamented with a few
dusty maps, a rack of cards, and a model of the Abra-
ham Depey8ter packet-ship placed in state over a small
wooden clock. The house was largely engaged in the
China trade, and. the lofts being' almost constantly filled
with chests of tea, mats of fragrant cassia, cases of pre-
served ginger and other products of the spicy md, we
may say the clerks breathed continually the atmosphere
of the Central Flowery Kingdom.
Were there no other evidence, the antique and well-
worn appearance of the appurtenances of the atetier8 of
A. Depeyster &amp; Co. would have sufficiently attested that

Mr. V.~n Horn possessed at least that essential to~ coin.
mercial success, economy, for the scarred desks and
stools were the same he had dusted when employed as
errand-boy by old Abraham; from those chipped and
crusted inkstands his inexperienced pen had niado its
first scrawls in the books of the house, and now he che-
rished them with the strength of long attachment, No
luxurious stationery did he admit into that mercantile
hive; no laid letter-paper, no patent inkstands nor copy-
ing presses; bankruptcy he belieki in Russia bindings
and for a long time obstinately resisted the innovation
of steel-pins.
When I entered, Mr. Van Horn looked up at the
clock. "Ab, Garret, I thought you were not coming.
I told you half-past seven and it is now a quarter to
eight. Mr. J-Jogg, our clock is correct, is it not ?"
"Yes, sir, I believe it is," replied Mr. Hogg, the book-
keeper, referring to his time-piece.
"What does your watch say, Garret?" continued Mr.
Van Horn.
A little abashed, I pulled it out and said it agreed
with the other time-keepers.
"You see, Garret, you are behind-hand. That's a
bad beginning; we like to be punctual in this office.
You must remedy that. Mr. llogg, this is Mr. Garret
Van Horn, a nephew of mine, lie is to be employed in
this office. You will please instruct him in his duties.
-Mr. Krolz, are the duplicates of' the 'Algonquin's'
letters ready? The bags close at ten. Draw on Over-
end's for GOGO pounds at oo days and inclose the first to
Hope &amp;r Co., for our credit, by same mail. Send it to
me and. I will sign it."


60          GARRET VAN HORN.                                           GARRET VAN HORN.          01

After issuing these mandates in a quiet, peremptory
tone, my uncleretired behind the partition which fQrmed
his private office.
Mr~ Hogg stationed me at a small desk near a window
that afforded a cheerful view of the wharves opposite,
and of the shipping, which lay so close that their pro-
jecting jib-booms nearly touched our upper windows. -
I was furnished with a package of letters, told to docket
them neatly and tear off the blank leaves for future use.
I had but just ensconced myself on a stool when my
uncle reappeared with some bills of exchange in his h~md
and the inevitable quill, as well worn as Gibbon's, be~
hind his ear. Casting. a glance at me, he said; "Garret,
you had better not sit at your desk. Standing is more
business-like and--um--better for the chest,"
I put the 'stool aside and recommended my work.
-After having docketed the letters, a fresh lot were given
to me to copy into a letter-book. This I found a tedi-
ous job, and was not able to finish it without assistance
in time for the mails. At twelve o'clock I received din-
ne~-money from Mr. llogg, and my uncle took me to an
eating-house near by. It was a cheap refectory, the
dishes costing but six cents each. We had a plate
* apiece of corned-beef and cabbage, and dumplings for
dessert. What bay and oats are to horses was corned-
beef-and-cabbage tq IJhcle Van Horn. It was his staple
article of consumption, an4 that he dined on it at least
two hu~dxed lines in the ypar, is po exaggeration to
.say.
At one. o'clock the junior partner, Mr. Abraham
Cruger Depeystor, made his appearance. A m~u, was
be, of collar i~i~id ~mcI luxuriant whisker, who wont io

a small looking-glass, passed his hand through his locks
so glossy, took ten minutes to examine a pimple on his
nose which seemed to concern him much, said, "Fine
day" to Mr. Van Horn who, busy writing, returned a
brief "Very," entered the clerks' room, stared like a
stricken calf at me for three minutes, reentered the
inner cell trying to whistle an opera-air he had heard the
night before, and not succeeding made an effort to be
interested in a Liverpool "Prices-Current ;" failing again,
he skilfully dusted his bright boots with his pocket-
handkerchief, re-inspected the pimple, and finally, ex-
hausted by these achievements, said with a yawn that if
they didn't want him for anything "special" he guessed
he'd go to dinner,
This was about the measure of my first day's expert
ence of mercantile life, The following day I was com~
imtted to the charge of a lad, also a junior clerk, to be
initiated into the labyrinthine ways and multifhrious
formalities of the Custom house. This I found very
tedious and uninteresting business, and was glad to learn
from 1~Xr. Hogg that I was not to be permanently em-
ployed at it.
Not long after, the Sooloo, one of the ships belong-
ing to the firm, returned from Canton. The morning
~Wter her arrival, a short bulky man wit~h a fiery face
entered the office. This was the captain of the Sooioo,
Caleb Bunker by name, a Marblehead man. It is an in-
dubitable fact that marfuers, those dwellers on the
ocean, lose much of their national cast of countenance,
and that the distinctive mould of face ~vhich the lands-
men of various countries possess from climatic or other


62             GARRELII VAN HORN.                                                   GARRThT VAN HORN.              63

causes becomes generally obliterated i~i those whose
homes are on the deep. Thus, one may see French
sailors who might well pass muster for British tars;
Spanish patrons who could, without incongruity, com-
mand high-decked schooners out of Passamaquoddy
Bay; and Captain Bunker's phiz might as appropriate-
ly have belonged to the skipper of an Amsterdam.
galliot or to the master of a Leith smack. -
Mr. Van I-Torn was writing when the ship-master en-
tered, and though he had not seen him for a twelve-
month he continued his work without stopping, simply
and curtly answering the sailor's gruff greeting.
Captain Bunker sat him down by the stove, squliting
tobacco-juice and swabbing his blazing face at inter-
vals with a red pungee handkerchief.
Five minutes had elapsed crc Mr. Van horn spoke.
"Now, Cap'n," said he, "I've just a quarter of an hour
to spare to you, for I must be at the Bank by nine.
What kind of a passage? Teas and silks gone up since
the trouble ? ~Did you leave the Dart at Cum-sing-
moon
"The Dart had left for Foo-chow. Teas is gone up-.
so is silks, some. You'll see by the letters. We had a
fine passage-passed the Straits, , Angier, , etc.,
- -    etc." The Captain was as sententious as his employer,
and spoke as if reading extracts from his log.
"You had some trouble with the pirates off Formosa,
going out, I learnt by the 'Confucius?'"
I pricked up my ears at this question and listened
eagerly.
"Yes, some. In lat.,-, long1-, 'bout four bells
in Mr. Phrney'~ watch, three junks bore down on our

larboard quartei~-hailed 'em. First thing we knowed,
kgan throwing stink-pots-when I ordered,"
"Stop a moment, Captain," interrupted Mr. Van
1-loin, who noticed me listening with cycs, cars, and
mouth; "Garret, take this letter to the Post-office at
once." And so, the reader and I lost the story of Capt.
Bunker's engagement with the L~adrone pirates.
The staff of clerks attached to the house of' A. Dc-
veyster &amp; Co. comprised seven. Mr. Hogg, book-keeper
in                                ~   , .~.r. Krolz,
chief; Mr. Otter, assistant book-keener
CQrr~s~ondin~ clerk; and four subalterns. Mr. ilo~'~

and Mr. Krolz were the oldest two. Mr. Ilogg was
an English man, and had been in the service of the firm
for twenty-five years, and durhig that tin-ic had laid aside
from his salary enough to purchase a snug little house
and plot of ground at Gowanus, where he and his wife
resided in all possible comfort. The old couple were
childless, and all the pleasure plodding Mr. llogg knew,
was in keeping a neat set of books and delving and
trimming in his garden at Gowanus. Mr. Krolz was a
German, erudite and master of several languages and
therefore an inValuable clerk as we transacted business
with natives of many countries; a stoutish, near-sighted
n-ian with a flat florid face and protruding eyes; very
grave, very attentive- to his work, and who seldom
spoke; perhaps because 1-ic thought so much and smoked
so much. Mr. Van horn suspected him of being an
atheist from the fact of his spending summer Sundays
at Sul)urban beer-houses; and for this ofi'cnco would
doubtless have discharged him had it been possible to
dispense with his services, Both Xc and 2Mr. lbgg were

63

62


GARRET VAN HORN.       435

64           GARRET VAN ~iOR~T.

obliging men, and took such pains to instruct me in my
duties that I have always held them in pleasant remem-
brance. Mr. Otter was much younger than they, but
mo~-e active and keen-witted. Part of his duties con-
sisted in taking charge of Mr. Van Horn's priv~ite
affairs, for the senior partner~ had ether transact ions
~besides those connected with the firm, and was largely
engaged in the purchase of bills and promissory notes,
vulgarly known as shavingo' paper," from which extra-
neous source he added annually to his income some ten
thousand 'dollars or so, all earned by the simple but po~.
tent application of his signature, and without any outlay
of capital.
This Otter had come~ into the olfloe a raw country
lad, and had worked his way up by tact and business
talenL Being ~rnabitious, he was very jealous of me,
until he discovered that I was not qualifled to interfere
with his plans. I soon learnt to dislike him, for ho was
a mean sycophant and schemer. He studied Mr. Van
~iorn, and knew that gentleman thoroughly and how to
please him. The fellow had without doubt much ability
in his way; but he was so mean, ~awirng, and supple,
that if he had failed to prosper it would c~rtaiuly have
been from no fault of his, lie had ingratiated himself
into his employer's confidence by his aptness, shrewd-
ness, and devotion. to the interests of the house; and
the wonder was, that acute Mr. Van horn did not dis-
cover what was patent to. obtuse folks, for Otter had
such fulsome ways of exhibiting his ibigned affection for
his employer, such as brushing a lIt tie du~t from his
coat with the tender sdicitudc of a toady, arranging his
cravat-tie, or wiping hi~ spectacles, that, whi~o the

object of these small attentions accepted them so gravely,
they provoked the mirth of evem the colored porter.
OtteP was striving as an important step in his ad-
vancement to supplant old Mr. Hogg, in his position of
chief.accountant and confidential clerk, and to effect this
was constantly spying over the bookkeeper and ~silly
reporting all his little short-comings to Mr. Vai~ Horn.
Otter was likely enough to succeed in his object, for Mr.
Hogg was aged, and forty years of drudgery at the
desk and continued staring a~ white paper had begun to
affect eyesight and accuracy.
There was another clerk named Jeremiah Teed, who
attended to the Custom House business. As he was
about my own age we formed a companionship, to which
I shall have occasion to revert in another chapter.
I,


L

GARRET VA~ HORN~

I
II
II

CHAPTER V.
U~WLE GARRET
F ou more than six months after my introduction to the
house of A. Depeyster &amp; Co., I was an estimable
youth. I rapidly~ acquired a knowledge of the details
and routine of business, and being expert at figures
began to be quite useful. In short, I conducted myself
in so exemplary a manner, both at the office and. at
home, as to obtain my uncle's entire approbation, and an
increase of salary.
For more than six months, say two hundred days, or
forty-eight hundred hours, I steadfastly held by the re-
solves I had made on the memorable night of my arrival.
No better behaved or more proper lad could there be
than I was at this time. I sought no other recreation
than an occasional visit with my brother to our father's,
and employed my evenings in reading, in listening to
the serious conversation of my uncle's visitors, or in
N

A

67

cultivating the clarinet, for which instrument I had.
acquired a taste from Mr. Mullinson, ~vho, let me men-
tion, was almost as proficient on the reed as on the
string. The profluent melody, however, it must be
~aid in passing, soon became displeasing to Uncle Garret,
who had no ear for music, and I was forced to confine
my practising to the stable-loft. Moreover, I signed the
teetotal pledge, and entered the Cold-water Army; in-
deed, I was secretary to the Acqua-Pura Lodge of the
Sons of the Old Oaken Bucket, and in the words of the
eloquent president thereof; " enlisted against King
Alcohol and the cohorts of Rum." I also joined a
Bible-class, and once ev~ry Thursday and thrice every
Sunday went to church, to the old East Dutch Church
where Dr. Westervelt held forth, and of which Uncle
Garret was a deacon and one of the oldest and most
respected members. Sometimes the sewing circle of
that church met at our house. This was a society of
the ladies of the congregation who assembled once
a week to sew for the destitute. These were not only
charitable gatherings, but also very pleasant ones, and
when they occurred at her house, Aunt Jane would
always prepare a little entertainment for her visitors,
and this, by the by, was about the nearest approach to
a party ever given between the four walls of our deco-
rous home; anything more worldly and brilliant being
interdicted by Mr. Van Horn, much against, be it said,
Mrs. Van Horn's inclinations. It was somewhat of a
compromise between the pair in this respect, for the
husband, although he disapproved of such things, allowed
his wife to indulge in jewellery and gay dresses in return
for her abnegation in other matters of vanity and show.


GARRET VAN flORi~.          69

68          GARRET VAN HORN.

These sewing~circle meetings occasioned much lACa~
sure; not only by reason of their benevolent object,
~it must be said, for though the ladies loved not the poor
less they loved gossip more; gossip, in truth, that often
verged on scandal. But that did not occur, mind you,
until the graver and more sedate portion of the com-
pany had left. One evening I recollect well, at our
house, they were all as meek and demure as mice while
Dr. Westervelt was present; but after he had. gone and
my uncle had retired to bed-.which he always did at
ten o'clock, at the latest, let what would happen-aud
some other solemn folks had c1isappeared, the remainder
became as lively and merry as possible. Dr. Rose, the
one whose name I had seen on the fly-leaf of the
"Saints' Rest," was present. lie was leader of our
church choir, and a very agreeable young man, and so
full of fun that lie kept them all constantly laughing.
Aunt Jane became brisk and bustling, -and Mrs. Robin-
son, a comely young widow with long black pensile
ringlets, entreated the Doctor to sing, and sing he did
very finely. Then, Aunt Jane having alluded to my
clarionet-playing, the Doctor insisted on my favoring
them~with a specimen. So, after a deal of coaxing I
bashfully produced the pipe and tooted harmoniously
"Days of Absence," and "Blue-Eyed Mary," at the
conclusion of which the Doctor said that there was
much "talent there," and that it ought to be " de-
veloped." "And by the by," added he, "our organ-
blower has left us in rather a cavalier way, and we shall
want another next Sunday. How would you like the
place, Garret? Nothing like commencing at the foot
of the ladder. I shouldn't wonder if we saw you leader

of th~ Euterpeans yet. Salary's a dollar a week, and
you might as well have it for pocket money as not."
"Don't mention about the pay to your uncle, Garret,
he wouldn't like to have you earning money on the
Sabbath," said Aunt Jane.
My religious scruples, however, did not extend so far,
and thanking Ji)r4Rose, II told him I accepted his propo-
sal.
Meanwhile, Aunt Jane had gone up stairs to see, as
she said, whether the noise disturbed her husband. Find-
big him sound asleep she returned, went to a book-case,
and took from some hiding nook a pack of cards. The
centre-table was cleared and I was induced to take a
hand at cards as Mrs. Robinson's partner, while the
Doctor good-naturedly initiated me into the mysteries
of whist. By this time the rest of the company had
left, and so we f~ur had a very diverting time of it. The
Doctor, Mrs. Robinson, and Aunt Jane laughed and
talked about a great many people with whom I was un-
acquainted, and we did not leave our amusement until
long past midnight. Said Aunt Jane, when Dr. Rose
and Mrs. Robinson had gone; "Garry, you'd better
not mention anything about this to your uncle; he has
such queer notions, you know, about many things."
Unfortunately I had the perceptive bumps well deve-
loped, and these little concealment and inconsistencies
of my aunt did not pass unnoticed by me.
Who Dr. Rose was, nobody knew, heyon-d his being
a young physician who had just returned from Europe,
whither he had gone to complete his medical education.
StU'IThSCS and rumors aboat huin were afloat in abun-

El

68


70          GARRET VAN HORN.                                     GARRET VAN flORNO        71

dance, all of them about as correct as surmises and
rumors generally are. Suffice it to say, that he ~vas a
PhiladellAlian who took greatly with the ladies, although
wherein lay his attractive power a masculine mind would
have been puzzled to discover, for, beyond fine black
curly hair and whiskers and black silky eyes cunning
and furtive, he was a very ordinary looking mortal;
more likely was it owing to a melodious voice, to his
tasty attire, and jaunty gentlemanly carriage; these
last attributes being even more potent, as we are aware,
over female susceptibilities than beautiful features, Mrs~
Van Horn made his acquaintance through his attending
our church.. He came there regularly and was devout,
tristful, and modest in his appearance, so much so as to
attract the attentionn of many ladies, who were not so
very attentive to the sermon but that they found time
to notice and admire that quality in others. When the
leader of the choir fell sick, he supplied his place, and
drilled the choristers into greater efficiency. All in
black, was he, with crape around his hat; a bereaved
widower, it was reported, aged twenty-eight, who wore
constantly a miniature of his deceased wife between his
heart and waistcoat. This curedd his popularity, for
how were the ladies of the East Dutch congregation,
those at least who had hearts to feel and eyes to see, to
resist such an accumulation of attractive qualities? He
was installed in their best graces at once!
To Mr. Van horn he commended himself by the zeal
he manifested in the cause of religion, and subsequently
by his professional skill in curing some little ailment with
which my uncle was afflicted. Eve long there was 1)0
more welcome visitor at our house than the courtly

young physician, and it may be a4ded no more frequent
one. He would criticism a sermon pr discuss commer-
cial topics, as the case might be, with the husband, or
entertain the xvife with small talk and the current gossip
about fashion and folks of fashion. He was very atten-
tive to this lady, and presented her at various Pines with
books of a substantial and nourishing character, such
s "Byfield on Colossians," "Quarles' Emblems," and
Baxter's works. lie had travelled much, and had the
knack of describing what he had seen in an inter-
esting way, and being withal of an obliging disposi-
tion how could he fail to be prepossessing and popu-
lar?

7&amp;

V
K
K
~k /
V

Occasionally after morning service on Sundays he
would accompany Mr. and Mrs. Van Horn home and
partake of their noon-day repast, although our Sunday
dinners were not at all tempting, but on the contrary
frugal and cold, for, if there was any commandmeitt
Mr. Van Horn sought to obey to the letter, it was the
one enjoining the keeping holy of the Sabbath day.
Then no work not absolutely indispensable, was permit-
ted to be done in his house; the meals were all prepared
on Saturday, and triplicate sets of china and silver were
provided to obviate the necessity of cleaning any before
Monday; the horses were never disturbed, and every
opportunity was given to the servants to improve the
sacred day. Of course, the servants were all Pro-
testants at least, if not Calvinists, for next to a Jew,
Mr. Van Horn hated a Papist, and none stood higher in
his favor than Dennis Dooley the coachman, for that
honest Corkonian, originally bred for the Popish pi est-
hood, had, by a merciful interposition, been rescued from

70

71


I ~
I;

I
I

. e
. y

72             GARRET VAN 2EIOIRN.
the pit of errors and now, contrite and corpulent, pre-
ferred his humble, virtuous calling, to the pomp and
luxury of the prelates of Rome. There was no doubt,
eitl)er, about the sincerity of Dennis' conversion, for he
invariably gorged himself with meat on Fridays, and
devoted himself heroically to a series of indigestions
during Lent.
I cannot say I fully concurred in my uncle's views
about cooking on Sundays, but Dr. Rose apparently
did, for he often relinquished his landlady's hot dinners
to, as I said before, partake of our cold joint and vege-
tables. One Sunday morning I had heard a sermon
that I fancied remarkably impressive, and I said so to
my aunt at dinner.
"Yes, very fine," she replied. "Don't you think so,
Mr. Van Horn ?"
"Very," said Uncle Garret; "I don't think I ever
heard Dr. Westervelt make a finer prayer."
"I think," said Dr. Rose, who was present, "that
his allusion to the Star of Bethlehem was strikingly
beautiful."
"Did you notice that gentleman in the Ogdens' pew ?"
asked Aunt Jane.
"Yes; I've noticed him several times with the Ogden
girls," said Dr. Rose; "which is the one he is paying
attentions to ?"
"Amelia, I suppose," said Mrs. Van horn; "I shouldn't
think he'd fancy such a fright as Maggie is. His name's
Mortimer Dangle, and he's a nephew of Mrs. I~neb-
betts'. Those rich ones you know,~-who made such a
fuss at ~Parie."

c~A~RET VAN non~

73
"She's got the purse-hasn't she ?" hiqudred Mr.
Van I-Torn through a mouthful of beef.
"Yes, I think so. Her father is Mr. flambo of Phi-
ladelphia."
"Ah! I thought it couldn't be Knehbetts, for ho
has failed twice to my knowledge, and hasn't settled
with his creditors yet. How much is Mr. Hambo esti-
mated to be worth? You should know, Doctor ?" said
Mr. Van horn, who always liked to know how people
stood, financially speaking.
"From a million to a million and a half;" replied the
doctor.
"Indeed," said Mr. Van Horn, and he set Mr. Hambo
down as a highly respectable man.
~' Mr. Mewsbury wasn't in church this morning, he
must be sick yet. How old Mrs. Crawfield's getting to
look, isn't she ?" said Mrs. Van Horn.
'No older than her age," said Dr. Rose.
"Now, Doctor, you knGw that's unkind. But she will
di ess so youthful, and wear such quantities of' flowers.
Mrs. Robinson says she met her at the Morris' party,
and she actually looked frightful in short sleeves and
low-neck dress. Isn't it ridiculous? and I've heard
that her hair isn't her OWn; but of course, she can't
help that if, she's lost it, and it's warmer in winter I
suppose. What do you think of Mrs. Qucezy's hat?
that's the new style Madame Bongtone tells me. Would
you get one like it. ?"
"I don't exactly fancy the trimming," said Dr. Rose.
It appears to me that a delicate shade of lilac would
be preferable to the cerise."
"Perhaps it would," etc. etc. etc.
4

73


GARIIET VAN EORN.

GARRET vAN iiO~Th

I ~
~1

And they continued this frivolous stiram of talk which
struck me, still impressed by the sermon ~ had heard,
as exceedingly vain and inappropriate to the day. Can
it be, reasoned I, that these people have already, for-
gotten the tremendous import of the preacher's words;
words still vibrating in my ears, and of such vital in-
terest to all ?-and were their thoughts during\ worship
wandering on such trivialities as Their neighbors' gar.
ment~? They all profess to be proper ~hristians, yet how
can this heedlessness accord with theiiS professions?
And in this way was I led into a new train of reflec-
tion which bore its fruit as you shall presently see.
Another Sunday, while I was up in the organ-loft of
the East Dutch church busily plying the bellows-lever,
for, not to be ungrateful, I must ihention that Dr. Rose
had procured for me ~he post of assistant organist as he
had promised; and as IL said, I was busy plying the
bellows while the chojr were singing that beautiful
hymn "I would not live alway," when I saw, clearly,
distinctly, and unmistakably, Dr. IRose (the bass) who
was standing by the side of the soprano (the pretty
widow, Mrs. Robinson) take that soprano's hand in his
own and give it a caressing squeeze I So amazed was I
at this indecorum,5o shocked at the sacrilege of
courting in church, ihat I quite forgot to ply the. lever,
and the bellows consequently collapsing, the melody
died away in a ridiculous squeak that set many of the
cpngregatiOn a.tittering. Mrs. Robinson colored and
snatched he.i hand away from the doctor's; Mr. Shafi'er,
the organist-in-chief~ was furious; whilst I, all confusion
and fear, worked away at the lever with desperate
energy to repair my fault; but it was too late, Mr.

74

r

Shaffer never forgave me, and I wa~ discharged from my
post for neglect otduty.
These conversations and incidents were not lost on
me, and did not tend to increase my respect for church
people. I began to open my eyes and ears, and to
think; and youth thinks so seldom, that when it does
its cogitations are not without some effect. So in try-
ing to reconcile certain incongruous things, I evolved
conclusions not at all flattering to some of my- relatives
and friends. Especially in regard to my uncle and aunt
had I noticed instances of inconsistency which sei~ved to
strengthen suspicions that were fast becoming convic-
tions in my inexperienced mind. I decided in fact, that
my uncle was not much short of' a hypocrite; that reli-
gion with him ~vas merely a matter of form, and with
my aunt but a matter of fashion. And were all church-
members so? Yes, I argued with boyish inconsequence,
for are not these considered pillars of piety? It was a~
dangerous thought for me; and the crumbling away, as
it were, of my belief in human sincerity and truth.
how the steeple-like, unapproachable grandeur of Mr.
Van ibm's respectability lessened in my estimation;
how I, a boy, conquered my awe and dared to weigh his
merits and pronounce an unfavorable verdict upon them,
were a long story to tell; Certain circumstances, in par-
/
ticular, which occurred at the counting-room, and certain
deductions therefrom, were the chief agents in under-
mining my belief in Mr. Van ibm's reputation. As a
hero is to his valet, so is a merchant to his clerks. lie
may be impenetrable to the world, but from his quill-
driving Iacqieys he cannot, hide lii~ llaQtiVe$ and must

75

K


I

I'
76             GARRET VAN [10
expose himself bared to their so:
never so sly, let him assume every
esty, yet the tricks, subterfuges,
patent to his employed ones, and
faithlessness, over-reaching, and 1k
d          secret scorn or derision.
Once, while auditing an account
a Baltimore correspondent, I disern
additions which gave us one hundr
just due. I pointed this out to
merely said; "Au, well I dare say
takes the other way which we ha
so I would say nothing abdut t
When he turned his back, Mr. Ot
to Mr. I(rolz; Otter! the supple
accommodating, active, attentive,
Van Horn's face, hardly daring to
like the sagacious sycophant he w~
To be ~sure, none of the clerks h
of their employer~in.chieg as I soor
they were somewhat reticent in r
my kinship with him. They grun
pay, and compared his close-dealli
lavishness in other directions, foi
notice that while it was a dillon]
obtain a small increase of salary,
any plausible gentleman to indr
contribute liberally to any public 12
clerks, we know, are never satisfied(
as the saying, is, business is busine~
ingly a stupid saw, hath a meaning~
well understood, for there was a

GARRET VAN HORN.

77

RN.
mutiny. Let hini be
air of pompous hon..
lies, double-dealing,
navery of trade, are
he an object of their
;.sales sent to us by
iered an error in their
ed dollars beyond our
Mr. Van horn, ~x~ho
they have made mis~
ye never discovered;
his and let it pass~"
ter winked knowingly
efficient toady! So
and respectful to Mr.
speak above a whisper
as!
ad an exalted opinion
i discovered, although
ny presence, owing to
ibled much about their
~g with them with his
they could iiot fi~il to
It matter for them to
.t was easy enough for
ice Mr. Van horn to
enefaction. But then,
IL with their wages, and
~s, which, though seem-
which Mr. Van Horn
sir, Van. Horn, a lever

or spring in the engine called A. Depeyster &amp; Co., and
another Mr. Van horn, citizen, and deacon of the
East Dutch church, and while as the lever or spring he
hesitated not to send a ship to sea or to hire riggers and
stevedores to work on the Lord's day, yet as a citizen
and deacon he could not permit his man-servant, his
maid-servant, the horses in his stable, nor the stranger
within his gatos to use muscle and tendon in a forbidden
way on the first day of the week.
~or was the thieving of the one hundred dollars the
only act that struck me as entirely irreconcilable with
honorable conduct. On another occasion, among the
letters I had brought from the Post-office was one for
Mr. Depoyster, which, as was customary, I laid on his
private desk. A small note, it was, superscribed in a
woman's hand-writing, which attracted Mr. Van Horn's
attention. When I left the inner office, he care-
fully closed the door of the blurred-glass part~ion
which separated him from the clerks' room, and as I was
about resuming my task of copying a "manifest," I saw
through a swinging pane, partly open and in range With
my desk, Mr. Van Horn take the note, detach the wafer,
and read the contents; afte~ which he careftdly resealed
arid replaced the missive. Had I caught my uncle pick-
ing pockets I could not have been more astounded!
And his composure while doing the sneaking act, aggra-
vated what I had been taught to believe Was the basest
betrayal of confidence possible. I was much shocked~
and in? my inexperience puzzled to understand how a
man capable of such a deed, could have acquired a wide-
spread reputation for honor and integrity, but I disco:
vered more afterwards that baffled my efforts to analyze

~'4j

&amp;
r 7


Ii
II
11
lii'
111,;
ill
A
4
II
11

and classify poor, weak, human nature. I was a fresh
man in the great college of t1~ie world, but ore I bad
left the employ of A. Depeyster &amp; Co., I began to learn
how beset with temptations is a mercantile \Jife; how
infallible it begets a love of lucre, the root jf all evil,
and how insensibly it will blunt a conscience keenly sen-
sitive to the slightest deviation' from integrity and
honor. I learnt, also, that a profuse charity could be
associated with meanness and dishonorable dealings, and
that the estimable qualities of temperance, industry, and
frugality, if not strictly guarded, were liable to lead man
into a selfishness ~ar more fatal to the soul than gross
vices.
What the contents of the violated letter were,
never transpired, but they certainly clenched a purpose
that Mr. Van Horn had had under consideration for
some time~. The business relations beI~xveen the two
partners were not of a harmonious kind, and it was evi-
dent that the elder member held young ~epeyster in
thorough contempt as a worse than useless fifth wheel,
and had long come to the conclusion that, as he was
abundantly able to dispense with the Depeyster funds,
such a partner as Abraham was not only superfluous but
highly detrimental. To be sure that young man's father
had treated Mr. Van horn li~ke a son; had taken him
into partnership and thus enriched him; but what of
that? If the elder Depeyster had played the bene-
factor it was merely to subserve his personal interests;
simply because he deemed it the best policy to pursue;
*      and therefore, Mr. Van Horn would be but following the
~same principle, in ridding himself of one who shared profits
without having assisted to earn. them. Gratitude was out

of the question. No merchant should ever permit per-
sonal predilections to weigh in the balance of business,
and as in this instance there were no predilections of
any kind, Mr. Van Horn's mind was soon made up. By
their articles of association either partner could dissolve
the partnership on giving due notice in writing of this
intention; so Mr. Van horn had a balance sheet draxvn
off an~ went into close confabnla~1ou with Mr. I-Iogg
concerning the state of various accounts, etc., and im-
mediately after Mr. Depeystor found on his desk a note
informing him, in short and concise terms, that the firm
would cease to~ exist in fifteen days from date. Mr.
Van Horn was the more anxious and hasty in his pro-
ceedings, from the circumstance that at that time
Chinese goods were scarce in the market and rising in
value, and as the firm had several cargoes of these on
their way, he desired to arrange it so as to be able to
turn the large gains in prospect to his sole undivided
behoof.
Surprised indeed was Abraham, when he bread his
senior's missive, and very disagreeably surprised too, for
the fifteen thousand dollars or so a year he was com-
fortably receiving were in great jeopardy. He was
frightened, and puzzled, and dissatisfied; ~' Really, I-I
-Mr. Van Horn, isn't this a sudden determination on
your part?, What's the matter, oh? Anything gone
wrong, eh? Anything happenod-are you dissatisfied
with me, oh ?"
Before replying, Mr. Van Horn arose and shut the
partition door, while I, at the same moment, pushed the
convenient pane over my desk slightly ajar, so that,
heAring no scruples about eaves-dropping, I overheard

78

GA1U~ET VAN HORN.

O~ARR33~T STAN HORN.


80          GARRET VAN HORN.                                          GARRET VAN HORN.         81

'it
ilil
I

the coVersation that followed, and which I report as a
sample of what my Uncle garret could do in the way
of rapid, complete, versatile, plausible, and effective
lying.
"Not a bit dissatisfied, Abraham~ not a bit," said Mr.
Van~ Horn, as he took his chair.
"Well, then, why do you want to cast me oft'; e.h?
I thought it was understood when pa was alive that
~ and I were to stick together and keep up the old
name and the old concern. Now, I don't think it's fur
at all. If you don't think I've been active enough,
why, I'll do anything; I'll"-.
"But Abraham, I've no fault to find with you in any
way - understand that. My reason for wishing to
bring our business relations to a termination is solely
this: you know very well that I have now acquired a
J, fortune more than ample for all my needs and wants,
and also that I have attained that period of life when it
behooves me to devote the few remaining years that may
be spared to me, to occupations and objects more befit-
ting a Christian than mere money-getting pursuits. In
view of this, I must proceed to wind up my affairs.
The first; step to be taken, and I do it with very great
reluctance, is to sever my connexion with you; not
from any mercenary motive, nor from any dissatisfaction
with you, Abraham; but simply as preparatory to my
retirement. You will readily perceive this in its true
light, and see that I cannot under the existing state of
things give that attention which I ought to, to my relb
gious and benevolent duties."
"Well; but what am I to do, eh? What shall I do,
oh?' If you break up the old concern, why, I shan't

iiI~I
it~iI
~111~
I~I
j4j
~41
~jji
'Ii

4
hardly know what to d~. Don't you see? That's the
trouble. How am I to get ten or fifteen thousand
dollars a year, oh ?" This was said in a querulous and
vexed tone.
"My dear Abraham," said Mr. Van Horn, softly, "I
think, indeed I might almost call you my son, pray,
listen to me. Although your share of the capital, that
is to say, the money you have standing to your credit
on the bodks, is not indeed as large as it might have
been, still it is enough to satisfy any reasonable man.
You must remember, Abraham,-J speak plainly-you
must remember that you have been extravagant, and
instead of accumulating you have spent all your income.
I say this without any intention of reproaching you, but
merely to-to elucidate my point. Yet, as I said, in my
opinion you have an abundance, and isn't it better to
grasp this and hold it fast, than to continue in business
and perhaps lose it? Now-here I've a balance-sheet
which I wish you to examine-there you see-you have
- thousand dollars to your credit which I'm sure is a
handsome sum, and can be invested so as to yield -
thousand per annum easily and safely, and without an~
exertion on your part. You will then be free fr~m any
of the cares and troubles ,of business, and better still,
have your money safe from any contingency. That is
the great point, for you are well aware that our profits
are much reduced this year. Cast your eye over this
account 'Shipment to Porto..Bello;' and on this,
'Cheroots,' and see the enormous losses we have sus-
tained, and there is no knowing how things may turn
out next year. Yes, I think in view of all this you must
admit that prudence is the best course to pursue, and I
4*

80

81


82(            GARRET VAN HORN.
think I have matured a plan which will prove the most
advantageous method of closing the business, and
bringing our accounts to a speedy settlement. For in-
stance: your interest in the capital is so much-your
share of the profits as pe~ Profit and Loss account-so
much. Of merchandise on hand we have-so much, on
the greater part of which we probably shall not lose
anything. On the othei' hand the 'Suspended debts'
account is-so much-a large sum as you perceive, and
we have this 'Shipment of flour to Rio,' on which it is
more than likely we shall lose at least fifteen per cent.
Now, what I propose is this: that the whole business
be transferred to you ;-that you take entire charge of
everything, collect all debts, ii$fact, do everything that
n~ay be necessary to lkiuidate the affairs of the firm in
the promptest and most profitable manner; that you
buy me out, as it were, paying me the half of my in-
terest in the concern as it now appears on the books in
cash, and for the other half, give me your bond with
co1late~al security for its payment, say, in six and nine
months. In consideration of your performing this you
atre to have all the profits that may possibly accrue from
the arrangement."
"But how am I to raise the cash, eh? I couldn't
scrape together so much money so soon; don't you
see
Mr. Van Horn saw very well, much clearer doubtless
than Abraham did, but he simply said: "That of
course is your own look-out. Now, if you prefer it, I
will buy you out on the same terms. You see, I want
above all to act squarely with you. I make no proposi-
tion, nor do I wish you to enter into any arrangement

GARRET VAN ItORN.        83

in which I am not willing to take either side of the con-
tract. I won't disguise the fact, that if you accept my
first proposal you will have a great deal of trouble and
annoyance; that it will take much time and toil, and
that it may eventually turn out that the profits now
appearing on the books will be consumed and end in a
deficit. These of course are chances to take, But you
have your choice; if you do not want to undertake it I
will do so-pay you half cash, and balance in six months,
fully secured, and run the risk of getting paid for my
trouble put of what I can realize."
"Suppose we let things stay as they are, eh? How
would that do, you know-to wind up together, oh?
Gradually, eb ~"
"That is to say, that I must take the whole burden
on my shoulders-do all the work and share the pay, if
any, with iou? No, no, Abraham, that will never do.
I could not in justice to myself consent to that. You
must recollect, Abraham, that since we have been toge-
ther the whole labor of carrying on the business has
devolved upon me; the paltry three thousand a year
extra allowed me as salary being no equivalent for my
services, and merely a recognition of them. This can-
not continue any longer. What I have offered you is
the only just, fair, and equitable way, and I must have
y~our decision at once, else we shall be obliged to adopt
some other method which may prove neither profitable
nor agreeable to either of us."
"Well, well, Mr. Van horn," said Abraham; "if we
must separate-why, one way, I suppose, is as good as
another, eh? Don't you think so, oh ?"
." To-morrow I'll have the wcessary papers drawn

I

~1i1
A'

t

88


84           GARRET VA~?~ HORN~

up, and we'll close the matter. Nothing like prompti~
tude in business. Be here at one o'clock to-morrow."
Mr. Van Horn, it will be noticed, omitted to mention
the trifling matter of the expected cargoes, and so, as
Abraham knew as little about accounts and the condi-
tion of the business as he did about the doctrines of the
Vedas, he concluded, as well as his wits would permit
him, that the oniy thing to be done in this quandary
was, as usual, to let Mr. Van Horn settle affairs as he
listed.
A few days later the firm was no longer A. Depoyster
&amp; Co., and Mr. Van Horn, by his adroit and opportune
negotiation, succeeded in bagging a very handsome
sum, which otherwise would have been shared with a
useless and unworthy partner.
'1

CHAPTER VI,
DOCTOR ROSE.
~D now the immaculate six months, the irreproacha
ble two hundred days of my existence have passed
away-passed away, months and months ago, and I am
now relapsed into my original sinfulness! The transi-
tion was gradual and easy, for that condition of precise
innocence, of rectilinear conduct and self-abnegation,
was perhaps in me an abnormal one, and a continuation
of it incompatible with my mercurial and ardent teni-
perament.
Thus my natural disposition resumed its sway, and the
well-behaved, mild-mannei~ed, serious Bible scholar, back-
slid into the pleasure-seeking unstable lad, and sad to
i'elate, this change was chiefly brought about and kept
pace with a disbelief in a once revered uncle; in Mr.
Van Horn of the firm of A. Depeyster &amp; Co., whom my
father and a host of others looked upon as the sah of

84

p
I
I
'F
I
I
I


86

GAJ~RET VAN hORN.

GARI~ET VAN hORN.

II

.87

the earth; as a saint in spectacles; as one of the chosen
and elect; ~s one in fact, who, if it came to that and
sanctity were as potent as of yore, could save New
York city and its suburbs from the fate that befell
Sodom and Gomorrahi
During the six months, more or less, of' my proba-
tion, I, amongst other evil-ways, renounced novel-read-
ing even to the extent of resigning Paul Clifford when
three quarters read, which, as I had an insatiable appe-
tite for romantic fiction, may be taken as a test of the
strength of my good resolves. When I fell, or rather,
glided back into my innate depravity, I resumed that
pernicious habit and devoured the procilictions of Bul-
wer, Le Sage, Scott, Cooper, and the other great novel-
ists with a voracity truly appalling.
Had this been my only fault but little harm would
have accrued therefrom, and I might still have retained
my uncle's good opinion, but unfortunately, my derelic-
tion extended fi~rther. Among other sins of co~jnmission
I formed, to express it elegantly, an attachment for a
young lady. A lovely being of, say, scarce fifteen sum-
mers, who, singular to relate, reminded me of all the
heroines, of all the blonde heroines, I had ever read of in
the pages of romance. Her orbs were cerulean, her
curls golden, her name, Laura Ludlow! What I espe-
cially admired in her was her goodness~-her moral
excellence. She was such a kind, amiable, sweet girl,
but alack! we were destined never to be one. It was
all my aunt's fault, this fatal passion, and I suppose as ms
usual in such cases it had its influence on my fLiture life.
She never told her love, nor did I; we were too respectful
for that; but there wns a tacit understanding between

us to the same effect, which took the form of brotherly
and sisterly affection. She was a Connecticut girl and
niece of lNlrs. Van horn's, and came occasionally to the
city to spend a few weeks with her aunt. She adopted
me as her brother, and never, never was there such an
affectionate sister! We went to church together, and
to parties, but these, sad to say, were fruitful in quarrels,
for MTC were as jealous as Italians and fickle as butterflies.
In short, we were just as foolish as older lovers. Dear
Aunt Jane with her ever-failing sagacity, foresaw at
once ~that it would be a mach, and had Laura's bridal
dress and cake all prepared in her mind's eye. When
the charming girl returned to her Connecticut home she
would pen to me epistles the most beautiful in style it is
possible to conceive, full of the best advice and moral
sentiments, all written in a neat minute hand on elegant
note paper. A famous one, indeed, was Laura at "cor-
responding," and lost no opportunity of displaying her
talent in that line, whilst I responded in the best way I
could, grateful for her tender solicitude in my welfare.
Our loves had that extent and no more; but it necessa,.
rily involved other aberrations on my part, such as
a devotion to personal adornment, a hankering for
rings, breastpins, and whiskers, much anxiety about the
cut of my hair and troxvsers, and an insatiable Alexan-
drine desire for conquest over the doomed sex. Con-
sequently my savings were soon Spent and no more
money found its way to my credit in the Savings Bank.
Tired of evenings at home, I discarded my clarinet, and
sought the companionship of congenial spirits, anti in
couples or packs we hunted the fair, and ruthlessly ravaged
the fluttering heart of beauty. Furthermore, ins~ad of

I
ii

I


88

GARRET VAN HORN.

going to church in a proper way and attentively listening
to the sermon, we frequented houses of worship but to
improve our taste in young ladies. The Tabernacle on
broadway and Market-street church, were our favorite
resorts for that purpose, the latter place being noted for
the many lovely belles among its congregation. We
young sprigs were the dismay and annoyance of sextons,
who welcomed us with frowning brows, for we helped
ourselves unceremoniouslyto. pews, and flung coppers on
the platters at collection to create a noise and sensation.
What a change from my quiet, sincere attendance on the
teachings of the Rev. Dr. Westervelt at the old past
Dutch church, which I now so carefully shunned!
And to crown all, such a variety of new ideas and
desires took possession of me, that my daily routine of
clerkship became exceedingly irksome. Whilst I stood
at the desk auditing accounts or copying letters, my
mind was constantly roving from my task, and I would
wonder how my uncle, with all his wealth, could be con-,
tent to lead such, a monotonous existence when there
were so many splendid things to be seen in the world,
and so many pleasurable ones to do; he, who owned
vessels going to all parts of the globe and who,, won-
derful to say, had never been outside of the harbor!
Then I would look across at the Sooloo, that lay
opposite my window, and admire her clean, neat appear-
ance, and imagine how pleasureful it would be to take a
trip in her to that land ~f wonders C1hina, or to cruise
about in that swift clipper the Dart, and participate in
the romantic business of running opium. 0, those
sunny, sunny seas, those spicy breezes and enchanted
isles! how they float through the imagination of youth

GARRET VAN HORN~

89

and disgust him with dull, plodding home-ways! Leave
my present employment I would, at all hazards, sooner
or later, with or without my uncle's permission and see
the world, and the longer I was prevented from doing
so the more dissatisfied I would be. I took no pains to
conceal this feeling from my relatives, but, although my
aunt was somewhat annoyed at my free expressions of
discontent, my uncle seemed to take no heed of them
whatever.
One evening, while we were at tea, I remarked to
him that I believed I never would he able to make a good
clerk. "No, nor anything else useful, I am afraid," said
my uncle, casting a look of contempt at a new acqua-
marine pin that embellished my shirt-front.
I was a little abashed at this answer, for fancying him
in a complaisant mood, I was about entreating him to
allow me to try a nautical life for a short time.
"I think I might be useful at sea," I ventured. "I
think I might make a sailor."
"I doubt it," said my uncle.
"Garry," exclaimed my aunt, "why, what are you
thinking of? What a foolish notion. Have you any
idea of the kind of life sailors lead? Don't you know
they've nothing but hard biscuit and salt-meat to eat,
and no butter nor delicacies of any kind, and they've to
climb up thQ masts even in the coldest and wettest
weather."
I smiled at my aunt's attempt at dissuasion.
"You will oblige me, G5retr," said Mr. Van Horn,
drily, "' by banishing all such foolish whims. They
might interfere with your occupations."
"But Mr. Van Horn," interposed Dr. Rose, who hap-

'I

ii
11
I'!
I

1.
1~

} l'J''- -M'l j 'M l'' ' "'" - '-' ll" i y 't ''W ' JM up


GAUBET VAN HORY~          91

90.            GAB1~ET VAN~ EOI~N.

4

pened to be present,. "don't let us be too severe on Gar-
ret. We must make allowances for youth. We can't
expect to find old heads on young shoulders. We all
indulge in attractive~ views of~ life during young days.
What a pity that they should so soon dissolve into thin
air, isn't . it ~ Garret has not experienced the bitter
realities of life, but they'll come, sure and soon enough."
The discussion was now dropped and the topic
changed, but the unfavorable reception the announce-
ment of my wishes had. met with, did neither quench
them, nor shake my resolves in the least.
A day or two after I met iDr. Rose in Wall street.
lie appeared~ delighted to see me and shook my hand
cordially. Said be: "You've so little amusement at
your house that you certainly must find it lonesome.
Come and see me, Garry-here's my card. Come any
time, I'm almost always at home. Come this evening."
I was pleased to find that such an agreeable man was
disposed to be friendly with me, and thanking him for
his invitation, I accepted it. On his card was written in
pencil, No. --, North lJfoore street, and after supper I
proceeded thither, for I liked the doctor, as he was
always good-humored and full of fun, qualities that go a
great way with young people.
116 dwelt in a small two-story house near hudson
street, occupied by a widow, who let furnished apart-
ments. There was his tin sign alo~21gside of the bell-
knob, which pulled, brought a black boy who ushered
me into the doctor's room; a very shabby place for such
an elegant man. But he had not practiced long and
young physicians are proverbially poor. Presently I
heard steps on the basement stairs, and he entered,

N

Ii

90

attired in dressing-gown and slippers. "Ah; (4arry,
sorry to keep you waiting. I'm so fatigued. A poor
fellow-a hodrnan-~fell from a four-story house-crushed
in three ribs-fractured the sternum-'fraid he won't live
-poor fellow '-has a wife and six children, been with
him the last de hours-it's distressing-.-distressi.ng !"
"Is there no hope ?" inquired I.
"But little, I fear. These are the most trying things
we have to bear in our profession-the scene of pro-
spective starvation to a whole family. Lithotomy, ampa..
tation-mere carving of quivering muscle-the grating
of saw-teeth through live bone, are nothing, compara-
tively speaking mere nothing, to the sight of a troop of
tender children mourning over the disablement of their
protector and provider. I gave them all I had about
ine, but such things completely unnerve me-completely
unman me. Fine night out, isn't W? By the by, I
was much l)leased with your remarks the other evening,
at tea-let me see-~-what xvhs it? Ah, yes, some disa-
greement about something, wasn't it?
lie spoke in a languid, unconcerned way, and I with
the easy confidence of yo~ith, told him all my fancied
trouble, and imparted all any hopes and wishes. "I am
actually sick of being in my uncle's office," said I, em-
phatically. "That's the way it is, and I want to get
away from there just as soon as I can."
"And your uncle wants you to remain, is that it ?"
"That's just the trouble."
"It isn't always well, nor do I think it advisable in
many cases to control a young man's inclinations in the
choice of a pursuit in life; and I don't wonder-at your
being dissatisfied with your present occupation. Were


=~
p

92            OAIrnBT VA~ IIO1~N.
you poor or compelled to earn your livelihood, it would
be altogether different, but to constrain to stupid drud-
gery a young man destined as you are to great riches,
is lireposterous, if not positively unjust. Let me see-
how old are you?"
"Eighteen."
"Eighteen! Why, at your age I had seen half the
globe, I had been in Paris,~ and London, and Vienna,
You have never been abroad, I suppose?"
"No, never; but I should like to."
"What do you intend to be? Bookkeeper, or
what ?"
"I'll never be a book-keeper. X know my health
couldn't stand being housed up so."
"It is very confining; weakens the chest and all
that. To tell the truth, Garry, I took a fancy to you
that evc~1ng from the spirited way in which you as-
serted your independence" (I could not exactly recollect
that, nevertheless I accepted his complimentary allu-
sion.)
He continued: "I must confess I like a lad of spirit.
Now, I can't see why your uncle should not indulge you
so far as to permit you to make a trip to Europe, if
you so much desire to go to sea. It could do you no
harm, and it would undoubtedly be of use to you here-
after, and as for the expense, pshaxv! that of course is
not worth mentioning, particularly as all your uncle's
wealth will eventually fall to you. Yes, Garry, I quite
agree with you, and anything II can do to further your
wishes in this respect, or indeed in any other; I shall Jo
with the greatest pleasure. I'm Qfl your side, depend
.upon that."

GARRET VA~ llOR~.

93

Here he was interrupted by the negro boy, who whis..
pored in his ear.
"Bid him come up, David4 It's only my tailor; sit
still, Garry."
A man of stubborn head and aspect stern, wearing
very ill-fitting clothes, now entered with a folded paper
in his hand.
"Mr. Cook, sir," exclaimed the Doctor, rising to
shake his hand. "How do you do, sir? I hope I see
you well. David, bring the arm-chair for Mr. Cook-
there-allo w me to take your hat, Mr. Cook. This ~
Mr. Van horn, Mr. Cook. Mr. Van Horn, nephew to
A. Depeyster &amp; Co., you know-or rather, I should
say, adopted son of Nabob Van Horn, senior, Garry,
this is my friend Mr. Cook, the celebrated and dis-
tinguished tailor and cutter to all the nobility and
gentry, as tl~ey say in England, eh, Cook? Ha! ha !"
The tailor relaxed his grim visage, and scanned my
apparel from top~to toe.
"Garry, you must be wanting clothes, eh? I can
conscientiously recommend my friend Mr. Cook. You
can't deal with a more worthy man or a more accom-
plished artist."
Mr. Cook, on whom the name of Van Horn had a
perceptible effect, gave me his card and solicited my
patronage.
The doctor went to a closet and brought forth a
decanter and some tumblers, "Cook, you'll take
something, won't you? You must be tired after toiling
all day. What's your particular.~a little Cognac 2"
"Thank you, P11"
"Garry, you'll try ~ little, won't you 2"

9

/

L

"1


94            GA1~RET VA~ XIOflN.                                                                         95

V

"Excuse me, I 'never 4rink anjthing strong."
"Pshaw! try a little."
"I cannot," I began with a blush; for I saw the
contempt in Mr. Cook's face.
"What I you are not a teetotaller, I hope ?" ex-
claimed the Doctor with a laugh. "There, drink
that. It '11 not poison you, I'll be bound. Cook, my
dear fellow, take some more. I can recommend tl~e
stuff."
I tasted the liquor aiid it set me a-coughing. Cook
found it palatable, and its demulcent properties so molli-
fied him, that he rose to leave without presenting his
bill. "have a cigar before you go," said the Doctor,
producing a box; "they're Noriegas. Garry, do you
emok&amp;? No, that's a pity. By. the by, Cook, I owe
you a bill, don't 1? Let me see, to-morrow'S Wednes-
day-.-next day's Thursday-.I'll call in tomorrow or the
day after, and settle that."
"If there's anything I detest," contiimed the Doctor
to me after the tradesman's departure; "it's to have a
man call twice for his pay. It's very ungentktnanly,
and I must confess I feel a. little ashamed at putting
Cook off; but unfortunately, he just happens to call at
a moment when I have been paying out pretty heavily,
and it's altogether unavoidable. While I think of it I
must make a memorandum to call on him to~inorrow,
or I might forget it. how do you progress with the
clarionet, eh? I'm sorry you lost your little place there
at the, organ. You were rather unfortunate about that.
how furious Shaffer was, ha 1-ha! It won't do to fall
asleep over music, G-arry. (The doctor wasn't aware
that all the trouble arose from my being too wide-

awake.) I suppose it's rather dull home, isn't it?
Your uncle, to be sure, is a very estimable and worthy
man; but, without meaning any disrespect, he is a very
absurd one in some things. No~ but what he means
well enough; but the truth is, that he has no more idea
of the world beyond South street and the ~st Dutch
church than a child. I may be mistaken, but I judge
he is the last person on cartel to be entrusted with the
destinies of a high-spirited young fello~~, except so far
as regards furnishing him with plenty of money and
that, there's no denying, he is~ fully capable of doing,
ha !-ha !"
"Capable enough," said I, "if he only had the in-
clination."
"But ho should have the inclination. It's the worst
possible policy to stint a young fellow destined to conic
into 'the possession of great wealth. lie should be
habituated to the use of money. Otherwise, when he
falls suddenly into the possession of a fortune, the
chances are that he becomes so bewildered as to soon
scatter away his dollars like an idiot."
Of course, I acquiesced in this opinion, and decided that'
the Doctor was a man of great good sense. After some
more talk I left, more pleased than ever with this friend
who had so warmly espoused my cause. Encouraged by
his advice, I made another effort to obtain my uncle's con-
sent to the wishes and plans that had now taken posses.
sion of my mind, to the exclusion of almost everything
else.
"Uncle Garret, I should like very much to make a
European tour," said I.
"Indeed," said he.

SA

95


GARRET VAN HORN.         97

GARRET VAN HORN.

"Some day or other you may possibly go," said
Aunt Jane.
"Dr. Rose said he'd been to London and Paris long
before my age," continued I.
"Indeed," replied Uncle Garret.
"And he says too, that he don't think it advisable to
control a young man's inclination too strongly in the
choice of occupations," said I, plumply.
"The Doctor and I hold different opinions about
that, it seems. When did he enlighten you on that
subject, sir ?"
"One evening last week."
"Ah! And so the Doctor don't think it advisable to
check youthful ambition, eh ?"
"No, sir, he don't," said I, emphatically, wishing to
impress him with the opinion of so valuable an auxili-
ary.
"I think the Doctor has done an unwise thing in up..
holding you in such notions," said Uncle Garret.
"I'm sure," interrupted Mrs. Van Horn, "that the
Doctor never meant anything by it. He wouldn't, I
know, do anything that you would disapprove of. He
- may have given Garry a little advice, or Garry may
have misunderstood him, or something of that sort;
but I'm sure he's too kind-hearted a person to hurt any-
body's feelings. Don't you remember, Mr. Van Horn,
how he refused to eat lobster last Sabbath at dinner,
because he said he wouldn't encourage the cruel way of
cooking 'em,-that it was a relic of barbarism? Those
) were his very words, and I've heard too, from Mrs.
Robinson, that when he was walking out in the street
with her, one day, he saw a vault-light open, and rang

the door-bdll and told the folks of' the house how their
carelessness might cause some poor persons to break
their legs. That's kind, I'm sure."
But Uncle Garret said iiothing further, and my second
application for permission to rove, was as unsuccessful
as the fb7st.
And Myndert? I saw him but seldom now. Formerly
we went frequently together to visit father, but after I
became acquainted with Laura I neglected that laudable
custom, and avoided my brother for more agreeable
companions. When he came to see me I was never at
home, and so, tired of calling he ceased, and at least six
months had elapsed without my meeting him, when one
evening, having nothing' better to do, I recollected
having a brother in existence and went to visit him.
He boarded in the family of Mr. Berg's foreman, who
lived in Scan~mel street near the~ Dry Dock, but whe~ I
reached there they told me that Myndert was not in and
had probably gone to his draughting teacher's. Myn..
dert inherited all his father's economical habits, and
managed not only to clothe himself out of the small
wages he receiX~ed, but also to save enough to pay for
certain lessons and books necessary for a proper educa-
tion in the scientific part of his trade. In spite of our
low estimate of his mental abilities, he had brought
away from school more solid and useful knowledge than
his quicker-witted brother, and though slow to learn,
what he did learn, he knew thoroughly and retained
with great tenacity. Fiction satisfied my mental wants,
but Myndert seldom read any of it; poetry he never
appreciated, but he found after having laboriously mas-


GARRET VAN' HORN.        99

98          GARRET VAN HORN.

tered the rudiments of mathematics and entered into its
intricate paths, temples of beauty and sources of rare
pleasure. His studies were continued with Monsieur
Thvois, who lived in the city, and with the assistance of
this able teacher he was initiated into the arcana of the
silence of ratios and quantities. Algebra opened the
portals to a magazine of marvels, and his practical mimi
found nutritious and delightful food in Geometry, that
study noble in its elegant simplicity and truth.; and when
able to grasp the higher branches of mathematics, such
as Conic Sections and Calculus, he took absolute joy in
abstruse problems, as much as any one could in a game of
billiards. He exploded every stream that flowed from the
fountain-head, not only those applicable to his profession,
as Statics, 1-lydrodynamies, Architecture, etc., but also
Astronomy, Geology, Mineralogy, and what not others,
gathering and garnering as he went, priceless fruit from
the tree of knowledge. He was fortunate in his choice of
an instructor, for Monsieur Rivois was a complete and
enthusiastic mathematician, who, of course, held classical
learning in great contempt. The ancients, he would say,
were well enough in their way no doubt, they had
Archimedes, Apollonius, Csesar, and some others who
were certainly men to be admired, but why waste years
of study on Homer and Virgil? Would the ability to
compose Greek sapphics and Latin hexameters enable a
man to throw a substantial bridge over a stream or un-
dertake a trianguk~tion? A reasoner and an analyst,
above all, who lacked faith and accepted nothing save
axioms and pal~abilLies, he held p'~e~s but as dreamers
and idlers, and philosophers and metaphysicians, those
profound thinkers lost in their own depths, those intellects

run to seed, but as caged beasts who fret and chafe
continually around their pen, seeking some aperture to
escape into the world beyond. The man of numerals,
however, sees at once the impossibility of escaping, or,
in other words, that such problems as they propose are
insolvable; that man's intellect is purposely limited, and
that the wisest are but little clearer-eyed than simple-
tons. How true this, and how insignificant all our great
discoveries must appear to the eye of Omniscience;!
Two inches or so in circumference, and a little more
phosphorus, is all the difference between the brain or a
Cuvier or Webster and that of an ordinary mortal.
One lobe of that substance protrudes beyond the rest,
and in that direction we excel, perhaps at the expense
of some'~ other faculty, for even the greatest geniuses are
deficient in some respects, and Shakspeare ~vas as inca-
pable of painting like Raphael or of composing New-
ton's Principia as the artist or the philosopher was of
writing the tragedy of King Lear,
A bit of this Frenchman's history would perhaps not
be out of place here. Andr6 Rivois had served in an
engineer corps under thp great Napoleon. He had lost
an arm, gained the rank of captain, and been decorated
for blowing up a bridge at some critical moment and
sending a Prussian battalion flying in mid-air at the
immindi~t peril of his life. After the reverses of the
French and the occupation of Paris by the Allies, he
was one. of those sullen Bonapartists who remained in
the capital and sought every opportunity to avenge on
the hated foreigner the defeat of their beloved chieftain.
Fierce and gloomy, he wandered about the coffee-houses
and garden~ in plain citizen's dress, and when he met


100          GARRET VAN HORN.                                                GARRE~D' VAN flOR~.

101

some arrogant German or' Briton, some officer all swag-.
ger and gaudery, he would elbow him or tread on his
toes and thus provoke him to a duel. His object was
then attained. Blades were drawn at Montmartre-
and one-two-and the third! in the bosom of some
enemy of France -and the Emperor. Two, three, four
even, of the hated foes fell before the falcon eye and
vigorous arm of Capitaine Rivois, when th6 departure
of the allied troops frustrated his plan of annihilating
them one by one. Then, scorniiig service beneath the
banner of the Bourbon, Capitaine Rivois sheathed his
sword and got married. He now took it into his head
that the wine trade was the line of business best adapt-.
ed to the capacities of an engineer of roads and bridges,
and established himself at Bercy, where, in about two
years he succeeded in sinking not only all his own
money but much of that article belonging to other
people. To crown his misfortunes his wife now died,
leaving him an only daughter. But the old soldier did
not despair and said stoutly, "I must take a bold ~tep to
retrieve my losses. It must not be said that Andr6
Rivois died in the debt of any one. I have yet some
years before me, courage Rivois, courage my friend, I
leave for the America, for New York in the United
States of the America !"
"To the America !" exclaimed his aged father-in-.
law. "But at what art thou thinking, my dear; art
thou crazy ?" And the old man sought an ancient
geography of the year 1 v'-, and read: "Now York, a
town settled by the Hollanders, who bought it of the
savages." "Savages!' but Andr6, they will eat thee-
they will surely eat thee !" and he shut the book with a

warning shake of the head. But in. spite of the savages
Rivois followed his bent and came to New York.
There he found an old brother officer, who was em-.
ploycci by the United States government to superintend
the construction of some harbor fortifications. From
this friend Rivois received employment, until he oh-.
tamed the more lucrative situation of professor of
French in a young ladies' seminary. By dint of stinting
and hard labor he managed to make frequent remit-
tances to his creditors in France, until at length he suc-.
eceded in freeing himself entirely from debt. Then he
sent for his daughter, who had been, left with her
grand-.parents, and hiring humble lodgings in Hudson
Street, the two lived together in all possible affection
and contentment. It was this damsel Rivois, now a
young lady of eighteen, who answered my summons and
lighted me up to a third story room, the evening I went
to seek my brother. Myndert was busy -with Monsieur
Rivois over a lesson. Monsieur Rivois was a well-pro-.
l)ortioned old man, erect as a halberd, and with a case-
hardened frame and empty sleeve that bespoke the
veteran. As I entered he rose from his chair and ex-
claimed: "J~ens! It is Garr6. But how does it go?
There b a long time that one has seen you. It is the
brothaii~ of Mistair ~Van Horn ma petite. Garr6, per-
mit me t6 introdweeze you. It is Mademoiselle An-
nette, my daughter."
The daughter, a little, pale-faced, tidy body, curtsied
quietly and gave me a chair.
* (Monsieur Rivois had acquired what English he knew
1I~0lll grammar and dictionary, consequently he spoke
that tongue more imperfectly than he would had~he


102

GARRET ~ IIORN.

roughed it, and learnt it by ear. I have taken the
liberty, therefore, of altering this phraseology and pro-
nunciation when necessary to a more intelligible style.)
"Do you see," said Monsieur Rivois, "your brother
and I, we were occupied with that famous Monsieur
Monge. lie is a charming gar~on that Maindair truly,
and he i~akes a progress, ali !" and he shrugged his
shoulders and pressed his lips together as much as to
say that the progress my brother was making was too
excruciating and altogether inexpressible. "Maybe
you will recall to yourself that when he left Mistair
Crombees he was not arrived at the Equashuns Quad-
ratics, and well, here he is now at this moment alto-
gether well advanced in the Statique-it marches! and
listen well, we do not go. at the grand gallop-he com-
prehends that-do you see-as it must (comme ilfaut).
And one must see his drawings linear-there-regard
that-whilst Annette will bring some glasses, and we
will take a little coup together in honor of your visit.
Truly, I should like to see that gueux (beggar) of a Main-
dair at the Ponts et chauss~es, or even at the School
Polytechnique; he would make well his way, I respond
oi~it."
Myndert smiled at his teacher's enthusiasm, while I
examined a port-folio of linear drawings, comprising
elevations of temples, diagrams, sections of three-deckers,
sheer-plans, and other architectural designs not very
interesting to non-professionals.
"At present," said Monsieur Rivois, after helping me
to a glass of claret, "you will have the goodness to
converse with Mademoiselle whilst your brother and I
~nish our little lesson."

*

GARRET VAN HOBN~

103

I asked Miss Aunette how long she had been~ in our
country. Four years she answered, in little better
English than her father used. How did she like the
country? was of course my next question. Not at all
at first, but now that she had become accustomed to
our language, etc. etc., and had made some few acquain-
tances, she was well enough contented. Then I said I
supposed Paris was a finer city than New York. 0,
yes! she exclaimed, and as I had touched upon a con-
genial topic she grew quite communicative and enter-
tained me with descriptions of the Tuileries~ the
Champs E1ys~es, and the Bois de Boulogue, narrating
also (quite innocently) her Sunday jaunts with grand-
papa, uncle, aunt, and the bonue, to dine on the grass
at Ro'rnainville. "Poor marnan has been dead a long
while," added she, "and now I cannot go to Rare la
Ghaise to place the flowers on her tomb," and she was
silent for some moments until her father, having concluded
the lesson, rallied us by saying that we seemed to get
along famously well and confidentially together. "I was
telling to Mr. Van Horn, papa," said Annette, "about our
parties of Sunday at Rornainville, and " -
"Ah I yes, how pretty it is there under the
chestnut trees; and how one amuses oneself:
"Qu'ou est houreux,
Qu'ou ost joyeux,
Tranquillo ~ Romainville,
Ces bois charmants
Pour lea amants,
Offre mule agr6rnents."
"Ah, Paris-Paris! there is but one Paris in the
world! ~oine, let us take another goutte, and then we

7


GARRET VAN HORN.         105

104         G.&amp;RRET VAN HORN.

will make a little tour together. It is yet of' good hour,
is it not? Annette, what hour is it ?"
Annette raised her face close to her father's and
whispered some hurried~ words. lie kissed her foi~ehead
saying, '%AThn-non--have no fear, my little one," and
we left the house together.
Myndert having a long distance to go would not ac-
company us, and Monsieur Rivois and I walked down
Hudson street to Chambers when the Frenchman said,
"It is yet early, let us go to the Caf6 Brille and make a
party of domijiocs, what say you of it?" I consented
and turning into Warren street we entered a small
French coffee-house not far from Broadway. ilardi
were we seated at one of the marble-top tables when
who should advance to meet me but Dr. Rose. I took
his extended hand and introduced him to Monsieur
Rivois. The Doctor spoke French, much to Rivois'
delight who fancied he had found a compatriot. "No,
Monsieur, I have not the honor to be a Frenchman,"
said the Doctor, "but I spent a long time in France and
I learnt to love the country-magnificent country, sir,
magnificent. I presume Monsieur has served in the
army, andj~as sacrificed that (pointing to Mons. Rivois'
empty sleeve) te the glory of his patria ?"
"capitaine du genie under the Emperor, at your
service," answered Rivois with the old military emphasis.
"Perhaps Monsieur will do me the honor to take some-
thing with us
"With pleasure," said Dr. Rose, "I come here
from time to time to take the coffee, and I~ have re-
marked Monsieur here several times. I am rejoiced that
it has given me the occasion to make the acquaintance

of an old soldier of the Empire. I must mark the day
as the ancients did with a whiVe stone, or better still,
celebrate it as we moderns do in degtistating a bottle
of the best wine in Monsieur Pinchon's cellar. Come,
what shall it be? Shall we try the Chambertia, favor-
ite wine of the Emperor? aa~on I"
"I7'la mo'sieu."
"A bottle of Chambertin and of the best. Perhaps
Monsieur the Capitaine has taken part in the glorious
campaign of Italy ?"
"No, Monsieur, I have not had that honor, but I was
present at Austerlitz and decorated at Jena," replied the
veteran with not a little pride.
"While we are tasting this, might I ask of Monsieur
le Capitctine how he had the misfortune to lose his
arm
"Certainly," and Mons. Rivois descTibed how, at the
affair of the Vienna bridge, he was~ skirmishing with a
grenadier who was trying to tickle him with the point
of his five-feet clarinet, when a savage hulan galloped
4
up and without ceremony or even asking permission,
made such a dash at him with his lance that he was left
for dead on the field, hut luckily recovered with the loss
only of a wing.
"Glorious profession that of a soldier-glorious in-
deed," said Dr. Rose. "What do you think of our
young friend here, a young man of talent and capabili-
ties; the adopted son of one of the wealthiest men in
this city; a young fellow with-every capacity for enjoy-
ing life, and who will roll in gold one of these clays..
Well, sir, they insist on making a dull, stupid book-
keeper of him; a mere quill driver, you know; chain


106         GARRET VAN HORN.                                             GARR]~T VAN HORN.        107

him to the desk and make him dyspeptic, consumptive,
bald, and sordid, so that he will lose all relish for life
and its pleasures, a~d become miserly, withered, and
contemptible. Is that an existence for a man ?"
"Not at all," said Rivois. "You have reason. The
commerce deprives us of all noble sentiments. It should
be left to the woman. There is but one career for a boy
like you. To the devil with the fortune! There are
better thing in the world than money. Tell your uncle
that you ~e~ire to go to Veste-Pointe---tell him you
have so niex~mbition-some heart! sacre-bleul he will
soon see you have reason and then 'En avant, ]7anfan
la Tul4~e! go ahead, my dear boy."' (With a flouri~sh
as ~f leading a storming column.)
"You see," interpolated Dr. Rose, "I would not re~
commend anything of the kind to a poor man's son, but
look at Garry's position: his uncle is worth millions-.-4s
QU old man, who in the natural course of event&amp; can
only live a short time longer, and then, of course, all he
has goes to Garry. Well, this uncle has not, nor never
had any idea of what life is. lie spends all his days in
grubbing like an old mole, and depriving himself of
everything to amass wealth. That is kind of him, to be
sure, for our friend Garry will enjoy it; so far, so good,
but what I blame the old gentleman for, is his treating
Garry like a child, absolutely like an infant. Garry's
old enough and reasonable enough now to he treated
with a little consideration."
"Without doubt-without doubt. Come, i~iy boy,"
said Rivois, slapping me on the shoulder like a recruit-
ing sergeant, "we must serve the patria."
Another change in life's kaleidoscope dazzled my

boyish eyes! a vision of myself in uniform, a dashing
cavalry officer, proud and graud in gold lace, spurs, and.
clanging sabre!
Rivois began to dilate on the advantages and glories
of the profession of arms, accidentally omitting the tri.
fling offsets of shattered heads, torn limbs, and other
uncomfortable results of incisive steel and penetrant
ball, until the bottle and his enthusiasm went out toge-
thor. "Tiens! I was forgetting myself. I promised.
my little girl to be at home by nine, and it is now eleven
hours passed. How the time goes with the good.
friends."
The doctor drew his wallet to pay for the wine, when
a friendly contest ensued between him and Rivois as
to who should settle the score. "Pardon, Monsieur,"
said the latter, "I cannot permit it. You have made
me the honor to refresh yourself at my invitation, for
the which I thank you. Garr6, come dine with us
Sunday next with Maindair, what say you of it? And.
you also, sir, I shall be charmed to see you. At four
o'clock precisely. Come together. Gentlemen, I salute
you. At the pleasure of re-seeing you."
It being late, I hurried home, feeling rather nervous
when I reflected how stringent my uncle was in regard
to early hours being kept in his household, and how
severely he looked upon any infraction of this rule~ I
rang the door~bell very gently, very gently, twice or
thrice, and luckily one of the servants being still up I
stepped noiselessly off to my room felicitating myself on
my escape. Very demure was I at breakfast the next~
morning, but lTncle Garret took me rather aback, by
saying: "Garret, you came hQme too late laat nights It


108

GARRET VAN ]IORN.

was thirteen minutes of midnight. This will not do.
You know my ideas on this subject. Al~a'espectable
people are in bed by ten o'clock. There is no truer
proverb than: Early to bed and early to rise, etc. etc.
I never, knew a man to succeed who did not keep early
and regular hours. Remember this."
Next Sunda5r I went to North Moore street to accom-
pany the doctor to Monsieur Rivois' little dinner. Said
the doctor:
"I had quite forgotten about that invitation, Garry.
Fact is, I don't approve of this fashion of making Sun-
day a day of feasting. These Frenchmeh, though, are
sad heathen. I suppose we can't well refuse. What
kind of a tabl&amp;does the old man set? I hope, at least,
that it is a clean one. There's the newspaper. I'll be
with you in a moment."
He brushed his hair and whiskers, tied his cravat
anew, dusted his coat and hat, and off we started. Qn
our way we met several groups of young women whom
the doctor examined with the searching glance of a
connoisseur. "Take a good look at the plump one in
pink coming this way, Garry," said he.
But I had not as yet acquired the nerve to stare long
and steadily at a female facq, and the doctor perceived
it, for he said with a smiling sneer that confused me-
"What! you're not afraid? Bless your innocent soul!
don't you know they love it? What do you imagine
they wear finery for, eh? To please themselves?
You're green, Garry, green as a seed leek, my dear
boy."
~Eousieur ~Rivoi~ answered our ring in person, but as

4
GARRET VAN HORN.

109

I was about to shake hands with him he respectfully
declined.
"Pardon, Messieurs, Monsieur Rivois is in his apart-
ment, I am simply his domestic. Messieurs, will you
have the complaisance to mount the stairs."
We ascended and were shown into an apartment
which evidently served as Monsieur Rivois' bed-room
and parlor. Here we found 1~Iyndert rea~g the works
of Rivarol, the wit and essayist.
"Monsieur Rivois will be here in one instant," said the
mock footman. "lie is in this moment under the hands
of his hairdresser, who is curling him the hair." Shortly
after he reappeared out of an adjoining room, which
judging from its effluent aroma, must have been the
kitchen, with a white apron about him, a white cotton
night-cap on his head, and a basting spoon in his hand.
"Excuse me, gentlemen, I am the chief-of-kitchen.
Monsieur Rivois is occupied of his toilet with his valet-
de chambre; he will be at your service in one instant."
He acted his part with an elastic drollery and relish of
humor really diverting, although I, being unaccustomed
to such jesting from a person of his age, hardly knew
how to take it. Presently appeared Mademoiselle An-
nette, attired in a dark stuff dress, silk apron, and white
linen collar. She accosted us with a few pleasant
words of welcome, and set about arranging. the dinner-
table as briskly and tidily as if born to the business.
After the soup was on the table, Monsieur Rivois was
himself again, and appeared in close shaven face and a
well brushed coat, with the red-ribbon of the Cross of
honor in his button-hole. "I have to ask of you,
gentlemen, thousand pardons for having made you wait,

6


110          GARRET VAN HORN~

b~t figure to yourselves, that my valet took the liberty
of going to the ball last night with, as of reason, my
best clothes. This morning at ten o'clock, as of habi-
tude, I ring-my man does not come-good-I ring
again-same result-in fine I go see-my begg~ir of a
valet had not yet arrived. Eleven o'clock rings, my man
arrives, that is how I am in retard. In fine, what will
you? It is one-of those little miseries inseparable from
t~he grandeur and the riches. Come,- Mademoiselle
will do the honors. lila petite, serve the pottage. Tiens /
the soup is not so bad. One may even say that it i;5 a
little chouette. I make my compliments of it to Mon-
sieur the cook."
Annette was delighted with her father's wit, and
laughed at each s~dly with so good a heart that I could
not refrain from joining in h~r merriment.
"After the soup we must take a little coup," conk
tinted Monsieur Rivois. "Tiens! I have forgotten
the wine. My sommelier-bottlelair, you call him, I
believe? My bottlelair discharged me last evening. I
had the insolence to drink the best wine myself, and
did not content inc with the ordinary. My bottlelair
said lie could not suffer that, and I have quit him.
Give me a candle, my daughter; I must descend and
grope about the cellar after a bottle of the best. The
which prefer you, gentlemen; some Macon., or some
Chateau Margaux ?"
"Why don't you send one of yorir lacqueys, or t e
cook ?" said Myndert.
"Dame! I am afraid that they would refuse me; we
others people of quality, we are of such slaves to our domes-
tics. All the same; Twill try to persuade the cook to go."

GARRET VAN hORN.              111
He returned the next moment with a bottle. "T am
very angry, gentlemen, that I cannot find the Chateau
Margaux; I know not where that rascal of a bottlelair
has hidden it; I could only put the hand on the Medoc,
Thus must we content ourselves with that; but hap-
pily this bottle is an only daughter."
"An only daughter; what's that ?" asked I.
"We call an only daughter, unejille unique, the fe~v
last bottles that remain of a stock of wine. Naturally
they are the best. I hope this one will sustain its repu-
tation."
So merry and happy was Annette at her fiT~ther's wit,
such as it was, that Myndert, the Doctor and I, caught
the contagion, and of a surety never yet was a party
gayer on as scanty materials.
After the soup we had broiled salmon, then a roast
fowl, and a stew made of the soup.~meat and spices,
which I pronounced delicious, followed by a salad of
lettuce and eggs. Monsieur Rivois applied himself to
his dinner as if that meal were the sole object of his
existence. lie said the ragout was rigollo, and that we
owed it to the talent of Mademoiselle in the art culinary,
the first and finest of the fine-arts; and that she was
altogether a blue ribbon, which I supposed had some
reference to the millinery business, and was mystified as
to its connexion with preparing stews.
The dessert consisted of the "four beggars," as An-
nette called it, which beggars meant nuts, raisins, and
figs. Afterwards Monsieur Rivois brought more wine
on the table, and Dr. Rose proposed the health of the
fair artist culinary, which we drank in our host's
Medoc, which tasted to me like red lemonade without

I

I.

I


~1
C~AWREV VAN flO1~.                                                GA1~R~T VAN HO1~N.

sugar, ~md finally, MoDsienr 1~hrois enlivened us with a
song, one having a military theme:
"Dit mol soldat, disait 'un capitctine," etc.
singing it with a gPuff emphatic pathos which sadly
marred the melody. Then Annette, who by this time
had cleared off the table, at her Lather's request took a
guitar and sang in a thin weak voice several romances,
greatly to her father's delight, who exclaimed:
"Brava I" at the end of each song, and applauded as
if she fairly out-sans Malibran. "Has she not some
voice? Has~she not some taste? Is it not well that ?"
appealed the father.
"Excellent," said Dr.. Rose~. "She has a charming
voice."
"If we were at Paris, I would send her to the ffon-
8er~xeto~'e, for she has truly much of taste for the chant.
All she needs is a little study and teaching for to be~
come mistress of the art. I would guarantee her a suc-
cess of the most brilliant. At present, shall we have ~a
party of cards, what say you of it ?"
"Excuse us, if you please," said Dr. Rose; "to-day
is Sunday, and you probably know our ideas about that
day."
"It is true; I was forgetting you were not French.
Annette and me, we make generally a game of piquet,
or we play at dames to pass the evenings, as we retain
the usages of our native land. Of the rest, I suppose
that it is permitted to sing, thus, if you have no objec-
tions, I will give you a song of Papa B6rangei ." And
Rivois had hardly roared a stave of "A lions Ballet w'~
p~u de compliancec" wheii two or three impatient

thumps on tue ceiling - of the room below us struck
silence to the heart of the Gallie bard. "chut !" said
he, with his finger to his lips, and opening the door
softly he listened on the landing. "It is Meesis Juns,
my proprietress, do you see. She comes from arriving
from the church, and I was forgetting again that we are
not in France. Come, I have had wrong. It is just.
One must respect the morals and customs of the country
where one resides."
The Doctor, to draw the old soldier out, broached the
topic of the battles ofjNapoleon, and by a malicious
remark of his in praise of thc English, provoked an out-
burst of indignation from Rivois, who began pouring
out, not vials, but, to follow the simile, .demi-johns of
wrath oii the blond and perfidious heads of Brita~nia's
sons. Who would have supposed that this viva~ions
man, flashing like powder at a chance remark, could
have been the one to keep a head cool and clear in the
midst of bursting shells and thundering guns; that this
man, amused with his own thin jests, had spent nights
and nights in abstruse study, and could now acutely
and unerringly pursue an analysis with the relish and
persistence of a medieval alchemist. -Here is the error
many make in estimating the French character, for-
getting that light hearts may be allied to heavy brains,
and that gravity no more betokens wisdom than gaiety
does a shallow mind. Minerva's bird, the owl, is a
stupid one for all its profound looks, and has not half
the intelligence of a chattering parrot or magpie.
Rivois' diatribes grew so loud and fierce that he was
again interrupted by a repetition of the knocks on the
ceiling, and the shrill voice of Mrs. Jones screaming out

4

g

112

113


114          GARRET VA~ HORN'.                                             GARRET VAN IIOR~.        115

something about "Pagans," and "scandalous." This
calmed the old Frank in a remarkable degree. "We
speak too loud, do you see, for the Sunday. But I can-
not never hear defended the conduct of those gredins
of English and their allies falling on one nation. It is
some poltroonery, do you see, like-like four against
one."
"I suppose," said I, " you believe France would have
been a match for any two of them ?"
"Without doubt, my boy, without doubt. We would
have made them dance prettily to the sound of the
cannon. But what will you-it is the fortune of war."
The Doctor now suggested it was time to leave, and
we took our departure, with an invitation from Mons.
Rivois to come again and see them, "without ceremony,
do you see."
"lie's an amusing old chap in his way that French-
man," said the Doctor as we were going home. "lie
must owe his landlady two quarters' rent at least, I
should say, from the dread he has of her. What a
homely little witch his daughter is, and such squeaking!
I coukt hardly keep from laughing in the man's face
when he asked me if I didn't think she had voice. They're
a set of vain beggars."
"They're good-natured honest people I'll swear to
that," said Myndert warmly. "They're poor to be sure,
but what of it ?"
"They may be honest enough," returned the Ddctor,
"and good-natured enough, but that's no reason why
they should poison' us with vile trash under pretext of
dining us."
"Why I thought the dinner was very nice," said I.

4

"Nice! nonsense. Slip away from the office at about
five to-morrow, and meet me at Coquelicot's and I'll
show you what a nice dinner is. Come too, Myndert,
if you can get away. I'll be glad to meet you also-"
Myndert, could not come but I was present, punc-
tually enough, and what a feast we had! In my inno-
cence I had never imagined that such dishes and dainties
were possible. Not the remotest idea had I of what the
dinner was composed, but it was delicious, and we eat
and eat, and we drank and drank, at least I did, over-
much of sparkling Sillery, ~o that, bottle-valiant, I re-
plied to the Doctor when he asked what I thought my
uncle would say if he could see me carousing thus, by an
answer equivalent to my not caring a tinker's anathema
about it. I said that, snapping my fingers too, with
such scornful defiance that the Doctor chuckled greatly,
and said, Good boy! And when the dinner was over
he asked me if~ I would like to go to the theatre. Of
course I would, and we went. My recollection is very
misty about the play. There were ladies and gentlemen
with brilliant complexions and he-spangled clothes on
the stage, and from the audience caine long peals of
laughter and clapping of hands, but after an act or two
I was so be-dazed and hot with the glaring gas-lights
that we went into the street for fresh air. The Doctor
walked me about to cool my inflamed blood, and gave
me a cigar to counteract the xvine which it did effica-
ciously, for when I reached home about midnight I was
in a told sweat and had hardly strength enouo'h toning
the door-bell. Aunt Jane glided down in her night-
dress to admit me. "Mercy! Garry, where have you
been ~" Rut I was too sick to answer and staggering

115

114


116           GkRRET VAI'f flORa.

up to my bed..room, threw myself on the bed. My
head began to spin around like a buzz-saw,. and. how
~vretched-wretched! was I that night.
Early the next morning Aunt Jane brought me a cup
of tea. She found me sleeping off the debauch, but I
awoke soon after and instead of going to the breakfast
table and meeting my uncle, I went directly to the office,
pale a~id silent as a stalking corpse.
Altl ough Aunt Jane concealed my t~'ansgression from
Uncle Garret, and though he never alluded to it in my
presence, yet I instinctively felt he surmised something,
for he showed~unmistakable signs of displeasure towards
me from that time.

4

CHAPTER

VII.

I INCUR. DTSGnAO~.
~ my intercourse with Dr. Rose he had sowed
seed in my mind which soon germinated and bore
a baneful flower. That poison-flower was the dangerous
idea that I was destined to inherit my uncle's wealth,
and this idea he never failed at every opportunity to
impress upon me. Mr. Van Horn, it must be said, had
never given me the slightest intimation to warrant any
such expectation, for it was part of his cautious charac-
ter to avoid, as far as possible, making promises of any
kind; his wi e, however, kind, irreflective Aunt Jane
had assert to my father on several occasions that I
was looked upon as their son and presumptive heir.
Yet I had given no attention to this, for I was indiffer~
ent to such a probability and untainted with any greed
of money, until the Doctor, by his repeated ~nd insidious
congratulations, awakened in me the enervating thought

116


118            GARRET VAN HORN.                                                       G~ARRIflT VAN HORN            11~)

that unearned riches and a life of luxury were to be
mine. What youthful nature could withstand such a
belief and not fall into sloth and pernicious dreams of
the future? Stronger will were needed than mine t6
continue self-reliant and ambitious of achievement be-
neath that evil spell and blight of life, the expectation
of a fortune.
And the plant of the Doctor's sowin ~p~ew and grew
like the noisome weed it was. I became vain of my
position and indulged in brilliant visions of the future.
My uncle's admonitions to diligence, and economy seemed
absurd in the extreme. I loathed more than ever the
monotonous life he intended me for, and his measures
towards one destined to an oPulent heritage appeared
even tyrannous.
And now that I had gotten a taste of what the world
had in store, I was more restive, more discontented than
ever. The painful termination of my little dissipation
with Dr. Rose did not deter me from similar pleasures.
I was tired of evenings at home and eager for nocturnal
rambles. Dr. Rose encouraged me In this, and often
gave me tickets for the theatre. The theatre! what
would Deacon Van horn have said to that? How
could he have slumbered undisturbed while his graceless
nephew was kicking his heels in a temple of Satan, even
in the pit thereof? a devotee of the wicked play-folks,
held in thrall by their brazen antics, their gaudery, and4
their wanton songs! Fortunately for his peace of mind
he never discovered this extent of my demoralization,
for I had a convenient way of effecting my ingress to
the house, at late hours, without ~he knowledge of the
inmates. This was my stratagem: our house stood on

I
[

a corner lot with a stable, on the rear, fronting the side
street; between the house and the stable ran a short
wall crowned with spikes; there was a small door, how-
ever, in the wail, the bolt of which I could draw from
the outside by a simple sleight; onc9 inside the yard I
could, by climbing on the veranda, open a small oval
hail window and then drop on the landing of the back-
stairs. Hardly ~a niglA passed that I did not avail
myself of this method to enter. It required a little
caution and expedition so as not to attract the attention
of the watchmen, who, however, were not very vigilant,
and in this way I enjoyed the liberty of roaming at will,
happy and eager as a hound loosened from the leash. I
frequented billiard saloons, bowling alleys, and oyster-
cellars, but my favorite resort was the playhouse. The
old Park in the days of Power, Fisher, and the Placides.
We shall never see such acting again, for the race of
English actors is fast dying out. And the National with
Wallack and the opera; and the little Franklin with
John Sefton's "Veil vot ov it?" What a paradise to
me was that canvass architecture and tinsel splendor!
They bring no such enjoyment now; wiser with age the
illusion is too transparent.
All at once my facility for clandestine entrance to
the house was interrupted. To explain this it will be
necessary to introduce an episode which may also serve
to illustrate Mr. Van Horn's love of order, for he had
an unbounded belief in system, and it was a standing
rule with him never to give trust or credence to any
man who lacked this essential to success. The follow-
ing will show how completely he had subjected himself
to its practice. Called away, one afternoon, by an

4.'
A

S'


N

120

GARRET VAN HORN.

urgent message to the western part of the city, and
being detained a longer time than he had expected, ho
returned not to South street but went directly home,
took tea, read the newspaper, and went to bed, as
usual, at an early hour. After a nap he awoke to un-
easiness, and began to toss restlessly about. Something
serious evidentlyy disturbed his mind. Perh~tps a pre-
sentiment of some calamity to the firm? Was failure
imminent? Nay, the trouble was simply this:
now recollected having left his office without wiping his
pen, closing his inkstand, or locking up some important
papers; in short, leaving his desk in that confused con-
dition ,so detrimental to the prosperity of a mercantile
house. He tried to argue himself into the belief, that
the porter would not have closed the office and left his
desk in that slovenly state. But to no purpose. If the
master were careless, could the man be otherwise?
And what a pernicious example to set before his clerks!
Vei'ily, as he had committed the fault it were but meet
he should rectify it. He would arise and go forthwith.
Mrs. Van horn vainly endeavored to dissuade him from
his intention. "At least," said she, "let Dennis go
with you." "It is not worth while," he replied; "I
will be* nearly there before I could awaken him, and
back by the time he were dressed." So Mr. Van Horn
took the keys-they were always left at the house
every evening by the porter-wrapped himself up and
proceeded at near midnight to South street to arrange
the objects of his solicitude. This accomplished to his
great relief, he set about returning, when he heard, as
he descended the stairs, a watchman's rap on the kerb-
stone, and had hardly reached the street when he

I
.1

0-ARLIET VAN HORN.

121

received a smart blow on the head from a club, and
found himself roughly seized bj a watchman, who ex-
claimed ;-." Surrinder! ye willing, or I'll break ivry
bone in yer body. Ow, ye thundrin' thafe, I've got ye
at last, have I ?"
Stunned for the moment, Mr. Van Horn 'was unable
to offer any explanation, and two other leatherheads
approaching he was dragged off by the trio to the
watch-house. here the captor vauntingly narrated his
exploit to the captain: "Ow, and a disprit willing he is
shure. He fought like a murtherin rasheal, and strict
at me wid a knife, the which I knocked dane out
ov his hand wid me stick. For tin minits me loife
wasn't wurt a pin, until I got the bist ov him, and
brought him to instinct sulimission wid a clip ov me
stickk"
Mr. Van Horn was at first disposed to forgive the
assault in consideration of his suspicious position, but
disgusted at the lying of the patrolman he asserted
rather sternly, that he was taken from his own premises,
and that his accuser was a complete liar.
"Oney 'ear un! bedad it's the same man I've biii
lukkin for these three moi~ths and more; the same chap
as bruk inter Murphy's porter-house, and shaved him
ov fore-and-twinty dolh~rs, and half a pipe ov gin."
"Wbat's your name and occupation ?" interrogated
the captain.
"Mr. Van Horn I'm a merchant doing busi-
ness "~
"Ear 'im agin! Heez name's Van Horn, is it? Be-
dad it wor U~ly Mick, I'll take me oat, the last time ho
wor on the Island."
6


122         GARRET VAN HORN.                                           GARRET VAN HORN.         123

." Silence! Mr. Van Horn, how came you at your
store at this time o'night ?"
My uncle's explanation of his simple errand was
received with a smile of incrcdulity, and served hut to
strengthen his accuser's charge; accordingly, he was
forced to spend the remainder of the night in the com-
pany of several unclean rogues, and to console himself
with, the thought that he was enduring martyrdom
for his devotion to heaven's first law, until morning
brought friends to establish his innocence, and effect his
release.
Meanwhile, a robbery had actually been perpetrated
in Mr. Van Horn's dwelling, and on returning home he
was astonished to find his wife in great trepidation,
occasioned not only by his prolonged absence, but also
by the discovery that during that time some one had
penetrated to their bed-room, and stolen a pair of dia-
inond ear-rings, which the thief had selected, leaving,
singularly enough, other jewellery untouched. Mrs.
Van Horn was much grieved by her loss, for the missing
articles were very costly ones, and it was pitiful to see
into, what a state of nervous, trembling, tearful agita-
'tion she had been thrown by the occurrence. The
police were apprised and other measures taken, but no
clue whatever could be obtained to indicate the robber;
however, the horse being stolen the stable was now to
be most carefully locked, and the following night an
elaborate system of barricading was instituted through-
out the house. Bolts and ,bars were in requisition, a
mastiff ~~as procured, Uncle Garref betook him to
deadly weapons, and Dennis slept like a bandit guarding
booty with the plate-basket under his pillow, a carving~
E

knife in his hand, and an axe by his bed-side. in this
way my convenient method of entering the house by a
rear-window was obstructed, for IL had no notion of
'exposing myself to Dennis' zeal, and being pitilessly
slain for a burglar. This state of things lasted for
almost a week, and then the household relaxed its vigi~
lance. The watch-dog was summarily discharged, as he.
exhibited an illicit passion for chops and tender-loin
steaks. Dennis disarmed himself; the carving-knife
was restricted to its inglorious duty of gashing cooked
flesh, and all resumed its wanted tenor. The coast
being again clear II resumed my rambles by night, and
pursued my endeavors to "see life." One day, Jerry
Teed, the Custom-house clerk, asked me to go with
him to a cook-fight about to come off that very night.
Jerry's cousin was bar-tender where the inspiriting per-
formance was to take place and in this way we would
have no difficulty in being admitted. What lively lad
would not have been delighted at such an opportunity?
and so, instead of going home to tea, Jerry and II took
supper at the "Terrapin Lunch," before starting for
the scene of action. We had fried oysters, I recollect,
egg-nogg, and Scotch ale. The egg-nogg loosened
Jerry's toug~ie. "Old man's deuced stingy, ain't he,
Garry? Wish~. he'd raise my wages 'stead o' sub-
scribing to all them societies and churcL~s. How does
he keep you up at the house, eh, Garry? Close, eh ?"
A' Oh no," said I with some importance, "J do pretty
much as I like."
"I guess he'll leave you a sight o' money when he
dies, won't lie ?"
"IL dont know, maybe."

I-

158

122


124

GARRET VAN HORN.

"You're in for some, 1 11 bet a big-apple, if he don~t
leave it all to religion. I wish I had your chance any-
how. The old man's got a frightful heap. Who wouldn't
if they was as mean as he is? Won't there be a scram-
ble when he goes off the hooks! I'll tell you what,
there'll be rousing fun 'bout them days. How's your
turnip ?"
I pulled out my old plethoric timepiece that, as
befitted one advanced in years, kept more regular hours
than those flat finniken lepines of modern days, and told
him it was h~4f-past eight.
"'Bout time we was off," said Jerry. "Fun don't
begin till late, but we'd better be on hand early. Waiter,
what's the expense ?"
He called the waiter and I paid him.
Off we trudged through Chatharn Square and up the
J3owery; smoking cinnamon cigars, and discussing the
relative merits of Tom Hamblin and Jim Wallack, until
we arrived at a tavern called the "King-Pin House,"
situated in one of the eastern avenues.
Jerry was apparently well acquainted here as he nod~.
ded to the landlord, and introduced me to his cousin,
the bar-keeper, whom. he called "Chris." To cement
the bonds of new-m~de friendship I could do no less
than invite Chris to join Jerry and ~ne in a social
glass. Then Jerry stood social glasses all around, and
then Chris, not to be outdone, also stood social glasses,
and with three social glasses aboard, to say nothing of
the ale and egg-nogg, I paid the admission fee, went
through a narrow passageway into a back-yard and
down some stone-steps into a cellar. Here was the cock-
pit, surrounded 'by an amphitheatre of rough benches

I)

/

GARRET VAN HORN.

125

and lighted by many tallow-candles stuck in tin sconces.
Along the walls were coops of cocks, eager for the fray,
and crowing defiantly at each other. There were but
few persons present as yet, and these were gathered in
one corner around a sweaPeloth gambling for coppers
and sixpences. We watched the play for some moments
when, as a prelude to the evening's entertainment, a
black boy struck up the then popular song of "Sitt6n
on a Rail," after which he danced a "breakdown" with
a glass decanter~ poised on his woolly head, and conclu-
ded by stretching open his large mouth and catching the
coppers showered at him in that amazing cavity.
As soon as the place was filled the serious business
began. Blacklegs, stablemen, butchers' apprentices, and
some countrymen composed the assemblage. Jerry and
I secured seats on the front row of benches. Opposite
to us sat several young men in red-flannel shirts orna-
mented with pearl buttons. One, who wore white
braces with a leather engine-number and name "Gqod
intent" on his back, began whistling at me. His com-
panions laughed, and cried, "Carlo! Carlo !" and the
Good-Intent boy said I owed the barber a shilling. For
these gall ant youths, it seemed, were displeased at my
mode of wearing the hair, it being the fashion in thQse
days for "Volunteers" to crop the hair at the back of
the head and wear it long in front with greased side-
locks, whereas, my hair being long behind and my shirt
a white one, I was justly amenable to their censure, and
thought it best to retire to a less conspicuous seat.
Two cocks with trimmed feathers, cut combs and
wattles, and armed with needle-gaffs, were put into the
pit. Firm and square they stood-.vigilant and vindic-


1

126

~*ARRET VAN HORN.

tive-then sparred, feinted, dodged, and struck like any
gladiator. Pluckiest of animals they fought till their
white hackles were all crimson, their little vivid eyes
pecked out, and falling exhausted, rose again, staggering
and blind, to deal thrusts even with their last heart's
throb! Then the dead bird was flung ignominiously
out and fresh ones introduced, and so the sport con-
tinued, while bets and challenges were bandied about
among the spectators around the pit. Finally a dis-
pute arose; a pugilistic butcher having lost a wager
refused to pay on the score of unfair play, which led to
some derogatory expletive from the winner. At this
the butcher swore he had a "Domnick" hen that could
lick the other's main of cocks and their owner to boot.
The other forcibly expressed his doubts as to the feasi-
bility of that feat even if assisted. by a brace of~ swin-
dling butchers, whereupon the butcher, as an experiment,
delivered a "hot one" on the other's "fly-trap," which
drew forth a rejoinder of blows, and then pell-mell the
friends of each combatant were drawn into the scrimmage
and a battle-royal ensued. As I was trying to avoid the
row the Good-Intent boy, who had been so right-
eously offended at the cut of my hair, approached me
and inquired in ~an aggressive tone who I was looking
at? Before I could frame a suitable reply to his ques-
tion, he dealt me an intercostal punch, pegged away a~
i~y profile, and knocked me supine, all in the short space
of five minutes. For another five minutes I lay uncer~
tam if I were an entirety or lying about dismembered,
until Jerry shook me to rights and lugged me in to Chris,
who rubbed my head with brandy, poured some down
my throat, and held ice to my eyes. I was in a woful

0AflRET VAN HORN.

127

plight. Bruised, bloodied, coat ripped up the back, fat
watch gone, and beaver hat crushed into a dirty poly-
gonal object. The quantity of vile liquor they had made
me swallow, almost drove me crazy, and I insisted on
seeking the Good-Intent boy, and demolishing his be-
nevolent head. It was with much difficulty that Jerry
could induce me to forego this intention and drag me
homeward, while I staggered along sparring away with
vengeful energy at imaginary "Good-Intents." Arrived
at the house, Jerry slipped ofi leaving me fumbling
in vain for the bell-pull. At last, b~ilnful of valor and
unawed by any consideration, I began to kick and
thump madly at the door. The racket was such as to
awaken the household and down caine Dennis followed
by Mr. and Mrs. Van Horn. "Who's there?" shouted
Dennis, a little alarmed. No answer, but a thump on
the side-light which shivered the glass to bits. ~" Who's
there ?" again bawled Dennis, and he swung open the
door causing me to land face down on the hall floor.
"Mercy on us !" exclajmeit Aunt Jane, "it's Garr~t !"
Dennis lifted mc,~aid 2ere I stood, steadying myself
against the ~v lHn the foggy idea that there was a cata-
strophe somewhere. Fancy my figur~ with a rimless
hat, hal' wet and straggling, and a swollen nose looking
if bedaubed with raspberry jam!
"how came you in such a condition, sir? What has
happened, sir ?" said my uncle, sternly.
"Had little mis-inissunderstandin.---oney littl' mis-
understandin,-.~--. that's all-little inissunder "-
"Where have you been,, sir, at this time of night ?"
"Cock-cock-fight," said I.
"Cock-fight !" repeated my uncle with as much con-


4

128

GART~ET VAN llOI~N.

- sternation and disgust as his immobile fcatilres could
express.
"Cock-fight !" said my aunt in the accents of despair.
"0 Garry, why didn't you stay at home and practise
your clarionet ?"
"No-no-not cock-fight," said I with a vague notion
that I had put my foot in it. "The-ayter--theayter."
"The-ayter !" almost groaned my uncle, more dis.
gusted than ever.
"The-ayter !" echoed my aunt; "0 Garry-Garry!
what will become of you ~"
Had a bolt from heaven struck me dead at that instant
I doubt if Uncle Garret would have been surprised. He
would have viewed it solely as a just retribution for my
heinous offence. No further questioning was needed
after my last avowal, and Mr. and Mrs. Van horn
returned to their room in the full conviction that I was
in the grasp of perdition; while poor I, with a bewil-
dered idea of not having mended matters by my expla-
nations, was led up stairs by Dennis who pulled off my
boots and put me to bed.
For a week or so after this unfortunate occurrence I
was forced to peep to my room, and carefully avoided
meeting Uncle Garret, until my features being restored
to a reputable appearance, I went meekly to the count-
ing-room and applied mysel? with great seriousness to
work. Ere long, however, Mr. Van horn accosted me
with a request to walk into his private office, as lie
wished to say a few words to me: I obeyed, very
reluctantly, expecting a severe reprimand and perhaps
a dismissal. He closed the door.
"Sit down."

GARRET VAN HORN.

129

I did so with about the same feeling one takes a seats
in a dentist's chair,
M~ uncle took off his spectacles,.-a habit he had when
he intended to be more than usually impre~sive,-~--.and
began: "I am not going to scold you. I am not going
to tell you how much surprised, and how much more
pained I was on seeing you in the shameful condition
you were in on that unfortunate night. II feel I cannot. I
am incompetent to deal with such a case, but I know
that you have acquired vile habits and evil associations
which may prove your ruin. I have consulted with 1~he
Rev. Dr. Westervelt and laid your case before him, and
we have come to the conclusion that the only way to
arrest you on your headlong career to destruction is to
sever you at once from the degrading temptations that
abound in i~his large city. Now tell me; do you still
wish to try a seafaring life ?"
"I do, sir," I answered, much relieved i4 this unex~
pected turn in the conversation.
"The Splendid sails in a few days, Saturday at the
farthest. If your father consents, I will speak to
Captain Widdie and procure you a berth on board,
before the mast. Captain Widdie is a very respectable
and pious man. The ship is a temperance ship, and an
orderly and a comfortable one. There you will have
* time for sober reflection which I hope will have a bene-
ficial effect. You have not much time to prepare. Go
at once to Jersey-I will write a note to your father
explaining matters. Then return as speedily as possible
and go to Jewell's in Cherry street, near the market.
Let them fit you out with a chest, stout clothing, and
whatever things may be necessary, and tell them to send


130         t~A1~RET VAN HORN.                                         GARRBT VAN HORN,        131

the bill to inc. Before doing that, however, you had
better return here 'and sign the shipping articles."
I left the office, crossed the Courtlandt-street ferry to
Jersey City and walked to Communipaw, with my heart
fi~ll of mingled pleasure and sadness. It was a dull, leaden,
November day, and the more clearly imprinted on my
mei~ory from its being the last on which I ever saw my
father, and such melancholy visits are not easily forgot~
ten. The little spot that shone so bright and green in
the summer landscape seemed now struck by desola.
tion. The salt-marsh stubble was sere and yellow,
dotted here and there with a tawny stack; the waters
of the cove washed against the beach in a low unceas-
ing moan, and the wind swept in sighs through the
shivering, skeleton elms. There was a premonition in
the soene; all seemed bleak and dying; and I felt a chill
of future sorrow seize my heart.
The house doors were locked, from which I inferred
that father had gone to raise the fykes or to gather
oysters as the tide was at low ebb. I walked around
the garden and about the out-houses, examining the old
familiar objects that perhaps I might never see again,
until father returned. A boy was with him, a cousin of
mine, little Cornelius Vreeland, who plied me with
questions while father went into the house to get his
spectacles and read the letter I had brought to him. I
had not the courage to speak my errand, and when after
reading he stood looking at me with so sad a counte-
nance, I was almost ready to tell him I had changed my
mind and desired but to remain at home for ever. "Well
-weli, boy," said he, "ef you must go, you must go,

I 'spose. Your uncle says he finks dat it 'II be debist
for you, and he knows bist. Well-well-well, so we
go. Old legs can't 'spect young legs to stay at home.
rrings ain't now as cloy used to be."
He led me alone into a room which had never been
used since my mother's time, and was now bare and
very dusty. Putting his arm up the chimney flue, he
detached a brick, and drew forth an old woollen stock-
ing thickly stuffed with gold pieces. Toling out a
liberal portion, much to my surprise who had never
seen him before part with so much money without an
equivalent, he said, "Don't spend dis, Garry, 'less you be.
hard pushed. It takes mighty sight o' hard work and.
scraping' to git togedder a few pieces like cern. Now,
do be keerful on 'em boy." He also took from an old
trunk in the kitchen a razor and strop. "Dere, I bin
keeping' dese for you. It's 'bout time you begin to use
'em; take 'ew long wid you."
Not wishing to prolong the parting, I bade father
farewell, and hastened away while he stood on the door-
step watching me disappear from him for ever. Perhaps
had I known this, could I have foreseen that we would
never meet again, I woukl not have walked away with
so accelerated. a step.

V.


G~AIU~Ji~T VA~T HORN.

(

CHAPTER VIII.
WUERE ~FU]~ SEA LED ME.

~ft&amp;RRET has a great notion of following the sea,
U Captain Widdie," said Mr. Van Horn, after I
had signed the articles, and was rated boy on board
the good ship Splendid. "So I want you to make a
trial of him, and Captain, don't show him any favorit-
ism in any way on' account of his connexion with me."
"0, I've E ~ doubt ~ut we'll get along very well to-
gether," replied the a tam. "He'll b~ a regular
blue-jacket, I'll be bound, by the time we get back."
Very different, indeed, was this ship-master in appear~
ance from the received idea of such a functionary. He
was in all a fine specimen of a salt-water dandy. When
his vessel arrived in port, he left her immediately and
took rooms at the most fashionable hotel, and ~wyer
went again on ship-bo~iv4 until the tug was alongside,
In superfine broadcloth w~ he clad, with perfumed and

glossy hair, bright green kid gloves, thin japanned
boots, and an eye-glass and cane! Think of' that for a
sailor out of' salem! He was also extremely sensitive
as to being thought a seaman, and scrupulously avoided
the appearance of one. It was not at all likely that
such an officer could have obtained employment from
my uncle; but the Splendid, in fact, belonged to
Salem, and our house merely acted as consignees. Cap..
tam Widdie, too, was part owner of the ship, and as his
relatives owned the remainder, his being commander
was easily accounted for. She was habitually employed
in the East India trade, and was now about to take a
hold-full of cotton sheetings, kegs of Carolus dollars,
and ginseng to Canton, in exchange for teas, silks, fire-
crackers, and matting. I ha thus the prospect of a
pleasant Pacific voyage.
Now came more leave-takings; with Myndert, who
made me promise to write every week at least; with
my uncle, who bade me before all to cling to my Bible
and read it frequently; ~with Aunt Jane, who added
some preserves and a huge fruit cake to a stock of
admonitions respecting my moral and. physical health,
and then, a private tearing away from Laura the
enslaver, who gave me a lock of hair and a ring in ex-
change for my kiss; and finally, arriid a shower of tears
from Aunt Jane and Laura, I escaped into a hackney
coach that was awaiting to bear me, my clothes-bag and
my fortunes, away, like young Harry Binif; from iny~
dear native bowers, th ocean to roam.
As yet I had not seen th Splendid. She had lain at
'the Brooklyn wharves, a on the morning of I icr
departure was hauled out into the stream opposite

A

18

I'
'I

~1


134

GARRET VAN HORN.

Counties Slip. On arriving at the pier-head, I alighted
and paid the driver. Alongside th~ dock lay a schooner,
from which two men were endeavoring to get three or
four drunken sailors into a yawl. The one, who seemed
to be in authority, was a short, stout man with a bullet-
head, and sharp eyes vivid as quicksilver. I told him I
wanted to get on board Captain Widdie's ship Splen-
did. "Shipped on her ?" inquired he, scanning my
bran-new toggery.
"Aye, aye !" said I, feeling every inch a sailor; more
so, in fact, than on any subsequent occasion.
"Then jump in the boat here, lively I"
I obeyed, and took a seat in the stern-sheets, while he
continued his efforts to embark the sailors. In this he
was assisted by another, probably a boarding-house
keeper or crimp of some kind, and they had an awk-
ward time of it, for the men being stupidly tiipsy re-
pelled all persuasion, and it was only after much strug-
gling and cursing that they were impounded. One, an
old grey-headed man, with a visage variegated by
violent contact with aggressive knuckles, was very
troublesome, and in his recalcitrant efforts dropped a
bundle of clay-pipes into the water, and then fell over-
board after them. Luckily he was fished up in time,
and laid dripping on the floor of the boat. Yot in the
least sobered by the ducking he tried again to escape,
when the short man rapped him smartly on the sk~Jl
with a thole-pin, tied his arms with the painter, and
laying him fiat, bade me sit on him to keep him quiet.
I hesitated, having conscientious scruples about smother-
ing a fellow-being; but the order being peremptorily
repeated, I complied.

GARRET VAN HORN.

135

After a few strokes of the oars we touched the ship's
side, and with the aid of a whip-tackle the men were
swung on board. The good ship Splendid certainly
belied her name, for a more battered, rusty, unseemly
old hulk never floated in the East River, and evidently
but little was ever expended on her in the way of paint,
cordage, or canvass. As soon as I got on deck I went
towards the cabin to report myself to the Captain,
when the short man roared out; "Go forward! young-
stergo forward'!" It struck me he was unnecessarily
abrupt, and that a little politeness in his tone would
have improved it vastly. I said as much to the cook in
the galley, and asked him who the man was? "Dat's
Mr. Benson, do mate, sure nuff. Ilee's bully boy too,
I kin tell yei'. Muss kip wedder-eye skinned, git long
wid 'im."
"Where's Captain Widdie ?"
"Ole man's not board yit. He'll be long wid de
steam-boat."
Along came Benson snapping and snarling like a
hungry menagerie, and kicking my luggage about the
deck without the slightest formality. "Off with them
traps, you young monkey! Stow 'em in the fo'cussle,
or I'll heave ~ overboard, quicker er wink !" Down
I dragged my chest and clothes-bag into the "fo'cussle,"
a triangular den sunk in the bow of the vessel, and con-
taining two tiers of bunks; a black filthy hole reeking
with the stench of bilge-water, tobacco fumes, and
pepper, a cargo of which condiment she had carried
from Sumatra on her previous voyage.'
But now came the tug-boat with our gallant ~aptain,
and I began my sailor duty by heaving away at the

-p

$1
II
ii


136         ~fARRET VAN HORN,

OAtLRBT VAN liORN.

wii~dlass to the tune of "Sally ~ the bright
mulatter."
Then away we glided past Governor's Island, Red
Hook, and Staten Island~ The tug left th~ ship; she
listed to her bellying sails; soon the hills of Navesink
sank from view; home and friends sank with them; and
the blue, boundless ocean lay around us!
I stood the rocking of the ship without inconvenience
until towards evening, the wind having increased, I felt
premonitory symptoms of sea-sickness. Making the
shortest possible cut to my berth I crept in, feeling ex-
cessively qualmish, a sensation the fetid atmosphere of
the place tended to aggravate. Soon the ship began to
pitch and strain. I could hear the mate roaring like a
baited bull, the men running about the deck, their
"heave-heo,"----the creaking of blocks and flapping ofi
sails; whilst in the forecastle the chests, not being
lashed, slid up and down and against the drunken men
who were sleeping off their debauch. My illness in-
creased. The ship rolled and plunged as if about to
break into bits, while at intervals she would stop and
quiver in resistance to the enormous waves that dashed
against her. Two days lasted the gale, during which
time I lay in my bunk suffering the pain of that intense
nausea, and incapable of taking any nourishment save a
little rice-water brought to me by a Portuguese ship-
mate. All may Lmderstand, who have suffered from
similar attempts to turn one-self inside out; how I re-
pented having left home; how speedily all my bright
anticipations vanished, and how even the image~of
Laura Ludlow, that ringleted syren, was completely

N

effaced in the general demolishment of my enthusiasm,
for pray, what passion, what constancy can withstand a
sensitive' stomach, oscillations, and an atmosphere rank
with pepper and stale tobacco-smoke? The Portu~
guese came to me on the third morning as I lay
helpless. "Rouse up and shake yourself. Never get
well laying there. Come on deck and take a mouthful
of frcsh air."
Wiili a little exertion I reached the deck, and the sea
being less agitated and a fine bracing breeze blowing I
felt revived. The cook kindly gave me some broth.
"Put dis 'tween your ribs-dat'le take de kinks out-
nebber do be cascading' allus."
This strengthened me, and as from that time we had
much fine weather I became well' and hearty and ac-
quired a voracious appetite, so that I now look back
with amazement on the quantities of salt-junk and plum-
duff I made away with, especially as some of that salt-
junk had twice circumnavigated the globe, and unlike
Madeira wine had certainly not been improved in fla-
vor by its extensive voyaging.
During my sickness some rogue had forced open my
chest and stolen the cake and preserves. Luckily no-
thing else was missing. What could have induced any
salons son of Neptune to pilfer those confections,
would be difficult ~to say, unless he mistook the dark
fruit-cake for Cavendish tobacco. Petty thieves, how-
ever, are always inconsequent; l3ardolph, we know,
"stole a lute-case; bore it twelve leagues, and sold it
for three half-pence."
I wanted to complain to the captain about the theft,
but Silva the Portuguese advised me not to, as it might

1~

187


138

GA1U~ET VAN 3IORN.

lead me into trouble, and it was well that the trash
was gone.
And Captain Widdie, that popinjay mariner, who had
accosted me so amiably in my uncle's office, what a
metamorphosis did he present! Instead of those glossy,
well-fitting habiliments, he wore now the shabbiest,
patched, threadbare clothes possible; dirty dungaree
overalls~ rusty snuff-colored coat, and a pair of soiled
kid gloves to preserve his precious paws! Possibly was
he aware of the congruity of his raiment with the
amienrance of his ship, for~ everything about her cer-
tainly betokened a niggardly spirit in her owners and
commander. He had the' reputation among the crew
of being a better navigator than sailor, i. c. better
acquainted with the theory than the practice of his pro-
fession, and he seldom caine out of the cabin except to
pace the quarter-deck after' dinner, to take the sun, or to
look at the weather for an instant. As for my humble
self, this potentate deigned not to notice me, or even to
inquire if such a person as Garret Van horn were on
board.
My uncle's intention in sending me to sea vas to
wean inc from evil ways by withdrawing me from temp-
tation and pernicious example. He had selected the
Splendid as a most suitable ship on account of her being
commanded by respectable, sober, God-fearing ofllcer~.
In all this he had wofully miscalculated. The owners
of the Splendid were doubtless well-meaning folks, who
spent what they saved from cheap stores, in good books
and tracts for the forecastle, but Captain Widdie was
too economical to throw pearls before swine, and, instead
of distributing the volumes among the crew, stowed

GA1U~T VAN HORN.

189

)

I them away in hi~ cabin to be disposed of as 4he found
most profitable to himself. The tracts, I regret to say,
were in demand for pipe4ights, for the only literature
acceptable to these heathen of the forecastle was such as
the "Pirate's Own Book~" "Shipwrecks and Disasters
at Sea," or the "Jim Crow Songster." I wished that
Captain Widdie had profited by the stock of excellent
works in his possession, for he was an avaricious and
hypocritical man. He would not swear round open
oaths, but used euphemistic expletives that meant as
much and were just as vicious. Bully Benson, however,
the first mate, did not dilute his profanity' and was
indeed a terrible swearer. At times he would vomit
forth a profusion of oaths and imprecations blasphemous
enough to luring do~~n a thunderbolt on his impious
head. lie was cruel too, and would batter the men
with his iron fists until they feared him as a spaniel does
the switch. The second mate, Joel Brett, was a differ-
ent man from either of the superior officers. lie was a
tall young fellow, with bushy whiskers and small femi-
nine features, and the only officer liked at all by the
crew.
If Captain Widdie neglected me, Mr. Benson certainly
did not. From him, on the contrary, II received~ an
excess of attention, more persistent than agreeable.
lie was always "hazing" me. From the moment he
saw me alight from the hackney coach at the wharf his
enmity was "engendered, and when he learnt I was of a
rich flimily his hate was rooted. To punish me for all
this presumption he would set me about the most disa-
greeable offices. lie liked, he said, to take the starch
out of city lads; rich men's ~ons had no call to follow


140         GARRET VAN IIORN.                                     GARRET VAN EQRN,

141

the ~ea and take the bread out of poor boys' mouths.
So I was installed supervisor of the chicken-coops and
pig-pen, and set at a deal more slashing, and polishing
of capstan-head and binnacle, than was at all necessary.
The crew were a vulgar disrespectful set, and excepting
two or three, not to be associated with. An idea seemed
to prevail among them that I was a runaway cobbler's
apprentice, and so they called me "Wax." I tried to
explain away this erroneous idea, but was only derided
and annoyed the more by the obnoxious nick-name.
They were mostly foreigners, and I found but four
Americans among them besides myself. The others
comprised natives of almost every European nation,
The old man who had behaved so obstreperously during
the embarkation was a Manxman, an old weather-beaten
sea-dog who had been tossed on every wave of the two
oceans. He had even been skipper once, but his beset-
ting vice, drunkenness, had ruined him, The old fellow
had a great idea of his importance, and since his debauch
had been very quiet and reserved. He carefully kept
an old battered quadrant, a relic of better days, and it
was sadly ludk~rous to se'e him every fine day at noon,
take the quadrant from its case, level it with great
gravity, and announce it Meridian, There he stood like
a statue, the instrument adjusted to his discolored eye
(which lasted him till we reached the Line) and the grey
locks streaming in the wind from beneath his thrum
cap. He was an intelligent man, and it was painful to
reflect that one so aged should habitually wallow in the
slime of debauchery to be at last cast, like the drifting
sea-weed, on some foreign strand to die. Yet such is
the fate of how many, many, sailors!

Another notable was Silva the Portuguese. His was
indeed a checkered existence. A man of about fi#e-and-
forty, with a complexion, burnt by the torrid sun, dark
as a Kanaka's, and a frame of herculean strength. I
saw him, when two men were striving to lift a cask of
beef through the booby hatch, push them aside, and
with an easy swing heave the cask on deck. His consti-
t~ution, nursed in the mild breezes of Madeira, seemed
capable of withstanding any assault; he had received
gun-shot wounds and cutlass-gashes, a bo~c of sugar had
fallen on him crushing, in his ribs, the vomito had pro-
strated him and the African coast fever, and yet his
vigor remained unimpaired. Though a peaceable man
he was easily irritated, and when molested would lash
himself into a burst of volcanic anger ~arfulto witness,
which caused him to be held in respectful dread by the
rest of the crew. With me he was quite communicative,
and I found him a, man of much crude intelligence,
who, had he received a plain education (for he could
neither read noi; write), would certainly have made his
mark. I had great admiration for him as the prototype
of those romantic pirate captains and heroic smugglers
I had so often read of; for he had been engaged in all
kinds of lawful and unlawful adventures; had owned
vessels; had been proprietor of a slave-factory near
Gallinas, which was burnt by English rockets, had
smuggled soap into Madeira, where that article is con-
t~aband, for which he had suffered a long imprisonment,
aud in more and various enterprises of a hazardous
nature, all of which would have formed a very enter- -
taming book of marvels.
The remainder of bay ship-.mates, with hut few excep.


GARRET YA~ HORN

GARRET VA~ HORS.

tion~, were of the scum of the earth, the raking of sea..
ports; men more allied in Their instincts to beasts than
to human beings, and withal just as mean and selfish as
landsmen. So much, in my opinion, for the popular
fallacy about the generosity, gallnntry, and nobleness
of seamen, and rude reality~
]~re we reached our destination I wa~ quite a sailor.
I had got beyond such minor duties as hobjing the reel
while the log was cast, etc., and could take a trick at
the helm, work a double-crowned wall-knot, serve,
parcel, sew, or furl the royals with the best of them. On
one occasion, while at the wheel, I had a serious diffi-
culty with Mr. Benson. It was on one of those pleasant
nights in the Indian Ocean, when the steady breeze
permits duck to be spread from every spar and stay;
on one of those nights so conducive to meditation, that
yielding to its influence, and unmindful of the needle,
my wits ~vent a wool-gathering, or a "building of hay-
stacks," as the sailors have it, whereby the ship fell
several points off her course. This soon attracted Mr.
Benson's notice, who brushed away my musings by an
exciarnation of anger, and his usual threat to rope's-end
me. Another hand was sent to take my place, whilst I
betook myself to the lee of the long-boat, and went to
sleep under some spare sails. Before long I was sud-
denly aroused by a bucketful of water dashed over mc,
followed by a kick in my ribs. Of course I was indebted
to the first mate for this, and I acknowledged it, as soon
as I recovered my scattered senses, by hurling an iron
belaying-pin at his head. He dodged it, fortunately for
him, and made for me. Quick as a cat I was up the
main rigging, while he stood below shaking his fist,

cursing me for a wicked monkey, and swearing lie would
tan my hide handsomely when he caught me. But I
remained in the cross-trees all night, taking cat-naps
alongside the sweet little cherub that sits up aloft, and
when day came sought ref in the cabin, and en-'
treated the Captain to save me from the mate's fury.
The Captain pompously said he had a good mind to put
me in irons, and have me sent to the States to be tried
as a mutineer; discipline was getting outrageously lax
aboard his ship, and it was about time insubordination
was put a stop to. It was a good opportunity for him.
to make a quarter-deck harangue, and he improved it.
The crew were summoned ~ft, and he gave them a
piece of his mind. He had heard, he said, that some
remarks had been made by some of 'em, about the
beans and beef. Now, if they didn't shut up about the
beans and beef, he'd be darned if he wouldn't have
every darn one of 'em in irons in three shakes of a K
sheep's tail, darn him if he wouldn't, mind that! Darn
set of mutinous scamps they were, always growing'
about the beans and beef, and heaving' belaying-pins
round! Darn 'em, they all ought to have six dozen
lashes apiece, washed down with pickle, darn their
11 eyes I And he'd do it too, darned if he wouldn't, if
there was any more growing' about the beans and beef
goin' on. Go forward, darn you all!
Thus I escaped Benson's rage for the moment, but he
had his revenge out of me piecemeal. I had n~ot an
instant's peace between slushing top-masts, polishing
ring-bolts, and scaling the sheet anchor, all'- beneath his
fault-finding eye, and forty-two pounder oaths. "Fore
I'm through with you, you soulpin, I'll make you scour

Ii

143

142


1~14           GA1U~ET VAN EtQBN*
them flukes bright as a looking-glass. See if' I don't,
blast ye 1"
Arrived at China we sailed about from one port to
another until we had completed our cargo. Now
vanished another illusion, as the charmed land of'
Kathay and its inhabitants were reduced to real and
very dirty aspects. A confused \picture remains to me
of paddy fields and ducks, pig-tailed men, bamboo,
tauka-boats, matting, junks, thick soles, and tea. The
children were very bright, intelligent ones, the pilots
exceedingly expert, and the lower classes, as far as a
limited experience enabks one to judge, most knavish
and vicious. We had almost to watch the spikes in the
- ship to prevent their being stolen, and one night we dis.
covered some women, in a sampan, who h'ad sculled un-
perceived beneath our quarter, stripping the copper
sheathing from the rudder.
Mymind had been long made up to leave the Splendid
at the first opportunity and escape from Mr. Benson s
tyranny. I longed to return to Communipaw and re-
main contented at home, but unfortunately, while at
Hong-Kong, I received a letter which completely altered
my intention. It was from Myndert, and brought me the
painful news of my father's death. The blow came with
double force in view of the determination I had taken.
My grief was also rendered the sharper when I reflected
how much ingratitude .1 had shown towards a parent
who, through his seeming roughness, had always exhi-
bited the tenderest solicitudee and affection for his
children. Little do we think how each petty act of
filial unkindness may become a barbed and rankling
(regret, when death casts its true reflector on passed
'N)

GAIU~ET VAN HO1~N.         145

events. Happy the son whose conscience carries no sad
enduring reproof of parental love repaid by selfishness
and neglect.
Nyndert sent me two hundred dollars. This, with
the money previously given to me by father, constituted
in my view an almost inexhaustible purse. Thus pro-
vided I determined, instead of returning home, to
gratify my desire of seeing the chief cities of Europe.
Quietly giving Captain Widdie the slip, I took passage
on board an opium clipper to Bombay. Thence I ship~
pod on board an Indiaman to work my way to England,~
and some four months after w~s landed at the East-India
Docks, London. The sum of mone# sent me by Myn-
dert was still intact, the gold I had in reserve having
thus far more than summed for all my expenditures. I
took lodgings at an inn near the Strand, and for some
weeks was busily engaged with the wonders of that
interminable city. But London, to me, was not the
London~ the guide-books, but the London of Dickens.
Fiction and not History had tinged my mind, and
0
England was the ~ngland of my favorite books, Oliver
Twist and Pick~vick. Lomds, palaces, and monuments,
had no charms for me, but the pot-boys had, and the
footmen and beadles, stout red-faced men in top-boots
and charity children, brewers' drayinen and blue-coat
boys, porters with knots, 1)uxom bar-maids, and such
like things unknown in my country and yet so very
familiar. I loved to wander about Lincoln's Inn Fields
and Temple Gardens, Gray's Inn Lane and Holborn,
and even made a pilgrimage to Goswell street, and to
Field-Lane where I vow I beheld Fagin's relatives and
'I

4-


146

GARRBT VAN HORN.

the identical Barney at the door of a depot of pilfered
"wipes." And there was the Old Bailey, grim New-
gate, and St. Sepulchre's, worth a dozen Abbeys ~and
Buckiugham Palaces. I would have preferred by far to
visit Mr. Dickens than to pass a week with thc Queen
at Windsor, for he, ivithout doubt, could have intro-
duced me to Mr. Pickwick, Mr. Snodgrass, Mr. Weller,
and other gentlemen familiar to me by reputation, and
who must certainly have been living somewhere about
London. What intimate friends, in fact, do our favorite
authors and their creations become. How sincere is this
friendship; how invariable and lasting!
But I could not reconcile these modern Londoners
with those of Hogarth, or the Spectator. Can the
smirking beau of Ranelagh and the Mall; the fop with
clouded cane, powdered peruke, arid muff; the dashing
wit of the Cocoa-Tree who daintily applauded Mrs.
]3racegirdle and crossed rapiers behind Montague
House; the fierce Mohock who could slit the nose of a
knayish cit for pastime, break drawers' heads, and
drink from his mistress's shoe; the smooth tripping rake
with his pouncet-box, cocked hat, three-pile velvet, lace
and frills ;-can those graceful, witty, polished, reckless
debauchees be the ancestors of the stiff, starched, angu-
lar, haughty lords and honorable of the Parliament and
Opera-house, or of the heavy stolid guardsmen and stupid
gents who throng the Coal-Hole, rat-killing matches, and
the Casinos? Old English comedies always seem to me
like translations of French plays. Captain Macheath is
very unlike an Englishman or Scotsman of the present
day, even so is Falstaff; there is certainly nothing of the
Briton as we see him now about the fat, rollicking, witty

4

GARRET VAN flORN~.

147

knight, except it be his contour. Perhaps are all these
changes of temperament owing to pale ale and XXX
porter's having .replaced sherris sack and malm~ey,
or is it because the rapier is banished? The lower
classes of Spain are the politest in the world, and tra-
vellers have attributed it to their wearing knives. Certain
is it that when rudeness may be resented by the prick
of a steel point, it tends to make men exceedingly amia-
ble, and mindful of their neighbors' toes and elbows.
A few months' sojourn in the capital of England well-
nigh exhausted all my funds, and I wrote to Myndert to
remit to me as soon as possible all the money he con-
veniently could, as I intended to travel on the Conti-
nent. I told him, also, that being aware that our father
had left a considerable amount of property, I should like
to know xvhat~ disposition he had made of it. Not a
word, all this time, had passed between Mr. Van Horn
and myself, for being in the expectation of a handsome
legacy I felt naturally~ enough in an independent mood.
Myndert's answer was not long in coming. He had either
misunderstood the drift of my letter or had forgotten
my inquiries, for his epistle contained nothing to en-
lighten me about the amount of my legacy. However
it brought me money, my pressing want, and so isped
to the Continent.
Paris pleased me at once. The contrast was so agree-
able between its gay edifices, light atmosphere, and
clear sky, and dun-colored, smoky, humid London, that
the change exhilarated me as with wine. There was a
total absence hei~e of gloominess, - even in the lowest
quarters, the Rue ~V[ouffetard for instance, or the Rue
aux F~ves, beneath the shadow of old Notre Dame.

I'


ill
{~t
~Ij
ii

GARRET' VAN KOR~

GARRET VAN HORN.

Nothing~ oppressed one with that sense 91f loneliness and
d~udg~ry of life which the stranger fe~'1s in the Strand.
In London, I lived only on familiar terms with my ficti-
tious friends; from the hosts that hurried by me in Fleet
street, or dashed through the park in elegant equipages,
an impassable barrier separated me. But in Paris I felt
completely at home, and as if I had seen* every one
~ccwe~ of times before. I ha~1 no hesitation in con-
versing, as well as I could, with the picture-dealer on
the Boulevard, or the coco-merchant, or the piou-piou
(conscript), who was a fellow-spectator with me at the
raree-show, in the Champs Elys6es. I did not give
them my heart, to be sure, nor did I expect that
because they were civil and obliging, they should offer
me tlr~ir purses. All I needed was the recognition that
~( belonged to the human species, and that courteous-
ness, which costs nothing to good-nature, but is never-
theless so acceptable, and I received it. My little
~knowledge of the French language was rapidly increased,
and ere long I could converse with facility. The town
was so much to my taste in every respect, that I con-
cocted a plan to enable me to prolong my stay there
with the approbation of my uncle. I wrote to him, in a
dutiful and affectionat&amp; way, that having found a mari-
time life very distasteful, on account of the irreligious
and immoral men it forced me to associate with, I was
obliged, much to my regret, to abandon it. I now
wished to enter upon the study of medicine, for which
purpose I had come to Paris as that city afforded
superior facilities to students, and with his permission, I
desired to remain there. My uncle replied, that as he
intended to give me every opportunity to make my way

149

in life, he would accede to my wishes, and therefore
authorized me to draw on him, through Hottinguer ~
Co., for whatever sums I might find necessary, with the
stipulation that they were not to exceed in the total
six hundred dollars the year. This was not a liberal
allowance, but I was indifferent about it, as I expected
that Myndert would keep me supplied with all the
money I might need.
I matriculated at the School of Medicine. At the
outset 1 was rather pleased with the novelty of the
study and applied myself with diligence; but before
long attendance in the dissecting-room and walks in the
hospital became very irksome and distasteful. having
made the acquaintance of several young men of my own
age and temperament, I was soon 'initiated into all the
joyous haunts of the Pays-Latin. A careless, jovial set of
fellows they were, as students are all the world over,
and to say the truth, we led a vagabond life of it.
Although I 'neglected the Museum of Comparative
Anatomy and the H6tet-Dieu, I was a frequent atten-
dant at the Ohaumi~re and at Bobino. Nay more, I
have even, lest me modestly avow it, had the honor at
Mobile's of dancing with those distinguished Terpsi-
chorean queens, Pomar6 and~ Frisette. Indeed, on a
notable occasion at a masked ball, while striving to gain
~he applause of the latter damsel and out-rival my vis-
4-ok, the famous Chicard, I executed a ccwalier .seul
that was talked about for a week, I pinched a light
can-can, turned a neat summersault, danced about up~
si(1e down for a few seconds to the tune of "Hetme
Allou," and then righted myself with a kick that
knocked the beaver off a ily-swallqwer who stood
)

148


150           ~A5iI~E~L' VAI~ HOR~'O                                          GARRET VAN HORN.             151

staring with a false beak on. There was clapping of
hands from the by-standers at my able performance, and
a smile from Frisette; but a municipal was discourteous
enough to quench my triumph, and in spite of the en-
treaties of all present, insisted upon escorting me to the
violiA where, after a night's incarceration, I was released
on paying twenty francs fine for breiw~i of public
order.
And so it came to pass, that suppers at the Maison
d'Or, boating parties to Asnk~re, and other expensive
pleasures, created a greater demand on the avuncular
purse than that purse was willing to respond to, and I
finally received -the unwelcome intelligence at the
banker's that my credit was exhausted. I was then on
the verge of my majority, and feeling naturally indig-
nant at Mr. Van Horn's parsimony to one who would
come into the possession of an ample fortune in a short
time, I wrote to my brother to forward me enough to
supply my wants until the estate was divided, when I
anticipated a glorious season of i'cvelry and pleasure.
Myndert wrote, that owing to his having established
himself on his own account in business, he had need of
all his available means, and regretted that he was unable
to furnish me with the money i: required. He said he
had appealed to our uncle, who peremptorily refused to
give me more than my stipulated allowance. "For-
tunately," continued Myndert, "Dr. Rose having acci-
dentally heard of the strait you were in, kindly and
generously offered to loan me for your use, any sum you
might want, to be repaid by you at any time most con-
venient. At first I hesitateA to put you under any
obligations; but, as he was so pressing, and insisted so

st~enaously on accommodating you~ T accepted one
hundred dollars, which I beg you will return at the very
first opportunity, as debt is a moth to be carefully
avoided. II als'o enclose you twenty dollars, making to-
gether one hundred and twenty dollars, or six hundred
francs, which I hope will suffice for all your extraordi-
* nary expenses. Reports, I am. afraid, ~ave reached
Uncle Garret's ears about your extravagant and dissi-
pated habits from some person who was in Paris last
winter and saw you; but I sincerely trust, Garret, that
there is but little truth in that. I am well aware that
at your age no one can be expected to act with the
calmness and foresight of older people, but then, Garret,
there are limits to the permissible folly of youth, which
I am sure, as you regard your future happiness ~md
health, you will never transgress. I suppose you are
studying hard, and I've no doubt that after you obtain
your diploma from the Parisian school you will fall at
once into a good practice when you return here. I
often wish I were with you, there are so many ~places
in Paris I should like to visit. The conservatoire des
Arts et 7#I~tiers, the A1~s~e d'Artillerie, and the water-
works of Marly are among the most interesting, I am
told. I daresay you have seen them often. ~I ~should
also like to go to the Museum of Marine, and see if
there are any models now worth noticing. The French,
you are doubtless aware, were the first to inaugurate
our modern system of ship-building. Bouguer and
Renau being the earliest and most celebrated writers on
the theory of ship-building.
"In your next give me some description of the princi-
pal buildings, etc. etc. Write me a long letter giving

'I
Ii
j


&amp;AIu~T VAN HO1~.            153

152            GABRZT VAN HORN.
me det~il~, and don't be afraid of wasting pens and
paper.
"I enclose a note from Dr. Rose, and one from Mons.
Rivois to a cousin of his, which I promised the old
gentlem~~ you would gladly deliver. He is as brisk
and merry as ever.
"Your affectionate brother,
"Mv~DEnT VM~ Hom~."
"P. 5. I beg of you Garry to return that money to the
Doctor at the very flr8t opportunity. Don't forget .~'
I reperused this letter carefully. Not a word did
it contain about what I was most anxious to know.
I tossed it aside with a smile of bitter contempt, after
having, however, pocketed the draft for six hundred
francs. What could Myndert mean by his silence in
regard to the property left by my late father? A sus~
picion crossed my mind: the Van Horns ~vere a close-
fisted, money-loving and acquiring set, and Myndert
was not exempt from the family failing. Was he schem-
ing to deprive me of my legal and equitable right of
inheritance? Fired with indignation at such a thought
I wrote an urgent, bold, and somewhat reproachful
letter to my unck~, demanding an explanation of Myn4
dert's singular conduct.
Dr. Rose's note ran as follows:
'~ Dear Garry,"
"Understanding you were suffering from too copious
a depletion of the exchequer, I make bold, as the Irish~
~ncn say, to offer a world-renowned specific for th&amp;

'1

ii
I

same, which 2Vtyndeit will forward to you. Uncle Van
made some remarks about getting into expensive habits
and so forth. Asked him if he'd ever been young, said
he had, though I don't believe it. Then I told him he
should know how to make allowances for a young fellow
all blood and blue veins, and much more to the same
purpose, until the old gentleman was perfectly satisfied
with my explanations. I suppose you are ~ your
farces,' as they call it where you are. Well, go it, my
boy, youth and the season of pleasure soon pass away,
so enjoy it while you may. If you do spend a little
more money, you have time enough to hoard when gray
hairs comet Besides, remember, Uncle Van's worth a
good plump million and it is safe to say that somebody
we wot of will have a big share of that' pie when it's
cut up. Should you fall short again of the needful, and
Uncle Van be obdurate, let me know and I will if I can.
Depend on that.
"Sincerely, your friend,
"EDivw2u Rosn."
This was a generous and friendly offer, certainly, and
it appeared the more so w1~en contrasting it with the
meanness and injustice of a brother. I disdained answer-
ing the latter's letter hut acknowledged the Doctor's,
with many thanks for the loan, and promises to repay it
in a short time. This done I turned my attention to the
draft for six hundred francs and had it cashed. Six
hundred francs, it was a nice little lump o~ gold taken
all in Napo1~eons, but it slipped away so fast! Dr. Rose
gave good advice, youth soon passes and it's time enough
to hoard whe~2i one's grown grey. ~3o with some joyous


~it~
I

comrades we made the noce with a v~iigeance. S~ueh
riot and revelry, such feasting and folly, of a surety, was
never exceeded, not even by the Prodigal Son and his
boon companions. But the tempest was too severe to
last long and soon my purse was flaccid. Then came
the morn of repentance and the day of virtuous resolves,
when I fed on corn-husks and bitter herbs.
Time squandered, money squandered. Youth is the
same and has learnt nothingg since the world began.
Some time had elapsed ere I bethought me to deIfr~r
Monsieur Rivois' letter. It was addressed in this wise:
".1 .Akmsieur,"
"~M~.rnsieur Charles Antoine Dume~srn-i1, p&amp;e,
au~ soins de A o~rtsieur Charles Antoine .Dumesnit, fits,"
"Pari&amp;."
Searching in the " Alinanach du Commeree," I found
that "~.Dumesnit pare et fits," perffimers and distillers,
kept a shop at No. flue croix des Petits champs,
and going thither I was very politely received by Ma-
dame Charles Anthonyfits; who was book-keeper and.
manager of the sales department. She wa~ fat and
brisk, and apprised me that the Messrs. Dumesnil, father
and son, were at Fontenay-aux-Roses, a village near
Paris where they had a country house. "And," added
she, "if Monsieur would have the complaisance to go
there Sunday next and make us the pleasure to pass the
day with us, if it does not disarrange Monsieur too
much, we will be charmed to make the acquaintance of
a~friend of our relative Rivois."
I' accepted the invitation and next Sunday found me

at Fontenay-aux-Roses, so called from the great quantity
of roses cultivated there for the use of the Paris per.
fumers. The Dumesnils had an extensive laboratory
near their dwelling which was an unpretending and yet
pretty house, built of "moellon~," the soft cream-colored
stone quarried aroui~d Paris. Monsieur Dumesnil pare
was a good sl~ecimen of the bon- vieiltcrd~ He was
loquacious, and after many inquiries about his cousin
Rivois he invited me to inspect the garden, an object of
his especial solicitude. Whilst pointing out with his
staff a shrub here and a plant there, he interrogated me
about America. "It makes very hot in Amerique, is it
not? One has no need 'of furs. Coffee is cheap, with-
out doubt, and the sugar? and the tobacco? The
bananas they should grow wild? and the pine-apples
you have for nothing? How that musi; be magnificent,
that vegetation? how many slaves have you in your
family? and the savages ?" etc. etc. From which que-
ries I inferred that father Dumesnil's idea about my
native land was, like that of many other Frenchmen I
had met, that it was situated somewhere between the
Island of Martinique and the Louisiane. At dinner-
time the old gentleman presented to me with much
pride his two grand-children, one, an alert young tye~em
come on a weekly visit to his parents, and the other, a
pretty modest damsel of fourteen, dressed with the
exceeding neatness and plainness of French maidens.
At evening we all went to a village ball and here I
learnt that my host Dumesnil fits was Monsieur the
Mayor. I made myself ~s agreeable as possible and had
the honor 6f dancing with Madame Dumesnil and seve-
ral of the prettiest lasses present. Although this assem~

154         GARRET VAN HORN.                                          GARRET VAN HORN.        155

U-

155

3M


blage was composed of the poorer-though not~ humble
~-elass, yet everything was conducted with that freedom
from vulgarity, p1~etension, and rudeness, which is cha~.
racteristic of Continental peoples. Monday mQrning I
returned to town with Monsieur Dumesnilffls, and ac-
cepted his invitation to visit the family frequently. I
gladly availed mysdf of this permission to cultivate the
acquaintance of such agreeable people through wh9m I
sticceeded in getting an entree into the middle class of
French society, a privilege more difficult to obtain than
to penetrate into the wealthiest and most aristocratic
circles of the capital. I now discovered, what some
people who know nothing about it affect to doubt, that
the French hat~e homes, that they did7not all live in caf6s,
and spend their time in ~Aa~ying dominoes and drinking
sugar and water; but have homes, just as sweet and just
as bitter ones as may be found in any other part of the
universe.

CHAPTER 1X4
SOLDIER.
ruu~ ~notxths had elapsed before I received any
news from home. Now came a letter from Uncle
Garret, which must have been miscarried, as it purported
to have been written immediately on the receipt of mine.
Here were its contents:

Per "GREAT WESTERN~"
MR. GARRET VAN HORN,
PARIS,
"DR. SI :-Yours of the 18th
not comp with. your request P
informed y competent authoril
make you is amply sufficient to
lute and contingent to the p:
studies. You will therefore rest
to conform with my instruction
&amp; Co. of your city.

~EW Yon~, June 23, 18-
rR.
I~ance.
nlt. is before me. I can-
)r more money, as I am
by that the allowance I
meet all expenses abso-
roper pursuit of your
riot your~ disbursements
~ to Messrs. Hottinguer

156

GARRET VAN HORN. N


"I notice that you scorn to labor under a misapprehen-
sion in regard to property left you by your late father.
By th9 will of your lamented parent his whole estate,
both personal and real, is bequeathed to your brother
~Jyndert. Therefore I hasten to disabuse you of any
anticipations you may have formed in that respect.
I-loping that you will henceforth limit your expenditures
and shape your conduct so as to meet my approbation
remain,               "Your affectionate uncle,
"G. VAN HoRN."
This letter explained Myndert's reticence on the sub-
ject of my father's will, and moreover, exhibited his
parsimony in a very odious light. I never would have
believed it possible that he could have shown such
a niggardly spirit, such a lack ~f generosity and frater-
nal feeling as he did in offering me that insignificant pit-
tance out of his abundance. I would have starved now
rather than ask him for a copper; and resolved that at
the first opportunity I would repay him the beggarly
twenty dollars, and then break with him for ever.
Although I was disappointed at the disposition my
father had made of his property, yet, I was not much
surprised, as I could not but acknowledge that he had
been actuated entirely by the firm belief that I would
certainly inherit the far greater wealth of his brother.
I now perceived how completely I depended upon my
uncle's bounty. This reflection which in a shrewder per-
son would have rendered him supple and compliant, served
but to irritate my self-will. I hugged the belief that I was
unjustly treated, and sought some method to bring Uncle
Garret to a sense and repentaiThe of his harsh usage of me.

SI

Whilst I lived in the Latin Quarter my room-mate
was a young man by the name of Jules Flandrin. In
age he was a year or so younger than I, in brain about
as ill-ballasted a being. I-us parents were small gloves
in Grenoble, whose ambitious wishes were centered in
this son for whom they had pinched and saved that he
might become a prop and honor to their declining years.
Similarity of taste brought about a friendship between
Jules and me, and we shared each other's sorrows and
shirts, and dipped promiscuously in both purses. Fancy
us invested in that loose-fish style which proclaims the
student, with slouched caps, hair uncut, straggling neck-
erchief~, trowsers plaited at the waist and~ restless,
seated in a small traiteur's or restaurant in the Rue de
1' (Jniversit~. The traiteur was celebrated for his fricas-
seed sheep's trotters, and my friend and I had just made
away with a dish of those delectable morsels.
"There," said I to Jules, showing him the 'piece of
silver' wherewith I was about to pay for our repast ;~
"regard the last franc I have in the world."
"Good, I felicitate thee of it, my good Van I-Torn,"
replied Jules taking the pipe from his mouth. "Thou
returnest to the normal state of the man. What is
money but' a j~rejudice? if the world should rid itself
to-day of this prejudice thou and I, my dear, would be
as rich as stock-brokers. Thou hast begun by setting
the example and thou hast done well. At least, thou
hast done thy duty, which is always a great consolation
whatever happens."
"In awaiting that the rest of the world follow my
example and rid themselves of this prejudice what am I
to do? Listen; I am the adopted son of my uncle, who

168          GAThflJ~T VAN HORN.                                           GARRET VAN HORN.          1~9

159

158


I

GARRET VAN UORN.

is very rich. My father left everything he had to my
brother who is avaricious. I, comprehendest thou, was
to be heir to my uncle. Now, I am sent here, or II some
here, to Paris to study the medicine. Thou knowest
that the life is dear here; that there are books to be
bought, and other accessories to study which cost. Well
then, all that my miser of an uncle will allow me is a
beggarly seven hundred and fifty francs every three
months. What thickest thou of that ?"
"My faith," said Jules, "it is hard it is true, but it is
chronic that with the papas. They have always been
un#~asonable. How will you that a student pursue his
studies properly and not spend money? It's not possi-
ble. He earns nothing and one cannot live on such
wages. And the gloves and the ribbons for Mam'selle
Adele, it costs! without counting the treats of merin-
gues and raspberry vinegar for her, an~ occasionally a
bead or arm for oneself-not true? They don't think
of th%3se things."
"As thou conceive, t is mean smn not sufficing for
my little wants, the b uker, who is not totally devoid of
bowels (of compassion) obliged me by advancing on my
drafts: very well, and now I find on applyingt~ him this
morning that he has been instructed by my uncle not
to pay beyond my stipend. I saw the letter and he
snarls like an enraged dog. Isnot that enough to make
one disbelieve in all the Christian virtues? That man
not only evinces a total disregard of the sacred obliga-
tions he has assumed as a father, but he also treats me
like a child, precisely like a child."
"He would well merit it didst thou disown him, my
eLi one."

"There! I am in such a state, sec'st thou, that I
would as lief engage myself for a valet, or do any-
thing, never mind what, for not to be dependent' on
"Bali! do nothing so stupid."
"But what will yQu? I cannot starve."
"Put thy dissecting..case at thy aunt's." (English
slang, "uncle's.")
"It is there; and they have so many already, that
they would lend almost nothing on it."
"Sell thy books to the rao'-naan"
"They are sold; so much per pound."
"Good. We are brothers, and free. Listen at thy
turn. I am, as thpu perhaps knowest, the cadet of a
good family of Grenoble, honest lovers by occup~ition.
My elder brother succeeds to the factory and devotes
him to the kid-skins. Of me they wish to make a
doctor, as my good parents have the mania of believing
that I possess the best head of the family, which does
ndt give thee a great opinion of the wit of the others.
In fine, here I am, student in medicine. It was n'ot my
idea; but, what will you, the world esteems more a
carver of human skins than a carver of kid-skins, and
my father shares that opinion. My idea of mine was
the life military; but my father would not listen to it.
I drew a bad number at the conscription, and would
have much liked to go, but my father bought a substi-
tute, and, as you see, here I am in Paris, cetrabin.
These poor parents! see'st thou, my friend, I feel
myself guilty. What have I learnt since I have been
here? Nothing beyond the rudiments; the billiard,
the pipe, and the cancan, WhQre is this going to lead

GA1~ET VA~ HQ.1~N~I

160

161


GA~~U2~T VAN HORN.

me? To the glory, to the honor? 0, yes, je t'~m
ftc~hc / See'st thou, I have the taste to fight."
"At the savate, Item .~ As thou flanked some Sun-
day last at the Prado, at that sacred rn~e who em6c-
* t~d thy pretty brunette with the assassin eyes ?"
"Blaguer, va! Thou art mocking of me. There,
here is my idea. I am like thee, without the sou.
Good, let us make ourselves soldiers, Item Y Come-
what sayest thou, my old one, of it? In a few years
we will be captains-.--generals, who knows, or else"
"Dost thou recollect that piece of a man at the
Invalides without arms or legs-that animated log ?"
"Bah! what wilt thou, it is the fortune of war, my
dear. After all, at the end of the road there is the
tumble. Dost thou prefer becoming a vegetable, a
carrot, a parsnip, a leek? Is that the way, a young
man all fire and flames views the things? Come, be a
man. Let us enrol ourselves; as volunteers we will
have the preference when the chances for promotion
arrive. As for me, I am decided; I will put myself in
the hunters of Africa. Wilt thou follow me ?"
Turn soldier? The proposal at first presented no-
thing very attractive; but soon I tasted and relished
the bait. The more I thought of it the more pleased
was II with the idea; besides, I was in the mood to
accept any position that promised to relieve me from
my dependance on unnatural relatives. An inherent
love of adventure also prompted me to this rash step,
and so without more ado, as I spoke French as well as
a provincial, I enlisted under the name of Victor
Joceaux, (as by passing for a native I would escape being

drafted into the Foreign Le~gion) and was enrolled into
a corps of ekctsseurs4pied. Flandrin preferred the
cavalry service, and was sent to Saumur to join the
mounted eltasseur.9. I remained at the Vincennes
barracks to go~,through a series of drihings and gym-
nastic exercises preparatory to the~ earnest work of a
campaign. A few months at this and our regiment was
transferred to Clermont in Auvergne. here was a
large body of infantry and cavalry under the ~oinmand
of General de C-, an old soldier of the Empire.
Drilling again, and of the severest kind, for General do
C- was a rigid martinet, and. gave our wearied
limbs no rest. A queer-looking man was he, a little,
withered oetagenarian, tough as a hide-whip, and full
of freaks and whims of inflexible discipline. lie would
choose some cold, stormy night and at one o'clock in
the morning set drums beating and bugles blowing,
rousing the soldiers from their sweet slumbers, and at
their head, lead them through pelting rain and cutting
blast, on, miles on, over hill and dale, and all the obstruc-
tions he could find, until at dawn they returned, drenched
and dirty, tired and grumbling, to their quarters.
There was a dash of humor, too, in the grim old
General, and he was fond of a practical joke. The great
sq'aare at Clermont, where stands the statue of Desaix,
was the spot generally chosen for reviews, and one side
of this place was nearly all taken up by crockery lenders,
who made a wide-spread display of their wares. The
General noticed this, and one, day, on parade, ordered
our regiment to perform an evolution which) sent the
men at the pas gymnastique right athwart the plates,
dishes, pitchers, and bowls. Groat was the clatter, but

162           GALIflET VAN IfO.flK'.                                                                  163

162

163


164:           GARRET VAN IIOR~.

GARRET VAN hORN.         165

greater the jabber and ejaculations of the exa~pei'ated
merchants, and the merriment of the on-lookcrs.~ At
another time the General, passing along the high-street
just as a sch~o1 was being dismissed, stopped the
scholars~ and said to them: " Well, my children, would
you like to be soldiers ?" "0 yes," shouted many of
the boys, who recognized the General. "Well then,"
said he, pointing to a pastry-cook's opposite; "let me
see you storm that shop, en avant, to the assault !" At
it the troop of urchins ~vent, with sticks and with stones,
pelting the sbop, smashing the windowss, and cheering
lustily, as the General urged them on with a flourishing
cane. The pastry-cook was obliged to fly before the
shower of missiles, while the boys, crowding in, soon
pillaged the shop of all cakes find tarts much to the
amusement of General do C-. It is hardly neces-
sary to add, that he always amply ~ompensatedth~
sufferers for the damage occasioned by such freaks~~f
his.
A few months spent in Clermont and our regiment
marched southward and at Toulon embarked for Africa,
for about this time the Kabyles were giving the colo-
nists of Algeria serious trouble, and the French govern-
ment had deteriiilned to strike a signal blow at these
predatory and warlike Arab tribes. On disembarking,
there we, our corps was immediately sent into the inte-
rior o' the country towards Mascara and the Tlemeen,
which were chosen as the base of future operations
against the aggressive natives.
In spite of the rigor and restraint of discipline, I was
the more and more pleased with the profession I had so

164

165

suddenly adopted. It was spiced with novelty and
variety, but above that the active labor it entailed upon
me, the marching and exercise, gave a certain pleasura-
ble vigor to my constitution, hitherto somewhat impair-
ed by irregular habits and excesses. Much was due also
to my companions, for it was impossible to be otherwise
than contented among such fellows as the -rd Chas-
seurs. They were mostly Parisians, garnins de Paris,
some of them young men of education and animated by
the ambition of carving their way to fame, but withal
the most reckless, gay, turbulent, graceless, good-
hearted, daring set of mortals the sun ever shone on.
The camp rang with singing and jesting, with quips and
quizzing, with lazzis and chctnsonettes, from morning
till night, and their very mishaps were turned into sub-
j ects of merriment. It is this characteristic of the
French, their elasticity of spirit, which contributes
chiefly to make them such excellent soldiers. Not
defeats, drudgery, heat or cold, scanty food, tedious
marches, vigils or other hardships ever quench their
ardor or check their spring. Leagues and leagues on
would these gay-hearted troopers travel, through the
cutting blasts of the mountain passes or over the hot,
scorching, desert sands, with as springy a step as a wed-
ding guest; not with sullen determination, but with
cheerfulness, even whilst sucking cherrypits to allay the
pang of thirst, reminding one of their ancestors who
served in the Gallic legion, the Alauda, and who bore
on their helmets a lark, symbol of early vigilance and
liveliness. I-low the original stock strikes through and
asserts its predominance over the interfusion of foreign
breeds. Here were men with Greek, Latin, and German


166          GARRET VAN HORN.                                         GARRET VAN llOI~N.       107

blood in their veins, and yet what true sons of I3ren-
nus and Vercingetorix were they. Loquacious, hot-tem-
pered, quick to fight, but devoid of malice as Strabo
described the 0-auls; that noisy, 'warring, fearless race,
who returned and defied the thunders of Heaven with
flights of arrows.
The French soldier has often been represented as a
blood-thirsty, ferocious swashbuckler. Nothing can be
further from the truth. On the contrary, he fights
simply because he believes he is thereby acquiring glory
for himself and his country, and he is brave because
poltroonery is dishonorable. But he never fights for
the sheer love of shedding blood, Although an
manageable, turbulent fellow, his frolics generally take
a merry turn and seldom end in a shindy. Perhaps no
class, in or out of France, can furnish a larger propor-
don of noble, high-minded, honorable men, than can be
found among the intelligent and educated soldiers of
the French army, for, paradoxical as it may seem,
though the soldier is an excrescence on society and war
a terrible evil, yet nothii~g tends so to develop our
better impulses like the profession of arms, while corn-
m~rce, "the peaceful interchange of commodities," "the
band-maid of civilization," only educes the meaner and
selfish onesA~
During the time I was in Algeria, although constantly
in active service, II had but two opportunities to take
part in a conflict. One of these was but i~ skirmish
* A fact well understood by all acute analysts of character: wit-
ness Sterne and Thackeray. No nobler souls~we#e ever imagined than
Uncle Toby and Colonel Neweome.

V
L

which occurred as we were passing through a defile of
the Atlas to rejoin a portion of our division that had
been off on an excursion against the Beni-M6nad. Sud-
denly, we found ourselves in an ambuscade, and 'surZ
rounded by hostile Bedouins who poured a shower of
bullets upon us. On either side were irregular piles of
rocks from behind which the brown rascals were aiming
their long shooting tubes at us. One word from th~
officers, and the men scattered and sought the foe,
Nothing exasperates soldiers like an unseen attack, and
they sprang about with so much alacrity, that the
Bedouins chose the discreet part and escaped, after
leaving a few of their number bayoneted on the spot.
in this encounter we met with the severe loss, for their
murderous volley had killed ten of our men and wounded
several others. This little affair was but the prelude to
an important one, and by night-fall we had joined two
regiments of zouaves and one of tiraigeur3 indig~nes
with whom we were to storm Ai-Sebron, a stronghold
of the Beni-M6nasser on the Zakkar range. The celerity
and precision with which the army encamped for the
night was something remarkable. The . tents were
pitched, wood split, fires kindled, and supper preparing
in a trice, while the men, laying aside theb~ havresacks
and coats, were refreshing themselves after the fatigue
of the march in smoking their short clay pfpes. The
cooks of each gamelle or~ mess, stirred the soup and
hummed some joyous refrain, and the camp, in fact, bore
the aspect of a happy village. Suppe~' over, there were
clothes and shoes to mend, more pipe-smoking and
singing until the bugle sounded. Then the silence of
death reigned over all, lights were extinguished,~ and no

167

166

p


G~ARiU~iT VAN hORN.           109

GARRET VAN IJO1ThT

signs of life were visible, save in the distance, at inter-
vals, through ~a large circumference could be seen the
watch-fires burning, but no piquet or sentinel, for that
faithful guardian is stationed f~r in advance of the fire,
prone to earth, hid in the grass, with eye and ear
strained and finger on trigger, for the Kabyles are wily
as Iroquois and love to spring on an unguarded enemy.
In the morning after a breakfast of bread and coffee,
the tents are struck with the same rapidity that we
encamped, and we ai'e off on our way again rejoicing.
The lieutenant of our company, Leon Vivier, was a
handsome, well-knit, young fellow with clear, open gray
eyes, short chestnut hair and a fresh, frank face. lie was
a graduate of St. Cyr, and a young fellow of promise,
and had proved his gameness by a singular duel at
school. Having been grossly insulted, soon after his
entrance in college, by an older student, Leon fired up
and challenged him to fight. Thids were rife among the
collegians at that time, and the professors to prevent
them had deprived the pupils of all weapons. Leon
and his antagonist were unable to evade the restrictions
and settle their little affair, which afforded food for
taunts from the insulter, who said that Leon had fur-
nished information to the authorities in order to prevent
the meeting. Outraged at this aspersion, Leon chal-
lenged the other to fight him with the steel compasses of
their mathematical instruments, as they could obtain no
better weapons. His adversary consented, and the two
with their ~seconds retired to a secluded room. The
compasses when extended formed formidable, sharp-
pointed dirks of eighteen inches in length, and with
these the boys fought. The affair was conducted very

systematically and after a few minutes of parry anVd
lunge, L eon received a half-inch of thq compass-leg in
his arm, while his antagonist caught an ugly rent in his
check which greatly disfigured him, The young fellows
were both punished, but Leon established his reputation
as a lad not to be trifled with with impunity.
I allude particularly to this young officer as an inti-
macy sprang up between us. It had become known in
the regiment that I was an American, and as Leon's
grandfather had served as captain under Viomenil at
Yorktown ho naturally felt some interest in my country,
and would often question inc about it. lIe was a great
favorite with the men, and had already received the cross
of honor for gallantly saving the life of a wounded
drummer at the peril of his own.
Arrived at Ai-Sebron, we prepared to assault it.~
Each regiment furnished a certain number of volunteers
to form the van of the attacking body. I make no pre-
tensions to great bravery, but as I was publicly known
to be an American, I felt it incumbent on me to cast
aside all thoughts of my timid self; and prove for once
a worthy son of the glorious Confederation. There are
undoubtedly, in every man two natures, one which
prompts him when acting for his, owii clay-built selfish
body, and the other which shows itself when h6 acts for
what is dearer, such as his children or his country.
Under the latter stimulus, and that of a stiff dram of
the oantini~re's brandy, I asked permission to make one
of the forlorii hope or "lost children," as the French
term them. H~d I been among my countrymen I cci'-
tainly should not have insisted upon this distinction
but, l)laced as I was, I had no alternative, and did ~jUst
8

I

168

169


4

170

GARRET VAN HO1~N.

'V

GARRET VAN hORN,

171

as any American would do under similar circumstanceS.
The ,point to be stormed was situated on an almost in-
accessible crag, and there was a long acclivity to be
passed over before we could reach the enemy  who, as
the advanchig columns were clambering the height,
poured a sweeping fire at them from behind their ram-
parts. Now is the time, thought I; now is the time to
show these Frenchmen that no Yankee lags behind
when there's danger to be sought, and setting my jaw,
I grasped my rifle firmly and leaped eagerly in front.
Leon was beside mc; his handsome resolute face beam~
ing with enthusiasm, and bounding from rock to rock
like a chamois. I passed him, and was in fair way to be
the first at the foe, and who knows what prodigies of
valor I might have performed, ~vhen, unluckily, I was
bowled off my feet like a skittle by a huge piece of rock
rolled d9wn by those miscreants of Arabs. I fell into a
hollow, where I lay with tl~e stone directly over my
bruised leg, pinning me to the earth, and I too weak to
remove the crushing weight which caused me intense
pain. Several others were knocked about in the same
way, which, with the hot fire of the enemy, for a mo-
ment checked the vigor of the assault. Leon had a
piece of his scalp torn off by some projectile. It was
but a slight wound though, and an old grizzly Zonave
unwinding his turban, bound it tightly round the bleed-
ing head. Our lieutenant was about springing forward
again when he discovered me in my1 unfortunate and
inglorious plight. " Tiens!" said he, "here is the
American, nailed !" and rolling aside with some effort
the heavy mass, he placed me in an easy position.
"You see," said I, with a sickly smile, "there is no

danger of my running away." But Leon had no further
time to spare, for being newly decorated he was eager
to show himself worthy of his "cross." So away he
dashed with his sword drawn, and the end of the turban
fluttering in the wind like a pennon. There was a great
quantity of men now crowding up the steep, and the
powder-smoke obscured my view; but, for an instant I
distinguished him standing on the rampart, bareheaded,
and his face a mask of blood; for a second, his blade
quivered like a ray of light, and then, leaping among
the enemy I saw him no more. The Kabyles were,
after a stubborn resistance, completely routed; but our
men found after the fight a bloody corse, charred and
mangled by some explosion, which they 'could not
recognize. There was part of a miniature about it,
however, the face of a lady, which1 the Colonel pro-
nounced to be a likeness of Leon Vivier's mother. Poor
lady! had she seen this horrible, blackened mass of
flesh, that had once been her handsome son, her darling
child, reared in such tender, vigilant solicitude, would
his glory have consoled her? chair d Canon! Food
for powder!
Picked up with the other wounded I was placed in a
tumbril, where I lay groaning with pain increased by
every jolt of the vehicle to agony. The fear of losing a
leg added also to my torture, as these army-surgeons
have a frightful knack of sawing off limbs on the slight-
est pretence. To my great relief the surgeon decided
that amputation was not necessary; and, though my
injuries were very severe, that I would eventually have
as sound a leg as ever. Asthe division intended to ex-

- :1


172          GAL~RET VAN HORN.                                       GARRET VAN hORN.

173

tend its operations further into the region of the hostile
Berbers, the sick and disabled were sent back to Oran.
here I remained some four months in the hospital,
owing much 6f my complete recovery to the care of
those estimable women, the Sisters of Oharity.
Since my enlistment I had received but one letter from
home. I had not apprised my relatives of the step I
had taken, but they probably learnt of it through Mons,
Rivois' cousin, Dumesnil, for a missive came from Uncle
Garret to me couched in very severe terms, to the effect,
that when tired of military glory, and dissatisfied with
the vicious, worthless life I was leading, he would con-
sent to receive my apologies. This censure had the sole
effect of making me remain longer in the army than I
wished to, for in truth, having now worn this new fancy
threadbare, I would gladly have cast it aside had I had
any way to escape the imputation of eating humble-pie.
The loop-hole came at last in the shape of a~ letter from
Myndert, who sent me money to procure my discharge
from service, and urged me, with fraternal kindness and
earnestness, not to waste the best years of my life in
the perhaps worse than precarious life of a soldier;
bidding me also remember, that I would probably lose
all advantages for the future if I persisted in incurring
Uncle Garret's displeasure. As the future had not yet
become a subject of disquietude to me, or even one of
much reflexion, and as monetary considerations had as
little influence, all my brother's reasoning would have
proved entirely forceless had I not been in a frame of
mind eager to catch at any pretext for doing what I
otherwise dared not do, through thc silly fear of being

thought repentant and subdued. Therefore I mao~i
~ urn-
mously accepted my brother's advice as it chimed so
well with iiiy incniiation.~. The necessary measures
were soon taken, and I was again at liberty in dQ-
lightful Paris. Loth to quit this city of inmy j measures,
and finding ~oine fands at ALssrs. IJottin~uer &amp; Co.'s
at my disposal, I paid mxr last respects to Folly. One
in6nth longer of dissipation among my 01(1 companions,
and then I left for the seaport of Havro, and embarked
on board the packet-ship Zurich for my native land.


OAT~RET VAN UORN.         175

CHAPTER X.
HOME AGAIN.
J RETURNED to New York in the month of September,
184-, a man in stature and in strength, but yet
how boyish in thought and intention!
It is almost worth the whilq to expatriate oneself
for the sole pleasure of returning home, if one has kind
friends and relations to greet him, not such, however,
as Uncle Garret, who, when I hastened to his counting-
room immediately on my arrival, received me a~ coolly
as if he had seen me the day before, and merely said,
with a spice of sarcasm, "So-so, back again, eh?
Tired of soldiering, eh? Hope it's taught you system
and order, at least." Mortified at this reception I turned
aside without replying and shook hands with Mr. Krolz,
the German, who was truly gratified to see me. Then
Mr. Otter came forward with his slow, hypocritical
smile, and unmeaning salutation. I noticed he had

gained his point for he was now chief clerk, Mr. Hogg
having been superseded. I inquired, what had become
of the old man?
"Don't know," said Otter. "lie was useless here.
We had to discharge him-too old-made too many
mistakes-memory gone and could hardly see."
Poor worn out book-keeper! Forty years' constant
staring at white paper and inillio~is of brain-straining
calculations have done their work. What are you fit
for now? Even a superannuated horse should not be
turned out to die.
Dear Aunt Jane's warm welcome made ample amends
for her husband's frigid one. She hung over m and cried
like a mother over her long lost son. Poor woman, she
was thin and pale now, and time.seemed deali~ig harshly
with her. "Have you been sick, Aunt Jane ?" inquired.
"No-no-but Thu so glad to see you, Garry. Dear-.
dear, Ii ow you have altered! and you've got so black
and you look so like a Frenchman with that beard and
with that hat on, too. Really, I should never have
known you."
Of course her budget of news was almost inexhausti-
ble, and I found she had lost none of her old volubility.
"No doubt," she continued, "you're very anxious to
hear about Laura. Poor Laura! Mi'. Ludlow; I suppose
you know, is dead. No! Well it is so. Poor man, he
made away with himself very suddenly and now Laura
your old flame is a heiress. I don't know how many
thousand dollars she's worth, I'm such a poor hand at
recollecting figures, but Mr. Van Horn, I think he said,
if I ain't mistaken, that it was a very large fortune.
There's lots after her, you may be sure. She's got as

175


GARRET VAN HORN.                                        GARRET YAN flORa,        17'T

ma-ny beaux as you can shake a stick at, but your chaiice
is the best. She thinks a good deal of you, Garry, and
often mentions your name. Last Christmas-day, I think
it was, when she was here she saw Dennis have on that
blue satin scarf of yours that you gave him before you
left, and she recollected it directly, and says she,
'Well,' says she, 'if that aint Garry's scarf that he felt
so proud of;'-which only goes to show how her mind's
running on you and how well the stuff wears, and I
think with that beard of yours, and you're manly look-
ing now, too, that you nmy succeed-and what do you
think! you recollect Mrs. Robinson?. Widow Robinson
that was ?-well she's now NVidow Smith, only four
months ago lie died, and there's money there too, so I
tell Dr. Rose he and the widow had better make a
match at last, and talking of matches d~d you know
Nyndert was in love? Yes, LAced he is! to M~s
Home, a sweet nice girl, but I'm afraid he won't suit
her, he's too close and not particular enough about his
dress and hair. 11cr father's a Scotebman too, or a-
Spaniard is itt? Let me see-Spaniards are dark and lean,
aint they? No, it can't be for he's fat and red-fhced.
She's an acquaintance of Laura's, they wont to Sooner
Ladronni's singing-school together, and so she wanted to
see a ship-launch and Laura took her to Nyndert's Ship-
yard and that's the way it all came about. Myndert
goes there quite often and I shouldn't wonder if it was a
~e, but I don't know," etc. etc.
Banishing any lingering feeling of acrimony I went to
see Myndert. As he had stated in his letters he was now
a master ship~wrht. His first xvGrk, a pilot boat which

he had built on the model of the little "Gallinipper,"
proved so swift and staunch a sea-craft as to acquire for
him a very favorable reputation as a builder. H~ next
constructed the hull of a hudson river steamboat; and
afterwards a ship for the Black Ball line of Liverpool
packets, both of which so far surpassed their owners'
expectations as to procure him several important con-
tracts. He had achieved much success in reintroducing
with modifications a plan of construction gone out of
favor with naval architects, i. e. that of "hollow lines,"
which replaced the heavy bulging bows, once considered
so essential to th~ streno'th of a vessel, by neat con-
cave ones, therel~'y increasing a vessel's speed and
beauty without in the least impairing her force of resist-
ance. Myndert was not one to follow in beaten l)aths.
Success never satisfied him, but only spurred him on to
improvement.
his yard was at Corlear's Hook, amidst those foun-
dries, boiler-shops, spar-yards, and other hives of human
industry that cluster on the elbow of the East hive:',
opposite to N\Tallabout and the Naval arsenal.
It was a fine sunny day when I went there, and the
scene of ceaseless industry and music of labom filled me
with exhilaration. Myndert was not in his office and a
carpenter said, without stopping from work, that I
*       should find him somewhere about th~ yard.
*          On the stocks was a large Indiaman, not entirely corn-
pleted but with her planking on. There lay her colossal
hull, and high above, her stem, smooth and sharp as a
bird's~ beak, sprang out in a graceful curve, tipped, sin-
gularly enough, with an old-fashioned besom. Surely
next to woman and the horse, a ship is the most attrac-
8':'.

177


178         GARRET VAN HORN.                                        GARRET VAN HORN.         179

tive thing in the world to manly eyes. It is a majestic
combination of strength, symmetry, and utility; a
unison of a~ll that pleases and all that we wonder at in a
blade of wheat and in a IDoric column.
And Myndert was the magician who conjured that
grand and splendid shape into reality; and his the
master-mind that moved these hands to creation. For
a moment a pang of envy shot through me ,-of pardon-
able envy, for while the elder born of my father's house,
the dull son, was reaping the meed of his perseverance,
labor, and study; I, the hope of the family, was-
naught!
high up on the scaffolding near the stern of the ship
was a man in a black coat, whom I recognised at once
as Myndert. He was patting the ship as if he loved it,
scanning each timber with a vigilant eye, and watching
the progress of the work as if it were to be his master-
piece-his favorite child. After some words with one
of the workmen, he. took a maul and swung it himself,
driving in the locust tree-nai1s with a vigor that be-
tokened a labor of love. Happy fellow! for happy in-
deed is he who can combine not only profit, but plea-
sure, with the toil that man is doomed to nnder~o.
Happening to look down he espied me, and instantly
descended and advanced to meet me with the light of
fraternal love beaming in his eyes. I am sure he wished
as heartily as I did to break the bounds of our silly, un-
natural conventionahism, and to clasp each other warmly
as brother meeting brother would in any country in the
world but England and our own.
We retired to his office and there made that close
scrutiny of each other's appearance consequent upon

long separation. I was brown and fleshy. Myndert
was tall and broad-shouldered, his former long, loose-
jointed frame having expanded into solid squareness
covered with firm, thick muscles. He much resembled
our father. lie had the same clear, true, steady gaze,
and when it met mine, my heart warmed towards him,
and proud of my brother, I rejoiced in his talent and
success.
And now came a long conversatio~ between us.
Mine was a checkered story, and Myndert had so many
questions to ask, the most of them rather puzzling, as
his curiosity lay chiefly in different matters from those
that had engaged the attention of my epicurean self.
"What a beautiful ship you are building, Myndert,"
I remarked.
"Yes," replied he; "Ithink so. She's somewhat of
an innovation on established models. Her lines ar~
peculiar. I am building her for Uncle Garry. It was
with great difficulty I could get him to accept my plans.
Old Captain Bunker, who is to command her, and
owns a sixteenth or some such share, I believe, objected
to my ideas most obstinately. Of course Uncle Garry
lays great weight on the Captain's opinion, and it was
only by certain conditional concessions in the price and
by guarantee, that they allowed me to have my own
way about it. captain Bunker comes here every morn-
ing, shakes his head, and swears she'll never stand a
typhoon, but go right down plumb as a deep-sea lead.
I laugh and tell him, that if he will only stow her cargo
as it should be, I will spar her so that he will be safer
on board of her in the wildest hurricane than he would
be in the staunchest, old. kettle-bottom galliot out of

0


180          GARRET VAN HOflNO                                           CM~RET VAN HORN.          18i1.

Amsterdam. Captain says nothing, bra looks as if
he might be repeating to himself 'Vouno' folks think
old folks fools, but old folks know young ones to be
so.' I've great faith in her, and shall be very much
disappointed if she don't rove my words good. I'm
partial, to be sure; but she seems to my eye to be as
shapely and as well poised as a salmon."
"That's a queer Ilgure.kead she's got. What is it, a
broom ?"
"Yes, a broom. She's to be christened the Van
Tromp, you see, in honor of the old Dutch admiral,
It's my fancy. Uncle Garry wanted to name her the
'Integrity,' or the 'Punctuality,' or some such stupid
name; but I persuaded him to let me have my own
way about it by promising to furnish her with a set of
colors and signals at my own expense."
"That induced him, no doubt. I suppose he drove a
pretty close bargain with you, didn't he ?"
"Well-no-not exactly. He has sense enough to
know, that if you xvant a good article you n4ist pay a
fair price for it. Uncle Garry is not the close illiberal
man you take him to be, more's the pity, for your sake,
Young Depeyster is out of the firm. Ab, yes! you
know that, for it happened before you left. Well, he's
going to the dogs now fast enough, what with drink and
other things. Pity you didn't stick to Uncle Garry's
shop; you might have been a partner there by this
time, as that cunning little Otter is to be shortly, I
understand."
"By the by, Myndert, Aunt Jane told. me something
about your efforts to enter into a partnership,-~-a life
one-how about that ?"
4'

Myndert blushed like bashful fifteen, and said,
"how?" as if he did not understand.
"Ah-ah! plead guilty, eli? The name IA, I believe,
Miss-Miss Home; is that it ?"
"Oh-ah !-Miss Home. She's a very pleasant young
lady. I must introduce you. What do you intend I~o
do now, Garry ?"
"I intend to call on Dr. Rose this evening; further, I
' cannot say."
I did call on Dr. Rose, who appeared much pleased to
see me. lIe must have prospered during my absence
for he now occupied elegant apartments fronting on St.
John's Park, and his shirt was studded with diamonds
big as marrowfat peas. I thanked him for his kindness
in sending me the one hundred dollars, and began an
elaborate apology for not having repaid it. "My dear
Garry, don't mention it-don't mention it. Reep it as
long as you like-I don't need it. It's safe enough I
know. You can pay me back out of your abundance
when the harvest is garn~red-ha !-ha! But I'm so
delighted to see you back. You've got a story as long
as your arm to tell me, I don't doubt. I tell you what,
Van, we must have a quiet little dinner of the old sort to
talk over matters and celebrate this return. Just you and
I and ~yndei't. Say four o'clock to-morrow, if you're
not otherwise- engaged, at Coquelicot's. Tell Myndert
for n-ic, or better still I'll write him a note in the mor-
ning. Remember four to-morrow. That will give us
time, if we like, to go and hear that new singer Tedesco
sino' La Cola8sa."
0
The Doctor accidentally met Monsieur Rivois and
thinking he would a4d to our amusement invited him to


GARRET VAN EQR~            183

182         GARRET VAN HORN.

the little dinner party. Monsieur endeavored, politely
to refuse. "Why not? Why will you not come, you
have not lost your taste for a good bottle of wine ?"
"For to tell you frankly, sir, Ii am not in a position
presently to respond at the politenesses that you make
to me," said Mons. Rivois slightly reddening. "Thus
you will conceive that the delicateness obliges me to
refuse that which I would have in another case ninch
of pleasure in accepting."
"Come-come--without ceremony, my dear Sir, sans
fapon. You must go. Your old pupils will be there,
and Garry will be oveijoyed to see you. Friendship
obliges, in this case."
"Since it is thus, I accept. To-morrow then at four,
you say? Good, I will be there."
At the time appointed we assembled in a private room
of that famous restaurant Coquelicot, and sat down to a
comfortable little ~repast that would not have suffered in
comparison with a spread at the Caf~ Anglais. Old
Mons. Rivois was less springy than of yore, and had a
red tinge on his nose; his frock-coat, the same he had
worn for years, was brushed threadbare and white at the
seams. Poor man! he had lost nearly all employment.
He was unfit now for school-teaching, not stern enough
for boys and not fine enough for young ladies. So
Annette was obliged to ply the needle faster and work
earlier and later, while her father, in awaiting scholars ,
resorted to the cafes and imbibed hope from the bluest
and most ordinary of clarets. We had a long conversa-
tion together in ~?French about Paris, the army, ithe
Dumesnil family, etc. etc. And how had I liked Paris?
~with a triumphant smile). And had I been to the

Vari~t6s? What actors were in vogue now? This
led to a discussion on that truly Parisian topic, the
theatres. I told him all about Pr6d6ric Lemaitre,
Levassor, Bouff6, Arnal, Virginie Dejazet, Rose Cheri,
and Rachel; but the old man pooli-poohed these with
reminiscences of Potier, Brunet, Talma, and M'lle
Mars. "Those were actors, sctpristi! as one sees no
more. Fill tby glass," and the old man was young
again for an hour or two, sang-

"The wicked are all water drinkers,
The Deluge proves that true enough,"

and other convivial songs in a cracked and husky voice.
The wine soon flushed him, as it did the others, for the
Doctor was unsparing in his attention~ to his guests
and Plied them with the choicest Burgundy and Cham-
pagne. Even grave Myndert showed th6 subtle effects
of grape-juice and laughed immoderately at Doctor
Rose's flashing wit. Monsieur Rivois n his enthusiasm
called me his compatriot, his brave of the braves, and
swore roundly that I had acquired the allurements of an
old "jackal." "But after all, see you, though there has
been made some pretty feats-of-arms in Alger, such as
the taking of Constantine and the battle of Isly, it i~
nothing to what we old soldiers of the Empire were
accustomed to. It was altogether. another thing then."
As he punctuated his conversation with many brimmers
he had by this time warmed himself into a fine phrensy
of enthusiasm, and rang out the glories of Jena, Wagrain
and Friedland, and then, by a natural transition, began
to rail at the English. "1~snez I" cried he, with a
thump on the table that made the glasses dance. "I

F

183

182


GARRET VAN HOTUTS         185

184          GARRET VA~ HOR~*

have my seventy years.-well-I would die happy if I
could again raise the sabre against those rascals of Eng-
lish who have been capable of the poltroonery atrocious
of imprisoning the Emperor."
"It is the greatest compliment," said Myi~dert, '~ that
was ever paid to him or any other mane It showed how
he was feared."
"Compliment !" exclaimed NI. Rivois with another
thump. "You call that a compliment? It is pretty the
compliment! Take a poor devil of an emperor who
himself renders and plant him 6n a rock in the middle
of the sea, la! him putting, so to say, in a cage like a
1)east f~r~cious with '~ o~uardian to tease him! Is that
Lb
worthy of a grand nation? Come-tell me is that
well? is that loy~il? Is that the way to treat the pri-
soners, hem? Tell inc that? See you, if it were not for
that beggar of a burgher, that poltrooii of a Phillipe, there
are now in France, not one, but two hundred thousand
men, young and old, who would take the arms to-morrow
and swim the 3fan~he to sweep those traitors of English
as Brune swept them from the Low Countries."
"What's the reason," inquired the Doctor with a
wink at me, "that your countrymen and the English
hate each other so
"Speaking frankly, here is the reason. We are
rivals; is it not? And w~ell, we are too nearly equal.
I don't say that the advantage is not of our side; but,
let us pass that-what is evident is, that being all the
two of such great peoples, one cannot with reason miS-
prise the other; here is all. If one could misprise the
other, ab! in~ that case all would march well and in
p~a~C~ but as it is impossible in the state of things, that

we should be other than rivals, we are in con;;~cjuence
enemies. It must be admitted that the soldier EuxiibiI
is solid and brave, a2d it 15 1mpO5~iblC to iuis;~ri~e o~

such men."
"Very true," said the Doctor coolly igniting the
veteran's indignation. "They proved that by beating
you at Waterloo."
"Vatterlow-Vatterlow! Q~&amp;e disable, are you chant-
ing me about your Vatterlow! Let me be with your
Vatterloxv, Am I never to hear the end of your sacred
Vatterlow !" Rivois bristled, his cycs struck fire, arid
his very hair stood exasperated. "Non~ lJfon.sieur!
We beateci the Anglishe at Vatterlow. It is true that
Blulkair fell on us with a force so much superior that
we were obliged to-to"
"To retreat," said the Doctor, supplying the ob-
noxious word, "But how about the charge of the
Guards, oh? 'Up boys and at 'em,' and all that, you
know ?" continued he, with provoking calmness.
"To the d~.cd1e wis your up bodies an ratteni! NVhat
nonsense is that ?" ci'ied Rivois, in a semi-frantic state,
and he stuttered away to prove conclusively that the
French had won the battle of Waterloo, and that if
Grouchy had done this, and Blucher had not done that,
and if the French army had not been composed chiefly
of recruits, and if the others had only been but twice as
numerous, and if something else had happened, or had
not happened, why, sir-why, the matter would not
only have terminated differently; but the world, Mon-
sicur, the world, would be now three centuries ahead!
lIe accompanied this argument with many vigorous
thumps on the table, and poured much wine over his


186           GAIUU~V VAN II~T.                                            GAI~RErD VAN hORN.           187

clothes, and more adown hi~ gullet, for ho didn't get
such drink every day. And still the merciles~ Doctor
egged him on, while I was convulsed with vinaceous
mirth. Myndert, true to his Dutch blood, had so per-
sistently indulged in some spirits to settle the claret as
to have reached the solemn stage of inebriety, and sat
smoking with oxvl-like gravity, oblivious of surrounding
scenes. Presently Monsieur Rivois having exhausted
himself and his fourth bottle, succumbed to the com-
bined influence of Bacchus and Bellona, and slid away
under the mahogany to take a quiet nap. The Doctor,
who seemed alcohol-proof said to me, "Wait a little
we'll have some fun with the old Frenchman," and
charring a cork he decorated the prostrate Frank with
a pair ~ fierce, voluted mustachios; then proper4 him
up in a corner, clapped on his head a cocked hat made
of a folded newspaper, and tying two napkins round
his waist for a sash, stuck therein a knife and a fork.
"There's a bold trencherman! A valiant leg-o'-mutton
knight !" cried the Doctor, whilst I, screaming with
laughter, app~audecI the joke so frantically with a
decanter, that I shivo~ed it and broke a leaf of Mr.
Coquelicot's table.
Myndert was far too much befogged to notice any-
thing; and after the Doctor and I had sufficiently
enjoyed the ludicrous spectacle which the tipsy old
fellow afforded, we sent for a hackney coach and tum-
bled him into it. Arrived at Rivois' house in Hudson
street, I remained in the coach while the Doctor
lugged the helpless Frenchman up his door-steps, laid
him down and rang the bell. I looked back as we
were driving around the street corner, and saw the

daughter Annette trying to raise her drunken father,
and take him into the house,
"If I hadn't been so dmmk I wouldn't have permitted
it," said Myndert, bluntly, th6 next day, as I was laughing
over our fun of the previous evening. "It was a poor
joke. lie's an old man, old enough to be your grand-
father. The Doctor ought certainly to apologise. When,
wine's in wit's out, sure enough."
This rebuke was also meant in a certain degree for
myself; but I pretended not to take it, having come to
borrow a little money.
"I don't like that Doctor much, Garry."
" And why not ?"
"Because there's no earnestness in him. I'm preju-
diced against such folks. He is clever and generous I
will admit; but he has a malicious way with him that I
can't well describe b~it that has set me against him,
lately."
"The Doctor has his faults to be s-nrc; but he's been
a good friend to me, an&amp;an amusing one," said I, "and
that's all I care about."
"Of course," said Myndert; "I don't dispute that.
It's a mere matter of taste."
My brother seemed in rather an ill-humor that morn-
ing; so not thinking it a favorable moment to ask for
the little loan I needed, I ceased the conversation, and
left him,
And this was the sequel to the little dinner party.
Monsieur Rivois sought the Doctor, and met him talk-
ing to a friend on the Astor House steps. Approach-
ing the Doctor with a jaunty air, he said, "Ah,


188         GARRET VAN HORN.                                     C~A1~RET VAN HORN.       189

fj~rcer! you have played m~ a pretty trick, is it not?
row-at my turn," and he gave him a smart buffet on
the side of his face.
The Doctor quelled fo~ an instant, but recovering
himself, said with a very pale face: "It is fortunate,
sir, that your gray hairs and maimed condition protect
you, otherwise I should take the pleasure of horse-
whipping you soundly."
"It must not that Monsieur permits any trifles to
prevent any pleasures that Monsieur would like to
take~ I am at his service, and hope to have some of
his news soon." And with a military salute to the by-
standers the old soldier departed.
Monsieur Rose, however, did not deem it necessary
to respond to Monsieur Rivois' invitation. "Look at
it, Van, what honor could I get by shooting the impu~
dent old pauper ?" said he. "Besides, it isn't a fair
thing. I'm no shot; couldn't hit a barn-door at five
paces; and if it came to swords, I know even less of
them; and that cut-throat could assassinate me at his
ease. But for all that, I wouldn't mind calling him out
were it not that I belong, as you probably know, to a
- Qi~aker family, and you can imagine how completely
blasted my reputation would be among my relations ;~
how completely they would shun me, did I in any way
engage in a duel; and worse yet, between you and me, my
rich uncle in Philadelphia, old Obadiah Day, from whom
I expect something handsome, would discard me com-
pletely, cut me off with abhorrence-sure as you exist !"
I told some friends afterwards of the Doctor's reasons
for not fighting duels, and about his Quaker principles,
etc., and we had much fun over it for a long time.

1Vfonsi~ur Rivois not receiving thee expected cartel
grew indignant. "The poltroon! must I challenge him
myself?" and he sent a polite note stating that not
hearing from Dr. Rose though he had patiently waited a
long time, he supposed that a natural diffidence pre~
vented him (the Dr.) from taking the initiative, but now
he confidently expected from his knowledge of Monsieur
the Doctor's accommodating spirit that he would gladly
meet him, etc. etc. As this missive met with no answer,
the irate Freiichman again sought the Doctor and pro-
ceeded to cane him in the street. Rose wrenched away
from the old man's grasp and ran o11 Rivois chased
him a square or two, when- a policeman interfered, and.
as Rivois turned his wrath on the guardian of the peace
and attempted to flagellate him also, he was arrested and
conveyed to the Tombs, 'in whose umbrageous solitudes
he might have made an unpleasantly long sojourn but
for the intervention of his old pupil Myndert.


4

LAURA LUDLOW.
'6JTis full six weeks, six weeks! Garret Van Horn,
I since you returned and you haven't been to see
Laura yet. What will she think of it? Now why
don't you go to Marshall's Neck ?" said Aunt Jane.
"True, aunt, and the blackfish must bite now; I can
have some capi1~al sport off Finch's Island reef."
"What, fishing! Do you think of fishing? 0, Garry,
don't let this opportunity slip away. Here's a nice girl
and lots of money, all to be had for the asking. And I
should so like to see you settle down and be steady
now; you've roamed about so much."
"Well, well, we'll see about that, Aunt Jane. Any-
way I must call on Laura, I suppose," replied I, rathei'
flattered with the idea that an heiress was at my dis~
posal.
I went to Marshall's Neck to see Laura~ Not that

6

G.ARRErV VAN HOnN.             191

j

there remained a shred of my boyish passion; not that
J ~Vas influenced, 'in the least, thereto by my aunt's
advice, but simply in curiosity to see how a change of
position and advancing summers had altered the friend
and sweetheart of my youthful days.
Laura's father was dead but eighteen months, having
perished in a singular and lamentable way. Once a dry-
goods jobber he had retired with a large fortune to ~
country-seat in Connecticut. Here surrounded by all
the comforts and luxuries that wealth could bestow, it
might be supposed that he passed a halcyon existence.
Would not you or I, if we had txx~enty thousand a year
income, honorably earned, a handsome mansion, horses,
pictures, books, and the capacity to enjoy them? But
Mr. Ludlow was not happy. Some malignant sorcerer
had cast baneful spells over the man. All joy was ban-
ished from his heart, and he became moody, dejected,
and sad. And it was, of all things, the dread of poverty
that unceasingly tormented this rich man. He was
beset continually by visionary disasters that assuihed
protean shapes. At all hours and in every place did
some malicious imp whisper in his ear that all his goods
and gold would some moment vanish like a dream, and
leave him to sharp want and hunger! that let him feast
as he would, and array himself in fine garments, yet
surely, surely, would he die a tattered pauper; neglected,
starving, and unknown I Such black thoughts embittered
every enjoyment, and but ashes and aloes did all the
delights of this world prove to him. He bent his will to
shake the horrid phantasm off, but his morbid reason
was too feeble to exert any effectual resistance. His
nerVous system became so shattered that a fldl in the

2


192              m~m~ VAN iior~m
stock market or a slight depreciation Li the value of real
estate sufficed to throw him into a state of mental agi-
tation and distress pitiable to see. Eventually the fail-
nrc of a debtor was the cause of his death. The loss
was a small one, but he saw in it the commencement of
his predestined doom-the first crumbling of his for-
tune-now the fhtal moment was approaching, and
ruin and beggary were soon to stare him in the face!
Crazed by such torturing thoughts he deliberately shot
himself; a victim to that worst of all maladies, a mind
diseased.
La-nra continued to reside at the family mansion
together with some poor relations of her father's,
who took charge of the household and managed the
firm.
I found the young ladygrown tall and about as stately
as a bean-stake. Her ~axen ringlets-they were golden
once-were longer and more numerous; her eyes-once
heavenly and cerulean-expressionless; and her coin-
plexion-once alabaster----now pallid and wan; and she
bore a remarkable resemblance, which I had never
before noticed, to her aunt Mrs. Van Horn.
She had still the same taste for low-necked dresses
and short sleeves, which afforded now but a. display of
meagre charms, and though attired in the deepest
mourning she wore on her long, bare arms, two gold
bracelets as heavy as handcuffs.
With an air of melancholy resignation, something
like the expression of a lithographed St. Catherine, and
a feeble sigh, she received my greeting at our first in-
terview and said; "Many years have rolled away and
C

GAIUU~T VA~ i1ol~

193

many changes have occurred since last we met, Garry-
Mr. Van Horn, I mean."
"Yes," answered I, thinking she alluded to the loss of
her Lather.
"It has doubtless been the same with you that advan-
cing years serve but to reveal the hollowness of the
world, and efface all the bright anticipations of the
future which we cherished in earlier days. All I seek
at present, and all I long for, is an asylum, secluded from
the heartlessness and selfishness of the inhabitants of
this globe, where I can find sweet repose and peaceful
meditations."
During this speech she rolled her eyes upward and
crossed her hands before her in a very devout way.
Thinking that perhaps she was still suffering from her
afflicting Loss, I expressed some phrases of consolation.
Then sh~ continued in the same mournful strain: "In
childhood's frivolous, hours, Mr. Van Horn, we cherished
worldly attachments and 1 hope that you are honorable
enough not to presume upon, or to attach the slightest
importance-that is to say-it's a delicate subject to
mention,-but I am sure that you will at once see the
justice, and your sense of honor will at once, I trust,
impel you to release me instantly and unconditionally
from any promise or any encouragement I have ever
been foolish enough to give in days that are past."
Having no recollecti6~h of any promises given by her
my acquittauce was readily granted.
"We were so young and foolish you know, Garry,~-
I mean Mr. Van Horn."
"Very true, and now we are old and foolish," said I
cheerfully.
9

11

I


194

GARRET VAN IIO1~N.

"What a vast difference a few yeitrs make in our
travels in this vale of tears,. don't it, Mr. Van Horn ?"
"But don't you find it damp walking for thin shoes in
this vale ?" inquired J, with as much wit ~s I could
muster, for I was getting amused. But Laura had no
relish for jokes and never understood them.
"As I have the highest opinion of your discretion, and
~s I believe you to bc one of those who redeem the
unfeeling population of this sphere, and possess a sympa-
thizing nature, I don't mind being candid with you, but
pray, don't mention it to any one I beseech you."
"Not for the world, what is it ?"
"Well then, to speak plainly and without reserve, I
will confide in ~ou that I have resolved to forsake all
frivolity and retire from the vanities of this world."
"Retire!" said I surprised; "where to ?"
"To the only asylum left to one weary of this world
and its hollow deceptions."
"What asylum, pray, the Orphans' ?"
"Can you not divine? What other shield or solace
have I left to me but the veil ?"
"The veil! You don't mean to say that you seri-
ously intend to go into a convent ?"
"Question me no further, Garret, I have already said
perhaps more than I should. There was a time,-but
never mind-.-.the die is cast-pray, don't, don't question
me any more, my line of duty is plainly traced and I
have no desire to swerve from it, nor can I be shaken in
the slightest degree from my firm and deliberate w~
pose. All your arguments therefore are utterly futile.
You may save yourself further trouble, I ~ba11 take no
heed of what you say."

GAI~RET VAN UO1~N.

195

Just then we were interrupted by Mrs. Hobby,
Laura's paternal aunt, who came into the room and
engaged me in conversation about Mrs. Van Horn.
When Laura had left us alone together, Mrs. hobby
gave me some particulars about her niece's whim. "She
tells me," said that worthy dame, "that she's too fragyle
to bear the contact of this rude world and that her only
hope's a cloistral cell. I tell her my opinion is she'd get
along well enough if she'd only-ia little more flesh on her
bones, for shQ don't eat a most nothing. IDear me, I'm
so worried about her, I'm so afraid of her getting like
her pool father was that I've a strong notion of speaking
to the doctor."
I ~Iissipatcd the old lady's fears as well as I could, and
suggested that a change of air and scene would likely
enough drive away all of Laura's gloominess. "Let her
spend next winter in town, Mrs. Hobby, I think you will
find that an effectual remedy."
Mrs. Hobby thanked me for my advice, and said s e
would try and induce Laura to follow it.
I stayed over night and the next day for the purpo e
of fishing with Elkanah, Mrs. Hobby's son, who knew
the best fishing grounds.
"Try and make Laura go with you, Mr. V~n Horn,"
said Mrs. hobby; "I shouldn't wonder if it did her a
great deal of good to go out on the water and enjoy
herself a little."
Of course I did not Ihucy that proposal, what fisher-
man would? Nevertheless I said, "By all means-she
must go," and, after a little entreaty Laura consented to
accompany us. So I caught no fish, for Laura wanted
so much attention th.at between baiting her hooks, get-

I
I
I
'ii
~xI

1*


196

GARRET VAN hORN.

ting her line out of tangle, doing this and doing that, I
hadn't a moment to myself; but Elkanah, who was a
sharp Yankee youth, kept himself aloof at the bow of
the boat and captured a fine string of heavy blackfish
just to mortify me. However, I had my revenge on
Laura, for she got terribly sun-burnt in spite of her pre-
cautions, and did not come down to the breakfast table
the next morning in consequence. I asked Mrs. Hobby
if her niece were unwell?
"0, no, not exactly unwell, but her face got so scorch-
ed from the sun yesterday, that she's quite in a pet about
it this morning."
"And she'll lay it all to you, Mr. Van Horn," said
Elkanah, "for coaxing her to go out on the water, and
she'll not forgive you in a hurry, for she's 'been getting
up that pale white face for the nunnery by fasting, read-
ing nights, vinegar, and cold potatoes for I don't know
long."
Under those circumstances I thought it best to return
to New York, the ill-humor of the monastic Laura
offering no inducement to prolong my stay beneath her
roof.
When I arrived home, Aunt Jane, among a multitude
of questions about the Connecticut folks, Mrs. Hobby,
Elkanah, and Laura, asked m~ if the last-mentioned one
had spoken to me about her intention of retiring to a
convent. "It all comes," said Aunt Jane with indigna-
tion, "of a hairy artist. He was some sort of a man, a
Seener somebody or other, a Frenchman, I believe ho
was or an Italian, or a foreigner of some sort, I don't
know which, anyway Laura took quite a shine to him,
but as she couldn't marry 'him for he was a Roman

GARRET VAN' flOR~.

197

Catholic with a wig, and hair on his upper lip, and
besides that had a wife in this country with five
children, and no knowing whether he hadn't another in
his own with ten children, why Laura, she took it into
her head that the men are all deceivers, and I wish you
would do your best to prevent her from doing such a
nonsensical, awful thing, before it's too late, for I dare
say those priests would be glad enough to lock her up
and. steal away all her property2'

p
I
I:


CllAPTI~R XII,
U~OL~ GAr~RET'S HOUs~rIoLD GODS.
A 3IO~GST other change~ that had occurred during my
11 absence was the surprising o~ie of my sfaid, old-
4
school uncle's transferring his domicile from plain, unpre-
tentious, secluded Madison street, to the aristocratic and
fashionable neighborhood of University Place. This
was a change long desired and long entreated for in
vain by his wife, and only brought about in consequence
of the East Dutch Church's having' been removed from
the lower to the upper part of the city. how this latter
event was effected would take a volume to explain, and
I have not the space to narrate the diplomacy, the
intrigues, the strategy, the pluck, the Machiavelism
displayed by the chm'ch-memlers in their contest for and
against the i'emoval. The strife was a long and a des-
per~te one, and evolved much anger, ill-feeling', unchari-
tableness, and some back-biting. One faction, the pro-

K

GAILRET VAN hORN.

aggressive~ were headed by the rich and fashionable Mrs.
Queezy (who always came to worship in her carriage),
and the other party, the conservatives, were under the
leadership of Un&amp;~e Garret. The progressives argued
that the congregation was diminishing in number s and.
needed transplanting to flourish anew, they asked, there-
fore, that the old edifice be sold and a finer one erect-
ed in a more favorable locality. Uncle Garret and
his party insisted that the church should remain where
it was, and said that their opponents' plea was a shallow
one. Uncle Garret fought every inch like a true soldier,
but nnfortuuately, the conservatives were in the minority,
and as Mrs. Van Horn se~retiy favored the enemy, while
the Rev. Dr. Westervelt leaned towards the progres-
sives, and Mrs. Qucezy announced her readiness to con-
tribute a large sum from her own purse to purchase the
new site; Uncle Garret and the coiiservatives were van-
quished, and the time-honored East Dutch temple ~of
worship was moved from its old grave-yard and the
bones and ashes of by-gone commumeants and placed
amidst the luxurious mansions of the Fifth Avenue. So
Uncle Gariiet was perforce obliged to follow, and bought
a dwelling in University Place at a great bargain of a
builder whose necessities impelled him to a sacrifice.
They had but just moved into this new house when I
returned from Europe, and Aunt Jane was busily en-
gaged in the furnishing and decorating of it, in which
task she ~vas efficiently guided by the superior taste of
Dr. Rose. For all his aid she found her undertaking
difficult and tedious, for, as she graphically observed to
me, i~ was like drawing teeth to get money from Mr.
Van Horn, "fbr lace-curtains, carpets, and. 5~~h-like."

199

Ij
V
~ hf
1i~
iI~
N
ii;


200          GARRET VAN flORa.                                       GARRET VAN HORN.         201

Mrs. Va~i Horn would begin: "There is one thing we
certainly ought to have, my dear."
"Another 1" exclaimed Mr. Van Horn,
"Now, don't begin, dear. It's only an article,"
"Judging by the bills I receive daily from uphol..
sterers and furniture men, I should think you had
purchased every thing necessary and much that is un-
necessary, and yet there is one thing more !"
"My dear, it is only a teapot."
~ "A teapot! well and what has become of our old tea.
pot ?"
"A silver one, my love."
"Why silver? why will not Pritannia metal answer?
We have drunk tea. now for twenty years out of 'china
and pewter and why change? Will it taste any
better ?"
"I have long set my heart, dear, upon a silver tea-
pot, and now you must gratify me for once, How
ridiculous it would appear for people in our circumstan
ces and living in the style we do, to set a shabby pewter
tea-pot on our table before company."
"There it is! there's the same nonsensical argument
over again. I can tell you, Mrs. Van Iiori~, that if you
keep on at this rate the teapot will be all in fact that
you will have to set on the table before company. At
first, it was ridiculous for people in our circumstances
to live in Madison street and in such a shabby house and
now that you have got this one, it is ridiculous to live
in such a fine new house with old furniture, and so I've
bought new furniture at a cost of-4'm afraid to think
how much, and now you find that it is ridiculous to ha~ie
the furniture without a silver teapot. I snppos~ if you

had the teapot you'd find it ridiculous without the whole
service."
Such was in fact Mrs. Van Horn's drift but she pm.
gently edged in but one article at a time.
"No-no "-continued Mr. Van Horn, "this is too
much. Think for a moment of the money I have
already sunk in this house, money which not only pro.
duces nothing but on the contrary necessitates constant
and further outlay., Calculate the interest on this dead
capital including the cost of your trinkets and jewels
and the useless horses and carriage-say at seven per-
cent per annum and see the large amount yearly lost that
igight be so profitably employed in relieving distress,
supporting missions, and otl*r benevolent things, instead
of ministering 'to our worldliness and vanity. And yet
you would have me sink more."
"Mrs. Queezy"
"Pray don't mention Mrs. Q~eezy to me, Mrs. Van
Horn. ~A lady who professes to be a Christian and yet
rides to church in her carriage, thereby compelling her
coachman and horses to work on the Lord's day, can
surely be no example or pattern to any one."
"But, my dear, every one has these things. If we
couldn't afford it, I certainly wouldn't ask it. The
Sinchews have a breakfast.serviee in silver, with a large
urn besides the tea-set, and the Madopolams, and
"There-there - if the Sinchews and the Madopo-
lains have them, why, there's no resisting that argu-
ment," said Mr. Van Horn with resignation. "With
such splendid fools to lead, we can but humbly follow."
And so Mrs. Van Horn gained her suit and the tea~

II
I

201

200


202

GARRET VAN HORN.

service, and her husband left for his offlee, prophesying
inwardly that he would be teased the next week4'or a
gold dinner set.
The new house was built on the English model, and
contained, as the builder said, all the "modern improve-
ments;" but though much finer in appearance it was far
less comfortable than the snug, old-fashioned, roomy
dwelling in Madison street. Uncle Garret felt amid all
this splendor like, to use a vulgar simile, a cat in a
strange garret. The Spirit of Unrest hovered con-
tinually around his devoted head. Unused to the
"modern improvements," they weighed like an incubus
on his mind. He had vague ideas of the combustive
and explosive properties of gas, and would arise from
his couch at dead of night and wander from room to
room sniffing at the burners to ascertain if they were
properly closed. The first winter the water in the
meter froze, and utter darkness came over th~i house,
Now, behold Uncle Garret, Dennis, and Bridget the
cook in the cellar, with a kettle of boiling water and a
lighted candle. And they drenched the meter, and
they filled it, and took out the top screw, and the side
screw, and the bottom screw, and poured in gallon on
gallon, but the gas came not forth, and at last with
wrench and hammer the meter was detached from the
pipe and laid on the kitchen range to thaw; when, in a
few moments, it being charged with gas, it burst like a
shell, maiming poor Bridget and prostrating Uncle
Garret. Thenceforth he dave to spermaceti, and
banished gas for ever. Nor was this the end of his
troubles, for the frost cracked the lead conduits, so that

GARRET VAN HORN.

203

the water leaked through the parlor ceiling, detaching
portions of the frescoes and ruining the carpets, and
careless plumbers caine for repairs, who stood on satin-
covered chairs, rudely knocked holes in the walls, and
filled the expensive lace curtains with lime-dust. Then
the heat from the patent furnace warped all the wood-
work, so that the windows had to be pried open with
pokers, and the doors could not be shut without the
joiners' assistance. In fact, such were the trouble and
annoyance incurred by Mr. Van Jiorn in his elegant
residence, that he endeavored to purchase back his old
one, and almost yielded to the extortionate demands of
~ the new owner,
Neither was Mrs. Van Horn as contented with all this
magi~ificence as one would suppose; and though her
long cherished desire for a prominent position in
fashionable circles was within her reach, and Mr. Van
horn, yielding to her importunities, now allowed her to
mingle in all the social gaieties of the wealthy, ~et
even this seemed not to bring the expected pleasure.
How she had changed! Once a cheerful, equable
matron, a bustling, careful housewife, kind and good-
natured to all; and now peevish, irritable and fitful as
the wind. There were moments when she was almost
as wild with trivial joy as a school-girl, and again she
had long periods of dejection which even Dr. Rose, who
came frequently, with his agreeable conversation and
fine flow of spirits failed to dissipate. All this was the
more remarkable in a woman of her mature age. There
was surely some concealed thorn pressed occasionally to
the quick, whose infliction she strove to hide from the
world. I detected her several times in tears, and this

I~p

ii


204

GARRET VAN HORN.

and other circumstances confirmed my suspicions that
my aunt did not live happily with her husband; for, in
addition to a disparity of tastes, the insularity of the
husband's emotions, his dry heart, his reticence, and
total devotion to money-making, were but calculated to
repulse the affection of a warm, yearning nature, It is
true he was never unkind to her; never aggressively so.
No words of anger or bitter chiding had she ever heard
from his lips. Nor could she cor~plain of his parsimony,
for Mr. Van~JJorn, though as true a Man3mon~worship
per as ever lived, was far from being a miser, and his
wife could command almost everything in the power of
wealth to bestow. But, he could not give her that
which he had not. His heart knew no such emotion as
love. He felt towards her but a passive, respectful
partiality, for she was his wife, endowed with all his
worldly goods, and entitled to his regard, care, and
protection. She had accepted him, let us avow it, be-
* cause being a poor seamstress the offer was an advan-
tageous one; and she would have learnt to love him
had she found a reciprocal tendency on his part. But
she met none. He never thawed. He had married
her to obtain a home, for a home was comfort and quiet,
and comfort and quiet realized his idea of pleasure.
He had acquired these. Mrs. Van Horn had conducted
to this pleasant state of things, and so they resided in
amity and peace together.
And yet, how was it that while they had so long
lived in seeming concord and contentuient, it was but
now, at this late hour, that .the wife exhibited any signs
of leading an unhappy and embittered existence?
This I could not account for.

GARRET VAN HORN.

205

To me, Mrs. Van Horn had certainly been as kind as
a mother, and perhaps did love me quite as much as
if I were in reality her son; whilst I could not be other-
~vise than strongly attached to her, for she had always
sought to contribute to my happiness, and did now
furnish me with money, that very necessary and de-
sirable thing to one of my profession, i. e. that of a
gentleman of elegant leisure. With me Shakspeare's
third and fourth ages had been transposed, and crc I
wrote sonnets to eye-brows and sighed like a furnace,
ambition had died within me, and. I was left in the semi-
apathetic state of one awaiting the turn of Fortune's
wheel which is to cast an unearned fortulie in his lap.
A state it was of anticipations, dreams, plans for the
future, repose, and smoking; in short, what poets call
lotus-eating, Italians the sweet do-nothing, and ignorant
people laziness. To rise at nine or so, read the news-
papers or a novel, then a lounge till dinner-time calling
on tailor or bootmaker; after dinner another saunter
and cigar; at evening dressing for play or party, wind-
ing off with billiards, brandy and water, and smoking
until three or four o'clock in the morning; passing my
time in embellishing my person, getting into debt,
and quaffing the waves of pleasure as they floated to
my lips. This was the life I led, with, as chief comrade
and sharer in its delights, the Doctor, the elegant and
distinguished Doctor Rose! To be sure, I had by this
time discovered that that man had many vicious traits
of character; that he was an unprincipled profligate and
us nmate cajoler; but what of that? lie had never
injured me, that I was aware of, but on the contrary
had ever manifested a very friendly spirit towards me.

if
~1
'I
B
B
B
B
I
I

I


206

GAJ~RET VAN HORN.

Why then should I cast stones at him? I wa~ not over
virtuous myself; and besides, he was the most agreeable
and diverting companion I had ever met with, so I ex-
cused him from acts that I would have condemned in
others. Such is human nature. Had we been bottle-
companions of Nero, Caligula, ileliogabalus, or those
other fine 61d Roman gentlemen of the Decadence, we
doubtless would have viewed their pastimes in a far
different and less odious light than mere strangers
410.
"It is now exactly five months and eleven days, sir,
since you returned, and I have not as yet had any inti-
mation of how you intend to dispose of the balance of
your valuable life," said Uncle Garret to me.
"Really, sir," I replied, "I cannot say I have
bestowed much thought upon it myself; and am await-
ing your pleasure and instructions."
"It may be superfluous ko mention," he continued,
looking displeased at my flippant way, "that you have
not only wasted muehtime and money, but also acquired,
during your absence in foreign lands, sundry expensive
and irregular habits; but nevertheless I do so, in the
hope that you will reform, as it is absolutely necessary
you should if you wish to remain on good terms with
me. Once for all, Garret, you must turn over a new
Jeaf or we must part. Understand this. I will show
no favor nor give any assistance to any one leading a
life, of indolence and frivolity. Now, I have a proposal
to make to you. I 'nay probably be able to procure
you a situation in an institution, in Wall street, of which
1 am a director. Say, as assistant book-keeper or some-

/

C

- GARRET VAN hORN.

207

thing of that fort. Arc you willing to accept it and go
to work?"
Something in his eye told me that the alternative was
a complete disruption between himself and nephew, so I
was wise enough to answer 111 the a1Th~mative.
And when he had left the room, Aunt Jane continued
on her side to exhort inc to industry and steady habits,
hinting also at the great satist1~ction it wouki give her
to see me, now that I had arrived at man's estate,
wedded to her niece Laura, and settled in life. I told
her plainly that Laura was not to my taste, and mar-
riage with her entirely out of the question. Then she
conchideci with that ~iaiz~c frankness which characterized
her: "AnyxiTay, Garry, do try and keep on the right
side of your uncle. And after we die-and I for one,
what between the trouble I have with the help, and
suffering as I do from the neuralgia, can't live a great
while long~r-you will have all the money."

I
I

I
(                                  II
2


ChAPTER

XIII.

TUE QOTUA~T ~us'i' A~D BA~x1~'G CO?
N ow you find me clerk at a salary of one thousand
dollars a year in the employ of the Gotham Trust
and Banking Company, No Wall street. This
banking company having played an important part
among the moneyed institutions of the "street" it may
be well to recount its origin and rise. Who projected
it, do you suppose? Some astute financier, think you?
Nothing of the kind, nobody, in fact, but a little grub-
bing pettifogger named Mieklethwaite, who fishing
about for some scheme to replenish his pockets and
launch him into notoriety had hit upon a plan for a bank-
ing Company, with unusual and profitable privileges,
which he submitted to Mr. Van horn with the propo-
sal to obtain a valid charter for such an institution as he
possessed some political influence with the party then
in power. Mr. Van Horn cautiously studied the pros

L

GAIU~BT VA ~' 3IOi~T.209

ject and conferred with a few other capitalists about it.
The result was that Mioklethwaite, furnished with the
needful money, was sent to Albany to procure the char-
tei'. lie had no difficulty in engaging the votes of the
city members who, after a little "salooning," were
ready to oblige Tommy Micklethwaite in anything,
but the legislators from the rural districts/were more
conscientious. They had an inflated idea of their posi-
tion anti liked to examine into things, and, in short,
were not to be bought without something substantial.
So Tommy Mickletliwaite had to fee handsomely enough
of these to serve his purpose, and then, having secured
the necessary majority, he pulled the strings, the read-
ings were hurried through, the Governor's signature
affixed, and Micklethwaite caine back to New York in
triumphant possession of the valuable charter.
The subscription books of the Gotham Trust and
Banking Co. were now opened, and the stock taken by
Mr. Van horn and his friends, who began operations by
instituting themselves directors of the concern. Mick-
lethwaite was rewarded with the appointment of counsel
to the company which brought him at once into, repute
as an able and responsible lawyer. Mr. Van horn
being the largest shareholder and ruling spirit, -selected
the officers as best beseemed him. Mr. Pennefether, a
cleik of his, he made treasurer for the purpose of having
some one in that important position entirely devoted to
his interests. The presidency heofi'ered to Mr. Amasa
Kemtop, a retired merchant, not on account of any
fitijess that gentleman had for the post, but simply
because he h~id more money than usually falls to the lot
of a sojourner on this wicked sphere, and would there~

4
I
4
p


210           o iu~ v~u~ irou~.                                                       T YA~ liO1~T.          211

fore buttress the company with additional responsibility.
So important a personage as Mr. Kerntop should not be
passed lightly by, for lie ranked among the "merchant
princes." us money he had made ostensibly by selling
butter and cheese, but in reality, by speculations in
stocks, his system being to oppose the popular current
and purchase when everybody else wanted to sell and
realize when others were buying. Following this rule
he had made a m~nt of money. lIe was an ignorant
man, and above all a pompous and ambitious one, loving
fame or notoriety (which Th the same thing) even beyond
money, let us give him credit for that, and therein he dif-
fered from Mr. Van horn, who would by far have prefer-
red a duke's rent-roll to his coronet, while Amasa would
gladly have resigned all the emoluments for the sake of
the title and position. Many were the efforts he had made
to be popular and talked about. Ho had been elected
alderman from his ward, which lie had represented with
much dignity in the municipal councils, and likewise
Alms House commissionere. But even this ~ilid not satisfy
him. Then he built a most wonderful house, a coun-
terpart of the Villa PizzicattP near Florence, costing
$266,423 (builders McGoflln &amp; Co., architect Bricks), so
the newspapers said, of which the door-plate, door-knob,
hinges, and bell-pull were of solid gold! protected from
robbers l~y an ingenious mechanism designed to alarm*
the household. Myriads came to look at these wonder-
ful door-trimmings, and the owner's renown spread from
Aristook to the Sabine. Such fame would be gratifying
to any man's feelings, and Mr. Kemtop felt as if he were
reaping the reward of a well-spent life. But unfortu-
nately, the ingenious mechanism got out of order at the

very time it was most needed, and "Sydney Bill," an
expert English cracksman, wrenched off the door-plate
and knob with a jimmy and decamped with Mr. Kern-
top's grandeur. No way daunted, A. Kemtop, Esq.,
Lady, family, and three servants went to Europe, and
we soon learnt through the papers that lie had offered
the Tuscan government a half million dollars for the
Venus de' Medici-quarter cash and the balance in the
sinldng-fitncl bonds of the Munnisunk Valley Railroad-
which liberal offer the government refused to accept.
But lie bought at Dusseldorf a "Prometheus Bound,"
size 15 x 20 feet, for eighty thousand dollars (newspa-
pers again), which was exhibited on its arrival at a
picttirc-shop in Broadway. Everybody went to see this
great work of art, and steel-plate engravings of the
same were sold in abundance, so that at least one
thousand miless had a copy on paper of the great
canvas original which hung in Mr. Amasa Kemtop's
gallery of pictures and "statuary," as he called it. But
restless ambition still urged him on, the laurels of Mil-
tiades would not let him sleep, and~he sighed for greater
distinction. Like all conceited men he had a great
opinion of his administrative abilities and fancied that
the post 6f president of some bank or similar institu-
tion would exactly suit him, it being an easy honorary
sort of a position with nothing to do and entitling a
man to much respect, consideration, politeness, and
fawning. So Mr. Kemtop was delighted to accept the
presidency of the Gotham Trust and Banking Company
at a small salary, and to subscribe for a large amount of
the stock, and Mr. Van Horn, on his part, was well satis-
fLed with such an arrangement as it would leave the

4,


212          GARRET 'VAN I[ORN~                                                                  213

government of the institution entirely to him and his
satellite Pennefether. Thus, with such a wealthy and
therefore respectable man as Mr. Kemtop at the helm,
and sundry other equally wealthy and respectable men
as conners, the company sailed at once into popular
favor. Thpir business consisted chiefly in receiving
money on deposit, allowing a small rate of interest on it,
and lending the same money at as high an advance as
possible. They also undertook to negotiate state loans
and brought out the well-known Oregon Internal Im-
provement Debt. Such success did they meet with, that
at the end of six months they declared and paid a divi-
dend of eight per centum out of the profits realized.
This indicating a prosperous state of affi~irs created a
demand for the shares, which demand, being judiciously
fostered by Mr.. Van horn, who caused two brokers to
make fictitious sales and purchases at the "Board,"
raised the price of shares to twenty and even thirty per
cent. premium. At this point Mr. Van Horn gradually
disposed of one-half of his interest thereby netting a
gain of some ten thousand dollars. Most of the direc-
tors took advantage of the rise to sell and thus made
hay while the sun shone. Xor was this all the profit
these gentlemen pocketed, for it must not be supposed
that their time and service~ were gratuitously given.
By no means, for each of the directory held a loan from
the company equal to, if not exceeding, his portion of
the capital. Mr. Van Horn, in particular, had made a
handsome thing by ridding himself, at a large price, of
some western lands; the purchase money being accoin-
modatingly furnished by the company who took a mort-
gage on the lands and the bond of the buyer as security.

It was during this flourishing condition of things,
while deposits were flowing freely in from courts,
estates, country bankers, and the confiding public gene-
rally, that I was installed in the office of the Gotham
Trust and Banking Co. Mr. Van horn merely said:
"Mr. Kemtop, I am seeking some employment for .a
nephew of mine, just returned from Europe. He writes
a fair hand and has a little knowledge of accounts. I
suppose you can find him something to do here, can't
you ?"
"0, certainly," said obliging Mr. Kemtop. "Send
him along, Mr. Van horn, and I dare say we'll find him a
desk."
So along I came the Monday following, and Mr. Pen-
nef~ther (with whom I was already acquainted) intro-
duced me to Mr. Kemtop who pompously gave me a
finger to shake, and to Mr. Kemtop's eldest son, Stan-
hope Kemtop the "actuary." What the actuary's
duties were I never ascertained, for drawing his pay was
about the only labor he ever performed to my know-
ledge. But Stanhope had married the daughter of a
rich old ~purmudgeon who would not part with a dollar
while tli~e was a breath in his body, and consequently
Stanhope had to be provided for until his father-in-law
was put into the ground. The other clerks, I found,
were also like myself, connections and prot6g6s of the
directors and pensioners on the company.
Tim suite of offices was handsomely fitted-up, and
there was a sequestered bower where Mr. ICemtop sat
three hours per diem in a thickly cushioned arm chair,
cdewiiV1' tobacco,       papers, or giving audience
1             reading the
to his broker, for he gambled in. stocks like a Mexican at

GARRET VAN hORN.

212

218


214         GA1u~ET VAN HORN.                                       GARRET VAN HORN.        215

monte. At two o'clock r.~. his carriage came for him,
a splendidd one with large purple hammer-cloth, silver
crest, men in livery, and rolled him away so majestically
to his dinner in the -grand $26G,423~residence with the
eighty thousand dollar picture and "statuary," with the
Sevres china spittoons in the drawing-rooms, and the
wonderful library where Mr. Kemtop took his post-
prandial snooze, surrounded by his elegant unread books
bearing on their covers the family escutcheon with the
motto, " Virtute et V~dore." I caught him once in that
elegant attitude, when, having to deliver a message
which required his immediate attention, I entered his
library or "study," unannounced. He lay in his dress-
ing-gown fast asleep on a leather lounge, the Evening
Gazette just dropping from his hand. All around him
were shelves stocked with the wisdom of the world, with
of sages, the o'em
the lore                ~ of wits, and the inspired
songs of poets, Homer, Esehylus, Dante, Montesquien,
Cervantes, Locke, each stamped with a "crest "-that
silly tag of vain minds-and the busts of Caesar, Sh~rk-
speare, and Washington staring with stony orbs at the
snoring fool beside them.
Bnt to return to the Gotham Trust and Banking Com-
pany. There were in its employ about twjce as many
clerks as were needed, and yet nearly all were either inca-
pables or idlers. There was also a colored man as porter,
whose chief business was to brush clothes, black boots,
carry about billets-doux, and buy apples for the clerks,
or papers of "Mrs. Miller's fine-cut tobacco," for the
president. My duties were exceedingly light and simple;
I was, as it were, unattached to any particular post. I

came about five minutes before the president did, read
the papers, then discoursed about the fine arts or the
fashions with Stanhope Kemtop, or perhaps, to oblige
Penn efether, went on a short errand, then five minutes
after the president left I lit h cigar and followed suit,
and the only writing I over did was in attending to my
own correspondence, which, by the bye, was wholly
restricted to such purposes as making appointments,
accepting invitations, and sending "regrets."
The labor of the office, in fact, devolved almost en-
tirely upon Mr. Pennefether, and to do him justice he
accomplished it with great ability; but, as out of all the
employed there was hardly one capable of affording him
any efficient assistance he wanted to procure somebody
competent to advise and aid, or, if need be, to replace
him at an emergency. The directory acquiescing in this
desire, he engaged an Englishman named hart, who was
a thorough and able accountant. But Mr. Hart, though
a quiet, industrious, intelligent, and reputable man, was
unfortunate in the~ shape of his nose. He had scarcely
been with us a fortnight when Mr. Van horn, for the
first time, observed the peculiar nasal configuration of
the new clerk. Instantly calling Pennefether into the
directors' room, lie said: "Mr. Pennefether, isn't that
man-that neW comer-A JEW 'i"
Mr. Pennefether replied that he had made no inquiries
on the subject, but he believed, that in truth, such was
the case.
"Knowing this, ho~v came you to engage him ?"
inquired Mr. Van Horn.
"11 didn't bestow a ~ought on his religion, lie
brought excellent testimonials in regard to character


21~3           GAIIRET VAN 1IOI~N~                                                    GARRET VAN HORN.              217

and capability and I have found him a very effl~ient
man."
"That may all be. Still I put it to you as a business
man, whether you think such a nose as that, calculated
to inspire our dealers with confidence in the concern?
I don't. I have no confidence in the race, Mr. Penne-
fether, none whatever. They love money too well.
Bear in mind how they robbed the Egyptians; and,"
added he, with a dry cackle~'whici~NVas his nearest ap-
proa~h to a laugh, "they haven't forgotten their old
tricks yet."
"Very well, Mr. Van horn, I shall inform Mr. Hart
that he had better seek another situation at once."
"Do so, Mr. Pennefether. And-ah----.-um-you need
not intimate onr reasons-say simply that we shall not
need his services after the first of next month. I have a
young man in my eye that I think will suit you better.
A highly respectable young man. I will send him to
you."
Very much amused was I at ~this little occurrence
when Mr. Pennefether told me of it; and so was Doctor
Rose when I related it to him. "And so," said the
latter, "he thinks Jews love money too well, does
he? lla-~--ha! Capital, indeed! That shows the dis-
advantage of having a nose fashioned after those of the
patriarchs, don't it? Methinks, Van, your uncle shows
a similar antipathy to people who abstain from meat on
Friday, don't he? Bless his old heart! just like him,
too. It's good Christian hate-I like him for that.
Begging his pardon, he's a glorious old hypocrite; ain't
he, Van? But what of that, we're all hypocrites a~ud
b.umbugs in one way or another, and doesn't the wisest

~an that ever lived, that old sated sinner, Solomon,
head the list in reproving sin? however, all the world's
a hum, so make the most of it if you're wise," etc., etc.
There was a charming frankness about the Doctor's
speech that could not fail to please, and as I agreed with
him we enjoyed a good long laugh over my uncle's
Pharisecism.
Accoi'dingly, Mr. Hart was obliged to trudge, and
Mr. I-Tei~ry Ileber Lissom, the respectable young man
that Mr. Van Horn had in his eye, came in his stead.
Mr. Lissom was all that could be desired in the way
of respectability. He was pale and near-sighted, and
taught a Sunday-school class, lie wore neither hair on
his visage nor rings on his fingers; his clothes were
unassuming, his watch a silver one with a black ribbon
guard, whereas Mr. Hart was much addicted to per-
fumes and precious stones. This new clerk, likewise,
abhorred tobacco, and was economical. When beggars
came, instead of flinging them a sixpence as Mr. Hart
would have done, he. questioned them kindly, ascer-
tained their creeds, made a note of' their residences in
his memorandum-book, and promised to visit them. In
this way we got rid of many bothersome mendicants.
Mr. Lissom was a favorite with Uncle Garret, who
held him up to me as a model; but unfortunately, he
proved a failure. Not in the way of respectability, be
it understood, for there he rated Al, as the under-
writers would say, but in book-keeping; for he was
totally ignorant of that science,, and Mr. Pennefether
would have far preferred that pure Caucasian Mr.
Hart with his objectionable nose, to the new clerk and
his manifold virtues,
10

216

217


218'        GARRET VAN HORN.                                          GARRET VAN HORN.        219

The other clerks, being a sad set, were envious of the
immaculate Lissom and made a butt of him. They
played all sorts of tricks at his expense. They stoic his
"Christian Jutelligencer," and substituted "The Flash,"
and put theatre-bills and playing-cards in his surtout
pockets, to the great scandal of his serious sisters;
they got him inserted in the directory as a bar~keepcr,
and presented him with Byron's Don Juan, and tickets
for raffles, balls, and sparring exhibitions. '~ As he took
these jokes in good part we were'encouraged to more
brilliant ones, and I caused to be advertised in the
"Sun," that several good fighting dogs were wanted
by Henry ileber Liss~om, No. -~ Wall street, in the
office of the Gotham Trust and Banking Company. At
least one hundred dogs of high and low degree were
offered. To the first corners he was bland, and said
affably that there must be some mistake; but as dog
followed dog, and one bow-legged, crop-eared, square-
jawed cur, with eyes like burnt holes in his skin; made
a vicious snap at the Lissom calves, Henry ileber lost
all patience and denounced the author of the joke as no
gentlei~an. I was silly enough to' get angry at this,
and swore that if he did not apologize, I would kick
him. He did so, for I was much the stronger, and a
nephew of Mr. Van Horn's. More shame to me, for
Lissom was a kind, well-meaning fellow, worth, perhaps,
to the world a dozen such vain bullies as I.
One fine day, Myndert stopped in the ollice to see
me. After a little preliminary talk he said, with an
embarrassed air unusual to him, "I believe, Garry, I
promised to introduce you to Miss home. Now, as I

11

am going there this eve ing, if you choose to accom.
pany me, you may do s~" and he blushed like a culprit
school-girl.
'Calling on young ladies had been formerly so entirely
out of Myndert's province or inclination, that I was
amused at his proposal, and curious to see the fair one
whose killing glances had brought 'down such heavy
and stolid quarry, I accepted his invitation. The young
lady lived at Bloomingdale, between two and three
miles from Union Square, so we rode in a light waggon,
and Myndert's nag being a speedy one we soon reached
the house.
The domestic informed us that Miss Home was not
in, and we were about retreating when a loud, cheery
voice arrested us. "Come in, Mr. Van Horn-come
in, gentlemen." The speaker was Mr, Home, father of
the young lady we came, to see, a stoutish man, rather
advanced in years, and with an unmistakable Britannic
appearance about his collar, cravat, and whiskers.
"I am delighted, sir," he said to me, "to make the
acquaintance of Mr. Van Horn's brother. I am sorry
Lesbian is out. She's gone to a fancy fair, or something
of that sort, at our church. You have had a dusty
ride from town. Pray, what may I offer you? Shall
it be a glass of sherry? I say sherry, as it's the best
thing I have at present. James-bring sherry and
sandwiches."
"Nice spot and fine lawn you have, Mr. Home,"
said I, feeling called upon to say something.
"Aye. It 4. as good as any I've seen in this country.
But the grass here don't possess that crispy, brilliant
verdure and freshness which it has in England. I sent

218

219


220          GARRET VAN HORN.                                          G   ]flT VAN HORN.     ~221

over for lawn-seed when I laid this place out; but for
some reason or other, perhaps because the soil isn't
congenial, or the climate not damp enough, it don't
thrive as well as it should."
The sherry was prime and I said so.
"I'm glad you like it. It is good wine," said Mr.
Home in his slow, positive way. "You seldom find
anything like it here. I got it direct from Xeres.
Americans, I remark, have but little knowledge of wines,
and I am gratified to find on6 with an appreciative
palate."
What with talking, eating sandwiches, and drinking
wine, an hour or two slipped quickly away, when Mr.
Home drew his atch and recollected that he had
promised his ughter to call at the fair for her.
"If you will excuse me, gentlemen,' and make your-
selves at home here, I won't be absent beyond a half.
hour at the longest, but I promised my daughter I
would certainly go for her, and when we return we can
have a quiet rubber, if you choose."
"But why disturb yourself; Mr. Home? Why can
we not go ?" asked Myndert.
"No-no-thank you, Mr. Van Horn, you'i~e very
kind, I'm sure, but "-
"No kindness at all about it," said Myndert. "Sit still,
Mr. home. You'd have to draw on your boots and all
that, and here we are all ready and wilihig to start,
Pray let me anJ my brother go."
"Well," said Mr. Home, who far preferred his easy
chair to moving about at that hour, "if it would not be
imposing too much on your good nature,"
"No imposition at all," said Myndert, his face all joy,

1J

I;
[4
'ii
f 4

"quite the contrary, it's a great pleasure,~~~ And it was
plain to see he spoke the truth.
"Did you see," said Myndert to me, as we were on
our way to the church, "did you notice that little girl
who came running to ihe door when the man opened
it?"
"That homely little thing do you mean, with the white
apron? Is that her sister ?"
"Sister, no. It's a little child she took home about a
year ago out of charity. Its father was a quarryman
working hereabout-poor Irish folk-living in a wretch-
ed shanty. The father was killed by a blast-the mother
took the small-pox and died, and Miss Home, Garry,
visited that woman when she was on her sick bed, dying
of that frightful disease-brought her food, clothing,
medicine, and what not-sent the physician and priest to
her-and after she died, took the infant home where it
now remains, as you saw, comfortably clad and well
taken care of,"
IIo-ho~-.--thought I-I see what's vanquished you, my
dear brother, A ministering angel-piety, primness,
~nd starch, middle-age, spectacles, and wisdom. With-
out doubt a tract distributor, demure and proper as a
prioress.
The fair was held in the basement of an Episcopal
church, a neat stone edifice built chiefly through Mr.
jilome's liberality and exertions, on condition that Her
Majesty of Great Britain should be remembered in the
~crvicc as is customary in her dominions.
The tables were attended by some young ladies of the
neighborhood among whom was Miss Home. Her stir-


222          GARRET V.A~T                                                    G~ARRE~ VAN~ HORN.        223

passing grace and beauty surprised me! and. still more
so the possibility that such a girl could entertain any
partiality for an uncouth body like Myndert Van Horn.
1J;e introduced me, however, with an air of joy and
triumph ~poor misguided fellow!) to the beautiful damsel,
and as he was soon after called away by an acquain-
tance to circulate a ~grab-bag, I had a pleasant and
intimate chat alon~ with her. "Yoa are hardly a
stranger, Mr. Van Horn, for your brother has spoken to
me so often about you," said she, "but you are alto-
gether a different personage from what I had pictured
to myself."
"I hope a. more pleasing personage at all events, Miss
Home."
"I should never have taken you for Mr. Myndert's
brother, or even for an American, you have so much th'e
appearance of a foreigner. I hear you have been roam-
ing about the world, Jivin~ in Paris, and now I suppose
you baye grown so fastidious that you are pleased with
nothing this poor country can offer."
"0 yes, Miss Home, there is at least one thing here
that pleases me beyond anything I have ever met else-
where, an4 that is "-~---~--~
"Never mind," she interposed with an arch glance,
"I know very well what you intend to say for I've
already diseevered that, like me, you are apt to say
many things you don't mean. Now, were I not entirely
satisfied that there isn't the least bit of vanity about
you, I shouldn't tell you how anxious I have been to see
you."
"How can I,. Miss Ho-me, how could I be otherwise
than vain at such an avowal from one SOr ~

"Pray don't-hear me out. Exceedingly anxious,
indeed, have I been to see you, but merely because I
was curious to know if there were another such odd
being in the world as Myndert Van Horn." -
"Poor Myndert !"
"Why 'poor? I don't see why he should be pitied in
the least. I'm sure he affords me a deal of amusement
which is more than many others do, particularly when
he tries~to be elegant, for then hc~ appears so exceedingly
uncomfortable. Do. look at him! lie has been bargain-
ing for the last ten minutes ~vith Miss Wilson for a
hair-brush. She tried him first with a bottle of rose-
water, but he shook his head; she is more successful with
t~e brush, but I suppose he finds the price too high.
He's not going to be imposed upon. Did you ever see
such monstrous gloves! Pray tell him the ladies notice
with pain the discomfort those ai'ticles cause him, and
while they appreciate the laudable feelings which prompt
him to wear them, beg he will desist from torturing him-
self in that inhuman manner for their sakes."
"Hew merciless you are to your victims, Miss Home.
I see now what I may expect."
"It is impolite, not to say unkind in me to talk so of
such a good-natured, obliging creature as Myndert Van
Horn-but goodness me! I should be attending to my
business and selling my wares. Do purchase some~
thing ?"
She spoke in a clear chest-voice that was music itself,
with the English inflection which is a relief from our
monotonous Yankee head-tones. Under cover of our
unmeaning talk we were scrutinizing each other and she
was doing a del of mischief with a pair of splendid


224         GARRET VAN HORN.                                           GARRET VAN HORN.        225

black eyes. Not a pair of downcast, timid, soul-windows,
but eyes that darted fire and fun into mine and said so
plainly: I know very well you're' admiring me for I've
encountered such looks as yours scores of times before,
Doubtless she bad, and I was trying with all the elo-
quence my poor optics were capable of, to inform her
that I was her devoted slave and madly in love with
her at first sight. Could I help it? Listen while I
attempt a feeble portraiture of a beauty who would have
made of Diogenes a fop, and of Cato a courtier.
Lesbia Home was then hardly seventeen, but having
been habituated to constant open-air exercise h~id grown
tall and well-developed for her age. She was straight and
graceful as an Tonic shaft, with a Corinthian luxuriance
of lustrous dark haik, and a complexion, where the
ardent bkod of &amp;outh glowed richly through a transpa-
rent white, not a delicate rosiness either; not lilies dip-
ped in wine; but a damask bloom that overspread the
round chin, the rims of two small ears, and with lighter
hue, the palms of two plump hands; then eyes of spark-
ling black, incendiary, marvellous eyes! fine teeth, and a
milk-white throat. These, united to a symmetrical figure,
were certainly charms enough to set any son of Adam
distracted, and is it to be wondered at that flesh-and-
blood Garret learnt in an instant to adore this handsome
girl and to hate his brother in a corresponding measure?
Hate him! aye, not only him but half a score of other
offensive fellows who seemed to be on disagreeably inti-
mate terms with her, and for whom I was totally neg-
lected after she had sold me a sprig of geranium and a
japonica bud for the sum of five dollars.
I had no other opportunity for a t~te-~-t~te with her

10*

that evening, for the fair soon broke up and Myndert and
I escorted her home, during which she monopolized the
conversation. Mr. I-Tome was ready for whist and in-
vited us to stay over night with him, but Myndert
refused.
"What do you think of Miss Home ?" were the first
words he uttered as we were riding back to the city.
"Isn't she amiable? Isn't she beautiful? And I tell
you she's good as she's beautiful,". added he with a cut
to his horse to emphasize that last declaration.
"She's rather prepossessing," I replied, affecting a
nonchalant air and lighting a cigar.
"You should hear her sing, Garry, a nightingale's a
fool to her! Eh, what are you doing? Not flinging
away that flower she gave you? What-what !"
"Why should I keep it? It's bothersome. You
don't suppose I'm in love with the girl as you are ?"
said I puffing away at my cigar. "Besides it's no gift.
I bought it. Dear enough, too."
Had Myndert been less obtuse in such matters, he
might have discerned that his brother was ill-disposed
to listen to his panegyrics of Miss Home, and that he
was indeed far more inclined to quarrel with any one
who made any pretensions to that young lady's special
regard. But neither jealousy tior envy formed any part
of Myndert's character, and therefore, while he escaped
much of the irritation and vexation of life, he lost that
penetration which these vices bestow.
Let lhere be but ever so little of the serpent in us and
we'll get some of hi~ xvisdon~ as ~vell.


GARRET VAN HORN.

CHAPTER XIV.
~fflE HOMES.
A ROHTBALI H0~nv, Esq., the father of Miss Lesbia,
was the second son of Donald Home, cotton
spinner, of Glasgow. Rather servile occupation, you
will say, for a lineal descendant of one of the "Seven
Spears of Wetterburn;" but, as in this degenerate age,
"The Percy deals in coals,
The Douglas in red-herrings,"
why may not ~ Home in six-cord cabled sewing-thread?
For all that, Donald the spinner had succeeded' in
winning the hand of Katherine, fourth daughter of
Lord Cuthbert Marshmallow, in return for having
nobly lifted a heavy mortgage from the Marshmallow
estates. From his union with this lady sprang three
sons: Cuthbert, the eldest, who entered the Fusilier
Guards; Archibald and Allan. Archibald, the second

son, received the appointment of ll.B.M.'s consul at
Cadiz, where he resided for several years, and married
a native lady who bore him one child, a daughter,
christened Lesbia by the chaplain of H.B.M's frigate
Consternation (then in. Cadiz harbor), after her ances~
tress, Lady Lesbia Marshmallow, the great beauty of
Charles the Second's reign, and re-christened by her
mother's directions, and according to the ritual of the
Roman ~atholie church, not in that heathenish appella~
tion, but in the more appropriate and respectable pre~
nornens of Isabel, Mercedes, Dolores, Luisa, and Juanita.
This proceeding on the part of Sei~ora Home was the
beginning of a series of differences between herself and.
spouse, which lasted, with but little intermission, until
she died, spine three years after her daughter's birth.
The~i Mr. ~tlome, fearful lest his child should be enticed.
by her mother's relatives into the pale of Holy Mother
Church, and believing that salvation was only attain-
able with certainty through the Church of England and
its Thirty-Nine Articles, sent her to London and. eon-
signed her to the care of an old. maiden grand-aunt, the
Hon. Miss Eleanor hay, who resided there. Here
Lesbian remained. until her thirteenth year. Meanwhile,
Mr. Home had resigned his consulship to conduct a
branch house of Home, McLeod &amp; Co. (successors to
Donald home &amp; Co.) in New York; and having
definitely settled. himself in, that city he sent for his
daughter, and for a trusty English house-keeper to
accompany h~r and to take charge of the new home.
Mr. home was a thorough Scot both by birth and
feeling, and no less a loyal subject of the young Queen.
Being a man of probity and wealth, of large heart and

V

62

227


228          ~i~iirn~ VAN HORN.                                          QARRI~T VAN HORN.        229

open pocket, and besides an enthusiastic lover of every.
thing English or Scotch, he was, in consequence, a
great favorite with all his countrymen. He was presi-
dent of thd St. Andrew's Society, chairman of Burns
dinners, a manager of Thistle balls, and, in short, spared
himself in nothing that could conduce to keep alive a
patriotic flame for the Land o' Cakes. But he loved
England also; for he looked upon that country as an
appanage of his own, and firmly thought all Britain's
glory due to the enterprise and intellect of Scotsmen;
and when I add, that he believed tartan the most
becoming wear for the human family; the skirl of the
bagpipes the sweetest music; cairugorms the finest
gems,. Burns the greatest poet, Scott the greatest
novelist, Wallace the greatest hero, and the admirable
Crichton the greatest man that ever existed; why, I
think enough has been said to indicate Mr. Home's pre-
judices and proclivities to the sagacious reader's know~
ledge.
He lived, as was mentioned before, at Bloomingdale,
in a large old-fashioned country dwelling which he had..
leased for a number of years. He could not hold it in
Lee-simple without becoming a citizen, and he was too
loyal a liege of the British Crown to sacrifice his
nationality for any such purpose; indeed, it was told to
me, that when the lawyer prolYosed such a course to
him, as he might have made a good bargain by buying
the property in question, he actually took it as an
insult.
"Naturalized, Sir! What. do you mean, Sir ?"
"It's merely a form," said the conveyancei, blandly.
"A form, Sir; do you call that a form, Sir? Do you

propose to Archibald Home, Sir, that he should for-
swear his country and his gracious SOVEREIGN! Dam-
mit, Sir! are you in earnest? Do you take me for a
Frenchman or a Dutchman, that I should wish to be-
come a snuffling Yankee !"
"Don't be so hasty, Mr. Home," said the lawyer, "I
meant no offence. I merely wish to inform you, that it
is impossible for a foreigner to own real estate in our
State without going through that formality."
"Then I'll not buy it. No, Sir, I'll not go throi~gh
that 'formality' as you call it to own all theland in this
beggarly country," and he brought his cane down on
the floor with an energy that betokened a desire to lay
it across the lawyer's back.
So he took a lease of the place, altered and ornamented
it to suit his ideas of convenience and beauty, and called
it "The Maples," in honor of two well-shaped maple-
trees that flourished on the premises. Ift was situated
just far enough away to escape the roar of the restless
city, and had just land enough attached for stables,
garden, and lawn. There was an Englishman, of
course, for the stables, and a Scotchman, old Cluny, for
the garden, and everything about the place was as tidy
and comfortable as one could wish to have it.' Thus
situated, and with a daughter he doted on, it was no
wonder that Mr. Home was a happy and contented
man, as he certainly deserved to be, for, as the saying
is, there was not a mean hair in his head, not one, and
his, face spoke that out to the satisfaction of all. You
could not look at his genial countenance with the fresh,
ruddy cheeks, red-pepper and salt whisker dimpled
chin, and open bluish eye, without loving the man, more


2S0           GAT~RET VAN HOR~W.                                              GARRET VA.N HOlU~.         231

especially if you had already seen his daughter. Give
that man five hundred thousand acres of land, a castle
and a title, and you would have a model nobleman, and
the kindest and most hospitable of landlords. His
house and all in it would be at your service, provided
you were of "good family ;" he would be a generous
protector to his tenants and strive to make them all as
happy and comfortable as circumstances would admit,
provided always that they killed no foxes, snared no
hares, nor set any night lines in the trout preserves.
He would~raise the finest cattle and till the finest farms.
He would be a just magistrate; a legislator ever faithful
to the interests of his class; a staunch patriot; in short,
a pillar of the state, and moreover, a powerful foe to the
Rights of Man. His eldest son, the heir and Right
Honorable, would probably be a dishonorable black-
guard, for in the natural course of events every alter-
nate lord of the manor would have to pay the penalty
of possessing unearned wealth. But the greatest harm
my lord, the model nobleman, wouki inflict on society,
would be in his raising, besides fat bullocks and heavy
wheat, a large crop of parasites, sycophants, toadies,
tuft-hunters, and other varieties of the genus Snob, and
another crop of servile, humble, imbruted otters Sir
Roger de Coverley was a gentleman, no doubt, and
Bracebridge Hall a goodly place to spend the Christmas
holidays, but how about Hodge and Giles who toil and
nioU and are kept in ignorance and leading strings, that
the Squire and Sir Roger may hunt, shoot, and drink
their tawny port in lazy dignity? Are those stupid
chaw.bacons who whip off their hats Jike slaves when
my lord passes by, and catch at ha'pence flung at them

V

greedily as beggars, free born Britons? or are they
Russian serfs? Perhaps, though, the peerage is not so
much the cause of snobbery as the wealth and privileges
the peers possess. Stripped of all but their tinsel tags
called titles, and reduced to penury, no one but a roman-
tic school-girl would do them homage, but when their
historic names are conjoined with console, broad acres and
manor-houses, their grandeur is apparent and irresistible.
:Nothing, iii fact, is left for us less favored mortals and
poor proletarians, but to kneel, truckle, and become
loyal flunkeys and admiring snobs.
Mr. home had certainly a great veneration for "good
or old families." To be sure he idolized Burns, knew
his poetry by heart, and prated much about "a man's
a man for a' that," hut he meant nothing by it, no more
than you or 1, kind reader, for, gadzooks! how quick-
ly either of us would, if possible, step into the shoes of
his Grace of Northumberland and lord it as loftily
as the best aristocrat among them. Compassionate,
therefore, should we stern lovers of equality be, and
as we have no hereditary titles in our happy land,
let us confine ourselves ~to a decent respect for wealth,
a deference which, being always accompanied with envy,
is far less dangerous than the old-world one for birth and
blood.
And yet, singular as it may seem, Myndert Van Horn
the hard-handed, was a favorite with the patrician
Archibald Home, ~tnd a most welcome visitor at the
Bloomingdale villa.
Thh 'must have been entirely owing to the sympathy
always existing between the honest, true, and single-
minded, for surely there was but little compatibility or


GARRET VAN HORN'.       233

232         ~I~RET VAN HORN,

* similarity of ideas between them. Both were dogitiatic
and prejudiced, and Myndert the democrat, who had
nothing of the courtier about him, never attempted
to disguise or withhold his antagonism to his host's
cherished views on society and its organization. I re-
member being much amused at Myndert's bluntness, on
one oceasion,.when Mr. Home was telling us of a famous
run he had with the Cambridgeshire hounds and do..
scribing the ludicrous exasperation of. a farmer when
the horses and dogs trampled through his young corn.
"Ah, sir, it's royal sport, and has contributed greatly to
our success as soldiers," concluded Mr. Home, "but
here, sir, in this country you are so absorbed in money-
making that you have no taste for such a manly and
heatliful exercise."
"Well, no," said Myndert, "itjs not exactly the taste
that's wanting, but it would hardly be safe. For if any
set of gentlemen took it into their heads to damage a
farmer's crops in that way, it is more than likely that at
a repetition of the amusement they would be arrested
by a rifle-bullet lodged in one of them."
"llumph," said Mr. Home, "perhaps so; there's no
limit to the lawlessness of your settlers as fostered by
your anarchical institutions."
Such conversations often led into arguments which
were conducted, on the side of Mi'. home, with a certain
degree of warmth and suppressed irritability, yet the
two invariably parted staunch friends, perhaps because
Mr. Home became after each debate the more conscious
of the pith of sense and pride of worth of his opponent,
and having but a mean opinion of the mental acquire-
ments of the sons of our wealthiest fati~ilies, he was the~

more pleased with the knowledge and vigorous intellect
of the unpretentious ship-wright.
* "Your brother, sir," said Mr. fiome to me, "is a man
of great abilities. Were he in Great Britain, sir, he
would without doubt attain a distinguished position.
But, sir, what opportunity is there here for an honest
man, however talented, when only the brawling dema-
gogue and political trickster can succeed? Aye, sir, it
is a great misfortune he is not a Scotobman or an Eng-
lishman. Look at the Napiers, sir, or Lord Brougham
-the greatest statesman probably of this or any other
age-rose from nothing, absolutely nothing. And I
'could point to scores of similar instances in the history
of my country. lie possesses too, what I have observed
to be totally wanting among American youths, even
among those belonging to what you. call your best
families, and that is force of chctrctcter. Your brother,
sir, is an exception. But look 'for an instant at the
young men who visit this house. What can they say-
what can they do? Some ask me invariably: 'How's
business, Mr. Home?' or if a steamer arrive I am
informed, not that there is a change of ministry or that
such a horse has won the Derby, but I am told that
'cotton's up,' or 'flour's down,' as if I didn't hear
enough about cotton and all that at the countin~-room,
and as if one couldn't sink the shop for a few moments
and talk of something else. And those who are not
engaged in mercantile pursuits, know even less and can
only talk about the pattern of their waistcoats, or the cut
of their trowsers. Take young Goldistone for instance,
who I am told belongs to one of y~iur 'oldest families,'
in fact, can trace his ancestry as far back as his great-


G  BET YAhi HOBt~~           2S5

grandfather, who fortunately for his descendants tilled a
cabbage garden somewhere about Wall street, ha-ha ~
I say, take young Goldistone who has received some
sort of degree from some college, well, sir, when I
imparted to him the other day the news that Her
Majesty had prorogued parliament, he actually asked me
what that was! and when I tried him on literature, and
asked him i1f he admired Kit North as a writer, he
replied~t~tAe had never heard of him! indeed he only -
found his tongue when he began talking some nonsense
to Lesbia about the trinkets on her chatelaine. Put such
an effeminate fellow as that astride a mettlesome hunter~
before a five-barred gate, or let him pull stroke oar in a
five-mile race, and what kind of a show would he make?
Indeed I find that among you here, all the stamina of
the nation, and all the physical manhood is confined to
the lower classes, while with us it is quite the reverse.
Why, sir, my elder brother Cuthbert Home, when a
young man and in London, was coming out of the Finish
one night with some friends when they were rudely
jostled by a party of pugilists. A row of course
ensued, and my brother was pitted against one who
turned out to be none other than the renowned Men..
doza. Cuthbert was an athletic fellow and an excellent
boxer, and drawing off his coat he set to in good style.
They sparred and fought for nearly an hour when the
watch interfered; both, it is true, were severely pun-
ished, but Mendoza candidly admitted that he had
never met in all his career with a neater or more effec-
tive hitter than my brother Cuthbert. What do you
say to that from a young fellow of fashion? how many
of youi~ young dandies could withstand such a bout?

Yes, I think, you must certainly admit that there is a
great lack of force of character among the young men
of this country."
I did not presume to deny it, but it struck me that
strength of character, as he understood it, was due rather
more to broad shoulders and well-developed biceps than
to any faculty of mind or effort of will; from which it
might also be inferred that Nyndert had ingratiated
himself with Mr. Home, as much by his stalwart presence
as by his good sense and well-stored mind.
Mr. I-home, it should be understood, was utterly igno-
rant of Myndert's love for his daughter, and had not the
remotest idea that his attentions meant anything more
than the common civilities of an acquaintance. Had he
had the slightest suspicion of the true state of affairs, he
would, immediately have interposed, for however much
he preferred Myndert's society to that of the throng of
vapid, glittering, pretentious, wealthy sparks who dan-
gled in the train of ~he young beauty, yet marriage
between her-the grand-daughter of Sir Allan Home
and Lord Marshmallow-and an educated well-to-do
artisan was entirely out of the range of possibilities.
Blind and irrefiective, indeed, must that father have
been, to imagine that any warm and free masculine
heart could resist the many charms of his beautiful
daughter; of that incomparable girl and masterpiece
of Nature. Not but that Lesbia Home had other than
~Aiy~ical attractions, for she also possessed those intel-
lectual ones which consist in an intimate acquaintance
with light literature, in the ability to classify flowers,
sketch prettily, speak Spanish and some French, and in
a tolerable knowledge of music. Not a piano-strummer


*2$6            GAI~I~1~T YA~ 1101W.                                                        cfABnET VAN HOi~.              237

was she, nor a shrieker of bravura, but a tasty, refined
drawing-room musician, with a good contralto voice.
We all thought her, too, exceedingly witty, but, as IL am
now writing in cool blood and with an even pulse, we
will say nothing about that.' At any rate, she certainly
was sensible and sprightly; extremely fond of society
and pleasure, and with such a magnet you will readily
conceive that Mr. Home's house was much frequented by
all the young men who were fortunate enough to obtain
~n admittance, and that none who obtained that privilege
ever escaped unscathed from the darts of the winged
archer.
And had Myndert attained any preference. over his
numerous rivals? This was puzzling to decide. She'
was always very amicable and gracious towards him,
and seemed well pleased with his society, yet how could
she possibly fancy so awkward and inelegant a man? IL
could not believe that such a fellow as my grave, ungain-
ly brother had found favor in those beautiful eyes. If
it be so, thought IL, it is but another instance of the
unaccountability and whimsicality of woman's taste.
But ih sooth, at that time, Miss Home's heart was as
impervious to the arrows of love as adamant, and pul-
sated in that direction only with the joy of gratified
vanity caused by new victims to her all-conquering
charms.
IL used Myndert to cultivate an acquaintance with the
Homes, but after I had acquired a sufficient intimacy IL
found his presence a great drawback to the pleasure of
my visits. Another impediment and bore was Mr.
home's fondness for whist. When present he would
invariably insist that Myndert and I should join him and

K
it

Mrs. Parking, the house-keeper, in a quiet rubber.
"Leave Lesbia," he would say, "to entertain those
jackanapes in the drawing-room. Myndert, you and I
and your brother will have a little quiet enjoyment in
the library." The library was very oozy, to be sure,
with great cushioned arm-chairs, a blazing fire of bitu-
minous coal, and our host'~ genuine Glenlivat or any other
beverage you might choose-and Mr. Home kept not
only an excellent ~vine-cellar but a ~vine-garret as well,
stowing the precious juices alow and aloft to give them
the temperature best -suited to their exotic healths-
but for all these comforts, we went there reluctantly
enough, and envied the jackanapes in 'the drawing-room.
Ii; however, there were no jackanapes to entertain,
Lesbian would take Mrs. Parking' hand, or Myndert's if
he were absent, and then 0 pleasure! she perchance
were my partner. Sometimes my boot wandering
beneath the .table would touch the snug gaiter that
enclosed her elegant foot, and once, but once, the gaiter
returned the pressure, gently, but it was intentional, for
IL perceived a flash of fun dance in her handsome eyes.
It takes but little to please a vain or con eited ma~n, and
this made me supremely happy for a month, and raised
me to the seventh heaven of hope. I was in better humor
with Myndert from that moment, and could well afford
to pity him, the poor fellow, who was indulging in such
absurd expectations; for in love, as in other matters, it
is easy for a successful man to be generous to the unsuc-
cessfuL
My visits to "The Maples" and my other recreations
hept me up until v'ery late, or rather very early hours, at

I


7

28

GAI~RET ~TA~ XORTh

I

GARRET VA~ ItO~T.

239

which Mr. Van Horn, with his old antipathy to having
his street-door kept on the latch and his suspicions of all
who were not in bed by ten o'clock, took umbrage and
reproved me as ff1 were a school-boy. "And now, sir,"
said he ia conclusion, "this has gone on too long andi~
you do not choose to abide by the regulations of my
household, the sooner you leave it, the better."
1, in the most independent manner, took him at his
word, and leaving the avuncular roof applied for lodg-
ings at Dr. Rose's boarding-house. The Doctor intro-
duced me to his landlady, a Mrs. Delaney, an Irish
widow, whose chief aim in existing was to convince an
incredulous world that she was an Englishwoman, and a
vastly genteel one at that. Buxom was the dame, and
most radiant in silks of many colors, with a small cap of
lace, bugh~s, and ribbons on the back of her dignified
head, and a big brooch enclosing a cameo likeness of
the defunct Delaney (who must have borne a wonderful
resemblance to RegiUns), shining like a shield on her
bosom's-.
superb abundance
Where a man .rnay base his head,"
as Mr. Browning sings.
"It's me custom always to require the bist of rifferince
from applicants, but in youi~ case, sir, I shall not dimand
it. Your being introjuiced be Doctor Rose, our mutual
frind, being all that's necessary in your favor and in me
confidence."
I bowed at this favorable~estimate of me, and,~ she con-
tinued with much majesty; "I'm iot at all compelled
nor yet have I the layste necessity for takin' borders

I

I

for heavens be thanked, Mr. Delaney, that's me late hus~
band that was, he lift me whin he died a competency,
but I'm so excadeingly fond of society, of gintale
.~ociety, and not having any relations in this country, I
cool less lonesome and less beraved with gintale society
about me. I'm. constantly obleeged to use me bist
indivors to kape me position and me occupation sacrit
from me family in England, as well as Mr. Delaney me
late husband's family in England, for they're all people
of sich distinction and sich gintality and sich bike aris-
tocracy, that the very ijeer that I was kapin' borders for
the sake of society, wud be so shocking to thim all that I
wudu't inform any of thim of it for the world."
I soon discovered that Mrs. Delaney's gentility con-
sisted mostly in jingling the keys of a piano in the last
stages of discordance, in screeching out sentimental
ballads, and in relating unauthentic anecdotes ~md remi-
niscences of the grand folks and the grand society she
used to frequent in England. The same proclivity
towards gentility was apparent at table, where the ser-
vice was majestic, the colored waiter ~in white cotton
gloves, and much parade about the courses, the finger
bowls, etc., but the fare was meagre and ill-cooked, so I
followed the Doctor's plan and took my meals as often as
possible at a restaurant~. The domestics, by the bye, wore
all colored people. For, as Mrs. Delaney said, "Servants
are sich plagues, but worse than all are thim dirty Irish,
which I rilly ebominate. You should see the tidy maids
we have in England, they're so nate and so gintale-
looking. It's ruby a pleasure to have them about one.
But thim Irish !--.thim horrid Papists! don't mention
thini I beg of you."


240         GARRET VAN HORN.                                         GARRET VAN HORN.        241

Mrs. Delaney evidently looked upon the Doctor with
kind and favoring glances. "He's so gentlemanly and so
gintale," she told me. "I-Low illigantly he sings Moore's
melodies. Did you iver hear him sing, 'Ah, b'iave me
if all thini endaring young charms?' It's delightful.
His whiskers, too, remind me so of Captain Molloy's
whiskers,. Captain Molloy married Mr. Delaney me
late husband's youngest sister Miss Mary, and he died in
the 1st Ingers (East Indies~, and his figure is so exactly
like Lord Gerald Galloway, whose country sate is just
beyant Mr. Delaney's uncle's country sate. And if there
is anything I do admire in a man it's a gintale figure."
The object of the widow's admiration was well aware
of it, and alive to the advantages of his position. He
found it profitable to foster her fancy, and in conse-
quence the boarders were constantly regaled with alter..
nate doses of the widow's affection and her piano-playing.
It was either "Pompey Ducklegs," "'Twere vain to tell
thee all I fe~l" (her favorite song), "Grand Java
March," or her billing and cooing with the fascinating
physician. What was it? Was it his whiskers, his
figure, or his voice? Or had he some potent philter,
some magical elixir? Perhaps so, fQr he was a skilful
chemist. Oil of rhbdium will attract rats; pigeons, they
say, fancy stockfish; horses, castor, etc., is there then
possibly any essence, other than those distilled by Lubin,
that will beguile the feminines? If so, Dr. Rose cer-
tainly possessed it, else how account for his success
where far handsomer fellows might have sighed in vain?
I had been so much more comfortable at home, than
I was at this boarding-house, that I rather regretted my

I

haste withUncle Garret, as I might hate effected a com-
promise had I not ridden quite so high a horse. Xot
that I dreaded his resentment or feared having offended
him, for I confidently believed that, in any event, he
never would completely disinherit me, and when such
an overladen tree fell some of the fruit could not fail
to roll at my~ feet. Aunt Jane, who had taken my
departure much to heart, offered her mediation, but she
was now so feeble, vacillating, and nerveless, That her
endeavors in my behalf only resulted in Mr. Van Horn's
taking a more decided stand, and refusing, not only to
recall me, but to hold any communication with me until
he should receive decided proofs of my repentance and
reformation. This I was not ready to comply with, not
feeling particularly guilty or conscience-stricken, and so
from that time forward, although I frequently visited
Aunt Jane, my intercourse with Mr. Van Horn was of
the briefest and most distant character.
This rupture occurred at an unfortunate moment, for
soon after I was thrown i~ore than ever on my aunt's
bounty owing to the loss of the sinecure I held in the
Gotham Trust and Banking Company. That institution,
after a short career of usefulness (to its directors), came
to air untimely end. Its bankruptcy fell on the unini-
tiated public like a bursting shell in a ball-room, for but
a month previous the shares were selling at a premium,
and a dividend of five per cent. on the capital had been
paid to the shareholders.
Mr. Van Horn met with no loss from the failure, for
months before, that astute capitalist had, after catechiz-
lug Mr. Treasurer Pennefether concerning some traii-
sactions of the company, concluded to withdraw his
11

241

240


ll~
It
iii
Ii
ii
if
ii
ii
It
II

G4RET VAN &amp;ORN.

influence and, investments from it. The transactions
which decided him. to take this step were not those of
the Western lands which he had recommended, but
certain. loans of a somewhat similar character made to
other parties, on what he considered insufficient security.
The truth was that he began to mistrust Mr. Mickle~
thwaite, although until now he had accepted him as a man
of integrity. True, Micklethwaite had bribed the legis-
lators with Mr. Van Horn's knowledge and tacit sanc-
tion; true, the counsellor had in his legal capacity
certified in the most accommodating spirit to the value
and validity of his patron's doubtful titles to the worth-
less Western lands, yet for all, Mr. Van florn, with the
visual dullness that usually attends selfish introspection,
could see no moral divergence in those little arrange-
ments, and was surprised, actually surprised, when he
learnt~ that the lawyer had been repeatedly bought by
others. "i'll wash my hands of the whole affair. I'll
not rh~k my reputation or money with this concern any
longer," was Mr. Van Horn's decision after several con-
enlt~itions with the treasurer, and when the latter had
demonstrated that the assets of the company being
almost valueless the shares were consequently entirely so.
Whereupon, with the sagacity that seldom deserted him,
Mr. Van Horn proceeded quietly to rid himself of these
worthless shares while they still commanded a bonus on
the Stock II~change. The other directors, with the
prescience that directs rats to leave a crumbling tene-
ment, followed his example, and in. this way the ever
generous public relieved these financiers by e~cchai~ging -
gold for snudry ~scraps of prettily engraved paper. The
swindled were it~any~ Some able to bear their ~

%~
-V

GARRI~T VAN HOnY.

248

some not. A widow, a retired merchant, orphans, a
shrewd speculator, all shared alike. But mark the con-
sistency of our wily deacon! Justly indignant, was he,
at the lawyer's venality when that venality subserved
not the Van Horn interests, and set Micklethwaite down
as a corrupt man who would cheat on any advantageous
occasion, while, in the very height of this choler at all
knavery, we find him slily selling stock he knew to be
worthless, in fact, uttering base coin to unsuspecting
victims. Such are the common results of inability to
discern large-sized .beams in our optics keen, while we
can see with great distinctness, motes in others' eyes.
Self-deception-always self-deception! Would that our
looking-glasses could reflect our ethical appearance as
faithfully as they do our physical; though unfortunately,
even as in the latter instance vanity blinds us to our
ugliness, would conceit in the former hide our moral
imperfections. In fact, we are all as well satisfied with
our consciences and our moral condition as we are with
the color of our eyes, or the shape of our noses; neither
may be absolutely perfect, yet, they are as good as our
neighbor's at least, if not better. IDid we sedulously
pursue the properest study of mankind, the study of
ourselves, and learn to know our faults ~ well as we
know the shortcomings of others, we would inevitably
become less selfish, and consequently more virtuous and
happy. But alas! how difficult a task it is for man, vain
man, blinded by conceit, allured by temptation and indu-
rated by egotism, to know himself!

24a


[I

GARRET VAN I1O1~N.

CHAPTER XV,
A. JXEOLAI~ATtox.

Ii

I

C,

These hours were indeed hours in elysium, at least all
those when I was alone with her. If Myndert were
present, or worse still, any of that multitude of empty-
pated fops, vain would-be wits, affected, wealthy'
noodles, who came so oftefi to smirk, and grin, and pay*
her silly compliments, I was in an altogether opposite
state from one of elysium, for she would not only listen
to their vapid nonsense, but neglect nw entirely and
appear utterly innocent of my torment! There were
between twenty and thirty gentlemen in the habit of
calling, and who were more or less taken with her.
Half of them I heartily detested, and five, at least, I
could have slaughtered. One, indeed, was beneath
hatred, and even contempt. That was Gansevoort
Goldistone, a little, thin, sickly whifi'et of twenty, that
Lesbian could easily have cuffed to pieces. He was heir
to the largest estate in the city, and was continually
bragging of the number of pretty girls that were going
crazy after him, and telling us how his mamma had
bidden him beware of them. The fatuous wretch
believed, I think, that he could have had Miss Home by
the mere casting of his handkerchief. She, however,
made a butt of him, and said ~uoh malicious things to
his face, that any one of sense would have been abashed
and hurt; but luckily for him his thick numskull proved
a buckler to all her satirical shafts. It was very
annoying, though, that she should notice such a fool,
or even admit him to her presence; and I could
joyfully have brayed him beneath my boot-heel like
an insect; but vanity was her weakness; she was
insatiable of homage, and would have accepted atten-
tions and flattery from any, from an idiot even, or

245

'Ii

J WAS a frequent visitor now at "The Maples." Apart
from the attraetion4n-chief it was a very pleasant
place to while away the summer afternoons. Behind
the. house the lawn sloped to the river bank, on
which breezy spot was a shady kiosk, commanding a
beautiful view of the majestic Hudson and bosky Wee~
hawken. Here Lesbia would often Sit to sew or read,
in company perhaps with Myndert, who sat in devotion
mute like the Laird of Dumbiedikes, or with me, whose
admiration took a loquacious turn. Towards evening,
Mr. home having finished his after-dinner nap would
join us, and we would have cool bonny-clabber, pow-
dered with cinnamon, or pines sliced and soaked in old
South-side Madeira, or lesbian's favorite dainty vanilla
ice-cream, a mould of which I often ordered from
Thompson and Weller's, for her especial gratification.


$1

246

GARRET VA~ HORN.

a tatterdemajjon, as the Duchess of Devonsiure did
from a dustman.
And how did I progress with my suit? But sk~wly.
In truth it was impossible for me to discover whether
Miss Home regarded me with more favor than my
numerous rivals, although I flattered myself she secretly
did. Why should not she? Without being actually
an Adonis, I was not by any means destitute of manly
beauty. At least, was I as good4ooking as any of her
other admirers. The labor I had undergone as a sailor
and a soldier had given me a well-knit, active, erect
frame, and a healthy bronzed face. I was a dexterous
and graceful dancer (thanks to my apprenticeship at the
Chaunii~re), and could rein a horse and sit one, better
than nine men out1 of ten, and t!mese, I knew, were great
accomplishments in Miss Home's estimation. I was also
well versed in light literature, or rather, I read up inde-
fatigably since I had made her acquaintance, and as I
dressed after Dr. Rose-~-and he was acknowledged
an unexceptionable model in that respect-why, I
fancy, that take it altogether, no more eligible young
fellow visited "The Maples." And yet-and yet,.-.~..
whenever I tried in earnest tones to approach the sub-
ject uppermost in my thoughts, she repelled it with a
mirthful banter that always disconcerted me, though I
certainly was neither diffident nor timid. My praises,
however, sh~ invariably accepted with avidity; in fact,
I was but a devotee before a shrine, burning incense,
and adoring an imperious idol. Yet I found pleasure
even in this; pleasure in wearing her chains, and in the
privilege of serving her.
They walked and rode much at "The Maples." An

GAT~RET VAN ]IOR~.

247

early canter is alWays delightful, and it was the more so
froni the, pleasure, I had in holding Miss Home's fine
foot for an instant in my hand. There were steps and a
block to mount by, to be sure, but we preferred the
courtly way. Then away we dashed, while the grass
was yet dewy, and the air fragrant with the breath of
morning. She was a good horsewoman, and looked
gracefully natty in her dark well-cut habit, gauntlets,
and whip. She was so splendid too, after the exercise,
and well the witch knew it as she came in palpitating,
and presenting so glorious a contrast of glossy dark
hair, dazzling scarlet face, and snow-white teeth; and
all so glowing, so rich, so velvety, and so brilliant, that
it were worth a hard trot of a hundred leagues to
behold the delectable sight!
"0 Lesbian !" said I, one morning, enraptured; "y6u
are so beautiful, so far surpassing all others, that I fairly
worship you! Worship you as neveit yet divinity was
worshipped-~Vith every throb of my heart, and every
longing of my soul !"
Her eyes sparkled, her bosom dilated with exuberant
pleasure at my eager, earnest words; hut before I could
follow this attack, up must come Mr. Home, puffing like
an asthmatic grampus. "Bless my heart-I'xn corn-
pletely out of breath-how you young ones do go it-
one would think you were following the hounds." And
further sparking, that morning, was out of the question.
I did not lose my appetite, though, if I was in love, for
the havoc I made with Mr. Home's English breakfasts,
his mufl~ns and bloaters, grilled bacon and marmalade,
including that abominable "breakfast tea," was an
admonishment to dyspeptic individuals.

(/


248           GARRET Y~&amp;~ HORN~P                                             ~~ARRET VAN HOflN.          249

Love, that gentle madness, analytically speaking, is
an emotion that derives its zest from tl~e sudden alter-
nation of pain and pleasure, it imposes on the lover.
Anon the sighing swain is raised by a smile to the
highest pinnacle of ecstasy, and as quickly is he precipi..
tated by a frown to the deepest depths of despair. lie
is either ice or lire, and the transition is constant, until,
perhaps, the honeyed cup he is quaffing, like the craftily
spiced draughts of the poisoner, leaves a corrodent.
~ot that any such dire result befell me, thanks to my
abundant stock of self-eGuceit, and sweet, unalloyedly
sweet and blissful, were the moments when I sat at the
feet of my goddess, and drank in the low clear melody
of her voice. In the drawing-room, where the dropped
curtains excluded the garish light, with Lesbia at the
piano, and I, seated by the songstress, watching her
gaysome and marvellous face. See her now! animated
by the subtle power of music. Look at that well-
defined, harmonious profile; there is nothing seraphic,
nothing celestial about it, on the contrary the small
smooth nose, the round red lips, and slight doulAo chin
melting into a fall snowy throat, tell of the true daugh-
ter of Eve, who loves this world and its pleasures with
all the ardor of vigorous youth, yet, if it be of too
earthly a type to please the, admirers of the saint-like,
dove-eyed, diaphanous class of damsels it nevertheless
outspeaks a tender loving heart; a heart thaf could
prompt its possessor to visit the death-bed of a lowly
sister, and succor a helpless infant. Happy, indeed, will
he be on whom is centered such wealth of warm afi'ec-
tions! Could I but be that one! Half my life would I
gladly give for fame enough to win her admiration, etc.

r

etc. etCA A multitude of similar thoughts, of vain
desires, and preposterous schemes would cross my mind
in such moments as I sat listening, while she sang some
old ballad that I had heard perhaps a thousand times
befolie. But what freshness would her pure voice infuse
into the stale, sapless strains! Occasionally, as a great
favor, she would sing for me an aria of Bellini's or
Rossini's, a thing she never did. in company. 'Her voice
was powerful enough to have filled the auditorium of
La Scala; but she had the rare sense, in a young lady,
to subdue it to the dimensions of the draWing-room;
and how deliciously sl~e rendered that unparalleled
Uh~&amp; voce ~O00 fa I"
Hardly had she finished singing when grasping her
hand between both of mine, I exclaimed with all the
ardor of a light comedian-
"Teach me half the gladness
That thy brain must know,
Such melodious madness
From my lips would flow,
The world! would listen then
As I am listening now."
"Very pretty, indeed," said she. "And so apropoS.
You've been reading Shelley, I see-Go on Mr. Van
Horn."
"Go on what ~" said I, a little embarrassed.
"Go on. Continue. Recite the remainder."
"That's all I know," said I, bluntly.
"I suspected as much. A little premeditated compli-
ment of yours. A standing 'quotation applicable to any
11~


250          GARRET VA~ HORY.

GARRET VAN iioi~N.          251

lady that sings. Laura has heard it, I'll warrant, and
many others, no doubt."
"Miss Home, am I a fool ?" said I, quite nettled.
She looked at me in such a quizzical way that we both
began laughing, during which a loosened braid fell on
her shoulder. Unable to resist the temptation I pressed
*the tress to my eager lips. "You simpleton, see how'
you've disarranged my hair," said she, rising from the
piano~stool and going before a pier-glass. But I was
not to be so easily baffled, and taking a seat beside her
on the sofa, I artfully strove to lead the conversation
into topics congenial to my feelings. It is easy enough
to drift into a declaration when both parties are willing,
but, when the lover is ardent and the merciless fair bent
solely on amusing herself at her suitor's expense, the
affair becomes a difficult and provoking task.
I tried to enlist her confidence and solve a lingering
doubt. "Tell me, Lesbia, do you love my bi'other ?"
"Tell me, Master Garret, is not that question rather
cool and pointed? Icicle-like ?"
"No-.but tell me, Lesbia, do you ?"
"Do I! Amideinented, pray ?"
* "Then you do not love him ?"
"Are you in earnest, kind questioner ?"
"Earnest! never more so in my li&amp;."
"Dear me, this is becoming amusing. And so you
really are in earnest ?"
"Lesbia, answer me-won't you? Don't keep me in
cruel suspense. Let me know, if I am pursuing a
shadow ?"
"There are several reasons, charming sir, why I
should not gratify your inquisitiveness. For, should I

answer your questions in the a4lirmative, it might occa-
sion ill-feeling between you, which I would not have
occur for the world, and again, did I deny a partiality for
your estimable brother it might deprive me of a never-
failing source of amusement."
"Amusement! what amusement ?"
"The amusement of observing the many little mani-
festations of fraternal regard which you exhibit towards
him in my presence. They are so diverting."
"Miss Home, I pray you don't jest with me."
"Mr. Van Horn, I'm not jesting, I assure you. You
asked me certain questions which, to say the truth, are
rather beyond the pale of the admitted curiosity of a
friend, and I, with my usual good-nature, endeaVored to
answer as well as I couV, and now, instead of being
grateful and pleased, you assume an injured air. To
oblige you further, I will confess with becoming bash-
fulness that I-esteem your brother as a true gentleman,
a little avaricious, perhaps, but for all a gentleman in
every sense of the word. Did you know that last
Christmas, Myndert bought me a beautiful diamond
ring, but fat her, who was present, would not permit me
to accept so valuable a gift. I don't think Myndert ~t
all regretted substituting a dollar fan for the ring. Not
that I think any the less of the present or of the donor,
but unfortunately I can't find it possible to admire him.
in the least. 1-Le always dresses in such exceeding bad
taste and has no ear for music. Think of his falling
asleep during the performance of Fidelio, Beethoven's
Fidelio! father nodded off first and M~ndert followed
suit-a bass and a baritone sn&amp;re-until I had to rap
their knuckles with my opera-glass. Wasn't it outra.


2o2         GARRET VAN HORN.

GARRET VAN HORN.        253

goons? flat Mynd~ert's agood soul for all, even if he does
dress odiously. He's a handsomer man than you, Master
Garret, and not half so conceited, that you will certainly
admit."
"Then Lesbia,7t I exclaimed, "thank heaven! you do
not love him !"
Describing love scenes is much like describing the,
~a~or of last year's strawberries, and though those pas-
sages are as white stones on the rugged road of life, yet
are they incomparably stupid to the unconcerned. There
is such a ridiculous sameness about them; prince and
peasant, wise and simple, all act alike beneath the spells
of the divine passion. It is therefore consoling to
reflect that, however absurd it may have been, Solomon,
for instance, would have done precisely ~s I did under
similar circumstances. Dropping on one knee in the
time-honored attitude, I poured forth a lava-like flood
of rapturous words and endearing titles; breathed vows
of eternal constancy; asserted solemnly, and sacredly,
and mendaciously, that she was the first and only one of
her sex that I had ever loved or even admired; covered
her hand and rings with kisses; implored her to be
mine, and then, grown audacious, dared to encircle her
elastic waist and press my lips to the dainty cheek.
She yielded for a second, just one second of ecstasy,
then rising abruptly from my clasp, exclaimed in a
rather angry tone, "Mr. Van Horn, you are becoming
insolent !"
A silence of some minutes ensued. Lesbian at the
window, and I feeling as if it would be a great relief and
merited punishment to be rammed in a mortar and shot
off for a bom1c~. Finally, in a feeble voice, I apologized

hoped I hadn't offended-begged forgiveness, etc.
etc., when Miss home, who had been suppressing a laugh
at my contrite and piteous tone, suddenly, and to my sur-
prise, turned towards me, and cordially extending her
hand, bade me moderate my transports of admiration for
the future and behave like a sane man. This, metaphor-
ically speaking, cold water dashed over me served but
to increase my flame, and I left, perhaps more violently
in love with Miss home than ever.
The reader will recollect that on my visit to Miss
Ludlow in Connecticut, I recommended to her aunt,
Mrs. Hobby, as the best method of dispelling her nieces
absurd fancy for a conventual life, to engage the young
lady to spend the following winter in New York. She
did so, and Laura came to stay with her aunt, Mrs.
Van Horn. So effective was the remedy I had sug-
gested, that, crc she had been a month in the city, she
had so far regained her taste for a worldly existence as
to fall in love with a tenor at the Astor Place Opera
House~ and furthermore, she had become so fascinated
with the dr~unatic art as to announce confidentially to
her friend Miss Home, her intention of turning actress.
Indeed, she actually proceeded to take lessons from a
la~if~r who professed to instruct aspirants to histrionic
fame, and frightened poor Aunt Jane severely, who came
inopportunely into h~r room, one day,~ when Laura,
with her hair hanging down her back was ranting, and
brandishing a pair of scissors in a very insane way.
But she was so unmercifully quizzed by Lesbia Home
and me about this new notion, and hurt herself so in
practising "falls," that she finally relinquished it.


25A4

GARRET VAN HORN.

Great was her delight, though, when the cards came
inviting her to a masquerade ball at the Homes'. here
was an opportunity to don one of those quaint and
splendid habiliments inhibited by the sober and sombre
decorum of the present day. But what costume should
she choose? That important question perplexed her
greatly for a fortnight, until she reduced her choice to
Norma, or Pauline Desehappelles; between these two
she wavered so, that she was at last obliged to defer to
Dr. Rose's taste. He suggested a hooped-brocade,
with powder and patch ~ Ia Pompadour, as most be..
coming to her style of beaut~r. I was to appear as a
marquis, the most suitable dress for a well-constructed
young fNl~xv with a good leg and an easy carriage. All
sorts of precautions had to be taken to keep the exact
nature ~of the entertainment from Uncle Garret's know-
ledge, who would otherwise have certainly prevented
Laura from going, as he flrn~1y believed a masquerade
to be something akin to a Tartarean revel. Of course,
he never attended parties of any kind; but Mrs. Van
Horn, aroused from her apathy by Laura's preparations,
declared that nothing short of a serious contingency
should proven( her attendance, as she had never wit-
nessed anything of the kind.
.~When I came to' escort the ladies on the appointed
evening, I was much surprised to see Doctor Rose pre-
l)ared to' accompany us. This turn of things did not.
please me at all. lie was not acquainted with the
Homes, and had tried on several occasions to obtain an
htroductiou to them through -me, which 1, for reasons
of my own, had managed to evade; and now~ thoiitgh
he mad~ same show of an excuse about Mrs. Van Horn's

K

25

GARRET VAN HORN.

having invited him to go, I could see very well that he
felt conscious of having successfully over-reached m~ at
last. I was so annoyed at this, that I hardly spoke one
word during the ride from University Place to Bloom-
ingdale.
The idea of the masquerade originated with Lesbia,
and Mr. Home, who never even dreamt of denying his
darling daughter anything, or of opposing her wishes
in any way, entered heartily into th9 project, the more
so as he was always pleased at any opportunity to en-
tertain his large circle of friends and acquaintances. So
the usual preparations were made at "The Maples."
The carpets of the drawing-rooms were taken up and
the floors chalked, plain rout-seats replaced the cumber-
some furniture, and nearly all the plants in the con-
servatory underwent decapitation, much to Cluny the
gardener's disgust, who, holding similar social views to
my respected uncle, Mr. Van Horn, looked upon the
forthcoming party as a sort of drag-net of old Clootie's,
who would inevitably make a fine haul of souls on that
evening; a reflection, it must be admitted, which was
certainly some comfort to a non-participant.
On our arrival we were received with the warm web
come characteristic of the family, for if there was any-
thing' Mr. Home prided himself on, it was his hospitality.
"I'm so sorry, Mr. Home, that Mr. Van horn couldn't
come," said Aunt Jane; "but you kno~i~ how lie is,
Lesbian, dear, this is Doctor Rose that I solicited the
invitation for. Doctoy Rose-MiSs home. Garry, I
believe, you have seen before ;" and after the greetings
and introduction we retired to put on our masks.


256         GARRET VAN HORN.

The guests were mostly English and Scotch, even the
clerks of Home, MeLeod &amp; Co. being invited-a breach
of etiquette, by the bye, unknown in our more refined
American circle&amp;-.-and a remarkably hearty, red-faced
set of folks they all were. Rugged too, and unversed
in the minute points of' social courtesy, and I doubt if
Mr. Home would have filled his drawing-rooms with
such in. his own country. But away from the fhther-
land patriotism increases.
There were Highianders enough among the characters
to form a body-guard for Roderick Dhu. You could
see representatives from almost all the clans, and the
host himself appeared when all were assembled, in the
picturesque garb of ancient Gaul, as a Duinh6-wassel, a
stout, full-girthed one with kilt, cross-gartered hose,
and blue.bonuet and eagle's feather crowning his sonsie
red face. The long claymore, which his uncle Colonel
Douglas Home had wielded at Corunna, hung by his
side; but it rather impeded his walk and he soon put it
away. He talked much "braid Scot," to Aunt Jane's
great perplexity, and was marvellously spry in the dance,
reeling it featly as young Lochinvar with aged dames in
white curls, aiA sashes of the Stuart or Macgregor
tartan.
Miss Home, contrary to her father's desire to have
her appear as Flora MacDonald, and wear a huge cairn-
gorm brooch, was simply enrobed in a black domino.
She flirted much with a Captain Macheath, a little con-
sumptive crusader, and a cowled monk in sandal shoon
whose curly whiskers and furtive eyes betrayed him.
There was Gustavus Kemtop, Mr. Kemtop's second son,
as a d~1~ardeur, who was continually whispering in the

F

GARRET VAN HORN.              257
ear of the leau masque stale witticisms, and flattery
borrowed from the Pierrots and Titis of the Paris car-
nival balls. The refined coquette hiding so many
charms in an ugly silk cloak, who could mistake her?
for what other maiden could match that chin and. throat,
whose tint was the more dazzling in contrast with the
black velvet leo.
Slmdy Fraser, a red-haired gentleman, created much
merriment as Bailie Nicol Jarvie, ~nd a tall lady in
spectacles was very imposing as a Wattean shepherdess.
Eugene Kemtop (Mr. Kerntop's third son) came as a
bandit, and his sister Olivia, as the bandit's bride. Most
noticeable and resplendent of all, however, was a Nour-
* mahal, gorgeous in pearl and gold. This was Miss
Cora Goldistone, sister to Gansevoort Goldistone the
consumptive crusader, Another paladin, a tall robust
fellow with bristling whiskers, and very uneasy in his
armor of proof and his starched Byron collar, was
Myndert Van Horn, whose brother, the marquis in
maroon~velvet-having evidently made up his mind
to be misanthropic that evening-stood apart with
folded arms, watching the black domino and her group
of dangers with a jaundiced eye.
The lion of the evening was the Hon. Clarence hay,
a cousin of Mr. Home's, and a scion of the noble house
of Marshmallow. He was a tall, heavy, stolid, hand-
some fellow, with moist red lips and a complexion like
a milk-maid's. The lion wore neither fancy dress nor
mask. lie looked about him. for a few moments with
as supercilious an expression as he could assume, until
much fatigued by this exertion, h~ withdrew to the


268.

GARRET VAN HORN.

library, and to wine and cigars. "Tenth don't dance,
cli? Jlazeed already, eh, Clarence? Sorry for that,
my boy," said Mr. Home, who was scurrying about
with his loo in his hand. "Lesbia's been promising you
to so many charming young ladies." But the lion was not
to be seduced away by any possible attraction from his
crystal beaker of champagne.
The monk made all manner of fun of everybody,
much to the black domino's delight who could not help
laughing at his ill-natured remarks and malicious droll-
ery. How he quizzed poor lean Miss Ken', the specta-
cled shepherdess, and fat Mrs. Little the dowdy English-
woman with her outrageous jewelry, and puny Goldis-
tone, staggering under his helmet, and the sheepish clerks
of Home, McLeod &amp; Co., who hung about the doors
and looked as if they had been merely invited to look
on; and the awkward knight of St. John with the bris-
tling whiskers, and perhaps, e~ren the maroon marquis, for
the black domino east a mirthful glance at him, and bit
her lip to suppress a smile when she saw lie had detected
her. Our marquis flushed hot enough to scorch his
mask, for there Was nothing he dreaded like ridicule;
and shortly after, to increase his angei', up must come
that shuffling, weak-kneed crusader to take with an
easy, aggravating, impudent familiarity, the black domi..
no's arm as the Company promenaded to the supper-
room, and the band played, "March-march Ettrick and
Teviotdale."
Indignant marquis! he tried to smirk as he led in
Miss Olivia Kemtop, but his blood was boiling and he
could joyfully have spitted the monk and the crusader
~ith his rapier. At supper, lie did nothing but fume and

GARRET VAN hORN.

259

fret, for Miss Home was apparently so happy, and
wanted so much attention from that little pest Ganse-
voort Goldistone, and the little pest seemed so conceit-
edly pleased at his good fortune, that wheu he reached
across the marquis to demolish a nougat pyramid, that
nobleman did, with malice pretense, drive his elbow into
the crusader's right eye which caused him to drop some
nougat into the spectacled shepherdess' lace lap. There
was glowering on all sides, and much suppressed merri-
ment in Miss Home's face, arid after supper, when the
guests had all returned to the dancing-hall, the crusader
received word that a gentleman was waiting outside to
speak to him. Somewhat surprised, he obeyed the call,
and there on the lawn, at a little distance from the
house, he saw in the clear moonlight the enraged mar-
quis standing eager for the fray.
"Van-why Van-did you send for me? What'~ up,
eh ?" inquired Goldistone.
"What's up, isn't the question," said the marquis,
fiercely. "1 want you to apologize instantly, sir, for the
insult you offered to-to-Miss Kerr."
"Why-what insult ?"
"Don't jest with me, sir, oV I'll flog you within an
inch of your life-you little monkey! How dare you
throw that trash on a lady's dress without apologiz-
ing?"
"I didn't mean to~ Van, you hit me in the eye, you
know, I couldn't help it."
"Down on your knees, you beggar, down I" cried the
marquis bra~ndishing his rapier savagely over poor Gold-
istone's head who, white with fear, dropped instantly on
his knees. Fortunately at this juncture, Mr. Home, who

1~


260              ii~i2 VA~ HORN.
had been sutumoned by old Cluny, arrived in th~e to
prevent further scandal. "Gent1emen-~gentIe~~11~
what is the meaning of all this? Mr. Van Horn you are
forgetting yourself. Come gentlemen, shake hands and
go into the house."
The marquis, brought to a sense of his ridiculous and
disgracefiul position, took Goldistone's proffered hand
and very much abashed slunk back into the house.
The guests were now amusing themselves with
tableaux. One end of the spacious drawing.room had
been curtained off for the display, and Dr. Rose acted
as stage-manager. There was a scene from the Arabian
Nights with a fat gentleman as a bearded pasha, sitting
cross-legged, smoking a narghil6, and fanned by Miss
Goldistone the Nourmahal. The next was Miss Scott,
as the White Lady of Avenel; after which came "The
Confessional," with Laura as the fair penitent and Dr.
Rose as the priest; and lastly, as the bouquet, the cur-
tain rose on a beautiful picture entitled the "Dying
Guerilla." This was very pretty and effective. On a
couch lay the wounded man, his escop~ta falling from
his feeble gra~p, while a girl put a cup to his lips and a
friar standing by upheld a crucifix. True, the soldier,
instead of being a stalwart man was personated by Gold-
istone the small, but the friar was good, and nothing
could possibly be more beautiful than the well-dressed
and too high-bred looking Spanish peasant-girl, for it
was Lesbia Home, in trim blue kirtle and clo~e-fitting
basquina; in white silk stockings and tiny black satin
slipj)ers, an attire which audaciously permitted the dis-
play of much superb roundness of limb. How they all
stared at this new phase of Miss Home's beauty! The

GARRET VAN HORN

gentlemen, tor their part, were so well pleased with this
tableau that they could have stayed and admired it till
morning. But the ruthless curtain fell, dancing was
resumed, and whist-playing began. The uncomfortable
Knight of St. JoIm was lugged off by Mr. Home to a
card-table as a partner for Miss Helen Cameron, an
elderly Gaelic maiden, and an undoubted descendant of
the celebrated Lochiel. Now, the men were gayer
and the ladies less haughty. One buckish youth, clerk
of Home, McLeod &amp; Co., bold with wine, adventured
to ask his employer's daughter to dance, but was speedily
brought to his senses by her cool, polished refusal. As
the hours advanced, the dancing flagged, and the men
slipped off one by one to the library, where there was
much boisterous fun and a great consumption of hot-
water, loaf-sugar, and smoky usquebaugh. And Mr.
Home, who would have done anything to please his
guests from dancing a strathspey to standing on his
head, kept urging them all to drink, "lout man, you're
na' fon yet," he would say to Geordie Grant or Jock
Mackenzie, as ~if nothing short of their being "fon,"
could make them comfortable. He was constantly send-
ing his compliments and a tumbler of scalding toddy
to some Mrs. Stirling or Mrs. Farquharson in the card-
room, and bidding all beware of too much sugar as the
intoxicating properties of the mixture lay entirely in
that ingredient-a joke he repeated at least a score of
times with infinite merriment to himself, He jeered
unmercifully those degenerate sons of Scotia, who pre-
ferred the sparkling Sillery to the barley bree, but the
degenerates only laughed and said champagne was good
enough for them, and drank as only Gaels and drouthy

L


GARRET YA~ IIORNT.                                                                 263
GARRET VA~ HOJtN.

shieldss can drink, bumpers innumerable to each other's
health.
By this time our frigid Honorable had, through the
genial influence of smoke and grape-juice, thawed, and
become condescendingly confidential with th~ Knight
qf St. John, and as they sat together they were fast
getting as fou and unco' happy as Tam O'Shanter and
Souter Johnny in the picture over the mantel-piece.
The Honorable Clarence informed lVlyndert, in a
hu~ky voice, that Yew York was a deuced low and slow
place, but that London was quite the reverse, and he
explained with much prolixity and iteration the diver-
sions of chaffing cabbies, kicking over baked-tatur
stands, and milling coal-heavers, wherein consisted in
his opinion the superiority of the latter city. "Bigodd,
sjr, therQ's no amusement nor society for a gentleman in
the States. The other evening, sir, I dined at the con-
s4ate and as we were returning home, sir, rather late,
Buliwinkle and I, sir-you know Uullwinkle, of course,
li~'~ old Shoddy's nephew-~--you know. We called him
old Shoddy ever since he sold that 'bominable old
screw tQ Captain Paddy when the-the 42nd Foot were
at Oorfu-.yowve heard, all about that, IL dessay, so I
Won7tf repeat it, l~ut there's a good story about Pad-.
that's the way we always used to call Paddy, you know
-there's a good story about him which I mean to
tell you when we get a little leisure. Well, as I was
sayi~ig, it was rather late when Bull and I, that's BuIl~
winkle-.whe~ Bull and I-or rather Bull laid me two to
one I couldigt knock the lamp off a post at thirty paces
with a paving stone in three shies, 'Done,' said I. So I
paced off the distance, you know, and then I looked for

K'

a stone, and then I let fly. First shot missed, and the
stone went slap through a window blind. Next shot, I
came within-well F should say, I came within-within
two feet. Now, you see I had but one more shy so I
took pre~~iouS good aim and I fired, and-bang! went
the lamp into bits. By this time, you know, up came a
bobby who made himself rather ridiculous, so that in
s~lfrespect I was obliged to floor him. Then, you see,
theb eggar rapped aWay with his bludgeon, until finally,
three or four more bobbies came to the rescue. Now,
says I, to II~u1lwinkle, says I "-~---
"Come-come-gentlemen," said Mr. Home, break-
ing in upon them, "this is egotistic. Join the ladies-
join the ladies."
"Stop a bit," said hay, gripping him by the arm and
forcing him into a chair; ~ I was telling this gentleman
here-Mr.-Mr. -; I was telling this gentleman a
capital story about little Bullwinkle-you know Bull-
winkle, well enough, eh?" and Mr. Home resigning
himself with patient submission was forced to listen,
while Hay recommended his tale introducing elaborate
episodes about old Shoddy and Captain Paddy, with a
verbosity that would fill three chapters to report.
But where is the discontented marquis in maroon-
velvet, whom the sagacious reader has doubtless recog-
iiised as his very humble servant, Garret Van Horn?
While the rest of the company are still in the height of
enjoyment we shall find him in the hat-room preparing
to leave. The fact was, that being in a perfect rage all
that evening-I took the first opportunity to escape and
return home. Several things had contributed to anger
me. Doctor Rose's presence was one. Not that I was

268


~64          GARJ~ET V~A~ ROR~.                                                                   265

jealo~ts of him, for nobody in their senses could prefer
him to me, I having greatly the advantage both in age
and looks; but I did not relish the idea of his having
made the acquaintance of the Homes, for he might
become too constant a visitor at "The Maples" to
please me. He had tried to quiz me, too, I was certain,
and I never would forgive him for that~ I was indig..
nant, also, at Aunt Jane; at Lesbia; at that detestable
imp, Qoldistone; and lastly, at myself, partly for
having engaged in a silly quarrel, and chiefly for having
sacrificed a pair of handsome whiskers to appear in con-
gruity with that tom-fool marquis' costume, In this
savage mood, I determined not to wait for Laura and
Aunt Jane, but to leave them to Doctor Rose's escort,
and to walk home alone as the best means of allaying
my excited feelings. It was a freezing night, and but-
toning my overcoat tight and lighting a cigar I sallied
forth. On I trudged, sucking fiercely at the roll of
burning tobacco until, its~ soothing properties having
somewhat abated my choler, I began to feel rather cool
about my thinly-clad legs, and was glad to accept the
invitation of a man in a buggy who stopped to offer me
"a lift." He looked rather hard at my three.cornered hat
and knee~breeches, but made no comments or inquiries.
He was a good-looking, xvell dressed man, with fur
collar to his coat, fur driving-gloves, and was smoking,
like myself. I said~ as I was drawing the buffalo-robe
over, my knees, that it was very cold.
"Nothin' else," he replied, laconically.
I tried again a few moments after to draw him into
conversation, but with no better success. He was evi-
dently a man of few words and little curiosity. So we

4 4
(

both remained occupied with our own thoughts, which
suited me about as well. I noticed my companion had
a long scar on one cheek, and from his keen face, LDQW-
jug appearance, and clever handling of his fast trotter,
I came to tIle conclusion that he was one of the class
denomhi~ted "sporting men."
We soon came to the pavements and went down
roadwaya* At the nearest crossing to my destination
I descended from the waggon, arid thanked the driver
for the accommodation he had afforded me.
"All right. Take care of yourself," said he, in return.
I replied that I should, by all means, endeavor to do so,
and we parted.
On arriving at my boarding-house I was rather sin'-
prised to see the hall-lamp alight. When I turned the
latch-key and entered, Mrs. Delaney came forward:
"Oh," said she, with a simper, "I thought it was the
Doether. And have ye had a pleasant evening, Mr.
Van Horn? And how did ye enjye yourself? And wont
ye walk into the parlor, plase? Do, I've something to
say to ye."
So I threw off my coat, pulled an armchair by the
parlor grate, and prepared to listen to the landlady's
revelations.
She began by observing that her health was fast
giving way, and that her household cares were wasting
her to a shadow (which, certainly, no one to look at her
would have suspected, as her weight was rather above
than below 200 lbs~ avoirdupois). N~ot, she wished
~me distinctly to understand, that there was the "laste"
reason for her keeping boarders, but society, genteel
society, was her "wakeness," etc. etc. She said she
12

j

werkennunneum &amp;mmum.muim A +  w- en:r

265

26A


ii
i
Ii

VAN HORN~

267

bill to pay the next day, and Mr. Sleeboy had threat.
ened to sell her out. As she touched upon that topic
I pretended to be very sleepy, and saying I would think
over it and give her an answer in the morning, went up
to bed, leaving her in the parlor to await Doctor Rose's
coming, and settle scores with him.

2&amp;a            ~      v~
had a curious pain just here (putting her fingers on her
capacious die~t), "a kind o' goneness like," for which the
doctors bad unanimously prescribed "~six drops o' sperrits
o' camphor on a lump of loafsugai'," which had given her
great relief; and which she could recommend in case I
were similarly affected. I said I was obliged to her for
the recipe, and would make a note of it in my memo~
randum-book. Then she mentioned that she had always
had great confidence in me, and always entertained the
highest ~f respects for me, that I was a real gentleman,
and had never "desaved" her, and so forth. And now,
beginning to cry, she complained with bitter lament~
tions, that the Doctor had trifled with her ~ffeetions,
besides owing her three months' board, and ten shirts in
the wash a week, which treatment of a lone widow, if it
could come to Mr. Delaney's ears was enough to make
his very bones rattle in his coffin. From her slippery
utterance and maudlin way, I suspected that she had
mistaken spirits of juniper for spirits of camphor on her
loaI.suga~, a suspicion that became a certainty when I
caught a whiff of her fragrant breath. "Whin I ask
the doetber for money, he sings: 'I give thee all, I
can uo more, thouglv poor the offering be, my heart and
Iut~e is all the store that I can bring to thee,2 which
is illigant, but won't pay the butcher." I agreed
with her in that view of the case, and she next rambled
oft' into ~t long account of Mr. Deianey~s sister Mary,
who married Captin' Molloy, who died in the kt Ingees;
and as I reminded her, th~v I had heard of Captain
Molloy's untimely death before, and deeply regretted
it, she wound up by asking me for the loan of thirty
dolI~r8 until the following week, for she had a grocer's


269

ii'
11
'II

shaving water not up in time, or the tender-loin of the
steak not having been apportioned to his plate, to fly
into a passion and threaten the landlady with an instant
foreclosure of the mortgage. In this way,. Mrs. Delaney
was subjected to constant unpleasant apprehensions, and
being, as it were, under his skinny thumb, knew no
better mode of conciliating the curmudgeon than to
make love to him, a process which proved about as
effectual as ogling a grizzly bear.
So matters stood. Doctor Rose, with the natural
aversion of a high.strung nature to meddle in monetary
affairs, proffering his heart and lute as an equivalent for
his board, lodging, and washing; and the landlady, in
her turn, exercising her sweetest spells to mollify her
crusty creditor. Now, this last one was not unwilling
to be propitiated so long as everything went to his
satisfaction, and all would have gone cn as merry as a
dinner-bell (to use a new and appropriate simile), had it
not been that there were others before whom Mrs.
Delaney was powerless. These were grubbing, catch-
penny tradesmen, who were not to be kept at bay by
the blandishments of beauty, and insisted rather impo'.
likely and obstinately on being paid in current funds,
Mrs. Delaney consequently was obliged to retrench her
purchases, and the scanty meals became still scantier.
Liver and cod-fish cakes entirely supplanted steaks ~and
chops; and haslet-stew, roast-beef. This caused much
dissatisfaction among the boarders. Those, who 'paid
let at once, and those that did not threatened to follow
the others if' the table were not better provided. To
increase her troubles, quarter-day was approaching;
there was no money to pay rent, and the dreaded Slee-

CIIAP~~ER XVI,
SHO1~T, I3UT
~JRs.DELA!o3~Y had come indeed to serious grief. And
ill Mr. Sleeboy, the gentleman she had referred to in
her conversation with me, was at the bottom of it all.
Old Sleeboy, you must know, was one of the boarders;
a middle-aged bachelor in the drug business who
always carried about him an aroma of Spts. Am. Fort.
and assafetida, which made him, by the bye, rather an
undesirable neighbor at table. lie was one of the sharp
and prudent sort, and had lent Mrs. Delaney the funds
to furnish her establishment, receiving therefore, besides
interest on the money advanced, his board and lodging,
making in all a return of about sixty per centum per
annum on his investment, the loan being secured by a
mortgage on the widow's goods and chattels. This old
bachelor was very irascible and apt on any shortcoming,
such as his boots not being properly glossed, his


G R~T VAN HO1~.

I
'Ii
II
~Ji
liii
ji~j
Iii
it:

colored waiter, who stood aghast at the scene, flung
i~V with all her might at the IDoctor. He ducked in
time, and the missile went smack into the stomach of
Mr. Quackenbush, a portly boarder, doubling him up
like a hinge. Hereupon Mr. Sw~ggsmill, Mi'. Clapp,
and I, deeming that the sport wa&amp; taking too seAous a
turn, intrepidly interfered, and after some struggling
secured the landlady and locked her up in a room to
prevent her doing further mischief.
Not long after a deputy~sheriff took possession of the
establishment in virtue of Mr. Sleeb~y's claim. Soon
the blood-red flag of the auctioneer waved over the
hall-door, and thus happened the Decline and Fall of
genteel Mrs. Delaney's genteel boarding-house.

LII ~DI

271

boy said irrevocably, that he would foreclose the Inert.
gage without delay.. This portentous announcement
was c~mnninieated to the unlucky widow on the evening
I had gone to the masquerade, and was the cause of her
unwanted perturbation and pathetic confiding in me
when I returned. It certainly seemed now as if our
genteel landlady had run the length of her tether, and
a serious misfortunee were impending.
It fell the next day.
On descending. the nest morning I found Mrs. Dc.
laney asleep on the stairs, face puffy and red, hair
rumpIcd~ la~e~col1ar torn, and her brooch missing.
Her interview with the Doctor had evidently come to a
calamitous end, tbr he bore a bruise over the left eye
which be confessed to inc had been inflicted by the
widow's pelting him with the ornamental vases from the
parlor.mantel; a fact, vouched for by the shivered
mirrors ~iud fragikients of china'ware scattered over the
carpet.
By the time Mrs. Delaney awoke from slumber, the
Doctor had packed his trunks and was preparing to
leave the house, when she resumed hostilities. She
accused him, among a multitude of offences, of having
filched her jewelry., to which he replied, with cool
scorn, by calling her a drunken trull and other epithets
of similar elegance.
Furious, with rage she flew at him like a tigress. The
Doctor bolted into the dining-room to entrench himself
behind the table. "Form a ring," cried I, anticipating
some fun, to the boarders, who were coming in to break-
fasf~, "and iet'them have it out."
Suddenly the widow, snatching the big hand-bell fron~


GAR1~BT VAN hORN.

K

CHAPTER

XVII.

DR. ROSE DOES TIlE AGREEABLE,
S IIORThY after the masquerade, and when the w6und
received in the encounter with the redoubtabl&amp;
widow Delaney had completely healed, Doctor Rose
made Miss Home a party call. He expressed the great
enjoyment he had received-was choice in his compli-
ments on her appearance, and in short, made himself
most agreeable and winning.
"Your name's a Scotch one, I believe, Mr. Rose ?"
inquired Mr. Home.
"Yes, sir, my grandfather was a Scotchman, a Rose
of Kilravock."
"Indeed! A good family. I recollect well seeing
their castle on the Nairn."
"Any Scotch family's a good one. There's no villains
or nobles there as in England. They've only heads of
family. Any Campbell's a relative of the Duke of

Argyll, but what affinity is there between the Percy and
a humble worker in his mines? None whatever. Hence
the poor Scot has more pride and self-respect than the
humble Anglo-Saxon."
"True-trUe. Have you ever been in Scotland'
sir?"
"All through it-from John o' Groat's to Maidenkirk.
Shot the red-grouse on the muir-..-the snowy ptarmigan
on the blue Cheviots, and peered the dun deer among
the Hieland glens. Your family, Mr. Home, is from
]3erwickshire ?"
"Aye, sir, a Border one."
"I've a grand-aunt still living in Argylishire. Mag-
nificent scenery there. I went once deer-stalking with
a friend of mine, a fine fellow, Lord Craig, perhaPs you
know him ?"
"Not Hew Craig of the Cameronians ?"
"The same,"
"Bless me, you don't say so. Why Craig is a kins-
man of ours. Let me think-Craig's mother was a
Killicrankie of Fife, and the Killicrankies and Ramsays
are our cousins, as yoi~ probably are aware. Know any
of the Ramsays of Linkumdoddie ?" etc. etc. And Mr.
Home narrated with some prolixity the various degrees
of consanguinity between the Killicrankies, the Ramsays,
and the ilomes.
The Doctor listened attentively and made himself
otherwise supple to his host's opinions. Then he begged
Miss home to favor him with some music. "For the
fame of your voice, Miss home, has reached me, and you
cannot refuse to gratify me with a song. A Scotch
ballad, if you will be so kind, for there is in these a
12*

4

278

~iI


274            GA~i~~T VA~' flOkN,                                                      flET VA~4' flO]~T.         275

melody so peculiarly local, so exquisitely sympathetic,
that we cannot find their equals in the national songs of
any other land."
Miss Home com~died, and sang her father's favorite
song~" John Anderson my Jo."
Then of course the Doctor's vocalfame had reached
Miss Home, and he must certainly favor them in his
turn~ so he sat at the piano and gave them, "Of a' the
airts the wind eau blaw."~~b~.He could not have selected
any t~ please Mr. Home letter, who exclaimed 'in
delight: "0 that's very fine indeed, very fine Mr. Rose.
A little more if you please. You pronounce the accents
of Auld Sc~ti; admirably~ I should without any hesi-
tation have taken you for a genuine Soot."
The obliging Doctor sang, "Jessie the flower of
Dumblane," "My Nannie 0," "The Lass o' ~owrie,"
and many other verses highly complimentary to the
heather, the braes, blue cen, and gowden locks; and
finally wouad up with the "Laird o' Cockpen," in
which lilting song Mt Home joined, keeping time with
his foot with much relish. Then Lesbia and the Doctor
sang some German duets, during which Mi'. Home fell
asleep in his arm-chair, until the cessation of the music
weakening him, he proposed cards. "Do you play whist,
Mr. Rose ?"
"Very fond of it."
"Mrs. Parkins, madam, ~i1l you take a hand? Lesbia,
my dear, ring the bell for hot water. I beg your pardon,
Mr. Rose, but what may I offer you ?"
"I've an idea, Mr. Home, that I can get here some of
the fragrant nectar of the heather hills."
"You drink toddy, then ?"

The Poetor in response quoted:
"Let husky Wheat the haughs adorn," etoi eto,
And Mr. Home rejoined with:
"When neebors auger at a plea," etc.
for he knew ~Burns from cover to cover.
"It's seldom we can get any whiskey comparable to
this~ here. Its aroma, I think, is superior to cura9oa
without the cloying sweetness of the cordial," said Dr.
Rose, sniffing at his beal~er.
"Aye, it has the genuine fragrance, sir, the true peat
reek," said Mr. Home.
"Dkl you ever taste any of our native distillations ?"
"I never did."
"A friend of mine presented me a short time ago
with a demijohuof very fine and eld Bourbon whiskey.
If you would be good. enough to accept it, I should be
delighted to send you some."
"Thank you, Mr. Rose, you're too kind, indeed," etc.
etc., and thus they chatted and played whist. The
Doctor had Leshia for partner and though he played
well, yet he managed it so that his host should win.
Nothing more was needed t6 establish the Doctor firmly
in Mr. Home's esteem, and he left the house with a warm
invitation to call again, of which he failed not to avail
himself.
I learnt all this when I made my call at "The Maples,"
which I did with some humility, owing to my uncere-
monious behavior at the masquerade.
"Your friend Dr. Rose came to see us the other

14
~It
j


/

~278

GARRET VAN ROR~f.

evening, Mr. Van Horn. I was much pleased to make
his acquaintance. What a very agreeable and prepos-
sessing gentleman he is, to be sure. More like an old-
countryman than are most Americans, isn't he, Lesbia ?"
said Mr. Home.
"He has a fine voice," replied Lesbia.
"How well he sang, 'Of a' the airts the wind can
blaw.' I hadn't heard anything like it in a very, very long
while. It is the more remarkable too, in an American,
for as a general thing tl~iere are but few good voices
among your countrymen. We spent a very delightful
evening indeed. Lesbian and he sang together for more
than an hour. He certainly seems a man of superior
intellect and acquirements."
Xo gratification to me in that news. Of course I
scouted the idea that the Doctor could make any serious
impression on Miss Home, nevertheless I was not pleased
at the progress he was making towards an intimacy with
her, and I did not relish the fact that he had acquired
favor even in her father's eyes.
I was not in love with Miss Home. Love means seW
abnegation, awe-like respect, and a complete and un-
bounded belief in the object's perfection. Myndert was
in love. He was stone-blind and adder-deaf to any of
her failings or imperfections, and inflexible in his faith
that she was a very angel on earth. But I could per-
ceive her faults, perhaps because they so nearly resem-
bled mine. I knew that she was not altogether celestial,
but as material as any of her sisters; that she dearly
loved luxurious dress, dancing, music, exquisite savors;
all the delights, in short, of ear, eye, and palate, and
was reckless enough in her conduct, if it suited her

G ET VAN HORN.

277

purpose, to use even flat deception, but for all that, a
kind, warm-hearted, generous girl. Yet, as I said, I was
not in love. I was bewitched, that's the word, fairly
bewitched by the damsel! Her beauty and accomplish-
ments, her eyes, her figure, her voice, bewildered, entran-
ced, fascinated, bedazzled, and held me beneath a spell.
Xo better evidence, indeed, is needed of my lamentable
condition, than tb~e fact that I was seduced into taking
lessons in guitar-playing and vocal' music, in the sole
intention of surprising my sweet enslaver, some.~moon-
light night, by warbling beneath her lattice a serenade like
a very Almaviva. What an incentive is the divine pas-
siGn! For three months I perseveringly strummed and
hummed until I could twang some sort of an accom-
paniment to "Love's Ritornello." Then adapting a few
verses of my own composing to that air and metre, I
flattered myself that I had gotten up something very
pretty and effective in the way of a melodious appeal to
the sensibilities of a drowsy maiden.
It was on a night in the merry month of May, when
the lilac blooms were diffusing their fragrance on the
circumambient atmosphere and everything else was in
a similarly gratifying state, that I sallied forth a trouba-
douring of my lady-love. I had on a large Spanish
cloak and carried my instrument under my arm- The
ground being damp and air chilly, I wore india-rubber
goloshes over my boots (fancy a troubadour in go-
loshes!) a muffler around my throat, and put jujube-
paste in my mouth to keep the larynx in prime condition.
In this way, I went along about eleven o'clock at night,
thinking of the surprise I had prepared, and how mysti-
t           fled Lesbia would be, and then how pleased, on disco~


27~             GARRE~~ ~VA1~ HOR1~4'.

279

GARRET VA~ ItOR~'.

vering that I was the author of' sueh a gallant, courtly
act, to say nothing of the singing and poetry. Iinfor0
tunately, by the time I had got within a halfmile of Mr.
Home's house, clouds gathered and it became very dark,
Presently, drops of rain fell. I ran for shelter; and more
by accident than anything else, managed to strike the
palings of Mr. Home's garden. Following these, I
touched a gate. N~o~v I was safe, and walking up the
gravel path rested myself on a piazza settee. The
household were doubtless all fast asleep, for not a glim..
mer was perceptible nor a stir to be heard, but outside,
the wind blew through the surrounding tree-tops with a
rushing roar, and occasional blades of lightning revealed
a pale, white landscape, through which the heavy shower
came pattering down like shot.
There was a singular pleasure in my position. Here
was I at dead of night, keeping watch and ward, over
Miss Home, and she lying asleep not fifteen yards from
me. I was a knight holding vigil for his mistress, but
with' this advantage over the steel-clad lover of old, I
eould smoke. So lighting a roll of the brain-soothing,
time-destroying leaf I sat for more than an hour indulg-
ing in all manner of romantic and extravagant fancies,
There was a wild delight, though, in these reveries, a
delight difficult to describe, but I could have continued
constructing air~.casvles till morning, had not the rain
ceased, the. moon shone out again brightly and a chill
seized me, when I became aware that my clothes Were
soaked, goloshes gone, and feet wet. My watch said
one o'clock AJL, and I felt a tickling sensation in my
throat which presaged tracheal difficulties. However, I
was not to be bafllad in that way, and retired to a kiosk

278

I

on the 'hack lawn to clear my voice, tune my guitar, and
rehearse a little before warbling my impassioned lay.
Screwing away at the pegs and tinkling, I began t~Aum
..-um-ummm--kaw! urn):
"GeutI~ Les-bi-ah (urn!)
flaw!) Slumber a~way..-(um---Um)
Sigh not-fbr--~.---~snap I)"
"The deuce!" quoth I, "there goes the C string.
Trying, this, for it is almost too short." But I mend it
and begin again, IIem-tink-urn tang !-umm-kaw!
but unfortunately I am getting as husky as a crow,
"Gent-'-tle Les--bi----ah---Slum" haw !-No use. "Prac-
tice makes perfect" evidently don't apply to singing when
the tonsils are swelling. But remembering Bruce and
the spider, I try again fTwang-twang~. "If at first
(haw!) you don't suc-~----ceed ~sneeze!) try-try-(sneeze!)
again." But hark! the watch-dog's deep-mouthed bay
strikes on mine ear! A scamper-a scramble-a jump!
.~.-and I am over a stone-fence into a neighboring
garden. Not an instant too soon, either, for I hear the
dash of the vigilant quadruped through the bushes and
his unpleasant gro~vl of disappointment. Confound that
Rover! I never thought of him, and it's lucky I escap-
ed being nabbed like a thief'. Then I hear a window-
sash thrown up and Cluny's voice inquiring, "Wha's
thcre ?" I stop not to answer, but hasten sorrowfully
away with the remains of my beautiful Spanish guitar
fracturede. during the escalado) and arrive home at
dawn, jaded, sick, and crestfallen. For a fortnight after
this I was kept to my room with fever and sore4hroat-'


280

F j
I

GARRET VAN hORN.

had to have my uvula clipped, and what not. 0 Lesbia!
-.-Lesbia----obdurate fair! you never knew how much I
suffered and all for you-for you!
A man's in a pitiable state indeed, when he takes to
penning sonnets to his mistress' eye-brow, ~nd to think
how I did churn my brains to indite stanzas to Miss
Home! stanzas, which (worse symptom) I actually
believed pretty and original! Xay, more, that I should
conceive the idea of conveying these rhymes, written on
perfumed pink-tinted paper, in the centre of a bouquet
which cost me five dollars at the florist's! Why I
bought her flowers of which she had plenty of as fine
ones, and why I hid the billet among them when I had
every opportunity of seeing her alone, I am not able to
explain; except on the hypothesis that it was the roman-
tic way and stage mode, a fact, of itself, sufficiently
indicative of the condition I was reduced to.
All this while that insidious Doctor Rose was striving
in every way to ingratiate himself with the folks at
".The Maples." Knowing Mr. Home's fondness for the
flesh-pots, he followed up his present of old Bourbon
with a basket of fine smelt which he said a friend had
sent him from Boston (through the intermediacy of a
fishmonger), and when he ~vent to Philadelphia he
returned with, perhaps a brace of canvas-back ducks or
some fat reed-birds, as a contribution, with his compli-
ments, to Mr. home's larder. He also gave his cook a
recipe for making gumbo soup, and so what with flatter-
ing Mr. Home's palate, teaching him euchre, playing
whet and drinking toddy with him; and what with

281
singing with Lesbia, and bringing her new music and
books, he became such a favorite at "The Maples," that
I was exceedingly discontented and even alarmed. This,
at length, led to a quarrel between him and me which
occurred at the close of a dinner-party we attended
together at Mr. Home's. That gentleman had received
by the steam-packet from Liverpool, a turbot and a
saddle of Southdown mutton, and of course nothing was
more natural or more consonant with his feelings, than
while he eat thereof his~uiends should partake with him.
Myndert, Dr. Rose, an~ If, were invited; also Mr. and
Mrs. Farquharson and Miss Kerr, Mr. Gibson conTh
dental clerk of home, McLeod &amp; Co., with others of
more consequence; for instance, the Hon. Clarence
Tiny, George J3iddulph, Esq., ll.B.M.'s Consul; James
Fenwick Ashhnrnham, Esq., F.R.S., I3XG.S., etc. etc. (a
distinguished naturalist on a tour through the States),
his daughter Miss Emily Ashburnham, and our old
friend A. Kemtop, Esq., and Lady. The Kemtops
were always invited to any entertainment at "The
Maples," not on account of any~ specially attractive
quality in Mr. Kemtop, for beyond the respect due to
his wealth, I think Mr. Home held the pompous Amasa
very cheap indeed, but chiefly because Mrs. Kemtop's
mother was a Scotch lady and had been a school-mate
of Mr. home's mother, which circumstance was almost
sufficient in that gentleman's view to constitute a degree
of kinship between the families. Besides, he knew Mr.
Kemtop would be delighted to meet English fdlks and
more particularly a "scio~" of that nobility whose mag-
nificence caused him such constant and profound admi-
ration, for Mr. Kemtop, during his tour in England, had

y

1'

1;
p
p
p
I.
1~


2~2                                                                                                283

been immensely impressed with the grandeur of all those
vast estates, their halls and lodges,, parks, chases, huge
oaks, etc., and moreover he had been told or had read
in the newspapers (his two sources of information) that
some of the noblemen actually enjoyed incomes of a
pound a minute! Think of that! sixty pounds--three
hundred dollars every hour of their blessed lives! Good-
ness gracious! wasn't it enough to make any man go
down on his very knees and worship such grandees, and
didn't they deserve all the honor, and esteem, and vene-
ration, and everything else the world could bestow?
But why did the honorable Clarence take a seat. at
table directly opposite our worthy Mr. Kemtop? It
was unkind; it was cruel. For the proximity of the
scion" so completely wilted his pomposity that he was
reduced to abject snobbism, lie committed fifty blun-
ders. He perspired; he scalded himself with hot soup,
and let hi~ spoon fall on Mrs. Farquharson's lap; he eat
fi~1I with his knife and choked himself with his food;
he called the colored waiter "your lordship," and then
with ~ rush of blood to the head that threatened his
life (for he was a man of full habit) apologized to Hay
for having applied his "illustrious title" to a "nigger,"
whereupon his "lordship" burst into a horse-laugh, and
asked to take wine with him. Mr. Kemtop, more con-
fused than ever a~t being addressed by Hay, insisted on
his "lordship's," as he persisted in styling him, drinking
first. "After you my lord, is manners," said the courtly
Kemtop, and the lion. Clarence was so amused, that he
invited Mr. Kemtop, should he ever go to London, to
visit him at his rooms in the Albany. Such generous
eondeseens~on overwhelmed Mr. Kemtop, and he was

happy for a week, and contemplated a plan to introduce
the "distinguished foreigner" to the Mayor and Corn-
mon Council and obtain for him the hospitalities of the
city.
The dinner was a substantial one in every respect. It
was served on solid heavy mahogany, in large dishes,
and the spoons and forks were old-fashioned ~ihrer ones
marked with the Home crest, and so massive that it
tired delicate wrists to use them long. The viands were
~~ainly prepared, but there was a choice variety and an
abundance. The Southdown mutton and turbot were,
to be sure, rather in disvor, although everybody affect-
ed to praise them and Mr. Home triumphantly exclaimed
that there was no such meat in this country, but in return
not a vestige was left of that delicious native fish the
Spanish mackerel, nor of the fillet of Dutchess county
beef smothered in mushrooms.
Myndert had anticipated a treat in Mr. Ashburnham's
conversion, but that man of science was far more
inclined to talk of wines and dishes than of anything
else, Myndert tried to draw him out by asking his
opinion of the t~ountry and its institutions, but the
naturalist seemed averse to touch on that topic, assert-
ing curtly, that the only things he had found at all
worthy of notice throughout the States were the Mam-
moth Cave and Shrewsbury oysters. My brother's
national vanity was a little piqued at this remark, and he
might have entered into an ill-timed discussion, had not
Mr. Home prevented it by commencing a dessert-story
which he invariably related when the conversation
turned in any way upon American matters. It was not
unlike, too, Mr.. Ilardcastle's story of old Grouse in the

K
i~I
If

r
If

2M

283


It
If

284

GAI~RflT YX~ EOR~f~.

gun-room, in having been laughed at for 'many years.
"That reminds me," began Mr. Home, "that reminds
me of my first and only visit to a watering-place in this
country. You see, Lesbia hadn't come over yet, and I
was living in bachelor style at the Globe. I had read
such glowing accounts of the place in the papers and a
friend urged me so strongly to accompany him, that I
decided finally to go. The hotels are so comfortable,
said my friend, such good beds and fine sea-breeze and
all that, that you'll enjoy yourself. 'Besides,' added he,
'we have such good society there, such a host of beauti-
Luf and intellectual ladies '-and he laid great stress on
this as being especially attractive to an old widower
like me. So I ~vent, but when we got there the hotels
were so crowded that they were unable to give me a room
or a bed, but offered me part of a billiard table as the
best they could do. Not relishing the idea of reposing
on so hard a couch, I obtained as a great favor a little
dark closet at the end of the bowling alley, where I was
kept awake half the night by the knocking about of the
balls and pins. The next day, my friend introduced me
to some of the celebrated beauties, but the lovely belle
Miss A. squinted, the dashing widow B. wore artificial
bloom and curls, the graceful Miss C. stooped, and when I
remarked to th~ witty and accomplished Miss D. that it
was delightful weather, she smilingly answered, that 'it
wasn't anything else,' and subsequently, in alluding to a
young man who was very attentive to many young
ladies, she observed that if her beau 'should flirt iii that
way she would soon be after him with a sharp stick,'"
and Mr. Home stopped to laugh until the tears came
I~tQ his eyes. "Then I wanted to bathe, but I found

GAR?~ET VAN' flO1~.

285

I must not go on one side as the m~dertow might carry
me off, and on the other side a shark had lately bitten
off a gentleman's toe, so I was advised not to venture
in beyond six inches depth of water. They promised
me better lodgings the next night, and gave me a neat
bed-r6om, but unfortunately there was a hop that even~
ing, and a~ the hopping was carried on immediately
above me, I fared no- better with the hoppers than I
did with the bowlers. As for the meals, the least said
about them, the better; so finding I could obtain neither
rest, food, nor amusement at this watering-place, Ii took
my portmanteau and departed at once, and that is the
only time I left New York since I have been in the
States."
"There is certainly nothing to tem~one to travel
here," said Mr. Ashburnham, "for wherever I have
been, even in the largest and finest hotels, I have not
met with a tithe of that comfort and attention one inva~
riably finds in any of our little wayside inns.~~
"Such an inn, for instance, as Irvixig describes," said
Dr. Rose.
"Irving-Irving "-said Mr. Ashburnham, "pray,
isn't he the author of that pretty Indian tale, 'The Last
of the Mohicans ?"'
"No," said Myndert, "that is Cooper, our Walter
Scott."
"Aye," said Mr. Home with a smile, "but not eiact~
ly our Sir Walter." (lie never omitted the handle to a
man's name.)
"That's a fine portrait of Burns you have, Mr.
home," said Dr. Rose. "it's so lifelike and conveys so
truthful a representation of what the man was. The


Celtic lineaments are rather harsh, but the eyes are so
beautifW, ~o lumi~ions, an4 bespeak such wonderful
genius. Gray is decidedly wrong in that elegant
Elegy of his, where he speaks of mute inglorious
Miltons, for a true poet could no more help singing than
a lark, Burns is an example......he sang at the plough..
taiL It is a pity he was such aslave to drink."
"I preaume," said Miss Kerr, "that he contracted the
unfortunate propensity while employed as a gauger.
It ~s customary, is it not, Dr. Rose, for such people to
taste every cask ?"
"Quite an original suggestion, Miss Kerr, thank you.
Really, I never thought of that. But as I was about to
observe, Burns and Shakspeare, those twin suns, are the
only two poets who are truly fresh and uncontaminated
by imitatiou and classical learning; and moreover, the
only two who can compare with the ancients even if they
do not surpass them, and why? Simply because they
drank not from the .springs of ~astaly but from their
native rifls, and communed with nature i~ propria
persona, not taking her at second..hand like college-bred
bards, who look at water, earth, and trees, through the
spectacles of VirgiL Look at the French poets, the
greatest, Racine and Corneille, what spurious trash have
they penned, what servile imitators are they of the
Greeks; in fact, the only passable poet the French
have, is a song-writer formed entirely like Burns of
native luaterials. We Americans owe England and
Scotland for Burns and Shakspeare. a debt we shall never
be able to pay. To be sure, we Yankees are a smart
people and have acquired a proud position, but to whout
do we owe it? To England, and when I say England,

GAIU~T VA~ HORN.             287~

I include of course Scotland-the rose and the thistle
on one stem, from whom we have received civilization,
ideas, and principles ready made, and well made too;
I am somex~hat of a cosmopolitan as you perceive, and
not in the least trammelled by national prejudices."
~" It is very gratifying, Doctor," said Mr. Home, "to
meet a man of your stamp, willing to render justice to
the old mother country, for it is too much the practice,
as you have observed, among Americans, to forget what
they owe us in this respect."
The ladies now withdrew to the parlors, while the
gentlemen remained at table to smoke and drink. Dr.
Rose slipped away at the first opportunity to rejoin the
ladies, and I quickly followed. I found him seated on a
sofa, between Miss Home and Miss Ashburnham, relat.
ing some diverting anecdote. Not to appear annoyed,
I commenced chatting with Miss Kerr. In a few mo~
ments Lesbia intefrupted us, and said, with a mischie-
vous glance at me: "Miss Kerr, you are a lover of
poetry, I believe, and I want to show you some verses.
You were talking a while ago about Burns and origin..
ality, and now, here is a sonnet, written to a friend of
mine by a young poet as yet unknown to fame, which
you shall pass judgment on. I should say he was either
a lapidary or ajeweller's apprentice, for his sitniles are so
characteristic. Thejady's eyes are compared to blazing
diamonds~ her lips to glowing rubies, her teeth to orient
pearls, her lingers to silver tipped with opals of a
roseate hue. Isn't it novel, tasty, and consistent? I
bogged a copy to show you-read."
Miss Kerr, who affected to be a great critic in literary
matters, read my ill-used stanzas with a knowing simper,

287-


41

288            Gifl1~ V'A~ ~OR~
and then passed the billet to the Doctor, who read it
with~ a jeering chuckle.
"There is a Loot too much in the second line, I
believe," observed Miss Kerr with great acumen.
"That's where our friend the jeweler put his foot in
it," said the Doctor, glancing at me and laughing
brutally at his wretched joke.
I became scarlet with anger, while Lesbia was wicked~
ly enjoying my confusion. Sorely tempted, was I, to
turn the tables on the Doctor by divulging his squabble
with Mrs. Delaney, but luckily I restrained myself to
bide the time when I could settle scores with him in
a preferable way. lie noticed the angry mood I was in,
and after we had left the house and were walking to
catch the omnibus, he drew my arm through his in an
amicable way and tried to conciliate we. "Did you
notice, Van, that little Ashburnham? She's a pretty
thing, aint she? The little rosebud 'begins to know
her powers, too . . . How she played her eyes at
you during dinner, and how she pouted when Myndert
began talking to her about red sandstone and the
formation of the Palisades . . . . Old Ashburnham
himself looks as if he knew more about wines than
stones, don't he? . . . . That Kemtop's a true toady
if ever there was one. By Jupiter! when th~t~ stupid
Hay spoke to him there was danger of apoplexy. . if
I had had a lancet I'd certainly have breathed ~rvein for
him; as. it was, I could hardly refrain from sticking my
fork in his jugular! . . . . What a rabid old Scot old
Home is! It's a wonder he didn't treat us to a haggis
and a dessert of bannocks o' barley. How he affects
the Iflelander, though in reality, there's no mere of the

GA1~ET VA T HORN~

289

Celt in1 him than there is in you, not a bit. He's such
a bigoted Englishman, too. It's amusing to hear him
talk about Burns-he pretends to hold him in such
admiration, when, if the drunken gauger were alive, old
home would see him hanged before he'd. have him over
his threshold. However we can forgive a great deal of
nonsense in the father of such a glorious daughter' as
he's got, can't we Van? . . . That girl always reminds
me of ilerrick's Julia with 'cheeks like cveam enclareted,
double-chin, and rolling eye.' . . You've never read
the hlesperides, eh, Van? No. Then you must . . . She
looked splendid-trailseendant! that night of the mas~
querade, don't you think so? What moulded elegance
of leg and arm, how robust, and yet how shapely! just
where the gastroenernius joins the .soleus. Were you
an anatomist you'd appreciate those beauties better.
Lord! what would Flaxman not have given for such a
model. Begad, I don't wonder at her fancying mas~
querades and short petticoats. She's excusable, certain~
ly, possessing such charms, to wish to display as much
of them as possible."
In the temper I was in his free language soon fired
me, and ere he had concluded talking, I cut him short
with a blow in the face. He reeled back, and for an
instant looked pale and aifrightened. "Why-why
~-~-what the devil do you mean? Are you crazy or
drunk?"
"Dam you, I{ose~ if you're a man you'll strike back!
If you're not a coward you'll call me out and shoot me.
Daramit! do. you think I'll stand such insulting remarks
about a lady friend of mine ?"
I' There-there," said he, soothingly, and trying to
13

if

I'!


290         GARRET VAN IIORN~

pat me on the back. "Don't get excited, Van, my boy,
-don't get excited, I didn't mean anything~"
"Go to the devil I" I replied, shaking him olE
"Well," said he, trying to laugh, "the surest and
quickest way to get there is to stick by you, so give me
your arm. Yow, Van, when you come to your senses,
my boy, you'll be sorry for acting so foolishly, You
should recollect that I've been a good friend to you, and
that you are under some little obligations to me. And
besides, it isn't a very brave thing to attack a man
who, you know, is prevented by certain forcible reasons
from fighting. It's very much like striking a man when
his hands are tied."
I looked at him to see if he really thought I was
fool enough to believe that any regard for Quaker prin-
ciples or relatives restrained him from fighting, and he
seemed so unruffled and sincere that I could have kicked
him, but he had reminded me that I owed him money;
and the humility of a debtor coming over me, I was
cowed.
But we were at swords' points, from that moment.

K

CHAPTER XVIII.
IN WHICH UNCLE (~ARRET LEAVES ~
R. Van Horn fell sick. A slight attack at first, it
would have yielded to simple remedies, but "busi-
ness-4usiness "-wag so pressing that he had not time
to attend to anything else, and consequently, it progress~
ed to a serious stage. Mrs. Van Horn, however, sounded
the alarm, and sent for the physician, who insisted on
the chase for dollars being suspended until damages
could be repair~d. This was hard, to be sure, but there
was no help for it, for though Mr. Van Horn felt quite
certain of holding a clear title to mansionS in the skies,
yet he was in no great hurry to occupy them, or more
desirous* of leaving this wicked world than the guiltiest
wretch in it. His illness increased. Old Doctor Jock-
mell, the family physician, it was evident from his pro-
found looks and his ~aying that every symptom was just
as he expected, knew very little about the case, so he

290


292

TARGET VAN HORN.

called in his experienced friend Dr. Melijock to see what
he thought of it. Dr. Melljo9k wore a helpless, abstract
ed air, as if' his thoughts ~verein Tartary. Dr. Melijock
felt the patient's pulse-.-400ked at his tongue-.....an~
inquired, "Appetite ?"
"Not the least in the world," replied Mrs. Van
Horn.
~ and Dr. Melljock made gestures as
if Writing.
"Paper ?" asked Mrs. Van Horn.
"Yes," answered the doctor to the wall. OIl a slip
of paper he scribbled some marks like Sanscrit charac~
ters, and placed it on the mantel. Then grasping his
hat he wandered foggily about the room in search of the
door.
"This way, doctor, if' you please,"
" ~
~ see," and Dr. lVfelljock
disappeared. But in spite of Di'. Melijock's prescription
Mr. Van Horn's malady went from bad to worse. It
was aggravated too, by his forced restraint from busi-
ness, and being unaccustomed to sickness he bore it
with very little patience, Every evening Mr. Otter
came to report Proceedings, hold consultations, and
receive instructions. Yet this did not supply the wants
nor allay the disturbance of that busy brain., I, also,
occasionally visaed Mr. Van Horn, but he seemed to
derive no gratification whatever from m~ presence,
although I endeavored to make myself as serviceable as I
possibly could. Aunt Jane, on her part, was unremit
ting in her attendance at the bedside, and was spurred
by the occasion into her bustling activity of former
days.

GARRET VAN HORN.             293
Weeks passed on, and there were as yet no signs of
improvement in the patient. Failing to derive any
benefit from the allopathic leeches he decided to try a
honicoopathic one, but Dr. Sirnilia S. Curantur succeed-
ed no better than the others. Then Dr. Jockmell was
recalled, and a consultation determined on. Besides
Drs. Jockmell and Melijock, came the eminent Galen
Jeilmock, great in heroic surgery, having performed an
operation that had even baffled Sir A. Cooper and
Dupuytren* Thirty-six obstinate paupers, to be sure,
had meanly perished rather than bear testimony to Sur-
geon Jelimock's skill, but finally, one gratefully survived
to prove to an admiring world the possibility of' the
success of' such a difficult operation and to add lustre to
Galen Jelimock's fame. Present also, was another
famous practitioner, Dr. Mockjell, and our old friend
Dr. Rose, as ~vise probably as any of the others, if he
was a snake in the grass. The five physicians gathered
around the bed of the sick man, whose languid eyes
scanned their faces to read his fate. The leeches all
looked supernaturally sagacious and solemn. Drs. Mell-
jock and Mockjell cogitating on how stiff a fee they
could charge so rich a patient, and Surgeon Jelimock
feeling, perhaps, a little disappointed that the case
afforded no opportunity to wield his bistoury and carve
and extract a bit of living muscle. Next, they all
retired to a private room. and old Dr. Jockinell related
the history of the disease and the treatment he had pur-
sued, whereupon the others unanimously declared that
their experienced friend Dr. Jockmell had done all that
could possibly be done under the circumstances to
cure the patient. The great Jeilmock, however, sug-

I

298


294

GARRET VAR IIOit~,                                                              295

tested that it might be better perhaps to give the
patient his next powder at half-past six, instead of seven
o'clock. The others coincided at once in this valuable
Opinion, but unfortunately at a quarter..past six the sick
man expired, thereby depriving the Medico..chirui.gical
Review, and the world, of the result of' that interesting
experiment
It~ takes a long time and much labor to build fame and
fortune, but how quickly may one be snatched away from
them by that grim, interme(~~~jflg scythesman Death!
A man may flare away with ever so prodigious a flame
in this world, but a breath suffices to snuff him out
like the meanest rushlight of humanity. And Mr. Van
Horn, who was a man of importance yesterday, vanished
like a broken soap-bubble on the morrow and left no
void.
And now the funeral. A dark, gloomy room~a nar-
row rosewood case-.-.the last bed of man, surrounded
by crape~covered forms, a grief strickeji widow and
sobbing sisters; a throng of mute, motionless friends;
undertaker's men gliding noiselessly about and speaking
with bated breath; and in a retired corner, a shy, shab-
by old man in worn-out black gloves, poor IV~r. llogg, a
true and sincere mourner~coine to pay the last tribute
of respect to his dead employer.
Did I feel any grief? Yo ;-how could I? There had
been~ no affection between us. I Was moved at first by
the disappearance for evermore of an old familiar face,
but this emotion soon gave pl~ce to others, for had not
the moment awaited for through many years at length
arrived? And was I not now about to enter upon a

G RET VA!~' flORN~
long expected era of unbounded luxury and pleasure?
To be truthful, it must be confessed, that, though I
assumed a becomingly sad countenance while riding to
the interment, yet was I all eagerness to learn the con-
tents of the will. My heart was full of elation instead
of sorrow, and I was chiefly occupied in forming plans
for the enjoyment of my future wealth.
The will was opened. It was a long, verbose docu-
ment, but I listened with trembling anxiety to every
word that fell from the reader's lips. There were a
tedious list of bequests to various institutions; a small
legacy to each of the deceased's sisters; and the remains
der of his property was left to the widow. My name was
not even mentioned. Judge of my amazement, despair
-indignation! I took the will from the lawyer's hands
and examined it carefully; I read it over, word after
word, but found nothing different from what I had
heard. I was completely ignored-completely cut off
from any heritage-not one stiver left to me-nothing!
I had bitten into the luscious-looking fruit-it was filled
with ashes, and the mocking laugh of some malicious
goblin seemed to ring in my ears!
And this was the result of years of expectation; for
this I had neglected every opportunity of earning for-
tune and distinction; for this I had been lapped in soft-
ness and pleasure, and left at last with an enervated
mind, incapable of stemming the current of life, and fit
but for a bubble on its surface!
The public chroniclers said that the whole mercantile
community were in mourning for the death of Mr. Van
Horn, by which they meant that the flags on the ship-

295


29~            GARRET VAN HORN',
ping in port were put at haWmast; that the Chamber of
Commerce Convened and passed some unmeaning reso..
lutions, and that was all. In reality, the loss of my uncle
caused but little commotion in the world of traffic, for
the world of traffic has no time for mourning or rejoicing,
and its pursuits deaden the capacity for indulging in
such elnotioiis his fellow merchants met each other as
usual on 'Change, one would say; "So Van l'Jorn's
dead, I hear-...hoiv much did he leave ?" Two millions,
they say. "Sad affair-.J want to charter the Neptune
for Cowes and a market," etc. etc. Another, more
decorous, would mumble some trite reflections on the
uncertainty of life, and add, "lie was a most worthy
man, sir. I may ~ay a first class man, and made a~
excellent note." And on they all continued, striving
and struggling, and selling their souls for gold~
gold-.--~gold! while one of their number, killed in the
contest, was shovelled away from sight and memory for
ever. Proletarians derived a little consolation from the
event: "What good does his money do him now?
he'd have been as well ofi wouldn't he, if he'd have
given more to the poor? We're richer now than he
is," etc. etc. Di'awing~i'ooms discussed the disposition
Mrs. Van horn would make of her share of the property,
said they; "There will be no restraint now to her love of
display," and predicted she would wed again ere a twelve
month was over. The praise of the dead merchant was
spoken from a hundred pulpits, and his life held up as
a pattern for the young and an example of righteousness5
unto all men. The public prints blazoned forth his post-
hutnous gifts to the cause of charity and religion, Here
is what that widely circulated sheet, the Gazette, said:

GARRET VAN HORN.                      297
bituat~.
It w~is our melancholy duty to announce to our readers, a short time
ago, the demise of our old and much esteemed fellow citizen, Garret
Van Horn, Esq. Mr. Van Horn was eminently a self-made man. He
came to this city when a boy, and entered the counting-house of the
late Abraham Depeyster, of whom in due course of time he became a
partner and eventually the successor. He was thoroughly a mer-
chant as well as a gentleman of the old-school. One of those mer-
chants who ~tbide by the good old rules of prudence and 'economy,
and abstain from rash adventures, and wild speculations. He was,
moreover, distinguished as a man of the strictest principles of honor
and the most unswerving integrity. But he is chiefly mourned and
regretted for those Christian virtues which he evinced on every occa-
sion. His ear and purse were always open to every tale of want and
sorrow, and the necessitons never left him unsuccored. His large
fortune was always at the disposal of any benevolent or religious
institution, and the aggregate of money he gave in that direction, if
published, would, hardly be credited. In fact, we are informed that
the bequests to our various religious and charitable societies, men-
tioned in his will, amount to no less than half-a-million dollars. Mr.
Van Horn, we believe, never had any children, and we learn that his
widow is named residuary legatee. In conclusion, we may state that
he dicd, as he had lived, like a true Christian and in the full hope of a
blessed Immortality. Truly may we say in this case, "that Angels
weep when such men die."
Whilst reading that article my soured feelings vibrat-
ed between anger and contempt, and I exclaimed:
What glozing of a hypocrite! J~ut now, in the calm-
ness of disinterested retrospection, I retract that hasty
verdict, for hypocrite my uncle certainly was not. llY~o-
crites indeed, or dissemblers who knowingly counterfeit
virtue, are almost as scarce as true Christians, arid Mr.
XTan Horn believed to the end that he had always lived
13*

Y
.*
4
6
3 J


e

298

GARRET VAN HORN~

as man is commanded to live, and died in the certainty
of a blessed Immortality; peacefully breathing his last
as many a more erring man has done, and many more
will do, for self-deception can give as quiet a death-bed
as a life passed in the exercise of all the, Christian
virtues.
The late Mr. Van Horn was one of the many self.
righteous and deluded men who strive tQ Serve the two
masters, God and Mammon, lie had been pious,
because piety is profitable, and had abstained from evil
ways, for evil ways are costly and injurious. honesty
is the best policy and not only honesty but virtue of
every kind, was his motto, and a mean One itis. Ischew
rioting
~ and loose company, go to bed early and rise
early, be industrious and economical, keep your face
clean and your boots polished, attend worship on Sun-
days, and you will be a good man, respected by all,
prosperous and blessed; for he agreed with Shylock,
without even having read the play, that "thrift is
h1essino~" But all this might not prevent one from
becoming selfish. A wholesome selfishness, thought Mr.
Van Horn, and one that kept people from drunkenness
and kindred vices; bu~ who shall say that calculating
virtue will find more favor than impulsive Vice? But
again, as public report said, Mr. Van Horn was gene-
rous and charitable, his ear and purse were always open
to every tale of sorrow or want, so he devoted fi'om an
annual income of sixty thousand dollars ten thousand or
so to beneficence, another ten went to household eXl)efl~
ses, leaving him a clear forty thousand to increase his
store. Ten thousand dollars from sixty thousand to save
priceless souls and succor fellow-creatures The poor

GARRET VAN HORN.

299

toiler, living from hand to mouth, who dtop~ a penny in
a blind beggar's lap does proportionately more. But
Arithmetic is a stern science and destroys many a pretty
illusion. however, when Mr. Van horn perceived that
he was about to be snatched away from his treasures anc~1
that he could no longer retain them, he sensibly laid an
anchor to windward by leaving a large portion as a
propitiatory offering, or rather as an admittance fee to
the realms above.
It has been said that every man has his price; whether
this be true or not it is certain that Mr. Van Horn had
his. lie was not systematically dishonest, but he was
far from being a man of "unswerving integrity," and
necessity would easily have driven him even to the com-
mission of flat burglary. Therein he differed from his
brother the godless, niggardly Jacob, who was con-
structed honest in every fibre of his body; who under-
stood not deception, and could not conceive how men
could be rogues. Garret, on the contrary, had as little
idea of what true honesty consisted in, although he
pirated so much about it. To be sure, he could refrain
from picking pockets or robbing tills, but of a rigid,
punctilious, rectilinear, thorough, sensitive probity, he
had no conception, for it was always policy and not
inborn virtue that guided him. A cold temperament
and dry heart made him a calculator; no act was ever per-
formed nor word spoken by him, without its effect being
duly poised beforehand. He was certainly open-handed
and lavish ~enough in certain channels; his gifts to
charity were munificent in one sense, but relatively con-
sidered were not so, and there was a want of catholicity
about them that betrayed their abnormal origin; for


800

GARRET VAN fl:ORN.

instance, his faithful old clerk liogg had been entirely
neglected and forgotteii while the Aged and Thdigent
Females Were amply provided for, lie had none of that
prompt beneficence that smoothes the hot pillow or holds
the cup to parched lips, but he dealt his alms as if dis-
charging a debt, nay, as if making a profitable invest-
ment, where thieves could not break in and steal nor
rust corrupt, with a sole eye to the dividends to accrue.
There was ~ spontaneity about his charity, but he doled
it in regular installments, which he supposed effect-
ually cancelled all his responsibility towards his fellow..
beings. This business settled, he wished to hear no
more of crime or Poverty, they were disagreeable things
to see or hear about, besides consurnj~g much valuable
time; time that he could employ in a remunerative way.
And then he would return to watch the wheel ~pf For-
tune in its unceasing gyrations; his heart would close;
his busy brain would weave and set webs to catch the
flying spangles that he loved beyond all else; mecha.ni
cally he eat, and drank, and clothed himself, and went
to his work-room, or to his church where the l)astor's
exhortations rebounded on his ear-drums as unheeded
as the passing wind. Religion, though, he believed,
was an excellent thing, not so much for its teaching love
to all mankind, but chiefly because it den unced luxury
and vice, and inculcated temperance n morality, and
industry, virtues that would infallible mak men pros-
perous and respectable; happy he did not add, for it may
be doubted if he knew the meaning of the word. Com-
fortable, he might have been, as a parsnip in congenial
soil, or even at times he may have felt the greedy joy
Qf a lucky gambler, but of that pure, equable serenity

GARRET 'VAN HORN.             ~o1
~hi~h comes but from a loving heart and a mind senti-
ent of the God-given powers of perception, imagination,
and admiration, he had none. lie was as blind and
insensible to the world of beauty he lived in, as the
caryatides in the temples of Egypt are to the wonders
and marvels about them. Of the delights that music,
poetry, and painting could confer, he had not the minu-
test conception; in his opinion these were simply toys for
foolish minds that would lead them gradually, into the
degradation of the theatre and the dance. A peach
lost half its savor on his palate, and could he have
spared the time to visit Niagara, he would have admired
it solely for its invaluable water-poxver. He measured
all by~is standard; herein, however, he differed but little
from other men, making no allowance for difference of
temperament nor thinking that any could possess brains
that craved other food than his, and that there ~vere
imaginations so differently constituted from the shri-
velled, torpid one in his cranium, that they could behold
beauty and find sermons in stones or leaves. Fain would
I have remained a graceless, indolent, dissatisfied, reck-
less ne'er-do-well, than become such a calculating, passion-
less, industrious, unsympathetic, frugal, opulent, selfish,
devout machine! That eloquent reverend, Romeyn
Westervelt, ThID., in preaching the funeral sermon and
dilating on the excellences of the lamented man, allu-
ded with triumph and stress to the fact of Mr. Van
Ilor~Ps never having played a game of cards or gone
inside of a theatre during his whole life. Was ever
such iimnaculate virtue known! What a wonder that
he was not translated ere Atrcipos clipped his thread like
any common sinner! Why did not the venerable divine

e

301


~O2            GARRET VAN' flOX~
also mention his never having Worn patentleather boots,
lbr surely this abstention was as commendable a trait
and as convincing an evidence of his Christian spirit as
the former ones. Christian spirit, indeed! What is a
Christian? Is it not to be a follower of the meek and
lowly Jesus and forsake friends, relatives, treasures, all'
for his sake? To love your neighbor as yourself and if
stricken on one cheek to turn the other? Of such the
world, alas! hath but very, very few! although the
glorious title is flippantly and sacrilegiously applied to
many; to sleek men of success crusted with selfishness,
who spend their lives gathering gold and give away the
overflow of their coffers; to men of bitter prejudices
who hate their~. neighbor if his mode of worshipping
God differ from theirs; to men passively good who do
but half their duty, shun sins of commission, and take
excellent care of their moral and physical health; to
warrior~ even! men Whose trade is to shed blood, not in
defence of their homes, but in conquest over other races;
all these are styled Christians. Verily, verily, this is the
Age of Pinchbeck!

FORTUNE FROWNS AND FORTUNE SMILES.
x" first act upon learning that I was entirely disin-
herited, as I called it, was to announce my inten-
tion of leaving my aunt's house forever, for I forgot to
mention that subsequent to Mrs. Delaney's downfall, I
had been obliged, by the exigency of financial embaY-
i'assments, to return to University Place.
I was about ordering my effects to be removed-I
hardly knew whither, when Mrs. Van I-Torn sent word
that she wished to speak to me. 11cr bereavement had
worn her to a shadow, and left her in a state of extreme
nervous depression. My presence, though, seemed for a
moment to revive her spirits, and she even strove, kind
woman, to console me ror my disappointment. She tried
many words of encouragement and ended with the
following entreaty, "Stay with me, Garret, stay with
me, and I'll make you rich and happy, yet !"


804            GARRET VA~ RORi~.
I was in that sullen mood when we hug the idea of
being ill-used, and are inclined to be angry with any~
body's trying to relieve us of Our burden. "Madam,"
said I, bitterly, "I can have no claim on you whatever
My uncle disposed of his property jis saw fit. Whe..
ther he did right in leading me int~h opes and anticipa..
tions which he never intended to realize is another
question, and I leave it to the world to judge whether I
have been justly treated or not."
To show roy fine Sense of the injustice done to me I
was ready at that instant to enlist for a soldier or do
any other silly thing, but, as Mrs. Van Horn began to
show symptoms of crying, I relented and listened to her.
"It is very unkind in you to speak so,. Garret. You
know I have always acted like a mother towards you,
and that there is no one in the world now that I think
as much of as I do of you. At this moment, i feel the
want of somebody to stay by me-...some one to live with
me-.you Garry, that I have always looked upon as my
son, you won't leave me now? Do not, Garry, and I
will-..--.-." She was so weak and exhausted by vigils and
her affliction, that Sobs interrupted her, and she was
unable to say more. At the sight of her emotioii I
descended from my pedestal of martyrdom and promised
to remain with her.
I now became absolute master of the house; received
an abundance of money, and was treated in every
respect like an indulged son and heir.
Three months later, in the following spring, I went
with ~anhope J(emtop and two or three other friend8
to the south side of tong Island; Ostensibly on a trout

GARRET VAN    ORN.           305
fishing excursion, but in fact, to raise beard and whiskers
never restored since I sheared them off for the masquer-
ade at Mr. Home's. We put up at a tavern much
frequented by sportsmen and enjoyed ourselves exceed-
ingly, for about a week, in whipping the streams all day,
and in playing brag and cracking bottles of ~vine nearly
all night4
Whilst there, I took up a New York newspaper one
evening after supper, and my rambling eye fell on a
paragraph announcing, of all things in the world, the
marriage of Dr. Edmund Rose to Mrs. Jane Van Horn,
my uncle's widow! Fancy my amazement and anger!
I could hardly believe this news at first, but, on reflec-
tion, a hundred little incidents unheeded before served to
confirm the probability of it's being true. How blind
was I, knowing so well the Doctor's false and scheming
character and having observed his many insinuating
ways in other directions, not to have discovered his
insidious plans over my aunt, that I might have warned
her in time and prevented this marriage, so fraught with
misfortune to her and to me. Fool, fool-that I was!
Duped, completely duped! I could have torn my hair
for very rage! And how could Mrs. Van Horn have so
deceived me? I was much attached to her, apart from
any promptings of interest, and had never forgotten how
invariably kind and generous she had been to me. But
now, wedded to a man whom I detested, to an enemy of
mine, all intercourse between us must cease, for I would
scorn to be beholden to ~either her or her husband for
the slightest favor.
I returned to the city, went imrn~diately to University


~O6            GAI~RKT VAN HORN
Place, and without seekingg Mrs. Van Horn, gave orders to
Dennis to have my effects removed to a neighboring
hotel. Dennis said his mistress desired to see me. I
hesitated for an instant and then complied with her
request. On mounting the stairs II Caine face to face with
Dr. Rose; we both scowled and he followed me into his
wife's apartment. She advanced to meet me, but check-
ed herself on seeing Rose. I bowed very coldly to her,
but before she could speak, Rose arrested her with a
wave of his hand and offered me a chair with a mocking
smirk. I declined, and remained standing while he
spoke in a tone of affected ease that did not glaze his
hatred. "You are probably acquainted by this time
with the news of my Inarliage with Mrs. Van horn.
Under this new condition of things you will at once
perceive that, not having the slightest claim on either of
us, you cannot expect your former position in this house-
hold to continue, but, of course, there is no need of offer-
ing any explanation to a person of your Sense. We
shall, however, be happy to see you at any time you
may do us the honor to visit us." lie paused, as much as
to say, this ~vill end all intercourse between us. In the
same ironical vein, I replied, "Thank you. You are
very good. I shall certainly avail myself of your kind
and cordial invitation. Madam, allow me to congratu
late you on your fortunate union. I don't doubt it
will result in lifelong felicity," and with that, I turned
on my heel.
"Garry! don't," cried Mrs. Van Horn; but If heeded
her not, and shaking the dust from my shoes, hastened -
away with an angry, swelling heart, and without a~hope
for the future.

RET VAN HORN.

807

The last prop had been knocked away, leaving me
utterly cast down! The golden mirage, that lure of so
many years, now vanished and I was helpless iii the
Slough of Despond. I felt now, the irnpotenc~ result-
ing from instability of character, and an aimless and de-
pendent existence. Without a profession, without the
knowledge or craft requisite to earn a livelihood~ what
could I do? To whom turn in this extremity-to
whom apply for assistance? To Myndert, ~vhom I had
only sought when in need of money? I dared not, and
yet how I yearned for his support and sympathy! And
how would the Homes receive me in my present posi-
tion? I lacked the courage to test their friendship, and
venture Lesbia's condescending condolence. I took a
dismal pleasure, however, in nightly prowling around
the villa, moping like ~ lunatic, steering as well as I
was able through the windows, and conjuring all kinds
of fanciful scenes and adventures with Lesbia as the
heroine, and I as the hero, an imagery soon dispelled by
the bitter reality.
On returning to my room after one of these insane
rambles I found a note for me. It was from Myndert,
asking me to come to him. I could hai~dly sleep that
night so anxious was I to see my brother and unburthen
my troubles to him.
Early next morning I went to his office. He happened
to be engaged at the moment I arrived, and so, to
beguile the time until he should have leisure to attend
to inc I strolled about the yard, watching the sturdy
artisans at their labor and meditating on the difference
between their lots and mine. Day after day, year after
year, were these hard-handed men at work, earnest as

I


808

GARRET VAN flORN~

beavers while I Was still dozing on ~ Wine or
dainties seldom passed their lips; of amusement they
had but little; and yet, they seemed as contented as I
had ever been when enjoying ease and luxury, Was
occupation indeed a substitute for pleasure? I caught
some of the enthusiasm of toil. Surely next to working
himself the healthiest employment for an idle man is to
watch others work, and what can interest a thoughtful
beholder like the building of a ship? A temple is but
an elaborated shelter, while a vessel is seemingly a huge
thing of life, meant to tussle with storms; a magniflce~~
and gigantic fish to carry man in its belly and bear him
round the globe; a dreadful behemoth prowling about
in search of prey, and when enraged, snorting fire and
death from its, terrible nostrils!
Yaval architecture aims to combine strength, speed,
capacity, and beauty in one colossal whole, and afEords
the grandest field for the display of inventive genius,
It is man erecting a monument to his temerity, and a
monument arising almost to the dignity of a God-
created thing. hOW gallantly it goes forth to battle
the wrathful seas for the sailor's life, and how hopefully
he clings to it as to a Protecting mother!
ShiP-buildiig employs the art and taste of the
draughtsm~~, the science of the engineer, and the skill
and strength of the wright. ~very vessel from a smnck
to a seventy4'our grows, as it were, from an egg. Thb
egg, or embryo ship, is a miniattire model of one half of
the future hull divided fore and aft, In shaping this
the architect exerts all his taste, science, and genius if he
have any, as the sculptor would on his clay Venus or

GARRET VAN HORN.               809
Hercules. The model or semi-hull is divided into ima~
ginary lines and sections, which are then drafted on
paper in three plans called the sheer, body, and half-
breadth plan. From these the craft is "laid out," as it
is technically called, or transferred from its reduced scale
on paper to its inteiided size, on the floor of a long loft
where the lines and~timbers are traced with chalks
From these designs exact patterns are made of half-
inch plank, and thus every stick in a ship has its
"mould" as the pattern 'is called. These inoulds are
given to the carpenters who proceed to the realization
of the idea, as the statuary's apprentices chisel at the
block to bring forth the lifelike statue hidden within the
shapeless mass.
The keel is laid: a massy vertebra consisting of
several long, squared timbers connected by a neat joint
called a scarf, and firmly riveted by copper bolts. Then
at the forward end, the stem, flanked by the apron, is
affixed with the cutwater springing gracefully out like
a spandrel. Meanwhile, rough, black, seasoned logs of
pink-hearted white oak, or of the ponderous live oak of
the Florida everglades, have been converted, by axe,
and adze, and plane, into smooth segments; into futtocks,
transoms, and graceful fashion-pieces, which ~re now set
into their appropriate positions. The midship frame is
bolted to the keel, and one by one the immense ribs in
varied and diminishing arches rise in view. It seems
now like the Ileshless skeleton of some enormous
stranded whale; but soon this naked frame is covered
by stout planking, rendered pliable by steam so as to
cling closely to each curvature, and pinned by coag and
tree-nails, The scaffolding and shores now removed,

309


310   '        GARRET VA~ hORN.
the noble ship stands revealed in all her majesty and
beauty. How exquisite those lines! The bows swelling
delicately as a woman's bust, and the run gliding~
imperceptibly into' the stern-post. For all her huge
capacity and weight she appears to the eye, while
reposing on the cradle, as trim as a canoe. At last, set
free from earth, she slides in stately silence from the
ways, dips a curtsey, and then reposes in fearless grace
on the breast of the treacherous billows.
And all this work is by no means filigree or watch-
maker's work. 'Nor is it work for boys. It is the labor
of Titans. Each muscle and bone of the mighty crea-
ture is a huge inert timber, only to be moved by hand-
spikes and cant-hooks, or clutched by strong iron clamps
I             and screwed, chained, and belabored with beetles into
its position, then nailed by heavy bolts driven home by
brawny arms. Those all-powerful auxiliaries, the screw,
lever, and wedge, are continually in play and gift these
workers with superhuman power. Look, how this one
masters that dead-wood, a quarter-ton weight; how snug-
ly and easily he fits it to its place; his sole aid, a dog
*             (a short iron bar with a bent 'end), wedge, and maul,
'I            and the attraction of gravitation succumbs. Is not all
this skill and action worth an epic? is there not some-
thing more admirable and stupendous here, than in the
spectacle of a lot of crazy giants hurling big rocks at
each other?
My ~sthetie ruminations were now brought to a
*            close by Myndert's appearance.  lie asked me to
enter his private office. *We were alone together,
audi I began at once to pour out all my so~ rows and
to rail bitterly at the falseness and ingratitude, I

GARRET VAN HORN.            Sit
had been the victim of from my quondam adopted
parents.
Said Myiidert: "I cannot altogether sympathize with
you, Garry. in the first place, Uncle Garret never made
the least pledge or gave you the least reason to believe
that you would inherit any portion of his fortune. He
was far too conscientious and prudent a man for that.
He merely took charge of you, or rather his wife did,
and he endeavored to train and protect, to encourage
and to reward you, as you deserved. Above all lie
wished that you should carve your own way and not
rely entirely upon him, and you must acknowledge that
you never in any way met his expectations. But unfor-
tunately, all your belief and hopes, and all our father's
belief were founded on Aunt Jane's promises and talk,
and you should have known long ago how her, tongue
runs on without any distinct idea of what she is saying,
and that, though no man of sense would depend on dead
men's shoes, it is far more absurd to live and rely on the
cast-off slippers of such a vacillating, kind, foQhsh
woman as our respected aunt. Now you see the result."
"Scold away," said I despairingly: "you're sharp-
sighted enough looking back, and it's easy enough to
point out error when the evil's done."
"To show you that I have long been of the same
opinion," returned he, taking a folded paper from his
strong-box, "read the date of this. You will find that
it was drawn up before your uncle's, death. This will
prove I never did believe you would inherit any of his
money. I expected it would come to this, and I can't
say I am at all sorry. This paper I give to you. Read
it, and you will find bahu for your wounded spirit."


9

8!2

GARRET VAN HORN.

I took the paper, opened and read it. It was a deed
conveying to me the homestead at Communipaw! My
heart leaped! What could I say to this evidence of
fraternal affection?
"0! Myndert-.Myndert !"
"Stop, before you exhaust your gratitude, and listen.
I do nothing more than carry out what would have been
father's will, could he have foreseen the result of his
expectations concerning you. It is no more than my
K
plain duty to restore that ivhich really belongs to you."
"But, at any rate, Myndert, this is more than my
share. I am not entitled to all this. Father could have
left but little else."
"I can tell you that, besides money in mortgages, there
was more gold stowed away in old stockings than you
have any idea of. Anyway, if I'm satisfied with the
partition I suppose you can afford to be. Now, having
paid my debt to you, I'll have you do as much by me.
Look," and he opened a ledger, "there is your account,
and the amount of what you owe me."
I ~aw a long row of $5's, $lO's, and ~2O's, sums he
had lent me at different periods beginning as far back as
the time I was in Paris, and which amounted to over five
hundred dollars. I was surprised at this, never having
suspected he kept an account of these little loans.
Though I had just received such a magnificent present
from him, yet, I must own, my gratitude was somewhat
diminished at this discovery of his excessive prudence.
"Give me your note, Garry, for the total, say at six
months adding the interest. I hope by that time you
will be ready to pay it from earnings. Here are pens
and paper. And now that we've settkd accounts, let me

GARRET VAN HORN.

813

give you a little advice and try to take it to heart. You
have been unfortunate enough to live on expectations,
and you have felt the injury resulting from leaning on
such a feeble staff. You are yet young, and have a good
stock of experience to begin life anew with. Every-
thing induces you to spend the remainder of your life in
a wiser and more profitable way than you have spent
your past years. I 'know it is exceedingly hard to
change rooted habits, but you must wrench away from
them with a will! Don't for Heaven's sake, Garry, be
idle. Work-work, do anything or you'll surely stag..
nate and rot. how I'd like to see you live like your
father before you, at Communipaw, and raise cabbages,
or even here, working alongside of that chap yonder
swinging the broad-axe; anything, anything, but lazi-
ness. I wish I could clench this advice in your fickle
brain; nail in every word to the quick, so that you'd
feel and mind them. hold on, Garry, if you love your
brother-A'iold on to what I say longer than a day. If
you don't you're lost, sure as death !"
hold to his words a day! No; not an hour. That
mad, whirling passion for Lesbia Home overruled every.
thing. No thoughts, no aspirations, no schemes, discon-
nected from her, This lucky throw of the dice affected
me but little. I barely felt some twinges of conscience
at my neglect of Myndei't, which were soon effi~ced by
his exacting those paltry loans, but, t~o-~thrce-four
pplse.beats, and I was the same Garret Van Horn; living
but for the moment, careless of fortune, but little elated
by her smiles, nor long depressed by her frowns.
Owner, now, of the Mill-Kill estate, my first thought
1.4

I
U

t

Ii
1
I I


314         GARRET VAN JIORN,                                                            315

GARRET VAN hORN.

was to sell it. Ashamed to communicate this intention
to Myndert, I employed an agent to transmute the pro.
perty into the greatest obtainable number of dollars.
Owing to its proximity to the city, he realized a far
greater sum for the land than I had expected. There
were some fifty acres, and they brought over one thousand
dollars the acre. This was, in fact, a fortune, and with
it I purposed indulging in many pleasures hitherto
beyond the length of my purse, or rather, solving the
question of how speedily one can rid himself of sixty
thousand dollars in hard cash.
My first duty was to pay sundry debts, among them
about $150 due Dr. Rose which included the $50 he
had sent me while in Paris, enclosing the check to him
m a very curt note. I felt gratified in being able to
cancel this obligation to that insidious knave, and to
show Mrs. Van Horn how easily I could dispense with
any assistance. I also paid the note given to Myndert,
and felt now entirely free and independent of the world.
Perhaps, it may be said, Myndert was injudicious and
unwise in putting me absolutely and unconditionally in
possession of so much property, knowing, as he did, my
spendthrift disposition. A worldly-wise person would
not have done it. But my brother considered his act as
simply one of restitution, which he had no right to clog
or hedge with conditions. His mathematically just
mind knew but one course to pursue, for it was justice
and not generosity that prompted him. A fig for gene-
rosity! Any rogue or fool can be generous, but it takes
a wise and good man ~o be just.
I went to "The Maples." It was my first visit there

/

~1
Ii

since Mrs. Van Horn's marriage. Mr. Home was
cordial as usual, and reproached me for having stayed
away so long. "Though," added he, "I don't doubt
but you've far more attractive society elsewhere than our
quiet household can finish. Some fair lady, mayhap.
Aye, natural enough too. At your age I'd have for.~
saken all friends for a pretty lass. Well, well, you're
still in the age of inflammability, 'ware! and yet why
should I warn you? You must fulfil the destiny of man
and undergo the fate of your fathers."
Blind old papa! It never entered his unsuspecting
head that the enmeshing syren was his dear daughter I
But the syren, I detected with regret, exhibited an
altered state of feeling towards me, for though I accost-
ed her with more than my usual warmth of expression,
signifying the great joy it caused me to revisit her after
my long absence (which I explained by some fib or
other), she received it all with a nonchalance that I could
only attribute to her belief in the great change in my
worldly prospects occasioned by Mrs. Van I-Torn's mar-
riage. AhI thought I, she holds me now but ~s a pen-
i~i1ess dependent; the halo that surrounded the pre-
sumptive heir and rendered him an acceptable suitor
has vanished. Like other worldlings, she favors the
lucky and frowns on the unfortunate. So nettled was I
at this discovery, so wounded in my self-love, that I
could fairly have given all my~new found wealth to
cause her to become a supplant for my favor and
regard. I mentally vowed she should repent having
slighted me, and since she was of so mercenary a nature,
I would astonish and bedazzle her with a display of
splendor and wealth,

In'
LI

*1~

314

815


8I~           GARRET 4YAN flO1~.                                                                         817

Ill
11
I I'

GARRET VA T flORN.

I occupied a suite of rooms at Julien's, furnished luxw
riously as a sultana's bower. I kept valet and groom;
three vehicles and four horses at Willard Reed's. I
gave a jockey ca~'te-61cpzche to buy me a pail' of trotters,
fast ones of course. He did so, picking one up from
before a plough in Maine, and the other somewhere in
Vermont. ~ey Were both bays, with lustrous coats,
small heads, little sharp ears, slim legs, and well-matched,
differing only in one's having a white lozenge on the
forehead. I dare not say what they cost me, but such
flyers as they were! Actual 2 m. 37j's I Ford built
me a brett to hitch behind them; a light tasty affair,
chocolate-color body,. and black Wheels picked out with
verxnillion. The harness was simple and slight, with
polished steel terrets, snaffles, and pole-chain; and alto.
gather, when the ponies stood pawing their round glossy
hoofs with. my man on the box, so trig in tops and
cockaded hat, holding the reins as only an English
domestic can, I assure you the whole affair was highly
creditable to my taste and worth looking at. With
boyish glee I anticipated displaying my turn-out to Miss
Home, and indeed, she could hardly express her admira-
tion and surprise when I dashed up to "The Maples"
one fine afternoon, in most elegant and skilful style.
"Such pretty ones!" exclaimed Lesbia,
And so gentle," said I, "they will Stand like
statues, all' aTone."
"I don't admire that," said Lesbia, "I prefer horses
a little restive."
"Would you like to try them, Miss Home ?"
"0 dear me, yes I" said Lesbia. "Wait a moment till
I get my bonnet and gloves."

* She reappeared provided with hat and parasol4vhip.
"You (lon't need a whip. I've got one, and they'll
go fast enough, I'll warrant," said I.
"how simple you are, I must shade my eyes, and
besides I don't fancy these gentle goers. I must drive.
I dislike your tractable natures. I like opposition, and
shall whip them to spoil their temper."
She touched them merely with the tip of the lash and
off they sprang like startled stags. "hold them in,"
cried I, attempting to assist her. "Stop," she replied in
her wilful way~ "Don't you see I can manage them'?"
The ponies tugged at the bit like eager greyhounds from
the slips, but Lesbia held them bravely, and was over-
joyed at the speed they displayed. In sooth, they fairly
"devoured the plain," whilst I, enrapturedwatched the
glorious face beside me, all animation like Diana's at
the chase, lips half-parted, eyes a4ight, bonnet, scarf, and
glossy curls swept back by the breezy rush, and all in
such graceful, captivating disorder, that I would gladly
have ridden around the globe with her in the same
style.
At King's-bridge we turned to go back, and though I
could not indulge in any sentiment owing to my man
on the back seat, yet I was well repaid in healing her,
when we alighted, utter such rapturous praises of my
little equipage.
"I never saw such elegant little horses and so fast,
too. Dear me, what a pleasure it is to drive them! I
don't know when I have had so much enjoyment."
"I am very happy to hear you say so, Lesbia. Since
they are so much to your taste I place them at your dis.
posal. Will you accept of them? I have others."

I Vi
'I
lit
111
III
Ip
I: ilh
1111

816

817


I

4
I
4

318            GAI~RET VA~ XtORN~
"0, no, thank you. I3ut are they yours ?" she said
with a slight expression of surprise, "I thought "-she
checked herself and bit her lip.
"Yout thought," said I with sly relish, "that I was a
poverty..stricken dependent, perhaps. I fancied as
much from the way you have received me since Mrs.
Van Horn's marriage."
These were unlucky words of mine, for I saw her lip
curl with superb disdain, "0 forgive......forgive 1" cried
I, "I don't mean
We were walking up the lawn path, when this passage
occurred, and as we were about entering the house, she
said, haughtily; "I have been inquisitive and you have
been almost.-Insolent We are both in fault. Say no
more about it or we shall quarrel."
She was not one to brook a taunt, and abashed I sub.
emitted in silence to her reproof. Then in hasty retreat
I sprang into my waggon, lashed my vexation on the
innocent ponies, and sent them rushing homewards,
while, amid hot sighs, I breathed out, "Great God! If
I could only snap this link! If I could but summon
courage enough to fly and never see her face again!
She must hate me, and her scorn will drive me crazy.
0, for a plunge in some lethal stream! But I am pow-
erless; her face, her Voice, haunt me unceasingly. Per-
dition seize thee! but thou art too...-..too handsome !"
Insane Garry! Mad, demented wight! Fit but for a
strait jacket, shaven poll, and iron collar like Gurth's the
swineherd, inscribed "Garret, son of Jacob, is the born
thrall of Lesbia, the enchantress.',
As another step towards bringing my tyrannical queen

jill
I'
~41
III
'Iii
iii
Ii;
Ill
hi

~i~7
to terms, I purchased a yacht; the sloop flebe, that her
owner was forced to part with on account of incompati.
ability of temper between his stomach and the sea. I
had her lengthened and her rig altered, and under a good
sailing-master she succeeded in carrying off a silver
punch-bowl at the club regatta. This gave me some
~clat, and between my fast horses and fast yacht, my
dashing away at Newport and Saratoga and my princely
way pf scattering eagles, I acquired a certain renown~ as
a man of fashion and wealth, and was sought after by
the most select and tonnish sets,
I now affected a nonchalant air towards Miss Home,
and even tried to quiz her. I made it a point of being
present at all the parties which I supposed she would
attend, and was there exuberantly gallant to all other
belles. I strove by every means in my power to excite
her jealousy; praised every pretty face I saw and pre-
tended to be much taken with it, or with an easy famiW
arity showed her some cos1~ly gifts which I intended for
Cora Goldistofle. I was, also, continually enthusiastic
about this one's eyes, that one's complexion or figure,
and praised other damsels until I fancied the vain beauty
was vexed, and seeing this, redoubled my efforts to
bring the recalcitrant fair to a capitulation.
My flourishing about in so magnificent and eccentric
a style made me the town talk, and I was dubbed
"Count." I was the object of many a newspaper squib,
and an interminable quantity of marvellous tattle was
circulated in reference to my wealth, my adventures, and
my mode of life; the most of it idle gossip without any
foundation in fact,

L


I $

fi
I ~1I1
~III
I
ifi~
11

GARRET v~r ~QBN

Much of this notoriety was due to my bizarre mode
of dress, I Jnowing well the effect of any such affecta-
tion on the quidnuncs. WJ~at would poor old Uncle
Garret, who held even rings and breastpins in abhor-
rence, what would he have said, could he have seen inc
with thick mustachios, a beard eight inches long, and in
the startliiig incongruity of crimson cravats, frills, a vest
of large shawl pattern, amber-colored trousers, gloves to
match, jewellery of oxydized silver and a hat of indescri-
bable shape with high conical crown and narrow curled
brim, looking altogether as fantastic as any ineroya6le
of the days of the Directory? Dare depart in your
costume from. the prescribed cut and colors of the day
and you will become at once a man of note in Gotham,
more especially if your vestments be worn witi~ any
approach to ease and dignity. My nerves were steady,
and I could stand smiles, stares, levelled opera-glasses,
and all quips, sneers, remarks derogatory, made in
my hearing, with t~ie firmest composure, and even with
a degree of gratification; knowing well, like the politi-
cian who would rather be roundly abused than remain
unnoticed, that it redounded to my popularity. And as
we all seek fame in one way or another, ~r~d take it as we
do our pleasure wherever it may be found, why, I
accepted the counterfeit title of " Count," with as much
complacency and as little compunction, as if sonic ances-
tor of mine had earned it in the freebooting business, or
I had purchased it with current funds from some needy
kinglet.

I

820

CHAPTER XX.
MThDERT RUNS FOR CONGRESS,

T

Nfl what was Myndert about, while his brother was
frittering away the best years of his life and sqi~an-
dering his dollars like a fool?* Myndert was not only
amassing wealth, but by his conduct acquiring the
friendship and esteem of all among those that knew
him whose friendship and esteem were worth having.
For a long time he had held certain ideas in regard to
the elevation of the working classes, which it was his con-
stant and cherished desire to mould into a practicable
system. None of the theories on that subject which he
had ~tndied seemed to meet his views, and as a prelimi-
nary to his plan whereby artisans could acquire all the
profit possible from their labor without paying a tax to
capitalist~ or~ to traffickers in industry, he entitled his
workmen to receive, besides their stated wages, a certain
dividend Qf the profits realized by him. True, he had
14*


322           GARRET v~ HORN.

MllI

already acquired a fortune and only admitted his co~
laborers to share at the eleventh hour, but it should
be borne in mind that his scheme was but experi-
mental, and had he begun business on such a system
he might have failed at the outset, and thus have
precluded forever a renewal on his part of such 1~n
attempt. Now he felt better able to push his experi-
ment to a fair trial.
His plan comprised the feature of enabling the men to
purchase their comestibles of the producer, as far as
possible, and thus save shop-keeper's profit, and he
intended eventually to gather around the nucleus formed)
other tradesmen, and thus lighten the burden which the
sons of toil bear for the multitude of drones in the
social hive; his theory being based on the fact well-known
to economists, namely; that were all the human family
to work five hours every day they would be enabled to
enjoy every comfort and many of the luxuries which,
under the actual state of society, only the wealthy can
command. True, he saw not clearly how this desirable
condition of things was to be brought about, but mean-
while he deemed it the best plan, instead of calling on
Hercules, to put his shoulder to the wheel and further it
to the extent of his abilities.
By such sincere and unselfish efforts in behalf of his fel-.
lows, he earned an enviable reputation, and was, by the
influence of the ship-carpenters, who formed a numerous
and respectable body of citizens, nominated as a candi-
date to represent his district in Congress.
Myndert was no politician. The chicaiiery of the
trade disgusted him. But he was ambitious and aware
of the opportunity a seat in the National councils would

11

GARRET VAN HORN.             823
give him to expound and promulgate his ideas. He there-
fore gladly allowed himself to be used as~ a candidate
for Congressman. At this time there happened to be
a movement on foot for the organization of a some party
whosQ anilnus or leading principle was the restriction
of the right of suffrage and office-holding to native-born
citizens, in order, as they held, to bring about a better
and more patriotic administration of the government.
~Iyndert being known as an opponent of any foreign
inflacuce in our national policy, his friends considered
him a most suitable standard-bearer around whom they
might rally their forces with those of the new party.
But unfortunately for their hopes, on the test-questions
being put to him, Myndert was found ineligible by the
leaders of the nativists. He frankly told them that
though they might have cause for resentment against
many of the adopted citizens, yet an American should
ever avoid advocating any measure that savored or
approached in the slightest degree towards proscription.
He also ridiculed the idea that our liberties could be in
any way endangered by, comparatively speaking, so small
a number of our population; and in his plain practical
way he showed them~dth pen and paper, that in a few
years that number would become proportionally insig~
nificant. "But gentlemen," added he, "there are other
questions of vastly more importance demanding ~your
attention. Look at the clothes you wear. The cloth
of your coat was made in England, the silk of your vest
in France, the linen of your' shirt in Ireland, the stock-
ings you wear in Scotland, your black-silk cravat in
Italy, why is this? Are Americans so incapable or lazy
that~ they cannot make these things?"


4

S24

GARRET VAN HORN.

"Because they ~re sold to us here cheaper by those
nations than we can make them," replied one.
"And why can they make them cheaper? You will
say because labor is less paid with them. And for this
we must be deprived of the knowledge and practice of
those arts and handicrafts wherein we come in competi-
tion with foreign fabricants."
"Wherein do we lose ?" said another. "We have a
vast extent of territory, raise more than we can con-
sume, other nations need our cotton and wheat, we
supply them in exchange for their productions, this
induces commerce, both are benefited, we in obtaining
cloths and silks far cheaper than we could make them,
and they in receiving cheap bread and raw materials,"
"Suppose our crops fail, how then? Granting even
that they will always be super-abundant you would
transform us all into agriculturists and traffickers.
Which class of people do you suppose are the most
intelligent, they who cultivate cotton wool, or they
who spin and weave and dye it? Which calls into
action the moat ingenuity and intellect.-to raise rye, or
to make that watch in your pocket which comes, of
course, from Switzerland, I admit that agriculture
properly conducted needs study and intelligence; but
the fact remains that soil-tillers are but mere machines,
and have not that incentive to inquiry and thought
which the mechanic finds amid the many wonders and
appliances of mechanical science, Look, gentlemen,
he continued, pointing to a schooner on the stocks (this
conversation was held ~in his office) "that is intended
for a gun-boat for the IMexicans, for which I am to
receive a fe~y kegs of silver dollars, silver dug from

GARRET VAN HORN.

325

their mines. Now, who will be the r~eher when the
exchange is made, this country or Mexico? We get a
lot of dollars useless in themselves except, perhaps, to
make spoons ~f-they receive an instrument useful in a
variety of ways.
"We will be the richer, I take it," said one.
"Why so
"Because, riches consist in the precious metals."
"But they have, perhaps, an almost inexhaustible sup-
ply in their mines which any fool can dig out and smelt."
"In that view of the case they are the better off, for
they have, as you say, a useful thing for one in reality
valueless."
"Y~s; but again we can make as many schooners
as we choose while they, although possessing all the
materials, are perhaps unable to construct one properly.
Thus we are the richer, because we possess a certain
knowledge and skill which they do not, Such occupa-
tions as mining or raising jalap tend but little to
exercise or instruct the mental faculties of man, and
therefore, those engaged in such labors are. far inferior
in intelligence, to carpenters or blacksmiths. Yet, were
it not that timber is so abundant and cheap with us, we
might even be deprived of this branch ~f industry, and
like the Mexicans purchase our ships as we do our pen-
knives from other countries, Owing to the short-
sighted. policy of our government, which fails to protect
the native manufacturer, we now send abroad our cotton
and pay to have it spun, twisted, wove, and returned to
us in thread and sheets, which is as sensible a thing as it
would be to send our flour over the sea and buy it back
when baked into bread."


826            GARRET VAN HORN.
"Competition is the life of trade," suggested a
sceptic.
"Aye, genuine competition among ourselves; but
not competition with the poorly paid and haWstarved
operatives of Europe. Moreover, as I think it the un-
deniable right of all who labor to obtain as much for
their work as the demands and necessities of trade will
admit, unless foreign competition be excluded, it is
hardly possible for artisans to effectually combine and
protect themselves against the oppression of capital.
For capital is like fire, a good servant, but a soulless
tyrant if he get the upper hand."
All these notions were but little to the taste of the
deputation who were filled with a vague dread of
foi'eigners and Jesuits, and utterly blind to the real
injury that Free-trade doctrines and insufficient protect~
tion inflicted on the country. As they liked the man,
however, they. endeavored to induce him to waive his
convictions and attach himself to their cause; but Myn-
dert was too little of the politician to agree to that, he
always spoke what he thought, and understood not
dissimulation, consequently, he was set aside and a
supple man selected, but not until his workmen, all
staunch native-born Americans, had done everything in
their power to induce the new party to accept him even
with his unpopular opinions, so reliant were they on his
thorough probity and patriotism. All their efforts, how-
ever, proved unavailing, and Myndert lost the election
which was carried by the nativists. He was not a
little disappointed at this defeat, for he had desired a
seat in Congress chiefly because it would give him more
brain-toil and thereby replace certain thoughts by

GARRET VAN HORN.             827
others more healthy and fruitful. For it is not only the
guilty who need to banish reflection, but the guiltless
as well, and Myndert, though clever and good, was at
times, perhaps, more unhappy than a wicked wretch.
The cause of his sorrow was a laughable one-to others,
as such causes always are. He had loved and was
rejected, and still he loved. The Laird of Dumbiedikes,
after a long and patient homage, as he deemed but
~ ventured abruptly to offer his hand and heart to
Miss Home. It never transpired in what terms he con-
veyed his proposal, but this much is authentic. Lesbian,
startled, merely raised her eyebrows and listened to the
'postulant. Although always pleased and even amused
with this admirer's peculiarities, yet she had never
reflected upon such a juncture as this. However, in-
stead of quizzing or laughing at him, she replied
seriously and in a far different~ manner from her usual
bantering way:
"Myndert, I like you very much indeed (Poor ~Iyn-
dert's heart dilated with joy), but not enough to accept
you for a husband (As quickly did. Myndert sink to
despair), I could not marry without loving, and Myn-
dert I do not love you. I esteem and respect you very,~
very much, but for some reason I never looked upon you
even as a suitor. You are different from the other gentle-
men who visit at this house, you ar~ deverer and more
sincere. I respect you above them all, but to be candid,
I must frankly admit I do not enjoy your society as
I do that of others. You never could be happy with
me, Myndert, nor I with you. I am. certain of this, for
our tastes are so unlike. I've noticed you never praise
me as others sometimes do, and-and I will confess I

4


828          GARRET VA~T UOR~,                                         GARRET VAN HORN.         329

have felt disappointed-because I should have prized
any praise from you so highly-so certain am I you do
not flatter. But it is idle to talk in this way, and very
foolish in me You are so much wiser, I know, than I
am, and deserve a wife able to appreciate you and make
you happy. But I never could-there, let us forget all
this as quickly as possible and still be good friends.
You will forgive me for talking so, won't you? And
you will not be angry with me?"
She said this in so kind arid cordial a way that poor
Myndert ma~de a wretched effort to appear reconciled.
She noticed his pained expression, and said in an anxious
tone, "Surely you are not sad at what I have said? I
have not pained you, have. I ?"
"No-no," replied Myndert. Truthful tongues must
lie, sometimes, and the thoughtless girl could not con-
ceive the depth of affection in the strong earnest nature
that sued her.
This disappointment caused him to seek relief in some
employment that would demand close application, con-
stant thought, and afford a counter-acting excitement.
Accordingly after his defeat in the. election for Con-
gressmen, he set about with increased zeal to l)CrfCCt his
plan of transforming his works into a complete mutual
benefit association, or rather a sort of pimlanstery of
labQr, where. the workers were entitled to vote and elect
from among themselves certain officers to direct the
organization. Myndert furnished the capital or motor,
for which ho received but a very moderate rate of
interest, and w~s in a certain degree "the power behind
the tlirone2'
Matters went on swimmingly; the workmen were

delighted with th~ scheme and its results; and at length
Myndert, finding that the association was able to stand
alone, took the opportunity to indulge in relaxation and
recreation and departed on a long contemplated visit to
the ~ld world,


CHAPTER XXI,
A BOLD STROKE FOR A WIFE,
W fILE Miss Home was spending some summer days
with her friend Laura Ludlow, I took the oppor-
tunity of cruising about the Sound in my yacht Hebe,
and dropping anchor off Marshall's Neck.
Marshall's Neck is in Fairfield county, Connecticut,
and situated at no great distance from the boundary line
at Byram River. This is a pleasant stream running into
Long Island Sound, and crossed at the town of Port-
chester, as the old village of Saw-Pits is now called, by
a bridge which connects New York with the New Eng-
land states. The instant you enter into the land of
steady habits nature displays a different aspect. At
once the landscape becomes broken and hilly, and full of
romantic beauty, bought however at the price of an
ungrateful soil. About a league from the State line on
the turnpike we come to the village of Horseneck, and a

GAI~REr1r V  HORS.          331

half-mile or so onward, hard-by the Episcopal church,
may be found Put's Hill, the precipice adown which the
brave old soldier rode amid a shower of British bullets.
To the left is a round-about road which is the way the
fox-hunting Eritish prudently took, but since that day,
by drill and blast, a road has been cut through the hill
which, though not steep in comparison with the original
declivity, we probably should not like to descend astride
a l4orse at a breakneck pace. At a little distance
beyond and near Cos-cob harbor lies Marshall's Neck,
jutting into the Sound and comprising several hundred
acres of land with but two houses on it, one the old
dilapidated Marshall homestead and the other the new
Ludlow mansion in all the severity and grandeur of white
painted pediment, and big hollow fluted columns. A
wild isolated spot, it was thereabout, with bold rocky
shores washed by pure blue water; black jagged boul-
ders covered with sea-xveed and bladder-wrack; and little
sandy coves where the sheldrake and snipe waded;
while back of the meadows, in the dense dark forest, the
hawk, king-fisher and cat-bird, mink and woodchuck,
dwelt undisturbed by man. Briefly, here was a pleni-
tude of charms for the appreciative eye of poet or
painter.
But I was drawn thither by other attractions than
scenic beauties, and Laura, surprised at my appearance,
looked very incredulous when I said I had no idea that
Miss Home was staying with her. Fortunately, Laura
had other visitors and dangers, and I was relieved from
much attendance on her and better able to pursue my
suit with Lesbia. But alas! she seemed indisposed to
accept my attentions, and but once only had.I the oppor-


882

GARRET' 'VAN HORN.

unity of a t~te-d~tCte. The yacht, of course, was put to
constant use and afforded much pleasure to all and espe-
cially to Lesbia, who always enjoyed any active open-
air sport with as great a zest as any young man. Like
Diana of Poictiers, she knew the value of exercise in
preserving that rich velvety bloom, that sparkle of eye,,
and lustre of hair.
One afternoon, just after a sharp shower which had
cooled the atmosphere and left a stiff nor'west breeze
blowing, I suggested that we should take a~ sail as it was
a favorable time to put the boat to her speed. All the
ladies save Lesbia objected, for they feared to venture
on the Sound when the white-caps danced so merrily.
I did not attempt to allay their apprehensions, and was
as impatient as fire when I saw Lesbia trying in every
way to persuade them to go. Luckily their dread over-
came their desire, but Lesbia unable to resist the temp-
tation decided after a little hesitation to accompany me.
The Hebe lay moored in a little inlet near the Neck.
Hailing him, the boat-keeper caine ashore in the yawl to
take us on board, but we found that all the other hands
had gone to a camp-meeting held in the environs. Too
impatient to wait, I set about cheerily with my solitary
assistant to get the craft under way. We hoisted the
mainsail and jib and weighed anchor, while Lesbia stood
at the tiller as seli~possessed as Grace Darling.
Out glided the Hebe into the open Sound, as stately as
a swan, then, filled with the rushing breeze, she bent
over like a sapling, and increased her speed until the
water curled up before her in frothy jets.
Lesbian went forward to watch the wedge-like bow
cut the hissing waves, whilst I, at the helm, enjoyed

88S
that triumph of mind over matter which caused the
yacht at every touch of my hand to course, curvet, and
halt like a trained steed.
The day was on the wane. In the west over the
horizon hung a mass of inky clouds pregnant with rain,
from beneath which the effulgence of the setting sun
shone like a broad bar of beaten gold. And so splendid
a sky! for the late shower had dissolved the clouds into
lilac and silver fleeces, that changed in hue 'as they
floated beneath the azure world-roof,
Lesbian stood gazing on the scene with beaming face.
Any pleasure spiced with danger delighted her. She
would have gone a-ballooning any day had an oppor-
tunity presented itself, and doubtless would rather
have preferred driving a locomotive than not, could
it have been done with any degree of grace or ele-
gance.
The boat-keeper was forward, and having a clear
field II tried gradually to introduce the topic which
absorbed my thoughts and wishes. Lesbian had much
to say about the sun, the sky, the glad waters, the
Ocean's unwrinkled brow, Odin's white horses, and the
delightful way we were speeding. I was also senti-
mental, and spoke of the sloop as "my bark," and of
her bow as the "prow." This was well enough, but
when I said the ilebe carried Qesar and his fortunes,
and hinted at her cruelty and my martyrdom, com-
paring myself to the wounded hart after the manner of
Mr. Pope to the charming Mary Moniague, and making
myself otherwise tender and lover-like, she turned aside
With an air of vexation which I could only dispel by
resorting to praise and flattery. She was never tired


II
U
ii

GARRET VAN HORISTO

of that, aud could have listened forever to sweet adula-
tion. Certainly, it was almost as impossible t~ exagge-
rate her comeliness as it was to sate her with praises of
it, and the task was decidedly to my taste; but if I
ventured to breathe foi~'th the passion that consumed
me, she would curl her lip with an air of weariness that
would instantly have checked any less ardent lover. I
may have been stupid and ridiculous about it, likely
enough, for my love-addresses never arose to that
elegance of diction, nor exhibited any of that poetic
pathos which we learn from novels and plays invariably
characterizes the conrtships of other people, be they
rustics or gentle. I, on the contrary, was at such
moments, to speak frankly, less rational than at others.
Nevertheless, whether silly or not, I was certainly sin-
cere when I asked Lesbia what I could do-O, what
could 1 do to prove to her that I adored her-that I
worshipped her?
"Cease telling me of it," she replied, rather curtly.
"Lesbia, you are cruel. You know that is a task
beyond my powers. Do not deprive me of the little
consolation the expression of my love affords me. How
could I exist without it ?"
"Do you fear the worm that feeds on damask
cheeks ?"
"I may turn food for earthwornv~ before long if you
continue to treat me in this scornful way," said I, with
solemn silliness.
Great was her merriment at my woful expression, and
she laughed so long, looking the while so beautiful and
mocking, that I could have bitten her for sheer spite.
"Dear-dear, and has it come to this. Poor fellow, I

GARRET VAN HORN.

335

must surely pity him, or he may be driven to injure him-
selV'
"Lesbia, listen. The moment has at last arrived
which seals my fhte, one word from you"
"Mercy on me! Have I not sealed it often enough?
Do let it remain sealed."
"Miss home," said I, seriously, "a truce to your
jests. If I cannot gain your love, I believe I am
entitled to your respect. One who has been so devoted,
so attached as I have, might at least expect some little
return for his respectful homage other than ill-concealed
contempt and spurning words."
"So attached, so devoted, indeed! What a droll
creature you are. Pray, sir, did you ever, or do you
entertain any-any regard, for me ?"
"Regard! No-no--.LovE!! How can you ask such
a question~ ?" cried I, with a look of concentrated
reproach and affection.
"Begging your pardon, sir, I don't believe a word of it.
There is but one person you love sincerely and devotedly."
"Who ?" I inquired with surprise.
"Your own dear, darling-self!"
"Miss Home, grant me but an opportunity-give me
but a chance of proving my self-sacrificing, intense,
everlasting affection for you !"
"What would you do, pray? Could you resign your
mustaches-go ~~ithout your dinner-black your own
boots ?"
"Lesbia-Lesbia !-I beseech you! 0 that the age
of chivalry were yet that I might shatter lances for your
sake, and convince you by doughty deeds that all I say
is true !"

884


1''
1~~
ifl
n
Ii
Ii
Ii'
ii

GAR1~T 'VAN IIORN.

"But in these degenerate days that's out of the
question, isn't it? What a shame! And yet, perhaps,
you might do something in a-menagery, for instance.
Suppose I were to throw my glove into a tiger's cage, or
among the leopards and bears and monkeys, and bid you
return it to me. Could you-would you do it ?"
"Would I! Ten thousand famished tigers wouldn't
appal me in such a cause! Lesbian, you smile, but
believe me, I would cheerfully give all I possess for
one, but onO, opportunity of risking my life to save
yours."
"Indeed! that's magnanimous, I'm sure. Yet I
should not like to put you to the test, Sir Knight; I
fear me your heart might fail you at the juncture.
You're not excessively brave, or rather, I should say,
you re commendably cautious."
She meant merely to tantalize, but she stung me
sharply. Galled by her ridicule my mind was excited
to such a pitch that I was ready for any mad prank.
Did she deem me ~ simpleton? 0 for some test to
show her how she misjudged me! and to amaze her with
an exhibition of that reckless determined will, that I
could summon to resist any attack on my self-love!
I spoke not and turned my gaze sternly aside, while
she scanned my face to see how far I was angered.
We were fast approaching Ca~ptain's Island, and in a
trice I had formed a desperate resolve.
Lesbian began maliciously to quote: "Why so mute
and pale, fond lover ?" etc., while I sullen and silent
kept steering straight for the island. Presently, the
man at the bow sprang up and shouted, "Hard down,
sir-hard down! or we'll be on the reef!"

336

GARRET VA~ HO~.
Turning to Lesbia, I said, "Now you will see how
you have misjudged me."
JJard!y were these words spoken when the liebe
struck the rocks, stem on, with a dull, grinding,
wrenching sound dire to hear!
So great was her impetus that the shock overbalanced
me, and I fell heavily, striking my head against the
taiflail,
Soon as I gathered my scattered wits I caught the
painter to h~iul in the little yawl towed at our stern,
but unfortunately the boat was swamped. And what
dread seized me when I missed Lesbia! She was not
in the cabin, and in an agon~r of terror I ran about the
deck seeking her.
The sails obstructed my view towards the island, but
when I got forward, to my inexpressible relief and sur-
prise, I espied her in the water, and swimming, aye,
swimming like a very naiad! And this was the maiden
I was to win by rescuing her from a watery grave!
Demented loon!
But there was no time to lose, for the yacht having
listed was sinking fast, and so, accoutred as I was, I
plunged in and followed in Lesbia's wake. She was soon
ashore, and walked as briskly as she was able in her wet
garments to a dwelling near the light-house.. A woman
caine out to meet her, and in a short time she re-
appeared dressed in coarse blue-checked clothes and
looking none the less lovely for her involuntary bath.
My man and I had also obtained dry clothes, and we
all stood for some moments in sad contemplation of the
fate of the trim little ilebe, that lay now about ten
fathoms from the beach, submerged, the yeasty wave~
15


Ii

roUing over her deck and nothing visible but her mast
and sails. The sacrifice of a hare-brained lover at the
shrine of an obdurate mistress.
We borrowed a boat from the light-house kecpei',
and after a smart pull of four miles reached the Neck.
I own I felt very sheepish at my exploit and its
results; but Miss Home, to my surprise, took it all as
excellent sport. After we had landed and were walking
together up a lonely lane to the house, I said, "Have I
done enough, Lesbia, to prove that I am anything but
the ~eli~h, cowardly simpleton you took me for? I
have sacrificed a yacht costing me twenty thousand
dollars, and "-"--.
"0 dear, why did you say that? You've almost
spoilt it all. It's so Yankee-like, and mercenary to
estimate everything in dollars. You certainly did a
very, gallant, knightly act. To be sure, you gave me a
good ducking and endangered my life, and in revenge,
I could not possibly permit you to have the gratifica-
tion of saving it. Still I'll not disparage the most chi-
valrous deed that was ever done to win my applause.
Are you consoled ?"
She gave me her hand, as she said this, like a duchess,
and her fine eyes kindled with such an arch expression
of conscious triumph, that I, enraptured, bent low and
kissed her pink palm. Was I consoled? Aye, and
recompensed, for believe me, I could have wrecked
a squadron of three-deokers to win such thanks from
her!
How Laura stared and laughed to see us in our
strange apparel, and certainly, we looked ridiculous

enough. Of course, everybody condoled with me on the
loss of my yacht, and congratulated Lesbia on her
escape from drowning. But I was annoyed at the
many requests to relate and explain the mishap, and
more thau one covert' smile intimated that, either I was
a very nuskilful sailor or Lesbia and I must have been
at the time of the accident much pre-occupied with each
other. This latter opinion gained ground, and formed
the subject of many jests and witticisms, especially from
Elkanah Hobby, who was so exceedingly facetious at
our expense that Lesbia became greatly vexed, and
revenged herself by treating poor innocent me with a
degree of coolnes~ bordering on anger. Did that girl
love me? Had my long, ardent, sustained attack upon
her heart made any favorable effect? My conceit would
not allow me to believe she held me in indifference, and
yet, though she was generally friendly, familiar and
happy in my society, at times she became very distant
and cold, What caused this? Was it anything more
than a natural fickleness? Did she in reality entertain
a strong affection for me which she wished to conceal,
or was it all but the play of the flirt amusing herself
with a victim, like the angler with the fish upon his
hook? Perplexed by these doubts, I vented my spleen
in threadbare flings at the fickleness and vanity of
woman; as if man were not as conceited as she is vain,
as inconsistent as she is capricious, and in brief, as if he
were not in every way as weak and as incomprehensible
being as his companion, woman.
Two days after the wrecking of the Hebe, Lesbia
brought her visit to an abrupt close and returned home.

388          GARRET VAN HORN.                                       GARRET VAN HORNY          839

Ii

ii

888

839


I
ii.
if
ji
ii
i1
JIlL
F
a
'4
"I

GARRET VAN HORN.

She chose her moment of departure while I was at Cap-
tain's Island, disposing of the sunken yacht, so as to
avoid bidding me farewell. At least I fancied so, and
when I returned to ~Marshall's Neck and found her not,
I was in no amiable mood, you may well imagine, for my
sun had set, and a was hi a \ and desolate to me,
Speedily as I could, without appearing rude, I also
returned to New York in ~ chase of my lady-love,
to seek her once more, press her to an explanation, and
ascertain my fate. "Too long," cried 1, heroically,
"too long, cruel fair, hast thou trifled with an earnest
heart. I must know at once whether bliss or black
despair remains my destiny 1"
I called at "The Maples." Mrs. Parking informed me
that Mr. Home had gone to Canada, and that Miss
Lesbian had left the day before with some friends to
spend a week at Saratoga. Back I went to town, and
sent my man and horses up by that evening's boat to
Troy, while I made preparations to follow on the mor-
row, and the day after that, the correspondents of the
city journals informed an intelligent public of the im-
portant fact that "Count Van Horn" had arrived at
the Springs,-was lodging at the United States Hotel,
-had drunk five tumblers of Congress and three of
Empire water, before breakfast,-driven a splendid
pair of blood bays to the lake-.eaten fried potato-
chips, and much more news to the same purpose. here
I found, of course, acquaintances in abundance. The
young ladies were very amiable, the papas genial, the
mamas chatty and confidential, and I could not have
filed to enjoy myself had not the "polar-star of my
affections" shown unmistakable signs of displeasure at

GARRET. VAN HORN.

841

my persistent pursuit. There was no room for doubt
this time, Even my sanguine temperament could furnish
no other explanation of the glacial reception I met with.
If she were marble before, she was ice now. All my
little stratagems failed, my audacity was powerless,
flattery was of no avail, and my humble attentions met
only cold, inexorable rebuffs, the more pointed and
severe when contrasted with her cordial way of treating
other aspirants. To what could I attribute this? But
yesterday I basked in the sunshine of her smiles, and
now she seemed to regard me almost with aversion.
Was it caused by any act of mine? I-lad I unwittingly
wounded her feelings, or did she, 0 dreaded thought!
love another? Impossible! and yet I fretted and
fumed and raged~ like a melo-dr~matic villain at the
very idea. how ascertain the truth? Whom bribe
to spy and reveal to me what I might dread to
know?
To solve the enigma I essayed several expedients,
among them, that of turning hair-dresser for the pur-
pose of enabling me to visit Lesbia, incognito, and the
better to succeed in this design, took several lessons in
the management of the comb and brush, from Monsieur
Aristide Legros the world-renowned coiffeur.
It was the day of the closing ball of the season that I
officiated as Monsieur Legros' assistant. Miss Home
was at Congress hall with her friends, the Kemtops, and
the ladies were impatiently awaiting the arrival of Mon-
sieur Legros and his accomplished assistant. Legros
had forty female heads to dress that day, and conse-
quently he began his rounds betimes. I accompanied
him, disguised in a vile wig, spectacles, and French

840

II


111
f II
ft
it'
'I'
11
f1

accent.. Our first call was on the Bareges (firm J3arege,
Dalzorine &amp; Co., silk-johbers~, who occupied a cottage
at Marvin's. Old Mrs. Barege and three daughters.
Julia, the eldest, had passed for a belle the previous
winter and I had played her off on several occasions
against Lesbia. The palm of beauty wavered between
the two. Half of the young fellows were crazy about
Julia's "noble form," her "alabaster skin," and her
"magnificent coronal of hair." Even I had insisted
upon stealing a tress which I had kissed, and shown to
Lesbian to excite her jealousy. But, great and immortal
Jove! what a transformationn . Could that lankness in. a
long wrapper be Julia of the "noble form ?" Could
that pallid face, with leaden eyes and sparsely covered
scalp, make up the majestic head we all so much ad.
mired? And where, 0 where are those curls and tresses
*and braids? Th a green pasteboard box, reader, and
Monsieur Legros, as unconcerned as you please, set about
skilfully arranging the fictitious ornaments and inter-
twining them with what there was of the lady's hair-
the lady~ that had made such a to-do about the small
lock I had~ filched, and cherished, and~-pah! I shud-
dered at the welcomee discovery. AId Monsieur
Legros, the buck and the beau whose hair you curl or
dye despise you for a base ~'rench barber, but you, so
sly and close-mouthed, laugh2~n your sleeve at these
dupes b~-fooled by the wadded, wigged, and powdered
belles, you have seen in their natural ugliness.
Whilst my master was occupied with Miss Julia, I
waited on the younger Miss Bareges, whose sandy
queues were merely to be oiled, plaited, and be-ribboned.
When Monsieur had finished, Julia stood before the

843

mirror admiring herself, and mamma said, "How bee-
uty-ful! you look, my dear. If you don't fetch Van
Horn this night I'm mistaken." And she was mistaken,
grievously so, for I would as lief have been shackled to
a skeleton or to Cleopatra in her present condition of
rags and bitumen, as to espouse such withered 'allure-
ments in a slovenly peignoit.
I dreaded our next call. I feared some terrifying reve-
lation, some hideous exposure that would disenthrall me
a~nd rudely break my faith in the superlative beauty of my
goddess, Miss Home. But on recalling to mind how,
after her accidental dip in the Sound, she had appeared
glowingly radiant as Aphrodite rising from the sea-foam
I was reassured; and more than reassured, when in the
privilege accorded only to physicians and hair-dressers
we penetrated to the ladies' apartments, and I beheld
Lesbian in a simple attire more becoming than all the
elaborateness of a ball-costume. I was repaid a hundred-
fold for the trouble I had taken to effect this clandestine
visit, and for the fifty-dollar fee to Monsieur Legros.
He set me about doing the rough, simply combing the
hair in preparation for his master touches. I fairly
trembled with nervous delight as I touched thft elegant
head, and loosened and spread its long, plentiful, satin-
sheened, chestnut glory! What pleasure to palp those
soft, silken filaments; to droop them in careless curves
and rolls over the veined temples and cheek-roses, or
about the round white throat. And as I gathered them
into a thick mass, what an effort it required to refrain
from pressing my lips to the loved locks! No doubt
Lesbia thought me an awkward manipulator, for she
tossed her head impatiently twice or thrice; I could

842

If

GARRET ~ HORN'.

GARRflT ~ HQRI~'.


I ~~1i

345

have continued this dalliance till doomsday had not
ruthless Monsieur Legros ordered me, in French, to
wait on Mrs. Kemtop while he finished Miss Home's
co~ff'ure.
Gaulthier says, the Parisian comb achieves more
charming embellishments than the Athenian chisel.
Granted, if the former instrument be wielded by such a
master-hand as Monsieur Legros, who with some quick
weaving and a few rapid strokes of his comb could con-
struct fillets, volutes, beads, and braids as symmetric as
any cut from stone. -
His task accomplished, exclamations of surprise and
admiration at Lesbia's appearance arose from the other
ladies. "How lovely! How sweet! How nice! How
beautiful !" etc. Said Mrs. Kemtop; "J think, Lesbia,
the smitten ones will lie thick as autumnal leaves to-
night."
Lesbian smiled.
"As for that poor, hali~crazy Van Horn, it's all over
with him now. You will certainly extinguish the last
spark of reason remaining in his addled brain," con-
tinued Mrs. Kemtop with' a short laugh.
"I do hope the pertinacious fool will not annoy me,"
replied Lesbia, with the emphasis of vexation. "He's
such a conceited goose 'that he'll not take a dismissal,
sharp or blunt."
"Oh !-ow.---oo--.--o !" screeched Mrs. Kemtop, for in
my agitation at Lesbia's words I had unintentionally
given her back hair a sharp pull.
"..Vutor/ ma1adZroit-1~te!" cried Monsieur Legros
with admirable presence of mind. "J7~ t'en. I" added he,
pushing me away.

/

OARRET VAN 110RN'..

It was well he did so, and reminded me that I was for
the moment but a hair-dresser, or I would have betrayed
myself by retorting on, Miss Home with a stinging
reproof. "Pertinacious fool,"-" conceited goose !"
had she called me knave or villain, I could have borne
it; anything but her contempt!
I obeyed Monsieur Legros and went away, cut to the
core by her cruel derision. Alas! the adage had proved
but too true, and I had received the punishment of the
listener.
Angry,' sad, and crestfallen, I left Saratoga that
eveinng at the very moment the heedless throng of
pleasure-seekers were engaged in their frivolous joys.
My blood-bays and baggage were perforce obliged to
remain as hostages for the hotel-bill, which far exceeded
in amount the ready money I had brought with me.
As I landed in New York from the Albany boat and
was riding up Barclay street in a hackney coach, we
passed a gun-shop. I stopped and purchased a revolving-
pistol. What vague, insane- idea possessed me, I know
not, but I requested the man to load it. He did so,
scrutinizing me the while rather curiously. I placed the
weapon in my breast pocket, and proceeded to my
hotel.
There were several letters lying on my table: one
contained wedding-cards; another in black borders
announced the death of my aunt Mrs. Brinkerhoff;
two others were demands for money from tradesmen;
and one from the - Bank requested me to call and
make my account good, which was overdrawn some
five hundred dollars. I tossed it aside with a cynical
smile. The end was fast approaching. IAove lost and

~344          GARRET VAN HORN~

ill
Jr

8AA


J ~1I
U ill~I
t'~
111
I'll
*     II.

GARRET VAN HORN.

money gone! No matter', I had yet a few dollars left,
but not for the ignoble purpose of paying debts. Una-
ble to resist the depressing effect of the tumultuous
emotions that beset me, I resorted to that ancient and
universal specific for a wounded heart: wine! glorious,
invaluable, beneficent WINE!
I ordered a sumptuous supper to be prepared and sum-
moned a few roystering friends to enjoy it with me
There were Stanhope and Eugene Kenitop, Colonel
Fauquier of Virginia, Joe Hunter, and Fred Crosby;
jolly companions every one, and we feasted and we
rioted in right merry style. "Fortune, I defy thee 1" I
cried with a beaker of Beaune at my lips. "Do thy
worst !" I added through a mouthful of broiled wood-
cock. "Sing, boys, sing!" I shouted wildly, and with
dithyrambic glee we roared again and again, "0, Land-
lord fill the flowing bowl until it doth run over," etc.
At one o'clock in the morning we were 4i11 at table
except Eugene Kemtop who was lying asleep on a
lounge, and Joe hunter who was similarly occupied
under the table. The room was so full of blue tobacco
smoke that we could hardly distinguish each other. The
Colonel proposed a game of blufl "Hang bluff!" said
Fred Crosby (a passcd~1nidshipman) "lct'~ drink!" and
he knocked off the neck of a bottle of green seal impe-
rial champagne, frcpp~. Stanhope who could out-smoke
Vesuvius, kept indefatigably burning cigars between his
lips. I, having bawled myself hoarse, became some-
what, subdued. I was tipsy, my vision glazed and cheek
burning. I passed my arm around Stanhope's neck and
whispered huskily and confidentially in his ear. I
imparted to him all my sorrows and troubles, and drew

[

GARRET VAN HORN.

347

a rather incoherent sketch of my life from its earliest
stage. "Stanhope, my dear boy, you see before you
one doomed by dire destiny to blight and despair from
childhood's hour. Misery has marked me for her own.
Stanhope, you're the only friend I have now left in the
world. Your's is the only willing ear into which I can
pour my tale of wretchedness and woe." I shook hands
with him here for several minutes in silent agitation, and
then resumed: "Stanhope, behold a wreck! a dam
infernal contemptible wreck! Left an orphan at tender
years-thrown on the cold charity of the world-left
to struggle like a-like a - Stanhope! why wasn't I
strangled while I lay .a smiling, blessed babe in the
cradle ?" I shrieked. "Stanhope, you're my friend (I
again shook hands with him), you're my only and best
friend, and I can confide in you, but Stanhope, I've been
jilted! jilted, sir, ,and blasted-blasted in my tenderest,
budding affections! If I could only find a hovel in the
sandy desert of Sahara I'd go and live there, sir, like a
dam old hermit in a cell, this very instant, Stanhope, this'
very instant !"
"P11 tell you what you want, Van," said Stanhope,
lighting a fresh cigar. "Your liver's torpid, old chap, a
blue pill to-night and a Seidlitz pow "~.-
"Blue pills be hanged! Stanhope Kemtop," I exclaim-
ed, indignant at his proposal, "these 'are the only pills
and powder for a man in my condition, " and after much
fumbling in my pockets I drew forth the pistOl.
"Let me see it," a~ked he, and taking the weapon he
examuied it for a few seconds and returned it to me.
"I tell you, Stanhope, I had a good mind to put that
muzzle to my ear to-daly and pull the trigger. Life has

346

3


,1~i1~ii
Ii
If
848            GARRET VN HORN,
I I
it            become a blank and existence a thorn,  I tell you, Sir,
I've been shamefully blasted. My fondest hopes have
not only decayed in the ivorst possible manner, but have
been insulted as well, insulted, Sir, insulted! Oh! Stan-
I I I~        hope (now I drew pathetic), how I loved that girl. The
halo of her youth and beauty diffused a radiance of joy
over my arid heart such as-such as-~--Stanhope! you
ij~j        never could know, and I never could tell you how I
loved that girl." But I tried, nevertheless, for half an
hour to do so in an ejaculatory way and with tears in
my eyes, until Stanhope having fallen asleep in his chair,
I was equally overcome and slumbered peacefully beside
him with my face in a pie-dish.
A DENOUEME~
~ou~w myself in bed when
midday and I would probably
I not been disturbed by knockin~
information that a person was wal
me.
I arose, took a little nux-vorn
dressed myself hurriedly and ~
what the messenger wanted.
It was an old maid-servant of ~
"Why Ann," said I surprise
here ?"
"Shure, sir, your aunt's crazy
abri~ptly.
"Crazy 1" 1 repeated with a st
why-what do you mean?"
"Indade and it's true, sire Thc

~1T.
E awoke; but it was
have slept longer had
~ at my door, and the
~ting below to speak to
wa, bathed my head,
descended; wondering
~frs. Van Horn's.
d, "what brings you
~" i~eplied the woman,
~upeficd air. "Why-
~y're a going to take her


350         GARRET VAN HORN.                                        GARRET VAN EORN.         351

away to the mad-house this very day, sir, and I thought
I'd come and tell you~ for it's all the fault of her hus..
band, sir, that doctor."
"Sit down, Ann, sit down, and tell me what all this
means."
And the woman began to relate, in a rambling dis.
connected way, a story of terrible interest to me, and
from which I gathered the following revelations.
It was the story of an artful knave and his victim;
of the viliany of the one and the suffering of the other.
How, for many many years, the scoundrel Edmund Rose
had used my aunt Jane like a profitable slave; having
caused her long a go to fall into his power by stratagem,
and since that time living on the money he extorted
from the unfortunate woman by threats of divulging
certain proofs that would incriminate her, One of these
was a note, a mere scrap of paper with a few heedless
words which the simple woman had been inveigled, h
a fatal moment, into writing by the arch intrigue; a
wretched, ill-spelt missive, it was, with an unguarded
phrase or two of admiration, that were, perhaps, not
strictly improper, yet sufficient to compromise her in the
eyes of her stern, precise, uncharitable husband. By
means of this potent talisman Rose had possessed him-
self of her diamond ear-rings, the loss of which she
explained by the story ~f a robbery. This deception
sealed her fate. She was completely entrapped. The
schemer, armed with such additional and corroborative
evidence, held it over the hapless wife like an overseer's
whip, and forced her to supply him with the means to
indulge in a luxurious existence. But the poor woman
harassed by his constant and increasing demands and

often terrified by his threats, sank into a state of ener-
vated sorrow and sought relief in opiates. After the
death of her husband she ~was driven by the same nefa-
rious treatment into marrying her persecutor. His ill-
usage now, changed only from sharp torment to harsh
brutality; until her reason, already impaired by the per-
nicious habit of laudanum drinking, crumbled away,
and she w~s left a demented wreck.
Such we 'e, in substance, the disclosures imparted to
me, and which I heard at first with a nervous sort of
exhilaration and wonderment, which rapidly gave place
to intense anger. The enmity I bore him was increased
by this revelation of his long-continued, base, and cruel
machinations, to such a thirst for vengeance, that I was
prepared to seek and kill him at all hazards!
"God only knows," added the servant woman, "what
that poor la4y-has suffered. For the ten long years that
I waited on her, and seeing her a crying day by day and
me never a knowing as anything ailed but the pain
for which I bought the laudanum for her. Ah! sir, I
never know'd meself until six weeks ago, sir, this bles-
sed day, she told me all, for that very night, sir, she
thought she would die and she said she couldn't die till
she had told some one how she had suffered and what
her troubles was, poor old lady! and she told me all.
And I know'd, sir, as how she loved you like her own
son and I'd thought I'd tell you to see if you could do
anything to help her, for now her reason's gone and
they'll lock her up out ~' the way."
~' Who is with *her now, Ann ?"
"Shure there's no one with her now, sir, but Mr.
Rose, and his new man,"

4


352            GARRET VAN HORN.
"You had better return, Ann, at once, and be ready to
show me up to your mistress' room. I will be there
very soon."
I returned to my dressing room, pulled on my coat
and boots, put the repeating-pistol in my pocket, and
hurried off for Ufilversity Place.
Th~ man who answered my ring was a new domestic,
fdr I was unacquainted with him. I asked to see Mrs.
Rose. He said she was ill and unable to receive visi-
tors.
Without further parleying I went up stairs followed
by the man, who was probably surprised at my uncere-
monious way.
Ann was waiting at the door of her mistress' apart-
ment to admit me. I entered. There in a rocking
chair sat my Aunt Jane-a poor, wasted, white-haired
lunatic, crooning wildly, and rocking herself to and fro.
A broad leather belt was drawn across her thin body to
prevent her from rising, but when she noticed me she
pointed her skinny finger and gave a vacant, unearthly
laugh. 0 piteous sight! 1 turned aside unable to
bear the syectacle, and at that very moment Rose, who
had been summoned by his man, entered. lie demand-
ed, in a loud, imperious voice, what my business
was? Without replying, I quickly drew my revolver,
raised it at him and pulled the trigger. It missed fire,
and Rose threw up his arms in terror, screaming, "For
God's sake, don't murder me !" 'I cocked and failed again
(for Stanhope Kemtop had removed the caps the night
before), and then, wrought to a pitch of frenzy by my
unsuccess, flung the pistol at his head with all my might
and felled him. But his man seeing me disarmed

.11

GARRET VAN HORN.        358

instantly seized a heavy chair, dealt me a violent blow
on the back, which threw me down, and then beat me
into insensibility.
When I recovered I was in the hands of two police-
men who took me to the station-house, Rose preferred
his charge against me and I was locked up to spend the
night in duress.
ii sent a messenger for my valet Carter. lie came
and I gave him directions to dispose of all my effects,
settle some little bills, and retain the wages due lum.
I now resigned myself to fate, for I felt neither the
strength nor the inclination to stein the current of
adversity, so strongly setting against me.

Li
II
~1A
I
U
I 14


ChAPTER XXIIL
IN LIMBO.
J~ the Tombs. Twenty-four hours before I was
I feasting on woodcock and champagne, and now I
occupy a felon's cell.
It all seems like a dream-~---or a terrible drama that I
have witnessed, and the figure of my poor insane aunt
rises so vividly before me, that I can hardly banish' it
from my mind by any effort. But the poignant reality
is here. This narrow chamber, that coarse pallet, the
narrow slit admitting a few rays of light through the
thick stone walls, and the grated door are no figments.
And yet, why should I repine?
My life, I feel, is~ virtually spent, and for the remain-
der of my days I can have but one regret: that Idid
not kill Rose. had I succeeded in doing this, I could
have swung from a cross-beam with satisfaction!
I buy a newspaper from the boy who furnishes the

855

prisoners. The police intelligence contains the follow-
mo'.
ATTEMPT TO I~ILL-.--Yesterday afternoon, officers Smith and Jones
arrested Garret Van horn, a notorious adventurer, who has
figured somewhat extensively among our fashionables under the
alias of "Count Van horn," for a dastardly attempt upon the life of
our estimable fellow-citizen Dr. E. Rose. The doctor it appears,
was quietly walking out of his study, in his residence, No. -, Uni-
versity Phiice, when the desperado, who had surreptitiously entered
the house, rushed towards him with a levelled pistol; luckily it missed
lire, when the doctor promptly dealt his assailant a powerful blow
which prostrated him. Tie was then secured, handed over to the
police, and, after an examination, committed to the Tombs to await
the action of the Grand Jury.
The news of my misfortune thus spread far and wide,
and some acquaintances come to see me, but I refuse to
be made either an object of curiosity or sympathy.
One person insists upon speaking to me. It is Mr.
Pethcoe, Mrs. Van Horn's former attorney, lie has
heard of my mishap, he says, and he sincerely condoles
with me. lie has also heard (incidentally) of Mrs. Van
horn's misfortune, and he is sincerely sorry on her
account too. She is now insane, he understands. Since
Mi's. Van Horn's marriage, he has heard, incidentally (he
hears everything incidentally, that cautious man) that
Doctor Rose has disposed of the greater part of her
estate. Rather a singular man, Doctor Rose, he should
say, quite eccentric, in fact; so he has understood. Sad
affair-sacV affair! have I retained counsel? No. He
then mildly proffers the services of his son, a young
lawyer of great parts, who has had much success in
criminal cases, having thwarted justice in several critical

iII


356            GARRET VAN HORN.
instances, and if I desire it he will send him to me. bay
I xviii think of it; and finally, he says "Good day," and
nods himselPoff.
For the moment it is a relief to be imprisoned, the
stone walls shielding' me from an accusing world; and
it is no small consolation that Myndert's absence spares
me his knowledge of my condition. I am too apathetic
to think of any method Of release, and sit brooding
sullenly on my ill-luck with the pistol.
A rapping on the door-grating with a key disturbs
me. Another visitor: a woman this time, an elderly
and motherly one, who introduces herself as Mrs. Hogg.
Sure. enough, it is the wife of the old book-keeper, who
states apologetically that Mr. Hogg is bed-ridden and
unable to come himself and has therefore sent her to
offer services and a basket which contains sandiviches,
waffles, and fruit. Kind souls! and this from people
whom I had almost forgotten, who never crossed my
mind! How often in adversity do we find our only
friends among those whom we have neglected in our
.prosperity.
Mrs. llogg says that they had a hard time of it after Mr.
Hogg lost his place in A. Depeyster &amp; Co. He was so
trouble in mind that he fell sick, and they were obliged
to sell their little house to support themselves. At
length she opened a thread and needle shop-took in
pinking and crimping-and now, they would get along
comfortably enough, God be thanked! were it: not for
poor Mr. Hogg, who suffered so from dropsy. She
concludes by asking if she can be of service to me. I
beg of her to put my watch and chain in pawn, as
I shall need money to procure other meals than the

GARRET VAN hORN..       357

wretched prison fare. She returns with fifty dollars,
and bidding me farewell, promises to call and see me
again.
I am surprised that Carter does not come and render
account of his stewardship. Perhaps, has he de-
camped with the avails of my effects? Likely enough,
for my game is played and lost, and IL shall need him no
longer.
The cell I occupy is one of the lower tier, among
those containing men imprisoned for grave crimes.
In the opposite cells, I notice two or three faces
peering through their gratings at the new comer.
I am now an admitted member of the confraternity
of criminals and outcasts, of the few unfortunates who
suffer for the sins of the ~nany. And do they suffer?
See the reckless hardened mien of those two burglars
continually bantering each other; look at that mur-
derer, who poisoned his wife by repeated doses while
hypocritically sympathizing in her agonies; he lies
on his back all day long singing snatches of comic and
sentimental songs. Give them plenty of tobacco, and
who so happy as they? No remorse tortures them.
And why should they be more miserable than other
~xiortals? These be but a small portion of the world's
delinquents; the greater part passes unpunished and
undetected. For justice is not only blind, but stupid
and sycophantic. Revenge usurps her office, and the
form of crime is punished rather than the crime itself.
A famous, place this to philosophize, for in so much as
the muscles are inactive, and the body is cribbed and
confined, are the thoughts untrammeled and inclined to

J

Ii
I; i~
V
II?

4
t


858           GARRET VA~ HOR~                                                   ET 'VA~1 ~OR~'*        359

roam into the regions of reflection and analysis. A
prison is a museum of comparative morality, where
human nature presents itself in salient and phenomenal
forms. Within its bars we behold the incOngruity
and warped lQgic of society in its most glaring aspects;
unless, blunted by long familiarity, we have become as
insensible as that. turnkQy to whom assassins and pick-
pockets are alike.
A batch of prisoners have just arrived, transferred
from an up-town jail in the "Black Maria." Th~ most
of them deserve punishment as they are but penniless
vagrants. They have been found drunk, and shall be
penned for ten days apiece. I have been as tipsy as
they, and as disorderly, and so was Stanhope Kemtop
when we ripped off forty doctor and dentist signs i~i
one night, but what magistrate would have dared corn-
mit Alderman Kemtop's son and his friend? That
tall long-shoreman in resenting a blow from a ship-
master tore his assailant's ear with a cotton-hook,
Mayhem is a serious offence, and he shall go to Sing-
Sing for a few years, and his family must struggle
for bread as best they can. Fifty dollars might save
him, but where can he get them? My late revered
uncle never got into a fight, or struck a body in his life,
yet he brought more misery on his fellow-creatures
through easy, respectable, opium trafile and bubble
companies, than a thousand such ruffians as the steve-
dore.
In the "Penitentiary cell" beside ix~e, are three boys
discussing the histrionic merits of J. R. Scott and
Kirby. No way appalled, are they, by their condition.
Poor children! your parents were ignorant and ci4iiii-

nally poor or worthless, and you must suffer the
penalty.
Visitors arrive. Jiere is a Skinnerr," to whisper a
few words to Skippy the "cross-man," whom he xviii
soon extricate from durauce by that wonderful instru-
ment the habeas corpus. Next, the drab with powdered
cheek and leering eye to see her friend Chips, the
gambler, in for cheating a "yank" at a skin-game of
fare. In Chips I recognize the man in the fur-collar
who gave me a ride in his waggon that night of the
masquerade, and a smart natty f~lIow he is, with a
classic profile, and a frame like an Apollo, though the
sleeves of his claret colored frock-coat are Wo full of
swelling muscles to allow him to pass for a gentleman.
his grey eye is clear as a hawk's, and that cicatrix near
his temple he caught from a "greaser" when bravely
leading a storming column at Chapultepec, for Chips
commanded a volunteer company in the Mexican war.
Up to anything too that can be done with dice or
cards, and at home everywhere, at a Boston prop4able,
in a Pennsylvania Avenue hell dealing faro to con-
gressmen and senators; whirling a roulette4able on the
Metairic race-course; playing poker on a Mississippi
steam-boat; monte in San Francisco, or capping for the
thimble-riggers on the Centreville track. Chips knows
me by sight well enough, as who in the city does not,
and sends me his compliments and a box of Londres,
begging me to help myself. Why should I refuse?
Are we not both under the ban? I accept, and find
the cigars excellent.
We lose one of our number today, Mr. Israel Moritz,
who leaves us to spend a few years in the pJeasant

A

4~j
~jQ
jJ~

859


860           GAI~flflT V'A~' ~OIIN.
shades of Sing-Sing. Moritz was a most prosperous
and notorious receiver of stolen goods. Not one of
your groveling Fagins, by any means, but a stout,
black-whiskered, uoarse-lippedbe-jewelled Jew, owning
a cap-factory in Pearl street, and frequenting the opera,
and withal strict in the faith of his fathers, as his
festival-keeping and regular attendance at synagogue
testified. Go thy ways, Israel, not a whit more incon-
sistent or hypocritical art thou than thy Christian
brethren, man!
*    ,~   *   *    *    *    *    *
*   .*    *   *     *    *    *   *
I remained in prison six months, when Rose having
failed to appear and prosecute me, a lawyer for a few
dollars obtained my discharge, and I was again at
liberty. No victim of tyranny released from a twenty
years' incarceration in the Bastile, could have felt more
lonely and strange than I did in mingling again in the
busy haunts of men. I knew not whither to turn my
4eps. I was moneyless; Myndert was still abroad; and
[ knew no one from whom I would ask assistance.
Chance threw me in Chips the gambler's way, who
insisted on my going to his house in Park Place, I took
supper and slept there, but rather ashamed of having
accepted the hospitality of men whom I had formerly
looked upon with contempt, I left very early in the
morning~to wander about the streets in a dejected, pur-
po~ele~s way. I felt as if all that passed inc knew that
the gaudy butterfly had become a worm. I was aware
that sneers and malicious innuendos were rife about my
downfall, and had heard that my former associates
whose envy I had excited, punished me with jeering

GAflRET VAN ~IORN.            561
scorn, calling me a charlatan of fashion; a beggar on
horseback, who had arrived at his destination; fool,
swindler, and other similar epithets, whereby they
revenged themselves on mc for having in my days of
splendor betrayed them into snobbery and toadyisin.
And yet I had a strong inclination to brazen contempt
and flaunt, as it were, my misfortunes in their faces.
It was Sunday, a bright, tranquil day. Assuming a
smirking, jaunty air, while my heart was a lump of lead,
I walked up Broadway to a fashionable church. On my
way a kind4ooking man offered me a tract. I took it,
without eagerness, yet with something of the feeling
which induces a drowning man to catch at straws.
Religion has comforted others-has enabled them to
bear trials fav greater than mine, why should I not
resort to it? And whilst thinking thus and reflecting
on my wicked, ill-spent, selfish life, I arrived at the
church. I hesitated now to enter, or rather, I could not
enter in the vengeful mood that had impelled me there.
Subdued in spirit, I took a retired seat. This house of
worship was a gorgeous one. Religion had not only
been petrified, but upholstered and painted as well.
here was nothing consonant with tristful thoughts or
aching hearts. In came the splendid congregation step-
ping silently over the soft carpets, rustling silks, waving
plumes, and filling the cushioned pews with youth and
beauty, old age and decrepitude, innocence and vanity,
benevolence and selfishness, virtue and vice. The organ
pipes pealed forth their swelling harmony; the loud
anthem and song of praise resounded beneath the
groined roof, filing the heart with awe and gratitude,
but I remained untouched. The minister was an elegant
16


lix
II
ii
U

GARRET VAN HORN.

II

GARI~flT VAN IIORN.

863

man. His hair was glossy, his teeth white, his hands
snowy, in short, he only lacked intellect, lie was very
effective in pressing at short intervals a cambric l)and-
kerchief to his delicate lips, but his sermon was shallow
and trite, and yet grave and reverend seig~ors sat
beneath his teachings year after year.
A cynical imp possessed me; I could not listen, and
everything seemed but a mockery of devotion. The
dandy, effeminate ecclesiastic in the pulpit dilating so
unmeaningly on the vanity of riches was sedulously
wooing the wealthiest ewe-lamb of his flock, whose only
atti~action was her money. And the other performers,
those in the organ-loft? The organist, a hebrew, is
reading a newspaper, and the soprano, a pretty and
clever actress from Niblo's, is peeping over the gallery
at some young-men admirers who attend solely to hear
her melodious warblings. See the audience, or rather
the congregation, for but few are listeners, some old
people tottering feebly towards the grave and anxious
to propitiate the great Judge, and enthusiastic maidens
who love the voice of the handsome preacher and unti-
ringly admire his brow and hands, Cora Goldistone, for*
instance, sitting yonder beside her brother Gansevoort,
whose leaden eyes and jaded face tell of three o'clock
in the morning at Pat Ilearn's, "passing buttons," and
"fighting the tiger." In front of the pulpit sits promi..
gently Mr. Kenatop, who read the responses from his big
gilded book in such a profound and pompous way. lie is
now continually nodding off to sleep and is as often
nudged back to stupid surprise by the point of Mrs.
Kemtop's parasol, until he keeps himself awake thinking
of his dinner, and whether selling Erie "short," wouldn't

362

be a good spec. How much envy and covetousness is
now wringing the heart of those sweet damsels and
placid dames; and how much sloth and languor numbs
the minds of their papas and lords? Are there any
true worshippers here-~--any filed with earnest love of
their Creator? Doubtless as sincere ones as ever gather-
ed in a Puritan conventicle, and yet how few in com-
parison with the host of Mammoii-worshippers and
folly-worshippers, that fill this sanctuary. Aweary with
such reflections, I read the tract given to me in the
street. it reminded inc strongly of that story-book for
children, entitled, "Little Margaret; or the Danger of
playing with Fire." Its moral was as obvious and its
logic as effectual, It told of a man who once a
drunkard, swearer, Sabbath-breaker, and infidel, had
been brought by the influence of religion from vice and
indigence to wealth and respectability, concluding thus:
"And now Thomas II- is mayor of his native city,
owner of several warehouses, and an influential member
of the church." And is this the reward of the followers
of Jesus, wealth and warehouses? Are ease and com-
fort and station, the baits to win souls to Christ? Is
thrift indeed, as Shylock says, blessing? As I thus
cogitated, a rising and fluttering of the assemblage
reminded me that the service was at an end, and I
brushed my way through the throng of resplendent
sinners as the organ filled the sacred edifice with enll~
evening strains from Meyerbeer's opera of Robert Ic
Diable.
The dandies, deeply impressed with the sermon they
had heard, were clustered about the porch and vestibule,
sucking their cane-tops, and reviewing the sallying

ii
I
4


GARRET VAN HO~f.          865

864            GA1U~ET W~" HOB~.

belles. Here, in mogul-like importance comes Mr. Keim.
top growling to his wife as he settles his fat chin in his
stiff cravat, "Ver' fine discourse-ver' fine-um---um~"
I slink aside to avoid recognition and hasten oft mutter-
ing to myself, Away with such vanity and folly, such
mockery of worship, insipid routine and spiritual bread-
pills! Let me seek the contact of intellect and draw
from its vigor, sustenance and tone for my disordered
soul.
I went to hear a celebrated preacher whose renown
had reached every corner of the land; He was one of
the lions of the town, and country visitors made it a
point to attend his church as much as they did to go to
High Bridge or the Museum. lie was a prominent
advocate of many theories for the Advancement of
Man, and styled himself a Philosopher and Seeker.
Orthodox ministers, shocked at his heresies, denounced
him as a deist-a pantheist-an infidel, and bade their
flocks beware of him as a dangerous man.
lie was, indeed, possessed of much intellect, earnest-
ness, and eloquence. his rhetoric flowed like a majestic
$tream, limpid, glittering, and resistless. All was beau-
tiful and polished. Periods were rounded and the
jewels of imagery used with the skill of a master. He
bad studied in the Universities of Germany and delved
assiduously in the mines of metaphysical lore. He had sat
at the feet of Ilegel, Strauss, Fenerbach, and they had
taught hiin-what? That they knew nothing and that he
was as wise as they ~were. And still like the Danaides
he plied his fruitless task, still whirled around an axis,
or like the imprisoned bird beat himself against the
bars. The crowded and critical assemblage hung

delighted on his words; they admired the construction
of his lecture; they were as guests at a grand repast
and he fed them with luscious fruits and delicious cates,
but no congeniality of soul cemented them, and each
J)ursued his thoughts and purposes as best beseemed
tim, looking to the preacher not as a teacher but rather
as an aspirant to his applause. Oscillating from doubt
to doubt, the orator~ lacked the vitality of faith, and
never soared to those enipyrean heights from which
the inspired divine hurls thunderbolts at cowering Evil,
or with lips touched with hallowed fire softens the heart
of flint.
how could such a man, a seeker himself, supply the
wants of a hungry craving soul? Let me leave, I
exclaimed, these amateur devotees, this school of
Eclectics. Let me seek among the lowly, among those
of simple faith and uncorrupted by riches, the stan-
chion to uphold me from the abyss ~f doubt and
despair!
I went to a chapel in B- Street.. It was a small,
plain, wooden building, from which any thing resembling
the cruciform in its construction had been carefully
avoided. Here worshipped a congregation of Came-
ronians, mostly Scots or people from the north of ireland,
stern, bony-featured folks they were, in sad-colored
clothes and looking as if their rigid faith had petrified
them. Ilon6st men these and self-denying, save in
regard to whiskey and money-hoarding, and true as
steel to their creed, ready if it need be to walk to the
stake singing psalms or with ja~v set to "trust in the
Lord and charge with your lances," like the Ironsides
of old Nell.

864


8(3(3      GARRET VAN HORN.                                   GARRET VAN HORN.       367

Here were no raiments of purple and fine linen, no
stained glass and gaudy trappings, no organ (for as one
of them expressed it, they did not believe in worship-
ping God with a "box of whistles"), no honied homilies,
or eloquent lecture. The preacher disdained the beauti-
ful and employed not the flowers of oratory. lie meant
to be a true soldier of the cross, and no trifler or carpet-
knight. In appearance he might have sat for the pic-
ture of a Grand Inquisitor. Wiry and wasted, the
light of zeal and intolerance burned in his cavernous
eyes. His harsh lineanients, square chin, and thin lips,
all told of his uncompromising, inexorable faith and
determination to battle to the last against any and all
the opposing powers. On this particular occasion he
tilted at the Pope. And how fiercely he attacked that
triple-crowned potentate! Tooth and nail, mauling
him, battering him, and banging his rusty keys about
his venerable pow until the poor old successor of St.
Peter cannot possibly have recovered from it to this
very day. He exhibited the enormities of the lady in
scarlet in a lurid light, lie told us all about the Inqui-
sition, the Auto-da-f4s, the massacre of St. Bartholomew,
in such a scathing, demolishing way that, figuratively
speaking, he left not one stone of the Church of Rome
upon the other. And what did he prove? That wicked
bigots had been recreant to their creed, not that their
creed was an erroneous one, for whilst he was repeating
those stale stories of fanatical cruelty, and denouncing
the abhorred church as idolatrous, I bethought me ol
the gentle Sisters who had watched by my bedside and
coQled my ~ngi~ish-wrung brow when I lay burning with
fever on the hospitaL bed in Algiers.

Of what use was such a sermon? There was proba-
bly not one Roman Catholic present. I came not to
hear of the errors of other faiths, but to discover the
virtues and seek relief from his own; and he tendered
me instead the bitterness and anger of dialectics.. He
sowed salt, and was killing every germ of repentance in
my heart. I turned away in disgust. All-all is hol-
lowness! forms, cant, or bigotry!
There was no voice to bid me hope and simply whis-
per: Seek not thy God through the mediation of man.
Beseech his love and it shall be given to thee. His
word is open, read, pray, and the scales will fall fi~om
thy blinded eyes. Contrition can cleanse the blackest
sinner even as the leper touched by Jesus. God's grace
is universal, and restricted not by the formulas of man.
Some one tapped me on the shoulder as I was leaving
the chapel. I turned; it was old Cluny the gardener.
My heart beat at the thoughts his presence brought to
my mind.
"I ower glad to see ye in this path," he said.
"Thank you, Cluny, thank you. How is" (I hesi-
tated), "Mr. home ?"
"Mr. home-ha' ye na heard the sad news
"Sad news! Cluny, what sad news ?"
"Ha' ye na heard aboot Miss Lesby ?"
"About Miss Lesbia! Why man, what mean you ?"
"Ah, sir," said the old man shaking his head, "what
with their feddlins and feasting, their card-playing and
masquerading, na gude ever cam' fra sic dcii's wark."
"But what is it-what is it ?" cried I, impatiently.
"Ah sir, it's a sair thing for Mr. Rome. He set hi~
heart on warldly things and affections, and he kens now

U


868           GAI~ET VA~ HORN.
the vanitee o' worldly affection. He forsook the love o'
God for the love o' bairns, and now"-
"Cluny-Cluny, what is it, man? Is Miss Lesbia
(lead ?"
"Na-na--worse na' that."
"Worse! what do you mean?"
"You ken that docther-him with the lang neb ?"
I' Dr. Rose ?"
"Aye-wed--she ganged awa' wi' him."
"Gone away with him! Good God! Cluny, is it
possible ?"
"It's mair than posseeble-but, tak na the gude Lord's
name aboot it. It'll na' mend matters."
Lesbia Home eloped with that extraordinary scamp,
Doctor Rose! I cannot describe my amazement, when
the old gardener told me that. By dint of questioning
I extracted the following particulars of the affair from
him. It had occurred some~ three months previous.
Doctor Rose, after having placed his wife in the lunatic
asylum, gradually turned all the property he held in
trust for her into ready money, and departed in a steam-
ship for Europe. Lesbian accompanied him. The infatu-
ated gii'l left a note addressed to her father, begging his
forgiveness and stating, in extenuation of her conduct,
that she had so long and ardently loved the Doctor that
life without him was valueless. He would soon get a
divorce from his mad wife, and aware that she could not
obtain her father's consent to such a marriage had
taken a venturesome step in the hope that time and
absence would mollify his anger, and enable her to return
home the happy bride of her dear Edniund, and obtain
her father's pardon, etc. etc.

GARRET YAN HORN.

869

The stroke was an overwhelming one to Mr. home.
From frantic rage he fell to whimpering grief, and one
long, long night of agony, laid the weight of twenty
years on his gray head, and left him a haggard, misera-
ble man, weary of his existence. How cruel a blow to
come from an only child and etted daughter! And
moans and lamentations gay ace to execrations and a
thirst for revenge.
having ascertained that the fugitives had sailed for
Liverpool, the agonized father with fierce determination
followed immediately in pursuit, to seek the despoiler
and slay him ~vith vengeful joy. 0, how I seconded his
intent! how I wished for an opportunity to punish the
treacherous and wily villain wh~ had tracked me through
life like an evil spirit; who had lured me into pit-falls;
th~varted all my plans; used me like a puppet, and
robbed me Qf fortune and love! I could have cloven
his black heart without the least compunction; nay~
with rejoicing. 0, why did that confounded Stanhope
Kemtop tamper with n4 pistol? How much unhappi-
ness would the death of that villain Rose have prevent~
ed even were my worthless life to have paid for his.

I
4141
I
I

Ii


CHAPTER XXIV.
THE DARK HOUR BEFORE DAWN.
day of brilliance hid ~ and now caine
ight-gloorny, melancholy nio~ht?
My ill-spent, foolish life had borne its fi'uit, and I was
left with crushed spirits, impaired health, and only
energy enough to curse my birth. Like a rudderless
ship, I yawed with distracted mind from one purpose to
another, until I sank into torpidity and reached that
pitiable stage of ruined man when retrospection and
reflection become a torture. When the pbor wretch
cannot repent, for he dares not undergo the fearful
oi'deal of thought-.-and without burning, searing, scar-
ring thought, there can be no reformation. I fell into the
mire of degradation, into that lethal ooze where the
spiritless, enervated man, feels but tl~e promptings of
his appetites and craves only those potent liquids, either
sedatives or stimulants, whose properties can extinguish

GARRET VAN HORN.         871

any rising pang and afford but one moment of peace
and gratification. With a fearful facility I yielded to the
influence of alcohol, and was in dull anguish until its
subtle, nimble fire interfused my shattered system. I
sank to a perilous point; so far as to herd with the
vilest of the vile and to accept liquor from the lowest.
*    *    *    *   *    *     *    *
*    *    *    -*  *    *    *     *
*    *    *    *   *    *     *    *
To such a depth had I fallen when, thank God! a
brother's grasp drew me from the slough and saved
me.
During this time of my abasement, I still preserved
enough of self-respect to slink away from the kicks of
a cold selfish world, and hide me from familiar eyes.
~ either relatives nor acquaintances knew what had
become of me. In particular, I carefully shunned Myn-
dert, who had returned from Europe to find himself
ruined in fortune through the dishonesty of an agent. I
feared to meet the man whose fraternal love I had
repaid, during my short-lived magnificence, by total
neglect. Fortunately, chance threw us together for I
would have died rather than voluntarily seek him.
My haunts were Catherine Market and its vicinity,
and I subsisted on the few shillings earned as helper to
the market-men, which pittance was chiefly expended in
buying the vile witch-broth sold at the neighboring
dram-shops.
One hot summer afternoon, overcome by the stupor
of inebriety, I lay on a vacant stall to sleep when some
vagrant boys began pelting me with potatoes a~jid cab.
bage-stalks. Enraged at this, I ran into the street to

V

-dL


give them chase. The young ragamuffins surrounded me,
yelling and hooting, pulling me by the coattails hither
and thither, while I staggered and fell in drunken efforts
to seize my tormentors. At this moment, a gentleman
who was driving byin a gig pulled up to observe the scene.
Suddenly he sprang out, caught me by the arm, and
lifted me like a child into his vehicle. Something like a
groan escaped him as he resumed his seat, and giving
his horse a sharp cut he drove rapidly away as the crowd
of boys, balked of their liutt, raised a shout of derision.
I looked at my rescuer for some moments in a hebetated
way, until, getting a faint idea of who he was, I fell
asleep.
The next morning I awoke in Myndert's mould-loft,
and found myself lying in a hammock which he kept
for his occasional use. My knowledge of what had
occurred was rather confused, but I was full of joy at,
having been discovered by my brother; yet I dreaded
meeting him, and could have taken to my heels when I
heard' his footstep near. It was very early when ho
came, but little after daybreak, and no workmen had
arrived. He found me sluggish and feeble, and throw.
ing me some clothes he had brought he pointed to
a bucket of water, bade me cleanse myself, and cast
away the filthy garments I had on. I obeyed him in
silence, and after I had undergone a thorough ablu-
tion and was attired in the clean linen and decent
apparel, he put some brandy in a tumbler and held it to
my lips. "Drink it 1" he commanded as I hesitated, for
I feared he meant to moek me. "Drink it! you've
tasted it before."
He was harsh and I preferred it. I could not have

withstood kind words from him at that moment. After
drinking the liquor, I felt braced and better able to con-
front his anger,. and he spared me not. "That's the
last-mind you.-the very last dram you shall. ever
drink Mind what I say. I've set you up ~o knock you
down. Touch it again and I'll drown you I I'll have
no drunken sot for a brother, my father's son shall not
wallow like a hog while I live. Our blood don't breed
paupers and beggars-the Van Horns are . men, not
swine! Brandy and wine are for men-men with self-
resp6ct and will, and not for such weak-marrowless----
despicable-idiotic wretches as you are !" In this strain
he continued, lashing me severely and pitilessly, and
his invective cut me like a wired thong. The first blows
struck out some sparks of latent pride, but as the
strokes were redoubled, I winced like a whipped hound.
I could bear it no longer and turning away, my eyes
moistened, and I covered my face in shame as his tor-
rent of vehement reproach and sarcasm fell and crushed
me.
He ceased abruptly, and bade me follow him. I went
like a cowed child. lIe set me to work in the yard at a
simple task, and. from that moment hewatched me like a
jailer. I was beneath his eye almost continually, lie
took me with him in his .gig when attending to his
business in the lower part of the city, and we occupied
the same sleeping apartment at night. The first week
or two, I suffered all that remorse and bitter reflection
could inflict on an unstrung and abused man. But
Myndert'was a. skilful physician, and his wrath proved
an excellent tonic. In a month there was a great
improvement in my mental and physical condition;

372           GiiiRE~r VAN }IO1LN.                                          RET. VAN ~!OR~.         ~73

872

.M3


87%

GARRZ~ VAN HOR~

Myndert had become kinder to me, still his. vigilance
was not relaxed. I was advanced to more laborious
tasks and enrolled among the other artisans, keeping the
same hours, and receiving the pay 'of an apprentice.
Under this energetic treatment, and what with lugging
and lifting timber, turning the grindstone, and swing-
ing the maul, my flaccid muscles toughened, my slack
nerves recovered their tension, I regained energy and a
clear brain, I was saved from a woful death, and all by
a brother's unfaltering love and devotion.
In house :No. - Avenue A, second story front, com-
manding a fine view of Tompkins Square, I am sitting.
I have just finished the three hundred and odd pages
of lucubrations which the reader, if he have followed
me thus far, has perused. It. is I 1~1. x'.~x., August 20th,
1 86-. My brother Myndert is sleeping in the bed
beside me, calm and peaceful as a child. The room is
scantily furnished and books occupy a larger space in it
Lhan anything else. We might have finer quarters, cer-
tainly, but Myndert, you know, is an honest fellow and
as he is working with other people's money, he is as
careful of it as if it were his own. His scheme of a
Mutual-benefit Industrial Association fell through, as I
told you, owing to the rascality of the man whom he
had trusted the most; and now he is working hard to
retrieve lQst time and fortune.. I am his journeyman and
can handle the adze and drive the plane with the best
wright iii the yard. I am no longer a drone, but by
&amp;duo~e, honorable toil, earn .my food and eat it with a

875
relish unknown to the indolent gastronomer. I sleep
soundly from eve till morn, and have re-obtained a price-
less elasticity of spirits. I have learnt to subdue con-
ceit, false pride, and envy, and to practise self-denial. I
am endeavoring, and may God assist me, t~ lustrate my
heart, to uproot therefrom every evil, noisome weed, and
to cultivate humility and virtue.
Thus have I become a philosopher, a philosopher
among the chips; and for the first time in my life do I
feel that serenity of mind Which springs from content-
ment. My lot is a humble one; my earnings are small,
yet large enough to supply the wants of a bachelor and
enable him to lay aside for impotent age.
Xow I am. as happy as a mortal may be. I enjoy
books, nature, and toil. I have a few friends and a
brother whose affection I have proven ten-fold; I have
health and reason, what more could I have?
What, it may be asked, has become of the other
actors in this eventful comedy? How can I tell?
What do we know of the fate of the many companions
that have walked beside us for a longer or shorter dis-
tance on the way of life? Some have fallen by the
road-side, and others have separated to follow different
paths. Vague news reaches us at times of the fortune
or misfortune of this one or that one, until we forget them
and they forget us, One only have I anxiously sought to
know of and more anxiously sought to thrust away that
knowledge, from my mind, when obtained. She was in
Paris, I learnt. Her father had traced her thither, but
the encounter between them had proved too much for his
s6rrow-weakened frame, and he fell dead in her presence
from an apoplectic stroke. Horror-stricken at this, the


aAI~REtT~ YA~ 'H0R~?,

unfortunate girl plunged madly into, the vortex ol
Parisian folly and dissipation to drown distracting
thought; and now, any day', may be seen on the great
avenue of the Champs Elys6es a sumptuous equipage,
with livened lac
well-known    queys, on whose satin ,cushions bus a
queen of the Jemi-moncle, who is none other
than the once innocent and happy Lesbia Home.
Imay add, in conclusion, that my unfortunate aunt
Jane has been released by merciful death from all her
earthly troubles;' and that her niece Laura, my quondam
fiame,~ is now the happy wife of Eugene Kemtop. his
mother, they say, engineered the match, and so secured
a good and wealthy spouse for her son. The young
couple live in great style and are reckoned among the
cream of our best society. I met her by accident not
long since, and in a way to test the disposition of a. fine
lady. She and her husband were in their carriage at
one of the Brooklyn ferries awaiting to cross the river.
ii happened, just then, to be employed on a ship close by
that needed repairs. Laura saw me, and I ~vent imme-                           (
diately to shake hauds with her. To be sure, I was in
my working clothes with my coat oft' and shirt-sleeves
rolled up, but this did not dampen her greeting in the
least. Her husband, I noticed, reddened and looked
somewhat dumb-founded at my audacity, but Laura
was as cordial as possible; invited me to come and see
them; and kept me talking until Eugene got impatient.
Bless her for a true-hearted woman! there's nothing of
the snob in her, at all events.
And now, reader; kind, fair, good, or gentle, as the
case may be, Farewell!
TUE END,


  
             
         
       
   
