
    ----CITATION----
        Remick, Martha.. Richard Ireton .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7557
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Richard Ireton 
            
                 RICHARD IRETON; A LEGEND OF THE EARLY SETTLEMENT OF NEW ENGLAND. By MARTHA REMCK, AUTHOR OF "AGNES STANHOPE,' AND "MLLICENT HALFORD." BOSTON: LORING, PUBLISHER.    RICHARD IRETON, CHAPTER I. IN one evening, two hundred years ago,- the exact date of the year we are not able to find, but the month was Febru- ary,-a fashionable London lady's house was ifiuminated for a brilliant reception. Conspicuous among the beautiful women in the throng of guests was a young girl whose hand was eagerly sought for the dance, and whose notice was supposed to convey the highest honor. She was known to be betrothed to a young gentleman of family and wealth, and no one could build hope upon her smiles, yet thero   8       Richard Ireton. was one of her lingering admirers who still acted the part of a devoted lover. It was Richard Ireton who claimed her hand for the second dance when her privileged bride- groom led her from the floor; it was upon Rich- ard Ireton's arm she passed to the refreshment room, and, later, into the green room, the lovers' place, where fragrant walks, bordered with beau- tiful blossoms, invite to a flow of sentiment and confidence. More than one curious pair of eyes followed the young couple, and many penetrating glances searched out Mr. Landerdale on the spot where he stood, burning with anger under the mortifica- tion of Miss Faredyce's publicly paraded indif- ference to himself. One among the crowd, a lovely young girl, in her first season, lost the bright roses from her cheeks in her fear of what might happen if Mr. Landerdale should be hurried by passion into making a scene, and take it upon himself to punish the man who was tri- fling with his rights. A few hard words might bring on a duel, and this seemed the easiest and most natural way, to all the lookers on, of settling this matter which had gone on for days and   Richard Ireton.       9 weeks until it had become a matter of public scandal. But this young girl, whose fair cheek paled at the thought of danger to the unworthy intruder upon another's rights, was Lucy Ireton, who would have sat neglected through the ball, but for the occasions when her cousin, Richard, had made his way to her corner to take her out on the floor, and afterwards introduced her to a friend of his for the next dance. No one look- ing at this English face, with its sunny blue eyes and frame of golden hair, would have believed this young creature to be of French extraction, educated in a convent, where her life had opened as sad and lonely as it continued to be in her Aunt Ireton's house. The young lady might have spared her fears for the time at least, and the gossips their predic- tions. Mr. Landerdale was too well. bred to make a scene; he reserved what he had to say for a more fitting occasion, and took his fiance's hand from the arm of her escort with a bow of dismissal to the gentleman which show6d only a quiet contempt. Ireton turned away with a frown, fully re- solved to ask the lady to elope with him, and he   10        haichard Ireton. hardly doubted his eloquent persuasions would induce her to take this dishonorable step. There was indeed little promise of wedded' happiness inl the looks of the couple as they took their places with the dancers. Miss Faredyce's wrist ached with the grasp of her betrothed's hand a moment before as he drew it upon his arm, and she was wondering in her thoughts if there was really no door of escape from the completion of her fast approaching marriage. When the 13all-room began to grow thin, Lucy Ireton was handed into her aunt's carriage, after her aunt, followed by her cousins, and wept silently and unobservedly under her wrap pings, for the poor child was wearied with the excitements of the night in which she had had so little part, and troubled with fears and fore- bodings. The ball had been a brilliant success, even if this young debutante carried a heavy heart' from it, and this fact was realized fully by the Iretons. Mistress Annie Ireton had been made happy by a long expected avowal of love from a Hertfordshire squire, and Mistress Alice Ireton had received marked attention from Lord L -,            -  . -    Richard lreton.       " All persons feel, more or less, the re-action after a ball, when the drawing-rooms, with th r lights, flowers, music, rich costumes, jewels, and sparkling faces, are swept out, and the debutan- te, or belle, descends at noon to the breakfast room with its coffee, and rolls, and the review, perhaps, which follows the ball. If the right one did not ask you to dance, and your rival was exquisitely dressed, it will be a dreary review; but nothing of this kind was in waiting at Madame Ireton's breakfast - table. The mother glanced with satisfaction over her eldest daugh- ter's engagement, and was scarcely less happy in the prospects of the younger. Richard had set out on a morning journey for Hampshire, where he was called by business. Lucy, alone, wished she could have found all the events of the night past a dream; a presenti- ment of coming evil pressed upon her; she wish- ed it was May, and not February, and that she, too, was going into Hampshire, never to return to this foggy London.   CHAPTER II. WHLE the Iretons sat around  their cheerful breakfast table, the storm which gathered outside the windows was roll- ing up on a Hampshire moor, where a few hours later, a tragedy was to be enacted bringing grief and sorrow to their home, a sorrow never wholly to be put away, but which would go with them to the borders of the grave, mak- ing an ineffaceable -stain on their hitherto un- sullied family name. Richard Ireton returned from his journey after three days' absence; he went, first, to his chambers, and then, as usual, to his father's house, where he found company assembled, his aunt, Lady Seavey, and her daughters. Ireton was looking miserably ill;. his business had been of a fatiguing character, he said, in answer to Lucy's timid inquiries, and he seemed to be in a gloomy mood which changed, after the ladles had left the table, to feverish excitement over an unusual indulgence in wine.   Richard Ireton.      13 "It is a pity Miss Faredyce's family should have persuaded her to an engagement with Mr. Landerdale," said Madame Ireton, in the draw- ing-room, to her sister. '"There is no love be- twyeen them, I am told, and Miss Faredyce would have preferred another party. She is an heiress in right of her mother, besides what her father may have to settle upon her,-and altogether a very good match." "It is a pity, " repeated Lady Seavey, think- ing of her nephew, for the gossip was not new, and Annie and Alice each drew a gentle sigh over their brother's disappointment. Lucy, with pale lips, alone remained mute, while Lady Seavey asked when the marriage was to be. A drizzling storm kept the visitors in-doors, and- by and by a strange piece of news came to arouse them from their dullness. It was to the effect that Mr. Landerdale had disappeared and none knew of his whereabouts. He had quitted his lodgings to be absent only two or three days, eight had passed, and a search was about being instituted. "Some -idle whim keeps him   away," said Madame Ireton, smiling her contempt of. the J   "      Richard Ireton. story, and the flow of light talk went on as be- fore, while the ladies wrought at their embroid ery until the electrifying tale was told that the corpse of the missing man had been found, on a lonesome Hampshire moor, with the proofs of foul play in a bullet wound in the breast. It must have lain there for more than a week in the slimy mud,'the face upturned to the dark heavens whose gloom the sun had not broken once in that time. This poor young man had had but one enemy, and pale and agitated Madame Ireton left her silent visitors to go to her son. He had just come into his chamber and was busy with his toilet before descending to dinner. "Richard, have you heard the news?" said his mother. i; Mr. Landerdale's body is found,- the poor young man! He was found dead on Hampshire heath. Who could have done it?" Mr. Ireton was standing before a mirror. His face was composed and but little paler than usual. "I heard of it as I came in," he said. "It is very sad. It is most likely he shot himself, as his pistols were found by him. " Madame  Ireton was re-assured; a great   Richard Ireton.      15 anxiety left her mind. The explanation was: natural; the young 'man was beside himself with love and jealousy ard had madly taken his life. She went on to the dining-hall where her family were assembled with sober faces, and they were joined by Richard. Lucy did not come down; she was sick with a headache, one of her cousins said, and wished to be excused to her aunt. Very little but the shocking tragedy was talk- ed of, and very little was said of that, for Rich- ard's feelings were respected. When the gentlemen were left to their wine, Mr. Ireton said to his son he hoped he would be able to prove an alibi if inquiries should be put to him. "I may not be able to account for every hour, Sir, " said his son, helping himself to his fourth glass. "I was in Hampshire and my business led to a good deal of traveling. " Mr. Ireton, senior, relapsed into uneasy silence; his son's position in this matter might be fair enough, but he would have been pleased if he had been able to clear himself fully from suspi- cions in the disagreeable circumstances likely to come up. Poor Landerdale had had but this one enemy, and when two men are in love with   16      R"ichard - Ireton. the samne woman, and the least loved has the strongest claim, there can but be one- feeling between them. It was a shock to Mr. Ireton when, late that night, his son was arrested, and after wearing away the few hours which followed as best he could in soothing the terrors of his distressed " family5 he set out for Newgate at as early an hour as he could hope to get admitted to see what should be done, and to learn his son's wishes in the selection of counsel. ' 'I am in a bad place, " said the young man, his pale face and heavy eyes showing his troubles. ( My enemies can prove I was in Hampshire, and I can not prove much about the business I went upon, -for my client was a worthless fellow who has absconded from the country. Everybody knows I had little cause t-o wish Landerdale well. It is circumstantial evidence, every bit of it." Mr. Ireton looked his son steadily ih the face. The old man seemed to have grown actually gray and old in the past 3few hours. "I will leave you to plan your own defense, Richard," he said, "'you know all the points." And after the interchange of a few more   Richard Ireton.       17 words, with a 'short consultation over the counsel to be procured, he staggered out from the unsatisfactory interview, into the sunshine of the open air and the buzz of the busy streets. There, was much to be done immediately; money to be raised, his eldest son to be written for, and the worst facts of the case to be kept from his wife and daughters as long as possible. Philip Ireton came up from Hampshire that night, missing his father's letter on the way. The country was astir with the report of the shocking murder; nobody believed Mr. Lander* dale had taken his own life, the particulars of the finding of the body were against such an opinion, and deeper and heavier the gloom settled down upon the father's spirits as he list- ened to what Philip had to tell. ,i   CHAPTER III. HE day fixed for the opening of the trial drew near. Lucy Greton waited in her chamber, where she lay too ill to raise her fevered head from her pillow, in darkness and stillness, through the hours of sus- pense freighted with the life and good name of the man for whom she would gladly have laid down the promise of her young years, to see him again safe and honored among men; while Mad- ame Ireton, pale and gloomy, sat at her neg- lected board with her fast aging husband and silent girls. No one came to them in their trouble; Annie's accepted suiter had found himself sud- tenly called away, as he said in a short note to his lady-love on the day after her brother's arrest, and Lord L   , of whose predictions Mistress Alice had felt assured, had kept at a distance. Philip Ireton retained his faith in his brother's innocence and acquittal, but he was ignorant of much that had passed, and evidence was brought   Richard Ireton.      19 out before him on the trial - stand to show Rich- ard's infatuation with the woman whose name was now dragged up in the court, and the ill-feel- ing the dishonorable rivalry had made between the young men. A motive, strong enough to tempt a passionate young man to take the life of a rival, was shown, and even a few words ex- changed between Ireton and Landerdale's be- trothed in the robing-room on the night of that last ball were reported by a listener, in which the infatuated young man had proposed an elope- ment to which the lady distinctly refused to con- sent. There was the journey to Hampshire, taken without apparent business to account for it, traced to within a few mileS of the lonely heath where the murdered man had been found, and the long day following, unaccounted for by the prisoner except by the pretense that he was in another spot, which, from his small acquaint- ance with that part of the country, he was not able to identify. Landerdale had no relatives, and the motive which had taken him on his bleak and fatal jour- ney was a mystery. All this made up only a chain of circumstan- tial evidence,-the motive for the murder in the   20      Richard Ireton. rivalry and hatred existing between the two young men, and the proximity of the prisoner to the scene of the crime at the date at which it must have been enacted. Mr. Ireton had spent his money to good purpose in buying up eminent counsel for his son, and the defense dwelt upon its strong points in a closing argument of some length. Ireton's reputation was spotless up to the date of this shocking crime, the learned barrister said. His intimacy with Miss Faredyce was to be regretted for its unpleasant consequences in bringing upon him such terrible suspicions, but at its hight, with all the zealous shaving of the prosecution, it had been proved to be no more than an idle flirtation, one of the kind common enough between showy and admired belles, and young gentlemen of leisure. As to the story of a proposed elopement, it was not probable a step of so serious a character would have been dis- cussed in a public place, within the over- hear- ing of some third person. The prosecution had brought up a strong point in favor of the prison- er; it had shown Miss Faredyce's affections were not given to the man she had engaged to marry at the desire of her parents, -and if this was so, the weight of hatred and revenge was on the   Richard Iretin.      21 side of the mured man. This supposition presented another theory of his death besides that of a murder committed by some roving marauder tempted by the prospect of gain to take the life of a fellow traveler on the ill- famed heath. Mr. Landerdale might have taken his own life; he had no mother or sister, no near friends to win him from looking on the gloomy side which must have been presented while he was struggling under the mortification of his bride's open slights and acceptance of an- other man's attentions. Suicide by gloomy, dis- appointed men had been committed on slighter occasions. The dusk of the short winter afternoon was filling the court-room when the jury had de- cided upon their verdict; the prisoner, without a tinge of color in cheeks or lips, obeyed the call to rise, while his brother, scarcely less pale than himself, fixed his eyes on the dull faces of the men in the jury-box, and the gray-headed father bent forward, every faculty absorbed in atten- oion to the words about to drop from the fore- man's lips, an attention shared by the eager as- semblage, who maintained a deep and respectful silehce.   22      JRichard Ireton. At home, the mother and sisters waited in an anxiety scarcely less intense than this feverish excitement of the court - room; they listened and trembled at every sound in the street. Lucy had come from her sick - room to join them, her face almost as white as the folds of her muslin wrapper. Lunch was brought in and carried out untasted. 'As the twilight grew deeper, a carriage rolled swiftly to the door, footsteps rang in the hall. Madame Ireton got up, trembling, from her chair, and in the next minute Richard had folded his mother and sisters in a congratu- latory embrace. Lucy was not forgotten in this moment of happy reunion, and her cousin read in the flush upon her cheek and the light in her glad eyes her secret which she had not the prudence to conceal. The family passed into the dining-room where a repast was laid, and, joined by a few friends, they made fitting rejoicing for the happy close of so solemn an occasion. "My son, this country is no longer a place for you, "Mr. Iretor said to Richard, when they were alone; "the affair havs ruined -your pros- pects. " "I know it, Sir;" said Richard; "I felt it in   Richard Ireton.      23 the hisses which followed us from the court- room and in the pressure outside. If I had the means, I would embark for the colonies. I should find'a better opening there than I can expect at home." "The means shall not be wanting," said the generous elder brother. "I will mortgage Rath- stone H11 to fit you out, and you shall repay me, Richard, in good time. " The young man shook his brother's hand warmly over the table. He was impatient, for reasons of his own, to put the wide seas between him and his native land. He had little to tempt him to remain; his good name was gone, he could not be ignorant of the injury he had done to his sisters' prospects, and he read suspicion and sorrow even in his mother's eyes. Innocent or guilty - and this only God and himself knew- he had a heavy burden laid upon him, and it would require all the strength in his character to bear it like a man. His life up to this time had been an easy and selfish one; he had studied for a profession, but had wasted his time when his years of fitful application were ended, be- tween his chambers anq in the pursuit oof pleasure, and hiss experience held little that was pleasant or profitable to look back upon.   CHAPTER I RETON did not over-estimate the disa- J^l greeable points of his situation. The ^\Jy public voice was strong and full against the verdict which, bought by gold and in- fluence, the populace said, had let loose a mur- derer to return to his, place in the community and assume positions of trust. Landerdale had been popular, he was handsome and generous, and the enmity between the young men was well known! When Ireton   went abroad, men's faces were turned from him in the street; his nearest friends were oblivious to his presence; women, whose favorite he had been a few months before in the ball rooms, passed him unnoticed. The solitude of a great city fell around him amidst familiar faces, and when he turned his horse's head homeward from the mall, his mother greeted him with her sad face, his sisters with their cold, averted looks; only one was unchanged and through this day of trial carried a firm faith   Richard Ireton.      25 in his innocence and a heart full of tender pity for his misfortunes. He sought her society more and more; he began to see a beauty before unno- ticed in the fair, girlish face, unconscious that the new bloom and brightness he admired were of his own creating, and to be sensible of an'in- creasing interest in the simple ingenuous charac- ter he had passed by unnoticed. In the latter April, when the leaves were swelling into form upon the trees and the air was sweet with the scents of the blooming crocus, on one of those clear, rare days which break upon the yellow fogs of London, Richard sat with Lucy, watching her busy fingers as she wrought at her embroidery on which blue violets, the unconscious expression of their creator's spring hopes, were bursting into life. "In another week I shall have taken my fare- well of my native land," he was saying. "'It will be a last farewell! I shall never look again upon the faces of my kindred or any human being I now love." Lucy's large lashes veiled her eyes, but the color deserted her cheeks, her fingers trembled so violently she was compelled to pause in her employment.   26      Richard Ireton. "If my prospects were better," resumed Ireton, watching the agitation of his fair com- panion, "I would not be content to go alone, - at least I would try to obtain the only happiness which can now be mine in this gloomy world. But no honorable man would ask such a sacri- fice of a woman as to link her future with his dishonored name."' Lucy looked up, her eyes shining in tears, her face flushed with the deepest emotion. "To a' woman who loves, there is no such word as sac- rifice," she said. "4 If I loved a man unjustly ac- cused with a crime, it would be my proudest happiness to go with him to the ends of the earth." Ireton caught her hand and pressed it to his lips. Neither had noticed the entrance of Madame Ireton, who stood in sorrowful surprise before the agitated couple. "Mother," said her son, "you will give us your blessing? I shall not go alone to my exile. This sweet girl you have reared and brought up will repay all your kindness by bestowing her hand on your son." Madame'Ireton kissed her future daughter-   Richard Ireton.      27 in -law on her forehead. A little while ago, she would have been very angry at any thoughts of such a match for her favorite son, now she won- dered at the young girl's devotion which awoke no answering throb in her heart. There was little time for the preparations for the wedding. Madame Ireton and her daugh- ters set about them. The vessel would set sail in a week. Lucy went round like one in a dream. In a week she was to be married to her cousin Richard, and these rich brocades, over which her short mornings whre spent, these cost- ly laces and jewels were her wedding outfit! It was a quiet wedding, without guests. The bride was lovely in her pearls and orange flow- ers;'the bridegroom was pale and wore an absent air, not altogether as a man should look on the happiest day of his life. His past night had been strangely spent; he had stood while the mist and rain deepened, in the late hours, on a quiet street, watching the windows of a room where the woman he had worshiped a few weeks before slept her slumbers; of peace undis- turbed by a dream of the lonely watcher below. He would see her no more, a separation deep as the grave had come between them, and she   28      Richard Ireton. shared in the changed mood of his friends. For her he had sacrificed peace, reputation, and his native land with all the prospects that were be- fore him yesterday. But what had this bride- groom of to-morrow to do here on this -gray pavement in the mist and rain? What had drawn him forth to take a last look at the spot which held his fickle love? It was a dull morning of fog and. mist which witnessed this wedding, but London is oftenest seen through this vail, and when, later, the fog parted a little, and the wedding breakfast was over, Lucy said her farewells with a face such as a bride should wear, and put her hand with a look of love and trust into her husbaud's to take her away. The vessel was crowded with passengers, some of the emigrants were younger sons of good fam- ilies looking to wealth and distinction in the col- onies where they could find a better opening than at home, and a few were young farmers who, by plodding industry, had laid up the pas- sage money, with credit to borrow a small sum to lay the foundations of their fortunes in the purchase of a little homestead, to be added   to from  time to time in the new   Richard Ireton.      29 country, whose  virgin lands could pehad atalmost nominal prices. All of these looked forward to a return to their native land at some future day, with letters from kindred or friends to lighten the years of exile, but no such delusive dream  cheered Greton and his wife, as they watched the fast receding shores till only a gray line swept across the hor- izon. On the second day out, Mrs. Greton was confined to her state - room with sea - sickness and did not go on deck again until the perils of the voyage were ended. She had good care in her sickness, her husband spent most of his time, by her pillow, and the young woman who had been provided by Madame Ireton as a maid for her son's wife was unremitting in her attentions to her mistress. In days after, Lucy looked back upon these weeks spent in her close room as the happiest in her troubled and eventful life. One afternoon the welcome cry of " land!" was heard upon the deck, and Lucy, supported by her husband's arm, hurried up to catch he first glimpse of the new world they were ap- proaching. She had  heard dark tales of the savage Indians with their barbarous warfare, who spared neither women noi tender children, and ,   30      Richard Ireton. delighted in the torments of their enemies; of the terrible severity of the climate, which drifted snow-heaps over the tops of the tall houses and froze the red wine in its cask, and of the stern, ascetic character of the people, made up mostly of fanatics and the turbulent spirits of the mother country; but all her fears faded in delighted ad- miration as the vessel swiftly glided over a glassy sea among the beautiful islands of the bay, green with verdure and alive with the songs of a host of birds filling the evening air with their vesper hymns. As they drew nearer, she could see the narrow streets of the town ascending and de- scending, the white houses surrounded with gardens and fruit trees, and the hills, a tri-mount- ain flooded with the sunset. Groups were in the streets gazing on the approaching vessel, which would bring them news of their friends, for all had relatives and- friends in the eagerly looked to mother country, and with a glow of reviving color on her pale cheeks Lucy turned to her husband, saying, '"What a beautiful land I did not dream it was half so beautiful!" A     , '   CHAPTER V. IRETON carried a letter of recommenda- tion to an early friend of his mother which would introduce him as a Mr. Leslie, that being Madame Ireton's family name, and as soon as the vessel had an- chored, he prepared to go onshore. Mr. Chal- mers was well known to all the inhabitants of the little town as a merchant of some note, and his house was within walking distance. Lucy felt her strength return in the fresh air from the land, as she, stepped from the vessel, gazing round her with curious and interested eyes while she leaned upon her husband's arm for support. Cows were still quietly grazing upon green slopes, the whole town was astir with the interest of the arrival, and swarthy looking negroes,- ne- gresses with their heads turbaned in bright col- ored handkerchiefs, mingled in the crowd. After making a few inquiries, Ireton turned to the right and, winding through three or four crooked   32      Richard Ireton. streets, they came upon a large house with a gar- den in front filled with apple trees, which, in this late climate, were still white with blossoms. The servant girl said Mr. Chalmers was in, and they were shown into a handsome parlor, where, the master of the house soon made his appearance. He shook hands warnry with his guests whom he proceeded to 'make welcome. A glow of shalme reddened Lucy's cheeks at the recollection of the imposition practiced upon theirhost as he addressed her as "Mrs. Leslie." Concealment was foreign to her ingenuous character; she would gladly have declined the hospitality which might have been denied to her husband in his proper person, and believing in his innocence with her whole heart, she could not understand how oth- ers, removed from the prejudices of the scene of his trial, could fail to do him justice. She sat listening in the pleasant June evening, while the fragrance of the garden floated in through the open windows, to the conversation between the two gentlemen, arousing herself at intervals to respond to the questions put to her by her yotng hostess, Mr. Chalmers's grown up daughter, of the new fashions in vogue in London and the latest court presentations.   Richard Ireton.      33 "I have never been at court," said Lucy, quietly. "I have been to a few balls. I have seen the Queen two or three times in her coach in the streets. She is not a handsome woman, but very popular in London." Mr. Chalmers was beginning to speak of a trial which had just terminated. Lucy held her breath. "It was a shocking murder!" said Mr. Chalmers. "I read a part of the trial, and I do n't see how such a verdict was got up. The poor fellow had but one enemy, and he was traced to the spot, I beg your pardon, Mr. Leslie, the name was Ireton; perhaps the young   man belonged to some distant branch of your cousin's family?" "He is his son," said Richard, quietly; and after a pause of awkward silence Mr. Chal- mers resumed the subject. "The trial has caused much excitement here, like everything of mo- ment transpiring in our mother country. I wish the young man may be innocent, since he is Anna Leslie's son, bt it is very little in his favor that he should. have been paying his court to another man's sweetheart."  "You hear only one side of the gossip here, Sir," Ireton replied. "It is said in London the   34       Richard Ireton. young lady never willingly received Mr. Lander- dale's addresses," and he left the subject as soon as his host would leave it. They talked of the persecutions of the Quakers, which were not yet out of fashion, little as the high - handed dealings of the authorities of the Province with this fanatical set was approved at home. Lucy, dismissing one trouble, awoke to another in the recollection that her faithful Anna, who had nursed her through the long voy- age, was one of this marked people. - You are weary, Mrs. Leslie," said Patience Chalmers, after speaking to her guest twice unno- ticed; " shall I show you to your chamber?" Lucy gladly rose and followed the light-footed maiden. Everything was in order in the cham. ber into which she was shown. The windows opened on a green ' common, and the bed, with its fresh linen sheets and lace curtains, invited to refresh'ng repose. Lucy's eyes closed almost as soon as her head pressed her pillow, for she was' exhausted with her sea-journey and sickness; and when her husband came up an hour later, he found her in deep slumber. Ireton shaded his lamp that it might not wake   tRichard Ireton.      35 her, and gazed out on the town lying in the still- ness of the night, its -white houses, surrounded with green verdure, making a fair picture bathed in the pale light of the rising moon. Ireton thought over several things he had gathered from his host in the course of the evening. He had believed himself assured of safety in this distant part of the world, but now he felt that this safety must be sought in some obscure corner. If he remained here, some chance pas- senger in the next vessel might identify him, and the ill favor in which he was held at home be transferred to this spot of his exile. The sleeper moved in a dream; he glanced toward her; the rounded arm thrown over the counterpane, the blooming face, the golden locks falling upon the pillows, presented a picture of youth and innocence which drew an involuntary sigh front him. He remembered that the lot of this young creature was linked with his, and the hardships he was about to- encounter in the wilderness must be shared by her. Another picture took the place of this upon which his eyes rested, - the memory of a proud, stately girl, radiant with jewels and beauty, in a box at a theater, seemingly unconscious of the   36     ' Richard Ireton. admiring glances directed toward her. "That lady is a Northumberland heiress,- Miss Fare- dyce," said a voice at his side. "I believe this is her first public appearance; she has been con- fined to an old aunt's sick bed for a year or two, but the aunt is dead, and has left her a large fortune if she marries to please her guardian. She is likely to get the fortune, for you see Lan- derdale is as constant to her as her shadow, and he is a favorite with both the father and uncle."' As he heard these words, he met again the eyes of the beautiful stranger fixed upon him and a mutual interest was aw akened at first sight in the bosom of each.  He had flirted with other ladies as gay and beautiful, and little thought, as he hastened to seek an interview from his old friend, that this sentimental friendship he pro  posed to himself would grow to be the master passion of his life. As he bent his head upon his hand, another scene appeared before him: a lovely Hampshire moor, blossoming with yellow gorse and purple heath; but there, before his eyes, was one spot where the earth was gray and the rank flowers refused to spread. He rose with a shudder, put out his light and hastily prepared to retire.   CHAPTER VI. HE errand which had taken tLanderdale into Hampshire, over the lonesome moor where' his corpse was found, still re- mained a mystery to the public; a mystery which could have been explained by two persons. The world believed Mrs. Lander- dale carried her widow's grief to her grave, but the facts were, that, in the second year of her widowhood, she bestowed her hand privately upon a young man who had been a favored lover in her youth, and rejected by her parents at that tinme for his want of fortune. Mr. Landerdale had left his widow a handsome annuity which would revert to her son in the event of a second marriage. Her husband, Mr. Ferrars, had but a small property, and there were other circum- stances to conceal her marriage. It was easy to keep the fact of her marriage from her son, a boy of six years, but not quite so easy to blind the eyes of the servants, who saw, however, but a   38      Richard Ireton. favored suitor in the handsome young man who came often to the house, and sometimes passed several days in the enjoyment of its hospitalities. But Mrs. Landerdale's troubles of this kind were put to an end very suddenly by her second hus- band's death. This event gave her a great shock, or so thought the friends who had taken the liberty to remonstrate with her on her inti- macy with a man who could not be considered an eligible party even had her husband not left her so splendidly dowered as to put away the thoughts of a second marriage. She went abroad, no one knew where, leaving her boy in the charge of her servants, and did not return for many months, when she came back a faded and changed woman, with the traces of a severe sickness in her bowed form and thin face. Young Landerdale's education was cared for by a tutor, and he was sent to Oxford, where he graduated with some distinction in the same class with his future rival, Ireton, ;and, on the same day, he received news of his mother's dan- gerous sickness, and set out without a moment's delay, to arrive too late, for the dying lady had drawn her last gasp as his feet crossed the threshold. It was a sad bereavement to the   Richard Ireton.      39 young man, but the love between the mother and son had not been so warm as is usual in that relation. Mrs. Landerdale had been an exemplary woman, a good friend, a kind mistress, and a careful mother, but she hadc never loved the father of her son, and her first marriage had turned out unhappily to both parties; they had only been able to preserve the appearance of a decent regard for each other in public, while their private life was passed in bickerings. Landerdale spent a few mnoments in his mother's room looking on her changed features, and was passing to his chamber, when his mother's maid gave him a letter her mistress had required her, in her last moments, to put into his hands on his arrival. Landerdale recognized' his mother's hand- writing on the closely - covered sheet, and quickly began its perusal. "MY SoN: -I am about to confess to you a great error," the letter began. "It may not be difficult for you to forgive me, as, when you know all, I shall halve passed from the hearing of human reproaches; and if I have understood your character, you will remember me as the patient and careful mother who has watched   40      Richard Ireton. over you faithfully and striven to teach you respect for everything that is virtuous and good. You were but six years of age when your father died, but I think you have some recol- lections of the terms on which we lived to- gether.- Previous to my  marriage, I had formed an attachment in a humble rank in life; my lover's poverty and humble station, with the interference of my relatives, separated us. After I became a widow, accident broughtme again into acquaintance with Mr. Ferrars, the object of the attachment, and I contracted a secret marriage with him. Mr. Ferrars was poor; he had relatives dependent upon him,/and if I had given up my annuity, as the terms of your father's will dictated in the event of a second marriage, I should have been reduced to poverty. My husband did not live long after our mar- riage, end within a few weeks following his de- cease, I found myself with an infant daughter to add to the troubles of my situation and increase my cares to conceal what had taken place. My son, it is for this child I entreat your pity, and that you will prove by your kindness to her the forgiveness your mother humbly asks for her concealment and the unwise step she took.   Richard lreton.      41 Your sister has been brought up in seclusion by her father's relatives. You will know. where to find her. It is from you I desire her to be told of her miother's death, and, if you judge best, of these circumstahces with which she is wholly unacquainted. "I pray you to be kind to her. I should die happier if I could have such a promise from you, but I dare not open my heart to you except upon a dying bed, and I commit you and her to the guardian care and protection of an all - see- ing God!" Landerdale folded the letter; his first emotions were of pain and anger, these subsiding left a place for gentler feelings. He was now alone in the world ; his blood did not flow in the veins of any human being, and an emotion of interest be- gan to awaken in his breast toward the young girl, who, after all, was his sister, and legiti- mately born, if of a poor, yet not dishonest, parentage. He attended to the solemnization of the fu- neral obsequies with all the outward marks of a true mourner, and, not very long after, set out on a journey which took him over the lonely Hamp- shire Moor,- where, three years iater, he met his   42       Richard Ireton. death, s-to the place where Miss Ferrars and her niece resided. He gave his name to the servant to take to his mistress, but he asked an interview with the younger lady, and both the women were in the pleasant sitting-room into which he was shown, -a  sitting - room made cheerful by a glowing peat fire, the litter of woman's tasteful work, and the decorations of Christmas which, in holly and evergreen wreaths, yet remained upon the walls. Miss Ferrars turned pale at the announcement of the visitor's name, but the young lady rose, and, modestly courtesying, placed a chair for the stranger. She was very lovely. She had her mother's eyes and mouth, and even Miss Ferrars's agitation was arrested by the striking likeness between the two. 6"I left Landerdale House yesterday," said the young man, gracefully accepting Anna Ferrars's courtesy and addressing both the ladies. "I i have called on you, Miss Ferrars, with a message from oydur mother." Anna's bright face kindled with a puzzled ex- pression. She had understood her mother to be a housekeeper in some great family; this had been told her to explain her absence from their   jRichard Ireton.       43 home and the necessity of their separation; per- haps this young gentleman was one of the family; she had been attracted at his entrance by the familiarity of his air and features, but unable, to recall what made them so familiar. "'I hope Mrs. Ferrars is not ill?" said her sister - in - law. "She has been very ill," said Landerdale, at a loss how to break his news. "With your per- mission, Miss Ferrars, I will speak with you a few moments alone."      -   CHAPTER VII. iT was all told. Anna heard that she was an orphan, and in the same hour the story of her mother's life was told to her from her aunt's lips, and she knew with a bitter sorrow the concealment practiced toward. her, which detracted at first from her tenderness to her mother's memory. "Oh, why could she not have been happy with us?" sobbed the ignorant child. "We would have done everything  for her!" but Miss Ferrars gently reminded her niece that the house in which they lived had been redeemed from a mortgage out of Mr. Landerdale's annu- ity, and their daily wants had been supplied from the same source. "You must go in to see your brother," said the kind lady; "he is waiting to see you as soon as you get composed. Perhaps he will stay over night with us; you must invite him; there is room in the stable for his horse,- and, my dear, do n't forget you are now entirely l   Richard Ireton.      45 dependent upon what he may do for you, and that he has more reason than yourself to resent the concealment which has been practiced." No calculating thought could find a place in Anna Ferrars's mind. She had all the freshness and nobleness of youth, but she thought with sympathy, in the suddenness of her own great grief, of the brother as lonely and bereaved as herself, and this emotion shone in her still tear wet eyes as she came back into the room, holding out her hand to him. If she had had more acquaint- ance with the world, she would have held back, and perhaps have wounded her brother by what he would have interpreted as cold looks, but she felt that he must love her, since so near a tie of blood' united them. Landerdale read all that was in her heart in her earnest face, and if he had had any doubts of the course he should pur - sue, in that moment they were solved forever. In another respect he  was gratified; he found in this young girl, as the first passion of her grief subsided and they talked calmly to- gether, a clear reason, with a sweetness of com- pliance in his judgment which he had hardly ex- pected to meet in one so young. She expressed no desire to have her mother's last marriage   "      Richard Ireton. made public; she shrank as sensitively as himself from the scandal it would create; she was happy in the quiet life she had lived with her good aunt so lonely to him - she had very little idea of the value most young. ladies would have attached to the possibility of coming out in London at one of its gay seasons as the sister of the wealthy and courted Landerdale. "I will make a generous provision for her, in the event of my death," the young man deter- mined to himself, and he carried his purpose into execution by an early visit to London, on which he transacted business at his lawyer's, executing a will which left to Anna Ferrars, daughter of William and Mary Ferrars, in Hampshire, all the property at his disposal in the event of his prior decease. This lonely Hampshire home, whose inmates lived apart from their neighbors, known to them almost alone by their charities, their goings abroad for recreation, and their constantly occupied slip"at church, became henceforth the object of Landerdale's frequent thoughts and not unfrequent visits, and when he met Miss Faredyce and quickly formed an engagement of marriage with the brilliant beauty, his happiness //   Richard Ireton.      47 was not full until he had sought Anna's sympa- thy and congratulations. "I shall claim you for my home, for a time at least," he said,. "when our marriage has taken place. I have found the one thing which was wanted to complete my joy, in the discovery that your father was a relative of Arabella's. You shall come out in the next London season, and make a sensation, my sweet sister. Many and many a time, I have been fretted by seeing women less beautiful and charming bear off the palm, while I thought of you in this lonely spot where there i^nobody to see you." Anna smiled, and gratefully pressed his hand. She was not sure her future sister- in - law would like her; the Faredyces had always looked down upon the poorer branch of their family, and her aunt had mentioned this on some late occasion, as a haughty and selfish girl. She feared her brother would not be happy, and this fear called up a sigh, which he interpreted as an expression of regret that this stranger should come between them. He kissed her with unusual fondness when he went away, and threw a lingering look back- at the windows of the sitting-room after he had   - 48     .  Richard Ireton. mounted his horse; he did not know this was his last parting, and that this young girl, who of all this world alone loved him, would, in a few months, be shedding her bitterest tears over his fate.  He rode away hopeful, and buoyant, .with no presentiments to warn him that his short hour of happiness was over. ,    CHAPTER VIIi. was a dull, drizzling day, four months  later. Anna felt an unusual oppression I 6' k upon her spirits when she awoke, which would not pass away under her usual light oc- cupation, and, at ten, she put away her sewing, with an exclamation to her aunt, that she was going to ride. Miss Ferrars directed her atten- tion to the storm which was fast gathering, and told her if she had ally errand in the neighbor- hood, she had better leave it to John, their man of all-work, who was toasting himself in the kitchen. "I want to see Dame Allen," said Anna. "I have not been there for a week, and I fear the poor creature is suffering for the lack of common necessaries. I should have gone yesterday, but I was busy in finishing that drawing." "She will want some more of that mixture for her rheumatism," said Miss Ferrars, groping in   50      Richard Ireton. her large pocket for her keys. ( You had better let John, go, Anna, it's a good two miles; the rain will be down before you get back; it will be awful out on the edge of the moor." But I know    the way, Aunt," replied the young lady; ("I've even been on the moor in worse storms than this is likely to be, and Fanny knows every step." She passed into the kitchen, to gather up a little basket of bread and cold meat, which she knew would be acceptable to her poor pensioner, and started John up-to get her horse, which was ready nearly as soon as her serviceable cloak and hood were on and she had listened to the last of Miss Ferrars's cautions and messages. The ride, on that gray, misty noon, was not exhilarating; it brightened the rose in her cheeks and the sparkle in her brown eyes;- but the weight upon her spirits remained, and the dull mist, rolling up on the edge of the moor, as it came in sight, harmonized with her fitful mood. Just then a horse's gallop behind her struck upon her ear, and, turning in her saddle, she saw a finely mounted equestrian riding past her at a few paces distant, which, dark as was the day, brought his face and figure directly in sight. He                     .   Richard Ireton.      51 was a young man, with a handsome, finely-ex- pressioned face, but just now his forehead was corrugated in a moody frown, which made the lonely young rider involuntarily tighten her horse's rein, with a gentle endeavor to accelerate her pace. Perhaps the stranger noticed her alarm, for he raised his hat with a slight gesture of courtesy, giving a fuller view of his face in the act, and turning swiftly to face the moor, on whose edge they were riding, was soon lost from her sight in the mists over the wide heath. "I should not want to meet him in that lone - some place," Anna said to herself, thinking of. the tales she had heard which had given the moor no small notoriety with ignorant and credulous people. She alighted at Dame Allen's door just as the rain was falling, and was welcomed by the old crone, who was glad of a listener to pour out her complaints to, as well as thankful for the sub- stantial gifts her visitor brought. The rain was still dripping from the clouds when Anna's errand was done, but there was no prospect of abatement to the storm, and, fasten - ing her cloak carefully around her, she prepared to face it, turning a smiling face on the old   52      Richard Ireton. woman who followed her to the door with lamen- tations and regrets. "Do n't blunder on the heath, Miss Anna. It's a dismal place Then the sun shines and dismaller in the storm. Many a man has been waylaid and robbed there, and never heard of after. I dreamed a bad dream last night, and I'm afraid something's going to happen." "It's your rheumatics, Dame, made worse by this damp weather," said the young girl, looking back into the untidy room where cleanliness was not held in high value. "I do n't wonder you dream bad dreams." She gathered up her reins and rode swiftly away, her horse exerting herself to speed, as if sharing in her mistress' impatience and eager to get back to her own comfortable quarters in the stable. "I met nobody on the way, Aunt," Anna said when she came down to lunch; a neat morning gown having taken the place of her wet clothes. "Yes! I saw a strange gentleman, not very well looking, either. He was riding on the edge of the moor, and I lost him there in the mist." "It is a lonesome spot," said Miss Ferrars; "strange stories were told of it when I was a j   *f RRichard Ireton.          53 young girl. A murder was committed there once; a young man was killed who was riding to see his sweetheart. It took place many years ago; long before my remembrance." "How sad!" said Anna. "W'Ws the murderer found?" No; it was supposed to be a tramp vho took the poor young man's life for his money. His pockets were rifled, and he had an ugly wound on his head. The murder was committed with a stone." "Perhaps he had a rival," said Anna; "for how should a common tramp know he carried money? Perhaps the murderer was no common stroller after all." "It was so long ago that I don't know half the particulars," said Miss Ferrars. "But it gave the moor an ill name which, with a certain class of people, it has kept ever since.' The storm did not break in a hurry; for a whole week it hung over this Hampshire moor; but when it parted and the clouds rolled away, a horrible story was current in the neighborhood, that the body of a man had been found, and some stranger had come to his death by violence out on the heath.   54      Richard Ireton. John, with his mouth agape and his eyes pro - truding from their sockets, came into the sitting - room to break the news to the ladies. "It's no story got up, Missus," he said to Miss Ferrars's incredulous nod. ' I saw the sight with my own eyes. The corpse is at the red inn." "It's the stranger I met in my ride," said Anna, starting up, with a presentiment. "Oh, it's dreadful. When was he found, John?" "You' won't think of going there, Miss ' s  Anna?" said the old man, whose senses seemed quite dazed. "It's somebody you know, my dear young mistress!"- "It can't be William!"Anna shrieked, and she fell at her aunt's feet, who had risen to break her fall, lying there as white and unconscious as any human being could be. Two persons to whom Landerdale was known and who happened to be near the spot, had already identified the body, and before the swoon - ing sister, who revived to pass from one fainting fit to1 another, had recovered the use of her faculties the gloomy cortege was on its way to London, the whole county was astir with the dreadful story, and the vigilant search of the constables to ferret out the murderer had begun.   Richard Ireton.       56 Anna wept till she could weep no more, then  she woke to the discovery that her aunt was ill and needed in her turn the care and attentions she had been bestowing. The trial came on and was over while she was watching by the sick bed of her only friend, and very soon after the late William Landerdale's lawyer wrote her asking her to substantiate her claims to the property left her by his deceased client, by proving herself the person named in the will -s the daughter of William and Anna Ferrars. It was necessary to do so, but she shrank from opening the scandal of her mother's second marriage, made the more scandalous by its long concealment.  Why would they not let the property go as the devisor had directed, without tearing open family secrets? Anna made no answer to the letter, and soon the junior member of the firm came down to Hampshire to see the young lady, and found her overwhelmed in a fresh sorrow by the death of her last friend. She had little thought of prop - erty now, but the lawyer stayed until the mourn- ful scene was over, and offered what consolations he could to the friendless young woman. He had a family of his own, a group of lovely young daughters, to soften even his professional heart   56      Richard Ireton. to. the sight of her desolation, and Anna, in her distress, listened to his advice, and left every- thing in his hands, to be carried out as he thought best. On one point she gave him her confidence; on the night before he left here by the early morn- ing train, she told him of the stranger she had met on the edge of the lonely heath, and the impression which had set itself deeply in her mind, on the finding of the body, that he was her brother's murd erer. "'I was so distressed, and afterwards absorbed in anxiety over my aunt," she said, "I did not think of going up to London at the trial. It was my duty to have done so, and I now lament it. Is there any way in which I can set this right?" The lawyer listened with deep interest. She did not know that the man so lately under charge of her brother's murder had been his client, and he had, of course, strained every fac- ulty to bring him out an innocent man. "What was the appearance of this gentle- man, Miss Ferrars?" he asked. "Can you de- scribe him?"       - "He was tall, and dark, and sat his horse well; his age could not have been more than six   Richard Ireton.      57 'and twenty, I should judge; it might have been more. His face was singularly fine, one to be easily remembered." An intelligent look shone in the lawyer's eyes. For a moment he remained silent. "Your evidence would have done no good, Miss Fer- rars," he said. "No one knows the exact day on which the murder was committed; your brother's corpse had the appearance of having lain several days on the heath. Your testimony could have explained the nature of his business into Hamp- shire, but that was a point of little importance. You have nothing to blame yourself for, and there is nothing you can do in the matter." Anna was silent, but not; altogether content. She felt that she should always blame herself for the physical weakness which had kept her here at a moment when her testimony might have been of some value in assisting to identify the murderer. If Ireton and the stranger she met on the edge of the heath were one, there could be no doubt in her mind of the man. "I can not live here in this place, haunted with such associations," she said to her lawyer at parting. "If I  had friends abroad, I would go to the Colonies to escape from England.   58       Richard Ireton. Everything will continue to remind me of poor William and to aggravate my sorrow over his cruel death." "She will get over it," mused the lawyer as he stepped over the threshold. "Young, rich, and handsome, the world lies before her."   CHAPTER IX. IRETON    held a conversation with his wife before he left his chamber in the morning, a conversation rather than consultation, in which he announced to her the change in his plans. "I have had a conversation with Mr. Chal- mers on my affairs," he said. "He gives me very little encouragement. There is small liti- gation in this town, and if I should depend on my profession at present, we should not have the means to live. I made up my mind while think - ing it over last night, while you were asleep, to travel east and find a small clearing where we can make ourselves comfortable by our own industry." Lucy looked dismayed at this prospect of going into the wilderness. Her face had not anticipated actual contact with savage life in its perils and dangers on the edge of civilization. She was in the act of plaiting her long hair in the fash -ef the day, while her husband was spealing, and the bright links slipped heavily   60      BRichard Ireton. through her fingers. Ireton watched her and waited while she paused. "Mr. Chalmers seems to be a man of influence," she said, hesitatingly. 6"Will he not help you to some small post for a beginning? It is hard, with your abilities, to think of leaving civiliza- tion and settling on some rough clearing, to be surrounded by rude people.' "You forget that I haVe no recommendations; when you speak of office, Lucy," said Ireton. "My past life must court secrecy in place of openness. It is hard for you, my love. I was selfish to bring you here. The privations and exposures which may be before us will be tenfold - harder for you than for me." Lucy's face brightened; her great love rose up strong in her' heart. "Our lot will be made easy by being borne together," she-said. "If I was disappointed a moment ago, it was over the thought that your talents would be buried in obscurity." Ireton did not think it best to tell her of the necessity which 4thrust them forth. The results which followed his trial in England would come forth here as soon as his identity should be made known, and in the frequent coming of vessels   Richard Ireton.      61 bringing emigrants and visitors to the most im- portant town of the colonies, he could not hope to continue unrecognized. He took an opportunity to speak with his host before his wife made her appearance, and Lucy would have been surprised at the wonder shown by Mr. Chalmers over the sudden decision of his guest, as he asked his permission to leave his wife and her maid to his hospitality, while he jour- neyed east in search of a spot for a homestead. "You can do better than bury your talents in the woods, Mr. Leslie," he replied. "I have some influence, and I may be able to carry out the wishes Madam Ireton expressed in her letter to me in behalf of her young relative,- although there are plenty of applicants for place even here." "I am obliged to you, Sir," said' Ireton, courteously. But I have made up my mind to try a farmer's life for a few years." Lucy entered with Patience; the latter came to announce breakfast. With the appearance of the ladies the conver- sation closed, leaving Mr. Chalmers but half sat- isfied. There was a mystery about Mr. Leslie, in his opinion, and suspicions of the truth began to   62        Richard Ireton. dawn upon' him. There were sufficient reasons why Richard Ireton, if he came over to the colonies, should not keep his own name. With this reflection his manner to his guests grew re- strained, and he hurried away to his business as soon as he quitted his table. Patience looked after her father in much sur- prise:, and exerted herself to make up for his lack of courtesy. Ireton withdrew to' his chamber to make his preparations to depart, where Lucy soon follow- ed, to give her assistance. "You will write me?" she asked, tears filling her eyes at being left in this strange place among strange faces. "I shall be back as quickly as my business can be completed," answered Ireton. "I may not write, the mails are so unfrequent. You will see me first." Ireton had brought his horse over in the vessel; it came round to the door, led by Mr. Chalmers' servant, and, taking an affectionate farewell of his wife, with a courteous leave- tak - ing of Miss Chalmers, he mounted and rode away. Lucy sat in her chamber weeping, an hour after, when Miss Chalmers knocked at her door and proposed a walk. Lucy would have refused,   Richard Ireton.      638 but she did not wish to seem ungrateful for her kindness and so accepted the invitation. Miss Chalmers, who was fully dressed, asked permis- sion to come in while her toilet was making, and examined with admiration the rich wardrobe open to her inspection. "What a pity these beautiful, things must be laid by, Mrs. Leslie!" she exclaimed. "You will have no use for them when you get to a settlement. How much did this brocade cost a yard!? It's heavy!" "I do n't know," said Lucy. ' It was a pres- ent from my aunt." "It's very beautiful," said Patience, smooth- ing it admiringly. Lucy found her spirits brightened by the clear air as they passed through the streets, which wore a business appearance, and, emerging from the crowded portion, climbed a path lead- ing to the summit of Beacon hill, a point which, when attained, gave a fine view of the town with all its environs. The bay was dotted with boats crossing from Charlestown and Cam- bridge, - the long commodious bridges of to- day were not a part of the prospect,-- swift Indian canoes darted past the well filled ferry- boats and :the handsome barks owned by private   "     Richard Ireton. gentlemen, the whole-presenting a lively and picturesque scene. To the west, flocks of cattle were scattered over the green meadows of Brookline, and the white houses of Roxbury were to be seen clustering amid their rocks and hills, while nearer, at their feet, the more compact town with still blooming orchards and gardens redolent of flowers made up the picture. Lucy sighed with regret that this lovely spot could not now become her home in the plad of a lonely dwelling in the wilderness, with the 8om- panionship (though a kind Providence hid this last from her) of a gloomy and haunted man. As .they descended the hill, a procession crossed their path, compelling a short delay as it filled up the narrow street. It consisted of a guard of soldiers bearing a woman in their midst who, for some offense, was to be put in the stocks and bear the shame of a public whipping. , Pa- tience stepped into a store as they were rudely jostled by the crowd hurrying along the sidewalk and put a few questions to the man whose at- tention was turned from the sales of his wares for the moment by the exciting spectacle out- side. "Who is the woman?" she asked. "t She is a miserable Quaker," he answered.   Richard Ireton.      65 "I wish they were all hung; they are a pest in the community." Lucy turned pale; her agitation was very per- ceptible. The store - keeper followed her with a suspicious glance as the two ladies made their exit on the street. Lucy went on in silence, scarely - replying to her companion's remarks on what they had seen. She thought of a question she had put to her husband on the evening of their arrival, suggested by some speech of Mr. Chalmers. "( I thought the Puritans came over to this country to get religious tolerance? " "So they did," answered Mr. Ireton, "but tolerance for their own ways of thinking." Lucy thought persecutions should teach lenity to the people who suffered by them; she could not comprehend the anomaly, but her anxieties over Anna were all that gave her an- interest in this matter. When-they reached home and lunch was over she sent for her maid to come to her in her K chamber. Anna was the eldest daughter of a well - to - do Lincolnshire farmer, and had left her home with her mother, both turned from it by her angry father for persistence in their religious opinions, Being without friends to assist them   "       Richard Ireton. in procuring 'employment, they were reduced to miserable straits; the mother died of a sickness brought on by exposures and want, and just at that time their story came to the knowledge of Madame Ireton, who gave assistance to the daughter to have her mother decently buried, and finally, at the entreaty of her own waiting- maid, who had known the young girl in her pros - perous days, furnished herewith this permanent situation of maid to her daughter - in -law. Madame Ireton had trusted to the young woman's good sense to preserve silence upon the subject of her heretical belief in the colonies. She believed her severe experience would school her 'to caution, and she saw that her gentle, retiring character held few of the elements which may be supposed to court martyrdom. She had full faith in her discretion and, beyond this, it had been no easy task to get a suitable person for her place, owing to the peculiar circumstances attend ing her son's departure and the new name under which he must appear in the future. "I have sent for you, Anna," said her mistress, as, obedient to Mrs. Ireton's gesture, the girl carefully closed the door behind her, " to tell you it is necessary you should go to church with Mr. Chalmers' family to-morrow.  We must do all   Richard Ireton.      67 we can to guard against suspicion and avoid offense. Mr. Chalmers is one of the strictest of his people." The young Quakeress looked disturbed and surprised. She hesitated, and said she would prefer to remain at home. "It w4ill be but for once or twice," said Lucy, in her pleasant, persuasive voice. "Mr. Ireton has changed his plans to remain here permanently.   He has gone to the east in search of a homestead and will come back as quickly as his business is settled." The young woman's face brightened. All she had suffered, had not worn out the spirit of re - sistance in her; it showed itself in the stern light in her steel gray eye and the deathly whiteness of her cheek. She believed the martyr's path was before her, that she was sent to this new world to give her testimony and suffer with her sect, but her mistress' closing words opened a way of escape to her. She would try to please her, she said; if Mrs. Ireton thought it best for her to attend church, she should go. "I would a thousand times rather follow you into the wilderness to live among the savages than stay-in this place!" she went oh. "My head is half-dazed with the talk I havi   68       Richard Ireton. to bear in the kitchen. An old woman has been put in the stocks for the people to gape at to - day, and her poor old back scored with whips for being a Quakeress. I heard the drums asthe procession went by and saw'them hurry on the poor creature." "It is cruel," said Lucy, shuddering. "But, Anna, you must keep away from these gossips in the kitchen. I will give you some sewing and you may stay in my room. It is possible Mr. Ireton  will be back in less than the time he fixed for his business, and we shall go away di- rectly." She saw her maid seated to her sewing; some unimportant portions of her mistress' wardrobe packed unfinished in the hurry of departure, and waited to compose herself before joining Patience.  From her window she saw the spot on the green common where Mary Dyer had drawn her last breath in the hands of the hang- man on a fair June day, as bright and balmy as this, for her religion's sake. "They came over for the privilege to worship God after their own fashion," she mused, l" but it is after their own fashion and no strangers must mingle with them."   -CHAPTER X. UCY'S first Sabbath in New England I opened with a thought of her, absent husband and a prayer for his safety and well - being. The sun was shining brightly out of doors and the songs of the birds came in through the half-open window; she raised herself upon her pillow and heard the sounds of life stirring in the house. Mr. Chalmers was in the breakfast room when she came down, wearing a graver face than usual, in accord with the character of the day, and her mind wandered away long before the protracted grace in which he indulged himself was finished to be recalled suddenly by the fervent "Amen!" Breakfast was scarcely over and the kitchen in a state of quiet, when the sound of many steps broke the Sabbath stillness. Lucy emerged from her chamber in full dress to join in the tide which was pouring to a neighboring chapel. They were early, but the building was filled in a few minutes with an assemblage of eager and   t70      Richard Ireton. \ thoughtful faces which, if reproduced in our day would present a contrast to the languid attention of, most of our audiences. Lucy sank to her seat in the broad pew, and after stealing a glance at her sober - faced neighbors and the closing up aisles and stairways, fixed her regards on the minister, an elderly man who seemed to be deep - ly sensible of the importance of his mission as he unclosed the leaves of his large Bible, when the introductory psalm and prayer were finished, and turned to his text. Lucy had worshiped in the splendid church of Notre Dame, whose im- posinig ceremonials were laid up in her childish recollections, and in an ivy clothed chapel in Lincolnshire, as well as in stately St. Paul's, but this rude church, devoid of all the adornings she 'was wont to see, and this throng of Puritan wor- shipers, whose bigotry she secretly disliked and feared, presented a new and strange picture. She had -been separated from Mr. Chalmers and Anna on her entrance, separate seatstheing assigned to the males and females and the con- gregation seated according to their rank. The minister's discourse was in accordance with the character of his times, opening with a denunciation of the degeneracy of the age,   Richard Ireton.      71 its corruptions and wickedness, which he likened to the state of Sodom, and from the specifi- cation of some particular points he dropped into a tirade against the sect of Quakers,' "those disturbers of the public peace, who,- for the weal of the commonwealth, must be rooted out of the community." At this part a noise, followed by some confu- sion, broke the stillness of a distant part of the house, and a woman, thrusting aside those who interposed to her egress, made her way violently to the door. The constables rose hurriedly at this disturbance in the meeting. Lucy dared not turn round, her heart was palpitating with fright. In a moment or two the tumult was over, the minister went on, and the tranquil Amen I with the loud closing psalm fell over the silent au- dience. "It was a Quaker," said one, as, Lucy and Pa- tience passed through the aisle; "what hardihood these people have to intrude themselves into our public assemblies." Mr. Chalmers joined them in the vestibule; he had just separated with a gentleman who had been whispering to him, and his face wore a dis- turbed and angry expression.   72      Rtichard Ireton. \ Lucy waited for him to speak as he pressed up to her side, and in her tremor of agitation made, her way with difficulty 'to the street. ]uut .'in the street she presently found herself and clear of the pressure of a crowd. "Mrs.. Leslie," began her host, 1"your maid has been taken under arrest for making a disturb- ance in our place of worship this morning. Sh'e confesses herself to be a Quakeress. I am sorry, deeply sorry, that one of this pestilential sect should by any accident have been harbored in my house." Lucy tried to speak, but her voice was lost in a sudden rush of tears. She turned away her face to conceal her distress. Mr. Chalmers felt' he had been guilty of a lack of courtesy, and made an effort to atone for it, but he was angry at the double insult put upon his hospitality; he had little doubt that his guest, who called himself "Mr. Leslie," was any other than the notorious. Ireton, and now his public standing was in danger of being jeopard -  ized by the finding of a rank Quaker under his roof, a woman who had been introduced there $ , byr these people. "You will be under the necessity of clearing   Richard Ireton.-      73 yourself of the charge of any knowledge of,this. woman's character, Mrs. Leslie," he said, in a. milder voice as they entered the house. "These people have been for some time a pest to the colony. Our laws against them are stringent and faithfully executed." "I saw Anna but twice or thrice before we embarked," said Lucy, in a steady voice. "She was recommended to me by your old friend, Mrs. Ireton. She has been very kind to me in the little time I have known her. I was ill on the voyage over and she nursed me faithfully." Mr. Chalmers trod across the floor with his hands behind him. Patience ran up stairs to take off her things. "It is very unfortunate," said Mr. Chalmers, "very." Lucy sank into one of the heavy carved chairs 1and began mechanically to draw off her gloves. She blamed herself for urging Anna's attendance at church. She had feared her conduct in Mr. Chalmers house,-,her low spirits and her ex- citement when the persecutions of persons of her sect were talked off,- would excite suspi- cions which would be strengthened by her non- appearance at worship; she could not foresee the Ems   74   *   Richard Ireton. character of the sermon or the peculiarly excited state of Anna's mind, worn by the trials of the two days passed since her arrival. The girl had deeply resented her mother's sufferings and death, but instead of drawing a lesson from them, they had had the effect to endear to her the faith for which they had both turned their backs upon a home of plenty. Lucy thought of the long night hours in which that kind face had watched by her, mindful of her slightest want, while her wearied husband slept, and rose suddenly from her chair. " I must see her, " she cried. "How shall I get ad- mission to her, Mr. Chalmers?" "The magistrates will direct you when they visit you," said Mr. Chalmers, coldly. "They will summon you, probably, in the morning. You do not seem to be aware, Madam, that the bringing over of this young woman will impose a heavy fine upon Mr. Leslie,- not to speak of other probably consequences. If you take my advice, you will leave her to herself." The bitterest tears Lucy had shed since her, arrival were wept in her chamber when she sought its privacy. If Ireton had been with her, she would have leaned upon his strong support,   Richard Ireton.    * 75 but she was with strangers who regarded her with prejudice and the object of her anxieties with aversion. At dusk, Patience came in softly with a lunch of which Lucy was unable to partake. "I have brought you a light," said Patience, putting her lamp at the side of her tray. "I am sorry for your trouble. My father is very angry indeed. It is hard you should be blamed." Lucy made no reply. She simply thanked Patience for her kindness, but she did not invite her to stay, and that young lady, after lingering as long as she could, went out. Lucy did not go to bed, she knew there would be no rest for her on her pillow. She sat up in one of the stiff, leather-cushioned chairs which furnished her chamber, the full moon pouring in a flood of light through the diamond paned glass ver the heavy, elaborately carved bedstead, in its glistening white draperies, the cumbersome toilet made after the fashion of the days of Elizabeth and the richly flowered carpet. Out- side, the ground wasjwhite in the orchard with the fallen apple-blows, and a few rose -'bushes which Mr. Chalmers had brought over from England, luxuriant with leaves and swelling   76      -'Richard Ireton. buds, were distinctly shown in all their graceful outlines, while a slumberous stillness pervaded the sleeping town. Lucy thought of her husband perhaps surrounded by perils in his journey, of Anna watching away the weary hours in her prison, full of fear and dread of what was to come to her, and of her own helpless state. By and by, the solitary note of a bird came from the depths of the orchard, another followed, the east began to redden with the coming day, the town awoke, and the household indoors stirred.   --CHAPTER XI. UCY bathed her face, arranged her hair, and went down  to breakfast. Mr. Chalmers bade her a stiff " good morn- llp ing," Patience, restrained by her father's presence, dared not ask her how she h-ad rested, but her looks were full of kindness as she showed her the courtesies of the table. -Breakfast was over and Mr. Chalmers about to withdraw, when footsteps came up the walk and a voice at the-door was 'heard .to ask for Mrs. Leslie. The visitors were shown into the parlor whither Lucy proceeded, followed, at her request, by Mr. Chalners. Two gentlemen of fine appearance and court- eous manners rose to receive her. '"We have called to ask you a few questions, Madam," said the elder of the two, whom Mr. Chalmers intro- duced as L Mr. Curran." '-You arrived here in the last vessel from London. Doubtless you are acquainted with the laws which our authorities   \78      Bichard Ireton. have made respecting a certain sect called Quakers?" Lucy bowed assent, her fair face growing a shade paler than it had been the moment be - fore. "We regret," said the younger gentleman, Mr. Wylie, ' to have to state, Mrs. Leslie, that your maid, Anna Jeffrys, was put under arrest yester- day for disturbing public 'worship. She belongs by her avowal to this obnoxious class of persons, and your husband and yourself are under a charge of complicity in bringing her here, as well as the captain of the vessel. "I will clear Captain Edwards," said Lucy; "he was wholly ignorant of the character of his passenger. Mr. Leslie and myself saw her but two or three times before she embarked with us; we took her on the recommendation of a friend of Mr. Leslie's." "You had no knowledge of her fanatical opin- ions?" asked Mr. Curran, fixing his eyes full on her face. Something in the look disconcerted Lucy, the boldness and steadiness of his gaze offended her; she turned to his companion. "I should prefer, Sir," she said, addressing   Richard 1reton.,     79 herself to Mr. Wylie, " to leave you, gentlemen, -to my husband for answers to your questions. I can only tell you that I took the young woman at the recommendation of a friend who assured me I should find her an intelligent and kind servant, which so far she has proved herself to be. Mr. Leslie has gone East on some business which may keep him a week, at the end of that time I expect his return, and he will be prepared to meet your investigations." The visitors exchanged a few words apart. "I shall be sorry to trouble you farther, Madam," said Mr. Curran, " and perhaps this matter can be stopped here. It can easily be so if you will give me the -assurance that you knew noth- ing of this woman's peculiar opinions when you took her into your service?" Lucy was silent. Mr. Chalmers, from the op- posite part of the room, fixed upon her a warn- ing look. Should she sully her lips with a lie? A blush mounted to her cheeks at the instant's temptation. "I can not make this assertion, Sir," she an- swered, distinctly. , Neither Mr. Leslie nor my- self have any sympathy in her opinions, and if I had anticipated anything disturbing to the pub-   80  -Richad Ireton. lie peace from them, I should certainly not have taken her in my employ." Mr. Curran rose, and Mr. Wylie followed his example. "We will not trouble you farther at present, Madam," said the former. They took their leave, Mr. Chal-mers accom- panying them. Lucy had forgotten, under the excitement of the questioning, to ask for a warrant for admis- sion to the' prisoner, a fact which she recalled when they had gone -and went in search of Pa- tience to inquire how she should remedy her omission. "Mr. Curran is one of the magistrates," re- plied Miss Chalmers. "You will find him at his house."  Lucy disliked the idea of a second meeting; she had not been agreeably impressed with the young Puritan magistrate, but the favor was to be got in no other way, and she was fully sen- sible of the wretchedness of poor Anna's situa. tion. Mr. Curran's house'was at some distance. On her way thither she passed the jail (on what is now called Court street), the building small in - J   Richard Ireton.      81 size was surrounded by a high wall which added to the gloom of its appearance. Lucy found her way with little difficulty to a large mansion surrounded with fruit trees and flowers, and was shown- into a handsome parlor furnished with a Turkey carpet, rich brocade curtains, and couches with coverings of crimson velvet mixed with the elaborately carved and  L stiff-backed chairs. Mr. Curran's mother, a venerable lady, went to announce the visitor to her son, and in a minute or two Lucy was taken into a small room opening from:jthe hall, where Mr. Curran sat at his desk which was strewn with papers. He rose to place a chair for her and respectfully waited her pleasure. "I came to ask for a permit to visit Anna Jeffrys," said Lucy. "She was kind to me while I was ill on my voyage over-and I feel an interest in her welfare. I should have asked you for an order an hour ago, but I was too much distressed at the time to think of it." Mr. Curran was a bachelor and an admirer of young and pretty women. He was a c    urch member, but a profession of religion in-his day was a necessary step to civil honors and by   82      jRichard Ireton. many men undoubtedly regarded and practiced as such. His fancy had been attracted by the loveliness of Lucy Ireton, an interest quickly increased by the charm of her quiet self-control and wisdom in difficult circumstances, where an ordinary woman would have escaped with a falsehood, and he had shown his purpose to serve her in a few words to her host, Mr. Chal- mers. He had the power to do so with his in- fluence and unquestioned sanctity. He knew Mr. Chalmers would be only too glad to have the fame of his guests cleared and to escape from the odious suspicions of. knowingly har- boring a Quaker. "I will write a permit for you, Mrs. Leslie," he answered, "but there are reasons why- I think you had better not use it. You and your husband, my dear Madam, are still under suspi- cions on the charge of bringing her over, and as one step to convince the public of your innocence, it is necessary you should hold no communication with her." gLucy hesitated, her changing color showed her distress. "' What will be her sentence, Sir?" she asked.   Richard Ireton.      83 "' Banishment for the first offense as soon as it is proven. Her trial will. take place ina few days and she will probably be sent back to Eng- land." Anita's fate was then sealed, and sealed by her own fanatical haste. Lucy rose reluctantly to go. Mr. Curran waited for the thanks which were his due., She did not know how much she was indebted to him; she would not have been made hap- pier by the knowledge. "I am under obliga- tions to you, Sir," she said to him, " for your ad- vice. My husband will express my thanks to you more fully when he returns. I should be glad to have this young woman know I have not forgotten her. If she needs money" - "She is supplied with all she can need while in prison by the authorities," said Mr. Curran. The young magistrate accompfanied his visitor to the door where he bade hera friendly good morning and lingered a moment as she disap- peared upon the street.   CHAPTER XII. UCY went out and gladly from   Mr. Curran's office; there are such facts as presentiments 'which we would some- times do well to heeds; the atmosphere around him, with all the marked courtesy of his man- ners, thrilled her with unreasoning fear and dis- like. It was as well she could not see the occa- sion in life on which they should meet again! The hight of the Quaker persecutions was over and a very little later the laws which dis- graced the statute book of the young colonvy were expunged from it. Had this matter taken place a year or perhaps even a few months pre- viously, Lucy and her husband would lave been summoned to appear before a full bench of mag- istrates, composed of ministers and elders, but a private examination was now permitted to ef- fect the same purpose. She was left, however, to the secret tortures of suspense, which were felt the more from the marked reserve of her host,   Richard Ireton.       85 -who considered himself to be much aggrieved, both by the "letter of false recommendation and the Bringing of a Quaker under his roof. Lucy looked and longed for her husband's ap- pearance, but the two full weeks expired before he came, and she began to fear some accident de- layed his return. Anna's trial had taken place, with the result Mr. Curran predicted; the young woman received her sentence of banishment, to be put immediately into effect, as a vessel was to sail in twenty-four hours. Lucy was not present at the trial. She was told the unfortu- nate woman comported herself in a modest man- ner before her judges; the long days spent in sol- itary confinement had tamed her spirits, and when her mistress was admitted to a last inter- view with her, she wept bitterly and asked her forgiveness for the trouble she had brought upon her. Lucy said a few kind and soothing words and put into - her lap the passage money for her voyage, which she had raised by the sale of her jewels. It was a sorrowful parting. Lucy regarded the misfortune which had met her so early upon her arrival as an omen of evil; she knew she should miss the willing services and attachment ; i   86      Richard Ireton. of the poor girt, who would have helped to keep fresh the memories of the dear land they had left and so brighten the heaviness of exile. On the evening of this day, Ireton returned, and her first announcement of his arrival was by his presence, as he entered her chamber where she had been sitting apart from the household, which was now increased by the company of two or three visitors. i Lucv threw herself into her husband's arms and clung to him with a burst of tears; all she had suffered in the separation came back to her with the joy of being restored to him. Ireton soothed her acd presently drew her back to her seat. Her distress showed him that something had happened in his absence aand his quick fears suggested the discovery of his se- cret. The blood left his face, and he respired with difficulty. Recovering himself in a few moments, he seized his wife's hand and gazed searchingly in her face. "This is a strange welcome to give me after our short separation, Lucy!" he said. "I am so thankful for your safe return, Rich- ard!" she exclaimed. "You do not know what, has happened.  Anna has been arrested and i .,/   Richard Ireion.      87 tried for making a public display of her faith. To- day she was sent on board a vessel which will sail t6- night for England." Mr. Ireton listened attentively as his wife went on to tell him the particulars, his color and self-possession had returned almost with her  first words, and when she closed he looked inex- pressibly relieved. "I will see and thank the magistrate for you, my love," he said, in his usual voice. "You have acted with much prudence; I am glad we have escaped so easily." He was thankful that this affair had not taken the Ip blicity which might have been expected from it. He had not the money to spare for the fine; besides, the investigation, if it had been carried on, might have led to inquiries compro- mising his identity. Lucy had told him of the coolness of her host, which he attributed solely to this unpleasant matter of Anna Jeffrys, but this speech recalled him to a recollection of the news he had to give her. (I have succeeded in my business, Lucy," he said,- walking away to the window and turning, his back toward her as he gazed out upon the thick coming stars. ("The little homestead I have i.    88      Richard Ireton. bought is a fifty miles journey from here, a pleas- ant spot enough, with a river prospect and a town of some size on the opposite banks." "It can not be a very wild spot," said Lucy, turning with a woman's interest to the picture of her new home. "It is both wild and lonely. It will seem so to us, bred in a thickly-peopled Lincolnshire county. But I have seen lonelier spots in the last twh weeks, and, I dare say, we shall make ourselves contented. I bought the house, with the clearing, from a young man who was waiting to sell it. He had a small field of planted corn with a little garden of vegetables. I have now only to procure the services of a young woman to fill Anna's place, and our prep- arations to start will be finished." He did not think best to tell his wife the cir- cumstances of his purchase, for he feared her su- perstition would see auguries of misfortune in building up her home in a house which had been deserted by the young man who built it in con- sequence of the deaths of his wife and children. These misfortunes hads left a gloom upon his spirits which he was unable to get the better of; nothing prospered with him, he said; his cattle   Richard Ireton.      89 sickened and died, the place was unlucky; he would try his fortune in some other locality, or return to his native Yorkshire. "I shall be glad to go," said Lucy. How dif- ferent were her emotions on quitting this. beau- tiful town from what they would have been on the morning following her arrival!1 "You will thank Mr. Chalmers to-night, Richard, for his hospitality. I am anxious to have him know we shall not tax it longer." t    CHAPTER XIII.  WO days were spent before Mr. and Mrs. Ireton began their journey. The services of a strong Yorkshire girl were procured for Lucy, and Ireton purchased of Mr. Chalmers his negro, Sambo, who unwillingly transferred his duties to his new master. On the third day, the travelers set out; Mr. and Mrs. Ireton, well mounted, the servant maid, very much against her wishes, placed on a pillion be- hind the negro. The country was glowing with the loveliness of summer. Its wild, picturesque beauty, with here and there a clustering village, as they followed the post -road, drew from Lucy admiring words, and insensibly soothed her to confidence and hope. They halted for one night at an inn on the way, where they were poorly accommodated and detained for several hours by a shower which came up. At the close of the second day, they crossed a ferry, after riding through the streets of a small town, and Ireton   Richard Ireton.       91 told his wife she would soon find rest, for their home was in sight. It was a heavy - timbered, square house, with projectiing roof, built in the fashion of the times, wooden shutters, a capacious kitchen filling up mnore than half the ground floor, leaving only space for a small room at the side, with two' rough chambers above. The immense fire-place of the kitchen, would have stored half a cord of wood, -hancging shelves; were suspended from some of the naked rafters of the roof, laden at some time with rich cheeses, two or three sheaves of corn still hung in their places, and a couple of high-backed settles stood one on each side of the wide hearth. Lucy saw at first the forest trees enlaced with the hanging clusters of the odorous wild grape, the. green field, the slope of rustling corn just peering to a graceful hight with its broad leaves from the brown soil, and the sweet sprays of a jessamine climbing over one of the low windows. Some woman's hand had planted the flower, it breathed of refinement and culture, and Lucy's second thought was one of interest in the family who had preceded her in this little low house. The clearing was -inciosed with a stone wall,   92      Richard Ireton. the entrance being by a pair of heavy bars which the negro dismounted to take down, and the travelers rode in. A shed at the back of the house gave accommodation to the horses, the low mow was still heaped with a part of the fra- grant hay of the past year. Ireton led the way 'into the house, and Lucy had her first view of the interior of her home in the rosy light of the western skies, where the ,sun was fast sinking be- hind the trees, pouring a golden flood through the quivering spray of the jessamine which par- tially darkened the window. The travelers had brought no stores with them, save a little tea, packed with a quantity of spices; but a chest half filled with meal remained in the house, and the servant girl, under the direction of Sambo, who had brought in a large armful of pine boughs, and kindled a crackling fire on the hearth, prepared a basin of it for supper, in the shape of corn cakes. Sambo was shortly sent by his master in search of the nearest neighbor's house, whence he returned with a large pat of fresh butter on a pewter plate, and a jug of creamy milk. Ireton and Lucy, wearied with the fatigues and fasting of their journey, partook heartily of this   Richard Ireton.      93 frugal meal, which was served up on pewter and wooden dishes. When this was over, Lucy pro- ceeded to make an examination of the nature of their accommodations for the night. Heavy bedsteads, destitute of curtains or valances fur- nished with straw mattresses, occupied the chamrd- bers, and, with a couple of stiff chairs, and a pine table and bureau in the western chamber, com- prised their furnishing. The western ropm, on the ground floor, had the appearance of not hav- ing been put to any use, and the setting out of the kitchen was comprised -in the two long wooden settles, a pine table, an array of pewter and wooden dishes on a row of hanging shelves, a couple'of brooms made from the sprigs of young hemlocks tied to strong birch sticks, and a few common cooking utensils. "I will go into the town to-morrow morning, to order furniture," Ireton remarked. "We can make this house habitable after a while. I will have the chambers finished, and we will get a carpet for this western room. I begin to regret that we did not bring some household articles ,over with us."           J Lucy knew the length of her husband's purse and sighed. With a woman's provident care she s    "      Richard Ireton. remembered that a long, cold winter was before them when this short American summer should be over, and all their remaining resources might be needed in the opening spring, when crops were to be planted and farming utensils bought. ' We can get on very well at present with the little furniture we have," she said. "We shall need something to curtain the windows and for bed hangings,--some coarse moreen will do,- and half a dozen chairs for this western room. I have plenty of bed linen in my chest when it shall get here, with table linen, Guernsey bla'nk- ets, and a few other household articles. Mary knows how to spin flax; I shall learn from her, and we shall soon have all we need to add to our stores." " His wife's cheerful interest, as she entered in- to these little house details, called to Ireton's lips the firs; smile which had visited them since his foot had pressed the land of his exile, the land which held in its soil his grave. A glow of thankfulness awoke in his bosom for the gift of this amiable woman whose heart was so ten- derly bound to him in his misfortunes, and he wondered that so rich a reward should have at- tended the only good act of his life. HaVl any    Richard Ireton.       95 one told him when she came to his mother's house, unbeloved and unwelcome, a lonely, little waif, that the few kindnesses he bestowed upon her would have borne so rich a harvest in these dark days of his life; he would have disdained it as an absurd prediction. But the cloud returned to his brow with the bitter recollection that all the promises of his glowing youth were over, buried in this wilderness, which compassed him on very side, in whose depths he must seek safe- ty and forgetfulness from his kind. i           //   CHAPTER XIV. 8@EHAVE read somewhere that a true, un- ,I selfish love holds in itself the elements of its great reward, and I think Lucy must have been happy even in the privations and self-denials of her wilderness home ; happy in the beginning, though this happiness could not last, for, alas! the truest love will claim a full return for what it gives and will not be cheated with husks. In a few weeks,' a pleasant change was wrought in the rude dwelling; the western room appeared in the luxury of a home- spun carpet, with a hanging shelf of books in leather covers, against the wall, the chambers in new curtains and bed hangings, with the addition of a small mirror to Lucy's room and white dra- peries to conceal the naked pine table. The kitchen was left to itself, after the pine floor had been made to assume a dazzling whiteness by repeated scourings, and the pewter dishes ranged on the shelves had been brightened to a reflecting brilliancy by the same process. Ire-   Richard Ireton.      97 ton had parted with one of his horses ands pur- chased a cow, which supplied them with plenty of fresh milk and butter, and the growing corn and vegetable garden promised a good store of their kind for the latter fall and winter. Sambo was set to hewing'trees to provide a stock of fuel, in which his master gave him assistance, and Lucy went on a short excursion into the sur- rounding woods in,search of wild flowers and berries with which they abounded, and to liay in a stock of medicinal plants, after the example of her neighbors. Neighbors, properly, she had none, as the nearest house was half a mile dis- tant; but thepeople seemed klnd, though rude and rough, and afforded to her inexperience some good assistance. It was on one of her excursions to the woods that she had her first sight of an Indian, a meet- ing to which she had looked with so much alarm that she; had formed the habit of fastening the door of her cabin, whenever her husband was absent. Lucy had filled her pail with berries,--it was in the latter part of August and the fruit was very abundant,-and sat down to rest on a green knoll, before retracing her steps homeward.   98      .Richard Ireton. The wind swept gloomily through the tall oaks,--which, a hundred years later, were su- perseded by a thick forest of pines,-' the air was scented with the odors of sweet briars, which tangled their graceful vines here and there amidst the green shrubs, and large clusters of tender. grapes swayed to and fro in bright masses just touched with the beginning of a purple ripeness. Lucy was heated and wearied; her bonnet, held  C by its strings, had slipped from her' hand, and her scarf had dropped from her shoulder, when a footfall on a crackling bough fell sharply on her ear, and looking up she saw a stalwart sav- age a few paces from her. Her first impulse was to scream, her second to fly; but she controlled both,- and quietly rose, fixing her eyes steadily on the Indian whlo seem- ed to have no disposition to molest her. As she passed on be followed, keeping a short dis- tance behind her, and when, with a sob of inex- pressible relief, she emerged on the green of the little clearing, and flung herself over the bars which she was too terrified to stop to take down, her maid ran out to learn the cause of her mis- tress' excited appearance, an inquiry quickly   Richard Ireton.      99 changed to equal terror, at the sight of her sin- gular companion. He was a tall, muscular savage; his chest and shoulders naked, after the fashion of his nation, a belt of wampum, into which was thrust a knife, encircled -his waist, his feet were covered with moccasins, and his bow and arrows slung over his back. An expression of stern gr'avity sat up- on his face, which relaxed into a grim smile at the terror of the two women as he addressed a few words to them in his native tongue, which they were unable to make into English. "He says he wants food," said Ireton, who had emerged from the sittirig-room in the con- fusion, and found no difficulty in understanding the errand of the unwelcome visit, who endeav- ored, partly by signs, to assist his hearers. "Put some bread and milk before him, Mary."' The girl hurried- to obey, while the Indian threw himself on the kitchen settle in dignified silence. Lucy retreated to the other end of the apartment, unable to get wholly over her terror, unreasonable as she now knew it to be. It was always best, Ireton observed, when their visitor had satisfied his wants and departed,   100     ' Richard Ireton. to give these people freely what they asked. "' They are ill - used by the settlers," he added, "as I have noticed in several little instances, even in the short time we have been here. They look upon us as intruders settling on their hunting-grounds, and can not be expected to ' regard us with friendly feelings. Our best course is to treat them with kindness; and I heartily wish everybody in the settlement was of my opinion." Lucy's visits to the woods were over; she woul'd not hazard another fright -which might not turn out as happily as this, and it was late that night before her nerves could be composed sufficiently to retire to bed, after she had made a second round to ,assure herself that every win- dow was fast and the door securely bolted. Sam- bo slept in the kitchen, his bunk being hid in the daytime by a moreen curtain which was drawn over that part of the room. Mary, the, servant girl, occupied the chamber next to her mistress. Lucy scarcely closed her eyes for the night; she feared the Indian's visit boded danger, as she had heard her neighbors say the tribes were in an uneasy state, but with the coming of another day her exciterpent subsided.   CHAPTER XV. X! 'i HE autumn with the splendors of its gor- geous colors in the woods, richer than' A;^ Lucy had seen or dreamed of in the old world, had come and gone, and the long cold winter with its icy winds and drifting snows was creeping on fast. The house was cold and poorly warmed by the blazing logs on the open hearth; the winds crept through the crevices, holding riot in the still unfinished chambers; the western room with its woolen carpet and smaller dimensions, retaining warmth, was the most hab- itable part of the house. Here Lucy sat with her sewing while her husband read aloud to her from a familiar book, or, dropping it upon his knee, sank into one of those brooding reveries out of which his, wife's voice sometimes awoke him} with a guilty start. The loneliness and monotony of his life preyed upon his spirits, doleful enough at the outset, memory was con- stantly recalling the past and fruitful in her self-   102'      Richard Ireton. reproaches. To quit London, its coffee houses, its society, its pleasures, to bury himself in a lonely spot where there were no preferments to be expected, no fortunes to be made, would, as a natural consequence, change the character of a man, blight the freshness of youth and bring on the shadows which attend premature age ; but to this was added the sundering of every link reaching back to those happy dais, the falling of a pall of silence as complete as if they had never been, and-out of all was left to him only the companionship of a woman who, with all her virtues, could but command gratitude where she deserved love in his cold and silent heart. There were no families in the settlement whose society they could have cultivated with profit had Ireton's necessity of secrecy not existed. The. men were uneducated and ignorant, the women in no respect in advance of their lords, except by the softening sensibilities of their sex. Lucy had less time for repinings than her husband,-- besides that her past lot had been one of lonely orphanhood, while his had been cradled il affec- tion and developed in an atmosphere of flattery,- and Lucy's pure heart had no regrets folded in it, and there was no phantom to walk with her   Richard Ireton.       10 through the day and to haunt her pillow with his perpetual presence. While Ireton pondered in the mazes of unprofitable thoughts, she sewed, or spun her fine threads of flax upon her small foot- wheel by the flickering candle-light of the long winter evening, or busied herself in assist- ing her maid in the homely household labor with the preparation of the daily fare of corn cakes, varied with hominy and vegetables. Her Yorkshire maid grew discontented as the winter came on, the icy air of the new climate made her unwilling to stir abroad, and she corn- plained of the coarse fare which was shared alike by her master and mistress. She said she should go back in the spring, but Lucy hoped for the best and thought that when the long, cold winter should be over she would be willing to stay. A bleak Christmas broke upon them at the close of the year, there were no bright hollies or mistletoe in this strange land, the evergreens /were hid in the woods under banks of snow, and Ireton's horse floundered with difficulty through the tall, glistening drifts as his master rode him over to the ferry. Meat, which had not been tasted /the little household for many a week, graced the table that day, with a rich plum pud-   10)4     BJichard Ir'eton. ding, and a desert of dried fruit. The servants sat down with their master and mistress, the dis- tinctions of rank at the table had early been dis- missed, and all made a plentiful meal,-all but Ireton, whose thoughts would wander from his well-filled board and the smiling face of his wife to another family group in distant England, where sat the generous brother who had ruined himself to help him. Philip had mortgaged his property to make out his outfit, counting upon the certainty of remittances before his debt should be; due. He had a high opinion of his brother's talents and of the use to which a letter of recommendation to an influential merchant of the colonies could be put, but he made no allow- ance for the possibility that the sensation attend- ing his brother's trial might as by magic be trans- 'ferred to the scenes of the new world. The elder Ireton bad exhausted nearly all his means in the great expense attending his son's acquittal, and young Ireton saw in mental vision the sor- rowful group in Lincolnshire saddened not alone by his empty chair, but by the future of want he had brought before them. He tried to banish the scene from his thoughts, to meet his wife's smiles and sun himself in the light of her blue   Richard Ireton.     105 eyes, but every heart knows its own bitterness and his burden was not less heavy that it was' thrust back into its concealment. That night, when he laid his head upon his pillow to feign sleep, he heard his wife's low voice beside his bed breathing her simple prayer to the God she -believed in and caught his own name with the earnest petition, "Guard and pro- tect him, for he is my all!" and the awful pur- pose which had rushed upon his mind crept back to its cell never to come forth again to the light of day. No, he must live to what the Providence to which she knelt should appoint to him, he was her all, and he who had taken her from the shelter of at least a plentiful home would never leave her here in this deserted spot to die of heart-sickness and want. The time came later when another tie was added to bind the struggling man to the fate he sought to es- cape by rudely sundering the slender but subtle link which binds together soul and body, but we will speak of this farther on, in its place.   CHAPTER XVI. WHILE Ireton and Lucy began their life of privacy in the forests of America, Anna Ferrars was living scarcely less secluded in London, where she had gone up to reside temporarily in her lawyer's family. Many houses would have opened their doors to the young heiress' of William Landerdale, for the most distant branch of the family of Ferrars had suddenly become aware of the existence of their hitherto unknown kinswoman, but Anna had no desire for publicity; it was necessary she should remain on the spot while her business was in process of settlement, the first step in obedience to the form of the will being her identification as the daughter of the late Mrs. Landerdale and William Ferrars. Now, for the first time, she learned her brother's kind purpose in the form of his testament by which, apart from the endow- ment of his fortune, he had determined in the event of his sudden demise she should come forth   Richard Ireton.      107 from her seclusion to be received among her peers as an equal in birth, entitled to form a corre- sponding marriage. No such thought came to her now; all personal objects were lost sight of in the anguish of her great bereavement. She believed she should never know happiness again. The tranquil life in the quiet Hampshire village stretched behind her like the incidents and scenes of a dream. Two stories went abroad of this young woman,- one invested her with every conceivable grace and charm, the other said that her education had been greatly neglected and that her person was dwarfed and unattractive like her mind. Fortune-hunters listened to both tales with interest, and racked their brains for methods to make the acquaintance of this igno- rant young creature before another season should bring her out to the notice of a hundred candi- dates with equal chances, and some who believed the last story doubted if they could bring their minds to a match with Anna Ferrars even to pay off their debts from her shining gold and broad lands. Among the visitors who intruded upon Anna's privacy in these early days came the Northum- berland Squire and his lady, Mr. and Mrs. Fare-   108      Richard Ireton. dyce, a visit as ill- timed and unsuitable as one could well imagine. b Mrs. Barnard, her hostess, was sitting with her when they were announced, and the lady will- ingly remained, with the curiosity, which by the way is not confined to one sex, to see what could be said by these new-comers on so strange an occasion. Anna rose, the blood retreating from her cheeks and her dark eyes kindling, but the first words of the old squire as he came up and took her hand called into them the unwilling tears. "My dear Miss Ferrars," he said, -gently, " we have a common sorrow with you and we have come to express our sympathy. No one loved and honored your brother more than we, or, next to you, have met a greater grief in his death." Anna pressed the old man's hand and sank back upon her seat, while Madam Faredyce's sharp gray eyes coolly scanned the young girl's air and figure as she mentally declared all the tales she had heard of her ugliness and low breeding were evil inventions. "You are a Fer- rars, my dear," she said to her, as Anna removed her handkerchief from her eyes, " a first cousili to us, and we feel an interest in you from the re- t   Richard Ireton.      109 lationship, besides your near connection with dear William. I shall be glad to offer you the hospitality of my house; we are going back soon to Northumberland. It will give y)ou privacy and quiet beyond what you can have here." Anna's tears dried, the color returned to her cheeks. "You are kind, Madam," she answered, meeting the eyes of the hard, worldly woman with a look of reserve. "I am well provided for here. Mrs. Barnard does every thing possible for my comfort and lias put me under great ob- ligations to her." Madame Faredyce smiled. "She remembess how long she has been overlooked," she said to herself; "well, a little resentment is natural." But just at this instant the lady caught Mrs. Barnard's amused look, and crimsoned with vex- ation at the consciousness of a witness to her re- pulse. "Arabella is anxious to see you, my dear," she said, gallantly covering her defeat -when the couple rose at last to go. "She goes out very little in public since the late sad events, or she would have come with us to - day. I hope you will meet soon. I know you will be great friends,   "O      Richard Ireton. and just now your society would be a great bless- ing to my poor girl." Anna started and involuntarily recoiled as if about to tread upon a serpent. Madame Fare- dyce remained gracefully unconscious of her con- fusion. Mrs. Barnard bit her lips to check the smile which ill accorded with the sober occasion, but she had met Madame Faredyce before and knew her heart and chairacter to the core. "Yet William loved these people," Anna said to herself when they had gone, "and I might have been more gracious to them." "Talking of Arabella, Faredyce's grief," said Mrs. Barnard to her husband that night, "it is little sorrow she feels for William Landerdale. Every morning she takes her recreation on horse- back in the Park as blooming and happy as if he was not lying stark and cold in his tomb and she his real murderess. The vengeance of God will follow that young woman if there is such a thing as retribution, and I hope I shall be alive to see it.' "You are hard upon Miss Faredyce," said the cool man of law. "Such things will happen as a woman's coquetries, though not often with so   Richard Ireton.      1" grave a result as murder. But it will spoil the young lady's prospects for the present; she won't be likely to get a husband in a hurry if that will be any satisfaction to you." But here Mr. Barnard, with all his excellent knowledge of human nature, was wrong. "I shall never be happy' again!"Anna said, while in conversation with Mrs. Barnard a few days later. "I shall be glad when my business is settled and I pan quit London. Everything here recalls poor William to me, in the places where he was so familiar. When I am in the Park, and see young men ride past in bloom and health, I remember that only a few months ago he was their companion, and every street is haunted to me. I shall be better in some lone- some spot where his name has never been breathed."  "You have fortune, youth, and beauty, my dear Miss Ferrars," remonstrated the lawyer'M wife. "But poor William was cut off from the en- joyment of the fortune - it was his ah! that is the bitterness to me." "You can do much good with it, Miss Fer- rars," said Mrs. Barnard, "as an almoner to   "2      Richard Ireton. , the wants of the poor. Here in my house is a poor creature just from the colonies, without a penny in her pocket or a place to lay her head. I gave her shelter last night and to - day she is worrying how to get employment." "But if she is honest, how can she be entirely friendless?" asked Anna, roused from her grief by this pitiable story. "She is a Quakeress; I believe, and this has done all the; mischief. To be sure she is a re- markably quiet creature for one of that sect, and, if I was in want of a servant, I should not hesi- tate to employ her. She appears to have had, some education and is uncommonly intelligent.", "I should like to see her," said Anna, -with a show of interest. Mrs. Barnard called to one of her servants and Anna Jeffrys was sent in from the kitchen. "She has a good face," was Miss Ferrars's first thought; her second, " Shle is young and pretty, what will become of her, homeless and desti- tute, in this wicked London?" "You are from the colonies, Mrs. Barnard tells me, young woman," she said, aloud. "Of course you have a certificate of recommendation from the family you have served with?"   Richard Ireton.      113 "I have none, my lady," replied Anna. I "I was arrested and sent back here for being a Quaker, and I was under so much trouble I could think of nothing but to get away."- "But your mistress should have had some thought for you," suggested Miss Ferrars. - "She, too, was in great trouble, my lady, and I fear was put to much expense on my account. Her husband was absent at the time, and it grieved me to the heart to leave her alone among strangers." "I like her face,"' Miss Ferrars said apart to Mrs. Barnard. "I should be inclined to take her for my waiting- maid if I could get confir- mation of her story; it would be a charity." "It would indeed!" responded Mrs. Barnard, who heartily wished to see her young friend as- sume some of the distinctions of her rank and who had in consequence been dissatisfied with the keeping up of her country habits-in her toi- let and the personal care of her wardrobe. "I will engage your services for the present, my girl," said Miss Ferrars. "I will not prom- ise you how long, as my stay here is temporary, but we will make a bargain. What is the name   "4      Richard Ireton. of the family you have been living with in the colonies?" Anna answered that their name was Leslie, and added that they were young, newly- mar- riad people. Leshe was a familiar name with Anna Ferrars; the part of Hampshire where her life had been spent held several families of the stock, but the young Quakeress was unable or -indisposed to tell her from what paitt of the country they went; she was engaged by them in London, she said, through the recommendation of a Mr. Ire- ton, and at this name an awkward pause followed, for sifice her arrival in London it had not be- fore been breathed in Anna Ferrars's hearing. "' You have done a good act, my dear," Mrs. Barnard said to her guest as the girl went out. "I hope the poor creature will give satisfaction to you, she has had a world of trouble, from her story."   CHAPTER XVIIL NNA hoped to see the completion of her business before the gray, wet winter set in, but lawyers' delays are interminable, and though her title was proven with little difficulty, month after month glided away in the intricacies of settlements, and December found her likely to remain' a guest at Mr. Bar- nard's for some time to come. She had as yet no definite plans for the future; her grief and the seclusion of the past year had begun to tell upon her health as well as her spirits. She was compelled to resume her old habits of exercise in the open air under the advice of Mr. Barnard's family physician, and she spent a couple of hours out of each day in the Park, amidst the gay scenes of the mall, which was thronged tt this season with carriages and fashionable eques- trians. There was no familiar face to greet her in this throng, and she glanced with listless in- terest into the carriages occupied by beautiful women, or over the circle of gentlemen on horse-   "6      Richard Ireton. back, none of whom drew from her a second look. But one day a shock like the thrill pro- duced by an electric chain passed through her as she exclaimed to Miss Cecelia Barnard, signal- ing out a stranger who had just passed them, rais- ing his plumed hat gracefully in doing so to her young companion, -"t Who is that gentleman? I have met him before." "That is Mr. Philip Ireton," said the young lady, and she said no more, for the name was not one to be spoke before Miss Ferrars. "He is very like his brother,-is he not?" asked Miss Ferrars, in a voice singularly low and clear. Cecelia said he was; she could have said he was a handsomer man, that his face was finer and had an open look, for the time had been only a year in the past when Miss Barnard had been fond of Philip Ireton's attentions and had looked forward to a possible marriage with him, but things had changed; people said he was a ruined man; that he had lost everything for his brother, and at any rate the family's reputation had been ruined by Richard's trial. Cecelia was a proud and a vain girl; she would not have sacrificed her good prospects to wait for Philip had he really been her lover, but she was vexed   Richard Ireton.     117 and sorry that her first youthful fancy should have Icome to nothing, and that all her smiles and little arts had'been thrown away. "Richard Ireton is in London?" queried Miss Ferrars, as the carriage rolled up the drive. "No!" said Miss Barnard, shocked at the question. "No one knows where he is. Some say he has gone to America, others that he is on the continent. I think the last is generally be- lieved. Wherever he is, he will never come back." "And his family?" asked Miss Ferrars. "I know they strained every nerve to clear him,- how did they do it?" Cecelia hesitated. Of course Miss Ferrars knew her father had conducted the defense; she would have very much preferred her mother should have been in her place to undergo this catechism, but there was nothing to be kept back. "They raised money," answered Miss Barnard, "by   mortgage  and in other ways. Philip parted with everything he had, - so the story is told,--and his father did very nearly the same. Mr. Ireton never had the reputation of being very rich, his place in Lipcolnshire was about all he was worth, and that has gone."   "8      Richard Ireton. "Oh, how much misery to be wrought by one man's wickedness!"Anna thought. "Where was Philip," she asked, "when all this was going on? when the murder took place?" t In Hampshire, in his own house. He had some property there left him by an uncle; I am not sure if it was free from mortgage at that time; but I know it is encumbered now." AMiss Ferrars asked no more questions, her face put on that far-off look of thought which had become habitual to it; the stir of a gay equipage dashing past could not make her raise her eyes. "That was Mistress Arabella Faredyce," said the lawyer's daughter, who thought her compan- ion must have encountered those brilliant, flash- ing eyes which closely reconnoitered the interior of their carriage as their owner flew past. "I did not see her," said Miss Ferrars, quietly, and Cecelia wondered how Philip Ireton must feel at the sight of this blooming and happy l creature on this public mall. Decency should have kept her away till new objects had taken their place for scandal, but neither Arabella nor her mother were of a class to shun public opin- ion, and a little later Mrs. Faredyce's balls were none the less gay or frequented that an awful   Richard Ireton.     119 tragedy had come and passed and was still fresh ill public remembrance. I have decided to go to America," Miss Fer- rars said to her lawyer, on the evening in which he congratulated her upon the settlement of her protracted-business and told her on the morrow he would put the closing details before her. "I believe new scenes and new objects will restore to me the cheerfulness I have lost. I know it is wrong for me to spend my- life in perpetual grieving, -William would hlave wished it other- wise." ," I am glad you are coming to your senses, Anna," said Mr. Barnard, curtly. "But, my dear young lady, why should you talk of exiling yourself from your country? In the colonies you will be homesick and miserable. Here, in my house, you are surrounded with fi'iends who are happy and eager to do everything which may promote your comfort and pleasure. Stav with us, - give up this chimerical 1notion, -and come out in public at another season as your brother, could he have advised you, when living would have desired and counseled." "You are very kind, Sir," said Miss Ferrars "you and your family have already placed me   120      Richard Ireton. under obligations .which it may never be in my power to repay, but I need change for a sick heart and mind, and a change which will be entire and complete. I shall take my waiting maid over with me. I hear the obnoxious laws which made so much trouble for the Quakers are done away with, and I hope I may count upon your good offices for a letter of recommendation to some person or persons in the town where I am going." Almost everybody in London had friends in the' colonies, at least every person of mark, as the ties between the mother country and her Provinces were at this period close and warm. Anna knew that Mr. Barnard could easily oblige her, and that not one but a dozen letters could be forth - coming at her request. "My wife has a nephew in Boston," replied Mr. Barnard; "he'6 is a magistrate and a person of some note; his mother is a most estimable woman whom I have long known and esteemed., I will furnish you with a letter to them with pleasure,--if your purpose is settled,--and I have no doubt they will do all they can to oblige you." Anna thanked him warmly; and with tears   BRichard Ireton.     121 in her eyes began that very night upon her prep- arations for the important step which was to take her away from the few friends who were beginning to endear themselves to her to the new country toward which an irresistible voice seemed to be perpetually calling her.   CHAPTER XVIII. J ". ET was on the 10th of April that Anna J embarked on the vessel- which was to Ax" bear her from the shores of England. - Her friends accompanied her in the car- riage which took her to the wharf and in, sight of the forest of shipping said their farewells for many a long year. The day waited in the future when she would come back to them a blooming matron to find them in the season of decrepit old age, with their children in middle life around them, but all this was hidden from their eyes, as well as the stormy path of danger and shipwreck which was close to their young friend. -Anna went on board and retired immediately to her state-room or cabin, while the decks of the vessel resounded with the cheerful voices of the sailors mixed with the sharp tones of command as the ship got under way and, with canvas spread, wound her way down the harbor. When night came on, Anna was lying in her berth in the   Sichard Ireton.      123 miseries of sea-sickness, which was much ag- gravated by the rough waters in which the' ship plowed like a creature of life, breasting the fury of the elements. Her maid ministered to her mistress with constant faithfulness, and Anna congratulated herself as she grew better on her good fortune in the services of so kind a compan- ion. On the fifth day the ocean storm subsided, the sun rose royally out of the waste of blue waters which bounded their horizon, and Anna, refreshed by the first meal of which she had been able to partake on ship-board, declared her- self convalescent and able, with a night's good rest, to go on deck on the moirow, for the bene- fit of the sea air. Jeffrys saw her mistress in a profound sleep, and, wrapping herself in a dress- ing gown, laid down on a pallet spread at the foot of her bed. They had slept several hours, when the silence was broken by a sharp cry which seemed to pro- ceed from the decks; and, repeated twice or thrice,brought them both to their feet. They heard the doors of neighboring cabins flung open, excited voices, inquiries, screams, and a pressure of many feet up the narrow stairway. Anna   124      Richard Ireton. hastily threw on her clothes, took out from her trunk her purse and letter of recommendation with a presence of mind for which she was never afterwards able to account, and, followed by her maid, who had paused only to gather up some additional clothing as well as her trembling haste would permit, ran up on deck where a scene of frightful confusion met her. The ship was on fire! The flames which had fastened' upon'some combustible articles, were rolling up from the starboard side; women, half clothed, were wringing their hands, and filling the air with shrieks ; strong men were hurrying about with ghastly faces, and the cries of little children were heard distinctly above the crabkle of the advancing flames and the screams of the women. One of the boats was' lowered from the ship's side, but instantly capsized in the rush of part of the terrified passengers, who went down with it. Two other boats were quickly-got under way, and into this without pausing to put on board the smallest quantity of food or even a keg of water, the terrified crew and the remaining pas- sengers hurried, the gallant captain remaining at his post as the last man on the vessel, until his way of retreat was nearly cut off in the rapid ad-   Richard Ireton.      125 vance of the flames, which now licked the masts and sails. Anna stood badk in the pressure of the selfish crowd. Husbands eager to find and save their wives, women reaching with frantic haste for their children, sailors regarding only their own danger, and murmuring at the stern command of their captain, enforced with his ready-cocked pistol, to wait their turn when the women were cared for. The horror of the scene was upon her, but a strange calm pervaded her being; a sense of safe- ty through some unknown mission she carried filled her mind; the screams which pierced her ear, the struggles for precedence on the boat, seemed to have no power to move her; she waited her turn, and in the heat, and scorching breath from the triumphing flames, looked to the captain for directions. Suddenly a face which, seen in this awful strait, invested it with a new horror, bent over her, and a stranger's strong arms raised her from her feet and bore her, resisting, into the midst of the throng pouring over the vessel's side. In a mo- ment she was landed in the boat, her maid hand- ed after her, and in another instant they   126      Richard Ireton. had put off, their path illumined beyond the blaze of day by the burning wreck which, rapidly becoming one glowing sheet of flame, hulk, decks, masts, sails and cordage showered a brilliant light over the full ocean for miles and miles! The sky was set with brilliant stars; the sailors bent closely to their oars; a murmur of thanks- giving rose from the lips of two or three Puritan women .while their husbands and brothers sent gloomy looks over the vast waste which threat- ened still to engulf them in its merciless depths or to bear them on, a prey to the more lingering tortures of a death of hunger and thirst. Anna turned her face from the stranoer at her side; the air she breathed with him choked her respiration, and she would have changed her seat, but the crowded boat held her fast. It was cold; a damp wind -bringing in the morning swept over the water. Philip Ireton quietly di- vested himself of his cloak and wrapped ,it around his shivering companion.  "Keep it yourself, Sir," she said, struggling to release her- self from it. ( I am used to exposure, Madam," he answered. "You will take cold." One of the passengers, more provident than the rest, had furnished himself with a bottle of wine.    Richzard Ireton.     127 It was now brought forward and every one partook of it with the exception of Anna, who could not bring herself to accept it from the hand of Philip Ireton, much as her chilled frame needed the stimulant and warmth. The sun rose, up from the bosom of the blue ocean, and the ship which lay behind them pre- sented a smoldering mass burned aind still burn- itg on the water's edge; a few birds flew skim- ming overhead as iff in mockery of their distress with shrill cries, while far and wide the open ho- rizon presented no welcome sail, and if one had been visible in the distance, how could their little speck down in the trough of the sea hope to come to sight? By noon the children began to cry with ;hun- ger and fatigue; their mothers soothed them as well as they could, trying to bear up bravely now that the imminent danger was over, and looked to the men for the assurances which, alas! were not the echo of their own hopes. Later in the day, the passengers took the oars while the sailors got a little rest; the other boat which had at first kept theim company in their wretched situation had now drifted , apart, and was just visible as a speck in the distance. Anna found   128      Richard Ireton. her strength sinking. The sickness of the last few days had unfitted her to bear as well as her companions this exposure in an open boat, with- out necessaries, and a dizzy faintness began to oppress her, after which her brain got confused, and unreal objects started up. She thought she was in Hampshire, riding again on the edge of the moor, with the dark winter skies over her- and the rain drops dripping thick and fast over her bared head and shivering K form; again, she was bending over her aunt, this damp April wind blowing in at the window, as she wiped the moisture from her cold brow; and again, she' was supported in the arms of a stranger, whose face thrilled her with terror, while he tried to tell her in a kind voice that a vessel was in sight-" a vessel in sight" - which was the last she heard.   CHAPTER XIX. HEN Anna awoke again she was lying on a bed in a state - room, the motion of a vessel beneath her' and her maid quietly watching her. The fever was gone, her temples were cool, and she had no difficulty in remembering what had taken place or in associ- ating it with her present comfortable situation. '"Where are we, Jeffi;ys?" she asked. "The captain says w e are close to land, my lady, and shall get in to-morrow night." "And who has nursed me all this time?" "(I, my lady; no one else except a doctoron board has seen you." "The vagaries of fever are strange," Anna murmured, recalling the faces she had seen in her long dream sleep. "' I am better, my good girl. What can you get me to eat?" "( The Doctor ordered gruel and a little jelly, and you have had these ever since we were   130      Richard Ireton. picked up. I will go out and see what the cook has got." Anna's recovery was rapid as soon as she came to herself. She sent her maid that evening to take the air on the deck, saying she preferred to be alone, and the girl availed herself thankfully of the permission. She knew she would see Philip Ireton whose kind inquiiies had been con- stant through her mistress' illness and she turned over in her mind in what words she should ex- press the thanks which Miss Ferrars was so slow -to offer. Philip had not recognized her face; he had seen it but twice or thrice before, while she had been in his mother's family ; he had not as observant an eye for pretty faces in her humble class in life as his brother, lnd con- sequently was wholly unaware of the facts in her late history. "It will be better to continue silent," the young woman reflected. "I can give him no news which will afford him pleas- ure." Ireton was on the deck as she advanced, leaning in a moody attitude over the rail. He was going to the New World to seek his for- tunes, the journey was almost over, and he was uncertain of the reception which might await ' him. Alone, youth, health, and a spotless char-   Riehard Ireton. 1,1 acter, constitute a bank solid enough for any man to draw upon, but other eyes looked to this young man from the shores of the land he had left,-his aging parents and his young sisters leaned upon him for the provision which his strong hand or busy brain must make for them and for himself. He had heard nothing from Richard since the intelligence of the vessel's safe arrMival, and his fears imagined all kinds of dan- gers for the still tenderly beloved brother, who could not by the simple dividing line of a wide ocean have so lost the nobleness of his early years as to betray the- trust he had placed in him. A passing step started Philip from his musing attitude. He turned and greeted Miss Ferrars's maid with an inquiry after the'health of her mis- tress. "My lady is better, Sir," said the discreet Quakeress, keeping at a respectable distance. "She has come to iherself, and to her appetite, and hopes to be on deck in a day or two." al : "The captain thinks we shall make the har- 'bor to- morrow," said Philip. "I am very hap- py to hear that your mistress is convalescent. If I can be of any assistance to her inlanding,   132     Richard Ireton. I hope she will freely command my services." He spoke in ignorance even of the name of the lady he sought to i serve ; his offer was prompted by pity for her friendless condition her conduct on the night of the wreck had assured him of her rank and character when she stood so modestly composed in the midst of the shrieking women and her pure face and reserved air had given the satisfactory confirmations. It was unusual, but not improper for a lady, with her maid, to travel -under the protection of the captain of the vessel from home to the colonies; circumstances some- times rendered such an arrangement necessary; maid, wife, or widow,- and' Philip knew not in which of these conditions to class the fair stran- ger,-she had a claim on every man's chivalrous attentions and he' on his part was willing and happy to render them. "My lady, Miss Ferrars, has a letter of rec- ommendation to a Boston merchant," said the maid. '( I have no doubt she will be glad to have it sent on shore as soon as we arrive. I have not told her that the captain of the vessel we embarked on has taken a homeward-bound ship. She has been light - headed and out of her wits until this morning."       Richard Ireton.     133 The name which Jeffrys pronounced at the beginning of this speech drew Philip's attention, but he did not associate it fully with the sister of the late William Landerdale. It was a com- mon name in some parts of Hampshire, and this lady was probably a connection of the woman whose romantic story was still at the hight' of its notoriety, but it. was not at all likely that a woman, young, lovely, and well born, would hurry to bury her suddenly acquired fortune and dis- tinction in the rude society of the New World. Miss Jeffrys, after promenading the deck for a few minutes while Philip resumed his thought- ful attitude over the rails, went back to the cab- in where her mistress roused herself to a listless interest in the particulars of what had happened. "You are under great obligations, my lady, to one of the gentlemen passengers, Mr.. Ireton," said Jeffrys, discreetly, unconscious of her, mis- tress' start and changing color. "A' brother could not be kinder than he showed himself through the shipwreck. He has sent to inquire for you almost every day while you have been lying ill, and to - night he offered his services to me when we should go ashore." "I shall not stand in need of his services,"   134       Richard Ireton. said her mistress, shortly. a"Captain Roberts will take my letter of introduction, on shore." "But, my lady, Captain Roberts left this ship to go on board a homeward bound vessel we fell in with six days ago." "How unfortunate!" said Anna Ferrars, turn- ing her head on her pillow. She struggled- with her anxiety to settle a doubt upon her mind and yielded. "This Mr. Ireton,- Jeffrys,- do you know what family he belongs to? and his sur- name?" 'I believe he is from Lincolnshire," replied the girl. "I put a few questions to the cook, who seems to know everybody's affairs, on board. His surname is Philip." Anna sunk her head deeper in her pillow and closed her eyes, and Jeffrys, thinking her mis- tress had dropped asleep, soon retired to her lit- tle pallet at the foot of her mistress' cot.   CHAPTER XX. N a lovely spring afternoon this new ves- sel wound up the bay and passing the little islands now brown and bare, which had been robed in their green dress and vocal with birds to greet the coming of Ireton and his bride, dropped anchor at the wharf where two or three carriages and people on foot had assembled to greet expected friends and to gather news and gossip from the other side of the world. Anna did not know that the man she blindly sought had preceded her on this journey; darkly as yet she felt that an unknown hand was leading her in the path where she should go, but the shadows of her coming fell like a heavy presentiment of evil on a home fifty miles away, where a pale mother lay upon her couch gazing with tender eyes upon her first born with a sad prescience of its future, the fu- ture of the two she loved, and a husband kept his faithful watch over the treasures a merciful God had spared to his first prayer.   136      Richard Ireton. "It is too late for your lady to go ashore," Philip Ireton said to Jeffrys who had come up with a disturbed air on deck where she found everybody busy with their own affairs, the cap- tain most of all, he having been charged with sun- dry home messages and commissions. "If she will permit me, I will take her letter to her friends, or procure a messenger to deliver it." "I thauk you, Sir; 'said Jeffrys, who was al- most in tears with her perplexities and who did not look with much pleasure on the shores of the pretty town where she had spent sq dismal an experience. Here is the letter,--the captain is so busy I dare not trouble him with the errand. My lady will be a thousand times obliged to you, Sir, and she hopes to have the privilege of thanking you at an early day for all your kind- ness if you will favor her with the opportunity.' "I could do no better," Miss Jeffrys said to herself as she groped her way down to the cabin. "He is not to be blamed for his brother's misdo- ilgs- and - I could n't help it!" She found her mistress dressed and eager to go on shore. "You have sent the letter?" she demanded. ' When shall we get the answer?" ,\   Richard Ireton.     137 "The captain says Mr. Curran's house is a long way off, " replied the maid. "He was so busy and cross, I gave the letter to Mr. Ireton. He will take care it is delivered at once, for he promised to give it prompt attention." Anna looked surprised, but she turned to her task of arranging the few articles of her ward- robe which had alone been spared from the flames that had devoured her extensive outfit and a full hour passed before she spoke again. Then the tumult of a fresh arrival was heard on the deck, and a sailor ran down to say a carriage had come for Miss Ferrars and a gentleman waited to see her. A handsome young man of about eight and twenty, younger in years than a second glance showed him to be in face or car- riage almost immediately followed and gave the wearied traveler a courteous greeting, introduc- ing himself as "Mr. Curran," expressing his pleasure at receiving] a letter from his esteemed uncle, Mr. Barnard, his regrets over the hard- ships of her voyage which he had just learned, and closing by offering his arm 'to assist her up the stairway to the carriage which was in wait- ing to take her to his house where his mother was expecting her arrival.   138      Richard Ireton. Anna bowed to this animated speech with the conviction that the younger members of the Puritans had not laid aside the courtesies of lighter sects and gladly accepted his proffered hospitalities. "We were unfortunate on the voyage," she said, when they were in the car- riage. "I have lost all my outfit. I was fortu- nate enough to save Mr. Barnard's letter and my purse." "My mother will be happy to replace your immediate wants," replied the gentleman, and he threw a glance back to take in, as well as the gloom of the streets, lit only by straggling lights from the houses would permit, the general out- lines and air of the lady committed to his care, the "highly esteemed client," "the sister and heiress of the late William Landerdale with whose tragic fate the papers have long before this acquainted you." Wearled with sea - travel, shipwreck, and sickness, Anna's usually fine color had left her, she looked wan and gray, and her sad face as she reclined against the side of the carriage had little in it to tempt a second glance from a connoisseur in beauty like Mr Cur- ran. She was not of his style of fair women, either; he admired blondes, with blue eyes and   Richard Ireton.      139 golden locks, and Anna was a brunette; of the two, he secretly thought the maid the most pass- able and addressed a few common - places to her from which she seemed to shrink uneasily; her face was familiar to him, but why it was so fanmil- iar and why she was alarmed at his civil address, Mr. Curran did not remember until some time aft- er. Finding little encouragement to converse with mistress or maid, Anna's cavalier resigned himself to silence, and after winding for a long time through crooked streets on this dark even- ing the carriage came to a stop, the coachman drew in his reins, the outriders dismounted, and Mr. Curran, offering his arm to his guest, led her with formal courtesy into the house and pre- sented her to his mother.   CHAPTER XXI. ^^  .EIER RY different were the circumstances a lunder which Anna l'errars and Lucy Ireton made 'their first appearance in the Puritan world; the one received the warmest hospitalities of the house whose doors her letter of recommendation threw open to her, her aged hostess accompanying her in person to the luxuriously furnished chamber prepared for her sweet rest, while Ireton's wife, with a secret hidden in her bosom, wore away troubled hours under a iroof which she knew would have refused knowingly to shelter her, surrounded with troubles and anxieties in which she could ask no sympathy.  The one, with her religious nature moved to its depths by her long and bitter mourn- ing over her brother's fate, came fully prepared to accept the austere habits and simple worship of the Puritans, to appreciate all that was grand and noble in these men's acceptance of the hard- ships and exile of the New World for their re-   Richard Irefon.      '141 ligion's sake while the other, inheriting the lighter tone of her French parentage and seeing through the interests of the two she loved, looked with fear and dislike on the austerity of rigid forms which permitted intolerance and big- otry to grow like luxuriant weeds in the rich soil suited to them. Many persons called to pay their respects to Anna, as soon as they heard of the arrival of the visitor at Madame Curran's house, for whose safe deliverance from shipwreck, and the perils of her voyage, a public thanksgiving had been put up on the first Sabbath following. They had had a glimpse of her at church, and the story spread that she was a London heiress, who, with no family ties to interfere in her choice, had come over to the colonies for the fuller enjoyment and practice of her religious faith. The young la- dies had of course soime thoughts of the latest fashions in-their visits, and came proposing to ask more than one sly question of balls and mas- querades and court receptions, but in the first they were disappointed, by the discovery that, out of all the outfit with which she had quitted London, Miss Ferrars had saved only the dress she had on at the time of her perilous escape , ' I   "2'      Richard Ireton. from a burning ship, and for the last, the sad face of the young woman with her Quaker-like reserve checked all light questions. She had resumed the deep mourning she had put on for William, laid by for a few days in the unavoidable use of Madame Curran's gowns till she could get a new outfit of her own from a tailor, and these careless visitors went away with emotions full of pity for the sad, serious girl, whom they were at first dis- posed to envy.- Madam Curran found a new pleasure added to her home in the companion- ship of this young woman, as genial age nat- urally loves the presence of youth, and she soon grew  attached to her. "She would make her home with them," Madame Curran said, when the first fortnight had gone and Anna began modestly to speak of her departure; " how could she be better situated with strangers?" and Anna accepted the proposal with the understand- ing that a re-imbursment for her expenses in the household should be made. The purpose of her journey in obeying the secret voice which had called her here seemed to be laid aside in this settling down in the quiet life of a Puritan family, but a new presentiment had come upon her that the day of its fulfillment was as yet far   Richard Ireton.      143 off, and it was her duty to wait patiently the silent flow of events which would bring the hour to her feet. She did not dream of other ties than those which now invested her solitary life, or that the rich affections which slumbered in her nature would be called into action before that day should come, and make the act which she regarded as the first object of her being a sacrifice whose depth and bitterness couldonly be known to Him whose all - seeing eye reads the hearts of His creatures. Of course, Miss Ferrars could not take up her abode in the house of a young and handsome man, though ostensibly his mother's guest, with- out exciting gossip and comments among elderly ladies of what was likely to come to pass. Nothing would have pleased Madame Curran better than to see this gossip assume a solid foundation. She had long desired her son's marriage and had seen with regret that, though by no means indifferent to the favor of ladies, his attentions to any particular favorite never took the form of a commital. She resolved on this occasion to do what mothers so often fruit- lesslv undertake and to speak with him on the subject.   "4      Richard Ireton.' She took her opportunity, one Thursday, when Miss Ferrars was at the weekly lecture from which her host had been detained by the appear- ance of a gentleman on pressing business which was finished in time for the tete a tete his mother planned to secure. "Fletcher," began the old lady, with the warmth of maternal affec- tion in her usually cold face and voice, " it has been for a long time my earnest wish to see you married to some amiable woman who will preside over your household and care for you when I shall be called away. I believe Providence has brought the young woman who is our guest here for this purpose, and I hope you will not fail to accept what is plainly your duty. Miss Ferrars is young; lovely, and accomplished, to say nothing of her great wealth. She will make any man happy in a connection with her, and having her constantly in your house you have abundant opportunities of winning her good will." Mr. Curran did not immediately reply. In his heart he would have no strong objections to such a marriage, for, though possessed of no stmall share of wealth, he dearly loved money and would have been well pleased to add a wife's rich dower to his fortune, but he had a yery dis-   Richiard Ireton. -    145 tinct impression that the young woman in ques- tion did not look with favor upon him; the glances of her quiet dark eyes on some of the occasions of their daily intercourse had seemed to pierce into his soul; he felt that in some wav which he could not analyze she understood his character, and he did not feel particularly drawn toward her on his own part in consequence. The adage of "sour grapes" was old in Madame Curran's youth. Mr. Curran, with all his vanity, was well aware of the fact that the young lady was not for him. "Mistress Ferrars has a fine figure and a dig- nified carriage," he remarked, " but she is not very handsome. I am not sure I should be sat- isfied with so small a share of beauty in a wife." "You will soon see she is handsome in the eyes of other men," said his mother. "Such great wealth is seldom united with so many personal attractions. I did hope andjbelieve, when she came to us, I should find in her the wife I have so long desired for you, and I still hope and be- lieve Providence has this blessing in design for you, little as you seem to understand your real good." Viewed in every way, Miss Ferrars would l   "6      Richard Ireton. make a most creditable match for her son, and Madame Curran could nriot endure to witness the demolition of the air castles which she had been industriously rearing. She was wise enough to leave the young people to themselves, after this attempt to turn her son's thoughts in the right direction, and she saw with satisfaction, that his attentions to their fair guest were sensi- bly increasing, while, on Anna's side, her quiet, reserved manners effectually veiled what was passing in her mind. Madame Curran appreci- ated the dignity of character which would not stoop to solicit a declaration; reserve among young women, unlike the habits of our day, was the, fashion; in her warm admiration of her son she could not entertain any doubts of his success when the hour should arrive for him to speak.   CHAPTER XXII. f ADAIME Curran's house entertained few gentlemen ill its list of habitual visitors. Her son's friends found him in his office, and on some few occasions lingered to the hospitalities of her table. The retirement of her life was broken in upon by the introduction of her young guest, but the company which flowed in consisted mostly of young girls and matrons, who, upon the claim of a slight ac- quaintance with Madame Curran, called to pay their respects to the heiress. No doubt many of the young gentlemen would have been glad to have obtained introductions, 'hut it was not un- til a little later period that a new Governor's lady brought over the fashion of balls and mas- querades from England, to the great scandal of the elder members of the colony, and they had to be content for the present with stolen glances when the young lady appeared at church, or at the Thursday lecture, and more open looks of interest when they encountered her on her horse-   "8     Richard Ireton. back rides, escorted by Mr. Curran, or in her fre- quent promenades on the beautiful green mall, in which she took especial pleasure. Very unlike must that green common have been nearly two centuries ago from the appearance it presents in our day; then the virgin trees of the forest swayed their long boughs over the short turf, daily cropped by numbers of gentle cows, and the thickets of Beacon Hill, in the background, pre- sented a tangled shrubbery of vines and flowers which scented the air with sweetness and gave covert to a host of building birds. There was one exception to Anna's isolation from the society of male acquaintance. Philip Ireton came at an early day to pay his respects to his fair fellow voyager whom he had been so fortunate as to serve, and this meeting took place in Madame Curran's presence, in the same richly furnished parlor whose inanimate couches, flow- ered carpet and brocade curtains had witnessed Lucy Ireton's anxious waiting on the morning when she came to ask a permit from Mr. Curran to visit the malignant young Quakeress now quietly domiciled in the service of a new mis- tress under his own roof. Anna's color changed and a sick faintness   Richard Ireton.     149 crept over her as the name was suddenly an- nounced, but Madame Curran, in happy ignorance of the existence of a mystery, and well informed through her maid, who in her turn had heard the details firom Jeffrys, of Philip's kindness on shipboard to her guest, received him with a courtesy which covered Miss Ferrars's shortcom- ings; and if the young lady's eyes were scarcely raised from the carpet and her manners con- strained throughout his stay, reserve, as we have said, was the general habit of unmarried young ladies to persons of the other sex, and Philip took away with him only agreeable impressions. Madame Curran invited him to repeat his visit. She was pleased with this agreeable young man who frankly spoke of his loneliness among stran- gers, and Anna raised her eyes in dismay when she heard the invitation as warmly and courte- ously accepted. Madame Curran  could not dream of his identity with the family of the sup- posed murderer; in that case no stretch of imagi- nation could have placed him on these friendly terms with Landerdale's sister; there were many branches in the family of Ireton and some of the name wholly disconnected by blood. Philip took away with him pleasant impressions of the   150      Richard Ireton. beautiful' and reserved young woman whom he had succored on the burning ship and to whom he had given a brother's care on the frail boat where she had lain in his arms in a stupor which he had feared as he bent over her would soon change into the rigid repose of death. "She is probably a relative of Madame Curran's," he pondered as he -went out; " perhaps a dependent compelled to accept her charity," for he thought of the sad face and the deep mourning whichi told their tale of recent orphanhood. Philip's business had not prospered, or rather a very small portion of success had met him in the commencement. He had dispatched his let- ter of recommendation to Mr. Chalmers from the tavern where he took -his lodging and called up- on that gentleman in the morning, to receive a cool welcome, for the merchant's first glance at Philip Ireton's face bore out in its resemblance very distinctly the identity of his brother Rich- ard. Mr. Chalmers was barely courteous, and Philip saw he had nothing to hope for from his good offices and soon took his leave . Fortulle was more propitious a little later when he came into contact withl an old friend he had known in London, who, on discovering his situation and   Richard Ireton.      151 wants, promptly offered him a place in his count- ing-room. The salary was not large, but Philip was glad to accept it, and soon began to calculate how much he could send out of his small means to the little household who would be expecting a remittance. He dared not ask Mr. -Chalmers for his guest of a year previous, he remembered the false name and the necessity of secrecy, but his heart grew sad as he ,traversed the intricate streets and groped in vain among the business offices for a trace of the lost one who had disap- peared from the spot where he had expected to find him. He had nothing cheering or hopeful to write in his short epistle to his father; he told of his safe arrival and of the business he had en- tered, and closed with saying, "I can discover nothing of Richard and am satisfied he has left the capital of the New England colonies. He has gone farther south, or, -I hope I may be wrong in adding this impression,- he has bought a clearing in one of the settlements to the east and is setting up an experience as a farmer." This was sorry comfort to send to that distant home in; England, but it was best the worst should be told.   CHAPTER XXIII. P  HE new scenes and society of her Amer- & ican home brought to Anna'the results r she had foretold. As the weeks went by, strength 'and elasticity returned to her and the ropes of health bloomed again in her cheeks. Her. spirits grew brighter in har- mony with the sober cheerfulness which sur- rounded her; she found comfort in joining in the strick religious observances of the people who caressed and flattered her, and her long unrecon- ciled grief began to soften and fill a less absorb- ing place in her life, though the purpose which had brought her over the ocean remained as strong and distinct in her inner consciousness as in the beginnling. Escorted by her host, who was perfectly at home at a lady's,bridle rein, she made excursions into the wild scenery around Boston, and came home laden with rare kinds of wild flowers which her escort gathered for her as they passed- overhanging banks, or in tangled thickets bright with the blooms of the honey-   Richard Ireton.      153 suckle or the fairer clematis, or through wood paths bright with the gorgeous lady's-slipper, or when deeper still'their way led by the edge of some sleeping pond, where the queen of American flowers, the regal water lily, disported herself, ex- panding her yellow disks and creamy petals far down beyond the reach of a lady's skill. O1n one of these rambles they came upon an Ilnclian settlement, and Anna rode her horse into the center of the spot inclosed by- the wigwams to look at the cunning trifles which the dark- browed woman- brought out for her admiration in the hope that they would tempt a purchaser, for, from the sale of their buskins, curiously plated from porcupine quills, and their gay wil- low baskets, they added many little comforts and fineries to their small stores. Mr. Curran sat looking half contemptuously on this display, while the men in moody indifference sunned themselves in the open space and the half naked children crowded almost under the feet of the horses. Anna was silent and thoughtful as she drew in her Peins to ride away, and Mr. CurranJ, equally meditating, galloped at her side up the steep path over the forest hill.   154      Richard Ireton. "What a wretched condition these people live in," said Anna, breaking the pause. "After see- ing the dirt and filth of their wigwams and the lazy attitudes of the men, I scarcely wonder at the contempt which everybody expresses for them. Still I think the way in which you treat them is unwise and cruel." "Very likely;" said Mr. Curran, indifferently. "But what faith can be put in an Indian? They are a lazy, lying, thieving set." "They have been cruelly treated in most in- stances, " remarked Miss Ferrars; "their lands seized, their woods thinned, and many little acts of individual injustice perpetrated against them for which they can get no redress because they are Indians. Lazy they are, and my heart aches to see the prematurely aged and miserable looking squaws worn by their drudgery and precarious, life. As to lying and thieving they have little inducement to anything better." "We have sent missionaries among them," said Mr. Curran, putting on his religious face, "but the results of their labors have been small. The poor, degraded creatures can neither be civ- ilized nor evangelized; their doom is to be swept from the face of the earth and to give place to    Richard Ireton.      155 others. They will pass away like the leaves of their forests in the autumns." "They will not pass away without a struggle," said Anna; "they have courage of their kind. The murders on the borders of the eastern settle- ments are only the beginning of what may be at hand when the tribes unite as one nation. Would it not have been wiser to have treated them with kindness and consideration since they must dwindle away at last before the increase of their invaders? I wonder,- I have wondered ever since I came here,- how the goverment and council can be so blind! You fear them, you have your frequent musterings, your great prep- arations to defend your homes, and yet you af- fect to despise them and treat them in a way to concentrate their strongest ill-will." "I hate to hear a woman reason," said Mr. Curran to himself; "she always makes a bad mess of it;" aloud, he added, "No doubt you are right, Miss Ferrars, but we will leave the disagreeable subject." If Mr Curran had any settled plans in his in- creasing civilities to his guest, they did not seem likely to be fulfilled, for his keen eye saw the dis- tance between them widen more and more; while   156      Richard Ireton. the world he moved in, which was as prolific of gossip as ours, noisily expatiated upon his good fortune and told fabulous stories of the wealth of the heiress whom a kind Providence,- to use the superstitious language of the period,- had sent to Mrs. Curran's house to reward with her hand the virtues of this most estimable and zeal- ously correct young man. Upon the training field, the broad common, where men of different ranks and ages gathered to perfect under military review in the necessi- ties which might at any hour call them forth to defend their homes from the Indians, Anna again saw Philip Ireton whom she had met twice in the interval since his first visit at Madame Cur- ran's house. It was in the early October, the sun shone with its peculiar brightness in these long still days through the hazy atmosphere, the woods in the foreground were draped in their gayest robes of gold and dusky crimson, colors which touched with their gorgeous tints the forest trees whose long branches waved over the heads and sober faces of the assembled companies that, armed with muskets, firelock or pike, the rude weapons of war, went-through their evolutions   Richard Ireton.     157 much to the pride of their officers and the ad- miration of the intent spectators. Mr. Curran, mounted on a handsome horse, took a conspicuous part in the display, and more than one young lady envied the quiet stranger who, except for the returning bloom in her lately pale cheek and the happier expression shining in her sad eye's, seemed unelated and unconscious of the prestige of her good fortune. Philip Ireton's eyes turned to the group where she stood, the blood coursed quicker in his veins, and his heart warmed to the momentary glimpse of her face in the distance. He had been so unwise as'to let his thoughts linger upon this peerless creature, to be won by her lovely face and quiet ways and the sympathy which' his kind heart felt for the situation of dependence in which he believed her to stand. He knew it was all a piece of folly, that marriage with a home life full of a woman's little cares and tender kindnesses was not for him, all he could save from his small salary be- lollged to the dear ones in the distant home, but, like the ignorant moth which flutters in the red flames of the candle, he would Enot keep away from the object which enchanted him. Anna, suddenly, in glancing down the lines,   158      Richard Ireton. met his gaze fixed upon her, and her pulses stood still before the strange revelation it brought with the discovery which was mirrored back in her own heart on the instant! Trying to recol- lect herself she tookl the arm of an old gentle- man who had approached her, and spoken to her, for support. "I am faint," she sAid to him. "I am ill; will you please to take me out of this crowd?" and with a father's kindness he drew her away to the foot of the hill, where, putting back a cluster of creeping vines, a rock presented a ready seat. The reverberations of the mus- ketry broke loudly in the air, while an old man, bending his decript form with the courtesy of youth, gazed pityingly into her pale face and said something of hurrying away to bring water. "Stay, Sir!" said Anna, "I am better." Now, for the first time, she knew the sacrifice the still small voice called to her to offer up to her brother's blood; the life of the brother of the man she deeply and hopelessly loved, who, stainless through any error of his own, must bear his part in this mournful drama, and, denied the woman of his love, or wrecked in his fortunes, endure in silence and sadness the 'penalty of a great crime!   CHAPTER XXTV. HE long New England winter had passed away, the Aplil winds were still bleak and cold, and the snows lingered around Ireton's dwelling, untrodden in the deep forests which bounded the horizon save by the tread of wild animals. While the vessel which wafted Landerdale's sister to these bleak shores yet lay upon the seas, and the unconscious girl was wrapped in the delirium of fever, two or three of Lucy's neighbors with sympathizing faces surrounded her couch, where, in the gray dawn of the morning, a puny infant had opened its eyes and drawn its first innocent breath in a world of sorrow and trial. It was a gray morning out of doors, a snow-fall the past night had weighed up the hemlock trees which stood in a clump at the back of the house, and the dull, leaden sky pre- dicted another fall, while the sad east wind sob- bed and moaned down the wide chimney anac- companiment to the crackling logs which were doing their best to give warmth to the room.   160       Richard Ireton. "It's an unlucky house," whispered one of the settler's wives as she turned away from the ghastly face upon the pillow. Missus Leslie will never come out of these faints. It's a pity she should n't take her baby with her." Ireton, who had come in and stood by the side of the bed, motioned the woman away and bend- ing over his wife took her death-cold hand in his. At his touch the feeble life stirred, a look of consciousness shone in the heavy eyes. "I shall not leave you," she murmured; the lids dropped, and with a faint smile around her lips, she sank away into a long, refreshing slumber. Day and night, tender vigils were kept in her room; the neighbors' gossip, when they came intent on friendly visits, was shut out, and the neighboring town was searched for delicacies which could tempt the sickly appetite or build up the feeble strength. "He loves me; I have'wronged him; "Lucy thought as she lay languid upon her pillow, min- istered to by he'r husband's gentle attentions, and guarded by his watchful eyes;,and at that moment Ireton really deceived himself and be- lieved that the miserable passion of the past was   Richard Ireton.       161 gone and a purer affection for this amiable and deserving woman had taken its place. "Who does she look like?" was Lucy's first question as the frail little creature whosfe price had - very nearly proved to be her mother's life was put into her arms.  She could trace no likeness to Ireton in the tiny features, but an- other likeness was imaged in them which carried her back to the earlier scenes of her youth, to the presence of a fond mother who had watched her own cradle, and whom her recollections pictured with a hectic glow on her cheeks, and a look of unutterable sadness upon her features, spending long hours in troubled forebodings over the future of the little lone for whom, her prophetic eyes made clea'rer by the nearness in wh'ch she stood to the land of spirits, saw years of trial and sorrow. The fair English blossom  had not thrived, though transplanted from its own cold and foggy climate to the sunny province of Lan- guedoc; left to herself while her gay husband wasted his time and fortune in one of the most splendid and profligate courts the world has ever seen, she early saw the fading of all her happy dreams and the realization of the kind /   162      Richard Ireton. warnings which her friends had lavished upon her when she accepted the promises and faith of a stranger. The birth of a child brings back a mother's thoughts to the days of her own youth, to the love that was then so little prized but whose depth she now knows, and in her joy over her babe Lucy dropped a few quiet tears to the memory of that other life ,which had withered in its morning, leaving strangers' tears to drop around the bier with the wondering grief of the little one, who heard for the first time of the mystery of death. "We will call heq Marie," Lncy said, and so the child took the name which the sorrowful, neglected one had borne before her. The long winter had broken up and the snows disappeared from the ground before Lucy ven- tured forth, to find the river banks purple with violets, the tall columbines nodding from their fastnesses among the rocks, the running brooks yellow with the golden cowslips, and the bud- ding trees alive with the songs of numerous birds flitting hither and thither for materials to build their nests. The long, cold season had borne heavily upon   Richard Ireton.      163 each of the inmates of the little cabin, but most upon the delicate young wife whose appetite had rejected the coarse Indian meal in its different forms of preparation which, with a few vegeta- bles, came upon their daily board. The icy winds stealing through the crevices of the walls chilled her warm blood, and the repinings of her maid, unused to such hardships, with the gloomy spirits of her husband in whose silent despondency over the extinction of his opening career she sympathized, added the feather's weight to her burden. Now a better state of things had come with the breaking of the win- ter's fetters, the blossoming out of inanimate life, and the birth of the little one who had come to her mother's weary heart as a messenger of peace. The little clearing became alive with the pleas- ant sounds of labor. The book was laid aside with the hours of meditation by the winter hearth; the ax ceased to ring in the woods through the sunny days, but the soil was turned up by the rude plow to make ready for the seed; the vegetable garden was laid out and a new clearing was, by hardy strokes from the forest fenced out for the cows, for a second heifer had been added to the stock. Mary consented to   164      Richard Ireton. stay with her mistress through the summer, and the two, under the direction of Lucy, set to work to beautify their homely place with a few wild vines and plants brought from the woods and a Slip of a white rose bush, the gift of a neighbor whose mother had brought it over,- or rather the stock from which it came,- on heir voyage from England. Their fare, too, grew better; partridges, though lean, abounded in the woods and were snared by the settlers; sometimes a deer was shot, which furnished a supply of veni- son, and the river abounded in fish of various sorts. The babe grew and thrived. It was a bond of suddenly awakened interest between Lucy and her neighbors from whom she derived some information in its nurture; altogether, life grew better and brighter to the young settler's wife who had outlived the hardships and de- spondencies of the winter to find a spring of hap- piness and plenty.   CHAPTER XXV. fi, E can assure ourselves of few things ,?^.  min this world of ours beyond the'exist- ence of an all- seeing God, who guards every step we take, and   the mortal experience which must come to us all when, like our fellows by  whose  dying beds we have watched, we, too, go out in silence and alone into the valley of thick shadows. The few weeks of spring,- the May which alone de- serves that promising name out of the horrible weather we have here in New England at this season,-- and the long bright summer had scarce- ly gone, the ponds were still white with the firagrant water lilies, when Anna Ferrars's prophecy on that homeward forest ride with Mr. Curran began to find its fulfillment, as, far and wide, the Indian tribes, aroused by their wrongs and their jealousies of the white invaders of their lands and hunting grounds, began to form into-a dangerous league' and the torch of, war was put   o166      Richard Ireton. to the farthermost eastern settlements, from which came up ghastly tales of bloodshed and misery, the long march of captives through the wild woods to the French towns, to be sold for a little powder, or a new blanket, into bitter servitude, and the horrible sights of mutilated human beings without distinction of age or sex stretched on their own -hearths in the ruins of their chaired and, blackened homes. Expedi- tions were fitted out by the Governor and coun- cil, trusted to men of mark and ability; and with solemn prayers and careful preparations they set out in search of the enemy who, at home in their woods and on the borders of their rivers, knowing every foot of their territory, had the ad- vantage of admirable defenses and presented a formidable front to their opponents whom they could harass at almost every turn and on some occasions shut in completely in the depths of un- known morasses from which there was little es- cape but through the mercies of the infuriated foe. But, alas, for the determined Indians! Bravely as they gathered to battle, they did not count upon the overpowering temptations, to de- fection in their ranks.  - Individual character exists very much in the   Richard Heton.      167 savage as in the civilized, tempered only by cir- cumstances; there were some who, in their need even of the bread which sustains life, could not re- sist the bribes which were offered them, and these wretched men piloted their enemies through the deep woods and into the swamps to the fastness- es of their kinsfolk and stood at the side of their allies while the assault went on which could ter- m'inate in but one way in an open field with the superior means and stores of the whites. Large fields of corn were devastated, stores burned, women and children sacrificed to the manes of the murdered families of the settlement, and when another winter came on, the Indians, with spirits as yet uinsubdued, stood on the blackened spots which had been the site of their wigwams with the remnants of their families hungry and naked around them. Their hopes were high and strong; they were ready to perish in the strug- gle, for they must now have discovered what would be their fate; but, armed with French gold and the weapons which the government of Can- ada had put into their hands, they believed the doom of their invaders to be sealed with theirs. Ireton kept from his wife as well as he could the tales of the conflagrations and murders in the   168  -Richard Ireton. east which were rapidly nearing them; but the neighbor's tongues could not be silenced, and Lucy, pale and trembling, looked out on the riperiing harvest slope whose golden ears it might not be their lot to gather in, and clasped her in- fant closer in her arms with the thought of the perils which menaced both the objects of her love.       - "We will go into the garrison," Ireton said one morning as his wife took her place at the breakfast table with pale cheeks, for all the long night she had waked in the wild tumult of the winds and listened in every pause for the shrill whoop of an Indian.   "Cummins and Locke moved their families yesterday. I have put it off to the last moment, but I begin to think that our safetv may require us to follow their ex- ample." He might have added, "It will be so hard for you to mix with these people, Lucy," but Mary was present and he closed the sentence in a dif- ferent way. P    " 'We can do no better," said Lucy, trying to be cheerful. "I am glad you, have made up your mind to it. I think we had better go at once. Mary and I will pack up some of the   Richard- Ireton.      169 necessary articles we must take this morning. It is hard to leave our little home just as we have begun to make it comfortable." "I trust it will not be for very long," replied Ireton. "The Governor and council have acted with promptness, and I believe forces of volun- teers are already in the field. The savages can make but little way against them, and I hope they will put an end to these disturbances be- fore winter is out." "It is not likely they will penetrate here," said Lucy, trying to gather courage from her hus- band's assurance. "Do they take garrisons?" "Sometimes-but rarely; I have heard of only one instance. There the men were in the field and had carelessly allowed themselves to be surprised; the place was defended by women and boys and after awhile it was surrendered on promise of quarter which was kept.   These women were finally ransomed and restoled to their friends." "And the men were killed?" said Lucy, shud- dering. She got up from the table, leaving her breakfast, and began her preparations. Her bed- ding was to be carried over, her wardrobe, and a part of the furniture --as much as could be   170      -Richard Ireton. accommodated in the chamber that would be spared to them, with the best of her cooking utensils for the kitchen of the garrison house. By early noon their preparations were finished, and, a gloomy little band, they set out, the horses equipped with the baggage and led by Sambo, whose woolly head was keenly alive to the terrors of the Indians to whom people of his color were supposed to be particularly obnox- ious, Lucy walking by the side of her maid, who carried the child, Ireton following in charge of wo cows which manifested at almost ever y step a disposition to wander away into some of the green avenues which branched out in all direc- tions until they were safely inclosed in the palis- sades which surrounded the building. The garrison house stood on a green slope with the river winding round it and interposing a natural defense to the north and west; the forest had been cleared for some distance in front, affording no covert for a foe, and a large field of rustling corn, with a plot of vegetables and. a cluster of outhouses, spoke well for the thrift of the owner. In itself it was a large, rough structure, with a wide, projecting roof, the windows made small in the lower part, where   Richard Ireton.     171 they were secured by heavy shutters.  The women gave Lucy a cordial welcome and busied themselves with no little curiosity inl helping her to put her household goods to rights in the small space allotted to them. Lucy would willingly have dispensed with their busy hands and noisy tongues, but she fearedto give offense by reject- ing their good offers, and indeed a storm had al- ready begun with only the juxtaposition of the last twenty - four hours. A quarrel between the children of the two families, Mrs. Rowe's and Mrs. Cummins's, had been seized upon by) their elders and a hard battle of words had been fought in which Mrs. Locke vainly tried too use her skill as a peace-maker,leaving the to o bellig- erents with gloomy faces and altogether indis- posed to the, courtesy of acknowledging each- other's presence. "It's always the way with Mrs. Rowe," said Mrs. Locke, aside to the new comer, " she keeps everybody in a ferment wherever she is, and she says it's somebody else that is to blame. She's got a tongue of her own,-that woman has,- and there won't one of us escape it before we've been with her a week." Lucy smiled, and turned to her husband who   172      Richiard Ireton. was contemplating with a thoughtful air the ar- rangement of their few valuables. CThere were other articles packed to come over, yet every corner was full. "Where shall we all sleep?"Lucy asked. "Oh, there's plenty of room in the kitchen," answered Mrs. Locke. "You and your man will have this room to yourselves, a curtain can be run across one end of the kitchen for Mary,-- Mrs. Cummins's boys sleep. there,-and the negro can be put anywhere." "That point is settled," said Ireton, with an amused look. "' I believe dinner is ready, from the noise below. You must be hungry, Lucy, since you have not broken your fast to- day." Mrs. Locke led the way to the kitchen where two tables had been put together to accommodate the enlarged family and additional plates brought for the last comers, the younger members of the household, with the negro, waiting to take their places as soon as they should find room. The board was covered with a coarse cloth on which was arranged pewter plates and cups, with a couple of large wooden dishes in the center filled with hominy,- a kind of culinary prepara- tion made of beans, corn, and a little salt meat   -Richard Ireton.      173 cut in fine bits for seasoning, the whole thor- oughly boiled or stewed,- and two other dishes heaped with corn cakes. A small platter of but- ter was placed apart from these, which with a sup- ply of corn or rye coffee well whitened with milk, and poured from a full kettle on the hearth, constituted the meal. The men ate heartily, the women followed their example. Mrs. Ireton, with daintier ap- petite, took exceptions both to the preparation of the food and the manner of serving, as well as the noisy conversation of the farmers; she had yet to see what; warm hearts beat under these menri's rough exteriors, for general hospital- 4  ity and good will were among the strongest vir- tues of our forefathers. 'They had the wilder- ness to break up, the wild elements of nature, the fierce beast and the fiercer savage to contend with, and they brought to this work the stern- ness of character and obstinacy of purpose which could alone accomplish it. But Lucy was not an emigrant's wife; she came to these wilds as the companion of her husband who sought security in them. "If we could only have privacy," she thought to. herself as she retraeted from the table, "I   174      Richard Ireton. would never murmur again over the hard fare and few comforts of our little cabin." She re- membered the cold winter was near at hand, when she would not be able to retire to the peace of her chamber, but -must spend the long days and longer evenings in this uncongenial company, made up of discordant and, disturbing elements.   CHAPTER XXVI. j HAVE seen the spot where Lucy's long ff ll gautumn and winter passed away. The I jhouse is still standing, but bears scarcely a resemblance in the alterations it has under- gone to the rude building of two centuries ago, when the screams of the panther came from the neighboring woods and the Indian lurked with his bow and arrow, and tomahawk in wait for a victim. As little could I realize that the lands, scattered with white houses and neat gardens, were then peopled by a few hardy set- tlers, who made the sterile earth yield their bread, and toiled with 'their muskets at their sides through the long, solitary days while their wives and little ones watched for them in fear and trembling if their homeward steps delayed for a few moments to the dusky twilight. Lucy saw from her window the splendors of the autumn landscape kindling the horizon on every side, the tired tread of the men as they   176     Ricthard Ireton. came home at night- fall from the field and the sturdy step of the morning as they passed out in the frosty air to gather their harvests. She feared for her husband, she feared for herself should the peril which kept her waking by night and haunted her dreams by day come to him, and not least of all she feared for her babe whose tender helplessness claimed her protection. She was not popular with the women of the garri- son; she'did not mingle with them, but her quiet reserve effectually shielded her from the rough altercations Which often took place between -Mrs. Rowe and Mrs. Cummins, into which Mrs. Locke was occasionally drawn with all her good- intentions to remain neutral. Mrs. Rowe was vain and passionate; she prided herself on her housewifery, on her children,- especially on the beauty of her eldest daughter, of which prop- erty the poor girl with her small blue eyes and irregular features possessed but a very modest share,--and on everything that was hers with the exception of her husband, who, poor man, doggedly made the best of his wretched mistake in taking this uncomfortable partner to preside at his board and hearth, and parried her assaults with a sullen indifference 'which opened to her a   Richard Ireton.      1" new theme of frequent and delightful expatia- tion on the faults of his temper. 4"Will that tiresome woman never be done?" queried Lucy one day as she sat in her chamber reading aloud from a book of devotions to her husband. It was the Sabbath; one of those November Sabbaths when the dropping leaves and the gray skies soothe us to softness and mel- ancholy. "She keeps at it firom morning till night, now it is, her husband, now her children, or some unlucky person who crosses her. It is wonderful how she does so; or how she can be so blind to herself." Ireton smiled back to his wife's remark, but- without making a reply, as he rose and closed the door which stood ajar while she resumed her book. But, unluckily, iMrs. Rowe's daughter had heard the speech from the stairway and promptly carried the report to her mother, whiose resept- ment was now aroused against poor Lucy and deepened by the coolness which had already of- fended her. "I do n't know what you call yourself, Mrs. Leslie," was her rough salutation the next morn- ing, when the men had passed out into the field   178      Richard Ireton. and Lucy was preparing to step into the yard to get the fresh air with her baby," but I know you're no better than any of us if half as good, with all your airs. You think your husband's a gentleman, and he may be, I've nothing to say against a man that minds his own business, but if he knows what's proper, he'll stop you from saying any more saucy things about me." Lucy looked at the infuriated woman with a glance of haughty surprise, and wrapping her shawl carefully around her passed-out without deigning a reply. "She 's no better than she should be," said Mrs. Rowe, standing in the door-way and straightening up her short figure to look after her. "I don't believe they are married at all! If the man's good for anything, what's he skulking here in the woods for with an edication, looking down on respectable folks?? No decent woman would wear such clothes as she does in her cir- cumstances,--they ain't none too good; I've been making up my mind to this for some time." "For shame, Mrs. Rowe!" said Mrs. Locke,- Mrs. Cummins wisely kept at a distance from her enemy,- " how you do run on! Mistress   Richard Ireton.      179 Leslie is a nice woman; she do n't trouble any- body, and the best you can do is to let her alone." "You humble yourself to her, do n't you, Mrs. Locke?" cried the woman, fiercely. "Well, I do n't humble myself to any such creatures. She's no better than she should be with her inso- lent looks, or the man she lives with either. I 've never forgot that when I went to their house a six month ago on a neighborly kindness, he turned me out of the room.' Mrs. Locke went back silently to her washing, Mrs. Rowe glowered to herself over her spinning wheel, and Mrs. Cummins's voice was pitched to a high key in scolding her children whom she had detected in some petty misdemeanors. "They were the worst young ones that ever were born!"Mrs. Rowe had declared repeatedly, and her face softened into a smile as her attention was away for a moment from her neighbor's offenses. Lucy stooped to gather a few of the yellow marigolds which still bloomed in the shelter of the projecting eaves, though the first snow-fall had come and gone and the air was chill and gray. The bright hues of the neighboring woods   180      Richard Ireton. had faded into the sober dead-leaf brown and' some of the trees stood out bare amidst the ev- ergreen pines which kept their perpetual ver- dure through cold and heat. The river rippled at her feet, its blue edge frosted with the silver ice crystals, singing its monotonous psalm. The presence of- nature soothed her after the angry sounds from which she had, escaped, the grieved lines left her mouth and the smile came back to her lips. "We will have a home of our own, lit- tle one," she murmured, bending caressingly over her babe-"a home of our own again when this cruel war is oyer, where nobody shall molest or trouble us."   AP   ER XXVII. CHAPTER XXVII. HE cold winter days had come when Lucy was obliged to quit her chamber to take her place with the others near the crackling fire in the wide-mouthed chimney. The kitchen occupied the whole of the ground floor, the only compartments being made by curtains which, drawn by night, gave privacy to the occupants of the extemporized chamber. Large flitches of bacon were sus- pended by hooks from the walls,- with hanging shelves of cheese and golden sheaves of corn. The dishes and cooking utensils were, also ar- ranged on open shelves, the pewter being kept as bright as careful housewives could make it; and three or four high-backed settles with pine tables, chairs, a spinning wheel, loom, and bunches of dried herbs suspended overhead, would have made up the inventory. Lucy bu- sied herself with her wheel, adding to her house- lold stores from her heap of fine flax, while her   182       Richard Ireton. maid performed both her own and her mistress' part in household matters, and both shared in the care of the baby. Mrs. Rowe, stern and sullen, worked at her loom, wholly ignoring young Mistress Leslie's presence except now and then by some pointed speech which Lucy was too wise to heed. Mrs. Locke followed the in- dustrious example of the two ladies, while Mrs. Cummins found abundant use for her tongue in scolding her children who, Lucy began to think, merited all Mrs. Rowe had said of them, for they made great trouble in the little community. The men went with their axes into the woods, their rifles swung over their shoulders, to make new clearings or to provide fresh heaps of fuel, which taxed Sambo's time to prepare irto a feed- ing shape for the great chimney whose consum- ing powers in winter were almost beyond calcu- lation. The negro skulked from his share in felling trees; he had worked faithfully at his master's side the previous winter, but such a fear of the savages had come upon' him, that he could scarcely be persuaded beyond the shadow of the palisades which surrounded the garrison, inclosing the cattle: and horses; and Ireton, after trying argument ahd  ridicule, gave up to the   Richard Ireton.    '  183 terror which seemed to have takena constitu- tional form- in his-servant, and seldom compelled him to bear him  company abroad.  "Sambo will protect the women folks ;" said one of the men, jeeringly. Mrs. Rowe retorted, "A crow could do as well; it would chatter ;" but the ne- gro kept to the palisade fence with a prudent care for himself. Mary was the only member of the family to whom the breaking up of their little household, with the terrors of the time, brought no discomforts. She liked the society of the garrison, the women were kind to her if they resented her mistress' superiority; she had plenty of courage for the long lonely days when the men were at their labors in the woods, as well as the long dark nights, and more than all she had no one's safety but her own to trem- ble for. The Christmas season came round, bringing with it an abundance of good cheer, but to one busy mind at the board a fresh retrospect of bitter memories. 4 Mr. Leslie is always in low spirits," Mrs. Rowe said to her gossip, Mrs. Locke, who had finally won sure ground in her estimation, though Mrs. Cummins was so envious as to de-   184      Richard Ireton. clare the friendship arose from the fact that no one else would have intercourse with the bellig- erent woman. "He has something on his mind, that's plain. I should n't wonder if he has done a crime in the old country and came over here to hide it." "The poor man has got enough to make him miserable to look at his wife," Mrs Locke an. swered. "She mopes from morning till night over her wheel and hardly says a word to him or anybody. They are homesick, that's the mat- ter, and I shouldn't be surprised if they both went back in the spring--supposing they've the money to start with." "Homesickness do n't make a man act as Mr. Leslie does," persisted Mrs. Rowe. (' The man is as nervous as a woman, and he'll sit for hours thinking while other folks are talking. He's got something on his mind, and something wicked I know.   Now, if I was superstitious, - and thank the Lord I ain't, --I should be afraid the man would bring some bad luck to us. I've hearn of such things." Mrs. Locke, who was superstitious shuddered, and with a  " Pooh!" stepped back to her loom at the side of Lucy's wheel where the young   Richard Ireton.     185 mother, holding her babe in her arms, was gaz- ing half sadly at the likeness to one, hundreds of miles afar over the blue seas, a likeness which was growing more distinct every day. The long cold days wore away; a little warmth came with the April sun; the snow began to yield in the deep woods; the buds swelled on Mrs. Rowers cherry trees, and a few robins came round the door to gather the crumbs the chil- dren threw out. Tales of murders on the border settlements had ceased to pale the cheeks of the settlers' wives, and Lucy began to hope that as the summer came on new successes would crown the volunteers in the field,land the day would not prove far distant wfien they should return to the little cabin and set up the altar of a private household, where the bickerings of others and the many little forms of ill - will which a bad woman's dislike can take would be shut out. The settlers still went in a company to prepare the ground for their crops, as they had together battled with the giants of the forest in the win- ter, and kept their trusty rifles within reach, but a sense of security was around them; they be- lieved the Indians subdued if not broken in spir- its, and they looked forward to few other acts of   - 186     Richard Ireton. barbarity or mischief. Their little settlement had escaped the visitations which had been freely dealt among their neighbors; their deserted houses were standing, not a trace of a moccasin had been seen on the virgin snows of the fields or the deep woods, and they probably believed that the vicinity of a little town, though as to- day of small note, had assisted in giving them- protection. It was in May, in the early part of the month, that this delusion was broken in a manner as startlingly sudden as it was terrible. Mrs. Rowe's two eldest children had teased their mother for permission to go into the edge of the woods in search of the winter berries which were usually abundant there, and, worn out by-their teasing, she sent them forth with angry words and an abundance of cautions. "It's a piece of folly; it's tempting the Lord ;" said Mrs. Cummins, as the mother stood at the little window watching them disappear from sight. "It's like as not :the Indians are round ; they were to Fall River a few days ago. I'd sooner drive my children into the river than let them go into the woods to be a prey to the savages."   Richard Ireton.     187 "You 'd better be minding your own business," retorted Mrs. Rowe, turning upon her, sharply. t What's your right to meddle with my children, I'd like to know. As to your brats, if anything should happen to them, it would be a mercy to everybody in this garrison, for they're making a noise and a racket from morning to night." "I sha'n't quarrel with you," said Mrs. Cum- mins, hiding her aggravated feelings under an air of composure. "' Everybody here knows what you are." "f They know I'm a peaceable woman that 's dreadfully put upon," said Mrs. Rowe. "Where I lived afore I came here, I never had a bad word with anybody; my old neighbors know what my disposition is." "6 They. muSt be stones and sticlks," muttered Mrs. Cummins in an undertone. Mrs. Rowe marched in dignified silence to the fire and took up her knitting, putting her chair in a position to place her back to Mrs. Leslie, a trick she was particularly fond of doing. Dinner had been got over and the men gone to the field before the children started out with their pails; the long May afternoon wore away, the hour of twilight approached, the women   188     Richard Iretodn. went often to the windows, Mrs. Cummins alone remaining immovable at her loom, to see if they could catch the welcome sight of the children crossing the open space. '"They must have gone farther on," ventured Mrs. Locke, to still the fears of the alarmed mother who could be kept with difficulty from snatching up her hood and making her way after, them; " they didn't find the berries plenty on the edge and have gone on. Children-like, I do n't doubt they're sitting on a bank resting themselves now. They'll soon see the sun'is going down and hurry out." "I do n't believe it!" shrieked Mrs. Rowe. "Sally is sixteen, - in another month she 'll be seventeen,-she knows better than to worry me so, and there never was a greater scarecrow than that girl; besides, I would n't have let her go if I had n't known I could trust Jer. If she has strayed away and stopped to pick berries, I 'll whip her when she does come till she 'll never forget it the longest day of her life, great girl as she is!" Still the twilight crept on, the sun went down out of sight behind the pines, and the men in slow file came up with their rifles at their backs i   Richard Ireton.      189. and their hoes in their hands. Mrs Rowe ran out to them, wringing her hands with violent ges- ticulations, while Mrs. Locke followed to make her story intelligible. The men looked into each others' disturbed faces, the father shouldered his musket and turned his eyes in grim expectancy on his companions. "We must start at once," said Cummins, speaking up promptly, while a little pause fell on the terrified. women and children grouped around them. "Some of you take Mistress Rowe into the house. We'll bring back her children if we can; leastways, we 've got a clear night to start on.' "Oh, I never shall forgive myself! I never shall!" sobbed the poor woman, as, with gentle force, they drew her away. "i My darling Sally, my dear little Hetty; if I had only kept them back ; it was tempting the Lord, as you said, Mrs. Cummins. They won't come back; I feel they wron't come back!    CHAPTER XXVIII. M-f  ITH resolute faces th e three men plunged into the woods, Ireton following with an instant's pause to see that his musket [b was fresh primed and his pistol ready for use. The earth was green with patches of moss brightened by a long rain, and fragrant odors rose up from numerous sprigs, roots and plants, trodden upon by their -hurrying feet. As they plunged farther in and lost themselves in the solitude, a vast expanse of forest rose before them, in most parts clear as an English park, from the well known habit of the Indians in kindling fires to consume the undergrowth in the fall. Here they halted for a few moments. The wood nearest the garrison had been searched without giving any signs of what they sought, and their course must be promptly settled upon. The route the Indians had taken must lie back fromt the sea-shore, but this fact still left a choice of paths, and it was very probable, know-   ? ha d Ireton. ing the vicinity of the friends of their captives and the probability of pursuit, they would travel all night by starlight instead of halting to camp in the gloom of the woods ; or, if the party should number more than two or three, they might lay an ambush for their pursuers,-a posthility which must make further proceedings a whvk of caution and delay. The father, with his musket clenched in his hands, waited the decision of his companions to give up the search or go on. His own purpose was distinctly to be se'en in the dogged determination written in every line of his face. Suddenly a shining object attracted one of the men's attention, and he hurried toward it. It proved to be one of the pails the children had taken with them on their unfortunate expedition ; this discovery settled the matter. They had not been killed and eaten by wild animals, a sup- position which had been broached, but were in the hafnds of the savages, as they could not have come willingly to this distant spot. "Now we will look for the trail," said Cum- mins, in a suppressed voice, and a dilligent search took- place over the green leaves and moss for a   192      Richard Ireton. foot- print or some sign that something had gone before. "Here it is," exclaimed Locke, in tri- umph, drawing his companions' attention to the print of a moccasin on the wet knoll. "Now if we only had a good scout to make out their num- bers. If there had been more than two or three, they would have attacked the garrison after see- ing the men go into the field." While the men were pursuing their way into the woods, the women of the garrison gathered round Mrs. Rowe, who, frantic with her distress, would not be comforted. She wrung her hands, she paced the floor, she reproached herself again and again for her folly in letting her children go to their own death, and, worn out with the vio- lence of her passion, she dropped at last on a set- tle and sobbed and moaned hysterically with bit- ter repetitions of her burden "that they would never come back." A painful silence settled upon the rest of the company; the negro who had been charged by his master to guard the women in the men's ab- sence, carefully shut the three strong bars over the oak door,. and after using persuasion to have the shutters of the lower windows closed and se- cured, took down a rusty old musket which   Richard Ireton.     193 hung in a corner of the kitchen and looked to its priming with a trembling touch. Lucy drew up a settle to the smoldering fire which Sambo had allowed to burn down in the confusion, and tried to still her mind to the cour- age needed by a settler's wife while her husband went forth to battle with the savages and per- haps to lay his bleeding corpse in defense of these strangers' children in some one of the green paths in the dusky wood. She thought of the little file of resolute men peering into the dark corners of the wood, of lurking savages in their hideous war paint surrounding the little company with wild yells, the crack of the sharp rifle, the flight of the keen tomahawk, and the struggle of courage. and skill against numbers who knew every-step of the ground and could X  count every tree in the treacherous swamp, ev- ery rock or bush that interposed in the green path. If a prisoner, what would be his fate? Would it be torture, to bring out the horrors of a linger- ing death while these devils would dance around his mangled- body to see what torments the white brave could endure? She had been kind to the poor children of the forest who came to her hum-   194      Richard Ireton. ble door, she had never sent them away hungry, and once she remembered she had thrown a blanket, at her husband's order, to an Indian to repose at night before the dying fire on her hearth. Deeds like these, these wretched creatures were said to remember even in their hot warfare, and she drew a little comfort in this belief,--but, ah these Indians might not be of the tribe she had fed and warmed; her head dropped again with the fresh thought. As she gazed in the fading coals, a procession started out before her; her senses were not closed in sleep, but a lethargy bound them; the mother's loud wailings grew indistinct, the wom- en's voices hushed and steps died away,- she saw a panorama opening, and with supernatural fear, held her breath to watch it. Out of the coals flitted a long line of dusky woods; plants and shrubs came out in review, then followed human figures, women bowed and still, like so many statues in stone, darker men with the short tuft of the Indian, his scanty robe, moccasin, and knife. A brighter coloring flew into the picture; the woods shone with the splendors of the red fire-light, glowing and glowing into a deeper splendor,- a cavalcade of mounted men swept   Richard Ireton.     195 into the scene; another and another; and she saw herself, or what seemed to be herself, in the shift- ing ashes with a wounded man's head upon her lap, the face turned from her, but the figure and outlines, oh, how true! "Mistress Leslie! mistress Leslie!" a rough hand shook her,--"how can you go to sleep when we are in such trouble, and your man may be killed? But you look like a ghost; I'm glad I waked you; I believe you was in a faint." "He is dead," said Lucy, with white lips. "I know he is dead." "Give her some water," said Mrs. Cummins. "Do n't take on so, young woman. Mrs. Rowe is bad enough - hear her groan. It's most day, and the men will soon be here, now." "They're coming," called, Sambo from his perch at a window,-" they or the Indians," and he closed the shutters with wonderful quick- ness.    C "It's the men," said Mrs. Cummins, running to unbar the door. All waited at Mrs. Locke's' suggestion till an answer had been given to prove the identity of the applicants for admission, whose faces and figures might well puzzle their wives in the dusk preceding day. Lucy, with   196      Richard Ireton. a sob of joy, flung herself upon her hus- band's shoulder, while the less demonstrative settlers' wives gathered to hear the bitter tidings of a fruitless pursuit which sent Mrs. Rowe again into hysterics, in whose paroxysms she was now supported by her no less agonized husband. "We struck the trail, but had to give it up," said Locke aside to his wife. "We lost it at the edge of a stream, but by that time we had got too far into the enemy's country to go on in safety. They're a good piece to Canada by, this time, for they traveled all night." Lucy clung to her husband's breast sobbing out her hysterical joy. "I believed you were *dead!" she said. "I saw you stretched lifeless in the coals." "Hush, my dear," said Ireton. "See how this poor woman suffers." "I can only think of myself and our baby," sobbed Lucy. "If you had been shot in the woods, as I saw in the coals, I am sure I should have died."   PART SECOND. CHAPTER L. V .{ E turn over a period of six years six years fruitful everywhere in changes, but especially in the colonies. The Indian wars were ended, or rather the spirits of the crushed and humbled savages broken for the time; tales of incursions and massacres on the borders and in the hearts of the settlements had long ceased to be the one excit- ing topic of the day, and everybody was now in- 'terested in the airrival of the new Governor and his lady with the great changes which the latter, a young and gay woman, had already introduced into the habits and customs of the Puritan so- ciety. Balls, and even masquerades, to the hor- ror of the grave elders who looked upon them as inventives of' the devil, and to the delight of the young whose innocent gayety had long been smothered under iron rules, grew fast into favor   198   '  Richard Ireton. and fashion, and in every society Madame F  's beauty and wit won her admirers and friends. A man, however elegant and talented, could never have changed so essentially the course of custom and habit; it was reserved for a woman of tact, dazzling personal gifts, and the prestige of exalted rank to accomplish the work in less than a year. The world which praised sand envied her, which knew her to be the source of office and honor to a host of eager aspirants, for her influence with her elderly husband was known to be almost unbounded, did not dream that this fortunate woman had her lonely hours of ennui and sadness, when the door of the bou- doir had closed upon her, that her dreams upon her pillow were haunted by the specter of a dead face upturned, white and cdld, on the bosom of a wild heath, or that the cherished and honored wife of their Governor had once figured in the details of that shocking criminal trial in England as the betrothed of the murdered William Lan- derdale. Men would have said God had forgot- ten her, the most guilty actor in that tragedy, to have recognized her now, at the hight of honor, with her identity lost in the name of the generous man who had taken her to his heart,   Richard Ireton.     199 but God's Ways are strange, with means and in- struments hidden from us, and not the smallest part of her punishment was the remembrance which haunted those lonely hours and came as an afterpiece to mix with those wretched dreams that the only man her fickle heart had ever given a sentiment worthy of the name of love was a wanderer on the earth, with the stamp of Cain upon his brow, shutting him out from all the loves of his past and even the communion of his kind! Landerdale's sister is still a guest of Mrs. Cur- ran,-a life - long guest it would seem,-the gossip over her marriage has subsided, but a new story has sprung up, which, improbable as it is, finds many believers, that the young people have only put by their wedding under the ban of Mrs. Curran's disapproval, who can not bear to have another, even though so happily fitted by nature and good fortune for the station, take her place at the head of her son's house. Philip Ireton has prospered in the receipt of a larger salary, and the full and hearty confidence of his employ- ers. His father has paid the debt of nature, leaving a blessing with his dying breath for this I dutiful son, his sisters are married, if not happily   20)0  "    t ichard Ireton. at least to the positions they were born to fill, and his lonely mother has accepted his invitation to cross the seas in her old age to make the home of her last years in the new land, where, from the painful events whieh have darkened the old, she is willing to find her grave. It is sad for her, at this time of her life, to make the great change, but it may be that her daughters' homes are grudgingly proffered, or, as mothers often will, her heart clings most to her absent son, stripped of home cares and comforts under other people's roofs, and that most of all a longing, lingering hope, dumb, but stronger for silence, lives in her bosom that she will here meet the prodigal for whom, like every true mother, she sends up her daily prayers in her closet, that God will let the bitter expiation of his lonely life atone for his great crime, and wets her pillow sometimes in the long, wakeful nightwith sorrowful and unreconciled tears. At the close of a summer's day, two gentlemen rode into the edge of a small settlement on their road to a ferry, which, from the wildness of the spot, and the similarity in the branching paths or tracks,-for the much couhted mail route was little more,- they had lost sight of. The clear-   Richard Ireton.      201 ing, before which they drew in their reins, pre- sented the appearance of thrift; a large slope of green corn spread its wide leaves in the hushed air which betokened the swift approach of a shower; a plot of vegetables promised well for the stock of the winter, a couple of cows grazed in a neighboring field, kept in their bounds by a strong pine fence. Two men were working bus- ily with their hoes in the soft soil at the back of the dwelling where a couple of young fruit trees had taken root. A dull peal of muttering thunder with a sharp flash of lightning, hurried the stran- gers to make known their errand, and simulta- neously one of the two men threw down his hoe and approached them. His face was heavily browned by constant exposure to the sun, his hands, which had just thrown aside the instru- ment of daily labor, hard and rough, but he had the air and bearing of a gentleman as he came up, the indescribable tone of refinement and re- pose which stamps the cultivated man alike in the wilderness and the city. "We shall be under the necessity of asking your hospitality, Sir," said the elder of the two, Mr. Curran, suddenly dismounting, while his friend, Mr. Wylie, hesitated to follow his exam- f   202      Richard Ireton. pie. "A heavy shower is close upon us and we have lost our way. We have been trying for the last ten minutes to make our road to the ferry." A pattering of drops on the green leaves stop- ped the scarcely courteous answer which Ireton's lips had parted to utter, and making the best of the unwelcome accident, he bade them lead in their horses, calling to his negro to take down the bars, and led the way before them to the house. Both noticed the signs of a woman's tastes in clinging vines and low plants which made a little Arcadian of a very poor cabin. Ireton ushered his guests into the sitting - room and went out in search of his wife, who came up from her strawherrying in the meadow, her cheeks crimsoned with rapid exercise, and her pail full of the scarlet fruit, holding her little daughter by the hand. "We have visitors," began Ireton; "two strangers, Lucy, who have lost their way and taken shelter from the storm." "Visitors " said Lucy, with a dismayed look. "Well, the rain will soon be over and they will go. If they have ridden far to-day they must be hungry. I will tell Mary to put what there is in the house before them."   CHAPTER II. COZY little. nest," said Mr. Curran to Mr. Wylie, stepping up to examine the books in the hanging case on the wall with curious attention; here were au- thors in French and a work or two in Latin as well as English. "This gentleman must have been a barrister at some part of his life, for here are three or four ponderous works on law. What a strange taste! he must be insane, or mis- erable, to bury himself out of everybody's sight in the woods." Mr. Wylie looked at the'bouquets of fresh flowers, the work basket,- a pretty Indian affair littered with a woman's devices of handiwork- the rude chairs, the pine table, the homespun carpet, and came out of his revery to see his companion, who had spoken to him unheeded, gazing out at the window with an air of intense observation which showed he had found some sight worthy of his attention. The tableau,-   204      Richard Ireton. or whatever it was,-had vanished when Mr. Wylie got to the window, and large drops of rain beat down on the odorous sweet briar, bringing out a richer cloud of perfume to enter the open windows, while flashes of lightning and peals of thunder proclaimed the storm was abroad in the wildest fury of the elements, and made Mr. Wylie congratulate himself on the accident which had given,them a shelter, for men abroad would have had a sorry time in crossing the fer- ry on the open boat. In a few minutes the door opened, and Lucy, attired in- her plain every-day dress with her heavy golden tresses drawn back and arranged in the becoming coiffure of the day, made her, appearance to give a courteous greeting to her guests, her husband following a step behind her. Mr. Wylie started; a sudden recollection crossed his mind as the vision of grace and beauty swept -before him. Mr. Curran, entirely undis- turbed, bowed with the ease and courtesy of a gentleman to the civilities of his hostess, made handsome apologies for his intrusion and his com- panion's, and expressed his regrets with- more warmth than  truth that the state of the weather would compel them to beg shelter until   Richard Ireton.      205 morning, [the storm, if it should subside before night, being sure to leave a dark sky in the ab- sence of a moon and they being strangers wholly unacquainted with the country. The hospitality to be met at the settlements was almost proverbial; few strangers under such circumstances as these would have thought of going farther for the night. Ireton was checked in his first thought to offer his negro as a pilot to put them in their way by this recollection, and soon the storm which rose higher and- higher, ini- creased by the moaning of the wind as the lightning grew less vivid, showed little pros- pect of subsiding early. Lucy left the room intent on hospitable caves -to see that Mary had kindled a fire in the kitch- en and after laying the cloth of fine damask which she took from the depths of one of her bureau drawers, she pressed Sambo into her service in hulling the crimson berries with which her nimble fingers could not make sufficient haste. Corn cakes, fish, and coffee, were upon the table when the strangers were invited out, with strawherries and cream for dessert, Lucy presiding, and Ireton helping his guests. Ireton had not recognized the Puritah magis-   206     Richard Ireton. trate whom he had seen on the occasion on which he expressed the thanks due him for his courtesy to his wife. Lucy had, but she was de- ceived by Mr. Curran's manner into believing the recognition not mutual, and was only too glad to escape his notice. Mr. Wylie's eyes wandered to her with a more marked observa- tion, but, of his frank open face, she had no fear, and insensibly his conversation fell to her share while Mr. Curran chatted with her husband. "Our Governer's lady is making a great change in the habits of our people," said Mr. Wylie, who believed this young woman, in her lonely life in the woods, must be as interested as others of her sex in the matters of gossip. "We have now assemblies and even a masked ball or two. The ministers discourse against them from the pulpit, but some say they are harmless." Lucy's blue eyes opened wide in surprise. (I have not heard of it," she said; " we live so lonely here. Are you fond of dancing, Mr. Wylie?" "With a good partner, Madame," said the gentleman, with a smile. "You have a delightful home, Mrs. Leslie,"   Richard Ireton.      207 said Mr. Curran, across the table. "I believe many ladies of my acquaintance would envy you the enjoyments of these sylvan solitudes; you have your games in the woods, your fish in the river, and the new soil yields bountiful crops to the tiller. We thought your clearing em- bowered in vines a little paradise when, hungry and tired, we first came upon it; you want only one thing to make it perfect,-congenial society." "I am happy," said Lucy, but her eyes drop- ped under the piercing glance which searched into them. "I have my dairy, my plants, and my little household realm. These fill my time, and with the society of my husband and child, I have no cause to complain." Mr. Curran remembered a previous occasion when he had been as discreetly answered by this sensible young woman and bit his lip with vexation. "She is much handsomer than she was six years ago," he thought under his repulse. "She has a finer bloom and the expression has come out to finish the picture." "You are right, Sir," said Ireton, taking part in the conversation and gently reproving his wife. "Mrs. Leslie must feel as well as myself  at times the loneliness of exile from the friends   208      Richard Ireton. of our own rank, but we must suit our situations to our fortunes, and in this lonesome spot we can at least-live an independent and comfortable life." "I must acknowledge my poverty," Ireton thought, his mind ever open to the fear of suspi- cion. "Other men as well born have been driv- en to as hard necessities in coming to these col- onies." Mr. Curran did justice to his second cup of the coffee which Mary in her haste had forgotten to settle; he praised the dessert, partook heartily of the corn cakes and fish, and left an agreeable impression with his hostess when he rose from the table, the gentlemen to be escorted back to the sitting - room by their host while Lucy stayed to ponder over her preparations for the night, which ended in giving up her own chamber to her guest and the improvising of a bed on the two settles in its stead, Sambo straightening him- self on the chairs in the sitting-r oom after un- successfully trying the soft corners of the carpet.   CHAPTER III. R   HAT a fate for a young and charming woman," said Mr. Wylie, as the two men undressed by the light of a candle. "It Y? is hard enough for a man to be buried in these solitudes, but he can find work to fill his hands, while a woman, left to the cares of the household, has the heaviest part of the burden." "She seems to bear it bravely," said Mr. Cur- ran, in an indifferent voice, as he retired to his pillow where, he was soon, to all appearances, lost in profound repose. 6"I really fear we have robbed our hostess of her chamber," said Mr'. Wylie, as his opening eyes in the morning fixed o01 a pretty toilet table in white draperies opposite the bed. He had been kept awake to midnight, listening to the dropping of the rain on the roof, and as a natu- ral consequence slept to be awakened by his com- panion's movements in thechamber, whom  he   210      Richard Ireton. saw-in full dress, even his short, curly locks brushed to a fine glossiness, "Why, it's late, Curran! why didn't you wake me? the sun has been up more than an hour." "Wait, my dear fellow," said Curran, settling himself on a chair at the head of the bed. "The birds were so crazy in these trees outside, I couldn't sleep; the sun comes up early here, and we've plenty of tinie to talk. I've been thinking of giving this man a chance to get into a different sort of life; it's a pity he should wear himself out here with his education and abilities,! working like the roughest settler on the fron- tiers. What do you think of giving him Low-\ rie's situation? The' salary is small, but it will give him an excellent beginning." "Lowrie's place?" repeated Mr. Wylie, in amazement. "We can't turn off an honest man without a reason." I "Oh, but he is going to do better," said Mr. Curran, coining a lie with quiet assurance. "I forgot to tell you, Wylie, he gave me his resig- nation just before we started; that part of it is settled, the question is as to the new man we i shall take in his place." "t We know nothing of Mr. Leslie," said Wy- \   Richard Ireton.     2" lie, growing cautious. "From the way he is living here in the woods, I judge he has no cred- it, no friends to recommend him." "I .will venture something on the man's face," persisted Mr. Curran. "I know I shall never repent a charitable deed." Mr. Wyhe was not so confident; the look of deep introspection on his host's countenance did not please him; it certainly lacked thatunny openness which wins all hearts to overflowing faith, but he was not in the humor to get up ob- jections and only listened with a grave sinile to his friend's earnestness. "It 's a piece of goodd luck which brouight us here," solioquized Mr. Curran, walking to the window. "Travelers who get lost in forests sel- dom meet with so pleasant an adventure; we shall get a capable and faithful accountant to fill the place of an honest man whose services we should otherwise miss, and these kind people who have given us shelter will be abundantly re- warded in the good luck we shall bring them." "Curran has a -good heart," said Wylie to himself, while hurrying in his toilet, " but," he added with dry humor, "it's odd I can not always make up my mind to believe in him."   212      Richard Ireton. It was not odd; Mr. Wylie, as Mr. Curran's partner, saw much of him and the high estima- tion in which the world held him was not always reflected in the bosoms of his intimate friends, es- pecially in this case. Mr. Wyhe had good reason to know Mr. Curran's conscience could not al- ,ways keep him from making a good bargain at the expense of those qualities for which he stood high in public estimation., Breakfast was waiting when the travelers de- scended; a fresh supply of the past night's fare of corn cakes, fish, and coffee graced the table at which Lucy presided& in her homespun gown, and Mr. Curran thought even -the coarse fabric became her; it could not hide the aristocratic contour of her neck and shoulders, or rob her complexion of its dazzling bloom. ( What a pity all this loveliness should be wasted in this desert spot," he thought to him- self while sipping his coffee, an odious compound of rye and corn which only good manners had led him to pronounce excellent. "She is wasted on this dolt who has n't the heart to appreciate her. If Miss Ferrars had half of her charms and piquant airs, I could act the part of an ar- dent lover to distraction."   ... SRichard Ireton.         213 "I have a little business with you, Mr. Les- lie," said Curran, as the gentlemen quitted the table and Wylie stepped out to get his horse, followed by Sambo, who, at a word from his master, offered to bring around Mr. Curran's. Ireton, pale and disturbed, led his visitor into the sitting-room closing the door upon them. The irruption of these strangers into this solitude, with the gossip they brought from the world, had freshened his regrets, the past night had proved more wakeful to him than to any one under his roof, and his nerves were in a poor state to bear the strain of trembling sus- pense which followed in the two or three sec- onds before Mr. Curran could settle himself in a seat, and, with his eyes raised to the rows of -books opposite, begin to speak. "I have an offer to make you, Mr. Leslie," he commenced, observing the agitation of his host, and putting it aside in his mind for considera- tion at another time. "Mr. Wylie and myself are in want of a suitable man to take a situation we have vacant in our counting-room. The salary is not large, but it may be increased in time; the person who held it up to this date en- tered upon it when its duties were lighter than   214      Richard Ireton. they are now. Providence seems to have guided our steps here by the accident of last night, pur- posely to offer you the situation, if you will ac- cept it." Ireton gasped for an instant in strong surprise. This was an instance of the hard, cold world he believed in; an instance of true brotherly kind- ness, such as he had never expected to meet. But this man undoubtedly judged him from his conversation and address, and did not understand his solitary and independent situation. "I thank you, Sir," Ireton began, coming out of his long pause. "( Want of fortune-poverty, I should say, induced me to emigrate to these col- oniqs. I have here no relatives or friends. Under these circumstances, I can not give you the secur- ity you would ask." "There is something behind this reserve," Mr. Curran said to himself. Aloud, he added, "I am satisfied with your appearance, Mr. Les- lie, in the little I have seen of you ; so is my partner, Mr. Wylie. We want a capable, faith- ful man to fill the place of a capable, faithful man, and such we are satisfied you will prove. The salary is small, but-" "It-is not that," said Ireton; his face was for r              , 1 &   Richard Ireton.      215 a moment averted, his attitude expressed a troubled irresolution. To mingle again in the business and pleasures of the world, would be to turn his back upon this hell of torturing in- activity, in which he was held a prey to misera- ble thoughts and despondencies,-iis pulses glowed with the possibility; he was not calm enough to weigh evenly the dangers of such a step by the side of the delightful picture. "If you wish to consider my offer, Mr. Leslie," said Curran, " or to consult Mrs. Leslie " "I will accept it, Sir," said his host, "in the spirit in which it is offered. You have made me - your debtor, Mr. Curran, by this unusual meth- od of proceeding, but you shall never have cause to repent your confidence." Mr. Curran shook hands with his host, after the exchange of a few more words, and passed into the kitchen, where Lucy waited his adieus in happy ignorance of the plot to break up her peaceful home.  She saw   her visitors mount and ridF off, with Sambo to pilot them on the first few steps of their way, and turned to look at her husband whose clouded face and rest- less manners, had thrown a gloom over her spir- its. She had learned, long ago, that kind looks,   216      Richard Ireton. or tender inquiries were disagreeable to him on these occasions. The visit of these strangers w' th their talk of the world from which he was banished, had re -awakened his repinings; she was thankful it had been the only intrusion upon their privacy in these long seven years, and was not likely to occur again, and with this philosophy she was about to turn to her house- hold task, when,Ireton took her hand. "Lucy," he began, in a cheerful voice, "what would be the greatest piece of good fortune you would ask, supposing I had the honor to fulfill your wish?" "I should want a little time for reflection," Lucy answered, smiling. "A piece of singular good fortune has come to us," said Ireton. "We shall soon quit this place to which I unwillingly brought you, to en- dure the hardships and anxiety you have so bravely borne, to return to the world where we shall find society and happiness." The color left Lucy's face, she gazed into her husband's eyes for an instant with a troubled look. One of those painful presentiments which, on more than one occasion, had told her of the future, now banished tie rose from her cheek,   izehard Ireton.     217 but the shock was soon over, and she paused to consider her husband's news. "It is sudden," she said. "I thought it would give you a joyful sur- prise," replied her husband. "We have lived here so long," she answered, "I thought we should make our graves in this quiet spot." "I shall start for Boston in a day or two," re. sumed Ireton; "the situation Mr. Curran has offered me in his counting- room does not include a large salary, but it will be sufficient for our moderate wants. I shall leave you and little Marie here, to remain in Sambo's care, until ] have found a house and made preparations for your coming." Lucy knew the state of her husband's purse, like all good wives, who guard their expendi- tures accordingly, and wondered where the means to meet this large outlay would come from. "I can sell this house and clearing," observed Ireton, "or put them under mortgage to some person in the town. The proceeds will furnish the means for ourjourney, and the furniture of our new home. My salary will be paid quarterly   218     Richard Ireton. and we shall soon be in easy circumstances." "I am glad you will find use for your ed. ucation and talents," said Lucy, " and it will be better for Marie; it would be sad to have her grow up to womanhood in these woods," but she sighed as she moved away, and Ireton wondered that the news which he thought would bring her so much joy should leave her pale and sad.   CHAPTER IV. WOMAN'S heart is closely knit to the spot *here six peaceful years of her life have been spent, even if that spot be a cabin shut in by forest trees, where the foot of the Indian and the shriek of the panther comes oftener to her door than the tread of civ- ilized man. Still more is her love bound to this spot of home if difficulties and dangers have been bravely met and encountered under its roof, if her child's first feeble cry has echoed within its walls, and if her own hands have changed its outer aspect to an abode of bloom and beauty, when the bright summer days are abroad in the earth. Lucy had planted the plats of sweet briar which her maid had brought from the woods, the low anemone, the brilliant columbine, and a host of starry blossoms early peeping out from her garden bed, rejoicing to make. acquaintance with the spring sun; her slip of white rose- bush, whose parent stock had   220      Richard Ireton. come over the seas, blossomed and bloomed un- der her sitting-room windows; the jessamine sent its sprays, heavy with starry flowers, over the low, sloping eaves, and wild grape vines la- den with rich promises of purple fruit hung their graceful festoons over the door and twined and wound even among the limbs and trunks of the sharp leaved pines, which stood together in a solitary clump at the west. There was the straw- berry meadow on the river banks, where the blue violets opened their eyes as soon as the snow had disappeared in the river mists, the brook where the golden cowslips grew, and a little spot shut in by giant oaks where the moss was always green and where her imagination had painted the graves of her little family when these quiet days should be over and one by one they should be laid away to that sleep from which, so unlike the fevered dram a of our morning, there is no waking to this bitter world. She had turned her face gladly from the cold New England metropolis, where insult and a re- luctant hospitality had met her; she had no de- sire to renew her knowledge of this stern and hypocritical people; she had -an instictive con- viction that this knowledge, through ways she   Richard Ireton.      221 could not now see, must only bring her sorrow. Perhaps, too,. she felt her right to have been consulted on this important step, for though she gave implicit love and faith to her kind but cold husband, the time had come when the first years of her marriedlife with their golden dreams were over, and stern reality brought her day by day its sober lessons. It took Ireton three days to make his prepa- rations. The house, and clearing were put un- der mortgage, with instructions placed in the hands of a person who negotiated this kind of business for their sale, the little stock bargained for at the same time, his packing attended, to by his wife, and with many charges to $amubo, who seemed properly impressed with the trust confided in him, Ireton took an affectionate leave of his wife and child, and mounting his coal black horse rode out of his little paradise, which his own hands had aided to convert from a wild spot to a garden, and cantered on in the path lead- ing to the ferry; Lucy knew many lonely days must pass be- fore she should see him again, but there was much to be done, and wiping the tears from her eyes she left her chamber to see that Mary was   222      Richard Ireton. settled to her churning and to begin her prepa- rations for the journey she was soon to take over the path her husband was now treading to the city, where another link" was to be joined in the chain of his evil fortunes. She had much to do, but the sixth day found everything completed, the chest which held her wardrobe, where it had lain securely packed in the "sweet-scented darkness " since the long ago noon of its arrival, ready for transportation, with the household stuffs, including pieces of her own handiwork at her wheel; the furniture cleansed and ready for a new owner; the bed curtains and hangings taken down to put up in the new dwelling, and she then vent to pay her last visits to her few favorite haunts and to bid good - bye to Mrs. Locke, whose neighborly kind nesses on many occasions deserved this courtesy. Lucy took her little Marie by the hand and walked slowly through the green paths shad- owed with the tall oaks, in the direction of-the house. The still air of the early September brooded over the brooks lined with a few of the earliest Autumn flowers, a bird sang a lonely song from the green depths afar off, a group of   Rlichard Ireton.   '   223 lively squirrels, and by and by a partridge mak- ing a whirring noise as it started up to light again not far from them, woke these leafy soli- tudes. The little one chatted and loitered, filling her hands with the red berries of the par- tridge vine which spread a feast for the birds and other tenants of the woods; her mother called to her and presently they emerged in sight of a house which, bare of vines or flowers, presented the naked appearance of a settler's cabin with crops of corn glistening in the September sun. Mrs. Locke ran in from her garden, where she stood in her short gown and cap, with her lap full of pumpkins, to receive her unexpected visitors. I have come to bid you good - bye," said Lucy, taking her seat on the settle while Marie found a low chair by her mother's side where she- sat cautiously, examining the wide kitchen which was ornamented with huge piles of cheese and bunches of dried herbs, while the pine table and sanded- floor were as white as strong hands could make them. "We are going away." "My man told me so," said Mrs. Locke, " but I couldn't believe it! Weil, it's an unlucky   224      -Richard Ireton. house, Mistress Leslie, but I 'm sorry you 're go ing to leave it. Just as we are beginning to get acquainted too." "It is my husband's choice," said Lucy. "He is going into business in Boston, where we land- ed before we came here. I expect him back al- most any day, and we may start to - morrow." "Then it's settled?" said Mrs. Locke. "Well, I'm sorry you're going. Shall you never come back?" "No," said Lucy. "Mr. Leslie will sell the house if he can find a purchaser." "I wish I had something to give you for a parting present," said Mrs. Locke; " now if you could carry a couple of these cheeses; my man thinks they're the best he ever tasted, and I know they beat Mrs. Rowe's." "We shall journey on horseback," said Lucy. ("Our chests are packed full to go by water. I shall always remember you, Mrs. Locke ; I thank you for your many little kindnesses. Please say the same to your husband for Mr. Leslie and myself." "I hope I shall see you again," Mrs. Locke said as her visitor rose to go. "I never felt you would stay long in that unlucky house; Mr. Bowen could n't before you, but I 'm sorry   Richard Ireton.      225 you 're going. I'm always sorry to lose a pleas- ant neighbor; one, as I was saying to my man, who minds her own business and don't keep meddling with other people's." Mrs. Locke was thinking of Mrs. Rowe, whose grief over her children's loss had borne fruit only for the time and whose tongue was now as active and determined as ever, to the trouble of the little settlement, which, since those days of the garrison house, had been en- larged by three or four additional cabins and clearings. Mrs. Locke went with her visitor into the edge of the woods and parted' with her with many good wishes, and then Lucy walked home- ward in the still September afternoon, stopping by the way to let Marie gather her lap full of the red berries, while the bird's song rose again from the depths of the wood where nothing re- mained to tell of the little tragedy enacted there six years before when two wearied children, rest- ing on the mossy bank, felt their hearts sink with fright at the sight of hideous savages in whose pitiless hands they were hurried away, in sight of the chimney smoke of home, into a long dismal captivity.   CHAPTER V. T^^I^HREE weeks el/psed before Ireton made his appearance, ad Lucy's heart began Gl^ to sicken with fears of she knew not s- what in the interval. When he came at last, riding up the path in the brightness of a September day, the change in his face and air struck upon his wife as she ran to meet him. Had he spoken truly when he said that happi- ness-awaited them in the world to which they were on the eve of returning? -- the cloud was gone from his brow and a smile sat upon his lips. His greeting was kind; he kissed his wife's cheek, told her that everything had. prospered with him in his absence, and took the liftle Marie, who was clapping her hands with joy, in his arms, and carried her to the house.  "I have a house ready for you," he said, " and we will start to-morrow. I suppose you have all in readiness."  "I have been in readiness for a fortnight, spid Lucy,   Richard Ireton.      '227 "I could not return earlier," said Ireton. "The house-hunting made delay.  I found much difficulty in getting rooms suitable to our means." Lucy was satisfied with the explanation. She led the way into the kitchen where a fire had been kindled, bnd was soon in the midst of her preparations to refresh her tired traveler, while Ireton, reclining on one of the high- backed set- tles, told her more fully of what had taken place in his absence, and Sambo, his ebony face shining, came in to be greeted and praised. One incident which figured in the secret chamber of his thoughts,-that secret chamber never unlocked to his wife, but out of which she caught stolen glimpses when his lips were un- sealed in the abandon of sleep,-Ireton kept back; a circumstance which seemed to him of more importance than anything which could be named beside it in his three weeks' adventures. He had seen upon the street the Governor's equipage, with its scarlet outriders, and had rec- ognized,- himself unrecognized,- the really beautiful woman who was everywhere spoken of for her great influence with her husband and the changes she had wrought by her wit and beauty.   228      Richard Ireton. He would not have been human if his heart had hot stood still as the vision swept before him, and wondered to himself if that proud head had ever bent to listen to his wooing, and those bril- liant eyes softened to the language of love in the old days when they had looked into his. It was like a dream to meet her here in the provinces; to know the hour would come when he should stand again in her presence, to be annihilated perhaps by a glance from her haughty eyes ;-- or, oh, dangerous thought! - to see in her speaking 1face, as no one else of the throng which would be around them could see, theg shock of a great surprise and the reciprocation of a trembling joy. "You have seen the Governor's lady?"Lucy asked, as they sat' side by side, when the supper was over and the last of the day's labors trusted to Mary's active hands, in the sweet confidence of reunited partners, a confidence full and entire on Lucy's side, but less full and complete on his in whose dark mind many thoughts came and went which might have called-, a sob of anguish and a cry of reproach from the innocent girl at his side. "I have not seen her," said Ireton, " though   Richard Ireton.     229 I have passed the Governor's equipage in the streets. I She is said to possess great influence with her husband, and the gossip runs that her drawing-rooms are full of applicants for his pat- ronage who look to accomplish their ends by paying court to his lady." "I hope she has the power to make a change in the tone of the puritan society," said Lucy. "Dearly as I value your interests, and often as I have grieved to see your best days wasted in this spot, I fear to go back to the place where I spent those miserable weeks. I could be happier here where we have lived so long and where our little one was born." 4 This is a woman's talk," answered her hus- band, smiling. "You would have grieved, as I should have done,. if I had thrown by this oppor- tunity. I am astonished at my good fortune; I do not know what could have recommended a man in my suspicious situation here in the woods to the confidence of Mr. Curran." "I dislike' Mr. Curran," said Lucy; " he is not a pure - hearted man; I can read this in his eyes; I hope we shall have little to do with him." Ireton had a poor opinion of his wife's judg- ment; to him she was a creature to be praised   2.30      Richard Ireton. and petted, scarcely a counselor. He did not understand the quick instincts which, in persons ,of her temperament, seize upon facts by intui- tion; besides, another face stood beside her,- whose dark beauty rivaled hers in his partial eyes. He had thought he loved this faithful young wife; he had believed so that morning when he bent over what he felt to be her dying pillow and conscience struck heavily at his heart with the recollection of too many neglected opportuni- ties of kindness, but it needed only a sight of the woman reclining on the cushions, of the Governor's carriage to flash light into every cor- ner of his mind and to show him what he was. ' I shall be glad when our journey is over and we are settled' in the new home," said Lucy, following out her train of thought in peaceful ignorance of the cause of her husband's sudden change of color and averted eyes. 1"The part- ing from the place will be painful and the going back, but when they are over we shall no doubt be happier for the change. Even if I could be content to see your talents run to waste, there is our little Marie whose womanhood ought not to open in this solitude. She will need all our love and protecting care, and before I am called   BRichard Ireton.    231- away, I hope I may see her happy in a home- of her own." "Happier than her mother," she might have added, for to- night the shadow of approaching events was over her; she began to see that in this home to which their thoughts and words went out her husband would grow less and less to her, when no longer dependent upon her for his only companionship as in the seven years which had sown his broad brow with furrows and scat- tered glistening threads of silver here and, there in his dark locks.   CHAPTER VI. N a fair October morning, the little party began their journey, Ireton riding at his wife's side, the negro with Mary mounted behind him as in the old order of the procession. Their road wound over the ferry, through the streets of the little town, where a few fine residences showed in the gray mist, a mist which slept along the banks of the river and enveloped its shores on both sides. Soon the town with its sleeping inhabitants was left behind, and their route lay through deep woods already gay with the autumn splendors which shone in the scarlet shrubs under foot, the yellow maples, the fast reddening oaks, and the ranks of purple flowers which stood out fair and pale by the still brooks and the path of their horses' feet. Now and then they came up- on a little clearing, with its plot of corn and lowing cattle in an open field, and sometimes they skirted the edge of a town, but they stop- ped only once on the long way at a farm- house   Richard Irtorn.      288 for a frugal repast of bread and milk and to buy grain for their horses before the last stage of the journey was made, and silent and weary they rode into the town, and threading its crooked streets dismounted in the pale starlight, after twice or thrice seeking direction, at the thresh- old of their own door. Ireton had made what preparations he could for his wife, but the lack of a woman's hand was visible in the disordered furniture as in the plac- ing of the articles of kitchen use which were heaped promiscuously in the closet with two or three missing out of the most important on the list Lucy had given him at parting. Sambo busied himself in kindling a fire, while Mary un- packed some dishes for the table, which she found must be subjected to a process of soap and water before they could be used, and. Ireton went out to order a few stores while Lucy exerted herself to bring order out of their sur- roundings. When the chests should arrive with their household stuffs, theyl would be comfotra- ble; until then, they had to improvise their ac- commodations, and Lucy expressed her thank- fulness that they could expect no visitors to spy out their condition. n-     .   234-      Richard Ireton. Her satisfaction proved premature, for the next morning Mr. Curran made his appearance to inquire for the health of his late hostess after the fatigues of her journey, and to offer his assist- ance and his servants, to set them up in house- keeping until their goods and chattels should ar- rive. "My, mother unites with me in offering her services to you," he said to Mrs. Ireton, "and begs thatjyou will allow us to be of some assistance." Lucy glanced around the disordered room into which Mr. Curran had been shown and her cheeks glowed at what she felt to be the down- right incivility of this early visit. She looked over to the spot where he stood, his hat in his hand. "You are very polite, Sir," she said. "We expect our chests to arrive by a vessel this evening and shall not be under any necessity to accept your kind offers." "You were short with Mr. Curran, Lucy," said Ireton when their visitor had gone. "We are under great obligations to him." ' I can never forget so disagreeable a fact," replied Lucy. "She is no coi ntry dame to lbe met with easy familiarity'  Mr. Curran mused, on his way to   Richard Ireton.     235 his counting - house. "She has been well born and is well bred. She is not fond of me, but I can wait." Mr. Curran had need to draw upon his large stock of vanity ; his home affairs were not pros- pering; his suit to Miss Ferrars was as far from a happy result as it had4een six years before. He was not in love with her, as the reader knows, but her fortune was a dazzling tempta- tion to this man who had but one passion co- existent with his love of money, and a faint glimmer of encouragement kept hope in his heart, for if her smiles were withheld from him, they were bestowed on no other man. Philip Ireton came sometimes to the house, but not as a friend of Mr. Curran's, and so, by a very natural accident, the two men had not yet met. Madame Curran liked the young man; he won more and more upon her kindly regard. She did not see in him a rival to her son. His pretensions were .too small for him to aspire to the hand of a -rich heiress, and Miss Ferrars on all occasions treated him with a reserve which was in contrast with the familiarity existing between her and her host, who was her cavalier on all public occasions, and who contrived to   236      ' Richard Ireton. secure more of her attentions in society than any other gentleman. Madame- Curran believed her son would marry Miss Ferrars; she believed so from the fullness of a mother's love, but to the reasons why the match lingered so long to its completion she was as blind as the gossips, who said Mr. Curran delayed to claim his bride until his aged mother's eyes should be closed in death and her opposition to a rival put awa) in the grave. Philip Ireton had found the reward of his filial love in a home of his own, filled with those daily comforts which fall so naturally from a lov- ing and beloved hand. It was a modest home, suited to his means. It held no costly furniture such as graced Madame Curran's parlor; one servant performed all the drudgery under her mis- ress' eyes, but the venerable lady, with her steel gray hair put away under her widow's cap, who went over her daily tour of inspection to see that everything was in place and that prudence and skill presided in the department of the kitchen, wore a cheerful light in her lately tear dimmed eyes and found the peace she had lost, in making in her new cares the happiness of her child. She went little abroad; she seldom crossed' her   Rtichard Ireton.     237 threshold except in the procession which wound its way solemnly to church on -these still au- tumnlal Sabbaths, but, hidden in the depths of her heart, was a secret hope which might some time be realized of folding again in her embrace the prodigal who had hidden himself from them all, but who, if living, must be working out his expiation somewhere in this new land. With the increase of his means and the lessening of his burdens, the beautiful dream which had once looked as unreal as a dream to Philip grew more distinct, and he thought with a trembling hope that it might yet find its realization. Miss Fer- rars, as young and lovely as when he had first seen her, was Miss Ferrars still; what might ,not be his chances with her when he should plead so strong and true a passion which had lived through years of struggling and despair perhaps to find fruition in the sunshine of his brighter fortunes?   CHAPTER VII. { MOTHER'S first impulse is to look with coldness on the creature of her son's choice; this young woman, if amia. - ble and deserving, is in some sense her rival; she rules over the heart which once owned no higher power than hers, and she keeps her throne through all the coming years. Madame Ireton could not have desired her son to remain single for her sake. He had bound himself to celibacy through the years when his parents and sisters were dependent, but she had not thought of this probability of his immediate marriage; she knew his solitary life, bound to his desk in a counting-room, left little opportunity for the enjoyment of ladies' society. It came upon her very suddenly as they sat together at the close of the long October evening,- this talk of love and marriage,- and Philip looked up to see the cloud upon his mother's brow and the tremulous quiver of her lip. He had pictured Anna Fer- rars, with a lover's fondness, ministering to his   Richard Ireton. C   239 aged parent in her declining years, bringing a new cheerfulness to the house- with her fair young face, and brightening life to them both with her graces and, goodness; he could not foresee the drift of a woman's thoughts and how very unwelcome would be the plan over which he had spent the reveries of three delightful days. "You have spoken to her on this subject?" Madame Ireton asked, keeping her eyes on the floor. "I have, not," Philip replied. "In my situa- tion in the past, it would have been dishonora- ble for me to have committed myself. " I   A feverish glow came into Madame, Ireton's sallow cheek. If this girl was not her son's fiance, it was possible she had some other lover. "She is, I believe, an orphan," resumed Philip, "and without any property. Our ac- quaintance began on the vessel on which I em- barked to come over. We met there for the first time on that awful night of fire and ship- wreck when we all looked for instant death." Madame Ireton shuddered; she could- not hear that disaster alluded to even at this dis- tant day without trembling. She removed thq   240      Richard Ireton. hand which shaded her eyes and looked kindly at her son. Any mother might have been proud of his manly beauty, stamped as it was with the nobleness of the soul rather than the charm of regularity of feature and coloring. She thought of his sacrifices to his family, the generosity with which he had given up one thing after another, the self- denial which had sealed his lips to let the woman of his love, if fate should so order, be wooed and won by another man. "I will wish you success, Philip," she said in a firm voice. "No man deserved a better or fonder wife than you. You say this young lady is an orphan, without property. Are you shre she loves you? May she not marry you to escape from dependence and poverty and give you the opportunity to repent your generosity?" Philip smiled ; there were no doubts in the lov- ing eyes which answered back his mother's look. *'-To me she has always been as cold as snow," he said. "She is not a woman to be lightly won. It is the depth of my - love for her which gives me confidence; I feel that I must win her by it; that she is destined to be mine." "I hope your prophecy will prove true," said his mother.   Richard Ireton.     241 She had a new trouble to carry to her pillow the picture of this bright- eyed, fair- haired girl, for so she painted her, who was to come into her little realm to be its mistress, perhaps to cast cold glances on the unloved mother- in - law who would be no longer needed in her son's house. Again in the same room where his brother's wife had waited her errand to Mr. Carran, Philip Ireton waited with trembling eagerness the beloved presence from which he would/never again turn away fearing his eyes would disclose what his lips withheld. He had not very long to wait. The rustle of a stiff brocade was audi- ble in the hall and Miss Eerrars appeared with a hightened color in her cheeks, but no other mark of embarrassment in her grave and court- eous reception. Philip hesitated to begin, his tongue refused its office, his heart beat with a distinctness which he thought must be almost audible to the lady before him. "I ought to have requested this interview with Madame Curran," he began. "I fear you will consider what I am about to say as the greatest liberty - when I tell you that I have long and deeply loved you - and - "    242      Richard Ireton. - "Mr. Ireton," said Anna, now very pale, "pardon me for interrupting you. I wish it had been in my power to spare us both this pain. ful occasion. I shall never marry; I can only express my esteem and my thanks for the honor you wish to do me." She rose; she had spoken in a low clear voice, but this pretense of calmness was denied by the whiteness of her face and the tremulous agita- tion which pervaded her figure. "You refuse me," said Philip, as she rose to leave him,---the shock of her answer had re- stored his self-possession. "You will hear me before you go. I have but a few words to say, I 'will not detain you long." He took her hand and led her back to her seat. "I have only this claim upon you," he said, "I love you deeply and have loved you almost from the hour we first met. I could not ask you to share my poverty, because I was poor and a mother and sister were dependent upon me. The time has at last come when my situation is changed. Though not rich, I am no longer a poor man and can offer a humble but plentiful home to yopr acceptance. My mother waits to welcome you as her daughter. It is in your   Rtichard Ireton.    243 power to make my lot infinitely blessed beyond that of other men!"- he paused-- at the mention of his mother a long, startled respiration betrayed the agitated listener whose strange sit- uation in hearing herself asked to accept the mother of Richard Ireton as her own can scarcely be painted. He looked down into the girlish face before him; he read no answering blush to his eager ap- peal, but the horror of a great shock was upon the pale lips and silent features. Some men would have shrunk from such a sight; they would have said, "This woman's heart has some dark secret," but Philip bent forward to take in his the lifeless hands which were quickly with- drawn from his clasp. "I can not marry you," said Anna, speaking with tremulous haste- "this is painful! It is inexpressibly painful! Take my respect - my good wishes - but I can not be your wife." She rose and glided away, leaving him stand- ing, gazing with a fixed air of bewilderment at ,the door through which she had disappeared. "C The servants did not tell me you were here, Mr.- Ireton," said Madame Curran, coming in to find a gentleman standing in a brown study by   244      Richard Ireton. the mantel. "I hope you have not waited long?" "( Excuse me, Madame, I find I have forgot- ten an important piece of business," said Philip, as little inclined as any man for an hour of idle chatter so close upon the stunning pain of a re- jection, and drawing on his gloves with a color- less face he moved to the door, leaving Madame Curran in her turn extremely surprised at his abrupt departure. *           s i6   CHAPTER VIII. X9, HE Governor's lady gave a ball to which cards of invitation were freely distrib- uted. These invitations were issued a week before the entertainment took place and the event to come was everywhere the subject of conversation. Ministers prayed in their closets against the Jezebel who was bring- ing,in foreign customs to corrupt the community and turn away the hearts of the young from fol- lowing religious things; elders sighed at their well filled boards over the dark days which were coming upon the church of the Lord, and prayed in their lengthened grace that he would not visit them with the fate of Sodom and Gomorrah but the gay and thoughtless and even some of the church members of mature years, with those who sought office from the new Governor, wel- comed the introduction of another winter's fes- tivities, and ladies' lamented over the short time given them to prepare, in the scarcity of ladies'   246      Richard Ireton. tailors. On one of these winter mornings the worshipful Master Curran took his way in the direction of the Governor's house, where he was an occasional visitor. The morning was clear and bright, a sapphire sky shone over- head, the sun sent down cheery beams on the winding streets of the growing town as on the bare forests on its borders, stretching out of sight over a trackless expanse of snow. The same mild power brought oult a million of gems in the curiously stuccoed front of the Governor's house as Mr. Curran sauntered up to the entrance ajnd struck the heavy hammer, which brought a ser- vant in his blue suit to the door, and made his inquiry for Madame. The man said her lady- ship was in, and the visitor passed into the hall, which extended through the depth of the house e and was provided with an embrasure window furnished with a deep and cushioned seat. Mr. Curran whiled away his waiting by an examina- tion of one of the emblazoned tomes which lay on the curiously carved oaken table for this pur- pose, while the servant's footsteps died away in the distance from which presently emerged a rustle of brocade with the presence of a lady of stately appearance who looked, that morning, as   Richard Ireton.     247 some handsome picture by Copely might could it step to- day from its frame and find itself invest- ed with life and animation. She was tall but of perfect proportions; her glossy black hair drawn back from her temples was arranged on a cushion and lightly powdered, her brocade silk was supported by a hoop of modern amplitude, she wore a vandyke, with the tight sleeves which had just come in fashion, and her white hands glistened with two or three costly rings. Mas- ter Curran rose and took a step forward, bowing, with his hat on which waved a long plume held in his hand. "I beg your pardon, Madame, for intruding at this early hour," he began with due deference to the slight frown upon the lady's face who had perhaps been called away from an interesting conference with her tailor or an important tete- a-tete with her husband. "I have come to beg a favor which I flatter myself your kind heart will readily grant. I have a friend who has not had the good fortune to obtain a presenta- tion to your ladyship; he is of good family, highly connected, a man of address and tal- ents,- he has been so far -unfortunate in busi- ness, like some other emigrants to these colonies.   248   -  Richard Ireton. My errand is to beg you will do me the favor to forward to him and his lady a card for your re- ception." Madame F   's mouth relaxed into a smile at the close of this speech as she graciously replied that any friend of Mr. Curran's must be wel-b. come, and wrote down the name he gave her on her tablets to be handed to her master of cere- monies. She did not know the favor-Mr. Curran was conferring upon her as she wrote down the false name, or the ulterior purposes of the gen- : tleman in his benevolent mission.' He- wished to bring Mistress Ireton, whose beauty and grace, coupled with her coldness, drove him al- most to distraction, into the society she was so well fitted to adorn, where he could have more frequent and favorable opportunities of seeing - her than in her own home, where, if he twice or thrice contrived opportunities of meeting her alone, he was always foiled by the bright-eyed, attentive little child who came into the parlor holding by her-mother's hand, when Lucy con- descended after a long half-hour of waiting to make her appearance. Mr. Curran turned his steps into the crooked street on which was his counting-house, well   -Richard Ireton.-     249 pleased with the results of his morning's mission, and bade his employee a cordial good morning, as Ireton stepped into the merchant's private room with the news that a long expected vessel, a part of whose rich freight was due by consign- metnt to the firm of Curran & Wylie, was safe in the harbor. Ireton noticed that iMr. Curran was in a happy mood as he returned to his desk, and he paused in threading up the long lines of figures on his ledger to ponder, with a frown knitting his brow, over the unequal gifts of for- tune!which had left this man nothing to desire and bound himself to a miserable drudgery which, in actual experience, was not the change he had ardently looked to. He knew of his. brother's proximity ; he had- had a distinct view ,of Philip on the street a day or two before, but the recognition had not been mutual owing to the hour at which it took place, being in the first part of the evening which was clouded, and the light streaming through the narrow panes of a house lit up Philip's face and outlines while his brother's remained in deep shadow. Ireton had no disposition to address him; a meeting on the public thoroughfare might not have proved wise or safe, and he felt a sense of   250       Richard Ireton. shame in the recollection of the debt which he was not prepared to liquidate. He noticed in the brief glimpse that Philip's air was grave and sad, he had grown older since their parting, and Ireton understood the necessities which had ex- iled him from their native land and the burden he had borne in the interval. It was not a pleas- ant reflection to Ireton that he had ruined his family as well as his own fortunes, but he cursed his fate, rather than himself, that all this had come about, and the gloom of the dark years at the settlement gathered upon his face as he reached the threshold of his home to meet his' wife's affectionate greetfig and the caresses of his child. Most men, however wretched and worthless at heart, would have felt the bright- ening influences of the tea- table with its care- fully prepared meal, where the tastes of the master of the little household were first thought of, the smiling wife, her beauty set off by the neat but plain dress suited to her circumstances, the rosy child at an age to answer to all her par- ents' demands upon her attention, the skillful servants trained to understand all the, offices re- quired of them in the household of which they had grown to be a part, and last but not least,   Richard Ireton.      251 on a cold winter night in the simple summing up of comforts, the ruddy fire which crackled it the chimney and sent a glow  over the oaken settles and the homespun carpet. Per- haps none of this was lost upon Ireton; we know that a bad man who is blessed with the sweetening and bettering influences of a home is better than the same man when these sur- roundings are torn from him and he is left to the counsels of his own will, and many a- sullen and self-tormenting being is held from despair by apparently unprized ministries. A sudden ray of light broke upon Ireton as his wife put into his hands the note sealed with the Governor's device which showed him the chief magistrate's lady honored him with her remembrance. In the shock of the joyful sur- prise the color left his face, and Lucy looking on in her happy ignorance could put but this inter- pretation on his emotion, that the unexpected event had filled his mind with hopes for the future which might not be realized. With a woman's wit she had quickly arrived at the solution of the riddle and knew they were indebted to Mr. Cur- ran for this great honor, but this was a secret she had no desire to impart to her husband. She   252      Richard Ireton. had been troubled with fears and forebodings when they quitted their home at the settlement where, if they had no society but each other's, they had not known the burden of dependence, and the short interval had proved the correct- ness of her instincts as she found herself in a po- sition where she could not ask her husband's protection from the insulting admiration of the man who came to her house as an honored vis- itor, her husband's benefactor, who held him by , the golderf chain of obligations. "We will go," Ireton said, a flush of grati- fied feeling replacing his paleness as he folded the note and bent his head in close contempla- tion of the blazonry of the seal. I have nothing to wear," returned his wife ; "the tailors in the town are all engaged. Our invitation has come so late, I think we shall be compelled to slight it." ' By no means," said Ireton. "This ball may prove of the highest importance; it may in- troduce me to the notice of the Governor and his friends. I wish my purse was better filled just at present -but-" Lucy, like a good wife, came to his assistance; if her husband was decided upon being present,   Richard Ireton.      253 she could improvise her costume out of the wardrobe lying in state in the ample chest. The only difficulty lay in the matter of fashions which, with her sex, are always made over once in half a dozen years; -there was time to attend to this, though probably with much search and trouble. Ireton spent an unusually silent evening; he was thankful over his wife's reticence which spared him the embarrassment of sharing her curiosity in the mystery of the honor done them, and Lucy, lost in reflections over Mr. Curran's new move from which she- was determined he should reap no benefits, wondered at her hus- band's blindness in not seeing the insulting truth.   CHAPTER IX. 'U   CY went to work on her outfit for the ball with the interest natural to her sex on such occasions. The rich bro- cade gowns were brought to light from long repose, and various possibilities and expedi- ents discussed with the man of skill (for women were not considered competent to fit fashions in those days,) whom she was fortunate enough to find willing to serve her after a long search. A trimming of point lace, yeilow with age, was pro- duced fihom her store of treasures. If Miss Chalmers could have looked in on the young mat- ion kneeling on the floor of her chamber with her brocades, laces and ribbons spread before her, she would have recalled her regrets of a few years before, that these beautiful things were to be put out of everybody's sight to molder and mildew, seeing they could not have come out on a more dazzling occasion. Irethn, pre-occupied as he was in his own   Richard Ireton.     255 matters when the evening arrived, experienced a gleam of pride in his wife's beauty, which had the charm of, novelty to him when arranged in the splendor of full dress. Few persons, even in the metropolis of New England, had at this date the luxury of a car- riage of their own. The distance to the Gov- ernor's house was not very great from any part of the small town, and a portion of the guests incurred no risk of singularity in threading the way on foot. The Governor's house was brilliantly illumi- nated, the large parlors were thrown open to the stream of guests, and servants in blue liver- ies waited at the doors to announce the new comers as, in couples, or one by one, theypassed into the glittering atmosphere of jewels, bro- cades, laces and feathers, to be greeted a little from the threshold by the presiding genius of the festival, the beautiful young wife of the Governor, whose blooming complexion, and graceful figure presented a marked contrast to the wrinkled and stern-looking gentleman on her right, over whom her influence was said to be very great. Ireton and his wife stood at the threshold, the   256-      Richard Ireton. servant in waiting pronounced their names, and Arabella turned to greet them with the stereo- typed smile upon her lips, and the gracious bend of her head, which changed to a pause ass her eyes met Ireton's, who, bowing respectfully, drew his wife past, and mingled in the stream which circulated in the room beyond, giving place to the new comers behind him. Two persons saw the discomposure of the Governor's lady, and noticed its reflection in the changing color and drooping eyes of the young matron on whom her look had not durin the in- stant fallen. One of these was Mr. Curran, who, from his post: of observation not far from his hostess, curiously watched the arrivals of the guests; the other was Lady Pentheive, a hand- some blonde. Ireton and Lucy passed into the crowd circu- lating through -the rooms. The guests were nearly all arrived. The niusic from an unseen orchestra struck up a lively peal, while the room beyond was rapidly cleared for the dancers. Mr. Curran made his way to his friends, who found themselves strangers in the gay assembly, and solicited Lucy's hand for the forming quad- rille, an honor which her husband, by a look, de-   Richard Ireton.     257' sired her to accept. This course would leave him to dispose of himself as he wished. Lucy was led away into the circle of dancers and was soon an object of attention to the lookers -on, who were attracted by her beauty and the grace and elegance of her movements. "Who is Mr. Curran's partner,- that hand- some lady with the pearls?" some one asked Lady Pentheive. "Her name is Leslie, " this lady replied, " and that is all I or any one here can tell you." "She is one of the finest women in this assem- blage of beauty," resumed the gentleman. "Her complexion is dazzling and her movements are full of grace." Lady Pentheive threw a look-at the fair stran- ger which seemed to say she would have with- ered the one and thrown a numbing spell over the other if her power could have equaled her spite, but she answered in a courteous voice, bending her swan-like neck, and forcing a smile to her crimson lips, "There are many beautiful women here to-night as you- will see, Colonel Flares, when you have made a circuit of the rooms." The gentleman thought to himself it was   '258      Richard Ireton. strange that one beautiful woman could not hear another praised without envy, and moved a lit- tle nearer, where he could get a better view. Lady Pentheive watched Mr. Curran.  Mr Curran from his near vicinity, where he had led his partner to a seat, and stood the envied recip- ient of her attentions, became sensible of her ladyship's notice, and presently vacated his post to Mr. Wylie who came up to claim his acquaint- ance with his hostess of the woods in this fash- ionable assembly. Lady Pentheive turned a cold look on Mr. Curran as he approached her, and declined his invitation to make one of the next set as his partner, she would bestow her hand upon him in the next, she more graciously added, a prom- ise which gave no great pleasure to Mr. Curran, though, on second thought, he believed a little salutary neglect would not be thrown away on Mistress Leslie, for of course Wylie would dance with her but once, and knowing no lady present shel would be left to amuse herself as in so awk- ward a situation she best could, unless her hus- band should search her out and keep her compa- ny.   'Richard Ireton.     259 Lady Pentheive had a few questions to put, and she kept Mr. Curran by her chair, and softened her coquetry as she saw he was- disposed to re- sent it. "You are acquainted with the belle of the evening, Master Curran," she began, indicating by a look the spot where Lucy stood in the cir- cle of dancers. "Colonel Flares declares she is the finest woman present to-night. Pray, who is she?" Mr. Curran did not immediately answer; he caught the sparkle of malice in the lady's blue eye and hesitated to shape his reply as nearly in ac- cordance with facts as he could. "She is the wife of a gentleman of good birth," he replied, "who has not met with a fair share of fortune in casting his lot here with us." "She must be of good birth," remarked Lady Pentheive, "or she would not be here. They are new arrivals, I suppose. I saw a list of emi- grants a fortnight ago, but I do not remember the names." Lady Pentheive had got all the information which Mr. Curran was disposed to bestow, but she was not a person to be easily dismissed. .   260-      Richard Ireton. "They are old friends of yours, Mr. Curran?T" she suggested, with a thrust at what she suspect- ed to be the truth. "Hardly," said the gentleman, with a slight smile. "My dear Lady Pentheive, you flatter me by showing so much interest in these people. If you will allow me to introduce you to Madame Leslie, I am sure she will be happy to make your acquaintance." Mr. Curran thought he risked nothing in offering this introduction; perhaps Lady Pen- theive read his thoughts as she accepted his offer, and while the gentleman turns over in his mind for a way of escape from what, for reasons known to himself, is an awkward dilemma, we will see how Ireton is improving the opportunity which Mr. Curran's attentions to his wife give him of following his own pleasures. He had seen in the momentary view of Ara- bella's face that he was-not indebted to her for the invitation which had brought them together and a mortal fear had seized him that some en- emy had discovered his secret and contrived this occasion to put him in the way of discovery and peril. It needed the brilliant assembly and the - e   Richard Ireton.      261 inspiring strains of the music to give back his courage when he reflected that an enemy would scarcely have taken the trouble to confer upon him such an honor, and leaving the happy acci- dent which had introduced himn here for future consideration, he fixed his thoughts upon the means of approaching the object of his un- changed regards, and winning from her eyes or voice a recognition which to him should have a value almost to be reckoned with life or death. Chance did not favor him until near the close of the evening, when he approached a knot of gentlemen, in whose center Madame H  was conspicuous, smiling to the remarks of one of the group, while her eyes wandered to the dancers and rested upon one couple who made a center of attraction to others besides herself. Ireton's heart beat quickly as he approached this regal presence. Arabella turned, and a smile broke over the lovely face, as the beautiful eyes rested upon him, and with easy self-posses- sion the Governor's lady introduced him to two or three of the gentlemen by her, adding, "I am indebted to Mr. Curran for your acquaintance, Mr. Leslie. He has spoken of you in terms   262      Richard Ireton. which have made his Excellency, the Governor, as well as myself, desirous to know more of you." A perceptible stir took place among the listen- ers, each scanned the new aspirant to place and fortune with nterest, and some envied the for- tunate man who drew this flattering speech from beautiful lips. To Ireton, these few words transformed the brilliant rooms to a vista of par- adise; he forgot -his wife,- he forgot everything he should have struggled to remember, and stood by Arabella's chair until the closing dance began and she gave her hand to Colonel Flares to lead her upon the floor. Then he turned to encoun- ter the eyes of his wife who was regarding him with a look in which was neither anger nor re- proach, but a settled despair, which woke him from his short dream to a bitter sense of his true surroundings.   CHAPTER X. HE still night, canopied with a few straggling stars and breathing a frosty air which made the stragglers on the streets wrap themselves more closely from its advances, contrasted to the hot rooms ablaze with the effulgence of numerous wax candles. Lucy held her husband's arm as they stood on the slippery sidewalk, but her face was averted from him. A secret voice told her that her domestic happiness, such as it had been, was over; she could not distrust the evidence of her own eyes; she knew that doubt and suspicion were hence- forth to stalk in the darkened rooms of her little sanctuary of home. When he reached his own threshold Ireton remarkedtQ his wife that the gray bank in the west with the sharp east winds betokened a fall of snow, and Lucy an- swered in her usual voice as she passed into the house. A smoldering fire was alive in the ^           . /       .   264      Richard Ireton. kitchen where Mary had sat to wait their return, and Ireton placed himself before it in a thought- ful attitude, Lucy went up to her chamber, and, divesting herself of her wrappings, went to the cot where -her child was peacefully sleeping with a smile upon her red lips and a look of innocent repose on the white brow. The mother shaded her candle and gazed long and tenderly upon the slumbering outlines, drawing courage and strength into her discouraged heart as she gazed, and then, extinguishing her light, she dropped on her knees by the cot with a voiceless prayer for direction in the difficult way before her. She did not say as in that prayer in the wilderness, whose granted efficacy she was never to know, "Guard and protect him, for he is my all!" but she asked for wisdom and patience to bear all that the unseen Father to whom she knelt saw was before her, andhe who hears and answers all the reason- able petitions of his creatures heard and answer- ed this before she had risen fi'om her knees. Substituting a wrapper for her rustling ball dress and wrapping herself in her cloak, she seated herself in one of the heavy oaken chairs to await the coming dawn which should pale the   Ri7ard- Ireton.     265 stars and call her little household to the labors of another day. The illumination of the Governor's house had died out, and not a light shone in the slumbering town except in the few spots where love or char- ity kept watch by sick beds. Just at this hour Madame Ireton awoke from   a dream full of foreboding to her absent son, which came often to her pillow, and thanked God as her mind grew clearer that it was only a dream! It was better so; better the silent house a few streets off should be hidden in the friendy pall of darkness from the aged eyes; the house whose lonely chambers held the young matron sorrow- ing over her blighted hopes, and the man who sought no strength to wrestle with temptation, but believed he could find happiness in a bower of phantom roses and cheat the specter who walked at his side. A stranger would not have known a dividing wall had risen between the husband and wife in the last few hours had one been present at the mnorning's breakfast table. Ireton, flushed with is new hopes, for his ambition as well as his secret passion had found food for encouragement, was more cheerful then usual, Lucy had schooled *            I     F   266      Richard Ireton. herself in her midnight prayer to the struggle for resignation, which taught her a frowning brow and silent lips would only estrange farther from her the heart which had never been given fully into her keeping; and the innocent child, who Knew nothing of her parents' sins or sorrows, was the sweet tie between these two. Mary looked on her mistress with increased respect since she had seen her arrayed in her long - locked - up finery for the great occasion of the Governor's ball, and it would be difficult to describe the satisfaction Sambo experienced in the elevation his master and mistress had at- tained, sharing as he did in their prosperity and prospects of better fortunes. An ordinary man, of whose antecedents and family nothing was known, might have sunk back into the obscurity from which a friendly hand had drawn him for one fortunate occasion, but Ireton's fine person and courtly manners bore the stamp of breeding, and there was the impor tant fact of Madame's avowal of interest in his fortunes which had fallen upon listening ears and was well repeated. Two weeks from this date, Ireton and Lucy were present at an entertainment given by the   Richard Ireton.     267 Governor's nephew, and Lucy was introduced to the acquaintance of Lady Pentheive who it will be remembered had accepted this favor from Mr Curran but had been quietly slighted by him in its fulfillment. Lucy danced with Mr Wylie, and her partner after leading her to a seat lingered by her chair as the next set was forming when a movement of Lady Pentheive's fan beckoned him and he hurried up to learn her ladyship's wishes. "In- troduce me to Madame Leslie," she whispered. "I wish to make her acquaintance." Mr Wylie, sure that his friend would be delighted to make her acquaintance in her position as a stranger to all the women present, gave her his arm and led her up to Lucy. Mr. Wyhe was right in thinking that Lucy felt painfully her situation as a stranger in this concourse of people, but the pure young wife and mother felt rather than saw an indescribable something in the blue eyes and smiling red lips of the beautiful blonde which suddenly shut that lady out of her own atmosphere and inspired her with a sentiment very like suspicion. Lady Pentheive took possession of the seat Mr.   268      Richard Ireton. Wylie presented, the two ladies found them- selves nearly alone filling their place in a crowd of scattered spectators looking on at the dancers who, with blooming faces and powdered locks, defiled before them in the slow and stately move- ments of the quadrille. "You are a stranger in these provinces, Madame?" asked Lady Pentheive, turning upon her companion a glance of curiosity from her blue eyes. "I have been but a short time resident in this province," replied Lucy. "Then most of the goodly people present are strangers to you and you will enjoy an introduc- tion to their faults and merits. I need not point out to you the lady- of our excellent Governor with whom It think Master Curran told me you have some acquaintance, but you may like to know something of her partner, Colonel Forsyth, who people say has amassed a great fortune in trade. He is an excellent gentleman, godly, and well spoken of everywhere, and won great renown in the war with the Pequots. -My dear Madame, you who are fresh from our peaceful mother -land have no idea of what we in New England have   Richard Ireton.      269 suffered in the warfare of these barbarous sav- ages. It is a great mercy our whole town was not burned down and destroyed." Lucy shuddered, the recollection of numerous waking nights and terror-stricken days-un- guessed by the lady at her side came to her vividly in the pause of the music. "That handsome brunette in the violet silk, with those diamonds, is Colonel Forsyth's old- est daughter," resumed her entertainer. "Her younger sister is Master Curran's partner; she is a poor dancer though a very pretty girl. The gossips say Master Curran is smitten with her, but this is only gossip, for he has been engaged for half a dozen years to a young lady who has taken up her residence at his house. She is an orphan and an heiress, a great favorite with Madam  Curran, and deeply in love with the young gentleman as she never appears in public without him." "Poor girl!" sighed Lucy. Lady Pentheive looked at her over her fan. "I was thinking of her lonely situation,"5 Lucy apologized. ' It is a lonely state to be an orphan." "Everybody envies her," said Lady Pentheive.   -270      Richard Ireton. "She is young and rich. But everybody won ders why the marriage is so long delayed." Lucy would scarcely have thought Mr Curran could have proved as constant a lover even where his interests were concerned; her eyes wandered to the couples on the floor where Miss Flares's cheeks were brightening under his looks and compliments. Lady Pentheive answered her thoughts. "Mr. Curran's lady love is rigid in her religious no- tions," she said. "She came over here to have full room for her religious belief and thinks it a great sin to mix in our diversions. Mr Curran, as a man of position, regards it his duty to please those having authority for the time, and his lady, love has to accept his excuses."'  Lucy pitied the desolate young girl who trusted her all to this bad man, won by his graces of manner and the assumed virtues which had found their way to her favor. "Madame Leslie, my husband, Sir David Pen- theive . - said her companion calling back her attention as a young and rather handsome man sauntereqd up to them and leaned with easy famil- iarity on the back of his wife's chair. The couple were singularly unlike, the gentleman wore a   Richard Ireton.     271 scowling look which harmonized little with the constant smile that sat on his lady's lips, and Lucy saw at a glance what all their friends knew, that they lived together in a state of most inhar- monious discord. Sir David had- married his wife for her beauty and hated her for her ill- tem- per; Lady Pentheive retaliated upon his neglect in public by a series of flirtations which the cen- sorious world suspected were not always harm- less, but she had the entree of good society where she was much admired and courted though women of a certain stamp kept rather apart from her brilliant ladyship. "Lucy," said a voice at Mrs. Ireton's, shoul- der, and Lucy turned to see with a glow of pleasure her husband who hIad approached her unobserved. He gave her his arm with a bow to her companion and drew her away to the refresh- ment room, toward which a general movement was taking place. The dining-room was lit with innumerable wax candles whose clear light exhibited a brilliant display of plate and cut glass with a profusion of tropical fruits and expensive dishes suited to the entertainment. There was but one thing lack- ing - flowers to grace the board, a luxury which   272      Ric-hard Ireton. had not yet been brought into successful training in the frozen New England climate, but this was forgotten in the flow of the crimson and purple wines which abundantly graced the tables. On emerging into the hall, a way of passage less crowded than the more direct entrance to the dancing- rooms, they came upon the Governor's lady, who graciously paused to permit Ireton to introduce his wife, a ceremony which (Lucy underwent with a cold and listless manner. Arabella presented her new friends to the Governor, who was with her, and the trio re-appeared in the ball-room together, where Arabella crowned her favors by bestowing her hand upon Ireton in the dance which was in the act of commencing. Lucy found a seat in the embrasure of a window whose sweeping crimson curtains partially sheltered her from observation, but she had--ot been long in her nook before Mr Curran joined her and placed himself with easy familiarity 'by her side. His quick eye, used to woman's emo- tions, had penetrated Lucy's sentiments toward her rival and he understood that the notice which most young wives would have esteemed flattering and rejoiced in from one who had the power to   Richard IAeion.      273 bestow the favors of fortune was freighted with unspeakable bitterness to Lucy. "I hope I may be so fortunate as to find you disengaged for the next dance, Madame?" he began. "I shall not dance," said Lucy. "Ah! you are wearied early; to most of us the festivities of the evening have only just begun." Lucy fixed her eyes upon the dancers. She was glad to turn them anywhere from the bold, undisguised admiration of the man beside her. "She is cooler than ever," pondered the dis- comforted Mr. Curran. "Lady Pentheive has outgeneraled me." 4"Madame F   dances like a sylph," he said aloud, following Lucy's eyes. "She is the best dancer upon the floor. But I know a lady present at whose side her charms are paled to every eye." "She is a regally beautiful woman," said Lucy, avoiding the look which pointed the personal compliment, though her cheeks crimsoned with shame and anger. "But I beg, Mr. Curran, that you will not deprive the company of the pleasure of your society for my sake. -I came here to this   274      Richard Ireton. retired spot for a little rest from the buzz of conversation." Mr. Curran stared; a lady's rudeness was a novel event in his experience. He bit his lip with a sharpness of pressure which nearly brought the blood to the surface, and rose. "I will not intrude upon you, Madame," he replied with frigid politeness, and left Lucy to doubt the wis- dom of giving an open affront which might so easily be punished in her husband's dependent situation. She might have spared herself this anxiety. Mr. Curran had gone too far in his undertaking to easily accept defeat, and he found an increased satisfaction in pursuing his purpose from the thought of the sweetness of revenge on the coldness and scorn which it was now his interest to receive with meek submission. n              .     ,  .   CHAPTER XI. THE simple event of an invitation to the ball given by the Governor's lady could not, as we said, have raised Ireton into a scale of society from which his hum- ble condition as an employ6 in a counting- house would, under ordinary circumstances, have shut him out. But if Mr. Curran over-calcu- lated upon the results of his friendly service, he made no calculation for a fact which was beyond his cognizance, that his proteg6 through this event would be speedily advanced above his patronage and leave him only the claim of past obligations, which most men hdld very lightly. But if this defeat came to crush a part of his plans, a new element gave them a powerful aid. It was the jealousy of the young wife, founded upon some prior circumstances of which he was still in ignorance, a jealousy so intense and bitter, that he saw it poisoned 11 her happiness and filled her bosom at moments with a trembling   276      Richard Ireton. despair. His evil heart whispered to him that most women would be easily won under such circumstances, that any woman with pride and passion in her temperament would be sure to fall a prey to the first man who should approach her with sympathy and win her confidence. He did not trouble himself with her husband's secret, whose existence he had suspected from the be" ginning, when he found him in his isolated re- treat in the woods. If he had been banished to it by the terrors of a crime, this woman, who probably shared in its knowledge, might be powerful enough to protect him. He would try patience and application first to gain his ends, and if he failed, fear was the contemptible motive which should be used only at the last. He had gained one step in gaining the opportu- nities he coveted and sought. The notice of the Governor and his lady had won for Ireton in turn an immediate and flattering notice; every public assembly,- and the puritan city was grow- ing gay this winter after the copy of London fashions,-- was graced with the presence of this gentleman and his wife; everybody desired to know them, and everybody began to believe that to pay court to them was one of the means to f   Richard Ireton. ^    277- preferment and honor. We have gone too far perhaps in saying that Lucy shared in this hom. age, it was accorded rather to her husband whose talents were recognized after their public announcement which we have seen made by the Governor's lady, but her beauty was of a kind to draw attention, and if a neglected wife, the neglect was lost sight of in the courtesies and civilities of other men,. Mr. Curran danced with her when he could get the opportunity; he kept by her chair when she took the part of a spectator, winning what he could of her attention; he was always in readiness to escort her to the refreshment room when her husband was not at hand to act as her cavalier, and he acted his new role of an unobtrusive and kind friend so inde- fatigably that a weaker woman would have suc- cumbed to his pretensions and committed the dangerous error of giving him her trust and con- fidence. She would have done so--for Lucy had no friend to whom she could go for sympa- thy and advice in these dark hours; she distrusted Lady Pentheive, who had gone to the point of honoring her with a morning call, glancing with curious attention in her short stay at the hum- bly furnished parlor and plain hall which con-   278      Richard Ireton. trasted with the sumptuous- imported London furnishing of her own dwelling, - and indeed a ball - room is one of the last places in the world in which to choose intimates. If Lucy had known Madame Ireton's proximity, she would have been but little comforted, for her aunt had not been fond of her, and she might have blamed /bucy for not undertaking those remonstrances with her husband which would have been words spilt upon the ground, for the strong-willed, passionate man knew well the treacherous na- ture of the ground upon which he was treading and the love and constancy which at every hour waited to welcome and bless his return. Accident made Mr. Curran a listener one even- ing to a short but interesting conversation which made a strong impression upon his memory and which he put by for future contingencies. It was on the occasion of some ball at which Ireton, Lucy, and the Governor and his lady were present. Madame F   had withdrawn to the alcove of a window for a few moments' rest after the fatigue of the dance, in which she had been engaged, and partly to get a few private- words with her partner away from the buzz of voices,and the notice which always followed her.   Richard Ireton.      279 Mr. Curran had drawn near the alcove, igno- rant that it was tenanted, and paused in a listen- ing attitude as he caught the sound of a well- k1lown voice behind the drooping crimson curtain. 6' You shall have my influence, my fullest influ- ence in your favor, Richard," the lady was saying. "If there is anything in my power to atone for what you have suffered and borne, you need not be told it shall not be withheld." "My best, my truest friend!" exclaimed the gentleman, in a rapture of thanks. Curran dared not stay to hear more, but stepped back; into the room where in a -few mo- ments the couple re - appeared. Arabella, flushed and smiling, approached her husband, while Ire- ton bent over his wife's chair as she watched the dancers, wearied meanwhile with lady Pen- thieve's unwelcome company, and asked her if she was wearied in so kind a voice that Lucy's heart beat with a sudden and tremulous joy which died out in the next instant as she looked into his haughty and elated face.   CHA PTER XII. WHILE Lucy mingled with a heavy heart in these  scenes of festivity, another, not less sad in her secluded lot, watched the gray winter days go by and pondered in the long evenings unlit by the blaze of the ball - room as uncheered by its soft strains over the mission which began to assume the air of a delusive dream after the long period of waiting. She had believed her- self to be the avenger of her brother's murder, the instrument by whose means his murderer was to be brought to the justice he had evaded ; she thought now she had deceived herself in the eagerness of her wishes that this might come to pass, and  that under this deception she had crossed the seas lured by a false voice to the land where his murderer was supposed to have taken refuge. Another conviction sent its icy chill over herspirits; she believed her interest in the accomplishment of her life purpose was   Richard Ireton.      281 growing less; a love which she shuddered to own to herself was drawing her away from it; a love which had already brought her unutterable an- guish and sorrow, and steeped with it was a deep pity for the innocent man whose life, like hers, had been wrecked by the great crime; a pity which made her fear that some day her heart would melt to his suit and she should com- mit before God and man the awful anomaly of becoming his wife. To escape this, she would rather a thousand times have died, and worse than this she would rather have accepted the lot of life-long wretchedness which must come in a marriage with Mr. Curran.  Her health de- clined under the constant struggle; the nights found her watching with feverish unrest from her pillow the stars which came and paled in the blue sky; employments in which she had found pleasure were taken up as a task. She sought loneliness to brood over the subject which shone in a paler and drearier light with her long rever- ies ; she shrank from loneliness with the misery of a morbid mind which loved any society better than this restless preying upon itself. Madame Curran saw the change in her young friend, and urged her to renew her neglected habits of exer-   282      Richard lreton. cise, while -she suggested from her stores of housewifery various potions to strengthen her physical state, and Anna took long morning rides with Mr. Curran as her cavalier, when the snow was not actually falling and the roads were free from the blocking masses which impeded travel. But the morning gallop in the sharp air brought only a transient bloom to Anna's cheek, and the bitter draughts which were submissively swallowed had no mission of healing. Madame Curran saw that her guest's disease was in her mind, and she could imagine but one cause which could disturb her even temperament; this was her son's conduct, which gave the old lady herself a great share of solicitude. To the pu- ritan mother, the balls and diversions of the day were a crying sin, which would bring down a host of evils on the favored community to whom God had so signally granted preservation from their outnumbering enemies, and earnest had been her remonstrances with her son for lending his influence to lead away the young and thoughtless in the path of ruin and destruc- tion. Mr. Curran had plead the necessity of pleasing those placed above him in authority, and the harmlessness of a little innocent   Richard Ireton.      283 pleasure for those whose hearts were naturally inclined in that direction. "I had no such inclinations in my own youth," said Madame Curran. "Music and dancing are devices of the devil, as our good ministers say, to lead away young people from solemn and weighty things." "You are one of a few, Madame," said her son, with well disguised flattery. "It has been your happy lot in life, to walk in the straight way almost without an effort, but most of us need helps, and reach out to pluck some of the flowers of pleasure at the side of our paths, to mix with the wholesome plants of duty." Madame Curran sighed. A sorrowful mar- riage experience stood in the background of her memory, the image of an unloving and faithless husband, whose faults she had hid in her own breast from the censures of the world, and ten- derly as she loved this son, she could not forget from whom he had drawn a part of his being, and how little she could hope to control this headstrong nature when it came to issue with hers. She had made what excuse she could to her son's supposed fiance for his conduct, but Anna seemed to attach no importance to the matter;   284 -     Ricard Ireton. now she saw she was wrong in this last as- sumption and that the young lady did feel deep- ly the slight put upon her company and wishes by the absence of her lover night after night from her side in scenes of gayety in which her strict views forbade her to mingle. Late one evening on his return from one of these assemblies, Mr. Curran entered his office where he had left some papers, which must be examined before the morning, and seated him- self at his table. The room opened off the long hall which ran through the house, and on which all the rooms on the ground floor opened. It was not large but of good hight, filled up in ac- cordance with the luxuiious tastes of its owner. The furniture had been brought -from London, the book -,cases were ebony inlaid with green morocco, the tables and chairs were of polished oak, curiously carved with oaken flowers, the carpet was of a rich pattern, and the curtains were of crimson brocade. Three pictures, one a landscape by Claude Lorraine, the other a "Madonna" by Guido, and a "Farnarina" by Raphael, hung against the walls, and bottles of claret and hock stood on the small table near the blazing fire which Mr. Curran had taken   Richard Ireton.     285 some pains to re-kindle at his entrance. He was sitting in a listless attitude, his thoughts not yet gathered up from the brilliant rooms he had left, when some one knocked softly at the door, and he started in some surprise, for the hour could not be far from morning, and the house must be wrapped in slumber. It was his mother who desired admission, and. her son, placing a chair for her, waited in anxiety and curiosity to discover the business which could have led her to take such unusual pains to secure a strictly private interview. His conscience was not quite clear; he thought of several little matters which might have come to light to disturb his mother's repose, but he waited in attentive silence while the fire crackled noisily on the hearth and no other sound broke the stillness of the room, "My son," said Madame Curran, in her low, clear tones, which had the force of a command, "it is my wish that you give up these night en- tertainments, and consummate your long delayed marriage with Mistress Ferrars." Mr. Cturran, from his post behind his mother's chair, stared in the mirror opposite, which his vanity had led him to make a part of the furni- ture of his office, but there was no vacant stare   286      Richard lreton. in the calm blue eyes reflected to his; his mother was not walking in the spell of a dream, and the stillness of the hour or some kindred spell forced the language of truth from his lips. t"My outgoings are of no moment to Mistress Ferrars, Mother, she will not be my wife. She has no thought of marriage with me." -' You understand so little of the nature of women," said his mother, "' that you have wholly failed to read the character of this young lady. Anna is one to be sought, not one to display her preferences without the asking. I know your conduct gives her great solicitude ; it is seriously impairing her health." Mr. Curran started, a glow of extreme sur- prise suffusing itself over his face. Could this be possible? His vanity eagerly accepted the fact that his mother, who was her daily companion, should know more of this young girl than him- self, who was her gallant in public, but whose business and pleasures left him little leisure for the quiet circle of his home. He was sure Miss Ferrars was not in love with him, he was too well read in the emotions of women to deceive himself on this point, but there were other mo- tives which sometimes affected the feminine   RicBhard Ireton.     287 mind as strongly as the masculine, though less ,often. Miss Ferrars might not be indifferent to the state and position she would assume as his wife; it was a distinction to which many of her sex had already aspired. A solitary footfall coming nearer and nearer broke the stillness of the icy street when it had died away in the distance, Mr. Curran spoke. "6 To win Mistress Ferrars's hand, would be my highest happiness, my dear Mother, and I do not question your superior knowledge of your sex. But a man does not love to put himself in the way of a refusal. I will set about to discover her sentiments, and if I am so happy as to suc- ceed in my suit, I shall owe it to your kindness in looking -after my interests." Madame Curran rose with a gratified smile and left her son to his papers and reflections. Her candle had disappeared up the staircase be- fore he had begun to call back his thoughts from this singular interview, and then, noticing the lateness of the hour by the French clock which ornamented the mantle, he gave up the attempt to apply the precious hours remaining to dawn, and stretched himself on the crimson couch in the recess of a window, to forget his ambitions   288      Raiohard Ireton. and hopes in a short but profound repose. The candle flickered over the scattered papers on the table, flung ghastly shades over the crimson curtains, and outlived the crackling fire, watch- ing it, as it burned away into a bed of red coals on the hearth, sputtering away at last in a gust of blue flame; but Mr. Curran slept on after the winter sunrise had begun to flood the room with its cheerful light, when he woke to the stir of the household, and invigorated by the short slumber, which satisfied his vigorous state of * health, proceeded to his chamber to make his toilet for appearance at breakfast. The morning was unusually fine, the air was icy cold, but this fact was not felt in the large dining-room through which a genial warmth was diffused, and Anna received with a languid consent her host's proposal for a morning's can- ter across the neck. Her costume, a closely fit- ting riding habit and a black beaver, turned up at the side, with its short, bending white plume, was soon donned; her horse was brought round, Mr. Curran assisted her to her seat, and mount- ing himself, they were soon threading the intri- cate streets before emerging on the even part of their route. They passed the low, dark count-   Richard Ireton.      289 ing-room, where Ireton bent -over his desk cheered by prospects/ of fortune and speedy re- lease from what he regarded as a state of serv- itude. They passed pedestrians, young and middle - aged men, and women of the lower class, stepping quickly in the sharp air, and houses with heavily- snowed roofs, and gardens, frosted with glistening icicles which hung pendant from the boughs and twigs of the orchards whose broad trunks appeared above the silver white snow. Mr. Curran had something to say, but he waited till the town was left behind, and when they came upon an open space where the sun had a broad field for exhibition in the untrodden snow, stretching on the sides of the path with only the diversity of the forest copse beyond, he drew in his reins and let his horse saunter slowly at the side of his fair companion, who had begun to think of the expediency of coming to a pause preparatory to suggesting -their return. ("Anna," began Mr. Curran, addressing her by her Christian name with a familiarity which made her pause and look steadily at him, "I have seen with much anxiety of late, that your health be- gins to feel the effects of our rough climate.   290     '  -Richard Ireton. Most of our young women lose the i excellent constitution they bring from home in the process of adoption to this new world,-but will you permit me to suggest to you, as a friend who tenderly feels for your interest and welfare, that the cause of this change lies mostly in yourself, in the seclusion in which you choose to live in- stead of partaking in those harmless and inno- cent amusements which most young ladies of' your rank and position now affect?" * "You may be right, Sir," said Anna. She was glad his penetration bad not discovered the mental character of the malady which preyed upon her. A'But I have no relish for such enjoyments, they are for the happy who have never known sorrow like mine." "If you admitted only the happy, the ball- - room would be empty," replied Mr. Curran. "We go there to forget ourselves in the society of others, and to find in dancing and music, the exhilarating influences our sober -life needs. You, my dear lady, live too much in yourself,- everybody praises your charities and goodness; but you were born to shine in society which you defraud of her rights, as well as wrong yourself, -by your seclusion."   Richard Ireton.       291 Anna made no reply; her attitude showed she had fallen into a reflective mood, and Mr. Cur- ran left his argument to its work as he contented himself with starting his horse into a fresh can- ter to keep pace with the quickened movements of his companion. They had now turned their faces homeward, and were quickly threading the narrow streets from which they had a little be- fore emerged. Suddenly, on turning a corner, Mr. Curran saw his companion's hand which held her bridle rein drop with an agitated ges- ture on her horse's neck, while a tremor con- vulsed her slight -figure, as a gentleman over whom they had nearly ridden in their haste, raised his hat with a slight recognition, and in the same moment disappeared into a large gray building with whose occupants, largely dealing merchants, Mr. Curran was on terms of famil- iar accommodation. The man's face was well known to him, though he saw it for the first time, the likeness was singular and striking, and he pondered what connection he could have with the young lady, who, so far as his knowl- edge went, never stirred abroad without his mother's company, or under his own escort, and who could make no acquaintance at the   292        Richard Ireton. Thursday lecture which was her only public place of resort outside of her unfailing attend- ance on the Sabbath. Mr. Curran assisted his charge to dismount at his door, called to a ser- vant to take away the horses, and betook himself to his place of business in a state of more curiosity and interest than the little incident seemed to warrant. ^   CHAPTER XIII. MR. CURRAN was a man quick to act and able to plan where his interests were concerned. It was not consistent with his judgment to lay immediate siege to a perhaps reluctant bride and by rash mqasures incur the rejection, which, when it is once passed, a woman is not always disposed to take back. His mother might be right, he was willing to believe it, but the assurance was contrary to all his past impressions, and he resolved to see what- he could glean from the lady's maid, who from her long service, might be supposed to be in her mistress' confidence, before he should come to a plain declaration. He had made good ground with Jeffrys, so good that we are compelled to say the simple young Quakeress had begun to think he was in love with her, and overgetting all her past dread and dislike which had a very good excuse in the terror which she had experi- enced in being led before him in his character of   294        Richard \reton magistrate, to build castles on the greatness which might come to her as his wife, for things as strange had happened, and this untitled though wealthy gentleman might commit a worse error in her opinion than to elect as his choice an hon- est girl who might at this day have been living in her own father's house with plenty around her but for the. religious convictions which she had felt bound to obey, and which were not now nearly as unpopular as they had been when she first embraced them. But poor Jeffrys' ambi- tious prospects came to an end when, on that day of Mr. Curran's ride and accidental glimpse of Philip Ireton, she was called into his office,---or library as the room-was mostly called,- and offered a seat preparatory to some questions Mr. Curran was desirous of putting to her. "They relate to your mistress, my dear," said the gentleman, interpreting the girl's flushed face and embarrassed air very nearly aright, and he took a couple of shining gold pieces from the table before him which Jeffrys refused with a good deal of anger. "( If you have any proper questions to put to me, Master Curran," said the discreet maid, guarded even in her disappointment, for though   Richard Ireton.      295 she believed and hoped to the contrary, things often turned out so strangely this man might yet become her lady's husband, '*I will answer them, but I will not do it for money, and noth- ing would tempt me to tell you my mistress' se- crets, supposing she had any." "You are right as to the last," said Mr. Cur- ran, quietly returning the money to his purse, "as to the first I only thought to offer you a little present, knowing and admiring as I always have since your introduction to this house your fidelity to your mistress. The questions I wish to put are entirely for her interest - with a little con- sideration for myself. I am pained to see that her health and spirits are not good, can you give me any light on the occasion for this change?" Jeffrys sat silent. She knew very well or thought she knew her mistress' depression of mood to which Mr. Curran so pointedly alluded began from the date of Philip Ireton's last visit; she had always entertained a,strong ad- miration for him as her mistress' deliverer on the burning vessel where both had stood in such deadly peril, and it was her desire that something might come about which should make so stragge a marriage possible,--the only event of this   296       Richard Ireton. kind being the proofs of Richard Ireton's inno- cence of the murder of which he still stood ac- cused in all men's minds, by the discovery of the actual murderer in his place. "6 You do not answer me," observed Mr. Cur- ran, keeping his eyes on the girl's downcast face. "You can at least inform me if your mistress has any intimates, any gentleman friend for in- stance who visits at this house and toward whom you may suppose her to be affected in a friendly manner?" "She has no friends, Sir, who are not known to your mother or yourself," said Jeffrys in a quiet voice. Mr. Curran ran over the two interpretations which might be given to this answer, and re- sumed the subject. "How does your lady em- ploy her time? Does she visit abroad?" "She  stays in the house," said Jeffrys. "Sometimes she goes out with Madame on char- itable errands, sometimes she amuses herself in one way and sometimes another, and often-she sits for hours doing nothing but brooding uncom- fortable thoughts, and then she sighs and says she is very unhappy." "She confines herself too much to her own   Richard Ireton.     297 society," said Mr. Curran, with a satisfied nod. "She needs to go abroad and partake of the innocent amusements which our good Governor's lady has made popular. You will do well to impress this upon your lady, Jeffrys, and bear in mind further that if you will favor my inter- ests, you will always find me a kind and gener- ous friend. Now you, may go, and on your way be so good as to send my mother here. I wish to speak with her." Poor Jeffrys rose and hurried out into the hall. Her vanity had put an egregious decep- tion upon her; it was the mistress, not the maid, the rich merchant was desirous to court; but many women in Jeffrys' place might have made precisely the same mistake and would not have felt half the mortification she experienced in the denouement.   CHAPTER XIV. MADAME    CURRAN   found her son busied with his papers when she an- swered the message transmitted to her by Jeffrys. The winter day had come to a close, it was the half hour of mixed twilight and dusk, and the open fire on the hearth shed a pleasant light over the satisfied face' and figure seated in the large oaken chair. 6 MyI dear Madame," said her son as he put aside his pen to place a chair for his mother, "I have a question to put to you which escaped my memory in the few minutes we were together last evening. Has Miss Fer- rars any friends, any intimates who visit her here at this house?" , Certainly not;" said Madame Curran in a tone of surprise. ( She is then unacquainted with any gentle- men?" * With one exception," replied his mother;   Richard Ireton.      299 "but Mr. Ireton has discontinued his occasional visits. He has not been here for more than a" year. A partial failure of memory is one of the misfortunes commonly attached to advanced age. Madame Curran might have put Philip Ireton's last visit to a much more recent date. "Ireton,"- repeated Mr. Curran with a sud- den recollection,- " why that is the name fo the man who was arrested on strong suspicions of Landerdale's murder!" "It is not an uncommon name," observed Madame Curran. "'Mr. Philip Ireton may be distantly related to Richard Ireton but this is hardly probable." Mr. Curran leaned against the mantel, his face was a suitable subject for a study in its wrapt thought. "The acquaintance began on the burning ves- sel, in the shipwreck which you remember," resumed his mother. "Mr.' Ireton was so for- tunate as to be of great service to Miss Ferrars on that occasion, though she has never seemed to remember her obligations to him very grate- fully." Mr. Curran quitted his position against the   300      Richard Ireton. mantel and turned abruptly to a different sub- ject. "I have talked with Anna," he began, -" on the subject of her health, and she agrees with me, as well as I can understand a lady's notions, that her seclusion has been too rigid. I am happy to believe she is preparing her mind to mix in those harmless amusements which you, my dear Mother, persist in frowning upon, but which are followed- by  every person of her rank and fortune." Madame Curran essayed to speak, but the words came to an abrupt pause upon her lips. Anna must dearly love her son to thus surrender all her habits of belief and lean upon his guid- ing. The stronger mind  had controlled the weaker; the woman who had lived so many ex- periences knew well the yielding character of her sex, but she had hoped her son would sub- mit to be led in the silken chains of love. Mr. Curran reseated himself at his table and toyed with the pen he had put down. "Your marriage is then assured," said his mother, speaking fromt mingled emotions of sad- ness and joy. "You have my  warm congratu- lations, and I will add in my nightly'petitions for your, welfare a prayer that you may prove a   Richard Ireton.      301 tender and loving husband to the orphan girl who will have no other friend when I am gone." Mr. Curran smiled; few things were farther from his thoughts than this care, but the duski- ness of the room hid the skeptical smile and there was nothing wanting in his dutiful reply: c' I trust you will be spared to us these many years."' Madame Curran went out thinking over the frequent lot of her sex to love rather than to be loved, and grieving that this fate should have fallen to her favorite, while not three streets off a grave-looking man threaded his way to his house, the home he had once believed Anna Fer- rars's presence would brighten, with his heart full of tender and regretful memories of her who, he knew, whatever might be her future, would be the last as she had been the first object of his choice. Mr. Curran had calculated well, as he would have seen if he could have penetrated under the placid exterior which met him at his supper- table, or have looked at a later hour into the chamber where, her white couch uDpressed, Mistress Ferrars kept lonely vigils of pain and doubt, haunted by a face wearing the ghastly   302      Richard Ireton. pallor of the' grave which seemed to look upon her with melancholy reproach in its dark eyes. She would have given her life for this beloved one; she would have laid her head in his place on that cold pillow of the rain-soaked moor where he had breathed out his last gasps alone, but she had a hard struggle to carry out what she believed would be his wishes could he have come back to aid her with his counsels. She thought of her lawyer's words when he advised her to make her entree in public, as William in. his last solemn testament had designed, and she acknowledged, while the tears bathed her pale face, that Mr. Curran was right and that it was her duty to follow the example of the world and seek forgetfulness where others found it. Her candle was guttering and dying in its socket, the finger of the French clock pointed at the hour of one as she lighted another, and prepared to seek her rest, while, in the library below, Mr. Culrran mused in self-congratulation over the promising appearance of his mixed plans, and in the chamber above Jeffrys waked and sorrowed over the cruel disappointment which had come upon her.   CHAPTER XV. WHEN Mr. Curran joined Anna at break- fast, he saw by some of those many signs which men versed in intercourse with women can interpret, that the struggle in her mind was ended, and that it had ended in submission to his opinions. He drew from it a favorable augery to his suit and his subdued voice and deferential manner whispered his hopes to the pale young girl who, whatever step she might hereafter take, was not yet fully prepared to become what she was generally be- lieved to be,- the engaged wife of Mr. Curran. It chanced that Anna's first ball opened un- der fortunate auspices, the entertainment being given at the house of the Governor, where a bril- liant assemblage was sure to gather. Lady Pen- theive, whose experiment of this kind was just over, was deeply chagrined by her scantily filled rooms and in no mood to forgive Mr. Curran,   304      Richard Ireton. her sometime admirer and once devoted friend, for the cruel slight he had put upon her in his non- appearance. The rarest viands had decked the board, the costhest. wines had circulated, but the choicest of the invited guests had- refused to come and Lady Pentheive was glad to hide her insulted head for a few days in close seclusion. But Madame H   's coming ball made a new topic for gossip. Mr. Curran wa-s gratified to find an invitation for his mother's guest coupled with his, and Madame Curran entered with sober interest into the important matter of her young friend's preparations in which no cost nor pain was spared to do credit to her wealth and beauty. Anna showed a languid interest in the great oc- casion, and when the eventful night had arrived, she stood before her mirror, which reflected back a stately-looking brunette, very fair and very cold, arrayed in rich colors and jewels. A'nna remembered that the diamonds which flashed upon her brow had a history,-- they had pressed her dear mother's forehead and adorned the tem- ples of more than one blooming girl who had seen her pride and beauty wither under the palsying touch of age, or had laid them away in the flush of her still early womanhood in a lamented grave.   i Richard Ireton.     305 It was a lesson on the transitoriness of life little needed by their owner of to - day! A servant knocked at the door to say Mr. Curran was waiting, and, taking her cloak and hood 'from the silent Jeffrys, she passed down the staircase into the hall where Mr. Curran stood. The drive was short, the streets were sprin- kled with people, the evening was cold but fine. When they alighted at the Governor's house, the illuminated rooms presented a brilliant ap- pearance. Most of the guests had arrived. Mr. Curran waited upon his companion from the robing room and their names were pronounced by the servant in blue livery. Everything was strange to Anna, the crowd of people in which she distinguished familiar faces, the blaze thrown by numerous wax tapers, and the music which, soft and sweet as it rose from invisible hands, had a discordant note to an ear used to the solemn harmony of many voices swaying in a psalm. When they had nearly made the round of the room, Mr. Curran surrendered his charge to an elderly lady whosd pretty, young daughter ap- peared in the same interesting character of a   306      Richard Ireton. debutante. The dance had already begun and Mr. Curran engaged the   young lady for the next set, a piece of good nature which secured the kindest services of her mamma,while Anna, who declined to dance, looked on with languid interest as sheo acknowledged to herself the charm which may exist in grace of motion. One couple drew her attention, as well as the eyes of others,- a very lovely young woman and a still fine- looking elderly man. The first was attired with much simplicity, her only orna- ments consisting of a set of pearls and the abun- dance of her own rich golden hair. Many an eye in the scattered groups of spectators turned from the contemplation of the dancers to her seat, partially sheltered from observation by the fat dowager lady and Mr. Curran's attitude as he bent familiarly over her chair. Mr Curran played propriety as long as it was possible for him to do so; his thoughts were in another part of the room from which his feet were held, but he resolved to indemnify himself for his self-denial before the evening should 'end. He led his partner on the floor, glided through the quadrille at her side,and after lead- ing her back to her mother crossed over to Lucy,   Richard Ireton.      307 who, for the first time in the evening, sat alone in a spot partially removed from observation. "I am fortunate," he said. "I see you are wea- ried with the dance and disposed to sit through the next set. -I have a friend I wish to present to you if you will allow me the favor?" r' Lucy glanced inquiringly at the pensive- look- ing stranger who had already been introduced to her notice as the Miss Ferrars of Lady Pen- theive's story, the fiance of the man tvho was bending toward her. A feeling of the deepest pity swelled in her bosom, she averted her eyes and glancing in the opposite direction saw her husband. At the same moment a confused mur- mer arose around her, some one said a lady had fainted, Mr. Curran moved in the direction in which the crowd seemed to set and as the press suddenly opened before him Lucy saw Miss Ferrars looking ghastly pale as she leaned upon the shoulder of a gentleman who had caught her as she was sinking to the floor.   CHAPTER XVI. FAINTING fit in a ball-room   is an extremely disagreeable circumstance to the actor, as well as to her sympathizing friends, who can not help wishing she had chosen a more fitting occasion. Mr. Curran had his insensible lady-love carried into the next room, where more air could be got, and where he was left alone with the elder dowager and his hostess, the latter, from some reason,  showing little disposition to approach the faint- ing girl, who had not wholly lost her senses, as her friends had at first supposed. She had been lifted to a couch and the cold air from an open window came in icy contact with her damp fore- head as Mr. Curran bent over her, negativing the advice which had just been given him to re- tire, and leave her to the ladies, who would loosen her dress and soon bring about her recov- ery. Anna unclosed her eyes with a convulsive shudder. Mr. Curran begged his assistant to   RiZchard Ireton.       309 get some wine from the refreshment room, and turned to Madame F   , who drew near the reviving girl. "She is coming to herself," said Mr. Curran. "It was the heat of the room; she is unused to hot rooms or excitement." Anna swallowed a few drops of the wine and moved with an effort to sit up. Her nervous system had received a great shock. She gazed earnestly at the lady beside her, whose features were familiar, and painfully associated in her memory, though she was unable to recall her name. "You had better go home, Anna," said Mr. Curran, breaking the pause. "You are unfit to appear again in the ball - room. Madame F will accept our excuses. [ will order the car- riage." Anna put out her hand to recall him. Mr. Curran's care was more acceptable than that of this strange lady whose coldly scrutiniz- ing eyes affrighted her by their connection, in some form, with that event of the past which an- other face to - night had brought before her in all its horrors. There was but one woman in the world who should have inspired these emo-   310      Richard Ireton. Ations,- that was Arabella Faredyce and not the Governor's lady. Mr. Curran re - appeared in a moment, with the announcement that the carriage would soon be in readiness, and, supported by his arm and accompanied by her hostess, Anna found her way to the robing room where the women in waiting wrapped her in her cloak and hood. Mr. Curran, after again expressing his apologies and regrets, handed her into the open air in as pleasant a mood as a man could be expected to entertain who left a brilliant scene of enjoyment in- its first flush behind him. Anna sank back upon the cushions, sobbing uncontrollably; all the anguish of her long, si- lent grief had its flow again. Mr. Curran, alarmed at her excitement, awoke from his own reflections, to offer what comfort he could, and tried to soothe the suffering he could not under- stand. He would have supported her in his arms, but Anna shrank from his touch, and struggled to compose herself when the carriage came to a halt, and she knew she was about to encounter the observation of the servants. Madame Curran came' out into the hall, but   Richard Ireton.     3" her alarm was quieted by her son's explanation. "The rooms were hot and crowded," he said, ("and Miss Ferrars was seized with faintness. I would not be so selfish as to desire her to re- turn to the company on my account, so we have closed our evening." Mr. Curran's explanation was reasonable, but all that night Anna lay tossing with fever on her hot pillows, and Jeffrys, who watched her, stole away in the morning to tell Madame Curran a physician had best be sent for. Mad- ame Curran did not send for a physician. She had some knowledge of herbs, and simples and she gave her patient cooling draughts and by night - fall a potion which put her in a profound sleep, from which she awoke with a headache, -but with senses preternaturally active. She dressed with Jeffry's assistance, ate her dinner in her own -room, and, late at night, when the house had grown silent, and even Jeffry's, had accepted her, thrice repeated dismissal, she wrapped herself in her shawl leaving her candle burning on her toilet table, and stole down the dark staircase. Her hand was on the door of Mr. Curran's library, he was not there, but she had little doubt that he would soon appear, and   312      Richard Ireton. debating on the propriety of lighting one of the candles which stood on the table, she seated her- self and waited -with trembling impatience the interview she had come to seek. She had no fears of interruption at this hour; the household were in their beds ; Jeffry's slept soundly after her past night's vigils. Her heart beat quickly with the echo of every footfall on the street, and she trembled with agitation and excitement. A half hour had gone, when Mr. Curran stepped into the hall, and in the sharp tension of her nerves, she was unable to rise, or make known her presence by any sound, as he came into the library and closed the door.   CHAPTER XVII. MR. CURRAN stooped to rekindle the dy- ing embers on the hearth after divest- ing himself of his outer wrappings whichl he had worn in from the hall. The first blaze of his fire, as it flashed upward, lit up to his astonished gaze the waiting appari- tion in the chair at his elbow,- a pale girl with a resolute look upon her face which seemed to have taken the rigidity of marble. Midnight surprises really seemed to be growing common to Mr. Curran; he thought Anna had lost her senses and come down from her chamber in a fit of delirium, but his second glance took in the neatly arranged toilet and the look of resolute purpose on the still face. "I am glad you are able to come down stairs, Miss Ferrars," he said, taking her cold hand which sent an icy chill into his, " but would it not have been better if you had let me know you desired to see me? I should have been at your disposal at any hour in the day."   314      Richard Ireton. "It was necessary I should see you alone, replied Anna, the color coming back to her face under the implied reproof of her unmaidenly conduct. "No one, not even Madame Curran, must know what I am about to disclose to you. I need your advice. I need a man's judgment and assistance, and I have no one else to come to." "I shall regard your confidence as sacred," said Mr. Curran. He busied himself in replen- ishing his fire for a few minutes, lighted a sec- ond candle, and drew his chair opposite his vis- itor patiently waiting her explanation. "I must begin," said Anna, in a low voice, "with my illness at the ball. To what did you attribute it?" Mr. Curran hesitated. "I believed it to pro- ceed from some mental cause," he said. Yes," said Anna. "On the day my brother was murdered, -my dear brother,--I encoun- tered a stranger riding on the edge of the heath. It was a wild, rainy day; such a day as I have never seen but on those moors. I was riding my pony to a poor woman's cottage with some nec- essaries; the man's face terrified me, it wore so dark and evil an expression. 1 knew he was   Richard Ireton.     315 my brother's murderer. I knew it when the body was found,- it was no other man. I saw him for the first time again at the ball." She dropped her face upon her hands. Mr. Curran looked away from her and gazed fixedly into the fire. An observer would have seen that this revelation possessed to him more than ordinary interest. Anna leaned back in the chair and nerved her- self to proceed. "I had but one other relative in the world," she went on, " an aunt who had nursed me in my childhood and with whom I had always lived; she lay dying while Richard Ireton's trial was taking place. I did not go to offer my evidence as it was my duty to have done; I was unconscious of almost everything in-- my great trouble. When I was told he was ac- quitted I woke to see what I had done; my ev- idence might have convicted him,- would have convicted him if he was this man as I believe,- it was not given. I heard he had gone to Amer- ica, and I followed, believing we should some day meet and God would grant me the opportunity to atone for my fault." Mr. Curran quitted his seat and leaned against the mantle. "You have not established the   316       Richard Ireton. identity of the man you saw with Richard Ire- ton, Miss Ferrars?" he said. "An innocent man might travel across the moor on that day, and, if I am right, the exact day on which the murder was committed was never proven." "I know he was the murderer," said Anna. "I never saw murder in any man's face but his; it was written on it that day. I know, too, he is Richard Ireton." "You have met him before?" Anna shook her head. A scarcely perceptible smile crossed Mr. Cur- ran's lips. "You seek my advice," he said, ( but you confide in me only in part like most of your sex on such occasions. I think I recog- nize the gentleman you believe to be Mr. Rich- ard Ireton, though he is known by another name with us." "I do need your counsel, your assistance," said Anna, in a faltering voice. "The first and dearest wish of my heart is to see justice done to my brother's memory by the punishment of his murderer. God will not permit this man, who cut him off in the bloom of his life, to walk through the world prosperous and happy and lay his head at last upon a peaceful dying pillow!   Richard Ireton.      317 Curran suddenly quitted his position against the mantel. "Anna," he said, approaching her and taking both her hands in his, "you know what my situation is, my prospects, all that I am. Since you first came to this house it has been my ardent desire to make you my wife. I have never sought the favor of any other woman. If you will marry me, I will join with you in this purpose of your life, and I will bring it to pass." He released her hands and stood back; he had thrown his all in one cast on this golden op- portunity. This was the deliverance Anna had looked to from the doubts and fears whichd istracted her ; , her only safety," as she had said to herself manv times in the last few hours. A thrill of repugnance ran through her veins as the words were upon her lips. "I will marry you," she said,-the room suddenly grew dark, object faded from before her, she had fainted. - s   CHAP rER XVIII. T may seem a matter for surprise that Richard Ireton should remain in his brother's neighborhood without a meet- ing and mutual recognition; this is ex- plained by Philip's absorption in his business, which left him no leisure for social engagement. But accident at last brought round this event as Philip was on his way home from the counting - house one evening in company with the junior member of the firm. It was in the early March, the night was gray and cold, the rough side- walks glittered with ice which reflected a heaven of myriad stars; when opposite a house whose light streamed out through the open shutters a solitary pedestrian attracted the notice of both the gentlemen, fixing Philip's gaze with the in- tensity of a shock. "That man," observed his companion, as his steps receded in the distance, "( is anj instance of the caprices of fortune. A few months back   Richard Ireton.      319 he was in the employ of Curran & Wylie on a small salary. Curran was pleased with him, and got him an introduction to the notice of our good Governor and his lady, who were so won upon by his agreeable address that they received him into high favor and he is now the incumbent of a good office." Philip turned his face from the lighted front of the house they were passing; he would not trust his voice with a reply to his companion's information; he remembered the turn of the street which was close at hand would relieve him from his company. This was the meeting so long looked to; he had found his brother, to know he was again the slave of the woman who had wrought so much wretchedness; the scene was shifted to this new world, the actors had made their appearance upon another stage to work the finale of the tragedy and meet the retribution which had not been poured out to them in full measure. It was the shadow of this hour which had thrown such a foreboding over his spirits months before when he recognized Arabella Faredyce surrounded by the glittering insignia of rank, in the Governor's pew. Other eyes that sifht   320     Richard Ireton. blasted as well, but Madame Ireton never spoke of her absent son. But what had become of the pale bride who had turned her face full of resolu- tion to the new land, to confront its dangers at the side of the beloved one? Had her slender strength failed in the privations of the wilder- ness? Was she lying in one of its unmarked graves, or was she living on, the bloom and brightness gone from the future she had pictured on her bridal day,- a future cruelly robbed of its promise by him who had so little heeded her sacrifices? Philip resolved to seek his brother on the morrow and to use all the arguments his judg- ment should suggest to persuade him to with- draw from his perilous situation. The meeting took place,- but we will precede it by the rela- tion of a prior interview which comes properly in order. The changes in Ireton's fortune had wrought their corresponding improvement in his house- hold; elegant furniture replaced its humble ap- pointments and Lucy ceased to practice the care- ful economies so wellknown to prudent house- wives whose slenderly conditioned purse must be made to supply all the family expenses from the   Richard Ireton.      821 beginning of a new quarter to the opening of the next. Yet it can hardly be supposed that these brightening smiles of fortune increased her happiness, rather they gave fresh occasion for discontent. "While we were poor," she said, "I had a share in my husband's thoughts, we took counsel together; now I am but the mis- tress of his household, who would be little missed in the madness of his headstrong passion if fate should open for her an early grave." Lucy believed herself to be as friendless as sorrowful, while, in another land, one bound to her by the close ties of kindred woke suddenly in the ennui born of guilty pleasures, or in the night of one of those bitter experiences which soften and humanize us, to remember the neg- lected child sent to the cold kindnesses of her mother's relatives. The letter reached Madame Ireton's daughters who were puzzled what reply to make, and a pang of self - reproach, perhaps for the first time, thrilled Madame Ireton's bosom as she perused the courteously worded sheet and remembered what would be the emotions of the father should he learn how faithlessly she had kept her trust in giving her neige in marriage to a man branded with a crime which compelled   822      Richard Ireton. him to fly in penury to the discomforts and hard-  ships of America. Madame Ireton softly avoided the rugged points of the truth in the answer she sent back. Lucy had married her youngest son, she wrote, the marriage had taken place more than three years prior to the date of her writing, the wedded pair' had emigrated to America in the hope of Richard's securing an appointment to office in the colonies. No tidings had been received from them since the date of their arri- val and from what their friends had been able to trace of their course, it was feared they had tlrav- eled to the settlements on the borders and had ^ there fallen a prey to the murderouis Indians. Very likely this was one of Madame Ireton's most frequent suppositions, the only way in which she could fully account for her son's con- tinued silence, but in any case this statement was well calculated to check further inquiry. a   CHAPTER XIX. I HE March days had -not gone, the i streets were still heaped with the snow V which lay deep under the boughs of the neighboring woods. The cold spring sunshine penetrated into a pleasant room, made pleasant by a crackling fire in the wide chimney, where the mistress sat at her sewing, her fingers busily plying her needle while her eyes wan- dered now and then with a look of mournful tenderness to the child playing with toys at her feet. By and by the servant entered equipped for a walk to the market, and the little one, wea- ried with her play, eagerly besought her mamma's consent to accompany her. Little Marie wasg soon wrapped in her cloak and hood, and her little dancing feet disappeared over the threshold. Lucy resumed her sewing,: which was soon again put aside with the entrance of a visitor. The door was flung open and Sambo introduced Mr.   324      Richard Ireton. Curran, whose pleased glance took in the pretty picture before him, the lady occupied with em- broidery free for once from the companionship of the little sprite who, absorbed in her plays, but awake to all the topics handled by her mamma's visitor, ever played the part of his evil genius. Mr. Curran took a seat with an air of self - grat- ulation which was more palpable than he was aware of, chatted cheerfully upon a few of the common topics of the day and dropped into a confidential tone. "A very interesting story was told to me the other day," he said " quite as in- teresting as any romance. With your permission, I will relate it. It is of a young girl who left her home and friends to become the wife of a man whose heart and soul were bound up in another love, but who accepted her hand because of the touching womanly devotion which showed itself in the gift. "I will add that he then stood before the world made infamous by a crime from whose penalty his family and wealth had bought him impunity, beggared and wrecked in fortune, and of this crime no one believed him innocent but this tender- hearted girl, - you are ill, Mrs. Ireton shall I get you a glass of water?"   Richard Ireton.     325 "The air will restore me," said Lucy, quitting her chair to approach the windows. "Really, Mr. Curran, your story has a tragical beginning." "All this took place in England;" resumed Mr. Curran, "our mother country was the theater of this man's crime, his foolish infatuation which preceded and led to it, and his marriage. I can not tell you what this young girl suffered in her life of loneliness and privation in the rude settlement where her husband's terror led him for safety. She was of gentle birth, had been reared in affluence, she must have felt the miseries of contact with the uncongenial society into which she was thrown, and a hundred fold more keenly because her sacrifice, as she saw too late, was made in vain, and in place of the loving husband leaning upon her for consolation and buoyed up by his innocence under the weight of his evil for- tunes, she found herself bound to a gloomy, repin- ing man whose murmurings upon his restless pillow too soon robbed her horror-stricken soul of its faith in his innocence. Mrs. Ireton, can you imagine a lot more desolate?" "You are a skillful painter, Mr Curran," said Lucy, "but in one thing you have overdrawn. A man stained with such a crime as you intimate   326      Richard Ireton. could not have won, without seeking it, so true a love from any -woman. Circumstances might bear hardly against him and leave him innocent." "We will not argue this point," said Mr. Cur- ran. " 'An unexpected circumstance,' perhaps a friend's kindness, placed before this unhappy man his choice to return -to the world from which he had now been, several years secluded, or to remain in this wilderness home which had begun to blossom under the united hands of labor and taste. Wisdom should have taught him to remain; affection for his wife, if any was cher- ished in that cold heart, should have enabled himn to resist the temptation for her sake; he yielded to it, knowing as he did his secret guilt, and his weakness in placing himself by this rash step in the way of discovery. God,"--continued Mr. Curran, solemnly, - "who never leaves a crime unrewarded, had prepared the theater for this new appearance, had brought to it from the scene of his crime the two actors who alone could fill the most important parts, the woman whose beauty had wrought his ruin and the witness who, watching by a dying friend, was unsum- moned on the day of his trial." Mr. Curran paused; he had not reached the   Richard Ireton.     327 end of his story, but his listener's attention was wandering. "My tale has excited your sympathy, dear lady," he said. "I have little 'more to add; I will leave you to guess the end. This unloved and neglected wife had a friend whose love prompted him to serve her in her unhappy cir- cumstances. He could hold the witness to si- lence, he could leave the young couple to enjoy their prosperity, but, being an honorable man, he questioned if he should sacrifice his integrity for a woman who had slighted and perhaps scorned his friendship. If he preserved this man, he would frustrate the purpose of justice and pre- vent the punishment of a great crime. What should be his choice, Mrs. Ireton, in so difficult a matter?" "If I understand your story, " said Lucy, a hot glow succeeding the whiteness of her cheek, "there would be no mercy in this man's heart for the unfortunate husband or the unhappy wife. He, his purpose carried out, would leave them to the misery and ruin it would be his plan to avert for a time." "Impossible!"stammered Mr. Curran. A It is a point I can scarcely wish to discuss   328       Richard Ireton. with you, Sir," said -Lucy, coolly, as she rose from her chair and busied herself with some of her household duties. "She fears me," mused Mr. Curran, recover- ing from his discomfiture. "I will allow her time to reflect upon her situation." He rose and took his leave.      .     ,          CHAPTER XX. LUCY'S nerves, shaken by the inter- view of the morning, had not time to recover their usual tone, when another - visitor was introduced as she sat brood- ing over her fears and assuring herself that Mr. Curran had been playing with her credulity in suggesting the presence of new dangers to her husband. It was scarcely a matter of surprise that he should become acquainted with their se- cret in the coming and going of emigrants to this busy town, and though she would have de- sired him least of all men to have been trusted with it, it would be little to his interest to make it public. Lucy rose in a mixture of alarm and joy at sight of Philip. Neither spoke in the warm, fraternal clasp of hands which followed. Lucy was the first,to find her voice. "Richard will be rejoiced to see you," she said. "How did you find us?"   330      Richard .lreton. She rang for lights while Philip placed him- self on a couch. "By an accident, Lucy," he replied, hastening to relieve the anxiety which expressed itself in her voice. , Yesterday I passed Richard on the street." "Then you have met," said Lucy, drawing a long breath. "Mary, bring in lights, and send in Marie in a few minutes. This gentleman is a friend of her father's and wishes to see her." She dismissed the maid, and came back to Philip. "I hope my aunt and uncle are well," she said, noticing his abstracted air, " and my cous- ins?  You came over in the last vessel, perhaps? I heard of its arrival yesterday." "My  father is dead," said Philip; " my sis- ters are married." "These are changes," said Lucy, with a sigh. "You see fortune has been busy with us. Richard is beginning to be prosperous." Her brother-in-law   looked at her in the light of the wax candles the servant had just placed on the mantel. "You have grown very beautiful, Lucy," he said. "I should scarcely have known the pale bride who went from us.   -Richard Ireton. i .  831 But you are not happy; your face tells that. How can you be, when you know from whose hand this prosperity is drawn?" Lucy made no reply. ,' Richard must go back to the border settle- ments," resumed his brother. "He- must be counseled to -do so. He must give up this office which places him in a false position. He can not long continue to remain unknown; it is wonderful how he has as yet escaped recogni- tion." "I fear he will not be persuaded," said Lucy. She thought of Mr. Curran's threats,--she wished, yet dared not confide them to this friend. Mary entered, leading the little Marie. The child shrank coyly from the stranger's invitation; her uncle drew her with gentle force upon his knee. "' She is like no one I know," he said, perusing the sober little face. t"She has your eyes, Lucy. My brother Richard is a fortunate man to be blessed with such a wife and child." He thought of his own lonely lot, and the dreams unfulfilled. Lucy smiled; her smile had a sorrowful mean- ng. "You have not told me of my aunt," she   832     JRichard Ireton. said. "I hope Madame Ireton is well. When did you arrive here?" "I quitted England six years ago," said Philip, meeting his sister- in-law's look of sur- prise. "I searched to find Richard when I landed, but my search proved unavailing, and I gave up the pursuit. Last evening, I passed him on the street; he was not near me and the recognition did not happen to be mutual." A separation extending through years will make a strangeness between us and our nearest friends. Lucy could not speak to Philip of the painful subject of her thoughts, while she knew herself to be sure of his sympathy and pity. The child's head dropped upon her uncle's shoulder; it was her bedtime, and her mother took her in her arms. "What shall I say to Richard?"Lucy asked, as Philip rose to go. "Only that I wish to see him at this hour to-morrow. I hope to find him here." Lucy saw her. visitor out. It was something in this cold world, in which she stood alone, to know that a brave, manly heart was about to give her its best service. The knowledge came like a blessed balm upon the shock of the earlier   Richard Ireton.      838 part of the day. If Mr. Curran, seated in his library, wrapped in pleasant visions of success, the rich bride and this peerless queen of his fancy both won, could have penetrated the divid- ing walls, he would have been dismayed at sight of the unusual serenity stamped in her face. Lucy sat late, waiting her husband's return. She could not lay her head upon her pillow with the news she had to impart, and so she drew pictures in the glowing and darkening coals, watching them as one by one they crumbled away, with a growing superstition at which she smiled and sighed to herself. She saw her hus- band ill each picture, now surrounded by a som- ber cavalcade of dames and gentlemen, now in lonrely paths where what seemed to be giant woods towered on all sides; and, again, as these crumbled away and what seemed to be the last of a soldier group in flaming uniforms disap- peared, a figure of a woman emerged out of the shifting forms bending over what seemed to be an open grave. Lucy started up with a shudder and heard her husband's footstep at the door. He was sur- prised to find her up. "I have had a visitor," she said. Ireton stopped in his walk across - the   334      Richard Ireton. floor, and put his hands on his wife's shoulder to draw her into a position facing him. She could hear the quickened beating of his heart in the  stillness. "It was Philip,' said Lucy. "I knew you would be glad to see him." Her husband released her, but, in the quick change in his face, relief rather than joy was ex- pressed as he resumed his walk. His brother's name recalled a debt he was unable to pay, and brought a vision of remonstrances to which he was indisposed to listen. "Your sisters are married," pursued. Lucy. "Your mother is in good health." 'They are still in England?" asked the in- different brother, who did not care to know the names of his new connections. "I believe so," said Lucy, hesitating. ,Dear Richard, your brother has some bad news to tell you. Yo'ur father is dead. He will tell you the particulars when you see him." Richard stopped in his walk and sat down by his wife. He had never expected to meet that aged face and form again,-their last farewell had been said, but it was something to know that a deeper separation had come between them. than this made by the wide ocean, and he knew   Richard Ireton. e     335 his conduct had clouded and shortened those serene days which should be the portion of old age. Once, Lucy's soft arm  would have stolen around his neck, and her fair cheek would have offered comfort'in a mute caress, but now, with that unseen but subtle barrier between them, she sat -silent with her eyes full of tender pity, gazing down in the coals at her feet, where the open grave and the kneeling form still figured.   CHAPTER XXr. o..;.G E drop the principal personages in our tale to take up a new actor who has a part in its culmination. Lady Pen- theive is getting over the mortification of her slighted invitations, and is preparing for the reception of her husband'. brother who is daily expected from the mother country. Arthur Pentheive has always been a great fiL- vorite with his handsome sister-in -law; if the fortune which came to him after his brother's marriage had fallen to him before that event, Lady David Pentheive would have been content to have been called plain Mistress Pentheive, but the fortune was not even expected, and it was as well for the young man that things turned out as they did, for though he married into- a poor and reduced family, he found in the young- est Miss Ireton, a wife who was grateful for his choice and who, it she had few'pretensions to be styled a beauty, was not likely to ruffle her hus-   ichiard Ireton.      337 band's temper by an unaimable sharpness of tongue or a show of overstrained civilities to, other gentlemen. Lady Pentheive had no affec- tion for her new sister - in - law; she was curious to see her, and angry that Arthur should have made such a fool of himself when he could have done so much better, but her vanity whispered he hadt lost everything when a certain lady re- fused to listen to his suit and a second choice had come about through accident rather than a decided inclination. Lady Pentheive had pleas- ant dreams of the enjoyment of her favorite pastime when this brother - in - law should arrive, and she was very happy- when1 the vessel landed, and her carriage made its way to the wharf, where from the deck the passengers were tak- ing their first look at the grim, snow- covered land. Arthur Pentheive had grown handsome in the years which had passed since their meeting; the first glance exchanged between them brought a glow of pleasure to Lady Pentheive's smiling face, her next look sought out the bride, and a scornful glance of her blue eyes took in the pale face sicklied with a rough sea voyage, the outer toilet, negligently made, and the reserved air   338      -Richard Ireton.' which must be the reverse of charming to a man who had once admired a creature of a style so different as her ladyship. Mrs. Arthur Pentheive had been sea - sick through most of the voyage; she had a conscious- ness of looking like a fright in the eyes of the smiling and richly- dressed lady who received her as her feet touched the land. The knowl- edge of appearing at a disadvantage made her colder and quieter than usual, but Lady Pen- theive was sadly mistaken if, in that ride home, while putting on all her charms in her tete a tete with her brother, for the silent lady scarcely spoke, she expected to regain her vassel with-, out a struggle. Before the door was reached, Alice had dis- covered that her new connection was a bold and dangerous woman, and understood why Arthur had always avoided speaking of her in his fre- quent kind mention of his brother. When Mrs. Arthur Pentheive made her ap- pearance at- the breakfast - table in the morning, for she refused to see her hostess again that night, and had a trifle of lunch sent to her cham- ber, Lady Pentheive saw the becoming morning gown in which her dowdy visitor had arrayed   Ricehard Ireton.      339 herself, the gloss of the smooth dark hair gath- ered in its richness by the confining bodkin, the fine complexion, as fair as carefully selected cos- metics could make it, and the amiable smile which replaced the expression of dullness. The guest was much refreshed by a good night's rest, she knew she had got to spend a month in this unpromis ing home, and she was fully prepared to make the best of it. Sir David was more cheerful than usual, his wife gave him  smiles before her company; Arthur, if a little shy of the object of his early folly, responded to his brother's wit; Lady Pen- theive chatted and laughed, and promised her visitors a morning drive in the town, for the streets were nearly bare, the snow had concen- trated itself mostly under the thick boughs of the woods. "I dislike Lady Pentheive'& said Mrs. Arthur Pentheive to her husband as they found them- selves in their dressing - room where Alice had gone to prepare herself for her ride. "Why?" asked Mr. Pentheive, reclining at his full length on a couch, his hands in his pock- ets, and looking up askance at his liege lady's pretty face in the mirror.   340      Rictard Ireton. "She is a bold woman, and I know she quar- rels with Sir David." Arthur whistled a moment and stopped in his tune. t'As to the last, I dare say," he con- sented. "She's a flirt," said Mrs. Pentheive, fixing her ribbons. "Now,- if you please, we will go down." The carriage was ready, Sir David had made his excuses and gone away on business. Lady Pentheive exerted herself to point out the places of interest to her visitors. Alice said the or- chards and gardens must be very beautiful when the sun melted the snow and frost, and brought out buds and leaves, and suddenly her eyes met those of a gentleman on horseback who was passing; she gave a sudden start which was noticed by her companion, as well as that the blood left her face. Lady Pentheive leaned forward to look at the gentleman who, with an answering agitation, lifted his plumed hat to acknowledge her ladyship's bow. "You have not recovered from the effects of your sea voyage," said Lady Pentheive, darting a look at her sister- in-law. "' Ah, here is the Governor's carriage, it is not likely to be far   Richard Ireton.     841 apart from Mr. Leslie, the gentleman we just met. Envious people will say cruel things, I can not tell you half the scandal they circulate of Madame H    .  Lady Pentheive knew she was telling a lie; if Master Leslie's name was coupled to that of his secret benefactress, she had never heard the story, and many a tale which has wrought a world of mischief has had no deeper begin- inrg. Mrs. Arthur raised her eyes and shuddered again, for there before her was Arabella Fare- dyce, regally attired and radiantly beautiful in all the pomp of exalted station. "Here is a mystery," said Lady Pentheive, watching her sister-in-law's blanched cheek and Arthur's; look of vexation. Lady Pentheive was charming through the rest of the day. She put her designs upon her brother-in-law out of sight, she covered his wife's low spirits with kind devices, but when supper had been served and Alice had gone to her chamber with a headache too real to be affected, where she was soon followed by her anxious husband, her ladyship left Sir David to his wine and stole softly after them.   342      Richard Ireton. It was a piece of contemptible meanness; Lady Pentheive was burning to know their secret, Arthur would shut the door of the dress- ing- room, but there was a closet opening from her own room in which every word would be audible. Lady Pentheive installed herself in it, favored by a crevice in the oak partition. Mrs. Arthur Pentheive was lying on a couch, her husband sat by her in an unamiable frame of mind, to judge from the scowl upon his face. "I tell you it is a d - d piece of foolishness!" he was saying. Y' You or I can't mend matters by interfering. All you can do is to see Philip; this you can contrive to do easily." "You are right, Arthur," said his wife. "I will obey you. To think of his being with her day after day in public,-Lady Pentheive said he was always by her carriage. He will be sure to be known. Oh, the hardihood of such doings." "Lady Pentheive never cares for the truth," said her brother - in - law, angrily. "Her word is often to be taken with limitation. Their neighborhood to - day might have been by acci- dent." "I can forgive your bitterness, my good brother," said Lady Pentheive, withdrawing   Richard Ireton.     343 from her closet with this uncomplimentary notice of herself which carried out so fully the old adage that listeners hear no good of themselves; "a rejected man may be pardoned for being bitter. So Master Leslie is Richard Ireton, and you, my lady, who look down upon me from such a serene hight of virtue, are Arabella Faredyce, conniving at a shameful deception upon your husband." "My head aches," said Alice to her husband. "See how it throbs. If these were summer days, I should think a thunder -storm was brew- ing. Who would have thought this trouble would come to life again from its embers? Arthur, I wish we had not come over here to be mixed up with it."   CHAPTER XXTr. N the night of the second day of April, a costly entertainment was given  at the Governor's house. A   throng of  guests were invited,- Lady Pentheive and her visitors among  thelm. Mrs. Arthur Pen- theive, rallying from the headache and languor which had kept her to her room- since her arri- val, made her preparations to be present. -She would not disappoint her smiling hostess by a refusal, but ladies often have many reasons to select from, and the real one was her unwilling- ness to leave her husband exposed to the fascina- tions of his sister-in - law in the most dangerous of all places for a flirtation, a drawing-room, where beauty puts on all her charms with the splendors of full dress, and where the graceful evolutions of the dance, even the cold quadrille, mingled with the strains of music, bewildered the senses. Alice knew she' would meet her brother in this assembly, but she had no fears of a con-   Richard Ireton.      345 tre temps; for the time at least he was master of his situation; and as little she feared a recogni- tion from her despised sister - in -law, who had not won influence enough in all the years she had spent with her husband to keep him - in the right way and hold the heart which her great sacrifices ought to have made hers. There were others at this ball in whom Alice Pentheive had an interest, - Mr. Curran and his affianced bride were among the guests. Anna shrank firom repeatingthe step whose fruits had been so bitter. Mr. Curran dared not violate the rules of etiquette by going alone, now that this pale girl was his promised wife; he told her Rich- ard Ireton was absent on business which would detain him until the entertainment was over. Anna believed him, and permitted herself to be arranged by Jeffrys in a new ball robe with the diamonds on her brow -which, through all the long line that had worn them, had never decked a sadder beauty for a festival. Mr. Curran lied, for he knew that both Master Leslie and his lady would be present, and he calculated upon the opportunity to pour a few -words into Lucy Ire- ton's ear. - The guests were nearly  assembled, when   346      Richard Ireton. Lady Pentheive and her friends arrived. Mrs. Arthur Pentheive kept her husband by her chair until the rooms were full and the dance had be- gun, when she changed her seat to get a better view of the performers. Her brother had passed her, apparently unconscious of her identity, a moment before, her sister- in - law's eyes had turned a startled look upon her face as she coldly ignored her proximity, now another famil- iar face attracted her attention, and after gazing earnestly at it she turned to Lady Pentheive at whose side she found herself, and said, "Lady Pentheive, who is that young woman to the left of the dancers? The brunette with diamonds? Your ladyship must see her. She looks very sad." "That is a Mistress Ferrars; a rich heiress," replied her ladyship. "She is affianced to that handsome gentleman at the back of the pretty blonde's chair. She is jealous, and he is very gallant, that is sufficient to account for her sober looks." Alice Pentheive did not seem to hear the last part of this speech ; she was looking with atten- tion at the face which was now perfectly famil- iar to her, and wondering what evil fortune had   Richard Ireton.      347 borne its fair possessor to this land to mix in the same scenes with him who had brought upon her the great sorrow of her life, whom, London gossip had said at the time, she had made a sol- emn vow to search out and punish if it should prove to be the search of a life - time. Alice was superstitious, it was the habit of the day, and she turned pale as she saw this lady sitting there, with hersad face and lustrous eyes, which last looked darker and deeper for the rays cast by the diamonds and - the absence of color in her face. Master Curran was speaking with Lucy Ire- ton; he had asked her hand for the dance and been refused. ' You have reflected upon my story, Madame," he said. "You promised * to guess the conclusion. A lady's wit is so much more subtile than ours, I am impatient to listen." Lucy fixed her eyes upon her -fan, this was not the place for haughty glances, other eyes were looking on; Lady Pentheive's gaze transfixed her at a distance. Master Curran, emboldened by a silence- which he mistook for confusion, pressed an answer. "I see you agree with me, there could be but one course left to   348      Richard Ireton. this ill-used lady. She would reward the friendship of the man who loved her and permit the sacrifice of his honor and integrity in pre- serving her husband's secret." Lucy dropped her fan, and threw at him a look of contempt. "We will drop this subject, if you please," she said. Others pressed around them as the dance ended and the discomforted Mr. Curran retreated to the side of Anna Fer- rars. At the close of the evening, Lady Pentheive sat again contemplating the dancers. She had been several times upon the floor, but she re- fused this dance and placidly contemplated the well matched couples; the Governor's lady led by Mr. Leslie, the gallant old Indian soldier, Col- onel Forsyth, moving down the quadrille with Lucy Ireton; Mr. Curran had disappeared with his fiance early in the evening. When the dance was half ended, Lady Pen- theive rose and approached a corner in which sat a middle-aged lady of a stately and imposing appearance who seemed to feel little interest in what was going on in the ball-room. She had come hither as a mark of respect to her un- cle, the Governor, and his lady, and as a sort of   BRichard Ireton.     349 chaperone of a beautiful young girl who was a fa- vorite with Arabella. Madame L  was one of those ladies who coolly ignored Lady Pen- theive on all proper occasions, and she threw a supercilious look at her ladyship as she now ap- proached her with the compliments of the even- ing. "I am weary with watching the dancers," said Lady Peatheive, smiling her insolent smile be- hind her fan, t" but there is a pretty bit of ro- mance to - night on that floor. Yonder hand- some gentleman who dances so gracefully with our Governor's lady is Richard Ireton, the man who was tried /for Landerdale's murder and whose acquittal beggared his poor old father. To - night. all eyes are turned to his happy star." Madame L   turned pale. "Whatyou say can not be true, Lady Pentheive," she faltered. "You are in error. This gentleman may resem- ble Mr. Richard Ireton." "L ought to know," said Lady Pentheive, witi her disagreeable smile, "since my brother married into this family. He is here to-night, and yonder is his wife, Mistress Alice Ireton. I am glad to see she has the good sense not to rec-   850   i   Richard Ireton. ognize Richard before this assembly. I ought to know such near connections." She had shot her shaft. Madame L  , pale as a ghost, was silent, while Lady Pentheivre crossed the room to her husband and said, "If you will order the carriage, Sir David, we- will go home." She had thrown her fire -brand, and she drove away from the home whose peace she had broken, in the most amiable of spirits.   CHAPTER XXTII. UPON the evening following the ball, Alice made her delayed visit to her mother. She wished to be alone in the inter-view and at the same time to escape Lady Pen- theive's espionage, two difficult points to carry, but both were successfully carried, and, followed by her husband's valet, whom she dismissed at the door, she arrived safely at the house and was shown into the dining-room where Madame Ireton' and her son sat at their evening repast. There were no affectionate demonstrations in this sudden meeting. Madame Ireton loved her sons, but like many mothers she had less love to spare to her daughters; a formal pressure of the hand from -the one, with a kiss from the other, made up the greetings, and Alice seated herself on a couch while the conversation was confined to the details of her voyage until the servant had carried out the dishes and closed the door be- hind her.   352      Richard Ireton. "Only to think," said Alice, her impatience finding voice, " of Richard's folly! You must see him, Philip, and talk with him. I have had a shocking headache ever since I knew of his situ- ation, thinking over the disagreeable matter." Madame  Ireton looked at her daughter. "What are you talking of, Alice?" she asked. "You know nothing of Richard? We have never heard from him; Philip has been unable to trace him." The brother and sister exchanged glances. Philip saw his kind purpose could not be carried out, his sister had revealed his secret in -which his mother must now take her painful share. "Richard is in town, Mother," -said Alice. "He is established here and prospering to every appearance. I have not had a moment's peace since I knew it." Madame Ireton leaned back in her chair; a sob, a groan burst from her. "My dear Moth- er," said Philip, taking her withered hand in his, "-do not despair. At least the wish you have so long silently felt will be gratified. You will see and speak with him." "I would to God he were lying to- night in the distant grave where I once dreamed he was   Richard Ireton.     353 at rest!" said the distressed parent. "Only sor- row and trouble are in store for him." She had prayed often for this erring and beloved one; she had besought God to make of his banishment in the wilderness, his penitence and remorse, an expiation of his crime; the re- membrance of these unanswered prayers stung her with wretchedness as she thought of his sit- uation, for honor and prosperity could not have searched for him in his gloomy hiding, they could have come but from one source, the hand of Arabella Faredyce. "You must see Richard and talk with him, Philip," persisted the sister, who was wrapped up in her own selfish anxieties. "I was at a ball at the Governor's house last night, my first ap- pearance out except when Lady Pentheive took us to an airing the morning after our arrival-- and of the couples present none were more devoted to each other than Richard and Arabella H----- .They  danced and talked together, and he came near his wife but once through the evening. It is a scandal and a shame. I wish I had stayed in England. Nothing would have in- induced me to set my feet on these shores if I could have known what was going on here."   354      BRichard Ireton. "Alice, remember your mother," said Philip, in a severe voice. "I do not believe any good. ever comes from concealment," said- Mrs. Pentheive, who was determined to give full expression to her trouble. "I was shocked and grieved last night more than I can tell. And the worst sight of all, the most disagreeable shock was, to meet Anna Ferrars in that ball. There she was, looking like a ghost in her brocade and diamonds, without a tinge of color in her face. You know she said she would find her brother's murderer if she had tol search over the world for him, and nobody was ever sus- pected but Richard." ' You must be mistaken, Alice," said Philip, in a voice which betrayed agitation. "You do not know Anna Ferrars. A young woman of this name has been living for several years under the protection of a lady, named Madame Curran, in her family, but she has little if any property, I believe, and can not be William Landerdale's sister." "I know her," said Alice. "She came up to London, you will remember, while the settlement of her property was taking place, and she was pointed out to me more than once in her drives   Richard Ire'ton.    355 with her lawyer's family on the mall. I am not mistaken. Lady Pentheive told me last night she was a great heiress and engaged to marry this Madame Curran's son or nephew." The position in which Philip sat hid his face from observation. Strange as it may seem, this news sent a thrill of joy to his heart. He under- stood now the nature of the barrier which inter- posed between him and the woman of his long, faithful love. She was not indifferent to him; he had never thought so since that hour in which he had seen the white anguish- in her face as she de- nied his suit; she believed it her duty to let an- other man's suspected crime wreck her happiness and his. But she was a great heiress,--the heiress of William Landerdale,--how strange and unreal this announcement seemed. "I will talk with Richard," said M adame Ireton, arousing, herself from the anguish of the repeated blows her daughter had dealt her in this cruel news. "He must listen with respect to the mother who bore him and who has carried A him in her heart all his life. You shall find him to-night, Philip, and send him to me. I will not doubt that the Providence which has brought me in my old age over the ocean to this new land   356      Ricehard Ireton. will grant my last wish; when that is granted, I shall be ready to die in peace." Philip looked at his sister, the same fear was expressed in her'dark eyes. She did not know of'the long and painful interview which had al- ready taken place between the brothels, how fearlessly Philip had painted to the reckless man the fact that a discovery must soon-take place, and begged him to spare himself its mortification and danger, or how warmly he had plead the cause of the noble and pure -hearted wife whom any man in his sober senses would have preferred to the unworthy idol Richard had throned in her stead, even though this neglected wife had not had the claim upon his love of being the mother of his child. i"Lucy has improved," observed Alice. "She looked really well last night. It is a pity she did not make some influence with Richard; she had every opportunity to do so after the sacrifice she made him. I should never do so much for a husband; never." Alice was right; in all the circumstances of ^her life it had been her rule to think first of her- self, as she had shown on this evening in pouring out her troubles without stint or limit.   BRichard Ireton.     357 Philip glanced at the clock on the mantel; Alice's eyes followed his glance; she said it was time for her to go. She felt better than she had felt when'she came in; her anxieties had been lightened by distribution, and she thought her mother's and Philip's interference night have somne weight with Richard. She said "good- night" very cheerfully to her mother when she had resumed her wrappings, for the night was, cold, and took Philip's arm which he was obliged to offer to escort her homlle. "t I am glad mother's closing years are made so confortable," said Alice, sending back a re- trospective glance to the pleasant rooms they had quitted as they hurried their steps in the penetrating east wind. Philip's affairs were now prosperous, and handsome, London -imported fur- niture, with another capable .servant, had taken the place of the early humble appointments of his home. "I hope you will not marry, Philip, while she lives. It would be a painful shock to her to be superseded by some young and thoughtless creature." Her brother made no answer to this kind advice; his mind was full of another sort of reflections. It was selfish to think of his own   358      B Richard Ireton. private affairs at such a moment, when hig brothelr was in so much danger, but he could not help pondering over Alice's assertion that Anna Ferrars was about to marry Mr. Curran. He did not yet believe the story ; he knew something of Mr. Curran and knew him as men know men, with a knowledge which does not always come in the way of women, but he would have been very glad to know how the story originated. "I will not trouble you to go farther, Philip," said Mrs. Pentheive, resenting her brother's si- lence as she withdrew her arm from his within a few steps of the gate. "If you are disposed to call at: Lady'Pentheive's house, I shall be glad to see you." ' I have very few opportunities to make visits," said Philip; he thought his sister would hardly care that he should present himself at Sir David's. "I shall see you soon again," said Alice, with a little nod of thanks - "good,-night," and she disappeared swiftly up the walk.   CHAPTER XXIV. WSf/ HLE the events of the last two chap- ters were going on, Lucy had fallen back into the state of despondency and sadness from which Philip's appearance had aroused her. She knew his labors had come to nothing, that advice, remonstrance and entreaty had been thrown away, and though she should have foreseen this and spared herself a disappointment, she would not foresee it, for our hopes too often take sides with our wishes. Ire- ton was little at home, and when he came, his absent airi and pre- occupied mind offered little companionship  to his grieving  wife. Lucy thought the claims of his office were uncommonly absorbing, but she knew of another channel into which a part of this interest flowed, and- she grew to hate, as strongly as a gentle and amiable woman could hate, the unworthy object of this truant love.   360      Richard Ireton.! One night she had retired early to her room, and forgotten her troubles in a profound sleep, when, at an unknown hour, she was awakened by a disagreeable sense of suffocation, and, starting from her bed, found her chamber filled with dense smoke. It was the work of an instant to snatch her sleeping child from her cot and rush to the nearest window, but when this was done her brain dizzied at the sight of the great depth below, which made a leap to the ground peril- ous and impossible, and she now heard the crackling of the advancing flames in the hall. A few men were on the sidewalk, others were hur- rying up to join them and she could see her terri- fied servants pointing with frantic gestures to her windows. It was evident that the whole lower part of the interior of the building was on fire and no one dared risk the madness of rushing up the burning staircase. There were no ladders at hand, and no at-  tempts seemed to be made to put out the con- flagration. Lucy turned her head; the flames were drawing nearer; they had seized on the oaken door, and a fresh stream of smoke rushed in, nearly blinding her. She threw up a window to escape suffocation and clasped her   Richard Ireton.      361 little Marie, whose sobs and cries penetrated her ear. "O my God, we must perish!" she exclaimed; "there is no one to save us!"Her whole being revolted from this horrible death; she shuddered at the fresh crackling of the flames as they gath- ered new violence, and found that the floor was beginning to blister her bare feet where she stood. By a movement of desperation she turned to the window, her arms still clasped her child, first in the mother's thoughts in this awful hour, but, as she grasped the sill to take the fa- tal spring, she caught sight of a ladder borne swiftly on the street. Nearer and nearer came its stout bearers,- a moment and they would be too late; the flames were close at hand, their hot breath seemed to hiss around her,--if it should prove too short! The instant's chill of terror was checked; it was planted firmly, in a solemn silence from the black throng below, and two men sprang to mount it. Lucy reached Marie to the first, who would have put the child aside in the endeavor to grasp her- self, and threw her arms around Philip's neck, who held her as safely and firmly as he had car- ried Anna Ferrars on the deck of the burning   362      Richard Ireton. vessel, till his feet touched the ground. Then a shout, solemn and deep, went up from the dark throng on the sidewalk; but Lucy heard noth- ing, nor did she see the walls of the house sweep inward as if stirred by the breath of these strong men's voices, for she-had fainted and lay like one dead in her brother - in - laW's arms. When Lucy came to herself, the doors of a hos- pitable dwelling had opened to receive her; she was lying on a couch, dressed in one of the good lady's gowns, and Madame Wylie sat beside her holding the still trembling Marie upon her lap. The room was filled with the odors of burnt feath- ers and such perfumes as Madame Wylie could gather in her haste. Lucy raised herself upon her arm and looked toward the door.  Where is my husband?" she asked. He was not in the house?" Madame Wylie gently put her back. "Lie still, dear young lady," she said. "Nobody knows where he is. He will be here soon.' The words had scarcely left her lips when the door was thrown open, and Richard, pale and excited, rushed in and threw himself on his knees by the side of his rescued wife and child, while Philip walked to a window turning his back to   Richard Ireton.     363 a scene upon which he had no right to look. For an instant, an instant only, Lucy's eyes searched her husband's face; with the discovery of his safety, an awful doubt had crossed her, but as she looked, the horror whatever it was faded away and she returned the grateful em- brace with which he took her in his arms. Philip came forward to offer his share of con- gratulations. No one knew how the, fire origi- nated; the servants had discovered it only in time to make their escape, with such clothing as they could gather from their densely smoke - fill- ed rooms; the staircase had caught on fire and no time was left to them to arouse their mistress if they had had the presence of mind to think of her at all in their terror. Of course, everything was consumed. Master Wylie, whose guests they found them- selves, made them welcome, and his aunt, who presided over his household, joined in show- ing them every possible kindness. Madame Wylie placed her; wardrobe at Lucy's disposal and got ready her best guest chamber for her re- ception, to which she, was glad to retire to be alone for a few hours after the exciting occur- rences of the day.   CHAPTER XXV.   TUCY had made a new toilet and par- taken'- of a late breakfast when a visitor was announced, and she went in to see Master Curran who had called to offer his congratulations and services as well as to be thanked for his share in the past night's perils. Lucy received him more gra- ciously than usual. She could afford to do so, for a new peace rested upon her spirit, her hus- band's warm embrace, the words of thanksgiv- ing which had dropped from his lips in the hour of their reunion had shown her that she had a place in his heart; and that, little as his wander- ing fancy had seemed to prize her, her horrible death, had it taken place, would have been to him a deep and lasting sorrow. Mr. Curran had hazarded his life in her preservation and that of the little Marie, and she guessed some- thing of the value which Mr. Curran attached to this valuable possession; she was not willing   RiMhard Ireton.      365 to appear ungrateful, but she meant to make the interview short. "I am sorry my husband is not here to thank you, Master Curran," said Lucy, giving him her hand as he came forward to, meet her; "he will -do so at his earliest possible hour; in the mean- time you must accept my poor gratitude for the preservation of a life of more value to me than my own-.  Mr. Curran kissed her hand and relinquished it. He was only too happy, he sai1d, to have rendered her such a service. There was much confusion round the house when he came up. No one knew how to direct or advise in the absence of Mr. Ireton. He was happy to see her looking so well. He hoped she had received no harln in the alarm and terror of the fire. Lucy colored at the middle part of this speech, which she understood as a disagreeable reflection upon her husband. "Pardon me, Madame," began Mr. Curran, who had seated-himself on the couch beside her, "if I take this opportunity to renew a subject on which you have requested my silence. The importance of the matter to you, with the fact that it can not be longer delayed, must be my   366      Richard Ireton. excuse both for disobeying a lady's command and for intruding it upon you at this moment. You refused to believe what I said to you a few weeks ago, I will place the facts before you. Your secret, Madame Ireton, came into my pos- session through Anna Ferrars, my affianced wife; her name may be familiar to you, but Hhardly think you have recognized in this lady the half sister and heiress of William Landerdale. She has a deeper interest than any other person in the discovery and punishment of her brother's murderer, who, the world knows, is no other than Richard Ireton. It is in her power to supply a missing link in the evidence given on his trial, and for this purpose his discovery and identifi- cation - she has crossed the ocean to meet him. On the day on which the murder took place she encountered the murderer, riding alone, on the edge of the Hampshire moor, and was terrified at the time, as she says, by the evil expression glowing in his handsome face. When the trial took place, she was watching at the death -bed of her last friend, an aged relative who had adopted and brought her up, and she was half dazed by the shock of her fresh sorrow. She has bitterly repented her omission; she repented it in the   Richard Ireton.       367 moment when she heard his murderer was set free, and it is the strongest and deepest purpose she knows to give him up to justice." Mr. Curran stopped. "If my husband is Richard Ireton, as you as- sert," said Lucy, after a pause, "you will remem- ber he was tried and acquitted by an honest jury of'the crime of William Landerdale's murder. I remember to have heard that Anna Ferrars was half-crazed by the shock of her brother's death; it is not strange that in such a state she should fasten upon the only man to whom sus- picions were directed as the author of the crime. I pity and compassionate this unfortunate lady; I did so when I first heard her story." The excitement of the moment had deepened the color in Lucy's face-; she did not believe Mr. Curran's story; she believed he was playing with her fears; all through her wedded life she had clung to her faith in her husband; she had be- lieved in him, as she had done on her solemn wedding morning, against a1ll the world. I have the power to save him," resumed Mr. Curran, breaking the pause as if she had not spoken. "I, and I alone, can preserve his secret and silence this lady's voice. If I keep it, I   368      Richard Ireton. sacrifice my honor and integrity and hazard my character upon which no breath of scandal has ever blown, to save him from the just award of his crime. I will not pretend to be better than the average of my kind; every man has his price; for your friendship, I will save your hus- band and do all you can ask of me." Lucy rose. "I pardon this language, Mr. Cur- ran," she said. "I have a husband and a brother, each of whom would know how to punish you were I to tell them your insulting proposals. I forgive you for the sake of what passed last night, but you will do well not to count a second time upon my forbearance. You must allow me to retire." Mr. Currani rose, flushed and angry. "You would have done well to make me your friend," he exclaimed; "- you shall prove me your bitter and irreconcilable enemy. Your husband shall meet his just deserts upon the gallows, and I will find means to follow you with his infamy." Lucy made no retort, a scornful silence rested upon her lips, and Mr. Curran, turning to the spot where she had stood, saw that she had disappeared and he was placed under the morti- fying necessity of showing himself out,   CHAPTER XXVI. 9  UCY had scarcely entered her chamber, where she had retired to. recover her composure after the scene through which she had passed, when she was joined by her husband. Ireton's face was gloomy and sad; he held in his hand a paper which bore a broad, emblazoned seal. "Misfortunes never come singly, Lucy," he said. "This letter was handed to me this morning." He flung it upon the table, and, dropping into a chair, bent his face gloomily upon his hand. Lucy approached and took up the letter. It was an appointment to a post of small profit and honor in a little seaport town in New Hamp- shire, which, the Governor's scribe wrote, was conferred upon Master Richard Leslie, at the urgent request of a very good friend. "If I accept this post, Lucy," said Ireton, raising his head, " we shall return to poverty." Did the possibility cross his mind? He knew   370      Richard Ireton. how useless any thoughts of a refusal would prove, his secret was a secret no longer, his own brother had confessed it in his fanatical attempts to save him from improbable dangers, and the document on which he'threw a look of contempt had been procured by the gray - headed old man who dared not trust his young wife to his dan- gerous society, now that- he knew the identity of Master Leslie with 'the Richard Ireton who had loved and wooed her in the years that were gone and stamped his passion with the suspicion of an awful crime. It is strange what different emotions the same news will bring to persons whose interests should be closely united. The sounds of depart- ure and separation woke in Lucy's bosom a glow of joy; she knew poverty was not the greatest evil in life; she knew what the greatest evil in life was in her eyes, and here was a way merci- fully prepared out of her difficulties for her hus- band's salvation and her own coming peace. Mr. Curran had betrayed their secret, as she had feared and doubted he would do, but his shaft had fallen powerless to her; he had done her a service and she thought she could almost make up her mind to be grateful.    Richard Ireton.     371 She looked at her husband; the anguish stamped in his face was painful to see; his evil' fortune had come upon him with the shock of a heavy blow. t"Dear Richard, will you not try to take com- fort?" she said. "We were not unhappy -I was not-in the wilderness, where we had no friends but each other. I can bear everything with you. Providence has a good purpose in this great disappointment which has come to you; I know it, I feel it." "You have been a good wife to me, Lucy," said Ireton, without raising his head; " you have been athousand times better to me than I de- serve," and sinking back into his gloomy reverie with this reply he seemed to forget her presence or that she had spoken. Ireton and Lucy had few preparations to make for their journey. The flames had consumed their'household stuff and apparel; the piles of flax spun by Lucy's busy hands in the years spent at the settlement had shared in the general destruction; a few articles of dress were to be selected and made-ip, and Ireton owed a visit of thanks to the Governor. The morning of the fourth day was fixed for   372       Richard Ireton. their setting out, a suddenness of departure in- duced by-Ireton's fears, but well excused on the ground that his host, Master Wylie, was going eastward on this day, and it was desirable the two parties should travel together for mutual protection. The savages, though subdued, had not been conquered, and new tales of strife and bloodshed were coming up from the remote set- tlements; settlers' cabins had again been put to the torch, while their inmates were massacred or driven away into captivity, and even one or more of the garrisons had been surprised and shared the same fate. Ireton and his negro would prove an important addition to the two servants Mr. Wylie designed to take with him,  and we suspect the gentleman was also well pleased with the companionship of a lady whose society would help to while away the tediousness of the road, for he was a very gallant man. Lucy was pained by her husband's necessity of borrowing a considerable sum from his host to provide them in suitable apparel for their jour- ney and to furnish the means of housekeeping on their arrival. Under ordinary circumstances, this money could have been asked of Philip with a better grace, but Ireton's large indebtedness to   Richard Ireton.     373 him would have prevented its acceptance had no other obstacle stood in the way. Philip had not met his brother since the night on which he had rescued his wife from the flames; he had pre- sented himself once at Mr. Wylie's house in the interval, but he was told that Richard was ab- sent on that occasion and Lucy had retired with a slight indisposition to her chamber, from which he would not allow her to be aroused. His sec- ond visit took place on the evening of the day set for the journey. Lucy received him with unusual demonstra- tions of pleasure. She had feared they would separate without a parting interview, and had been sadly troubled by the coldness with which her husband had listened to the outpouring of her fears. "We leave here to-morrow," she began, as soon as the agitation of their meeting had a little subsided. "We are going back to be separated only by a ferry from the little settlement from which we started. You will bid us God - speed, Philip, and pray that we may meet again in bet- ter times?" Philip's face brightened up with a glow of re- lief. "I am happy to hear Richard has come to   374      Richard Ireton. his reason," he said, after a moment's silence. "It is a necessity," said Lucy, blushing. 'i I will not keep back the truth. He believes some one has betrayed him; at least it is better he should go away. His new salary will be less than eighty pounds a year, but with a house and garden added to it, we hope to meet our ne- cessities. We shall live frugally." Philip sat in deep thought. Providence had opened a way in this difficult case through all its intricacies; were he enemy or friend who had found the Governor's ear, he had rendered an in- valuable service to the object of his disclosures and removed a load of anxiety and fear from otheis. He thought of his aged mother as he left her to-night, waiting with bowed head her son's coming; he remembered how painfully the anguish and humiliation expressed in her atti- tude had affected him as he passed out. It was cruel to keep from her these good tidings. "I must shorten my visit, Lucy," be began, rising. "I hoped to have found Richard here, but your good news compensates my disappoint- ment. I have not told you,-perhaps I should have done so,--that my mother is here, to share my home. An accident has betrayed Richard's   Richard Ireton.      375 presence and situation to her, and I came here to - night on her behalf. She is looking this mo- ment to a meeting with him ; it will be a much calmer interview now that he has decided upon the course she would have advised him to take." "My aunt, Madame Ireton, is here?" re- peated Lucy, extremely surprised. "You will see Richard as soon as he returns?" said Philip, sensible that the hour was already late. c"He will not refuse to see his mother. Here is her address," and he hastily penciled a few words on a paper. "May- God protect and bless you, Lucy, as you deserve to be blessed!" He pressed her hand as he relinquished the pa- per and passed out from the hall into the black- ness of the night. Lucy resumed her seat in the recess of the window. She did not wish to rejoin Madame Wylie, who had indeed by this time very proba- bly retired to her chamber, and she was anxious to give her husband his message. She remem- bered that Madame Ireton had had no thought of her in her overwhelming anxiety for her son. Nearly an hour had gone by, before Lucy was aroused from a light slumberl into which she had   376      Richard Ireton. fallen by her husband's step and presence. "I have been waiting for you, Richard," she ex- claimed, starting up as soonw- as she recognized him. ( Philip has been here," and she quickly told him all. Ireton listened with a gloomy frown upon his face, and when she had ended he made no re- ply. In his heart he cursed his family for this last misfortune which had fallen, and the loving mother who had cradled higsinfancy and borne with his wayward youth and manhood, was not exempted in his resentment. Lucy saw him thrust the paper she had put into his hands into the smoldering embers on the hearth, and retire in moody silence-to his chamber, where she soon followed and lost her troubled thoughts, with the morrow's journey, in the depths of a pro- found repose. /   CHAPTER XXVII. THE day broke fair and clear, the east was red with long lines of purple which spread over the tops of the thick woods into which the little party emerged from the still slumbering town. The river lay behind them, a sheet of molten splendor in the sunrise, few .people were stirring; in one house in'the distance an aged woman watched and wept for the unfilial son who had denied her the mourn- ful consolation of a farewell, and in another a young and beautiful lady breathed upon her knees the name of the man who, unknown to her, was going forth from the path of danger he had daily trod, asking God, as she had done inthis morning prayer for eight long years, that he would bring to him the awards of his great crime. In another mansion not far away, a lady as young and beautiful waked to send grieving and tender thoughts after the man who she knew was going to his exile, and a stern, gloomy-   378      Richard Ireton. eyed man pondered, with dark thoughts, on the frailty and weakness of woman and despised himself for the easy faith which had made him a victim to their wiles and pretensions. Behind, spread the town with its picturesque hills, its clustering houses and irregular streets, its open bay and river; before, was the rough road, winding through woods under whose bare boughs the snow lay deep, varied here and there by patches of wintergreen or moss freshened by a late rain and a cluster or two of spring anem- ones exciting wonder how their slender stems, bearing a fiagile blossom of pure pink or pearly white, could venture out of their warm chambers into the sharp air. Lucy lightly reined in her spirited horse, the cool air quickened the blood in her veins, her heart beat with joyful sympathy with nature into whose lonely scenes they were entering, she felt the peace which follows the removal of a great burden. Master Wylie rode by her side beguiling the dullness of the way with his light conversation, while the little Marie, poised on his saddle, turned a deaf ear to her mother's remonstrances, who feared she would weary her kind friend, and clamored eagerly for the delicate anemones she saw blooming in the   Richard Ireton.      379 woods, to the gratification of which childish wish Master Wyhe was fain to dismount and gather them, a service for which he felt himself fully rewarded by a glance from the mother's bright eyes. Ireton rode a little in advance with his negro, to spy out the perils of the road, if any there were, Master Wylie's two servants dropped a pace or two behind with muskets ready for use, and Lucy gave herself up to the enjoyment of the hour, the sense of a delightful ride, aind the society of an agreeable companion. Once or twice her eyes searched out her hus- band when a turn in. the winding road, thickly wooded here and there, hid him from sight, and twice or thrice Master Wylie pressed forward with quickened speed when these indications of fear became apparent, but on the whole they saw nothing to alarm them and reined up their horses at a cabin, when the sun stood high at noon - day without having met with any incident of impor- tance. They had passed villages and small towns, lonely cabins and wooded wastes, had met two or three parties on the road, and were faint and hungry with their long ride, a condition in which their tired beasts might be supposed to share.   380      Richard Ireton. The mistress of the house, a buxom young woman, came to the door in her short gown and homespun petticoats, and the master quickly followed to invite the travelers to dismount while his good woman set before them what her house afforded. Hot bannocks, milk and cheese, was the best she could offer, but with this the party was forced to be content, and a liberal supply of grain for the horses was furnished. "These be gloomy times on the road," said the farmer. "The Indians are about. You'll. have to take good care of yourselves and get to your journey's end before dark. My woman and I are going into garrison to - morrow." Both the gentlemen looked at Lucy; the negro showed his teeth as his frightened lips stood apart. "We are well armed and well mounted," said Ireton. "We shall get on safely." "It's bad to have a woman and child in your company," said the good man. "The savages has no mercy for age or sex. You be fromn the town, I suppose, gentlemen? going eastward to see your friends maybe?" Lucy smiled; she had no fears of the road, but all possible faith in her husband's protecting   Richard Ireton.      381 arm and the service of this gallant gentleman so late their host, with whom her associations would have been unmixedly pleasant if she had not remembered what she had forgotten in the -first of the day, that her husband owed him a large debt which it might never be in his power to repay. She had dismissed it from her thoughts in the exhilaration of the first part of her ride, but now, when she was a little wearied, it started up from its ambush, as bad thoughts always do when we are in such condition; her replies Cgrew less animated, her air more reserved as they resumed their route, and Mr. Wylie, probably imputing this change- to a different cause, rode forward to change places with Ireton who found himself rather unwillingly obliged to take the vacated post at the side of his wife. He was in no mood for conversation, or even to meet the eyes of affectionate interest; his state was morose and gloomy, and he was still disposed to yield it indulgence. Lucy made no attempts at conversation; she read the frowning brow and the absent air as she had read them a thousand times before, and contented herself with watch- ing little Marie, who, with her hands tightly grasp- ing the half wilted flowers Mr. Wyhe had kindly   382     Richard Ireton. gathered for her on the last sunny slope, was nodding her bright head and seemed ready to drop away into the land of sleep. Mr. Wylie fell back when they came in sight of a village or small town and rode at Lucy's side through the street. '"We are not very far from our night's resting place," he said, " and you will have reached the end of your journey." Lucy smiled her thanks to the kind purpose of this speech; she was weary with the rapid rate at which they had come, and the little Marie had an hour ago dropped asleep upon her father's arm. Lucy glanced at her husband's clouded face; she was embarrassed by his silence; surely he could not forget what he owed Mr. Wylie, the instincts of common courtesy should arouse him from this silent mood. Master Wylie's eyes followed hers. "It is singular," he said, " that in all this time we have known each other. I have not put a question which has been several times in my thoughts. My mother was a Leslie, her family originated in Hampshire, it is very likely I may claim a rela- tionship with your husband, Madame Leslie." The blood mounted to Lucy's cheeks at this sudden speech, she looked at Ireton for she   Richard Ireton.     383 felt uncertain how to frame a fitting reply. "We will ride forward, with your leave, Master Wylie," said Ireton, suddenly aroused from his thoughtful mood. "I judge this to be the most dangerous part of the road." He beckoned to his negro, who had fallen behind, to come up to the side of his mistress and spurred his horse a few paces ahead, followed by his friend. Mr. Wylie did not believe in the alarms of the road; he remembered that this subject of the relationship had been started once before in an early part of his acquaintance with Ireton and had been as abruptly broken off; he thought of the cabin in the woods where this man of culture and talent had made his home with the rudest settlers, of the exalted hight-of fortune to which while poor and unknown he had been raised from his desk in the counting - room, and now this singular acceptance of a post of little profit or honor in an obscure town, for which he resigned a handsome income with the brilliant future opening before him and what Mr. Wylie, though a man of a different stamp from Mr. Curran, well: understood was a' thousand times dearer, the smiles of a beautiful and bewitching woman, whose influence might   384      Richard Ireton. raise him step by step to the highest summit of his ambitious dreams. There was a mystery here, a secret of some dangerousnature kept from the light of day. Mr. Wylie rode on, pon- dering its possible character, and by and by the sun began to descend in the west behind the tops of the woods, and the party hurried up their lagging horses to reach the town before the night should be upon them. The stars were out when they rode in, a glitter- ing host in the blue sky, a few lights shone out through the open shutters in the principal street where, they halted at the tavern in which they were to pass the night, and Lucy, as she received her sleeping child from her husband's arm, was thankful that their journey was at an end and refreshment and repose were at hand. A good supper was got ready for the travelers, a clean, well- aired room in which a blazing fire had been made was given up to the lady's use. Lucy retired early, but the men sat late before the crackling fire in the wide hall, joining with other strangers in exchanging the topics of the day, the news in the last vessel from England, Gov. H   's measures on a subject which was then exciting considerable agitation, and, most of   Richard Ireton.     385 all, the Indian troubles which came to their very doors, and Ireton mildly condemned as he had done before the policy used toward the misera- ble red man, and found scornful and incredulous listeners. Mr. Wylie quitted the tavern to resume his journey at sunrise in the morning. Lucy was still wrapped in the deep repose which the fatigues of the preceding day had brought her. Ireton, who had slept little, was in readiness to see his friend off with parting wishes for his safe journey and an invitation to make his stay at his house on his way back, in which he would by that time be fully established, and where he would be happy to entertain him several days. Master Wylie thought so busy a man as himself would hardly find leisure for loitering, pleasant as the picture of a few days spent in this interest- ing family might seem, but he promised to spend a night under their roof, and, after a friendly hand clasp, Ireton saw him mount and ride away on the path to the ferry, his two servants following behind him. Their next meeting proved to be in very 'different scenes, for Mr. Wylie found his business to be of so pressing a character that he traveled day and night on his   886      Richard Ireton. way back, notwithstanding the dangers of the road, and had no time to search out his friends. A busy day was before Ireton; Lucy's first care, when she had breakfasted and the landlady had kindly consented that one of her my'is^- should take care of Marie for the morning, was to select a few necessary articles of furniture for their new home to which she first proceeded to pay a visit. The house was situated a little way from the bank of the river, which was now green with 'fringing alders whose slim tassels drooped gracefully over an Indian canoe and a couple of dug - outs tethered at the end of the path on the shore. A scattering orchard surrounded the dwelling, which was built after the fashion of pretentious houses of those times, with gable ends, steep roofs, twisted chimneys, and latticed windows filled with small diamond-paned glass. A wide hall ran through the interior, with a large chimney - place on one side and a long table on the other, expressive of the hospitality which was one of the strongest traits of the period. The hall was lighted by two large windows at the front and a still larger window at the end, in which a staircase ascended to the rooms above.   Richard Ireton.     387 Three doors opened from this hall into rooms on the right and three on the left. "We will set these apart for our guests," said Lucy, smiling to her husband as she des- ignated the first two rooms on the left, "when we are able to furnish them. This pleasant room -which looks on the garden shall be our own chamber, the one opening into it will'aswer as a nursery for Marie, and this will be o)nr dining- hall. The room  at the end is a kitn ; and the servants may select their chambers" The hardest part of the day's work was to follow. Lucy had little choice in the two stores the town offered, the difficulty was to decide what must be got and what could be dispensed with for the present. When the day was over her purse was empty, but she had something to look at in the substantial articles which took the air of nakedness from the rooms and in a variety of small stores deposited under lock and key in the kitchen.  Her landlady had recommended a stout girl who was willing to talke the place Mary had vacated by remaining behind, and on the whole Lucy   thought their situation very tolerable. "This will be a nice spot for a vege- table garden," she said, directing her husband's   Richard Ireton. attention to an open space in the front of the house which seemed to have been originally put to this use. " We have come here just in the season of the spring to plant. I shall want a sweet briar to make a hedge under this window. Some day, you will cross over to the woods with me to find it. I should like to visit our old cabin." Ireton made no answer; his wife turning to look at him saw his absent air and the gloom which shadowed his face. She could not see the phantom whose hand beckoned him in the dis- tance which seemed to grow nearer as he gazed. The presentiment which had come to him years before that his life was to close in these dark and lonely woods which rustled every morning on the opposite bank, had recurred to him on the first night of his arrival; it might be a superstition but it was constantly present with him.   CHAPTER     XXVIII. HE next four months bring no important changes in the position of the principal persons in our story.  Madame F   's series of balls closed on the night of the second day of April, in which Lady Pentheive betrayed her to the resentment of her husband. A few formal dinner parties have been given at the Governor's table, and to this, which is given in September and is on a larger scale than those preceding it, Lady Pentheive and her friends are invited, as well as Mr. Curran and his affi- anced wife, whom everybody knows at last he is to marry. Arabella Faredyce is as blooming and beauti- ful as ever, nobody is cruel enough to whisper that rouge hides the pallor of her cheeks, but her spirits are uneven, there are moments when a spell of absence will fall upon her in the midst of company. The ladies were gathered in the western room, which answered the purposes of a drawing-  Richard Ireton. room, a tolerably large company with a proper proportion of gentlemen. Lady Pentheive devoted herself to Anna Fer- rars, whose acquaintance she was anxious to court, and who was a stranger to nearly all present. "Madame H     has lost her gay spirits," said Lady Pentheive to her new friend as they sat a little apart in the recess of a window opening on the garden which wore a pleasant aspect, its trees laden with ripening fruit. " She has not been quite herself since Master Leslie disappeared so suddenly. IHe was a gay and handsome man and it is no wonder he should hav6 been a favorite' with so young and beautiful a woman." Anna looked over to the object of this remark, and saw that she was listening with an absent air to the flatteries of a gentleman whose admir- ing glance and courteous attitude were a good in- terpretation of the language of compliment upon her lips. Lady Pentheive saw the pallor which whitened her companion's cheek, and went on with the adroit game which her ladyship had undertaken to play.   Richard Ireton.  *       391 " Master Leslie's departure was very sudden," she pursued, "it was a matter of surprise to many that he should think any fortune superior to the notice and patronage of our good Govern- or and his lady. He was a man 'of great pub- lic talents, a charming companion for a ball- room, besides, and his lady was no less fascinat- ing-she has had to pay the tax which a woman of such striking beauty always pays to invidious tongues--but, pardon me Mistress Ferrars ! " in terrupted Lady Pentheive, as if stung by a sud- den recollection, " they were friends of Master Curran, who, [ have been told, brought this gen- tleman out of obscurity ?" Anna Ferrars had seen Lucy Ireton on the night of her last ball; she had been attracted by the innocence and purity which beamed from her face and movements, as well as by her beauty, to inquire her name, and had felt an emotion of pity when she discovered that this beautiful woman was the wife of Richard Ireton. She had observed what Lady Pentheive had not seen dis- tinctly that night in the little scene in which Mr. Curran hacda part, the withering glance of con- tempt flashed upon him from the lady's blue eyes.    392   '   BRichard Ireton.    ' ' You know neither of these persons?" re- peated Lady Pentheive to Anna's quiet reply, her face putting on a gentle expression of sur- prise. "This is like Mr. Curran's generosity and goodness. He is not a man to trumpet his good deeds. The story is told that he found this couple in very humble circumstances; I believe they were living in a rude cabin in one of the border settlements. Mr. Curran took a strong interest in them, and offered Master Leslie a post in his counting-room, after which he took further care to advance his fortunes. This sounds like romance, this tale of so much generosity in our hard, suspicious world, but you know even bet- ter than myself, my dear Mistress Ferrars, Mr. Curran's excellent heart." The summons to dinner was a welcome inter- ruption to Anna to the reply which might have been expected. Lady Pentheive's speech had all the effect she intended for it, but of a differ- ent kind. Anna's whole mind was shaken with alarm and doubt. She did not desire' a fuller, understanding than she possessed of the man she had promised to marry; she believed him to be destitute of morality, and foresaw the rough path she would be called to tread at his side, but   Richard Ireton.      393 if this woman had told her the truth, he was ca- pable of slighting her interests and breaking his promise. He had explained Ireton's departure in a confused and unsatisfactory manner at the time; he was wholly at a loss to account for it, but this he did not tell her ; she began to think he had given his friend the warning that he might further his objects with the wife who might look upon him as the savior of her hus- band, as he had already been his patron. Lady Pentheive took her brother - in-law's arm to the dining- hall; Anna: followed with Mr. Curran, and accident seated her between the two; Mr. Curran on one -side with Lady Pen- theive on the other. Lady Pentheive guessed her fair neighbor's dissatisfaction at this ar- rangement, and regretted it; it had been far from her intention to excite distrust of herself in her mind; she had forgotten that the messenger of evil news is never welcome. She sought An- na Ferrars's intimacy to assist her own ends, which were to regain a fickle heart; now that Lucy Ireton had disappeared, she flattered her- self this field was without a rival. Mr. Curran's manner favored this supposition ; he could not commit the impoliteness of convers-   394      Richard Ireton. ing with her across Miss Ferrars, but he paid her thefew courtesies of the table which acci- dent allowed, and, while the gentlemen were lu at their wine, he made his appearance to join the ladies and broke up Lady Pentheive's tete a tete with her hostess, who cordially disliked her, now more than ever since she had taken pains to search out the name of the person who had done her so cruel a service. Anna watched their lively sallies with atten- tion. She was not alone, a dull conversation was going on around her in which she took her part, but her reflections went on. Could she go through a long life with this man who had not one redeeming virtue to make him noble in her eyes. She knew something of the love. which may for a time gloss over vices to a fond woman, and make sacrifices easy, but she had none of this love for Mr. Curran, its balanced contrary was a cool indifference which might take the shape of a positive aversion under some day's provocation and wrong.   CHAPTER XXTX. HE company separated at an early our; Anna was handed into Mr. Cur- ran's carriage, which drove away. "You seem sober, Anna," said Mr. Curran, addressing her in the familiar manner which their relations allowed. "I am sorry to believe you have not enjoyed the evening?" "You at least were happy," said Anna, with a bitterness she could not keep out of the retort. Mr. Curran smiled; the prize was so nearly his he had not thought it worth while to keep up his wooing, a fact of which he supposed himself to be now reminded. "I wish to recall the terms of our engagement to you, Mr. Curran," said Anna, interrupting him as he was about to speak. "You promised to unite with me in bringing my brother's mur- derer to justice, and on this condition I consented to become your wife. As a weak and ignorant woman, without friends, I can have but one   396      Richard Ireton. proof of your good faith, this must consist in bringing my object to pass. On the day Richard Ireton, being re - arrested, is legally condemned for his crime, I shall be ready to give you my hand, but if this re-arrest and sentence does not take place, I consider myself absolved from my promise, and I shall never marry." "You place me under hard conditions, Mrs. Ferrars," said Mr. Curran, recovering from his pause of surprise. "You will pardon me if I re- mind you that I understood the terms of our en- gagement differently. As your husband, I shall be bound to bring the author of that crime to punishment; I shall be as deeply interested in doing so as yourself." "I have read that men use little sincerity with women, where their interests are concerned," said Anna. "My resolution is made; you may call it a woman's caprice, or weakness, as you will." "You shall be satisfied, Madame," said Mr. Curran, in a voice which betrayed resentment. "I have not thought it necessary to put you in possession of the steps I have taken, but I have good faith that the next vessel from England will bring us important news."   Richard Ireton.     397 "What a shrew!" he reflected as the carriage rolled up to. the gate. "So this is a specimen of the kind of domestic happiness I may expect with this high-spirited lady?" But his con- science was not clear of offense. He knew that he had lingered too long by Lady Pentheive's side that evening, her lady ship was in a brilliant humor and looking handsomer than ever, and Sir David had made himself ridiculous by watch- ing them as he had done on former occasions. Mr. Curran thought of the fortune his lady-love would bring him; of her fine person and stately carriage, which would do credit to his choice. In the little interval before the carriage stopped, his complacency had returned and he handed his fiance out with a lover-like attention, which she scarcely saw or felt. Anna went to her chamber where Jeffrys was waiting and soon dismissed her maid in a manner unlike her usual considerate gentleness. The girl had first unbound her hair and substituted a wrapper for the elaborate costume of the party. She was under the roof of the man who had be- friended Richard Ireton, who had drawn him froml obscurity, brought him to notice and honor, and now in his hour of danger he had given him   Richard Ireton. a friend's warning and sent him back to his hid- ing. Anna felt so friendless, so lonely! she leaned her face upon her hands, the hot tears gushed from her eyes. Brought up as she had been in the close retirement of a country life, with no society of her own age, and later sur- rounded by a seclusion almost as strict in Madame Curran's house, she had actually believed this pol- ished man of the world was in love with her when he asked her hand. One season of London life, if she had had its experience, would have spared her this delusion, and if he had been a poor man, a sus- picion of his interested motives might have arisen, but she knew Mr. Curran to be both rich and pop- ular and able in his own conceit to obtain any woman's hand for the asking. To-night he had lingered at Lady Pentheive's side, had hung upon her ladyship's lightest word, and his eyes had a language which they had never worn when fixed upon herself. Anna did not retire to her bed for the night; she bathed her eyes in perfumed water before she went down to breakfast to remove the traces of her tearful vigils, but only rouge could have hidden the pallor of her cheeks. Mr. Curran paid her more than his usual attention at the   Richard Ireton.   table and Madame made her kind inquiries. She expressed her fears that her young friend had not rested well; she pitied the woman who, her mother's penetration told her, was ani unloved bride, but like many !nothers her tenderness was bound up in the well being of this son, and, for- getting the experience she had herself proved, she believed everything she desired; that in time the man with vices and no affection might ap- preciate a virtuous woman and be worthy of her.   CHAPTER XXX. I   AFTER    breakfast, Madame Curran or- dered her carriage for an airing. It had scarcely driven away when a servant came to tell Miss Ferrars a gentleman had called to see her. He had omitted to send in his name. Anna proceeded to the parlor and met Philip Ireton, It was the first time they had seen each other in private since the day on which she had rejected his suit. Anna seated herself at some distance from him and waited to hear his errand. Her heart beat audibly, but she controlled her agitation. "You wished to see Madame Curran, Mr. Ire- ton ?" she suggested.  "Your message. was brought to me by a mistake." " You will forgive my intrusion, Miss Ferrars," said Philip. "My errand will explain it; I have learned the cause of your refusal of my suit more than a year ago.  It has emboldened me to make this visit to urge a claim founded on   our mutual regard for each other, that you will listen to me with patience." " You can not be aware, Mr. Ireton," said An- na, rising, with much emotion," that I am en- gaged to Mr. Curran.'  " This fact has led to my visit," said Philip, after a pause in which he begged her to resume her segt. "I should not be just to you, un- friended and unadvised as I believe you to be, or to myself, if I did not urge you to withdraw from this step. You are about to marry a man for whom you have not the affection which should influence a woman in choosing a husband, and this man, as I happen to know, is unworthy of you and will not make you happy." "You speak strongly," said Anna, fixing her eyes for the first time on him. " I thank you for the kindness of your motives." Be guided by them," pursued Philip. "Mr. Curran is a man careless in morals and fickle in character. He is unworthy of the possession of a pure and noble woman." "He may be all that you say," replied Anna, speaking in a low voice, "but I shall marry him. "If weak in morals and fickle in character, so much more may su   a manneed the compnion- much more may such a man need the companion-  402      Richard Ireton. ship of a true and earnest friend who will work for his reformation the more patiently that her love has never been great enough to conceal his faults and she can never feel the miseries of dis- appointment." "You deceive yourself, Miss Ferrars," said Ireton. "The strongest and deepest love of a human heart should be brought to such a work. Without it, a woman's faith must fail and her courage sink in the beginning." He spoke from his knowledge of his sex, with the clear-sightedness of a man of the world, who has looked on much that is hidden from a woman's eyes, a woman whose life is spent in the privacy of her home. Anna's thoughts were busy with the real nature of her contract with Mr. Curran, the cruel fate which compelled her to marry a man to whom the vow " to love and honor " would be a mock- ery, while before her, with the stamp of every virtue upon his noble face, was the one whose constant love could make her happy. "I have not spoken of the obstacle between us," resumed Philip; " it must be spoken of be- fore we part. You have a right to slight and reject an every - day love, but not mine, to which   Richard Ireton.     403 you have unwillingly given-acceptance and re- turn. I am innocent of the crime for which you have refused me your hand; my brother was ac- quitted of it by his judges; it is from a false sense of duty that you do me an injustice which some day you will see and repent." "Nothing can change my  purposes," said Anna. "Providence has marked out the path in which I must go. I have no choice." "You believe so!" said Philip. "Your mind is worn by your great sorrow; you see only a pitiless duty. If you would be counseled by me - The door was thrown open, Master Curran -stood on the threshold, his plumed hat held lightly in his hand, and his face beaming with the exhilaration of good news. He came forward bending in courteous salutation to the visitor as Anna's trembling lips framed," Mr. Ireton," at the same moment Madame Curran, who appeared just behind her son, approached Philip with the cordial reception which the old lady always be- stowed upon her favorites. Anna rose and hurried from the room. She had reached the staircase at the end of the hall when her footsteps were arrested. 'Anna," called Mr. Curran. "I wish to   404     Richard Ireton. speak with you. Will you give me a few min- utes attention?" She stepped into the library. Mr. Curran closed the door, placed a chair for his companion and seated himself on a couch opposite. His face was flushed, his-manner excited. "At last, Anna," he began, "I am able to place before you the proofs of my faithful devo- tion to your interests. In the vessel which landed this morning isan officer bearing an order under the king's seal to arrest Richard Ireton wherever he may be found, on facts which have been discovered since his trial and which prove his guilt of the crime for which he was tried." "You wish to know the particulars, Anna?" continued Mr. Curran, sending an upward glance at the bloodless and silent face before him. "When I read the trial of Richard Ireton, little dreaming at that time of the importance his crime would one day assume to me, I was im- pressed with the fact that no person appeared who had an interest in his conviction, while on the side of the criminal a wealthy and influential family poured out money and means like water to save him. The prosecuting lawyer for the crown did all that was expected of him, but he   Richard Ireton.     405 was not expected to go into the researches which a private person would make, having neither love. nor hate in the matter. If Ireton was on the moor at the time you saw him, he must have been seen by others, and the blank which was unfilled could have been filled by testimony which must have been silenced. ' A few weeks after my promise to you, I sent a faithful and efficient person to London, and had a thorough search begun, which has turned out in the most fortunate manner. An old Scotchman, who lived on the border of the moor, saw the two men riding together in hot and an- gry altercation; he did not follow them, the day was dark and rainy; at night one of these gentlemen came to his hut to ask shelter, he had lost his way, and this man, haggard, miserable, and silent, was Richard Ireton whom the Scotch- man. afterward saw and recognized at the bar on his trial." "But," said Anna, breaking the pause, "why did he not give his testimony?" "He was well paid for his silence," replied Mr. Curran; " now he is feeble and bed-ridden, misfortunes have followed him from that hour, his children have died, fire has burned up his   406-.     Richard Ireton. , , substance, and he is glad to make confession.^ "You say the warrant for Richard Ireton's arrest is here?" It's bearer is now with the Governor," re- plied Mr. Curran. "He requires an escort both for his protection on the road and to assist in the arrest of this criminal who will make a vigorous resistance and prefer to lose his life to being taken. I have volunteered my services in my interest in your behalf, and shall start with him in an hour." Now that the great object of Anna's life was accomplished, an inexpressible sadness fell upon her. She thought of the generous brother who had beggared himself to serve this man, and of the aged mother whose strength this last blow must break. She thought of the criminal, whose crime was committed in-the heat of desperation and passion, and of the young wife, who clung to this unhappy man, his true guardian-angel. Mr. Curran sat opposite her, a look of triumph in his face and a deep joy in his heart. His hour of revenge upon the woman who had scorned him had come, and his promised wife wasi won from Philip Ireton, who would have been her-husband if he had failed.   CHAPTER XXXI. HE October sunshine fooded a wild land- scape, broken upon by the ax of the settler who had made his clearing in the primitive forest stretching for miles and miles on the border of the sea. The cabin on this clearing was the one in which Lucy had spent the first six years of her wedded life, days looked backupon with a tender regret, despite their cares and privations, in that after life of ease and fashion where she knew so many bitter hours. On this sunny autumn day, Lucy took her little Marie by the hand to pay a promised visit over the ferry. The trees by. the river were arranged in their richest colors, the moss was bright with the still warm rains and tall rows of purple asters lingered by the brooks. The squir- rels were abroad, chirping to each other with their sharp voices as they gathered in their winter stores, and a brace of rabbits were darting away -in the distance' to the cover of the Woods. The cabin had lost its green vines which had perished in one of the cold winters, it was darlk   408      Richard Ireton. and weather grimmed, the plat of sweet briar perfumed the low door - way, and a field of ripe Indian corn rustled in front. Lucy met a warm  welcome, and was soon seated in-the kitchen where her hostess was fry- ing a platter of barley pancakes for supper. "My mail talks of going into garrison," said Mrs. Conners, carefully depositing her cakes one by one in her platter. "Some of the families have gone in. I can't bear to think of being in the same house with Missus Rowe, but I do n't know but I shall have to make my mind to it. The savages are getting worse than ever; they killed two men at Fall River last week, and one at Sturgeon creek." "The Governor of Massachusetts is getting out troops to hunt them from their fastnesses," said Lucy. "Mr. Leslie told me so last night. The Governor has offered a pound for each Indian scalp. Some men will be got to join Colonel Fo-rsyth's band for this county, and others will enlist to get honor. It s a shocking way of warfare. It seems to me something could have been done to civilize these poor creatures. We have treated them like dogs." "They're no better, Missus Leslie," said her neighbor, pausing over her hot pan. ' I wish the whole land was cleared of 'em. Colonel Forsyth knows how to manage with 'em. He scalps the women and children as well as the   Richard Ireton.      409 men. I only wish he could get Castine into his hand. That wicked Frenchman makes them ten times worse than they would be, with his powder and drink." "6 Castine!" repeated Lucy, turning pale, "t not the Baron de Castine?" I have never read a satisfactory explanation of the -reasons which induced the Baron de Castine, Lucy's father, to turn his back upon civilized life and emigrate to the wilderness of America, where he remained many years, fixingc his resi- demne upon land purchased from the sachems. History tells us he was an officer in the French service, who. was urged to this course by disap- pointed ambition. He was an enemy to the English, with whom he took offense at an insult offered to a member of his family and was sup- posed to excite the Indians to make incursions on their settlements.  His wealth and generosity gave him great influence with the eastern tribes as well as his marriage with four Indian prin- cesses whom he took to be his wives. Castine still bears the Baron's name and the hights above the present village are crowned with the ruins of old fortifications. "Baron or Count," replied Mrs. Conners, "It's odd you have n't heard of him ; but I forget you are not long from Boston, and I guess our news do,n't travel fast that way. He's a French- man come to settle in Canada, or rather on some #   o   "O      Richard Ireton. land near by, he's bought of the sachems. He's doing a world of mischief; he keeps these devils in powder to kill our poor folks with." "I wish she wouldn't talk so much about the Indians, Mamma,"' whispered the little Marie, who had stolen close to her mother's side. "It scares me and it makes you so white." '"They would not venturer so near the town in daylight, Marie," said her mother. "It must be lonely here nights, Mrs. Conners," even if you have two good men. I remember how I used to lie awake and tremble with terror. You would be better off in garrison until this trouble has gone over. The Indians won't be able to make a stand after Colonel Forsyth takes the field." "t We will go in to - morrow," said Mrs. Con- ners, whose fears were quickened by her visitor's suggestion. "It's a lonesome spot, as you say; people in cities do n't know what folks in the settlements suffer." Alas! she did not see the fate close at her door ; the dark figures, hideous in war paint and savage nakedness, which were drawing near. Her husband's voice rose up cheerily -as he hummed a familiar song while plucking the gold- en ears of maize before his door, her boy's whistle followed, the oxen' alone snuffed and panted from some unexplained cause of fright  as they came round the enclosure, but not two hours later these two men lay scalped and dying   Richard Ireton.     4" across the threshold of the home they bravely but hopelessly defended, while their burning Icabin lighted the green paths of the forest into which a group of pale women were hurried, laden by their captors with the treasures of their burn- ing house. Ireton returned at nightfall from the business which had kept him absent through the day. He found an unusual gathering in the streets, women and children rushing hither and thither, and a group of men with their muskets drawn up in front of the tavern. "This is a late hour for a parade," remarked Ireton, reining in his horse, in -which his exam- ple was followed by his curious negro, and addressing a bystander, an aged man leaning upon his staff. "What is going on, my good Sir?" "The Indians have been at their work," said the man, pointing with his hand in the direction of the ferry where a line of gray smoke, flick- ered with a gleam of red, streamed up in the sky. ' A whole family's been murdered and their cabin burnt in sight of this town." Ireton's hand dropped on his rein, a gray pal- lor overspread his face. "Whose cabin?" he demanded, 4 not Conner's - his should be farther to the right. You mean the house at the ferry?" "It is Conner's cabin," said a, woman who   "2      Richard Ireton. stood near. "The savages have burnt it to ashes and killed him and all his family." "O Sir," said another woman, who had forced her way to him through the crowd, " it's all over with my poor mistress! She went"over the ferry this noon and told me to expect her back at dusk. O my poor mistress!" With a quick movement Ireton spurred his spirited horse into the crowd, which parted in his path; and pressed up to the band which was falling into line in the act of beginning to march. "I will assist you to head this pursuit, Captain Marden," he said, dismounting and throwing his rein to his negro as he spoke. "My wife and child were in Conner's cabin this noon; I will find them or their murderers before I turn back." In solemn silence, followed by the prayers and sobs of a great gathering on the shore, the boats put off and landed on the opposite side in a stillness as deep in the shadow of the dark woods where a single line of smoke still rose in the gray sky now thinly sprinkled with stars, for the heavens were overcast with moving masses of clouds and there was a prospect of rain. At -the smoldering cabin the men halted and all eyes took in the gloomy picture of desolation. The scarred remains of one of the settlers had been taken out a:nd laid on the scorched ground where a blanket decently shrouded the body, the   vRichard Ireton. others were beyond reach in the still hot embers which glowed and smoked in the cellar. Ireton's eyes were set and his lips pale. The image of his long patient, long enduring wife was vividly before him; he thought of the faith- ful love which had silently borne with his neglect and indifference, and in this awful hour her long- slighted claims made themselves felt in the bitterness which wrung from him a groan of self- execration and misery. "Grant me this one prayer, O my God!" pleaded the lips unused to supplication, " that I may avenge her murder, and I will willingly yield up my worthless life, so that my hands may be red in the blood of her murderers." "We have an able scout, Mr. Leslie," said Captain Marden, " so I think we shall come up with the devils if we have light to see the trail and the-rain will hold back. It's awfully dark in these woods already. I wish the moon would come .up." Ireton made no reply; the slow rate at which the pursuit led chafed his fiery spirit almost to madness, the scout halted often to examine the ground, -a work not easy to accomplish in the faint light shimmered down through the trees,- while the men, suspicious of an ambuscade, grasped their imuskets and sent searching glances into the darkness on every side. At daylight they came to a full halt. Some of   "4      .Richard Ireton. the men, wearied with the long tramp and awake to the danger of penetrating with a small force into the heart of the enemy's country, began to talk among themselves of the folly of continu- ing the chase. The Indians had been joined by other parties by this time and were in a condition to receive their pursuers if they should come up with them, but the chance of coming up with them was small, since they had eluded the pursuit through the night and were most likely several miles in advance. They had not had the obstacle of following a trail to contend with, but had been able to push ahead while their pursuers had lost much time. Even if they should come up with them, the result would be death to the captives, if any of the women had been spared, as this was the Indians' well known custom when their prisoners were on' the point of being rescued by their friends. Ireton listened in gloomy silence, but when Captain Marden seemed to waver under the argu- ments of his men, he drew himself up and fixed a haughty and contemptuous look upon the speakers. "Let those turn back who fear to go on," he said. "We want no cowards. For my- self, I will never give up this chase if it leads to the gates of Montreal. But"- he added, in a calmer manlier, "; our prey now lies just before us. The Indians, believing themselves safe, will halt to rest, and we shall come up with   ichard Ireton.      415 them. No man with a grain of courage in his heart would turn his back upon so clear a trail." "1 You speak rashy, Master Leslie," said Captain Marden, his cheek glowing red while his men threw lowering looks at the stranger. "But you have a deeper interest in this pursuit than any of us, and God forbid we should turn back while anything can be done. Come, my men, see to your muskets, we must use mrore caution now the day has broken." T-   CHAPTER XXXTT. EANWHLE, the poor captives were hurried through the woods without rest or pause, surrounded by their fierce -foes who threatened them with their tomahawks when they staggered under their burdens. The night, though starlit, was dark. Lucy, who, by an unusual kindness on the part of a leader, had been permitted to carry Marie in the place of the burdens heaped upon the backs of the others, stumbled more than once in crossing the streams swollen by late rains, and could hardly force her way through the thick under- growth, which spread in some spots, at the quick rate she was compelled to keep up. Once, when the day began to break, aching and exhausted in every limb, with torn garments and blistered feet, she would have yielded herself up to her fate as preferable to the horrors of captivity, but the child's soft hands clasped her neck in terror and the pressure of its fevered lips upon her face nerved her to struggle anew. Overhead, as the daylight deepened, the cries of a solitary bird broke the stillness of the flame - colored woods, whose hues grew deeper and   Richard Ireton.      417 brighter as they advanced into their depths. Now and then a dead bough fell with a reverberat- ing sound to its bed in the -soft moss, red squir- rels went glancing and chirping from tree to tree, partridges whirred from their coverts in sudden fear, and some large animal, apparently a deer, stalked once or twice in the distance. Near noon the party came to a halt and threw out 'scouts; the captives sat -on a green knoll watching the movements of their captors who were holding a rapid consultation. "There is a pursuit," whispered Mrs. Conners, grasping Lucy's arm. "They mean to murder rs before our friends come up." Lucy raised her head which, faint and ex- hausted, she had dropped on her bosom, and saw the spokesman of the Indians whose arm was stretched toward the knoll where the captives sat with fierce gesticulation, while his comrades gave a gutteral grunt of approval as he came to the close of whatever he was saying. A quick anguish shot through her bosom ; her husband was at the head of this pursuit; with rescue almost at her side she  could not die. Snatching  up Marie, she rushed forward and, placing herself before the Indians, exclaimed in her native tongue, "I am the daughter of the Baron de Castine, and this is his grandchild. I demand to be taken to him. Spare us, and he will reward you I "   "8      Richard Ireton. The Indians looked with amazement at the pale woman who stood before them. The same blood filled Lucy's veins which flowed in the veins of those fair women who passed to the guillotine but a few years later with smiles and decked with flowers to lay their heads upon its reeking block. The crisis of her terror was over and she stood haughty and erect before her captors. The Indians looked at her and at each other. They might have scorned the prayer of a poor settler's wife, but Lucy's disordered attire was of rich material, her face bore the stamp of patri- cian beauty as well as the contour of the graceful shoulders and rounded arms, and the child, as she clung to her mother, bore in her tiny features a copy of Castine. "Save us!" repeated Lucy, who saw the effect she had produced, "and Castine will give you fire - water and powder. I am his daughter, and he knows how to be grateful." "The Engless woman lies," said a burly In- dian, stepping forward with his tomahawk poised in his hand. "She  thinks her friends are coming up. Castine's daughter would not be with his enemies." There was a sudden interruption, a bullet whizzed past Lucy, burying itself in his brain, and a sharpreport of musketry followed which seemed to echo from every tree. Lucy was snatched fromn the grasp of a   BRichard Ireton.     419 swarthy savage whose knife grazed her neck, in the same instant Ireton's hold upon her waist relaxed and he fell forward upon the dying In- dian at her feet. The struggle was soon over, three dusky corpses lay upon the ground with ghastly faces upturned to the peaceful sky, the wife and daugh- ters of the murdered settler sat together on the green knoll where they had stood through the fight, a man wounded to death lay with his head upon a comrade's lap, where Lucy Ireton, tearless and pale, knelt by her dying husband. Around him stood his fellow soldiers leaning upon their muskets, away up the wood paths the low shrubs kindled with a solemn splendor, overhead a cano'py of yellow and crimson leaves rustled in the gentle air. Hour after hour, this sad group lingered; but, as the sunset threw a richer splendor over the woods, reddening the flame -colored parts, there came a tramp as of horses' feet, the men caught their-muskets and drew into line, but their fears were stayed when a little cavalcade rode in at whose head sat Colonel Forsyth. He looked pale and grave, but his eye bright- ened as it fell on the dying man and the kneel- ing wife, the little group on his right. "We are too late, Master Warden," he whis- pered to a gentleman who had dismounted and was in the act of taking a paper bearing the   Ad 420 -Richard- Ireton. ,    "                \ king's broad seal. from his bosom. "We are too late! That dying man is Richard Ireton, and it is better so." -Master Curran dismounted and came forward. "Are you sure the man is dying?" he asked of the bystanders. For answer, Captain Marden pointed, with a reproving frown, to the white brow on which the king of terrors had set his seal. As if the words had roused him from the deep repose into which he was sinking, Ireton looked up; his glance took in Colonel Forsyth, the man who stood behind him with the open parchment in his hand, Master Curran's disappointed -features, and settled back upon his wife with a look of unutterable farewell. In his dying mo- ments, his now unclouded reason saw this true and faithful love which should have been the blessing of his life, and all that human lips could ' have said shone in the look he fixed upon her. Soon his head sank more heavily against his friend's knee and his spirit was gone. "Madame, permit me to lead you from this dismal spot," said Colonel Forsyth, who had dis- mounted and approached the pale woman whom pitying hands had raised from the ground, while a rude litter was hastily prepared to receive the corpse. Lucy raised her eyes and met for her first sight, as her senses grew clear from the faintness which had hung over them like a mist, the face   Richard Ireton.      421 of the man she detested clothed in a hypocritical garb of pity. Another party had come up and alighted, and another familiar face greeted her, where she stood. "I will accept your kind offer, Sir," she said, giving her hand to the gallant old soldier, " and thank you, Master Wylie, if you will care for Marie." It was a gloomy cavalcade which took up its march in the fading sunset in the woods. First came the party from the town, bearing the litter' with its silent burden, next followed Colonel Forsyth with the sorrowful young widow mounted upon the horse of one of his soldiers, the child borne behind her on Master Wy]ie's saddle; the' rest of the company ,closed in, guiding their horses as well as they could through the under- growth which in spots impeded their progress, and using extraordinary exertions of whip and spur to force them into the shallow streams which the poor captives had forded up to their waists on their yesterday's march. "This is a sad business," said Captain Marden to Master Curran, who had, dismounted and led his horse at the head of the party, " there never was a braver or a better man than Master Leslie. He rallied my men when they were faint and ready to turn back. We little thought, when he told us at daybreak, he would go on with the pur-   422      Richard Ireton. suit if he followed it up in sight of Montreal, that he alone of our company was following it to his death." "He was fortunate," said Master Curran, dryly. "He was a very fortunate man to die under circumstances of so much honor." "Yes," said Captain Marden. "A soldier's death is honorable even if a man falls in a skir- mish with these miserable Indians. But I think Master Leslie would have preferred to live; he was devotedly attached to his family, and he has a charming wife. I never saw a finer woman than Madame Leslie." We think Master Curran's judgment must have responded to this praise, but Captain Marden waited in vain for an answerif he looked for any. The moon came up, lighting up the silent woods as the party rode on. The scout went in advance to lead the way, the litter with its bear- ers and guards followed; Lucy, faint with grief and fatigue could scarcely sit her horse with Col- onel Forsyth's hand upon her rein; Marie had dropped asleep on Master Wylie's arm, the poor women mounted behind Colonel Forsyth's sol- diers gave free vent to their grief in noisy sobs as they drew near the spot where their cabin smoldered over the bones of the father and brother who had been slain in their defense. Day had dawned when the party reached the   Richard Ireton.     423 ferry and their weary march was at all end. Master Curran turned back and spurred his horse to Lucy's side. "Madame, I am sorry for your trouble," he said, but the fierce light in his eyes contradicted his words. "I was your hus- band's friend, and I shall be glad to do you any services in my power." Lucy turned from him in silence and reached out her hand to little Marie, who had alighted from Master Wylie's saddle and was holding to that gentleman, alarmed by the crowd of stran- gers who surrounded her as she suddenly awoke from her sleep. Master Wylie approached and bent over the young widow as, with a sad, grateful look, she took her daughter in her arms. "Madame," he whispered, "if your husband was Richard Ireton, I am his first cousin. Permit me to offer you my services now we are about to part, and to ask that you will regard me as the representative of his family in your lonely situation." Lucy looked at him with thanks beaming in, her blue eyes. "You were kind to him, Master Wylie," she said. "You have been kind to me and my little Marie. God will rem ard you!" "Madame, the boat is ready," said Colonel Forsyth. She gave him her- hand to lead her on board. Marie, weeping and troubled by the gloomy faces around her, laid her head upon her   424     Richard Ireton. mother's lap. Lucy prayed silently for resignation and strength under the cruelest blow fate could have dealt her; her anguish was too deep for other thoughts; she felt no surprise ate Master Wylie's knowledge of her husband's secret, though it could hardly have seemed to her a secret after she knew it to be in the possession of Master Curran. It is said there is always an alloy in the grat- ification of an evil passion. Master Curran was not happy, though he had seen his enemy, tortured by the sight of the husband for whose love such as it was she had scorned his, dying at her feet. He wanted to see her humbled, covered with the ignominy of this husband's crime, but here he had been disappointed. Rich- ard Ireton had died like a Christian at the head of a band-of puritan soldiers, meeting his death while gallantly rescuing his wife and child from the savages, and had left behind him, after the fashion of our day which was old in his time, I believe, a host of panegyrists, now that his'race was run, to pronounce that "'there never was a braver or a better man." ,; Master Curran is sorely troubled," pondered his friend, Wylie, noticing his dejected attitude. "I could have sworn he was a happy man when he set out on this expedition. He can't be calculat- ing his prospects with poor Richard's widow? She   eRichard Ireton.     425 couldn't abide him when her husband was liv- ing, and Curran is as good as a married man now, besides." The shore was quickly thronged with all the inhabitants of the town as the boats came in sight, and anxious eyes scanned their occupants, to see who had returned in peace and safety to their homes. Many a silent prayer went up from mothers' and maidens' lips, and silver- haired men stood uncovered upon the sand as the boat's keels grazed at their feet. "God be praised," said Captain  Marden, 4" only one has been taken from our number. He, I am grieved to say, is Master Leslie." No sobs or exclamations followed this announc. ment from the people on the shore; the man who had fallen was a stranger, a man of a cold and gloomy exterior, who had won their respect by his supposed possession of a peculiar sanctity, but this icy reserve never wins the warm human heart. In a stillness as deep as that in which the little band had set out, the litter with its solemn burden was borne ashore, the men followed to meet the greetings of their families, Lucy was assisted -up the steep bank where Colonel Forsyth uncovered his gray locks, his servant leading his horse behind him, with a silent gesture of fare- well. Wylie halted by his side, Master Curran at a little distance fixed a dissatisfied look upon   426      Richard Ireton. the group, while Master Wardour, who was in his company, contemplated with a stranger's cu- rious eye the varied points of the whole scene. Lucy spoke to -the younger of the two men be- side her, her voice trembled. "I will thankfully accept your services, Master Wylie," she said, "to find Philip Ireton and tell him of his brother's death. I trust he will come to me to- morrow, if not, very 'soon. Adieu." She turned away without waiting a reply and, leading her child by the hand, disappeared up the path which wound to the entrance of the garden. Only yesterday he had crossed that threshold in life and strength; to - day, he passed it again, a cold, stiff form, borne upon men's shoulders; no! this was not he; all that was Richard Ireton had left that ghastly thing which rough hands laid with awe - struck rev- erence upon what had been his bed; he, Richard Ireton, whose short years had been so darkly clouded with passion and remorse, had just begun to live with the better powers of his being in a better and purer world.   CHAPTER XXXIII.. ASTER WYIE had sober company in his homeward journey; Colonel Forsyth stayed behind to get rest and refresh- ment for himself and his men, if indeed he turned homeward at all, for his letter of in- structions, which he now opened, showed his destination to be the heart of the enemy's coun- try, and if we know anything of the geography of the time, we should judge the heart of the en- emy's country to be in the east. Master War- dour, too, tarried to refresh himself and tired beast, trusting to Providence to find an escort when he should be ready to start,-btut Master Cur- ran had no desire to linger, and, supplied witfi J fresh horses, the two men set forth with their ser- vants, each in a profitable state of mind, if one might judge from their lengthened faces and sober bearing. They spared neither whip nor spur, and their horses must have been beasts of good speed, for the stars were just coming out to view in the sky when they drew rein in sight of the town,   428      Richard Ireton. and were set over in one of the fast plying ferry- boats, which presented a very picturesque scene in the absence of the - bridges which to - day span the river, Master Wyhe had not broken his fast since early noon, when he halted at a farm- house for his horse to feed and take breath, but he was unconscious of this animal want, in his urgent haste, and took his way directly to the count- ing-room, where he hoped to find Philip Ireton, while his fellow traveler proceeded to his own dwelling. Philip had now advanced to the position of junior partner in ,the firm he had faithfully served. Wylie entered, made known his errand, and was shown into the private office, which hap- pened to be vacant, where he was quickly fol- lowel by the man he desired to see. "Mr. Wylie has come to ask a loan," Philip thought, as he noticed the nervous agitation which pervaded his visitor's manner. "His commercial reputation is good; there is not a house in the town which would refuse to accom- modate him." "My errand, Sir, is of a personal nature," said Wylie, reading what was passing in the other's mind. "I have just discovered that we are nearly related. Our mothers came from the same stock. My mother's maiden name was Jane Leslie."   Richard Ireton.      429 "I have heard my mother speak of her elder sister," said Philip, extending his hand while a glow of pleasure suffused his face. "She came to America and died young. I remember her mar- ried name was Wylie. But I -have not institut- ed any inquiries after her family since I came over." There were sufficient reasons for his silence, the disgrace of his brother's crime reflected upon these near connections, and no very willing rec- ognition of the tie of blood might be expected from them.          V 4"lMy mother will be glad to see you," re- sumed Philip. ' She is here at my house. We have met once before, I remember, but I was then a boy. Now that I look at you closely, I see the family likeness." "I wish my errand ended here," said Wylie, after a pause. "I have painful news to tell you. Your brother Richard is dead." Philip covered his face with his hand. The news gave him a shock.  The tidings of the death of a man in the prime and vigor of life are always startling ; we believe in the decay of acre, the wearing pains of a sick bed, but a death by violence shocks our senses; there is a sense of un- preparedness and unfitness in this sudden sur- render of the pleasures and pursuits of life. "He fell while gallantly heading a charge upon the Indians to rescue his wife and child,"   430      Richard Ireton. pursued Mr.- Wylie. "He died a Christian's and a soldier's death." He walked to a win- dow to give his companion a few minutes to in- dulge his emotion. 'Madame Ireton and her child are safe?" asked Philip. "They are safe," repeated Wylie. "It is from Madame Ireton I have come to you," and in a few words he told what had taken place. Philip listened with his face bowed upon his hands. Wylie spared nothing as he went on. "It is necessary you should know all," he said, "and better you should hear it from the lips of one of your own blood," and Philip heard of the warrant brought from England for his brother's arrest, and knew that a vindictive enemy had put himself upon Richard's track to hunt up successfully the proofs of his crime and bring to him the public retribution he had long es- caped. Philip did not know who this enemy was ; he was to learn his name later from the lips of his brother's widow, as Master Curran, the man who was about to become the husband of the woman who would live to repent her delu- sion and look back with tears of repentance on the pleasant paths which a false sense of duty prevented -her from accepting at his side. "' Poor Lucy I I will start on this journey to- night," said Philip, deeply affected by the picture of her desolation and loneliness in the silent   Ricehard Ireton.     r 431 house where the uncoffined dead waited his presence for burial. "The moon will rise late, but some little time must be spent in getting up an escort. May I ask you, Wylie, to see my mother and tell her a part of what you have told me,- to explain my absence?  Stay, I will write her," and he hastily traced a fev words on a paper before him. "This will in- troduce you," he added. "My mother will be glad to welcome you, and my sister, Mistress Arthur Pentheive." 6 The bearer of bad news is seldom   wel- come," said Master Wylie, taking the paper, "1 but such comfort as I can give them in this sad hour they-shall receive."   CHAPTER  XXXIV. PHILIP set out on his gloomy journey in the still autumn night. The sky was thick with stars, but the moon did not rise until he had been an hour or two on his way. He rode a little behind, his pistols ready to his hand, while his escort galloped in front, keeping a watch for the dangers of the road which were not as great as one would at first suppose, owing to the well known habit of the Indians to avoid an attack upon armed bands in the night time. Philip's mind was busy with many thoughts, sorrowful memories of the boyhood of the man to whose burial he was hastening, pitying rec- ollections of the ruined life which an ill - regu- lated passion had blighted, and, mingling with these, came thoughts of the grieving young widow whose sorrow he must soon face and comfort as best he could. He thought of'the unreturned love she had lavished upon this man, of her gentle and noble qualities, of her youth and beauty, and he knew that time would prove a true consoler, and bring to her a love which   Richard Ireton.     433 would make the future very unlike the past. She could not believe this now in her night of sorrow, but the good purposes of God are none the less true if they be hidden from our eyes. She, so young and lovely, would not go mourning through life; there was nothing gloomy or ascetic in her sunny temper, and Philip involuntarily sighed, as he thought of another whom a man not in love might have called both ascetic and gloomy, made so by the presence of a great and ever perpetual sorrow. Philip's calmer judgment could allow no re- grets that Richard was dead; his best friend could not have wished him otherwise; he had escaped everything by dying, and it was to be hoped a decent veil of silence would rest over the whole matter. Philip and his escort rode through the night; when the suni was high, he alighted from his foam - covered horse in front of the tavern, and after committing the poor beast to the kind care of one of the landlord's servants he turned his steps to the house of mourning to which a guide showed him the way. There were no signs of life visible in'the house or grounds, the windows were closed, but his second knock brought Sambo to the door, whose sable visage expanded with a grin of satisfaction as he recognized the stranger. "Missus is bery bad," he said, ushering him in   434      Richard Ireton. with great formality. "She neither eats nor drinks," which, considering these pleasures, to- gether with making a good appearance, stood highest in Sambo's estimation, must lhave seemed to him a bad state indeed. "I will tell her you are here," and Sambo disappeared in search of his fellow servant to announce the visitor, for his superstitious fears would not allow him to ap- proach the room which held the corpse. Philip soon followed, and found Lucy at the bedside by which she had kept her vigils through the night, her hair unbound, her face swollen with weeping, and her whole attitude expressive of the unbounded indulgence of grief. He replaced the napkin reverently over the face of the inanimate object of her care, after that long sad gaze of meeting, and taking her hand begged her to compose herself for the sake of her child. "My brother Richard's widow and child are my own especial charge," he said. I will receive and cherish you both as such, while I live. I promise it to you here in his solemn presence who is soon to be borne from us." Lucy wiped away her tears. "These are hot for myself," she said. "But, O Philip, that he should have died for me! He fell in a little In- dian skirmish from which a hundred poorer men came back in safety." Philip walked to a window and looked out on the dreary prospect of the i'iver, the shore where   Richard Ireton.      435 the gorgeous trees stood which had seemed to beckon to Ireton in their summer leaf filling his heart with mysterious whispers of his fate. "It was better so, Lucy," he said. "Some time I will tell you." "Providence even here permits us to penetrate its mysteries." "I shall never be reconciled to it," said Lucy, with a fresh burst of tears. "It is dark! It is all dark." Philip let her weep in silence ; the sight of her tears vexed him; some time she must know the whole, why not tell her now? He drew his chair to her side, glanced in the direction of the marble figure on the bed, and again took her hand in his. "Try to compose yourself to listen to me, my poor sister," he said. "I have something to tell you. In justice to Richard, you must at last know his secret, which can only explain the blindness which kept him indifferent all these years to your faithful devotion to him and his interests." "Wle were happy when we lived at the settle- ment," said Lucy, in a cold voice, withdrawing her hand. "Who shall say I was a neglected wife? - not you, Philip." "Lucy," proceeded her brother -in -law with- out heeding the interruption, "you believed him innocent of the crime for which he was tried and acquitted. You did not know your belief was   436      Richard Ireton. not shared by the other members of his family;  that even his mother, who was the last to give him up, was fully satisfied of this painful truth. I can say nothing to excuse her conduct in en- couraging your marriage, or in permitting it to take place. It was a part of her- unkind neglect to you from the day you came under our roof." "What do you wish me to understand?" asked Lucy, trembling with renewed agitation. "Is this Philip Ireton, who is talking to me? You, his brother, should be the last to cast a sus- picion upon his memory to his widow, now he is gone!" "He would have wished you to be told, Lucy," said Philip, in a softened voice ; " in this way only can you fully forgive him for all you have had to bear. His crime, which was com- mitted in the heat of passion and the hot anger of a quarrel, changed him to the gloomy, silent man you knew-in these later years, who had not the power to find happiness at his hearth in the companionship of a lovely and loving wife, but was forced, given over body and soul to the evil spell which ruined him, to find stronger excite- ments in the presence of the woman for whose smiles he had lost himself. His death, in its mannerand time, was a mercy, for one of the men who stood by and watched his dying mo- ments, held in his bosom a warrant for his arrest, to take him back to England. Some enemy had ".   Richard Ireton.      437 hunted up proofs which were hidden at his trial, and brought them to light." "It was Curran!" ejaculated Lucy, with a shudder. ', Leave me now, Philip. I wish to be alone." x  . '   CHAPTER XXXV. oHEN Lucy left her chamber some hours later the traces of tears were gone from her cheeks and her manner was composed. Philip was pacing the hall, doubting the wisdom of his early disclosures, but his anxieties were put at rest with his first look in her face. Sadly as she must always remember the crime of the man with whom she had lived more than seven years in the close relation of a wife, and faithfully as she would have still clunu to him if this knowledge had come to her in his life - time, it was natural that the violence of her grief should be assuaged by  the discovery of what he had been spared, and there was now something to soothe in what had before given her intolerable anguish ; it was best that so noble a death should have closed so sorrowful and guilt-stained a life. There was this last consolation, too, of find- ing a mournful excuse for the cold heart which had given her kindness, but never love; Philip's words were true, his secret crime had so shad- owed and darkened his soul that she, in her   Richard Ireton.      439 widely different experience of innocence, had no skill to fathom his nature. At the close of the day on which Philip ar- rived, the last offices were rendered to the dead, who was laid away in the ceetery in the pres- ence of a great assemblage of )le, nd when the sober- colored sods had been place upon the lonely grave, Philip-led the weeping widow and the wondering child back to the home which another Pnonihg's sun woqld see them q hit for-  ever.  Lcly left everything to his care. She had the luxury of solitude in which she could sit and weep undisturbed ; when they should reach town there would be mourning garments to order, and philip was not sure of the kind of reception his mother woul4 offer. Madame Ireton had been passionately fond of her son, but she had never loved Lucy and she would not begin now when the, presence of Richard's wife and child might revive the scandal which time had been supposed to bury. Lucy had no fears for her future; of that future ' she scarcely thought. But, leaving her to her mournful journey, we will go on with Mr. Curran- whom we left in no very happy mood on the point of betaking himself to his house for rest and refreshment after his day's journey from the eastward. Mr. Curran deserved no thanks for his exertions, for they had been undertaken for   "O      Richard Ireton. his own pleasure, and he received none. Anna seemed to have grown more statue - like and paler than ever in his short absence; she listened with absorbed attention to all he had to tell her, but he caught a look of relief upon her face when she heard that Richard Ireton had died as Captain Marden said, "like a Christian and a soldier," and immediately Mr. Curran's mind connected two or three important facts, and he closed his narration by courteously demanding the fulfill- ,ment of the promise made by the lady before him that she would give him her hand when Richard Ireton should be brought to justice. "You have a right to exact the fulfillment of my promise, Master Curran," said Anna. "You shall fix the day, but let it not be an early one." "This day fortnight let it be, then," said Cur- ran, much relieved by the lady's manner, and Anna rose and quitted the room just in time to escape Madame Curran's congratulations, who told her son a few minutes later that this was the happiest day of her life. Master Curran should have made this speech with his own lips, but he was sullen and gloomy over some ill luck a which had fallen to him in his excursion, and ,neither his bride's pale cheeks nor her low spirits could attract his attention when they met in the morning over the breakfast table. Anna had spent a wretched night. Richard Ireton's face as she had seen him on those two   Richard: Ireton.     441 meetings in the ball room had been present to her every time she dropped asleep; she could not call into it the look she had seen on the moor, it was gentle and pleading instead; she had found her pillow wet with her tears after each of these miserable wakings, and to - day she must go out with her mother -in - law to order ler-wedding finery. "I can't bear this!" she said as she sat late in the evening before her dressing- table on which lay a set of pearls Mr. Curran had sent up, an early present for the wedding. "I shall go mad - to see this casket every morning when I wake and know what it means." She wished her marriage day had been set a week earlier. When we know a step is irretrievable, though hastily taken, it is easier to make the best of it. "These are splendid jewels!" said Anna Jeffrys, bending over the-casket. "You are a happy woman, my lady." "Child," said Miss Ferrars, "you do n't know what you say! I wish the earth would open and swallow us all up." "Something is the matter with my lady," Jeffrys said to herself as she unbound her mistress' long hair. "She don't know her good fortune. What could a woman ask for that Mr. Curran has n't got? handsome, gallant, and a power of money." "You may go, Jeffrys," said Anna, dismiss-   "2      Richard Ireton. ing her attendant. "I shall not want anything more," and the girl went out. 'It was a dismal prospect to lay her head upon the haunted pillow of last night, but it was quite as dismal a prospect to sit up haunted with re- gret and recollections. Anna went to bed and by and by fell into a deep sleep in which were formed the impressions of a strange dream. Suddenly, while her eyes were sealed, a famil- iar face bent over her, a look of tender pity shining in the dark eyes and beaming in the sorrowful smile which parted the bearded lips. 4"William!" she exclaimed in- an ecstasy of joy, reaching out her hands to embrace him. "It is long since I have seen you. Are you a real being, or a phantom?" The specter made no answer, but while it kept its position the airy outlines seemed to elude her clasp. "Speak to me, William, embrace me," she said, in an agony of emotion. "I have been faithful to your memory. My first and last thought, in all these long years since we parted, has been to avenge you or your murderer; come nearer,--listen to me, my brother. I have- made a sacrifice for this end; [ have given my hand to a man I dislike and despise." The specter's countenance changed; more ten- der, more benignant, it bent over her. Words seemed to issue from its motionless lips. "The   Richard Ireton.      448 sacrifice you offer is not demanded," it said. "( Be happy with the man you love I " The phantom, or vision, disappeared; when Anna awoke a serene peace was upon her spirits; she believed she had seen her brother, and her first act was to kneel down and pour out, in fer- vent thanksgivings, the deep joy which swelled in her bosom. At the breakfast table, Madame Curran noticed with pleasure her improved looks. Mr. Curran, still -pre - occupied, ate and drank almost in silence. When breakfast was over, Anna excused her- self from accompanying Madame to her dressing - room where her tailor was momentarily expected to take his orders for the making of the rich stuffs they had selected the previous day with infinite painstaking and trouble, and followed Master Curiran into the hall. 'I wish to speak with you, Sir," she said. She passed before hint into the library, where so many painful interviews had taken place and where she was now about to bid him a final farewell. Mr. Curran-seated himself with an air of cour- teous attention, but rose as Anna remained stand- ing, her hand lightly Testing on the arm of the chair he had placed for her. "'I have come here to tell you, Master Curran, that I can not marry you," she said. "AMy hand   "4      Richard Ireton. would be a worthless gift without my heart, and that is bestowed upon another man. I have been aware for some time that there was no love between us, and such a marriage, if consum- mated, would be unholy in the sight of God." 4"Anna," began Mr. Curran, in a tone and manner of unqualified surprise, "you do me great injustice. As to the reality of my love for you, I have told you no other woman has ever had the offer of my hand; with regard to your sentiments toward me, if they are what you now declare them to be, you should have made the discovery earlier. Our engagement has not been kept a secret from our friends, and I know your upright and noble nature too well to believe that you will choose to bring scandal upon any mem- ber of a family in which you have been cherished as a daughter."a "If I have erred, it has been through igno- rance," said Anna, her resolution supporting her through theepain with which she listened to the latter part of this speech. "I repeat, I love an- other, and for me to fulfill my promise to you, under all the circumstances, would be 'to bring upon myself a curse from Heaven.  I shall never make known to the world how our engage- ment was broken. I leave it to you to devise some way to prevent scandal. There are many women who would be proud and happy to be chosen by you, Mr. Curran. At some future   Richard Ireton.     4 45 day, I trust you may look back to rejoice that I had the courage to release you. Farewell!"She glided from him, leaving him standing pale and astonished in the floor. "6 The devil take her!" muttered Mr. Curran, as the echo of her footsteps died out in the hall. "'I shall be the laughing-stock of the town. This must be prevented," and he hur- ried out in search of his mother.   CHAPTER XXXVI. MADAME CURRAN had retired to her dressing - room, where her young friend, kneeling by her side, poured out her story,- the tale of her long-resisted love for Ireton, with the history of the purpose which brought her over the ocean to this distant land, and her discovery of the fact, which, to Madame Curran, had been but too well known from tile beginning, that her son had been actuated by some other motive than personal affection in seeking her hand. Madame Curran's peaceful dream of a tranquil old age, spent in the society of this young and amiable woman, who was every way worthy to be her daughter, had come to an end, but she' received the truth with re- sentment and wounded pride. "You will not put this insult upon my son, Anna?" she said, with a vehemence unlike her usual calmness of manner. "I little thought I was giving entrance to a serpent when I encour- aged Mr. Philip Ireton's visits. He knew the report of your engagement; he knew better than to seek your favor. My child, be counseled by   Richard Ireton.     447 me. It is not too late; Curran will forgive everything. You accuse him of not being in love with you; he has a fortune of his own, and he will have all I shall leave at my decease; why, then, should he wish to marry you?" "He will marry some other woman and be happy, " said Anna, gently. I He could not have loved me; he never would. Now that I have told you all, dear Madame, forgive me, and let us part as friends." "You will mnarry Ireton," said Madam'e Cur- ran, angrily. "How can you excuse this step to yourself; you, who have just told me you made some insane vow to spend your life -in searching out your brother's murderer, at last marry this murderer's brother and bestow Landerdale's for- tune upon your husband to enrich his murder- erl's family?" "I1 marry an innocent man," said Anna, "who had no part in his brother's crime, but who suf- fered from it in his fortune and his peace. I, too, wickedly refused him my hand because of the odium of his name, but I have grown wiser since yesterday. Last night, William came to me. I saw him as plainly as I see you, and all my doubts upon the course I am about to follow are at an end. God has been merciful, most merciful to me, in closing the years of sorrow I have known  and opening before me a useful, happy life." "You talk like a brain - sick girl," said Mad-   "8      Richard Ireton. ame Curran, rising. "Our dreams often take their color from the desires of our hearts. So, for a dream, you will reject a good husband and expose the friends who have given you a home for more than six years to gossip and scandal." "I shall never forget your kindness to me, Madame Curran," said Anna, turning away to hide the tears which fell from her eyes. "Where-. ever I may go and whatever may be my lot, I shall pray that God will send his choicest bless- ings upon you and give you a daughter as faithful as I would have been, to watch over your declining years." Mistress Arthur Pentheive was in her dress- inug-room. engaged in the perusal of a letter which seemed to throw her into a state of deep perplexity; twice she read it through, and then she roused her husband, who was dozing on a couch at her elbow, to give her his opinion. Master Arthur Pentheive had set up his goods and chattels in a hired house, and had been installed, by Sir David's influence, in the office Ireton had resigned, an event which had given rise to the story that his fortune had proved little more than sufficient on his accession to it to cover the debts formed in the fast days of his bachelorhood, a story which could not be directly traced to Lady Pentheive, but which did originate with her disappointed ladyship.   Richard Ireton.      4-49 "Read this, Arthur," but she still kept the paper in her hand. "It is a letter purporting to be written by Mistress Anna Ferrars, asking me to give her hospitality and entertainment for such time as she may stand in need of it. She has broken off her engagement with Mr. Curran Avery suddenly and feels delicacy in remaining in his mother's house in the- unpleasant circumstan- ces in which they are placed. You know this lady's history, Arthur; I am one of the last per- sons to whom she would make such an applica- tion, or give such a confidence. She must have lost her reason! I heard long ago she was thought to be bordering on insanity." ' s The letter must have been misdirected," said Arthur Pentheive. "I saw Mistress. Ferrars :}'esterday in Madame Curran's carriage. She was looking very sad, but sensible enough. She is a very comely young woman." "You may be right," said Alice, "but the handwriting of the superscription is the same as the handwriting of the lady of the letter." She threw it down. "Here is Philip - are you go- ing, Arthur?" but her husband had already disappeared, and she received her brother alone. It was their first meeting since Philip's return from his mournful journey; he had come to ask his sister's countenance and welcome for his brother's widow, who needed all the kindness her relatives could show her in her forlorn situation.   450   -ichard Ireton. "I can not ask Arthur for money," said Alice. "He would not give it to me if I did. You know I brought him nothing.'" "My means and will are both ample for my poor sister- in - law's support," said Philip, a hot -flush suffusing his brow. "I ask only the coun- tenance and support which one woman may be expected to give to' another of her own, age. Lucy has claims upon us not only as Richard's widow, but through her near relationship to us and her early adoption in our family." "I can not see her at present," said Alice, hastily. "Her appearance here among us may call up the whole wretched story. I hope she means to keep herself as secluded as she can. It would have been much better, Philip, if you had let her remain where you found her. Rich- ard must have left some property with the in- come he had." ' I should have known you better, Alice," said Philip. "I might have known your heart was not worth an appeal." "I only talk and act with common sense," retorted his sister. She fidgeted in the-awkward pause. She was momentarily expecting her husband's appearance, and Philip, who had quietly seated himself, showed no disposition to go. "I received a singular letter this morning," she said, taking up Anna Ferrars's note in her   Richard Ireton.      451 embarrassment. "You remember William Lan- derdale's sister? She has written me to ask me to receive her at my house. I never spoke with her but once, that was a few days ago at a din- ner- party. I think her brain has been upset by her trouble." Philip snatched the letter from his sister's hand and ran his eyes eagerly over it. The fair writer, looking upon every person immediately connected with her lover through the natural delusion of the affections, invested Philip's sister with qualities she was far from possessing, believing her to stand in the relation of a confi- dant who knew his secret and must sympathize in his disappointment and  rejection. Anna knew that Philip had provided for his sisters in the ruin of his family fortunes up to the date of their prosperous marriages, with which she was well acquainted, and her mistake was natural. Philip read the letter twice before he put it down. "I have a confidence to give you, Alice," he said, with a relieved and grateful look. "This lady is not a stranger to me, as she seems to be to you. She has long been the object of my deep- est and strongest love. She has refused my suit, but her mind has now changed in my favor. You will do me the kindness to receive her as your guest, as she willdat an early day, become my wife."   452-      Richard lreton. "I congratulate you, Philip,"  said Alice, recovering her breath. "Mistress Ferrars will bring you-a fortune!"  v "I care nothing for the fortune," said Philip. ' What a mortification for Mr. Curran," said Alice, turning to another side of the picture. "Lady Pentheive says he is the vainest man liv- ing. Her ladyship will be perfectly happy when she gets this bit of gossip into her possession."   CHAPTER XXXVII. PHLIP was right in his fears of the character of the welcome which waited Ax his sister-in -law in the home to which he brought her. Madame Ireton heard the tidings of her son's death with sorrowful resig- nation and found tender consolation in the knowl- edge that so noble an end had closed his wasted and perverted life. She meant to meet with kindness and sympathy the desolate beings he had left behind him, but the cold pressure of her hand ard the frigid salutation of her lips could not have been colder if the embrace had been given to the low, gray stone, which, fifty miles away, kept watch over Richard's grave. Lucy was weary and sad; her nerves were shaken by the sorrow she had undergone; the dimly lighted hall with its flagged floor, the stately figure of Madame Ireton in her widow's cap, brought before her the lonely years of her girlhood in her aunt's house, when only one had sought her out with /kindness; kindness a hundredfold repaid by the long and faithful years she had given him. Breaking from her   454       Richard Ireton. aunt, she burst into tears, and hurried across the hall, leading Marie by the hand, leaving Philip to excuse her abrupt departure as well as he could, while she retired to the sanctuary of the room prepared for her, to which she was shown by a servant. "Lucy was always a creature of impulse," said Madame Ireton, stiffly. "I hoped her years of married life would have brought her self- possession and dignity. But her French na- ture will never be eradicated. It's in her blood." Philip was right in believing his mother and Lucy would not get on together. Mistress Pentheive could not have wished her sister -in - law to -practice a closer seclusion than she took voluntarily upon herself. She spent nearly all her time in her chamber, busied in sewing and embroidery and in giving lessons to Marie, to whom she taught the flexible language of her own native land, much to the dissatisfac- tion of her mother - in - law, who tried in vain to trace a family likeness or trait of the Iretons in Richard's child. Lucy's only pleasures were an occasional walk, for air and exercise,- when her steps generally turned on the common, where a flock of grazing cows made a pretty show in the scene, as did the leaving vines and heaps of flowers clothing the rough sides of what is now Beacon hill, covered   JRichard Ireton.     455 with stately dwellings,-and Master Wylie's visits, who came without ceremony, as his near relationship permitted. To Master Wylie she could talk of the past; he had known the hus- band for whom her heart was still heavy with sorrowful regrets; he remembered the cabin in the woods where she had spent six happy years, as she now believed them to have been, in look- ing back; he had been by her side in the hour of her greatest trial, and he had been a kind and generous friend to the man who, dying, had left a debt she had no means to repay. Marie, too, was fond of Mr. Wylie; she liked him better than her stately grandmother for whom she felt only fear, which was not removed whep that lady condescended to unbend from her stateliness and take some pains to cultivate her good opinion. She knew that Madame did not love her mother ; she knew very well that Master Wylie did; and the child who placed her first affections on the mother who had now no object but herself on whom to fix her own, bestowed her second regards in a nearly impartial manner between her kind Uncle Philip and her mother's friend. We will leave them here ; the spring is deepen- ing into the blooming summer which will finish Colonel Forsyth's second and last victorious cam- paign against the Indians, and is clothing the lonely grave, which, Lucy often sees in her dreams, with daisies and thick-springing grass, to   456      Richard Ireton. turn back to Mr. Curran whom we left on the eve of a great disappointment. Lady Pentheive has said Mr. Curran is one of the vainest men living, and nothing can be more painful to a man of this character than to be rejected at the foot of the altar by the woman everybody knows he is about to marry. Master Curran went in search of his mother, but when he found her, he received no comfort. She had just parted with Anna Ferrars, and was gazing gloomily at the rich stuffs bought for the wedding that was never to be, which lay scat-- tered about in their several papers. Anna had left them out in her hurried packing, fom a su- perstitious fear of ill luck if she should take them with her. "You have no one to blame but yourself, Cur- ran," said his mother. "Mistress Ferrars has left this house. She will never return to it. Her trunks have followed her. If -you had shown her the attentions which almost any other man would have shown to a woman of-so much excellence, this would not have hap- pened." Master Curran saw no assistance could come from this quarter, and retreated to his library. He felt unfit for society, or, even, to face his partner, Wylie, who would be in possession of the story before night - fall, and enjoy a hearty laugh at his expense.   Richard Ireton.     457 , Who would have thought of her doing such a thing?" mused Mr. Curran; "she, with- her rigid notions and piety. Lady Pentheive will, hear of it; with what good will she will set it going. I shall blow my brains out I I won't bear it! - no, I think poison will be better. It will elude detection." / *  *  /.   CHAPTER XXXVIII. WAY was preparing, for Master Curran, out of his difficulties. In a calmer frame of mind, he would not have ac- cepted it. Mr. Curran did not appear at lunch; his mother presided in solitary state at her table. At the seven o'clock hour of dinner, he emerged- from his library, but the meal passed in unbro- ken silence. When it was ended, and Madame Curran had made her son's coffee at the side- table, a servant came to tell her Jeffrys begged a few words with her in her dressing - room. Madame Curran found Miss Ferrars's maid waiting her. "I have a favor to ask of you, Madame," she began, with an air of embarrassment. "I have left my mistress' service. Will you permit me to remain in your house until I can hear from my friends? I shall be glad to make myself use- ful to you.  I can embroider and do fine sewing." Madame Curran hesitated. "6 You have left your mistress?" she repeated. "I took my dismissal, Madame," replied Jeff- rys. ;"I have hopes of returning to my father's house. I left it because he was vexed with my   Richard Ireton.     459 religious ways. But I should have stayed with my lady if things had n't turned "- "Very well, Jeffrys," Madame Curran hast- ened to say. "I know you are a discreet young woman. You can remain in my house until you are settled to your satisfaction." "She is superior to the common class of wait- ing-maids," Madame Curran thought; "she seems to be discreet, and well bred." She did not dream that similar reflections would arise in the mind- of her son before the evening should be gone, coupled with others drawn out by the unfortunate predicament in which he was placed. Jeffrys knocked at the door of Mr. Curran's library an hour later. She had a letter in her hand. "May I ask a favor of you, Sir.?" she said, respectfully. "It is to post this letter for me when the next vessel sails." Mr. Curran took the letter and observed with surprise the person who  presented it. "I thought you had gone with your mistress, Jeff- rys?" he remarked. "I have no mistress, Sir;" she replied. "I never served any lady but Anna F-errars; now I am going back to Hampshire to live in my own father's house. The people I and my poor ,mother belonged to,"--she trembled a little at the recollection this sentence brought up of her first meeting with Mr. Curran, which we remem- ber took place in his character of magistr e,   "O      RKichard Ireton. "were persecuted at home and here. My father joined in the general abuse and turned us from his doors. Now, things have so changed, I hope he will receive me back." Anna Jeffrys had never taken violently to her sect except on the one occasion which had pro- cured her arrest and brought so much trouble to Lucy, who certainly had the now ignored claim of being regarded as her mistress prior to Miss Ferrars. She did not even use the " thee " and "thou " of her people in her intercourse out- side her sect; she had little of the stuff of which martyrs are made; she was a pretty, young womnal, with a natural longing for the pomps and vanities of the worldj and, in Mr Curran's eyes, she had always been more agreeable than her mistress. A purpose which would never have entered his mind in any other circumstan- ces than those in which he now stood flashed upon him. He held the letter in his hand. "Anna,:' he said,-" come in and shut the door." The girl obeyed him, with hesitation. "I think you had best give up this plan of going back to England," he said, in a persua: sive voice. "If you will take my advice, you will give it up, and make up your mind for some- thing better." "I'm a gentlewoman by birth and breed- ing, Sir," said Jeffrys; :" only misfortune could have brought me to take service, If my father   Richard Ireton.      461 will receive me, I shall go home ; there 's nothing better I can do." , Why not marry?   asked Mr. Curran. "' You are a very handsome young woman." "Those I would aspire to would n't be likely to stoop to me, Sir," said Jeffrys, looking down. "&What do you say to me, Anna?" asked Curran. "If you will marry me, I will have the -bans spoken to-morrow,-  when you know they were to have been spoken for somebody else,- and our marriage shall follow without loss of time. "I am in sober earnest," he persisted, taking her hand, and trying to re- assure her. I I have always admired you, but you were discreet and kept me at a distance. My mother will be angry, of course, but when it is over, she will make the best of it." Mr. Curran paced his library, drawing a sigh of relief a few minutes later, in the conviction that he had worked a way out of his perplexities. His mesalliance might make a nine days' gossip, but nobody need- know he had taken to it in a fit of desperation ; he would take good care his attentions in public to his bride should confirm his story that he had fallen in love with the young lady while she was with Miss Ferrars in the capacity of a companion; and that his fiance had resented his penchant and left his house in consequence.   CHAPTER   XXXIX.   .HE late New England spring had deep- ened into summer, and summer into au- tumn; the anniversary of Richard Ire- ton's death had come and gone, and 'November was scattering sere leaves over the ground. Lucy Ireton's spirits, were reviving from the heaviness of her early grief, and Mad- ame Ireton saw the bloom returning to her daughter - in - law's cheek, and the smiles to her lips, and began to entertain plans which she ventured one day to impart to her. "It is a pity your life should wear away in seclusion, Lucy," she began. "Alice was speak- ing of it yesterday." (Mistress Pentheive had expressed on this occasion a wish that Richard's widow was settled at a distance from them.) "You are still young, and very lovely. I may have done wrong in keeping from you a letter your father wrote to me a few years after your marriage. He was desirous of having you return to him. I have no doubt he will now be glad to receive you and your child. As the daughter of a French nobleman, you will, of course, be presented at court, and make a brilliant fortune. A hot glow reddened Lucy's cheeks. Twice   Richard Ireton.      463 she essayed to speak; her voice failed her. She rose abruptly and left the room. Madame Ireton followed her with a contempt- uous glance. She cordially disliked everything that was French; she believed all French women were immoral or capricious by nature; this was the secret of her dislike to her amiable niece, who had grown up in her house, and whose future she had sacrificed by giving her to her son. Lucy proceeded to Philip's room, where he was sorting letters and papers. He suspended his employment to hear her errand. "I have been too long dependent upon your bounty, Philip," she began. "If my father could be made acquainted with my circumstan- ces, I am sure he would not allow me and my child to be indebted to you. I shall write to him at once." "Some one has been talking to you, my dear sister," said Philip. "You should have con- sideration for my mother. She is an aged woman, and it is natural her feeble body should affect her mind. She thinks your birth and beauty entitle you to a brilliant future." "It is best I should go away," said Lucy, coldly. "You see very little of what I have to bear, Philip. My father is generous. He will make provision for me, and this burden will be taken off your hands."- "I shall not allow you to take this course,   "4      Richard Ireton. Lucy," said Philip. "If your father should be- come acquainted with what is past, he would use arguments to persuade you to return to him. This step would bring you much unhappiness and sorrow. I grant your' trials are many, little as I may be supposed to know of them. But I promise you a better day is at hand. I am about to give you a sister who will unite with me in doing all in her power to make you happy." "You speak of Anna Ferrars," said Lucy. "I can not forget the vindictive purpose with which she followed Richard. Friendship, or sympathy, between us would be unnatural." "You wrong her," said Philip. "Her heart is tender to all - who have suffered, and most of all to you. You will know and love her; she will be a sister to you in very deed and truth." Lucy rose with an incredulous smile. "Come, Marie, your uncle is busy with his papers," she said to the child whose face appeared framed in the door - way. "We will not intrude upon him." Philip looked after his visitors with ' sigh. He had scarcely reseated himself to his work when another interruption took place. Mr. Wyhe was shown in. He came to confide a lov- er's hopes and fears to his cousin, and to ask him to break his proposals to his sister - in - law. "You must see Lucy and tell her what you have told me," said Philip. "It is so difficult," said Wylie. "Madame Ireton has been married, and her heart may still   Richard -Iretorn.     465 be buried, in the  grave of her husband." :' I wish you success in your suit," said Philip. "You will cherish Lucy as she deserves; she has never received from our family the kindness her noble qualities merit. Her marriage with Rich-- ard was a piece of inexcusable cruelty." He quitted the room, leaving Mr. Wylie to his reflectiong. Soon Lucy came to meet him with her usual friendly welcome. - She had been weep- ing in her chamber; she had bathed her eyes in perfumed water to remove the traces of her tears. Mr. Wyhe was regarded by his friends as a model of courteous bearing; he held no secret in his bosom which could lead him to shrink from meeting the eyes of any human being, but his self -possession forsook him on this occasion; he stammered a few common-place words and walked away to a window. "You are in trouble, Master Wylie," said Lucy. 4 It is Philip you wish to see. I have come here by mistake. I will send him to you." Mr. Wylie-gently reseated her. "/will inake you my confidant, Lucy," he- s  . "I have suddenly discovered that I have Iformed an at- tachment for a young and beautiful woman." The blood left Lucy's cheeks; her heart seemed to stop  beating. She regarded Mr. Wylie as her only friend. If he was about to marry, he would henceforth be less to her; -she began to see how her thoughts and interests were interwoven with him.    *    .       .   "6      Richard Ireton. "I hope you will be happy," she said. "It is not settled," said her friend. "The woman I love has been once a wife; her heart may still be buried in her husband's grave?" "You have been kind to ine, Mr. Wylie," Lucy stammered, in her embarrassment. "You have been kind to Marie." Her downcast eyes shyly took in his face and attitude as he stood before her. Not thus- in this tremulousness of fear and hope --had Rich- ard Ireton wooed her on that day he had asked her to share his lot of exile and sorrow. "The man who marries me will take to his home the widow and child of a man stained with a great crime," she said. "That is not worth a thought," said Wylie, clasping her hand, and covering it with kisses. "It shall be the first care of my life to make you happy!" and he kept his word. Mr. Wylie's marriage was satisfactory to his aunt, and very pleasing to his bride's relatives, who'had never expected such a piece of good fortune for poor Richard's widow, if we except Philip. It must have been a shock to another person, who had told Lucy his resentment should follow her so that not a spot in the land should give her shelter from the infamy of her husband's crime, and we have no doubt Mr. Curran's part- ner felt much'pleasure in announcing his ap- proaching marriage to him.      
         
       
   
