
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The Montgomerys .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7272
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE MONTGOMERYS. 
               A TALE DRAWN FROM REAL LIFE. 
             
            IN PRESS, AND TO BE PUBLISHED NOVEMBER 20, 1856. 
            
               BUFFALO: 
               WANZER, McKIM & CO.
             
            1856. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1856, by WANZER, McKIM & CO., In the Clerk's office of the District Court for the Northern District of New York. 
            
               CHAS. E. FELTON, STEREOTYPER, BUFFALO, N. Y.
             
          
       
      
         
            The Montgomerys 
             
            THE MONTGOMERYS. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Hark! The warning tone 
                           Deepens-its word is Death!
                            
                        
                      
                     -HEMANS. 
                   
                
               THE morning of the 24th of December, 183-, was, in Philadelphia, ushered in by wind, sleet, and gloom. All the night long had the tempest raged, unmindful of the houseless wanderer exposed to its rude blast, or of the weary watcher who shuddered at the sound of its dismal yell; but, as a broken heart, maddened at its own anguish, it howled forth its woe, careless of how the sound might stir the listener's heart. 
               In the beautiful home of Mr. Elwood Montgomery, every thing was in keeping with this gloomy morn, which followed so wild a night. There, through the wearisome, dark hours, had lain the wife and mother, writhing in that physical agony which, but for the hope-the mother's hope-would be past human endurance. 
               And oh! the sufferings of those who loved her as such! (as such a woman must be loved,) who can imagine them? That proud, doting husband-who had so often smiled when he looked upon his strong arm, because it could shield her, his best beloved, from life's rough storms-now trembled but to gaze on that convulsed face and form. The half-suppressed groan which would sometimes escape those deathlike lips went, as a dagger, to the heart of those who heard it; for they knew that naught but the keenest anguish could so far overcome her self-control. Even the kind, hopeful Dr. Graham trembled for the issue, as he saw that fragile form quivering in its helplessness, as an aspen leaf. 
               In a room far away from the sick-chamber was Mary, the only daughter and youngest child of the household. Through these tedious hours of anxious suspense, she had kept herself within her own room; for she had found her tearful pleadings with her father, Dr. Graham, and even the kind old Margaret herself, of no avail; for they would none of them consent to having the young girl of sixteen take her place by the mother's bedside in such an hour as this. So, shut within her own room, she had waited-at one moment, listening to the hurried tread of those who passed and repassed to and from the sick-chamber; and the next, walking hurriedly to and fro, her face almost distorted with anxiety, and her cheek blanched to Death's pallor. 
               It was after this dreary night and the following equally dreary day, that the poor child, worn out with watching, exhausted with anxiety, sank overpowered upon a low couch. Twilight was gathering around; but it was all one to Mary-day or night, light or darkness-till she could be again permitted to stand by the bedside of her beautiful, loved mother. She thought not of its being the anniversary of that eve which had ever brought to her so much joy. There was no brightening of her child-face at the remembrance of the many beautiful presents which had ever made more joyous each return of the Merry Christmas time! Her whole soul was too full of fear for any other thought to have place; and each moment she felt the little hope which lingered there, dwindling lower and lower. 
               Childhood is full of smiles and tears; and so of our whole lives, for when we arrive at what we are pleased to call maturer years, how often are we made to feel that we are but children of a larger growth. But who does not remember when the first dark sorrow came hovering around, each moment approaching nearer and nearer-at first dimming and then shutting out entirely that sunny sky which had never before been overcast with clouds? And, oh! if that sorrow be that darkest, deepest-if the angel Death come, and with his cold lips press the brow of her who gave us birth, who has from her own blood nourished so freely our baby forms; upon whose bosom our heads have been pillowed with that tenderness which is unsurpassed-then is it indeed a bitter first sorrow! 
               Although Mary Montgomery was so young-scarcely more than a child in years-yet had there, for weeks, a fearful apprehension haunted her brain; for she knew that the trial which nature was now making upon her mother's strength was one which might well shake a strong woman; and, as the time had approached for the consummation of their hopes or fears, she had felt as though a dark cloud was gathering around her; and now, as it was ready to burst upon her head, she shrank with dread from meeting it-for something whispered her, it would leave her heart desolate! 
               Thus, for an hour, had she lain half stupefied with dread. The twilight had deepened into that black darkness without, which is so true a type of the night of sorrow which sometimes comes to the soul, when, for a time, even the star of hope is obscured; and within, her room was rendered still more sombre by the occasional flashes which the smouldering bitumen sent dancing, in phantom forms, upon the walls. Just then, the door was softly opened, and the lamp from the hall sent in a line of clear light, revealing in the intruder the most elegant form of a young girl, who for a moment hesitated, that her eyes might become accustomed to the darkness, and then, with an elastic tread which the velvety carpet answered not with a sound, she hastened across the room to the couch upon which the outlines of Mary's form were visible. The poor girl started not, until a hand was laid upon her forehead most caressingly; then a shiver ran through her slight frame, for she needed not to look up to know whose was that gentle touch upon her brow;-and, oh! the dread of speaking to one she loved in this hour of doubt and fear! 
               Helen Ashland understood all this: she well knew that the gay, willful spirit of her cousin could not yield to sorrow, as could one of a more pensive, melancholy nature; but she understood, too, how to open that stricken one's heart, to receive sympathy from those it held most dear. Pressing her lips to the poor girl's pallid cheek, she said, in a voice so full of affection: 
               "Dearest Mary, I have been away so long a time! I found mother in such a miserable, nervous state, and alone and desolate as she is, duty compelled me to stay till she fell asleep. Then I did not lose one moment,, but leaving her in Nora's care I hastened here. Have you been alone all this long day?" 
               "Alone!" was the reply; "oh, so alone!" and then starting up and clasping her hands to her forehead, she exclaimed, "Nellie, my head is bursting with this fiery pain: this moment I must go to my mother! Do not prevent me!" she pleaded, as her companion put her detaining arm about her. 
                
               "Do not keep me longer in this fearful suspense! Hark! I hear her groaning! yes, she is dying! I know she is-and I, her only daughter, not at her side!" 
               As she said this, she sprang wildly towards the door, and would have rushed out, had not her companion prevented her. 
               "What is this, my poor Mary, what do you feel-tell your Nellie, what do you hear?" 
               But the frantic girl struggled violently, and but for the superior strength of Helen Ashland would have escaped from the room. 
               With the tenderness and firmness of a mother, the noble girl raised the little sufferer in her arms, and laid her back upon the couch; then, with her soothing tones, she quieted her ravings; and, with her cool, soft hand, she bathed the burning brow, till the fire, which seemed raging there, was quenched. From the more quiet breathing of the stricken one, Helen thought she might with safety leave her, for a moment, to procure a light; and when she returned, she was surprised to find Mary sitting up-all marks of her monetary delirium gone from her pale, sad face, and her hands busy with putting up her disarranged hair, which had fallen over her shoulders. 
               "I am going to mother, Nellie," she said, in a sad but firm tone, as her companion approached her. "I can no longer be kept from my right-my duty. They fear my weakness. They are right, I have been weak; but I will be so no longer. I will not, as a feeble child, shrink from witnessing the agony which she must endure, when my firmness and careful watching may comfort her-may, perhaps, soothe her anguish." 
               As she paused, Helen seated herself beside the earnest girl, and, drawing her head down, so that it should rest upon her bosom, she said, "But your father, Mary, and Dr. Graham, too, have again and again refused you admittance to that room. Do you think they will yield more readily now, when they see your face so haggard and pale? No, no, Mary, it is better- 
               "Better!" exclaimed Mary, passionately; "Nellie, if you would not bring back that awful pain to my poor head-if you would not drive me to distraction-say not another word! Who should stand by the suffering mother, if not her only daughter? If you or I, Nellie, lay upon a bed of sickness, think you any human power could keep mamma from her suffering child? No, I am sure not! and now, whoever may oppose me, I must go to her; for something whispers me she is dying! But she must not-I cannot let her-my love shall hold her from the grave!" and again her face became distorted with anguish. Helen saw that she must not oppose her cousin. There was that in her child-face that awed and astonished her. One twenty-four hours of suffering had wrought in the poor child such a change, that the beholder could scarcely believe her the same, whose merry, unrestrained laugh had made glad music in that home. The light of happiness had flown, and left that thin, sallow face, with its gray eyes, so disproportionately large, almost frightful to look upon. 
               With all the strength which she could call to her aid, it was feebly that she arose to go to her mother. But her cousin was at her side. "Lean upon me, Mary," said the noble girl; "lean upon me heavily, dear, so-" and she half carried the trembling child with her substantial arm. Silently, and as rapidly as Mary's strength would allow, they passed through the hall; and, before they reached the door, her step had become comparatively firm with resolution and excitement. Helen paused to rap for admission sion; but Mary's "hush!" and her detaining hand, prevented her. 
               "I must go in, whether they will or not!" she said; but just as her hand was upon the lock, the confusion within arrested her movement, and then a moan-feeble, but so full of agony that it was distinctly audible above everything else-fell upon her ear. For an instant, she staggered; and, but for the upholding arm of her companion, she would have fallen to the floor. The perspiration came thick upon her cold brow and hands, and Helen's alarm was becoming most intense, when another sound reached the ear of the sinking girl, and passed as an electric shock through her whole frame. It was the low wail of an infant. In a moment, she was upon her feet; and, quickly as a thought, the door was opened, and the two girls stood within the sick-chamber. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
                
                  
                      
                        Lay the babe upon my bosom, let me feel its sweet, warm breath, 
                        For a strange chill o'er me passes, and I know that it is death. 
                        I would gaze upon the treasure, scarcely given, ere I go,- 
                        Feel its little dimpled fingers wander o'er my cheek of snow. 
                     
                   
                
               THERE they stood-Mary's eyes riveted upon the bed where lay her mother; but that loved face was hid from her view by her father, who pillowed the head of his wife upon his bosom. 
               In a moment, everything had been hushed, and Dr. Graham was bending over the sufferer, holding one of her hands in his. They were waiting for-yes, that deadly silence could be caused only by the expectation of that angel which so desolates our homes! At length, the sick woman moved her head, and, in a voice so sweetly sad, and yet so feeble, said, "Ellwood, where are you, dearest?" 
               "Here, Alice," he answered; "you are lying in my arms. Do you not see me, darling?" 
               "Yes, now: but I am dying, my husband. You must soon be without your Alice, who has loved you second only to her God. But I leave you our children to love, and to love you. Our children, Ellwood! Even in this bitter hour of parting, that thought gives me exquisite joy. For my sake, as well as for your own and theirs, be to them tender and forgiving, as would I have been, had God spared my life" And then, as if she feared this charge might contain a reproach, she added quickly, "I know you will be all that a noble man and true father can be." 
               For a moment her head sank lower, and her eyes closed; then, again arousing herself, she said, hastily, "Our daughter-our loving Mary-may I not see her once more, Ellwood? And Nellie, too, dear as my own child?" 
               The two girls, who, until this moment, had not moved, gave Mr. Montgomery no time to answer; but, gliding to the bedside, Mary laid her face down by the side of her mother's, which already wore the hue of death, and, in a voice so loaded with sorrow that it might have stirred a heart of stone, she said, "Here, mamma, is your poor child!" 
               Oh, the agony of a mother in such an hour as this! Her child-who has never committed a fault but the atonement of tears has been poured out upon her bosom-so tender and forgiving! There, joys and sorrows have alike found a willing ear. Now, when life-real life-is about to open to that timid but hopeful one-to think and know that no longer can her care, so untiring, surround her child, but alone and uncomforted, she must shed those silent, bitter tears, so surely a part of woman's destiny! 
               At first, the struggle was almost too much for the dying woman; but at length she regained her power of speaking: "Nellie," she said, reaching her weak, trembling hand toward the fair girl, who stood gazing upon her more than mother, with a face full of the most inexpressible sadness, "come closer to me, my darling; lay your beautiful head upon this bosom once more. How often has it lain here, child of my sister Helen! You are not less dear to me than my own Mary. 
               "Now, listen to me, my daughters," she continued in a firmer tone, and her face brightened with a light which seemed scarcely earthly: "I am going away from you; life is fast gliding beyond my grasp. But you will not forget all that I have striven, though weakly perhaps, to teach you. It is with much confidence that I leave you to each other, for you have both learned, I hope, where to go for comfort. I will not charge you to be ever mindful of the comfort of your father, your uncle. Your loving hearts will prompt you to the performance of those thousand little acts which lie within woman's reach, and which are so grateful to the sorrowing, world-wearied spirit! 
               "But now listen, Helen," said the dying woman, laying her hand upon the bowed head of the kneeling girl; "your home must still be beneath this roof, when I am gone. Oh! how much must my dear one look to you for comfort. But listen, my child, while this mother's heart cries out to you for one of its cherished ones! I leave my George-my high-spirited, wayward boy-to you! He was my first-born, Nellie; and oh, how this heart clings around him! The others are equally dear; but they were his lips that first called me by that beautiful name. 'Mother!'-the sweetest music that ever fell upon woman's ear. And oh! around it cluster life's brightest joys. I know what you are to him; and when I am gone, your hand must more than ever smooth his brow when in trouble-your gentle firmness must check his turbulent spirit; and, sometimes, Nellie, talk to him of me-of Heaven-of God-so may he be brought to look to the true Comforter in the sorrows which life must bring to such as he. 
               "This will be to him a bitter trial; for his heart is full of love for me. For a time he will be inconsolable; but time and your sympathy will soften and subdue his grief. You must be his earthly comforter, and your unwavering Christian influence must lead him to that fountain of all good, through which we hope for happiness beyond this world. To you, Helen, I leave this boy-my first-born, one of my heart's jewels!" 
               For a moment her eyes closed, and both hands rested upon that bowed head. It seemed as if she was leaving there her heart's benediction and strength. And then she resumed in a more feeble voice, "As to my other boy-my gentle-spirited Orlando-for him, I have no fear; he will weep, but, in his grief, he will comfort you all! Tell him-tell both my beautiful boys, their mother talked of them with her last breath-that her last heart-throbs were for them, her heart's jewels! Oh, may they be kept untarnished from the world! 
               "And now, my husband, call Margaret quickly; for I would look once upon my babes before I go; I know my time has almost come!" 
               The faithful old nurse was at her side, and in those same strong arms which had fondled so tenderly the mother in her infancy, she bore the two new-born babes! Fearfully she laid the tiny son and daughter by the dying mother's side. "Oh! my babes can never know how great was their mother's love, that made even Death stand aside till their little lives were safe! With this one first and last kiss upon their innocent lips, I give them to you, Mary! Be to them a mother, as well as elder sister! Look upon them as a dying mother's legacy-a sacred trust-and, my daughter, should they prove wayward-as they often may-should they perplex your head and heart-remember that they are motherless, and blame them gently; for to you, only, can they look for a mother's love! Margaret, take them away now, and be to them faithful, as you have been to their mother. May Heaven bless you and them!" 
               As she said this, a spasm passed over her deathlike face-her heart was almost torn asunder, as link by link she felt the chain severed which bound her to life. Suddenly she rallies! not one friend could she forget, even in this hour of agony. Turning her eyes upon Dr. Graham, who still kept his place at her side, she extended toward him her hand, and in the most plaintive tone, she said: "How can I better repay my obligation to you, kindest and best of friends, than by doubling it! Be to my husband-my family-full of care and truth, as you have ever been. In this last trial, tongue can not tell how consoling has been your presence, how sweet your words of hope; but now I feel that all will soon be over! Is not my hand growing cold, Dr. Graham?" 
               He pressed her hand between his own, as if to warm it; but made no other reply, for the cold dampness which was there, told him too plainly of the rapid approach of Death! 
               "I knew it was so," whispered the dying woman; "do not fear to tell me, for I am growing stronger in spirit! Hold me closer, Ellwood-closer-closer, dearest; for I am growing cold! Breathe upon my cheeks, for they are icy! My children, Ellwood, my dear husband! oh, how this parting wrings my heart! Farewell! farewell!" 
               There was one struggle, and all was still-that stillness which weighs upon the brain as a mountain load! Then Mary arose, and, looking once upon that face, she gave one low wail, so full of agony it could only come from a breaking heart; and, in her despair, she threw herself wildly upon that mother's bosom, her child-arms encircling that maternal form. Again, the dying woman's features were convulsed with life; again those transparent lids quivered as if about to unclose, and then a smile, so full of heavenly love and hope, settled upon that face, and all was hushed! This life, for that pure womanly spirit, was over. Though the wail of her stricken child had power for one moment to detain the mother's departing spirit, yet Death had lost all its terrors, and, with a smile which left that marble face most beautiful to look upon, the soul had gone to God who gave it. 
               So kindly did Dr. Graham unclasp the little hands of the insensibly Mary, and as tenderly as had she been his own child did he bear her in his arms to her own chamber, and with a woman's gentleness laid her upon her bed. As he threw back the heavy, brown hair, which had fallen around her as a veil, the light fell upon her still face, and one might well believe, from the tranquil pallor which rested there, that, in its anguish, the spirit had parted from its frail companion, the body. 
               "Poor child," said Dr. Graham, musingly, as he bent over her, looking down into her sad, young face; "the unclouded joyousness of thy life is over; the fate of the motherless is before thee; happy would it be for thee, if that sensitive heart were, indeed, stilled forever!" 
               A tight grasp upon his arm aroused him from his reverie; and,-turning quickly, he found Helen Ashland standing at his side. Her bloodless lips were parted, and her large blue eyes, now almost wild with terror, were fixed upon the face of her cousin, so still and deathlike. He took that little hand, which was grasping his arm so convulsively, between his own. 
               "What is this, my poor child; what do you fear?" he asked hurriedly. "This is but a fainting-fit, from which she will soon recover-too soon," he continued, as he saw life returning to that terrified face; "too soon for her poor breaking heart." For a moment, the revulsion of feeling was almost too much for even Helen's strength, and she leaned heavily upon the arm which encircled her so like a father's. 
               After watching that face, till the look of frozen terror had left it, and in its place came such a look of abandoned sadness, the doctor said in such a deep, earnest voice: "Nellie, arouse yourself, my child; 'tis not for you to wear such a face as that. You are strong, and now, more than ever, you must be an elder sister to this little, suffering, motherless one; for, weakly sensitive as she is, grief will not kill her! you must be more than sister, Nellie. All-every thing that you have found in her mother-you must now supply to the sorrowing daughter! Yes, my child, I understand what means that look! Your grief needs no words; but I tell you, Helen Ashland, you are strong, and you must forget your own sorrow, for the sake of the child of her who made place for you in her heart and home, when Death had made you an orphan! Will you not show me, Nellie, how truly brave can be a girl of eighteen years-how she can always remember others and never herself?" As he said this, the doctor held her two little hands in his strong, manly ones; and his steady gaze into that changing face, into those deep, thoughtful eyes, seemed to impart strength to the half-shrinking mourner. 
               In a moment, she seemed to have lost sight of the present, and the future of which her companion had been speaking-the future, so full of work-was before her! Not until a moment after Dr. Graham had ceased speaking, did she reply; and then, her half whispered "I will try to be all you would have me," was as nothing, to the expression of firm resolve in that beautiful, young face. But it told, too, of a strong heart wrestling with a great grief! Even the sympathizing doctor dreamed not of the struggle that was going on in that poor child's breast-the second time made an orphan!-but he saw all he wished for in that noble face. 
               "Yes, yes," said he to himself, "I am not to be disappointed: my ward will be all her dead parents could have wished-all that I have dared to hope. Such a beautiful mingling of sensibility and strength!" Then, arousing himself from his reverie, he said: "Will you promise me one thing, Helen? if in future this brave head or heart should be in doubt or trouble, will you not come to me for counsel, aid, or sympathy? Old as I am, lonely, and, as some may think me, half misanthrophic, I have still a heart which can feel-oh, how deeply!-for the child of Helen Wilson! And now, since there is none to claim as a right the place of protector, may I not be father to the child of her I loved more than life?" 
               This last was said almost passionately; but he went on in a calmer tone, but so full of sympathy and affection: "Do you promise me, Nellie, to confide in me, to tell me, unreservedly, all the joys and griefs that may stir your heart, that I may laugh or weep with you? Remember, my child, the bosom upon which you have from infancy leaned-into which you have poured the secrets and sorrows of your girlhood-is now cold and still forever! Now may not I, who loved your mother as I loved my own soul, be to you, her only child-guardian-aye, more than that, confidant-father, even?" 
               As Helen gazed into Dr. Graham's face, and listened to these words, as they came so freely, so unrestrainedly, from his lips, she almost forgot her grief, in her admiration for the man before her. There she saw love, so chastened by sorrow that not a shadow of earthly passion marred its beauty. The young girl read in a moment the heart's secret of that mature man. A secret the world had never dreamed of; and artless as she was, untaught in the world's tactics, she reverenced, next to God, the noble man who had remained so true to his first and only love. 
               Unhesitatingly she gave him the promise he asked; for could she not trust him who had been so faithful to that mother of whom she had not even a baby recollection. 
               Silently they now both turned their attention to the insensible Mary, into whose checks the tide of life was again flowing. Dreadful was her awakening from this deep insensibility-at first, like coming out of a fearful dream; and then the truth, so dark she would gladly have shut her mind against receiving it, forced itself upon her. 
               Who that has mourned, knows not of the despair which follows the first awakening from sleep after a great grief? Then it is that the brain is almost maddened by its anguish. It is worse than useless to attempt a description of the despairing mind; for add black midnight to Egyptian darkness, and it were bright sunlight, compared to the darkness of the hopeless soul, in the bitter first night of sorrow. 
               For poor Mary there now seemed no consolation, and her companions made no attempts at comforting. She uttered no complaint; but the low moan which occasionally escaped her lips, told more than could any lamentation, loud and long. 
               Dr. Graham knew enough of human nature and human suffering to understand how words would but agitate more fearfully, when they brought to the suffering one's mind the assurance that now a stranger must speak comfort to the poor distracted child, instead of that angel mother, whose voice, so gentle and loving, had ever before responded to her daughter's smallest complaint. 
               As he watched her-where she lay upon her pillow, so still, her eyes closed, and her face altogether wearing that expression of perfect exhaustion and despair-he saw that rest alone could restore her strength enough to weep. 
               So nervous was she that every sound, even the lightest footfall, brought a spasm of pain to that sorrow-stricken child-face; and he judged rightly, that solitude would now be better for her than anything else. Telling Helen to prepare her cousin for retiring, he went to mix a soothing draught; and after she had been carefully arranged in her bed by Helen's sisterly hand, he gave it her without a word, and, bidding Helen Ashland join him in the sitting-room as soon as she had finished the arrangements in her cousin's chamber, he walked silently away. 
               So absorbed had he become with his own thoughts, as he tramped to and fro through the dimly lighted apartment, that Helen's languid step failed to arouse him, and she stood some moments leaning against the mantlepiece ere he observed her; then, with an exclamation of surprise, he seated her tenderly in an arm-chair before the grate. 
               "Strange that I did not hear you, Helen, when it was of you I was thinking." She half smiled in answer, and the doctor guessed rightly, that she scarce heard his remark, or had comprehended naught of it, save the kindly tone in which it was uttered; but he went on, after seating himself beside her: "Nellie, you will not disturb Mary again to night; there will be a time when your sisterly sympathy will be most sweet to her, but not yet; if any one should go near her to-night, let it be old Margaret. Her motherly fondling and caresses may make the poor child weep, and so relieve her distracted brain and bursting heart. And now, my child, you must have some rest; those cheeks have lost their roses;-and now that you are my girl, I shall take good care that you do n't make yourself sick." Dr. Graham had arisen while speaking, and was now bending over his companion; but she, by no word, look, or movement, manifested having heard him. Her head was bowed upon her hand, and her face, half concealed by the shadow, spoke volumes of sadness. 
               Dr Graham bent lower, and smoothed back her hair most caressingly from her beautiful forehead. Anxiously he watched the workings of that young face. 
               "Did you hear what I said to you, Nellie? There will be much for you to do to-morrow. All will look to you for comfort and help; and only a good night's rest can make you fit for the work." 
               A mingled expression of sorrow and impatience passed over the young face. "How can you talk to me of rest-sleep-Dr. Graham? Oh! you know not the desolation of the twice-orphaned child!" 
               As she said this, she stretched her hands back, wearily, over her head, as if she would relieve an aching void. 
               "I can not know all you suffer," said the doctor, in an earnest but unsteady voice; "but, Helen, it is because I know that you loved your aunt, because you looked upon her with all the tenderness and devotion of a daughter, and, that her memory will be sweet to you as the memory of her who gave you birth, that I ask of you to be to hers, what you alone can be! You, Helen, know better than any one else, what this home has lost: you, who have tasted the bitterness of having a stranger fill that place from whence Death stole the household angel. From this experience you have become strong; and now, though your heart be bursting with agony, you must not yield to it as would a weaker spirit." 
               Poor Helen uttered a low cry, which seemed wrung from her very soul. She felt this was too much, for had this blow taken from her every one she loved, earth could not have been more desolate; and yet she could not be allowed the luxury of despair. 
               "My poor Nellie," said Dr. Graham, passing his arm around her, "look up in my face, my child. Now tell me, will you be brave and strong, forgetting your own griefs, for the sake of those who are bound to you by the tenderest of all ties-for the sake of the poor, motherless Mary; and listen, Nellie, for the sake of George!" The doctor spoke this in such a voice of compassionate command, that the half-despairing girl felt she must not yield to that load which seemed weighing her down; and now she thought, "Oh, had I some one to aid me!" 
               Yet that earnest look of strength, which ever rested in the doctor's kind eyes, seemed to pass into the young girl's soul that moment. She could not speak-to have told her companion by words all that she would strive to do, would have been quite impossible. Yet, in that womanly face, he read all he wished to know of her soul-that the strong will would triumph over even this storm of sorrow. She gave her hands to him as a good-night, for a something in her throat would not let her speak. How encouraging was the warm good-night pressure those little hands received-how grateful the fatherly kiss which the good doctor pressed upon her fair brow, as he led her, with all the gallantry and gentleness of his younger days, to the door. 
               A father's voice could not have expressed a more deep affection than did his, in that so much needed benediction of "God strengthen you, my child." Was it that, or the earnest and humble prayer of the nearly crushed spirit which secured that peace and strength of mind which ended in a slumber sweet as an infant's? Who can tell? But the soul that has been stricken, and yet knows not the consolation, the strength, to be derived from prayer, knows not that satisfaction which comes from the remembrance of a praying friend-one whose supplications go up to the true fountain of all strength and love continually for the spirit submerged in sorrow-such an one, oh, how must we pity the desolation! Might not angels weep to witness the anguish and darkness of such a soul? 
               As Helen passed out of the door and through the hall, Dr. Graham watched her, till an angle in the passage concealed her from view; then he turned back into the sitting-room; and, seating himself in the chair she had left vacant, he bowed his head upon his hand, and for a long time seemed wrapped in a troubled reflection. "Poor child, poor child!" he murmured aloud, "why do I feel such painful forebodings for thee, when I know thy strength? That very strength troubles me-and such beauty too, and thy guardian angel gone. This is a stormy world for such an honest, upright soul; and who can tell how many trials await thee. I almost wish that thou wert feeble, or that I was indeed thy father, then how jealously would I shield thee from every uncongenial breath. But no, it may not be; every supporting arm is withdrawn; and others look to thee for that strengthening and consoling which thy own heart so much craves. Only heavenly aid is left thee." He arose, and walked up and down the room, slowly and thoughtfully; then he stopped before the grate, and looked into the smouldering embers, as if he would there read the destiny of some loved one. "Yes, yes," he said, at length, putting his hand to his brow, as if he would remove some load which weighed heavily there, "it must be so; this discipline of sorrow which commenced when she was but a child, must be to prepare her for some work-some great work. Such a mind was not created for selfish ease, nor would it be content with it; for only the feeble in spirit delight in hugging themselves. My Helen in heaven, hear me! It shall be the one great object of my life, to watch over thy own beautiful, orphaned child; and should her feet stumble or grow weary in the rough and thorny path which is before her, oh, how tenderly will these arms bear her up!" With this resolve, the noble man prepared for his departure from that house, in which sorrow held now so large a place. 
               After a visit to death's chamber, and one look in upon old Margaret, watching so tenderly her infant charge, to whom he gave a kindly word of sympathy and encouragement, he drew his warm cloak around him, and passed out from that house of mourning into the still, solemn midnight. 
               Instead of the storm which had been raging for the last many hours, everything was hushed, and the stars shone down brightly and coldly on all beneath. Just then, the bells rang out their merry Christmas chime, and for the first time he remembered it was Christmas Eve, the time when the whole world must rejoice-even they who are in deep affliction must lift their thankful, thought-stricken hearts to heaven, for the hope which is given them through the birth of a Saviour-the hope of meeting their "loved and lost," in a land where parting shall be no more. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           And lo! she had changed; in a few short hours 
                           Her bouquet had become a garland of flowers, 
                           That she held in her outstretched hand, and flung 
                           This way and that, as she dancing, swung, 
                           In the fullness of grace and womanly pride, 
                           That told me she soon was to be a bride; 
                           Yet then, when expecting her happiest day, 
                           In the same sweet voice I heard her say: 
                           "Passing away! passing away!" 
                        
                      
                     -WHITTIER. 
                   
                
               HELEN Wilson and Alice Hawley were cousins by birth; but circumstances most painful had made them foster-sisters. The latter had no remembrance of the child-mother who purchased the life of her babe with her own, which had been so short and joyous; and of her father she knew little more. 
               Young, and full of animal life and hope, Charles Hawley found it a most bitter awakening from his radiant dream of happiness, when the lovely, frail flower he had treasured so fondly was snatched from his arms. But one short year had he pillowed that sunny head upon his bosom, and now, at the moment when he thought his cup of happiness was to be made doubly sweet, it was dashed from his lips and shattered into a thousand fragments. He was inconsolable at his loss; and when at last the grave closed over his child-wife, he felt that there was but one tie which made life endurable rable-the love which he bore the babe of his lost Alice. For weeks, his sole employment and only consolation was to fondle that tiny daughter, and trace in its baby face resemblance to his "loved and lost." But his passionate, untamed nature, could not long endure such inaction. Daily a morbid melancholy was growing upon him, which was undermining his health; and it took but a word from anxious friends to decide him to seek diversion, or, at least, distraction from his griefs, in travel. 
               With a most provident care, he arranged his pecuniary affairs, so, should any misfortune overtake him in a foreign land, the worldly wants of his daughter would be provided for amply; and then, clasping the fair babe, Alice, in his arms, again and again, he laid her upon the bosom of his only sister, bidding her to be to the helpless one a sister, for his sake, and a mother, for the sake of the beautiful mother in heaven-he bade farewell to his home, turning his back upon his native land, forever. 
               Mrs. Wilson's arms encircled the motherless child as tenderly as had it been her own; and her daughter, but a few months Alice's senior, shared with her little cousin the maternal food. Mirthfully would she crow out her joyousness, when the orphaned one took her place upon the mother's bosom; and, in their cradle-bed, she seemed to assume the right of protecting, which her superior physical strength by nature gave her. 
               It was beautiful to see her round, dimpled arm, ever embracing the infant Alice, who, though in perfect health, had inherited much of the frailty of her young mother; and, baby as she was, she nestled most confidingly in the arms of her infant companion. 
               Thus, for five years, they grew together with but one thing to ever mar their childish happiness. 
                
               Mr. and Mrs. Wilson expected the time would come, and, perhaps, very soon, when the little shoot, which had been engrafted into their affections, would be claimed by its parent; and so, constantly they had endeavored to hold it as a treasure in trust. To the little ones, they often talked of the stranger-papa, who would, some day, come for his little Alice, and take her, perhaps, far away from them. 
               The child's large, brown eyes, would wear such a dreamy look, when they told her of this, and she would ask so many strange questions of her far off father and dead mother, that her adoptive parents could but clasp her to their bosoms in silence. But the high spirited, passionate Helen would weep pitiously at the thought of such a separation, and, throwing her arms about her wondering companion, she would tell, how closely she would hold her, that the strange man should not take her away. Then all would so soon be forgotten by the happy children, and their voices would ring out as merrily as had childhood naught but sunshine. 
               So five years passed. Occasionally they heard from the wanderer in a foreign land-heard of his restless roaming through forests, over wild mountains, and across desert sands; and then all tidings of him ceased. Day after day, week after week, month after month, passed, and yet they waited hopefully for something further-but no tidings came. Then Mr. and Mrs. Wilson began to turn their eyes sorrowfully upon the little one, whom they now feared was wholly orphaned. Day after day, they felt the little pensive one working her way, deeper, and deeper, into their hearts, which now opened freely to receive her; and at last they felt she was as dear to them as their own frolicsome Helen. When finally Mrs. Wilson was compelled to give up the last lingering hope, how many sad hours did she spend weeping for her only dearly loved brother. Often would she picture to herself his last moments, when a stranger hand supplied his wants; and a stranger voice answered to his dying call. Or, perhaps, more desolate still, alone and in agony, unattended and uncared for, the spirit, so full of love, parted from its frail, suffering companion. Gradually her grief softened down into a more tender devotion for the child, in whose fair face she could every day see more and more of the lost brother and father developed. Thus, for two years they said nothing of their fears to the little one; yet her pensive spirit caught the sadness of their tones, and whenever she asked them of her "dear papa," her voice was subdued to a whisper. 
               The child knew not why her mirth should be hushed when she spoke of that parent; yet something had whispered her baby heart, that sadness clustered around the very thought of that loved one. 
               Seven years had she been a member of this fond family, and for two years they had heard nothing of the wandering father. 
               One day Mrs. Wilson called the child from her playful companion, and taking her tenderly in her arms, she told her now she should never leave them; that Helen should be her sister, and Helen's parents should be her parents. There was no brightening of her child-face at this; and with a sad earnestness she looked at her aunt, and asked if her "darling papa" would be there, too! and when her aunt told her so gently that he had gone to her mamma in heaven, where she would sometime see them both, if she was always good;-oh, how the little orphaned one wept upon that bosom, which felt for her all that a mother's could. So silently she wept; yet the heavy sobs told how the little heart was wounded. Hour after hour did she lay nestling in that tender embrace, uttering not a complaining word; and at last she was still, save an occasional sob, which would come up from her little heart which had been so fearfully agitated. 
               Little Helen heard, with a heart bound of joy, that Alice was now all their own; but her quick, sympathising eye caught the sorrowful look of her favorite, and she gave no expression to her gladness; but when she saw her grieving more deeply than she had ever grieved before, how quietly she crawled upon the sofa, and nestled at her mother's side, her little fingers caressing so tenderly the beautiful head of her cousin, till at last, with this unusual quietness, her head fell upon her mother's arm, and she sank into a most peaceful child-slumber. 
               After this, all went on quietly and lovingly. Alice was too young for grief to crush her child-heart-and, save a little more sadness in her beautiful, dreamy eyes, and perhaps an increased pathos in that bird-like voice, she was the same as before. Had it been possible, Helen would have been gayer than ever; for now there no longer hovered over her that dread fear of losing her beloved companion and playfellow. 
               In spirit and temperament, the two girls were entire opposites; and while Helen's gaiety would sometimes win her reflective cousin from her beautiful dreams, Alice's pensive face and manner would soften, and often hush her half-boisterous companion. 
               So they passed from childhood to girlhood; from girlhood to womanhood, joyous and happy-full of moral health and strength; for the woman who had made the care of her family the business of her life, was no less a mother to the child of her adoption than to the one nature had given her. Few, few, indeed, understand the necessities of the human heart as did Mrs. Wilson, and day after day did she labor most patiently and prayerfully, to prepare her daughters for the work, which, as women, must lie before them. 
               Thus, hand in hand, these two girls pursued their studies as well as amusements; and when, at twenty years of age, their teachers were dismissed, and society so gladly opened its ranks to receive them in, seldom had two more attractive girls moved in the fashionable and unsurpassed circles of Philadelphia. 
               Each seemed to heighten the attraction and beauty of the other; for while the merry voice of Helen rang out most merrily, drawing around her crowds of admirers who delighted in listening to her well-timed and good-natured wit, the cheerful but more reflective Alice made all feel how great a gem was an intelligent, well-educated woman; and no one listened to her unsurpassed conversation with a more proud delight than did her fun-loving cousin. 
               Among the suitors who looked with almost devotion upon Alice Hawley was Ellwood Montgomery, a young man, and a lawyer, who was rising rapidly in his profession. 
               He was all that one could ask-fine looking, intelligent, and devoted; besides, what to both Alice and her foster-parents was of first importance, and without which everything else would have been as nothing, unwavering in principle. 
               Six months after Alice had first entered the gay whirl of society, with the full approbation of Mr. and Mrs. Wilson, she had pledged to Ellwood Montgomery her hand, and with it she felt she could give her heart-her life. Oh! what hours of happiness were those to the young, dreamy girl; for there was that, in her proud, sober lover, which made her feel that she could lean with the most unreserved confidence upon his strong arm. 
                
               And Helen, the proud, joyous Helen, had found she too had a heart large enough for the frank, whole-souled Henry Ashland. Her parents, might have wished for their fun-loving child a husband less yielding where he loved;-but he was well worthy the affections which had been bestowed upon him, and the happiness of their child, whose whole life had been one steady expansion of sunshine, forbade their opposing the union, even by a look. 
               And now Mrs. Wilson, the true mother, had her most trying year's work before her. To feel that the two lovely girls, who had, from their earliest infancy, looked to her for counsel and sympathy, in joy and in sorrow, must so soon look to those comparatively strangers-so soon others would have the keeping of their happiness-so soon they, so free, so hopeful, and so confiding, might find this new path strewn thickly with thorns-all these thoughts and forebodings came into her mind, and made her heart heavy with care. But it was not hers to repine, while there was still work for her to do; but to prepare, to the best of her ability, her children for the voyage which lay before them, that, through no neglect of hers, should they make ship-wreck of their happiness. 
               Beautiful, thrice beautiful, is it to see the truly devoted mother sending back the tear unasked, which, for a moment, glistened in her eye-pressing down the heavy sob which is rising in her throat, as, with a "God bless you," she gives her daughter to the arms of him who has sworn to love, guard, and cherish her as his own soul. Never is woman more lovely, save when she pillows her first-born upon her bosom. 
               As the time approached for yielding up their treasures, it was with trembling hope and earnest prayer that Mr. and Mrs. Wilson glanced at the unknown future of their darlings; yet they would hope that, instead of losing their household jewels, they were about adding to them: for the year which the two lovers had been welcome guests at the home of their loved ones had convinced the parents that, although they were not without their faults, still were they possessed of rare virtues; and, with their devotion to the two fair beings they had chosen from all the world, might there not be more of joy than sorrow in that, as yet, untrodden way? 
               In Helen, this new life of love had made a great change. Still, she was so joyous, and her voice, so full of melody, made glad music, as she wandered through that old home of her childhood; yet there was a something of sadness in it, that brought a tear to every listener's eye, when happy smiles wreathed her lips-a something which said she was going away from what she had loved so fondly there-was leaving all for one, oh, how dear! And when a warning voice within her asked so solemnly, "Should sorrow come and hush thy silvery laugh and dim thy radiant eye; should sickness pale thy cheek, or care weave silvery threads amid that soft brown hair; will he, thy chosen one, still be true to thee?" her true heart of love echoed, "Still true to me!" She had given her all so unreservedly to him, and, had he not given her his love in return, how truly beggared she must have been! But it was all her own, and she felt it so. 
               Alice, too, was changed. She had never looked on life as so bright a thing as had her companion-how could she, orphaned as she was?-and, though her foster parents were dear to her-seemed to lose her as their own child-yet, in her solitary hours, her heart would heave a sigh, a tear would dim her eye, when she remembered that, in all this wide world, there was not one heart beating for her which nature had designed as a protector. 
               But now, how different! She could feel that, in all this world, there was none so dear to her proud and noble lover as she; and her heart bounded with pride and joy, as she looked forward to the time when, before the world, she should give her all into the keeping of that man she so wholly trusted. Oh! could we see woman oftener bestow such trusting love upon a man worthy of it, might we not hope for more real domestic happiness in this world of ours? In such a case, though sorrow may come and cast a dark shadow over life's path, still, love will lighten the way, and bind closer hearts true and trusting. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
                
                  
                      
                        Bride and bridegroom, pilgrims of life, henceforward to travel together, 
                        In this, the beginning of your journey, neglect not the favor of Heaven: 
                        Let the day of hopes fulfilled be blessed by many prayers, 
                        And at eventide, kneel ye together, that your joy be not unhallowed. 
                     
                      
                        Oh, Death! what art thou? antitype of Nature's marvels- 
                        The seed, and dormant chrysalis, bursting into energy and glory- 
                        Thou calm, safe anchorage for the shattered hulls of men- 
                        Thou spot of gelid shade, after the hot, broad desert- 
                        Thou silent waiting-hall, where Adam meeteth with his children- 
                        How full of dread-how full of hope, loometh inevitable Death! 
                        Of dread, for all have sinned; of hope, for One hath saved. 
                     
                   
                
               GAILY passed this double wedding. It was a family affair. Not the most fashionable, but dearest and best-loved friends were there, to sympathize in that joy which had, mingled with it, so much of sorrow, or, rather, sadness; for those parents could not, for one moment, forget that this was the closing up of that uninterrupted confidence, which had ever existed between them and the two lovely beings which now stood before them in all the pride of most beauteous brides. 
               'T is not strange that a mother should weep, when she sees her daughter wedded to one, however noble, who must bear her from that home which has known her since first those eyes were opened upon this world; and he who could be offended by such tears is not worthy the treasure which is being given to his keeping. Let him, in pride, aye, in selfishness, kiss away the answering drops from the eyes of his bride; for only the fondly affectionate daughter can make a truly loving wife. 
               Mrs. Wilson did weep, when she kissed her daughters, and would have wished them joy, but for the heavy sobs which swelled her throat; and Helen, ever so full of joy, now clung to her mother's bosom, trembling as a frightened bird. They were Henry Ashland's hands that unclasped her clinging arms, and drew her so gently to his side; and, as she leaned upon him so trustingly, he thought her more beautiful than he had ever before beheld her, and that night, with her kneeling at his side, he thanked heaven that they had such a mother. 
               Alice, ever accustomed to controlling her emotions, brushed quickly away the tear which escaped from her soft brown eyes, and her newly made husband was not more proud of this manifestation of feeling than was he of such self-command in one so young. It pleased his dignity of character, and he thought. "Such is the woman I would have stand at my side-would have for my companion-would see at the head of my house." 
               There was one thing that gave Mrs. Wilson great contentment in yielding up the happiness of her two children to the keeping of those who now had a better claim to them than she. They were men who not only believed in, but professed the Christian Religion, and peacefully would she have rested that night, could she have heard the earnest but humble prayers that were offered up to heaven by each newly-wed pair. 
               Beautiful and most interesting were the two homes where these newly-made wives entered upon the dignity of house-keeping. Well were they prepared for this new position, and each found the care of her husband's home a delight, rather than a burden. 
               Neither of the young men had wealth, but each found himself able to place his wife in a home with all the comforts and many of the luxuries of life; and the good profession of the one, as well as the fine business position of the other, promised rich success in life. 
               At last, when all was settled, and Mr. and Mrs. Wilson were left in their dear old family mansion alone, how wearily did the hours begin to hang! Morning, noon, and night, they missed those two dear faces from their board; and the merry young voices, which for twenty-one years had rung through their old halls, made glad music in other homes. To leave that roof, which had sheltered them so kindly in life's happiest and saddest hours, they felt would be impossible; yet, how could they stay there, and their light gone? At last, Henry Ashland listened to the pleadings of his loving Helen, who could not endure to see those dear faces so sad, so expressive of loneliness, and almost reluctantly he left that little bowery home, where, with his fair young wife, he had felt such sweet contentment-left it for one of elegance, where the hand of taste and refinement had, for many years, been busy in adorning it within and without. To his satisfaction, he very soon found that it was she he best loved, who had made all so full of sunshine, and, with the happiness he felt they were bestowing upon her parents, he could not regret the change. 
               And now four years glided swiftly away with their light and shadow, and they left in the home of Ellwood Montgomery two bright, laughing boys. Maternity had a thousand times heightened the beauty of Alice, who looked upon the father of her children with a deeper and holier love, than did she upon the proud and devoted bridegroom: and the gaiety of our joyous Helen was subdued into a matronly cheerfulness, when she pressed an infant daughter to her bosom. 
               What golden links were those little lives in the domestic chain! so pure-so strong-they bound a thousand times closer, loving hearts. 
               Strange it seemed, that so long this family circle had remained unbroken; but now, unseen and unsuspected, save by one, the destroyer was making his way among them. Mrs. Wilson's life of labor was done, and gradually she was sinking into the grave. But so gradual was her decline, that those who loved her so fondly, watched over her so carefully, failed to see her danger, until just as that life seemed flickering in the socket. They knew she had ever been frail; yet, how many years, with her cheek almost as pale as now, had she toiled unceasingly for others; and now, when all were watching to make smooth her downward way, it was strange she could faint and die. Yet so it was; and she shrank not from the approaching end: for she felt, that, with God's help, she had done faithfully her work, and, through His redeeming love, she possessed a hope which lighted her path even beyond the tomb. Beautiful as the eve of an autumnal day, was the closing up of that useful life; and the hearts which bled with anguish hushed their grief, that they might not disturb the placidity of that lovely spirit in its last earthly communion. 
               To Mrs. Ashland this was a stunning blow. Day after day she pined over it, as helplessly as an infant would pine over the loss of the breast which gave it nourishment. So sadly would she smile, when her friends most dear would strive to win her from her grief, half-forgetting their present sorrow, in their fear of an added one. But it was of no avail. So cloudless had been her whole life, that now the first adverse wind chilled her loving heart, and not even the bright sun of affection could warm it into life again. 
               Dr. Graham, who was called, hesitated long ere he could believe it possible that that beautiful woman, wife, and mother, but a day since so full of life and hope, must, indeed, die. But when he saw her fading-as a fair, frail flower, over which a rude tempest had passed-he told her, as gently as would a brother, the sad truth. 
               As he held her hand in his own, and talked to her of death, a tear-drop fell upon it; and so feelingly did she thank him for his tenderness toward her! 
               Oh! she read not the secret which was treasured up so jealously in that manly heart. She dreamed not of the hopes for long years cherished, and then, in a moment, crushed, and now dead forever! Ever had she admired him, and in their home, since her marriage, as before, he had been a welcome visitor, and to her husband he was an honorable friend. 
               The love which he had from boyhood borne, and which he still bore, the woman who had been won by another, was not of that gross and selfish kind which shines upon a pure, beautiful being, but to blast it; but it was that noble, unselfish affection which purifies and elevates wherever it may exist, and which will shield its object from every wrong, though life itself must be the sacrifice. Alone he wept, when that joyous life he had so zealously guarded went out. To Mr. Ashland, he could speak no words of comfort; but to Mr. Wilson-the widowed and childless old man, whom sorrow had shaken more than years-his sympathy was most gratifying. Hour after hour, would he listen most patiently to the old man's half-childish childish and half-manly tales of his younger days, (for now he seemed to live only in the past,) the time when the wife he now mourned was a young bride, and then he would brighten as he told of the coming of that little life, which, for twenty-five years, was to him as a bright ray of sunlight; and then following through scene after scene, he would seem to be living over again those bright days of joy, till at last, coming suddenly upon the closing up scene, he would startle from his waking dream, and his grief would burst out anew-doubly violent that it had been for one moment forgotten in the remembrance of the joys of the past! Silently-almost tearlessly, did Mr. Ashland bear his bereavement! Save when he looked upon his infant daughter-the fair child, who with her mother's name, had inherited much of her beauty-he seldom wept. The loving prattle of this innocent one would sometimes move him to tears, and so relieve the agony of his overburdened heart. Young, even, as he was, life seemed to him burdensome; and he looked with almost envy upon the old man at his side, who seemed tottering upon the very verge of life. 
               Day after day did Mrs. Montgomery go to this house of mourning, with her gentle presence and ever-thoughtful acts, to make less desolate those dear ones, who mourned as seldom man mourns; and then, with the infant Helen, now six months old, she divided the maternal food which belonged to her infant son. 
               Little did Mrs. Wilson-the noble, unselfish woman-think, when long, long years before she was fostering the orphaned infant of her brother-that she was casting bread upon the waters, which should thus return to hers. 
               Fondly would the babe cling to the tender woman, and after putting it away again and again, each time yielding, motherlike, to its baby pleadings for one more kiss-one more caress-she would have to leave it with its half-grieved and half-pouting face, to its doting grandfather, who, childlike as he was becoming, would forget every thing in his fondness for that grandchild. Occasionally, by Mr. Ashland's reluctant consent, Margaret, the faithful creature who had fondled Mrs. Montgomery when an infant, and who now watched over these two wild boys with a fondness unsurpassed even by the mother-occasionally, this kind old woman would take the little Helen to spend the day with the Montgomerys, when the three children would become so gay and happy in their amusements, always aided by the faithful nurse, and generally watched carefully by the doting old grandfather, who followed the little one wherever she might be taken. 
               It was on one of these evenings, when Mr. Ashland came, as was his custom, for his little Helen, that he found the two children of his friends tumbling and rolling upon the carpet, their wild laugh ringing through the nursery, as each in his turn would come upon the top, while the old grandfather sitting in an easy-chair near, amused himself by aiding first the one and then the other in their getting up or tumbling down. And then, nestled in the arms of Mrs. Montgomery, her little face half hid upon that motherly bosom, was his own little daughter; while seated just beside her, his arm half encircling the form of his wife, was Mr. Montgomery. 
               Mr. Ashland saw at a glance that he had interrupted a conversation between husband and wife, and from the sadness of their faces when they greeted him with a brotherly and sisterly kindness, he guessed that he or his was the subject of it. Little Helen raised her baby head, and crowed out her delight at seeing her father; but when he reached out his arms to take her, she clasped her own little dimpled ones about the neck of her aunty, and hid her sunny face upon that bosom which had pillowed her head so gently while she slept. The sadness deepened upon the father's face, as he saw the child of his lost wife turn from him and cling to the bosom of another. He seated himself in a chair which stood near, and bowed his head upon his hand. 
               Both Mr. and Mrs. Montgomery forbore speaking, for they saw that this simple and natural act of the inoffensive babe had stirred strangely the heart of their brother-how deeply, even they, with all their sympathy, could not guess. 
               After a moment, the bereaved man again bent over his child, and passing his hand so carefully over its sunny head, he said, "Poor papa! Little Nellie, his own little daughter, does not love him-will not give him one kiss!" Young as she was, the sorrow in the tone, the sadness in the face, spoke to her little sympathizing heart, and in a moment she raised her little face to her father's, and clasped her soft arms about his neck. Oh, how much of the dead mother did he see in that, act of sympathy and self-sacrifice! Silently he pressed her to his heart, and his tears fell upon her fair head. Her little dimpled hand was laid upon that cheek now stamped by sorrow, and its gentle pressure, so full of tenderness, spake comfort to his heart. For a long time they sat thus, when at last Mr. Montgomery said, in answer to a pleading look from his wife: "Henry, Alice and I were talking of that little sensitive babe, when you came in. I know it may seem to you almost cruel-the thought of depriving you of what may be considered your last earthly comfort; but do you not know, brother, as much as you are away from home, she is left too much to the care of servants, who, if they have the will have not the ability to train her as you would have-as Helen would wish her-trained. They know nothing of that discipline of heart and mind which should commence in these early months of infancy, and which will be so necessary to the motherless girl." 
               "I know all this," was Mr. Ashland's unhesitating reply; "I have thought of it most anxiously for many days: but what am I to do? To put her out to nurse is little better; for women who receive motherless babes for hire, are scarcely superior, in mind or morals, to my own servants." 
               "But if Alice would take her," said Mr. Montgomery, much relieved by his friend's calm consideration of the matter, "what would you say to that? Our own babe takes up much of her time; but they are so nearly of an age, and Margaret so faithful, I think Orlando might get on, if he were to spare a half of his mother's attention to his little cousin. I did object to it at first, on account of my wife's health; but she has overruled all my arguments which oppose her wishes, and I yield to her, without further opposition. In her care, it seems to me, Helen will be happy and content; for in her, I am sure, she will find as true a mother as do her own children." 
               It was not in words, that Mr. Ashland thanked his friends for this unexpected kindness-a kindness which none could know how to value better than did he, a tender and devoted father. Before he left, it was arranged, that the next day the little one should come to them to remain for the present. As Mr. Ashland arose to leave, Mrs. Montgomery followed him to the door. 
               "Henry," she said, "you must never allow a day to pass, that you do not come to us; for you can never imagine how much even an infant may long for the love of those who are nearest to them, as kin. Her first remembrances brances must be of her father; for none, save those who have borne it, dream of the sadness of the orphan's heart. She is a child who must love ardently, and, would we see her happy, we must love her fondly: for, with all our care, there will be hours when she will feel that she is motherless." 
               To Mr. Wilson, this trial was even greater than to Mr. Ashland. The mind of the latter was somewhat absorbed by business, while the old man? so alone, felt it was taking from him a ray of sunlight-that last one;-and he brooded over it so mournfully that it gave his friends great anxiety. At last, by the continued persuasion of his adopted daughter and her husband, he came to spend the greater part of his time with them, often coming at early morning, and, for a whole day, sporting with or sympathizing in their sports, as gaily as any of the infant ones. 
               For a year, nothing transpired to vary the quiet and happiness of the children, and every day the little motherless Nellie was growing dearer to every member of the Montgomery family. 
               Then came a rumor to the ears of Mr. and Mrs. Montgomery, that the father of the little one was about to take to his home and his heart one to fill the place of her he loved and mourned. They would have rejoiced at such a prospect, had the woman of his choice been worthy of him, or had there been even a hope that she would make his home any thing but purgatory to him; but they refused to believe it possible that he who had ever loved the noble-looking and noble-hearted, Helen Wilson, could possibly find aught to attract him in the dark, artful Flora Darlington. 
               But soon they found it too true, for, hard as it was, Henry Ashland would confide in the woman who had been to him a sister, and to his child a mother. When he told her of this-when he talked of another woman filling the place of the mother of little Nellie-he wept as had his grief been a new one; but home and heart were desolate; he was deprived of the society of his child; and another year, passed as had been the last, he felt would be more than he could endure. 
               Then he told Alice of her he had chosen-of her gentleness, her beauty, her sympathy, and, above all, of her love for him. She, too, had suffered. She had loved, and lost the object of her love. She was a mother to a boy, whom, in her fondness, she would talk of, till all listeners loved him. 
               Alice saw at once how worse than useless would it be to tell him all she knew. So entirely was he infatuated by the strangely fascinating woman, that any attempt to undeceive him would but make him cling to her the more closely; and so the words died upon the anxious woman's lips. With pain, both she and her husband looked forward to the future of their friend; for they saw how bitter must be his disappointment and self-condemnation, when he should awaken from the sleep into which he had been charmed. 
               From her childhood, Alice had known Flora Darlington-known her, to fear and dread her. That selfish, intriguing spirit, which had overruled all good in her heart, were there any good to overrule, had made her shunned and disliked, even when a child. But, as her dark, selfish childhood passed away, and her meagre form rounded into womanhood, her dark, thin face became strangely charming, and it seemed, from the smile that played about her small, beautiful mouth, that she was changed, too, in spirit. But this was only in seeming; yet some believed this possible, that the selfish, ill-tempered, arrogant child had become the gentle, kind woman. So believed James Darlington, who married her when she was but eighteen years of age. The failure of his father shortly after showed to the deluded his mistake; for, day and night, the disappointed woman heaped upon her husband that bitter scorn which could alone come from such an imperious nature. The consequence was what might have been expected. Repulsed by her he had loved, disappointed in his prospects of wealth, his feeble spirit naturally sought forgetfulness where, too often, the sons of the wealthy make shipwreck of their souls and bodies. Night after night found him in that hellish den, where man soberly and deliberately lays his plans, whereby he may doubly murder his fellow man; and when he returned to his home-oftentimes not until the stars began to wane-his unsteady gait, his haggard face and bloodshot eyes, told to his loathing wife, how had passed the long, dark hours. 
               So rapidly did he pursue this downward way, that never but once did he pause to think or look about him. Then, what did he see? 
               When, for the first time, he looked upon his infant son, for a moment the little good which lingered in his weak heart seemed to revive; but all was darkness about him. When he would have pressed to his bosom the mother of his child, with a bitter smile she repulsed him, and pointed him to the "drunkard's beggared son." Never again did he remain away from the intoxicating cup, long enough to allow mind, for one moment, to hold her sway; but madly he went down, and, when his son was one year old, the father filled the inebriate's grave. 
               Not many tears did the widow of twenty years of age shed over the grave of her husband-the father of her child. Her heart was embittered towards him, and she felt a relief when she gazed upon him lying quietly sleeping that sleep which shall know no waking till the last trump shall sound. 
               From the ruined fortune which she had loved and wedded, a meagre competence was settled upon the unhappy woman and her son; and, hastily, arranging everything, with her child, she left the scene of her disappointment and chagrin. Her own family had learned never to oppose her, and the family of her dead husband were only too glad to be rid of one who had been to them the cause of so much unhappiness, and whom they felt they had such strong grounds for disliking. Before the death of their poor, ruined James, they had tried every means to get the control of the little one in their own hands; but the miserable husband and father still held within his bosom the vestige of a ruined heart-that heart which had once loved, aye, worshipped the heartless being who could look upon, his last agony without a tear-and he would not take from her their child. It was to the home of a brother in the North that she went, and for seven long years, the circle in which she had shone so brilliantly, and from which she passed in such deep disappointment, heard not of her. 
               Then she came among them again, more strongly beautiful than before. It was then, at the house of a mutual friend, that Mr. Ashland met her; and, from the moment of their introduction, her whole mind-her every thought was bent upon one thing, to win him for herself; for that beautiful home had strong attractions for her. Little had Henry Ashland learned of woman's artfulness from his ingenuous Helen. He fondly dreamed that the darkened hearth-stone was again to be made glad with light, and that his lovely daughter would find a mother in his beautiful tiful, dark wife, and in her son, whom he had not yet seen, as he was still with his northern friends, a play-fellow and brother. It made his heart happy, that he could make, for the son of her he loved, a home, and he was all impatience to have him sent for, that, altogether they should enter into that home circle, where love would rekindle the light of happiness. But the reply which Mrs. Darlington received from her brother to this home summons was, she said, they could not so suddenly give up one they had come to love as their own, and a few weeks, at least, must be given them to prepare for a separation which must be so painful. 
               Henry Ashland's heart was touched by this; and, although he could urge no further the immediate presence of the boy, he was more than ever anxious to have him with them. Bright, indeed, were his dreams. Alas! that they are doomed so soon to vanish before a reality, so cold, so heartless! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           If thou hast crushed a flower, 
                           The root may not be blighted; 
                           If thou hast quenched a lamp, 
                           Once more it may be lighted! 
                           But on thy harp, or on thy lute, 
                           The string which thou hast broken, 
                           Shall never in sweet sounds again 
                           Give to thy touch a token! 
                        
                      
                     -HEMANS. 
                   
                
               JUST two years after the death of Helen Ashland, another woman had taken her name and place. The "loved and lost" was not forgotten by Henry Ashland; indeed, when for one moment he was out from under the influence of those glorious dark eyes of his charmer, his face would become unspeakably sad, and before he was aware or it, he would be asking himself, "What would Nellie say? would she be content to trust the happiness of her husband-her child, with her I have chosen?" Then the hand of his enchanter would arouse him, and in tones so soft and almost sorrowful would she reprove him, in a moment he was again all her own. 
               It was but the second day after Mrs. Ashland's entrance into this new home, that Mr. and Mrs. Montgomery, accompanied by the child Helen, made their first call upon her. Strange to say, it was the first time Mrs. Montgomery had met her, who now was filling a place so near her, for many years. Yet she came to her who was to fill the place of that lost sister, with a determination to welcome her cordially among them. But the cold, haughty manner of the bride chilled the hearts of the callers, and Mr. Ashland was wounded that his friends should meet with such a reception in his home-should receive such a welcome from his wife. Little Helen she received with a small show of kindness; but the sensitive one very soon turned from this new mamma, to nestle in the loving embrace of her aunt. 
               Mr. Ashland had made his calculations to have his child stay with him now, and when Mr. and Mrs. Montgomery arose to leave with that formality which was chilling, the child sprang from her father's arms, and clung determinedly to the dress of her aunt. The distressed look of that baby face was quite irresistible, when told that she was not to go, and her father was compelled to yield to the little one and the pleading look of his sister; but it was with the assurance that he should come for her the following day, to bring her to his home. It was a hard trial-this giving up of their baby-to every member of the family; but her father had the best right to her, and they were compelled to yield. The poor little one clung to that kindly bosom which had pillowed her head as lovingly as could her own mother's, and the father's heart misgave him as he tore her away; for, although he would not acknowledge it, a doubt did arise in his mind with regard to the happiness of the future of his precious one-the child of his lost Helen. 
               Two or three times he had seen a shadow pass over the face of his beautiful Flora-a shadow which changed all so strangely, it made him tremble with dread. But in a moment that enticing smile would drive the cloud not only 
             
         
       
   
