
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). Sibylla, or, The Mystery of the Brown-stone House .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7626
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Sibylla, or, The mystery of the brown-stone house 
            
               SIBYLLA JOY;

011

B-yr DR. J. H. ROBINSON,
AUTH0' OF BSUCK BISON", "NICK WHIFFLES", " GOOD-FR-NOTHING DICK",
" CATHOLINA", " PATHAWAT", ETC., ETC., ETC.
r                       A

rI'l

NEW YORK:
FREDERIO A. :BRADY, PUBLISHER,
No. 22 ANN STREET.

the       ta g a ' th     own-tone      a  a.


I

I

V

o .

ENTERED accogdig to Act of Congress, in the year 1864,
By CAULDWELL &amp; WHITNEY,-~
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York.

44

4,                                                           e
41,

ORaSKE &amp; Co.,     *      '
6 T E E 0 T Y P ER E5,
16l-WIniam st, .N.Y.

1

VIC

1'a-

SIBYLLA JOY:.
011.

CHAPTER I.
A -BRASIER OF CHARCOAL.
It was a brown-stone house, situated at the
corner of a fashionable avenue, in' the city of
New York.    The brown-stone house had
brown-stone neighbors, but none more grand
and imposing. It was surrounded by an'ele-
gant iron fence, inclosing a neht margin of
greensward. The brown-stone house, was
not social in its outer aspect ; but it was aris-
tocratic, and its master did not cai e to have'
it otherwise. .Stephen Parkhurst was its
master. Stephen Parkhurst:was fifty years
of age. In everything pertaining to his char-
acter, Stephen Parkhurst was a remarkable.
man. His mental attributes were not of the
common order. He was a gentleman of iron
firmness of purpose. His sagacity equaled
his resolution. He was coldly courteous, but
not affable. -'He possessed a singular. faculty
of penetrating the designs of those who ap-
proached him. This intuitive power seemed
in Stephen Parkhurst something more than
mere accident-it was a subtle instinct.
His forehead was broad and overhung his
eyes, which were -deep-set and glowed like
dark yet animated opals. - Thought, burned
perpetually in those penetrating balls. His
nose was long and straight. His mouth wit
wide, and somewhat depressed at the cor-
-ners. His cheeks,.like his brow, were furrow-
ed with care.' The .handwriting of Time
gave a severe but not disagreeable expression
to his face. He had iron-gray hair. He Wore
no beard. He was of medium height ; his
figure erect, and his step firm and assured.
Stephen Parkhurst was a man eminently
fitted to take care Tof himself. No matter
how the 'world might goi; no matter what
kind of people came to him-; no matter what
traps were laid for his feet ; no matter what
hypocrisy surrounded him; no matter what
danger dogged him-he could take care of

,himelf. To take care of one's self is a great
thing.. Stephen Parkhurst was strong, and
had power to protect the weak.
Stephen Parkhurst reigned alone: in his
brown-stone house. There was- no one in
the brown-stone house to dispute\ his sover
eign wishes. Mrs. Stephen Parkhurst had
left the brown-stone house for a. very narrow
and silent house a few feet under ground.
But Stephen's life followed on, and the -do-
mestic routine did not stop.
It was.a September evening. No matter
what- year it was-all time is the same in
story-but it was not long ago. Stephen
Parkhurst was at home and had a visitor.
Had there been no visitor, thisstrange record
would not have dated from that night. This
visitor was a man near Stephen's 'own age,
but much unlike him in person and char-
acter. He was taller, thinner, and less erect
and manly in his bearing. His eyes went
down when they should have gone, up into
one's face, and went up stealthily when they
should lave been elsewhere. His, hair was
gray-perbaps with age, perhaps with suffer-
ing, perhaps with protligacy. His expression
was reticent and brooding. He had evident-
ly succumbed to many things which he
should have conquered;- and his ideas of
human, brotherhood were considerably con-
fused. There were spectral shapes flitting
about his conscience. Scanninghin closely,
one would say that he was disposed to mis-
anthropy, and that there was a well of bitter-
ness within him that no moral pump could
draw dry. In his dress he was not quite.
:tidy, and he was perceptibly worn and
threadbare.p                 w
. This was Richard Parkhurst, half-brother
to Stephen. The relationship was in blood
andI not in sentiment.
- Stephen Parkhurst had just returned from
journey. He sat in an easy-chair casting

4

I.''

t

"

(          '


4              .                SIBYLLA JOY.
furtive glances at Richard, who was not a  "I will order a brasier of coals," said Rich-
frequent visitor.. He shivered, rubbed the ard Parkhurst.
palms of his hands together, and said :    "A brasier of coals," repeated. Stephen,
"The air is chilly and the room is damp." approvingly. "Thank you, Richard. You
"Yes," answered Richard, gloomily, "the were always suggestive. As a boy, I remem-
aiy is chilly and the room is damp."    ber, you were fullof expedients.t
It was not frosty weather-it was scarcely . Richard kept his eyes averted, andtre-
cool ; but the house was large and the damps ceived the commendation of his rich relative
had crept into the unoccupied apartments. meekly.       .    .
Rooms will- grow frigid when there is not  "There are springs in the cellar, [think,"
human life, and' breath in them.        resumed Stephen, meditatively..l "Hence the
"The walls sweat with moisture," added mold upon the walls. But mold will come
Stephen Parkhurst. t                    'to us all anon."
"The furnace should have. been lighted  " True, Sir," answered Richard, in ,a sub-
- during, your absence," observed Richard: dued tone. "But you will walk above the
"The paper is almost wet. There is a deadly mold mafny years-you will walk above the
chill here."                             mold by reason of strength-till your. lovely
. "Death is colder than) you dream of," re- daughter has grown to womanhood, is mar-
turned Stephen. "Talk not ofdeath but oflife." ried, and has children of her own. She will
"It is well for you to talk of life," said the be greatly admired. How thrives she at
othermoodily. "You who ha  e riches ; you school?  hat happiness to possess such a
who live in this littering avenue ; you.who treasure ! I envyyou the paternity of that
have the entre societyy ;you who .are'fol- sweet creature. it is long since I have seen
lowed and flattered; you who hold the hearts her ; yet, without. meaning offence to you,
of men in your hands. Men are creatures to- Sir, I feel an almost paternal. interest in Ur-#
be'bought and-sold for mcoiey."         sula. Ah, Sir, if you should die ?"
A furrow, running from thebridge of his  sHe shook his head as if dying would be a
nose to the roots of his hair, divided Rich- very bad thing foj Stephen, but still re-
ard's forehead into two sinister sections.  framed from looking steadily athim.
" Good men are not bought and sold," an- "If I should die," responded Stephen,
swered Stephen, coldly. "But we- will not quietly, "Ursula will inherit my fortune."
moralize, It is too late in life to begin to  "Angels defend her I" muttered Richard,
moralize, Richard. It were better to make piously.. Then added, with some hesitation:
the house comfortable than to make maxims. ",And if Ursula should die . '".
I am mercurial. Atmospheric changes affect  His voice faltered in spite of his self-con-
me. This hanging moisture will bring on trol.
my' old aches and pains.. AlmI! I feel them  "In that case," added Stephen Parkhurst,
now. ' What folly to shiver in one's own with a dubious snle, "perhaps you would
house, when there is. a labyrinth'oof airpipes become suddenly rich."
in the cellar, and fuel in abundance."    Richard bowed, gratefully, and said, with
Richard nodded, cynically.             warmth: "Heaven forbid that I should be-
" Heat and ventilation ,keep doctor's gigs come rich in that sad way I"
from the door, and doctor's bills from our  Stephen, being tender-hearted, was much
faces. Heat-and ventilation are for all sea- shocked. He added, presently
sons of the year. Be good enough, Richard,  "Excuse rne, honored Sir; I am standing
to ring the bell."  -                   bere talking, while you are shivering. I will
Thehalf-brother arose and pulled the bell- go to the servants' ball immediately."
cord ; but no'one answered the call. Stephen, He moved toward the door, as if anxious
began to be impatient. Richard looked at to oblige Stephen Parkhurst.a-
the fire-place and said, With apparent indif-  "Bring me some hotbrand -and-water,
ference: "Thegrate is crippled. You can also," said the' half-brother. "When I have
have no fire here."                     warmed my benumbed hands and feet, I will
" When the master of the house is abroad, retire."
the domestic machinery gets out of order," .Richard hurried away with fraternal haste.
muttered Stephen.'  r have servants, but I Stephen settled back in his chair, and seemed
am not served. My chills are coming,! Ac- to forget that the air was chilly and the room
cursed be intermittents ! I. cannot wait for damp.  He manifested some restlessness,
fires to be lighted in the flues below. What frowned, and looked threatening.
shall I do, Richard Y,"'..                In -ten minutes, 'the suggestive Richard
His teeth chattered, and he stole a look came back, followed by a servant bearing a
at Richard from beneath his overhanging brasier of burning charcoal; which he placed
brows. 'His dark eyes glowed like smolder- upon the hearth in obedience to a gesture
in fires.                           .from his master's relative.'

0

r

.

Stephen Parkhurst arose, and the seivant
wheeled his large chair toward, the brasier.
He resented himself, smiled blandly upon
Richard, leaned forward, and held his hands
over the pan. The- coals glowed, and shot
little globes of fire at him. The heat fumed
up against his chilled fingers and blue lips.
he servant quietly' threw a cloak over
his shoulders, and gave him the hot brandy
and-water. He accepted the glass, and, hold-
ing it untasted, looked dreamily at Richard.
" You have not inquired about my old
friend, Nornian," he said.  *
"No. I have been thinking of you, and
not of your foster-brother. Remember, Sir,
that I have not known him intimately, And
never loved him. You were always fond of
him; and some uncharitable persons fancied
that the resemblance between you was rather
too strong to be purely coincidental. But
that is nothing. Slander is natural to .man.
There are people in the world who would
die if'they couldn't talk about their neigh-
bors. 'The world is such a hypocrite that I
hate it: It rails at the best of us. I have
known it to wag its tongue at you. It has
ca"Unkind world!" said Stephen, calmly.
"How fares this Norman?" asked Richard,
glancing at the brasier.   u
"Well. Very well. I -doubt whether he
be not happier than either of us."
He spoke carelessly, and sipped from the
glass.
" He has always experienced your charity,
I believe," observed' Richard, with a less
friendly expression..
"On my journey to .see my daughter, I
passed a night with him in his humble home.
The interview awakened memories that long
have slept. I softened toward Norman Drew.
I'shall bury all his infirmities."'
Stephen Parkhurst sighed, and fell into
abstraction.
"It is better to forgive than to bear malice,"
replied Richard, with humility.
"1Benefactions are better than curses," said
" 'Stephen, nodding at the brasier in a musing
manner.' "Curses are the froth and spume of
anger.. I am making some final arrangements
concerning Norman Drew."
-"You can well afford to be charitable,"
answered Richard, uneasily. " But you are
beginning.to-be comfortable,,and'I will leave
you. Can I do anything more for you ?"
He kept his eyes fixed upon the glass,
which Stephen had not entirely drained ol
its contents,.
"No," responded Stephei,'impressively\;
" yu can do nothing more for me!"
He paused ; then, raising himself'-in' his
chair and turning his grave face upon his
half-brother, asked.

'ii

" What is your business with me?"'
- Not quite prepared for this question, Rich-
ard Parkhurst hesitated, and was perceptibly
embarrassed.
" I believe," added Stephen, coldly," that
you never call on,me for, naught ? Is there
not some trifling matter that you .came to-see
about'?"
He held Richard firmly under his eyes,
and seemed to look him through with his un-
wavering glances.
"Nothing," said Richard, "that will not
keep till morning.. Pardon me for obtrud-
in . You keow that I seldom trouble you."
A bitter sneer flickered on the pale lips of
Stephen Parkhurst.
" I knew not,'"', he responde,,' "lut that you
had reached the end of wit, and'had come to
me in default of it.' Your ways are bad,
Richard. They are more than bad, Richard.
They are abominable! Do not suppose' that
I have lost sight of you because I'do not
often see  ou.  The path of' your life is
crooked. ices and devices must have an
end at last. Cards and cunning prosper not
always. Beggary and burglary follow such
beginnings. "Will.you never mend, Rich-
ard?"'
" You are severe, Sir,"'answered Richard,
assuming 4n air of profound humility. "Se-
vere, but not utterly unjust. With God's
help, I hope. to begin a new life, Stephen."
He drew a tattered handerchief from his coat-
pocket and wiped his'-eyes. " I have, already
begun a new life,"
1Weep moderately, Richard, weep moder-
ately !" returned Stephen, sarcastically. "Vio-
lent emotion may injure you! However, let
this pass. , We have not much in common.
You live in the world, and I live in it ; and
that is about all that can. be said of us. You
can hope little from. me. I am not a gener-
ous man. I never .learned to be heroic.
Nearness of blood makes not nearness of feel-
ing. The man that I love, is my relative ;
and no other is akin to me. Being 'born of
my mother makes no brother for me, unless
the thought be brotherly. A sister is a. sis-
ter, if her acts, be sisterly. I offer you no
money, because the world is all before op,
and -you can wrmg money',out of it. You
have- a great. capital, Richard, to work upon.
You have-craft, cunning, duplicity, chicanery,
device, wile, trick,.and finesse for your capi-
- tal. With these you hq4  pw rich. But
you look not rich, Richard'l
I am not rich !" muttered Richard. "But
this is a subject, Sir, that is painful. The re-
bukes of a friend are better, however, than
the hisses of an enemy. You cannot re-
, proach me,$#tephen, more bitterly than I re-
proach myself. My ,conscience deals more
severely with me than you have dealt. bo

r'

,
Y
~
T  i ',
"r

I
1

SIBYLLA JOY,


6 SIBYLLA JOY.
not spare me; for pity were weakness. With well to remain too long with burning  h
your high. notions o ' rectitude, your regular coal. However"-he looked at the coals--.
habits, your ,austerity of life, my'iegulari- "there are not 'enough tohai'rn me I thnk."
ties must appear to you in the worst light, and  He pnshedback his chair, arose. and said,
I expect no faith from you till my conduct carelessly, to his half-brother :
has fairly won it."                        "Success to your reformation, Richard !
"4I will not'quarrel with' your young refor- Do not put yourself much in my way -till.
nation; for I know it must beweak'in the your new life is seasoned somewhat by time.
legs," replied Stephen, impassively. " If you  will not' be ungenerous, however ; I will
have found a niew .path,abd it be a good one, give you-mny blessing."'
walk on. Your feeble feet have sometime s   e drew in his breath, lifted his eyebrows,
made a fatnl slip, when; the road, of your life and-depressing the corners of his mouth, nod-
seemed smooth and smiling, and full of prom- ded his head at his relative, who scowled,
ise. There is something prophetic in me to- set his teeth hard together, 'and covertly
night, Richard. A melancholy mist hangs clenched his hands. He had diliculty in
over my .miid. Shadows flit around me. mastering himself.
Whence come, shadows ? Does death reflect  ' Good-night, Richard."
itself on fteground before us, Richard !" "Good-night,'Sir," said Richard, huskily.
His deep-set 'and ealnuly-burning eyes were  "He bowed and retired, slowly:losingthe
turned upon his half-brother. 'The'charcoal door  after hin        y' c
glowed in the brazie, and -the heated air.-
charged with mephitic gases went purling             CHAPTER .II.
upward.               ' 'L-
Richard was standing on the threshold of, Stephen Parkhurst was alone. The serv-
the door, evidently anxious to go. The cona- ant had gone. He stood motionless a few
versation had taken a turn not much to his moments, then stepped qtickly to the door,
liking. He' felt out of place, arid' like on and locked it. His next action was to place
who is se&amp;etly followed by'sure-footed us- the brasier of charcoal in the fireplace, where
tice. The glances, of, Stephen alarmed him; the .drail' of" the flue' seizing the poisonous
not because t  sey were suspico     r -         e     th ee        e     he
cause they acre searching. The iconversa- was already_ freighted 'wsit ~stifling vapors.
tion, too, had drifted to a strange point. 'He He'cfrew'doWn' the window' at the to), ald
answered as calmly as he could:          the oplressive exhalations began to eddy out.
" It does,'no doubt. Banish-gloomy reflec- Stephen Parkhurst's 'lungs were relieved.
tions. Doubt comes with darknesss, axed con. He leaned against the wall, and holding by
fidence with the sun."          '        ths window-sash, draih'in the pure atmos-
" I seldom  have doubt and darkness ' phere with gasping{vidity.
Ste hen 'went on. " I cannot help tliinki  " Unnatural villain !"''he muttered. "He
of Ursula to-nio-ht. If she should be left would' kill 'me with c charcoal. Subtle de-
alone in the world, and you should go on re- vice! 'Unparalleled diabolism ,'
forming, Isuppose you would look after her,  He paused.' The glass from which he had
now and then."          ''              drank the'warm liquor was. on the table
"aHeavef knows I would !" exclaimed Rich- where . the servant had plaiSe it. He hur-
ard, with emphasis.          ' "        ried toward it, took it' up, and examined the
"-Thank you, Richard !" said Stephen, ab- few remaining drops, by taste and smell.
sently. Then added in the same absent way  ."Drugged !' ezclaimid Stephei.
" How the brasier glows ! There is a soul in  He put the glds into' his secretary, and
fire. It is not wonderful that some races of locked it in.
men should worship that mystic element. - It  " Drugged with morphine ! Vile schemer!
was an in piratibn, almost, to think of a pun It is well for me that I aim used to the drug;
of charcoal."                    "      a fatal stupor would have followed else;a
He bathed' his hands in the witnth-for-. the charcoal would iv6 '6rie the rest A
gatful, apparently, that Richard was' in the Richard! This is another of your' good of-
room.                        '          flees!' You. will soon pave -hell with our
" Very wo          charcoal !" he con. good intentions 'tou have doomed me 'dead.
tinned. "It       aleful and beneficent. You have watched'and waited man   ear*
There is life a  ath In it. It is, lihe all for opportunity.  ybu have been a ' 1e  l
other things, good or'evil, as we use it."  -spiler, weaving webs to insnare. me; l
He drawn the remaining'brandy and-water, wakeful nights to plan me out of the world
and handed~ the glass to the servant, say- getting up ai the morning, brainracke with
ing :'                                  the plots of your pillow ; swallowing  ip order
" I will retire now. Be 'sureato come and With your daily bread, and carecin  rithe to
remove the brasier when I. ring. It is hot your daily haunts. I know you Richard." I

l;

have not forgotten anefatal injury, and I will
not forget it now. You' have.' chosen your
path, and, Heaven beingjust, you shall walk'
m It, though you ge sweating horror at every
stop. Time atones- fbr nothing;- it may
deaden neanories,but it cannot dull the 'edge
of justice. 'Justice is a-swoid that never
rusts, and it :is "so bright, that guilt can see its
face upon itspolished s 1rlace. The wrongs
of one whose name I will not 'pronounce,
ike the blood- of Abell call for vengeance.
She shall, have it,' Richard. She shadihave
Imost infamous* Richard"!, Heaven' helps
me. I will gire you   plot more' dark and
impenetrable -than any you have ever con-
cocted in'your midnightvigils. I will give
scope to yourgenius for villainy. You shall
have a free rein arid-a loose bit Inyour mouth.
The track of crime shall be cleared for you
to run your course. Drive on, Richard, -and
see where you will stop at' last ; if it"be not
under the gallows, it will 'not be forack of
wickedness."'          '
He paced slowlyto andfro whe he was
thus muttering to himself, bitterly.
" There-is Ursula," he continued. "In do-
ing justice to Richard, mustI do injustice.'to
her ? Let me ponder-well. Are my nerves
steady enough? Is my will strong' enough?
Rave I counted the cost? I think"I have.. I
was'tlinking, thinking 'all the time Richard
was with me. When he suggested' the bra-
sier of charcoal, I-had an inspiration, which
seemed to come from the :hovering 'soul of'
;orman Drew. I 'told' him I was going to
ry all miy foster-brother's.infirmities; 'butI
did not tell himn that my foster-brother was
ready to be buried. Poor Norrnai ! His
death shocks me. That he should die onthe
way to' me, and at this'juncture, is singular.
But I will turn his deceased to good accotilt."
He took a long narrow strip of paper from
his pocket. It Was a telegram, announcing
the sudden, death,' at a station-house, not far,
from the city, of one Norman Drew, who,
while dying, had requested' that his body5
should be forwarded to-Stephen Parkhurst for
burial. '                          ,
" Gone before," .sighed Stephen. "First'
home, that is all. 'Well, he died easily, and
that is something.' He leaves. "neither kith
nor kin to weep for him. 'It is now eleven'
o'clock. At, twelve, his body will arrive.
I must'receive it privately, at the'side-door.,
The strong resemblance that the 'deceased
bore to myself shall furnish 'Richard adead
half-brother. done to deg h within brazier of
charcoaL  It requires skill, adroitness, nerve,
and secrecy.. 'In Paris, this would not be a
sr c thsg athe Freh are so ful of cc
'centuiiand ' unnatu ral devices. Wyhy,
then, should' it be ,'marvel in this motley'
American city? But whom' shall I trust?

No, one in this house is worthy of full cpufl-
dence, saverSibylla ; and she is too young, to
be a safe accomplice..:Nor have I the moral
right to burden her with a matter so extrerge-
l1 difficult to manage, and which.would cqn-
tinually tax her brain for expedients. Young
prople should not bet harried' and worried
with -startling' mysteries.  Poor Sibyllaj is,
fond' of me; and she is grateful for the home
I have: given her., What -is, about to. happen
will shock'her. Grief will heal, though, and
tears will: dr ,Yoking girls. do t~ot ptten die
of sorrow.  shall see my own mineral, and
that will be a:novelty. I shall have two sin-
cere mourners,'I think--my daughter and my
protege.:
ie went:to his secretary, he  sned it, h
took out a package of papers.  e examihed
them, andtupon some of them he wrote. ri-
nally, he replaced the package, sayipg:
" must-send for Magnus Drake. 'e .s
most fitfor. these things. He is sagacious-
he is prudent."
Magnus Drake was Stephen Parkhurst's
legal. adviser, a very "shirewd, and ,reliable
gentleman.  Magnus Drake carried perse-
verance, faithfulness, and industry into -his
business. He was cautious, and as earnest
as he was cautious. Hewas adroit, and'hon-
est as he',swas, adroit. He could be trusteid,
both in' the-great and small affairs of 'life. If
he was cunting, it was-for his client-; if he
was subtle, it was for the truth. Tothisintan
the thoughts of Parkhurst turned.
"Shall I send ?" he queried. "There is no'
one to'sehd. John has been tampered with ;
he brought me,thedrugged brandy., John is
a villain. I cannot 'eend John. I must go
myself.. No; 'Iwill send Sibylla.' It is late,
but the child has courage. The streets are
still full, and no ne will harm her. a
Just then there was a light knock at, the
door.
"11er knock," said Stephen, his couinte-
nince lighting tp. "She comes at the right
moment. -The good girl likes her protector,
I -dotbelieve.,  ow" for the part I am to act.
I dust be grave, to melancholy. She would
remember afterward that the shadow of a
coming event was upon me this night."'
He arose, unlocked and opened the door,
calmly and quie'ily. A.'young girl entered,
timidly. Her eyes beamed, her-cheeks low-
ed, and her fair lip smiled on Stephen ark-
hurst. Her face eloquently asked:.
"May I come8"
She held out herchands. ' Stephen received
them both in his, and looked down upoui her
with paternal tenderness. 'His heart warmed
toward her.- ije stooped and kissed lien fore-
head almost reverently  but.it was 'the rever-
ence of innocence and 'trust ; of beauty and
dependence.

SI- hLA  JY.

.

f


8.                               SIBYLLA JOY.
"I am glad to see you," she said, and her attractive. ' Her forehead was not high, but
expression bore testimony to her words. - . in harmony,.with the rest of her face. Her
"And I' am glad to .see"you, little lady," eyebrows were dark and prettily penciled ;
answered-°Stephen Parkh(urst, very gently.  and. her hair, which was also'very dark, was
11e continued to hold her childlike hands. soft:and glossy.. Her nose was small and
They 'formed a pretty picture--the man of regular.: ,Her mouth, too, was small, the lips
fifty and the girl of sixteen. One was worthy being'foll-and rosy. An artist had called it a
of being trusted, and the other was a creature sweet mouth, and wished ,to paint'it into
to beloved. One was matured manhood and a pet picture of an PRastern princess. Her
strength ; the other, ingenuous girlhood and eyes were bright and expressive ; they were
faith:                                   grave, they were gay ; they were arch, they
"I was thinking of you, Sibylla," said were demure, they were loving,. they were
Stephen. " My intellect has been asl ng my tantalizing ; they were intense, and to be be.
heart if anyone loved me sate Ursu a; and lieved in. One could-see in them no lurking
my heart said, Sibylla.," art, no latent hypocrisy In person, Sibylla
m" Good heart !" murmured the girl, laying was light, active, and healthful. Her move;
her head against his breast. "Your heart men *were quick and graceful, according to
was always right."                      the inspirations of nature.
These words were simple ; but the manner  Siby laJoy had beentheprotegee of Stephen
of their utterance gave them potency with Parkhursttever since she was a child of seven.
Stephen.=,                               years of age.: She was now sixteen ; and so
He closed the door and ledheri into the sweet .temper and'so lovely in person that
room    She detected a strange odor, and she w    reatly endeared to her protector.
looked with some surprise at the pan of char- In. the temple of Stephen's love she stood
coal in the fireplace.     -            next to Ursula. Every kind word and every
"I want a messenger," said " Stephen. generous act she 'had richly repaid by spon-
" Will you be my carrier-pigeon lI"     taneous. afection and tender faith in him.
"Whither sall I a    " asked Sibylla. He was her Providence;, and she worshiped
'jGive me'your commands, and let mergo." him as such.
"It is late t" observed Stephen Parkhurst.
"It is never too late to do your bidding," " Let me out," said Sibylla, caressing the
repliedSibylla,'gracefully.            hand that had cared for her.
"I will write a note which you shall carry  "It don't know, child," he answered,
to Magnus Drake, with secrecy and dispatch. thoughtfully. " inam half afraid to send you.
You muti;go out by the side-door, .and no I must be careful of my pet."
one must know that you leave the house. I  "Pear not, dear guardian. I shall glide
will let you out ; andcyou.must'return in the along thestreets unobserved. I am riot very
same manner, when I will let you in. Mag- large,. you know ; but I am very qick. I
nus, I dare say, will, come with you. Are you am so healthy. Why, sometimes you can
afraid?"                            'Ihardly keep up with me when we walk
"No ; dear father, I am not afraid when it together.  Do let me go. I love to do your
Is yon that commands.. Are .you well to- wishes."
night?' You look pale."                   " You shall be my Mercury, darling," said
"I think I am    not altogether .well," Stephen Parkhurst. "I doubt whether the
answered Parkhurst, sitting down and begin- gods had such a messenger. Come, Mer-
ning to write.- - " My sensations are not curius."  ,
natural, but do not be alarmed.- I halll live  He conducted her through a narrow hall to
long enough to disappoint myenemies.  Go 'a side-door of which he kept the key. It
quietly ,for your bonnet and shawl,. and was, in fact, a private entrance, communicat-
the note will be ready when you return."  ing indirectly with -his own apartments.
Sibylla Joy. came back very soon. Stephen Stephen Parkhurst was eccentric ; and there
gave her a sealed note, directed to Magnus were times When he wished to go out and
Drake, 'attorney-at-law,' No. 7, -  street. come in without epecial'observation.  So he
Shaplaced itin her boson, while her patron had a' private door and carried the key.
regarded her earnestly.               ' With-a few words of caution, he let out Sibyl.
Nibyll was young, and of a smallcompact la, and' left the -door unlocked, so that she
figure. She was a brunette. Her cheeks had mightenter without ringing or delay, when
a dark, rich tinge.  Her face was oval, and she had performed her errand.
every feature was impressed with a peculiar  "Heaven bless her!"'- sighed  Stephen.
beauty.; She was vivacious, hern expression "Strange it is that in this worildwe are com-
continually changing.  She glowed and peeled to give pain to those that we love.
sparkled with every generous thought ; and But so it is. Is it because we love unworthi-
there were moments when she was singularly ly? YNo; it is because life is pain and pleas-

\

"I

*0
1-
to
w

\J1


.'I

;.
,.h
' Y ¢                          '
'       y t y  ', +
t

SIBYLLA JOY..                                11
ure. There could be no world without good la, dropping his hand. " But perhaps I will
and evil."                              prove to -you that I have the firmness of a
He returned to his room. The brasier of woman.'-
charcoal was still burning in the fireplace  "Good night," said Stephen, yet more
under the crippled grate ; but it was power- soft)y.
less for evil. The deadly gases whirled' up  "You have iron nerves," continued Sibylla,
the chimney, to be lost in space. Stephen almost ready to cry; "but I know that you
frowned,,and awaited the coning of his light- are mentally disturbed. You are going'to do
footed messenger.- He Wrote various memo- something that taxes your strength, and I
randa, ant placed them in a private drawer will find you out. I love to be near you, and
among other papers. He was thus busied, you push me away.    am happy to sit at
when a soft little hand'stole over his mouth. 'your feet, and-you need o servant but me to
The suddenness of the action startled him;, go, and to' come, and to nurse you, when you
but, well knowing to. whom it belonged, he, are ill."      A
kissed i, without looking up, and asked :  .- " Goy! ,Ge 1" gasped Stephen Parkhurst,
"So soon, child?  Did you find himt? Is evidently anxious to escape the penetrating
he coming ?"     -                     eyes and searching love, of Sibylla. ".He
O" Yes, dear Sir, I havefound him, and he has:come. Go, good child ! Go, darling]",
is coming,"- she answered. 'Then added,  He closed the door hastily, 'and locked it,
timidly : " Youiloolr tysteriois.  What are leaving her standing in the  hall.-'  -
you going to do? I-wish. you would take me  "'One. needs iron nerves !" he muttered.
into your confidence."         "       " That girl has nearly upset me. I love her,
"tDo I really look mysterious ?" replied I do believes Ah, Magnus ! l.am glad to see
Parkhurst. "I am sorry if I do ; for mystery you. Be seated, i.Magnus. I have much to
is generally hateful; and follows upon the say, anddesire your private ear."
footsteps ot'intrigue and concealment. Where  Parkhurst dropped into the nearest chair,
you find mystery you usually find evil."  and, drawing his hand slowly across,'his
"You are not evil," said, Sibylla.    brow, added :
"I trust not," returned Stephen, in a'sub-'  "'The drug is heavy here, on my brain.
dued tone. "If I do not adniit you to all my Villains ! you shall suter for this! In' my
thoughts, it is not because my motives will own 'house, too! Conspirators in my own
not bear scrutiny.  Confidence, might- not house ! Draw your chair this way, Magnus.
always make you happy,; and .in this' in- But first give me some brandy from that
stance it would impose a -terrible restraint bottle. I a'm threatened with a narcotic stu-
upon your actions. There are some things por. Powerful stimulants will conquer it."
to which you are-not by nature fitted. What-  Magnus-obeyed quietly; then, sitting down
ever happens, trust in Magnus Drake.' Be- near Stephen, .,listened , to him. attentively ;
sieve in him;' look to hin for consolation."  while the coals' ins the brazier glowed and
"To him I owe this home 'and your love. sputtered under the grate.
There never was such a man as Magnus
Drake.  He took care of me, he fed, he     .   -   CHAPTER III.
cherished me, and, last and best of all, he  -     -NOluAN 'Dluw,
brought me to you."                      Stephen Parkhurst made a statement of
Her hand stole quietly into Stephen Park- 'facts. Magnus heard him with surprise ; but
hurst's.                     - '       did not interrupt him till he had finished. He
"Praise is his' due. Your lips speak his expressed doubts of his fiend's convictions ;
praises well. Share your love between him  but Stephen iet those-doubts with evidence.
and me. You belong to us. And now, my He produced the glass from which he had
dear girl,'leave me. ' I hear Magnus Drake drank the brandy, and showed him the par-
at the door. We are about to discuss matters tiles of' mophine at the bottom. Nutmegs
of great importance, and'must be alone."  had been grated into the liquid, to disguise
He led her 'gently to the door, and, with a the taste'of the drug ; but in the'mixed sedi-
paternal benedition, dismissed 'her. She ment the white grains were'visible. As far-
went reluctantly, looking back, hoping to be other testimony,;Stephen pointed to the bright
recalled.  She', came back without being coals On the hearth. An evil intention was
bidden, whilehe was dOlosing the door. She too apparent to be ignored. Magnus pon-
aught his hand, and placing it reverently dered, and made no additional attempt to
against her heart, said, almost in a whisper: remove Stephen's impressions. It was mani-
'\Hear it beat. -Do you think'it would be- fest that Richard Parkhurst, with' the com-
tray'you? Do you think there is any secret plicity of John, the servant, had set a trap
it wohld not keep for'gu ?'  ' -      or- Stephen to fall into. It was equally clear
"Gobd night," said Stephen, softly. ,  to the latter that this profligate half-brother
" You thinge maa-child I" exclaimed Sibyl- had long waited for an opportunityto perpe-

t r


12                              SIBYLLA JOY.
trate a crime revolting to civilized communi- a year ; and joy shall wipe the eyes of grief."
ties, and shocking to the better, instincts of " Sorrow leaves scars upon the mind.
humanity.                                Grief fades the cheek of beauty," said Mag-
Stephen. Parkhurst, fixing his eyes' firmly nus.
upon Magnus Drake, told him of the plan of  "Your objections are logical," responded
retaliation which he-had resolved to pursue. Stephen ; " but the do not change my pur-
Magnus heard him with unfeigned astonish- pose. We will make the startling trial, and
meat. 'He was startled at the' scheme that the grave delusion shall be long or short, as
Stephen laid before him...,.At first thought, justice or mercy demand."  -
it appeared utterly impracticable ; but Park-  Parkhurst looked at his watch.
.burst conquered his objections with steady  " It is the hour," he said.,"- " The dust of
and unhesitating skill.             .    Norman Drew should be near.    Will you
"iYour whole plot," said Magnus, "has for enter with me into this plot ?"
its starting-point, the resemblance between  " I might well have asked more time for,
Norman Drew and yourself. If that simili- reflection," replied Magnus Drake, seriously.
tude Ile strong, and to the best of recollection "But as your decision is made, and your will
it 'is, his body may successfully pass for firmly set, I willspare you further argument,
yours. But the whole difficulty of this un- and act as becomes a faithful friend. If per-
dertaking does. not lie in this particular. suasion could move you, I would persuade;
There are other things to be thought of. but as persuasion persuades not, I drop oppo.
Secrecy is to be observed in receiving the sition and fall into the current of your de-
remains of Norman Drew. It must be known sign. I have myself an unpaid score with
that the servants have retired 'to their beds ; Richard Parkhurst, and I would not be loth
that there are, no -lurkers about the premises ; to settle it.
that Richard Parkhurst is not in the imme-  Magnus drew his usually mild brow into a
diate vicinity, keeping watch upon the house. frown, and traveled back somewhat on the
The embarrassment of the case-does not cease road of time,.to look at some of the old mile-
at the funeral of your suppositions body. stones he hadpassed. Beneath the dust and
The necessity of your keeping ont of sight moss of the milestones he found a hand-
will be indispensable ; for it seems to me that writing, and read it, and went on again, in a
you cannot venture to take the name and moment, with the interrupted thought.
character of, Norman Drew.   Richard- is - " Human nature is not so good a ting that
cunning ; he Is bad ;..and being cunning and it forgives an injury.  The mind is a vast
bad, you will have reason to fear and shun storehouse, in which we garner up every real
him. And-this, my dear Sir, is not all. You or imaginary wrong-where they lie in heaps
will have much to contend with , Natural to lumber the brain and weigh ,down tie
affection will assert itself. The tears of Ur- thoughts. We find revenge among the rub-
sula and Sibylla will shake your resolution. bish.- He who treasures wrongs is not above
I know that you have extraordinary strength ; revenge. What shall I do, first, Stephen
but the grief of your daughter will appeal so Parkhurst?"  . -.
powerfully to your paternall instincts that  "Go to thesside-door and wait," answered
you will bid me go to her and reveal the the other, quickly.. " Those who will bring
truth; not only to her, but to Sibylla, whom  the body, know where 'to bring it. Have it
you tenderly love. It is impossible that those brought to this room, quietly. I will step
two girls should keep such a secret. They into this closet, so as not to be seen by them.
would betray themselves.in a hundred ways ; That done, pay them liberally, and let them
it would reach the ear of Richard, and then go. I thank you, Magnus, because you will
adieu to the development of your' plot, and help me. I know what your help is. Your
to the slimy twistings of your foe,.,which you help is good."
expected to witness, yourself unseen."     Stephen stepped into the closet, and viag-
"Your remarks' are just," answered Ste. nus went out to execute the -wishes of his
'phen; "1! but the precautions which I shall take- friend. It was then ten minutes of twelve'
will, I trust, render your apprehensions un- Stephen remained in the closet till the clock
called for. What you say concerning Ursula struck twelve, when the opening of doors
is reasonable, and, with persons, of ordinary warned him that Magnus was returning.
firmness, would be conclusive. But with Amid the shuffling of feet, he heard soin"-
me it is different.. I am not organized like thing, heavy placed upon the table. lie
many-I can adhere to a purpose; and I shivered, and thought of Norman Drew as
never put my hand to a ,work and leave it boy. and man. There was' ashight delay;
unfinished. Ursula will be shocked ; but then Drake let them out, lockedthes side-
such shocks do not kill. Death seldom breaks door, and came back. Parkhurst .ame out
the heart ; and you shall watch over her, of the closet and saw a plain box upon this
Magnus. 'The deception shall last less than table.

a

e
I

BDIYLLA JOY.                                 18
"Was all quiet ?" he asked.           pocket, and the chain around his neck. This
"I heard nothing, and I saw no one stir  was a work of some time ; but Stephen at-
rin," answered' Magnus Drake. .tended to it, deliberately; and with much ex-
"I think we are safe, though Richard is actitude of detail. The ungenial task was at
cunning. Open the box, Magnus, and see length completed.  The mold of Norman
how this piece of mortality looks," said Drew was then laid upon the bed, and ad-
Stephen.                                justed in a natural position,'to give the idea,
"4What .shall I open it with?" inquired that death had come upon.him unexpectedly,
Magnus.                                 from an unexpected quarter. Magnus- ren.
"I have an implement," said, Stephen, dered what aid was needful, surprised at the
going to the closet, opening a drawer, and self-possession of Parkhurst.- When this
taking from it a chisel and hamme;.     ghastly toilet was finished, he could not but
"There must be no noise,"he added, " We confess that the deception was well-nigh
must modulate our voices to whispers. Take perfect.
this instrument, Magnus,'and work softly."  "This thing terrifies me," he said. " for its
He handed,him the Chisel adding:      success seems certain ; and that will be giv-
" A hammer is too noisy. Luckily, there ing Ursula a cup of bitterness." Is it right ?
are no screws to remove ;. the cover is Is it merciful ?"
nailed."                                  "I will not recede," answered Stephen.
, Magnus commenced the work assigned "What shall be done with this box? It
.him, with steady hands, and opened the box should be broken up and burned ; but that
with but little noise. The features of Nor- cannot be, for silence must prevail here."
man Drew were exposed to view. A mo-    "We will take it apart," said Magnus,
mentary awe crept over Magnus. But no "and the boards can be quietly conveyed to
change appeared in the expression of Park- the cellar. 'Tis fortunate that the box is not
hurst. His manner was grave, but not timid. painted ; the pieces will not attract observa-
Firm assurance was in his eyes, though silent-~tion."
pity was, in his heart. He looked at his - "The wine-cellar --the wine-cellar !" ex-
foster-brother. Done with earth and done claimed' Stephen. "We will take it to the
with care, he was peaceful enough. His wine-cellar as it is.- I have the- key of the
mortality was at rest.           .    -vault, which I never trust with the servants,
" What of the resemblance ?" asked Park- save when I send them there. We will put
hurst, in a suppressed tone.            straw in it, and fill it. with bottles of claret.
"I think this face looks' as yours might, Its 'shape 'is ordinary, with the exception of
were you brought to this melancholy state. its length, which is somewhat out of the
There is a perceptible difference, however, common course. But we must risk some-
This face is thinner-than yours, and the nose thing in whatever we do. Bear you the box,
is large; yet the similitude is striking, and Magnus, and I will lead with a light. Or,
I believe will answer your strange purpose." stay ; I will take one end, and carry the lamp
" This is asking much of you," observed also. A six-feet box is awkward to handle.
Stephen, calmly contemplating his, friend. Ah, Magnus ! See what they put us in when
" Pardon me if I ask too much. You need we die ; and it would seem that they be-
not touch this mortality, save to help me (ift grudge this much. Why cannot they give us
it from the box. Many people shudder at more room. Should they crowd our mortal-
the touch of dead men; but I do iot. Some ity so?  0  niggardly world !  0  small-
of the living I cannot touch without a shiver ; heartedvorld !. Look you, Magnus: Stephen
but when the soul has-gone, that only which Parkhurst dies. He leaves a brown-stone
is harmless is left. Were all my enemies house full of rooms, full of luxury, and full of
dead, .I should have nothing to fear from servants ; and they take him from all -this
them. Put your foe in the ground and his and put him in a painted box, so shallow
work is done. Richard wishes to bury me, that it touches his nose and his toes ; so nar-
knowing that buried people hold no mort- row that it cramps his shoulders and squeezes
gages, azid that dead hands grasp no riches, his elbows ; and s disproportionate to the
however tight they may have clutched the ambition-of man that it offends the eye."
dollar-while living."                     " But the wine-vaults ?" interposed Magnus.
They removed the body from the box and "Can we reach them unnoticed ?"
laid it upon the table. The . box was then  "We cgn," answered Parkhurst, with con-
.placed upon the floor, and, Ste phen Park- fidence. " The servants should not be in this
hurst quietly exchanged garmets with the quarter of the house at this hour. Besides, by,
,dead man. , He neglected nothing. He put a" little arrangement of my own, I have that
his diamond ring upon Norman Drew's vinous',repository somewhat under my own
finger ; pinned his diamond pin upon his eye, and can reach it by aprivate staircase
shirt-bosom ; put his gold watch into his vest in the small hall of the side-door, which is

~,


14                               1BYL]
ingeniously masked by a closet. I am a tem-
perate man, Magnus, but I am choice of my
wines, and I care not always to ring for a
menial when my stomach or my palate calls'
for a little old claret.  There is nothing like
being able to get things without ado, and
without advertising your thirst in the kitch-
en. It, shall leave this room by thesame-door
*   it came. Come, Magnus."
"Always fertile in thought," responded the
latter, taking up the box. Parkhurst opened
the door-not the one by which Sibylla had
retired - and with one hand steadied and
lightened Drake's burden. :They bore. it to
the narrow hall.- Parkhurst opened a small
door :which revealed, instead ,of a closet, a
flight of stone steps. They went down the
steps with the box, end, depositing it in a
.convenient place,. filled it with straw .and
bottles. They packed it hurriedly, and laid
the cover loosely upon it, with the direction,
in black paint, which had guided it to the
brown-stone house, in full view. They look-
ed at their work, at each other, and left the
wine-vault.
CHAPTER IV.
THE LIsTENER.
Stephen' Parkhurst had arranged the inter-
ior of his house agreeably to hisown ideas
of convenience. '1he compartments devoted
specially to himself were'upon the first floor ;
and comprised' a sleeping-room, private re-
ception-room, a small ante-room, and a li-
brary. These were separated by halls, not as
wide as the main hall, but sufficiently ample
to suit the proprietor's notions of comfort.
For the sake of quiet, these exclusive apart-
ments did not front upon the 'avenue, but
were situated mn the rear corner of the house ,
two of.them looking- out upon a cross-street,
connecting the fashionable avenue with a less
noted one running parallel with it. The side-
door, by which Parkhurst had, received the,
mortality-of Norman Drew, opened *pon this
transverse street in an :unpretentious way,
with a narrow stip of green and the iron
fence .between,'with its guarding but ever-
lockedgate. This gate had been left unlock-
ed on the night to which attention has - been
drawn. The room, in which the foregoing
scenes transpired, was Stephen's sleeping-
apartment, and was in the southwest cor-
ner of the brown-stone house. East of it
was the library,,and directly between these
two and the main hall were the ante-room
and the reception-room.
When Parkhurst closed the door upon
Sibylla Joy, she was left standing in the hall,
between his reception-room and his sleeping-1
apartment. There was no light there, save
what crept in from the, main hall, where a
single burner had been left burning.

LA JOY.
,Sybilla liad' curiosity, but it was not of-s
malicious and obtruding character. She we
above the meanness of .eavesdropping. She
would have shrunk with repugnance from
taking a- single step to steal the confidential
words of another ; but while she stood there
in the obscurity, she had troubled and anx-
ious thoughts concerning Stephen Parkhurst,
which inspired her with an inquisitiveness
far different fromhmousing curiosity andncom-
mon cunning. She had noticed, closely, the
deportment ofher guardian, and all that was
prophetic in herpure young soul assured-her
that matters were not flowing in their accus-
tomed channel, and that something out of the
ordinary cdurse- was about to happen. His
seriousness, his impenetrability, and  the
sending for .Magnus Drake at such an hour
with the observance of so much secrecy,
awakened startling suspicions. Had Stephen
Parkhurst become disgusted with the world?
Had he seen enough of life -and was he pre-
paring to look at the other side of the pic-
ture,? It was possible.  uch frightful things.
often happened. Peraps her generous pro-
tector was not beyond temptation. Tempta'
tion is liable to take the best of persons and
conquer them.   urmi7seslike these disturbed
Sibylla and shaped her actions. She felt an ir-
repressible desire to listen, and watch in some
manner the conduct of Stephen Parkhurst.
She knew that it was mean'to listen ; that it
was mean to watch-; but she loved him who
had given her home and happiness ; and her
love held her spellbound near the door. She
sat down upon the floor, or rather knelt upon
one knee, and leaned her head against the
door. She heard Parkhurst's voice; but it
was low and the words were indistinguish-
able. Magnus Drake said. but little. - Now
and then he made a brief reply, but his utter-
ances were also indistinct. She remained
motionless till her limbs ached, but was no
wiser for her pains. Magnus went out after
a time. The going out was evident enough.
She did not think he would come back ; but
by and by he returned. What surprised her
most was that he did not come alone; she
judged by the shuffling of feet that at least
two persons were with him. That mystified
her ; nor did the mystery grow less as the mo-
ments went on. Those who entered with
Maghlus departed ; her hearing told her that.
. Why did they move softly in Stephen's
room? Why did they speak in suppressed
voices or in whispers           .
Anew sound reached her attentive ears.
It was a crepitating, rending noise, like draw-
lmg nails ekutiously, or prying against some-
thin&amp;-that offered strong resistance, and yielc-
ed with creakings and complainings. Sibyll&amp;'s
heart beat strangely. She endeavored to Jok
through the k    le; but the key standing

verticalifr in the lock, filled it and backed her
curiosity. She arose, and glided along- the
hall Jill she reached the next;.which ranat
right angles to it, into jhe main hall in one
direction, and, to the- side-door in the other.
She paused at 'the corner of. the mysterious
room. It was well 'that. she stopped .there,
for tine side-door of Stephen's room opened,
almost immediately. ; She shrank back out of
sight. Parkhurst and, Drake were carrying
the box to the wine-vault. Sybilla was s8
timid and so inuch agitated that.she did not
lobk after them, and they passed 'through the
ball-door unseen by leer. Herheart fluttered,
her lips trembled, and her respiration was
painfully -quickened. 'She wished to glance
into that apartment ; one hurried-Cast of the
eye would be enough. The opportunity was
favorable; it asked but afirm foot and pur-
pose. She was turning to obey this impulse,
when she observed that more light suddenly
streamed in the main hall. She instantly re-
membered that Stephen Parkhurst had spoken
of secrecy. .,He had certainly manifested a
-stron desire to be free from interruption, She
considered it her duty to guard him from in-
trusion, whateverhe was doing. Would he do
wrong? Her love said" No". Standing a
little back, and gathering her skirts closely
about her, she kept watch of the passage, and
soon heard the creaking of shoes ; a very
slio'ht and suppressed creaking. ' A face pres-
ent y pushed into view ; a stealthy and anx-
ious face ; a face that had - expectation and
terror in it; a face that had guilt in it. Sibyl-
la recognized those features at once. It was
John Jerome, the servant that had brought
Stephen the hot brandy and water. ,His
name was John Jerome Douglas ; but .they
called him John Jerome. The Douglas had
been dropped so long that he had nearly for-
gotten it. He had come to the conclusion
that two names would -call'him through life
as well as three.
There was only one thing the 'matter with
. John Jerome ; he was wicked. He would
have been a good man, .had' lie not been
wicked; but wickedness got a side-lock upon
him, and gave him a heavy fall, from which
he never recovered. John Jerome never
wrestled with sin after that fall. He was up
for the highest bidder, and down for the
lowest offices. His deeds had found a record
upon  his face.  It was a countenance
smutched with evil' thoughts. Sibylla did
not like John Jerome. 'er dislike dated
from the moment that he set foot within the
portals of the house. It appeared to her
that if God were going to make a hypocrite,
he would make him in the shape of John
Jerome. - Hypocrisy is a vile thing ; so vile
that all the World is fond'of it, and runs after
it, and practices it.

V4

Sibylla had an instinctive. fear of Mn,
Her communications with him had ,e-b
limited to simple corpmands, and no nore of
them than needful. HIe put restraint upon
himself in her presence, and practiced ct '
'simulation ; but the girl was not deceived.
She saw through the flimsy, vail of respect$
and distrusted him still.
Seeing that face, at that hour, with its cun-
ning and stealthiness, alarmed her. Some-
thing was afoot. The house was not going
on in its usmal orderly way. W4iy should he
steal into the hall on tiptoe?. There was ap
evident' purpose of watchfulness in his ma-
ner. Sibylla fesolyed that he should come
no nearer. She thrust her arm forward, .4
waved it slowly up and down. Her aim
and hand looked ghastly white in the pale
spectral light.of the hall. John Jerome saw
the hand, thought of 13elshazza'r, and fled.
She heard him hurrying along the - hall
toward the servants' quarter. @he ran after
hIm, and reached the. corner in tine to see
his back as he passed through the door.
Satisfied that this spy upon the actions of her
guardian had gone, her -feelings of curiosity
returned and drew her, footsteps back.. She
glided, shivering, to the door through- which
Stephen and Magnus had borne the box ; but
lacked courage to turn the key and look in.
She put forth her hand several times, and
her resolution as often failed.  She asked.
her conscience, if she had a right to satisfy
her inquisitiveness in such a manner. To
hover around interdicted spots ; to lurk at
keyholes; t'o lie in. wait, at. unexpected
places ; to play 'the spy upon' the actions of
one she-loved, were things in many respects,
repulsive to her nature.' Hence her nervous
flutterings and her faltering fears.
She grasped the key and turned it'with a
spasmodic motion. Magnus, havin  pm sse4
last, had turned the key and left it in the
l6ck. Stephen would hsve put the key'in
his pocket, being a man particular in do-
tails.
Sibylla Joy pushed open the door the
width of her face, anduplifted her pyes.
She saw 'nothing. Yes, she saw somethin--
'the foot of.Stephen's bed-and the foot of a
men. She was not certain about the latter ;
f9r her trepidations obscured her sight, and
her haste baffled herself. She durs not look
again ; for she heard Stephen and Magnus
returning. She closed the door, locked it,
ang flitted back to the other hall, where she
aused, determined to put the personality of
the two persons beyond doubt, by ' ocular
evidence. phe peered around the corner,
-and doubt vanished ; she saw Stephen un-
locking the door and Magnus behind him.
Sibylla had not in the least lessened the
mystery ; on the contrary, she magnified it,

$I $YbLA JOY.

,;
i
i
i 3
r
;'
{
f
,
,
,  ,

* I


16

- and caused.it to assume vast proportions. It
was a simple concealment at first ; it was
now a bewilderment. She flew to her first
ambush, and tried to hear something that
-would guide her mind and shape her
thoughts, or at least direct them toward a
a given point. , Thus far, her surmises had
received no impul~e to' push them on to cer-
tainty. She learned but. little by her re-
newed vigil. She heard the name of Richard
Parkhurst mentioned several times; but its
connection with the conversation entirely
eluded her.' She finally retired to her cham-
bet, disappointed, harassed by vague appre-
hensiops, and followed by gloomy forebod-
ings.
CHAPTER V.
DUKE MARMADUKE.
Richard Parkhurst reached his lodgings at
eleven o'clock.' He lived on a street-more
noted for Its mysteries than its morals. His
lodgings were more obscure than elegant,
but much in harmony with hiis life and hab-
its. Richard had nobody to take care of but
himself. Had he had any one to. take care of
but himself, that boy or girl, man or woman,
would have been poorly cared for. He could
not take care of himself; at least, he had not.
He had neither fallen into the waeer nor into.
the fire, but he had fallen into evil company
and into evil ways. Neither had he starved
to death nor gone naked ;. but he had fed his
qpul on husks, and covered it with rags. In
some manner, Richard had beexi born wrong
and gone wrong. Richard's nature was in-
verted, either through fault of Fate or fault
of his own. His moral sight saw things up-
side down,' and after a while he came to
think that that was the way for them to be.
He was very acid' inside, was Richard ; and
he liked the world as little'as it liked him.
He considered the world a miserable concern.
Human creatures, in 'his, ethics, were raven-
ous beasts, fighting for the crumbs Of life,-
and tearing each other cruelly.. He mollified
his mangled conscience by. pouring into it
the oil of this sophistry. He affirmed that
there was no difference in mankind. One
was as good as another ; and, none better
than himself. They were scrambling for ex-
istence, and he was-scrambling too. Some
whined, canted, and driveled, while they
were scrambling ; but he, scorning hypoc-
risy, snarled and snapped at the hands or
feet that annoyed him. He had snapped and
snarled so much, that a furrow was drawn
obliquely across each cheek, and his brow
was knitted into a chronic frown. Cunning
was his counselor, hypocrisy his helper. In
his daily walks he met no one whom he
-would not as soon have out of the world as
in it.' To eat, to drink, and to wear, were to

him the chief ends of existence. He aspired,
however,to good eating, good drinking, and
good wearing, without a single scruple re-
specting the methods of attainment. He had
nothing to lose ; millions to gain. He had
a strong intellect, badly willed. An' ar-
rant schemer was Richard. He lived, moved,
and had his being among 'broken plots and
pyramids of abortive projects. Artifice and
shift, cabal and alternative, had a fostering
parent in Richard. They 'brooded in his
brain, and perched nightly among his fan-
cies.
Richard, while fumbling for his nightkey,
saw a lighttistreaming through the closed
blinds, and knew very well who was within.
It was his friend, his familiar spirit, his
prompter, his suggestive Satan, Duke Marima-
duke.
This man came and went athis own pleas-
ure. Sometimes he remained days and
weeks-with Richard ; then disappeared with-
out warning, and returned without notice.
His fiittings were eccentric, and as numerous
as eccentric. He. had a key to Richard's
lair, and could go in and out at will.
. Duke Marmaduke was an Englishman.
He often boasted of-his blood ; but of that
the author knows nothing, and cares less ;
being more interested in his actions than in
his fluids.
Whatever had been. his trials, sufferings,
and temptations, they had not affected his ap-
petite ; he had accumulated more fat than
grace'; and his stomach was larger than his
charities. His digestive arrangements were
of the most ample description, and had as-
sumed such rotund dimensions as to push
him backward, and give his figure a palpable
strut ; not so much indicative of pride as of
paunch. Marmaduke -had short fleshy legs,
short fleshy arms, and short fat hands. His
shortness did not stop with the members
mentioned'; he had a short neck set upon
broad shoulders. It was thick and fat, and
his throat'was white. His skin was fair, his
cheeks, puffed' and rosy-; his lips, red, full,
andtsensual, witir white but irregular teeth
showing through them. 'He had what are
vulgarly called "cat-teeth" in the angles of
his upper jaw, which, being long and sharp,
gave him the appearance of a carniverous
animal. His forehead was arched like a bent
bow, and not very high. This forehead, set
upon his round cheeks, made his face look
like a full moon, ruddy and beaming. His
hair, which was light and thin, was parted
in the middle with much care. His eye-
brows were a shade darker than his hair.
Marmadnke's eyes were small and round, and
of an indescribable gray. They shone in the
dark like a cat's. He sometimes wore specta-
cles with tortoise-shell bows, the glasses of

"4 ,'. '

0
0I
4'
0r

81BY15LA JOY.

,I


IV 1,
, rye-  4   .                .      (    n          /              f                                "         . ,
1
i"t    rS.a                                            r

-,C
y
k
'      ,r
1
l
J
1
t
_
7
}
1
.

,

11%Y1A  b'.S
which were of peculiar construction. When or ilie- fal" 9f a, foot. Eschew  eanness,
he played a friendly game of' cards,,for 'a Richaid..,"
stake large or small, at a certain fashionable  "Give me good ,heer," then, muttered
gaming-house, he invariably 'wore those tor- Parkhuret.  "With good eating and -good
toise-shell helps. They tode jauntily on his drinking'I night grow fat,.I suppose. twine
blushing nose. There vas a mystery about and Znislimen grow fat with good .eating
those glasses.                         and go  housing."
In  is  irtbosom lher' Was a flaming  " Tt's the'oi'der of nature," returned Duke,
carbuncle of large size. It was a wonder- serenely. ." Go thou and de like wise. if the
ful carbuncle  It was' full of rosy light. leanest animal can grow fat, why not man,
Sometimes its quenchiess fires looked- like with his, voracious appetite and his. vast
blood.' It flamed 'into  Richard's eyes when power of digestion?"
he was talking with Marmaduke. It hadthe  He paused;, then added:
power of a charmm for Richard." It was~ a  "You're anxious,:Parkhurst. 'Whathave
sleepless eye that winked and blinked at him. you been doing ?"
He had dreamed of that carbuncle when his  "Followingtbad counsel," replied Richard.
nights were, troubled,, and his slumbers were  " Then you have been at work, which, is
haunted.                               not-my counsel. I've always advised you
On the fat little finger of his fat right hand not to work, Richard. Work is not for gen-
Sashed a large diamond, which, like its tlemen, but for ljockheads. I have never
owner, had its fittings and disappearances, done a day's'work, and I-shan't have that to
its goings and its'comings. , It darted white think of when I come to die. I told you how
rays at Richard, and excited'his envy ; but it to be rich without work, long ago. The way
had not such a hold upon his imagination as was open before you. You had only to fol-
the carbuncle. It is, doubtful it he would low your nose to run into a fortune."
have ,touched the latter; but the diamond  ."Ishouldn't wonderif it run: any-neck in-
would have tempted him sorely, had it been to a halter," said Richard. "With your hints
In his way. There was a great 4eal of life.in and your prompting, your philosophy and
that gem, as Richard defined life, His life ydur: John Jeromene I shall be hangedlat last.'?
was appetite, nourishment, warmth, shelter. "Dear boy !" murmured Marmaduke, bland-
Richard Parkhurst entered with downcast ly. "Poor Richard is a lamb! !May his
look and reticent air. He nodded coldly to wool never go to the shears !"
Duke Marmaduke, and threw himself into   "The air was chilly, and the room was
the most convenient chair. 'It needed, 'little damp," quoth Richard, musingly.
penetration to see that Richard was 'niot in ,a "Goon, my son," said Duke, paternally,
social'iitood,                         with an encouragmg.gesture.
His friend sat by'A, grata, in which some  By this time Parkhurst had fixed his, eyes
coals were smouldering-uis:feet resting upon upon the carbuncle, and its red laine drew
the back of a Ahair in an easy manner. ie him on.
was smoking ra fine cigar, with, an' acute. ap-  "Listen, Duike. Ihav been at'Stephen
preciation of its fiavor. Wile 'the smoke Paikhursts ,house.: He, had just returned
curled lazily from his red: lips, he watched front a journey. He received mge coldly ; but
the countenance of' Riichard ; and after he perhaps with, as much graciousness as I had
had silently fathomed his sullen waters, re- reason to expect."
marked:                                  He stopped. The carbuncle became the
" You've brought'honie that miserable face color of blood.
again, Richard. 'I hate a, miserable face.  "The air was chilly and the room was
Look -at my face. My face isn't miserable, damp," he repeated. " Stephen being cold, I
is it ?"'                              gave him charcoal."
"It newer will be," answered Richard,  " Oh acoal " said Duke, nodding.
complainingly.'                          "Stephen being cold, I, gave him  hot
" No, it won't !" saidDuke, with emphasis. brandy," resumed Richard.
"Why won't it ?, Because I won't let it.' I  Duke Marmaduke took his feet from 'the
was made to keep above the tide, and I mean back of the chair, drew it ;tohim, rested the
to keep' above it. Myhead fa like a cork,; elbow of bis left arm upon it, removed the
you may push it down as much as you've a cigar from his mouth, and looked earnestly at
mind to, and it would bob up again. Keep Richard.       ,
fat,, Richard , keep fat. A lean man, never'll  " Pause t sere,"i he said, shaking his dumpy
do anything in this world. A lean mpan is finger at, Parkhurst. "Dona tell all;,leave
like a hungry dqg, halting, and sneaking, and something tomy understanding. You order
lurking around backwards, with guilty eyes' ed a' pan -of charcoal to warm your brother.
and unsettled look; afraid of his dwn shadow, But no man will sit and snuffcharcoal till he
and ready to run at the creaking of a door dies-especially one who will benefit others

I

l
1                                                                                                              J
Ott                                                                                                                                -     "                   -                        "     -      ..   " .                              _ a       r   f           r   R   "               Y       ,a              v        !       e .l" "      'F_


P'A
*1'

by his eath._We cannot e pea such good-
bas on earth. There is- a 'point fidiard,
where benevolence must stop. Stephen not
rein; likelfs: in a ndrint  gaditiont cend
'his life 'in smidke, you gave him brAa and
'tvatei with adi'ug in it.' The drugwoi~ld'de-
lude -his senses, and the charcoa wottld 'do
the rest. To cheat his watchfulness 1q opheat
-him of life."
"A shrewd guess. Always 'awigerd   al-,
'Ways uspecting ; always tracing  chief.
What do you think of i, Mimadu e
"I will tell you toupaorrow "huswere the,
oth r, slpigging his shdilders.
.4 o-norrow I' excliined Riehai'd. "It
will be a long to-morrow, and a' longtnight.
'here never will be 'auch a fight anid or-
"s Spare sentiment, Richard., 'eep your,
head' atop of the water, nd spare us' senti-
nitent. 'Leanamen are apt'to niorali e."
" The- whole tlin'g;" said 'Richard Parlk-
hurst, "witsrnpretneditated.' The opportu-
nity came unasked expectede, though not,
insought. I seized upon a thought and acted
upon it at-once."
"Pidhe loolc atyou'?" askdDuke,qgnetly.
4Strangdly, how and then.' Stephen always'
bad ivay ofmakingme shiter.:e, told me
the plaintruth,-too,' and 'it eit lik' a knife.
'hate him ftr hid cold, biingsarcaim."'
The carbuncle seemed to wink, afring-
1y, at Richard. He mentally nam  it the{
dhvi)'e eye.'
" Did he drink thebrandy V" inquired Duke
Mirmaduke. '
"To the last diops," replied Richar :
W"Whatconcealid the taste ?"
It -was flavored' =with' nutmeg, and was
sweet with sugar."
4i And Johnr Jdrome'was in the secret ?
H0 'knows what bhe is there 'br,""qdoth
iihamd,' frowning.
"An accomplice is a bad thing," observed
Duke, thoughtfully. " I think your plot will
fail, =Richard. 'The thought itself was shrewd
enough, and was no doubt suggested by your
demot:r .,                       . '
S    yA M .demon was here with the carbuncle,",
said 1Richarj, nodding at the namingg psone.
"The chances are against: your 'drug, and
against tour!charcohl," 'added Duke Marna-
duke. "'Your half-brother was' not bhorg a.
fool. A,'pehetrating devil walks at h4s elbow
and; inspires 'hin with inning.' I have
watched'Stephen Parkhurst somewhat. Let
as suppose, howedr,:that the attemptwill'be
successful. You will be pretty much where
you 'are nbW. Thuerei be' a -rincess 'be-
tween -you' and tli' throxie. - Your relative
has daughter.I The girlhas:no stomach' for
chireoal, perhaps.' yhe may'have a childish
fanc to liveO to ount some pf her father's

hu  reds of thousantsp. Thatwoultd be awle-
-watd, I ichiard."
" armadi e threw the stump of hiM cigar
into 'th6 gate, and glanced at Parkhiu'st, to
see wha his fMce Was pressingg.
"Tine enough to  hink of that," he answer-
ed, with tna'tiende. havee somne crude
notions of my own; b1u if I fail  expehicnt,
I'll ask afat devhlo help me."
"'Better come t mi;" daid puke, smiling .
"I have been to ' u tpopuc'," responded
Parkhurst, shutting Ihs yds,:to shut Qt t the
red glow of tle carbunle. 'I used to read
Milton when I wast" boy. Yo     naae ine
thint of the toel th t'Wbispcrecl  1 the'ea of
Eve ; it was 'a out a p le, I teliey. A n
ipple dreadful dispord mae. I hate frit. Gut
down all appletreea, Duke, and there'lI I
no more of that." .      .
" You sae. a tree, yourself, Pick ;l a
shriveled 'tre: Your' foliage is dead; our
sap is cold;; youi bark's Withered, and you
bear no fruit. Iie,: you. dco bear fruit; but
it is not fruit niedt for repentance. Ahe, Rich-
ard ! Yo willie cut doW4 sobi. You have
cumbered the garden of Nature 'a long time.
I have digged ibout yop; r'have watered
your toots with fy tears. -  idhard, I have
eh austed the arts of borticulture in vain.
With all Inf scraping and triimming, youdlo
not thrive.. There is a dry-rot in you, Rih-
ard,'that the devil cannot cure."
The kind-hearted gentleman was patriafch-
al in'his -tendernei.' Oondescending benig-
nity beamed oh hidbxubescent lieeks 'fls
fresh liis smiled m soft mockery of Richard.
He was like the velvetpay 9f puss then she
draws'in tlie'pointed dlaws an pushes it out
gracefully for a game of catch.
"How can you be so calm and content,
when I em 'dn:$he rack'ot suspense !" ex-
claimed Richard. "'u provoke me with
your serenity! I'iihk of the situation-rea.
lize it if you can. I haVe contemplated thi*
deed for a longtime; but have' not felt'aits
horrors till now. I am sweating with seci'et
dread, -and you sit.and show your white teeth
at me.' Think of the' blistering coals'; the
escaping gases; the subtle, penetrating in-
yader of the citadel 'of existence, pouring in
at every gatO of life to make death. Picture
him .alone, standingby his bedside, igvwing
straugaly sleepy. He'yawns, he yieldsto t he
stealing stupor:' he makes a feeble i ttempt to
throw off his dressing-gown;' but his failing
fingers' fall faltering to his side, and stagger-
ing forward, he sinks supinely upon his
couch. All things swim and swirl before his
sight. Sense,'and sound, and eight go unt to-
gether.. Pa'lidness grows upon his cheeks,
and deadly dews gather upon his brow." His
'chiti drops, his respiration becomes difficult,
and rattles 'in his throat. He inhales death.

'8wy: IAA , QY'.

i
'
,?
;. .  '.
6
i
4
i

,I

,.r' F" .y Y

SIiikL soY.2
'that  w h iich  w arm s  hi  kid llh s  i .  ..H is  heh l .qa d  self-guideil  villain.  I  m ind l i
pulses sink, his blood grow thik,,his heart- cahui, and sit on au-even keel. My cofite-
throbs cease; and6 themachine TU sdoWn ;; nance i smooth and full, w t'th e.florid
and there is no more sleeping and waking."  blush of health and cos tet upon it. I liave
Richard broke frond the chiriu of the car- a good appetite. and a good 4igestion.
bundle, and looked wildly at Duke.     giever work. I shave never soiled my aids,
"Pretty, upon my soul. Go on, Dickard." with the dirt of this earth--they re ast fafr
Parkhurst dropped 'his tdce into his hands; and plump. as a woman's. I conceal
lie cursed iis luck, the world, and' everybody  thouiits, and I coi'geal my
that lied in it.                        ie      y wits, as a genteman  ou,  ive
t Yodi might have gokte rather, Richard, I know that I must take care of.niyself. I
added Duke. "'You might have painted the have given up the idea'of legacies andg eaps
sur rise in the morning;'the consternitiosi; of gold. Im a manipulator. t nianipuiate
the hurry-slsurry of feet ; the hurly-burly; the tools of this worlii, till their' money passes
the ferment ; the tumult; -the riot ;the tum- front their poclketh iuto niipe. $ometn es ,It
pus; the vortex; the whirlpool'; the topsy  is difficult-sometuge it is easy; bit, at the
turvy; the babel within. Then conic Ursula hardest pinch,1 refuse 'to give up an die.
and Bibylla. Then come weeping aiid wail- You are of a different order. , I am a sweet
rig'; screeching and screaming; whining villain ; you are a sour villain-in fact, acyh-
and' whimpering ; sobbing and. sighing ; mut- Ical, crabbed, coiplaniung, corroding, con-
tering' and" murmuriri  Then appears a temptible, careWOrn villain. You are trucu-
funeral, with hearse and horses; coaches andlent, disagreeable, malevolent, evil-minded,
carriages ; drapery and drapery ; snIiveliig disobligin, grim, churlish, surly, andpritdr-.,
and driveling; with tiestly monodies on the giving. ' Yogafre cold-earted, but not cool-'
dead ; jeremiads, elegies, and dirges ; and a headed. ' You are 'arulian, a savage, a mis-.
solemn laudation of virtues which he neve- anthropic monster. You make people  ate
had. "That's the way it goes; Richard. Putyou by your rudeness. You snap aid snarl
six feet of earth on a sinner and'he becomes before you are hurt ; ant you mistake fear foi
a saint. .Take your family-parson, and set relnorse, and starvation fo1. repentance. Your
him upon the parish-tostrum, with a book in ashes of consciegce are lik  heat-ligb ihn ,
his hand, 'over your cold corpus, and hell without report and .of' brief iuration. I O
whip you up t heaven-in the twinkling of net think I 'ever found so uncomfortable a
an.eye .especially if du've paid your church- kneve as you are, Richard."
tithes promptly and without grumblin  I
see one man followingg that funeral, w ose  By this time, Richard wds under the eye of
form is bent with voiceless woe. It i a thin, the carbuncle again.  elistened to Marma-
lean man, rather shabbily dressed, and half duke with a lowering expression and ocea-
brother to the deceased. I' pity that man. Sional gleams of- fierceness.
He 'is' full of tears and fears. His cheeksI' "I. get along; with you after a fashion,"
hav'e such a water-shed, that he nearly *ashes' continued Duke. "I have given yOu advice
his relative out of'the grave where they have and bbrne your ill-temper. I have helped
laid him. That sorrowful Creature looks like you much, first and last.. I shall expect snu
you, Richard."                      ,    uarters in the brown-stone house, Richard.
'It is  impossible to describe the ininuating Don't prove tingrateful. Whenyour courage
sweetness'of Marmaduke's' tone. The words' halted, I pricked it on. When you Were
flowed from his smiling lips' like honey; hungry, I threw ou such crusts as I had.
while his eyes shone on Richard benevo&amp;  You've been troubled by nobody's friendship
lently.                                 but: mine, Try to be clever. I have lent
"Mocking devil'!" murmured iichard., you John lerome-make much of hiui. You,
"91n i' villain-a foulvillain; but' I don't will end in Macbeth if you have courage
scoff at everything. I can do something be- enough ; but drop his fancies when the deed
sides' smile. I.can be serious when there Is is done. Do not catch a diseased nud from'
occasion. You have no conscience. Imagine nirder. I Would' not live in the brow-stone
yourself standing in these boots."      house with a inoping, muttering. mistrustfmi
Richard thrust out his feet.  '       man who, through fear of justice, leada ,life
"I never stand in patched boots," said' of misCry. This ends' my sermoni., Whpn
Duke. "Now, mark me well, Richard.. You you are, ready, I will tell you what to.do with
see that I am holding up my finger. INow Ursula."
look straight at me till I drop my finger. I  He settled back leisurely In his seat,
have heard you patiently. I hear every one stretched his legs across the other chair, and
patiently that "chooses to wag his- tongue, shut his eyes peacefully. He looked like a
Coolness and self-government are the essen- man with a good: conscience. It was a very
tials of success. if I am a villain, I am a easy, oily conscience; and' sip slipped over it


2h

8IB YL A TJY..

with wonderful facility, leaving neither traeh,
stain 'nor sc r, visible to the common eye.
"h rsula " repeated Richard.'
That little word made him muse.- That
was a questions which troubled him.' Ursula
walked' continually before' his inaginstion.'
She gave' hii ferar'd peplexit. Sliould'
the brasier 'of charcoal'.doits oigle 'upon'
Stephn   arkurst,'Ihis datighter would 'be'
left  destroy the frtits of the first drime
apd lad'hiato theh efpetration oiWnntter,,
u natural 'd villsia ous. He plunged into
a horrible bath of'meiaysib'.  E tied to
decide'which was the west' thesendig of
a y'oung'girl tQ heaven; dr of' an old Jman to a
do btful place. He floiuidered about in this
black pool of fancies;n'ifd If for a, moinent
during tiat'long night he fell into a doze, he:
dreamed of Charcoa.
CHAPTE ,VI.
TRE EBoWN-sTO E 'oUSE.
Tlare was 'consternation at', the brown,
Stone house.' Stephen Parkhurgwas found
dead in his bed. The roo t  agsin disprdgr.
There was a brazierr with 'ster'ashes in it
upon the hearth. . Near 'the 'brasier was
Stephen's eas-clair. . Stephen was lying
partly upon1his sde, dressed as he had been
the previous'day. His face was pale--his en-
pressi n  'eacflI He i'had not struggled
much withithe conqueror o1 men' hut sink
quietly intd'the arms of death.  ierd Was a
strong smell of carbon in the boom. 'T1he
evidences, of self-destruction were so appar-
ent that 'an inquest' was 'thought u sheces-,
sary.  The servants bf the house wagged,
their heads, and in low tones 'Ave their ver-
dict of self murder. Fifth avenue" said the
same.' 1ew York repeated it ; and .thus it
went oit- into .the world.-Bg soije, itlwas
thought str nge that a ,nan with so' much
moneyshould'take a carbonic bath,.aid feel
it' for his interest to leave his principal be-
hind; while 'others wdnderdd that he had
net tilled.lhimself before; to shirk looking
after so ihuch property., Very poor and very,,
rich ppople have much trouble,. 'nd get out
of it by exchanging heat fdr celd, animation
for inanimation, ;certainty for uncertainty,
the light of the stin for the darkness of the
grave,, soundndss .for rottenness.  Modern
inveitidns finish ready""  means 'f eternal
e it. 'Peathis 1s a plunge into the ground.
The su positlou5 Stephen went down among
the 'clods" and' there was lamentation at the
brown-stole h Ouse.
Rchard larkhurst was very friendly.  l
heard the news early in the morning, aid'
was soon at the -Acene of the visitation. He
assumed, agthori  at 'once; and, ,in the ab-
sence'bf' Magnu Drake',took Stephen's keys
from  his 'pocket, unlocked his secretary,

opened a private rawer, and, to forestall
cQntingencies, abstracted his 'relative's . last
will and testament, and put it into his pocket
This accordpiebed; he went into subdued
melancholy, and bore up very well under his
bereavement.
Sibylla troubled him.' ,er genuine grief
was an accusation of his crime, . She shrank
from him, toQ,'and 'that displeased him and
gave hih uneasiness. Trifles disturbed'him.
His fears were easily awakened; *It was plain'
to see that. ale 'avoided' him. More than,
once, hp' sav her ldoking at the body with a
strange expression,'which, with all his gun-
ning; he could not understandd, le made up
his mind that dhe, distrusted him. 4 guilty'
person, has n oapetite for distrust '. The
greater the crime  loss he cares to have it,
suspected. Spspicon is a~seed that grows
rapidly whenItibgins to germinate. He did,
not Wish that p    cnlfie seed °to sprout at the
bron-stone house..
When Ursula    came, Richard   quaked.
Sibylla had givenhim trouble enough, and,
li was tired of the 'teat's Whichhe hadcaused'
to flow. :Ursula was lovely even in her grief.
Richard' slunk away out of night. Re did,
not feel'happy. He was full of evil ex ecta-
tions ; but they brought small consolation
for the wickednessIe had done and ths risk,
he  hpd run. His work was not .completed
buit comniienced. A, winding; dangerous road,
was before hiiwhich,he haldhosen to walk
e.   had ,fears of 'Consequences, but;no
scruples. "His dreadof discovery;was greater
than remorse.''
'Duke  Marmadpke was hiji- counselor.
That a crime had bean coimpitted, lie afect-
ed to be"-ignorant, and would not permit.
Richdrd to make,,a plain avowal in his pres-
ence. Marmaduke ,wsheditp be innocent of
all;knowledge of Stephen's decease and'its'
cause. ' Ie 'was too fastidious in his notions
and too cautious, in his character 'toshare,'
without hypocrisy, Richard's secret, The
instigator and encourager of the suppositious
murder,, and at, he rt the accomplice of
Richard, with subtle policy chose to wear a
'vail of ionocence, and to; ignore studiously'
what had been done. He:smoked his i ar,.
watched Richeid's countenauce, and' adrotly
directed his mxovements. Mariaduke Man-
aged to be at' the 'guieral vithqt the com-,
plicity of Richard, ,who was surprised-and
startled at seeing hiin. le did not'notice
Richard;. but, during the few moments that
he remained in sight, ,kept his face turned
toward the two 'principal mnguyners, Ursula
'and Sibylla. The, half-brqther felt uneasy.
The' presence of'this man;worried him. ,Re
was thereto observe the,'twa girls ; to study
their characters; to draw  conclusions of
each. He was silently obtaining that wisdom

,
r
i
'.r
r
0

I
Ii

SIYULLA 4OY,
which is nQt profitable unto righteousness.  They presently fell to plotting.  Fuller
He withdrew' quietly, and, when Richard thought she could use Richard, and Richatd
again looked' for him, ie v*a not to beseen. thought .he could use. Fller.. Both saw
lMIagnus Drake was very useful and very something glittering in the distance,, and
chlm " The gfi  of tie tlvo.gii'is isturbed looked forward with extectant and g ready
hiin nowgnd then ;'but 1le quick recovered eyes. Thegroped aftereace other in'the'in-
his equanimity.  His deportment toward tricate wliiings of their own natures.' They
theyn'w spaternal. Itswas evident t 'Ricli- soil touched' hands.Th
ad that they relied oi him for .support :an " ave yoi: noticed the-grief of CT-sula ?*
idr al strength  He foiesaw a struggle wth ask'dRichasrd, ore day when ther had eons,
Ste   n  arkhurst nman of business. .11e to understand eachoeher.
percec d in him a most formidable comnba-'  "I'hay'e noticed both her grief andher do-
tait who would' yield the battle-grund ui portment," answered Lucretia, mysteriously.
Williiglyfighting as he retreated; - ,   "You are a.woman of pbservation" added
- chaid returned to his'lodgings in deep, Richard, 'bowing as if he reverenced hoer in-
thought, fully  determined to finish what he tellect.
thdeu.       .A feverish dmbition worked  "There are things which one cannot help
within him. He did riot feel as le:had felt seeing,;" said Miss Fulle .'
before the crime. His life was unnatural,  " Poor Vrsula.!" sighed Richard. "I had
and he slept less soundly. Tuke Marina- hbped that this malady would not appear.
duke, however; was unchanged.  Ie had a tut it is hereditary, and grief' develops it.
good appetite ; he was. sleek and unctuous,' What shall we call it ?"
and kept his head above ithe tide.        Richard spoke softly, and leaned toward
Miss Fuller, with some anxiety of expression.
CHAPTER VII.,                 "There is but one name for 'it," responded
LUCiRETIA FULLER.             the housekeeper, without hesitatie1. 'And
Miss Lucretia Fuller, borne onward byr the that name is insanity."
current of tinge, had shot beyond her youth-  "It runs in the 'family," said Richard,
fli years; and was getting, intQp(he numerals thoughtfully. madnesss is in the blood 'of
that are'pairicularly odion's to women. She the 1arkhursts. It is a sad, a serious thought.
was housekeeper at the broWn-atone house. To be out of'o e's self is to be in misery.'
She was thin inperson, rather .above the or-  "To be out f one's self is to be in a mad-
dintry standard'height; with sharply-defined' houso,'' answered Lucretia Fuller, in a cahm
features ; gray, speculative eyes.; firm,, thin straight-onward manner.
lips, and a quick, watchful  expression.  Richard thrilled from his head to his toes.
Thues far, she had traversed the road of life  "It is well that We have mnet," he said,
alone.' For-reasons of'her own, slie had lean- slowly, looking at her searchingly. " There
ed upon no male;arm for support. iShe  a is sdinetimes great gain in maki  common
either not been pleased with the beaux, or the. stock of wit and invention. ,ha  we walk,
bdux had not been pleased : with he. Miss ion together?"
uller was iot lyithout ainbiion. She aspired'  here was something peculiar in' Richard's
to ease an4 afiuence. She was protd; end'd-, tone. Lucretia ,Diller shrugged her shoul-
sired wealth because it would gratify lier  ers, and laughed ironically.
pride. She Scorned common people and ith  "Walk on togetherI' slie repeated. "Whith-
epinoa 6lot of humanity. She was waiting er shill'we walk? 'there are many paths in
for some' 'rich gentleman to fall, like a ripe this world, Richard''arkhnrst. 'some are
apple, at her feet-to be devoured. She ' was straight, some are crook d. Some are for one
a lurker ,onthe highway of life, biding ,her to, walk in,,some arefor two or more.; I
time, and lying low amidst.the concealments would not like to be crowded upon the way.
of her character.                       'I Would had a path wide enough to fdel free
Shi had 'schemed for Stephen Parkiurst; and easy in."
but that shrewd person had walked, untrap-  "Mutual' advantages make mutual'ties,"
ped, over her snares.. He either did not -see observed Richard.  We helpeach other to
her' purpose, or did not wish to see it. His help ourselves. ~It is. the' universalbond.
apparent decease opened a 'new field of am- It is the only brotherhood that existS."
bition. Lucretia and Richard rew friendly. "4. good thought Ib* a bad than,"'ansWered
T'ney mt "often, and tlieir acquaintance Liicretia. "I know'not that all trr as you
ripered'into intimacy.  Whatever   might say, but I know that some are. I am. ready
have been her age, she was not so old' as t' to scheme, when scheming promises a equet
have lost her appetite for flatterf; and Rich= benefits' I see to what point you are drdtiiig
a1d did not neglect to 'supply that pleasant' If I drift with you I shall expect soiniething.
pabulum  whenever it could be skillfully I cannot afford to drift' idly to sea. I am not
administered.                            one to shut my eyes, to.be delgded ad to-be


iwi .iTanot died-dthatred drea   shelll get'lon     together. You take
re tdpo fon rught.i  r  11 ichar  corimbgAshnse views o things, and I do lik
k ti-it  ghtsha t  o.ry will, R     cules deqonon s'nse in women."'
I willi. I acknovwledge-n master :inlne  'I knoW who stands in your way," ressri.
aid 9lal., You cannot use medforthe -tVed' Lhcietia, without minding hiS c    1pi-
taimpen pyour ends,  d;thenshhr me he-: nient. "Ven people standing otir w ,
cause you have dotte withie a  tha;thee Io' s  the  to stand otit of it. One wo
a  to doh you will do well tb 4ndM stid  e    itch than fooli It it 'nat 'ali
r     tiedart., You md e,'a aiate4 litp I ,t ,  nunnis nation of man. Of coif'
have none.'c f                            "ian tubehonest; but the ment al al
"A master I" repeated Nlichard, fio   o Ursula       siay rddtt to your adva Mke, an
ggeyo    r   I ere. It i 'a i at'thd
L% re apuller spilled,, and 'skid    dedr'child aread  evinces the enp   F
arnma u e " d l be   . atel   magnesh. e'predi position    s  nin
ichard changed color, and gazed at I,Ai m-   1e'r exce i  rve giief inb e
cretpm wite    gned, surprs.  She had nOaueboyi       hr fi   of di   ton
made an announceetthat ' tattled im. 'thewik pkg s of hereyed, and ,n the 'bolis
He thoughtof the carcol vapor =tiand d166,ofb ul speech.'
df Stehen, d ad in his bed., Wre this won  "It is tp me ruM evident,"replie4 trich
ae's suspicion 'on the.alert  He loolped at a-d, nodding his head; but avoiding t'e eyed
het', steadily, to get an answer fromher luiet ofgufhetia-e      eu   d
face ; but Miss Fuljer'afae wa i "otlh                           " td- "ih lresuined th
hbbit'f Wansweringqu Yods. se'knewhow  latter, in a low' tole. "She looks without
to control'her'  cil rtdcles.         seeing."
uch a -n* I         "io '""  icdllhard,  "And 'sees 4lthomt looking,'' added Rich-
moodily ; "ut' he' goes lAs  , and I go ar   nxious to come quickly tothe support
mine. I kn;W that such a man lives ;;but roc his in friend.
hpw heives i inpre than Iknow. I or does  Insaiut i a stidy,", said Lueretia.- "M
it disturbn me, that'I knout no more than I father w in  ie twenty years; Be  dac
kiow_"                                  fpad in a ro'owithout fire, and' fought ith
" You caneotcbmfuts ne  'oth, y knowo' devil ll the tinle. .sister was insane r  i.
and yqu'dont know," rephed'ucretia Fl gref,'and'went al g t mutter
ler.  ' I kido that you know less of what  oods; now 'laughug at soie Wild fatcui
you don-t ongw, tha youdo of What you do snow nioping in mbrbid abstraction; now
know. XnoWing that' is' knowi1  what, I ,starin iat the wall-; iow trgng figured in
k ow ; and so no more of that.. Iave seen he air;'now sinkllg into a corner, like a
you with huke Marma'duke; and I marked lha p-of rags; glbhbr g and moaning."
you well.'  s maprier to you  ss confident,  Fearfl state I"'nttrmured Richard. "You
and "sonde ''At' hidre than assured;: while know but too Well 'the premonitory .sytp-
yours to him was alject, and somewhat: less toms.. Lai,6  glad .that I am riot alone iii my
than loving. That tiere a something 'be- stuspicions of Ursula. As her only relative,
tw'een you 'that is to b# kept in your inuial) I must hve a care of her. I hardly hellevae
discretion, is so palpable' tO 'ne't*at I shall in madhouses.. In one way hd another; :'
not t yofl to';say either yes or nb to it. I have received the impression that the  arA
dard say; imay be nothing more tlan coin- humbugs; and that 'doctor, keeper, and at-
mon str fte g'for braad and shelter, or, the ten'aft, aife persons open to bribery and ccr-
cpmolu' tIowship of necessity, rowing o  'ru'ption."
of thel1nitier6t to eat andlive. Your present  ""unati asylums are for pubo and pri-
teio rt 'jco ifA is my' opinion,,asd tells nje vate conveieh 'ce,"' remarked .uretia know-
where tod loktfor an ardhaconttive,, a shred ingly., "Fut oneainto an asyluni, and, if yu
designed . Do not take the trouble to acquit' have 'idoney eOnough, that person is at good as
or: conyc1 yourself, for I am not sitting in dead. Buck up your alleged' lumiacy witk
rd actions."                           ready payment, lth a sidelo g glance, and a
"  o      n mttered Richard, "should' wink, aid the patients malady will, never
be Mrs. Duke   .liaduke."                   . mend: Poor peaple cannot do much with in-
ie' beg'n to 'fear t at he would not be sanity,, it' e, kicked, out of door by the
evenly mated with Lucretia: Fuller. In' arit lunatic at-board&amp;  Those that mniter to
she would Certainly claim supremacy. H6'Iininds rdisdade 'inust of necessity bdpaid.
evidently could not use her,, and eajole her: 'Iloeto's have wives, and children Wli mthsi
afterward. Once with him, ii his cabal, sheeat amid wea' 'The world is theiroystei r aid
was to be equciliated, and feared ever after. y'the must open it, by faireor foul; The  ther
But lie had 'gnk 'too far to recede. He smiled rmdst have silks, and the ulfspi-ingmust;Le
atiicretiayppiyovingly, and' said':     dolls and tops. Gentility mustlie kept-up;.

,(

Professioial 1P°1e nitte godo  iddl ;     tho slt of consigning tier to a mad-
thoughall the  oldo a -ot. Itfri udiitl  house is painful. It may not come tothat,
hab ' is;that' 'tfi teoe ihfe riir   "z hoi "  er.
than CoPnsien,' anditIr tlda kind of i  It will oe 'td that," ffrmed Lucr4.
whiqh is tie'parehof reiii6! P eBe'wi   %y tiawith eimph ' b. " avd yo   seen four
more fb* bad 'dtib  tliau foir oo I dnesf 6 brotiefi  h swiT
the aeg ofei'lidentt thi iith r hidcrul   ; 'She i6ur Seb  at iins
ptb                                                          Ho'4iot sfcTn~th '&amp;~i:  j avoided
,ohate. .ea'y utse. IThvecareful oiifi   f h er' id
toobe      nisw of %iLeln n'ithLi       et Mag Ois Prattie     .to titt
rittdnsd Ile ire'iconoas gn nt etohe ten= has taken possession of St ih ' sp.per.h
deribitek oflierfile s er vi  a hh-li  "Biioutd nid willddd  ubiti", smil-
ndbirs; e should be well * e shaded that an in her covert .
such discipline s'n dfl." A i gie pesou "iThat is hig 'attairiot .mite," retired
sinktiio the  iniiihi1part of his Or her na- Richard, curti  .  Their 'sluld' be a *1
tuie; iid in' itiitibnss arkiuidals'iley dae liogev'er. Peies' s he chooses to keep.it ,1
tiated ; yet I  t'ild inotiiavv'6r it o, Richard." the  dhckground for 'emonas of 'his own.
She'tbucbe4 Iir 'li ht$  'pbn the dem  d Wills had  beedr tampered with.by winning
sailgd." L6oh   a 'tlief wle she smile d,  ttoeys'and p rbna who had not' been
Rdhptradthought her - face ntereting  She thought of in connection with the tetator
had architdss; ;she a ild;self government ; shiplite'uddenl$femetded from aobs6lrity With
had ondentratibn of puro6s ; h'e headtteii- fotunes."
city of will.  Would site' cdt 'he lt' i witti  "Suchimay he; oin' n ' deatin' Ursula
him?' Would it nt bsfe toash hot, "toyoke #661 'deaf child, is not ioo agalpnkt the
with het shouf sie asent? :Tchard put thotisthid ontih sncies' of fe, and the fand
ifietsubje t'off for futtdre tonsideratioh.' ' ilf-idelitance Qna  -blows'hei lIke d
"There' ie oie' besidesd Migiu  rhatke ' he ,shlad  'tlero iliid harm Ii'e"ercising a
said" that'I fedti, , and thaf id Sib'ifti ." Sh' littlersjetulatioil and naatral'fotle;ost bf ci-
i youngliut her tellect'hlse a'shate  e-dclation.V Should she fade ,we id' an  j
She h  ai ifriocefad, hilt there is'know1l lum, ygo, being next of kin, tithn netd
edgein her eye. She ok at rne,"she looks dispu te outright, Will step wRhpiit opposi-
S -gain; she does cot ceab aueining me up  tin i to' the dead man's slhes e i det
sdingsubtracting dividing; and all that" table, ' el ihis bed, and receiehi ihdon s
"ibylla is -i' sngular' child," 'responded ino thdukn. Shbuld"I be  dmetubered h
Lutretia.' She has talent; 'uickhese, intuit  Would  ou aetiin ilnd the'laddeilby which
tlon: She *111 "cotl it- the lunacy of Ur- you iotinted to iatlueicei- 'Wealth uiahes
sua at every'turn, phde' -and development. sone 'ien insoleht., But inolence'woi-t do
She will stand 'at the ed±iel's of bur designs with'Me, Richard when I h ve a hitght to
afiaueet:the din the' face with unexpected something better'. Think well, ,and nio e
a'ru'rintO.'an     frdwith the'fresh' enthusiheni of forvar'd withdiscretioni. 'Thre' aie some
girlish friendship."'  'y'              steps that cdn't 'be trodden backward when
"She knows somethingg" said Richard, in onice'taken:. Walk slowly, catitiously."
amynteriohs whisper:                     Sheotr ted ,her broWs an'd looked fr
"I 'have noted consciousness upon her ly at' flichid' who asked
daee," answered Lucretia;r"but' of what I  "What would you llkd"
know not. '.Stephen Parkhurst died 'raid-  "Nothing extravagant,"' she tnsAwered; llft
dently!"   -in herehoulders. "An establishifndnt'lt the
"D ath is- ih the world," -said Richard, snbrbs' 'ol1d 'please m '' A neat house, t
"ad we cant help it." " pretty garden, tasteful wallis, with eharning
"It matters not'to rhe," resumed Lucretia, shrubbery, a. ater-view o  one side, vines
with inruffled serenity. "But'wereI rich, I creeping up to'the roof,'birds singing in the
would not drink tie smoke of"charcdal-till I foliage in1 sinmer,'With' patriarchal trees to
had exhausted,all other pleasures.' A mere break the 'northern winds in winter. I hve
setas ion is scarcely worth dying'for, though simple ideas of lividig. Ishoitld desire-but 4
life  made up of sensations."   -       single serVent. For exercise, I wodld walk
"' eath is c, sensation that'I do"1ot covet," in: the gfounds, or ride my White' pony on
said Ulehaid, " and charcoal is a, sensation the beautiful turnpikes. 'An ineonie of a
that endsall 'sensations,sand ushers 'in eternal thousand a yeat will' content ne., I am-rea-
inseisibilily.- I see ino usensd in rushing upon sogable Richard Parkhurst. 'Mairy persons
death.  Ill notkill myself, I'll 'warant."  woulddsire aiOre."
"You will not die at yoir own expense,"  " You are quiteinoderate In'yoir wishes,'
remarked Lueretia;. playllly aid Richard, d'yly. " Iwill make few'preh-
"" But "to return," said Richard, * o the ises ; bumt dyoumay rely upon sorib thotistidda
Indtter of Ursula's insanityi As herh-ela'tivd in haud, should Iever possesdtephen's r.

'° 1
1
_l
- ,}:

E.
f

"i.  .
+.
13


28                       B1BYLL ; JOY.
states. Ypprreward shall be in prop wtior to a id neglected nothing.  e did :otsventure4
your services.  .a-r                    ' o attendhis own funeral; but,from a conve-
"Do not underrate me," answered Lucre- ment window,sawthe dismall cortege roll by.
tia, witcfnrmness. "1Withiynassistance you 9ne carriage fixed his attention ; fr it con-
wills  cred without it, you will fail. Suc- tamed Ursula, Sibylla, and Richard.  He
cess an  failure are before you  alcyour felt both resentment and pity.:! Had there
c1qice,uickly.To-day, I am in  ert; been, nothmg to guide him but the impulses
to-morrow, I may be out of it, and beyond of th moment,,  would have rushed from
yopr purchaseat any price. Think of meas his concealment, ,and dragged, hip to theta
an enemy, Richard,1'                     pavement, and pullicly denounced him. , He
She held u es; finger and shook it at him, put a strong  treat uppn himself, and, with
plIyfully, smiling the while.    ,.      compressed.hp, and contractedbrow, saw the
"The Fateeandl Ifuries forbid !" exclaimed prpcession wind out of sight.
ijicliard. t'1ill think of you as a friend  Magnas Drake.visited, tephen by;stealth;
a d helper.. I shall rely upon you. and I.ill and thefirst great shock of the ordeal being
and do make every concesion that isremason- past, adhered to him faithfully. After cons
able and adequate to the otices performed, siderable discussion of the subject, they de-
So, let' the insan~ityi go on ; let the signs of cided that it would be best, for the present,
madness be mupliped; let all the eccentric to avoid Richard. Several things were to be
phenomena appear ; let fantasy play its thought of. The name of Norman Drew
part; let sympathy follow the patient, and might not be sufficient to impose upon the
pity tell its tale to ready;ears. Let. rumor credulity of the half-brpther. A cast of the
spread report; ad gossip blister its busy eye, a turn of the head, an intonation of the
tongue inrepeating te story of her malady. voice, , or an unguarded expression might
Doubt not mythh; for, come what m y, we awaken suspicion in Richard's brain. But
must go togetherr. Who knows what may what would he suspect? ,,Was not the plot
happen; what cl~ancenmay fall;:what changes so complicated, so unheard-of, so much be-
may come; what eddies of life may seize us yond ordinary foresight, so far removed from
and hurry us on."                       paltry Conti vance, that P~ere was no data
aDon'tcoun on the eddies," retorted Miss for suspicion to start from?  Stephen be.
Fuller, arcing her .neck, and pluming her lieved that he had shot out of the circle of
pride a little for the occasion  " The tides of command probabilities. Would he or could
fortune are deceitful, and- may bear us so far he imagine that abody had been substituted
that the reflux waves will not bripg us back for Stephen Parkhurst's ? Would it occur to
to the shore. Wait till the eggs are chickens him that Norman Drew had ,deceased at the
and tl. chickens'are brooded, before ypu opportune moment, and, by paying thelastisol-
progn tigate. .L hands sometimes touch ; emn debt of human nature, rendered a strange
hearts meet ;but, in' a venture like ours, the service, to'his foster-brother ? _surely, all this
reverse is more likely to happen. Look you was too unlikely, too monstrous to , dream-
for the ost will, and leave me to lopk after the ed of, even by the artful Richard. 'Thus rea-
failing reason of Ursula. So, no more. Be not s ned Stephen,; thus he communed with
too conscious of my presence when near me ; himself ; thus lie talked with Magnps Drake'
and perhaps it would be well for you to feign a But thedeductions of reason and the findings
dislike of me. You shall hear a good ac- of fats are not always in unison, and so a
count     - mesoon."  .                 ugous concealment was determined upon.
With a nod 'and a smile, Lucretia. Fuller Stephen Parkhurst resolved to.take his walks,
left the room; and Richard went to his lodg- in the evening, and in tl ose , quarters of the
in, thinking, of his new ally,           city where he would be least likely to en-
_---             counter ,Richard., If he walked under the
CHAPTER VIII.                eye of day, he would observe  'eater care
BICHARD Is HAUNTED.            respecting the streets he' shoudtraverse.
Full of his design, and infieyible in his ex- But one cannot count with certainty upon
treordinary purpose, Stephen Parkhurst left the movement, of another - , o, one eveng,
his luxurious home and went into voluntary . Stephen and Richard met  Lie was wa king
exile. H$e took humble apartments ia an on the Battery when this happened. Both
Obscure part of the city. .  e assumed the involuntarily paused. It seamed destined that
nameof, Norman Drew, and used every pre- they shoia d meet each other., Th effect upon
caution thaat' ingenuity could suggest to in- Richiard was instant and marked. He stopped,
crease the resemblance 'and strengthen the recoiled, and inatlnctively put opt his hands as
deception, Hei practiced his new character, if to repulse anunwelcome object.. Itseeine
and bore it constantly in mind. lie imitated to him that Stephen Parkhurst had arisen
Norman Drew's . nauner of spealing and from   ie tomb, and was standing before him.
walking. Ue remembered every peculiarity, Neyer had the resemblance of Stephen's

S1mYLA JOY.                                  52
foster-brotherbeen so palpable:. it was more  " Was Stephen Parkhurst In this mood
than that-it was startling. Richard's heart when you left him?" asked tel factitigu'
throbbed violently, and, or ,a few seconds, Norman Drew, pressing steadily;upon hia,
the consciousness of guilt made hiin sick and with question on question.
faint. He struggled to overcome his tempor-  "Toward me he changed,!' returned iec
ary weakness, and, with a smile on, his pale ard. " He confessed that he had done me in-
lips, stammered: ,justice, and said : 'Forgive'me, Richard.' ,o
" How do you do, Norman Drew ?"        expressed regret, tjiat. lie had not repot,
" Well, by the blessing of Heaven,' answer- more confidence in a near relative than i
edStephen, refusing Richard's proffered hand. strangers."
"You have given pie a shock," added the  "lie was preparing for the other wor-ld,"
half-brother. " Your strong resemblance observed the suppositious Drew, sarcastical.
to -Stephen quite overpowered me. I can ly. :" Please go on."
scarcely believe that heis not'standing be-  "Taken by surprise, I could 9nly stainmet
-fore me." at first some faint protestations of his pas
"And if he were, why should you fear 1"' brotherly goodness. 'The world has sland-'
replied Stephen, quickly. "Dead men break ered you,' quoth lie, 'and  have helped the
no bones and tell no tae."              woirId. The tongue of detr ptioq has been
"True,"- said, Richard."; " but reason is quickened by paid' detractors.'"
sometimes taken by surprise, sensation being  "Said he that ?" inquired Stephen, quickly,
quicker thaa it.  I was ever superstitious.; in a tone that Richard did 'mot like. "Was
Poor Stephen!i He left us-suddenly."    John in the room?"
"Yes," said the counterfeit Norman Drew,  "He sent John away, thathe' might speak
"he did indeed, It is quite sad. But I have freely.; Stephen was affected to tears.  I
not been in the city long, and have learned never shall forget how he grasped my hand
little of the affair in detail. What were the at parting,,and how loth he was to relinquish
particulars of his decease ?"           it, and let me go. I assured him,that by-
Stephen looked-calmly at Richard, and kept gones were by-oones, and that I was not one
his voice regulated as much as possible, to to carry unkindness to my'pillow."
the tones of Norman Drew. His, features   "You forgave him !" anterposed Steppen ,
were paler than usual, and there was an ac- with a slight curl of the'lip.'
cusing light in his eyes, from which 1ichard  "Freely!" responded. Richard, sentiment.
wished to turn away.                    ally
j' The tale. is brief"; and a few words will "And thus ou lift him'?"
suffice to tell it. He was found dead in his  " Little thinKing it was the last time that I
bed, and there was a brasier of charcoal in should see him alive."  "
his room."                                Richard pulled anold silver watch from
Richard looked grave, and looked down.  his fob,aand consulted its faed dialt He did
'"Who placed the charcoal in the room ?" not feel comfortable, and wished to escape
asked Stephen, seriously.               the pertinacity of Norman Drew, the sight of
" The air was chilly, and the room was whom put him in. pain. His likeness to Ste..
damp," answered Richard. "The grate being pien :was terrible to his guilty conscieice.
crippled, a brasier of charcoal was ordered." He could not divest himself Qf the thought
"At his suggestion ?" continued Stephen.  that Stephen had an avenger.in this man.
Richard glanced at thq questioner, and saw His tone was sarcastic, his mannerr onjinous.,
his eyes glitter, like spheres of molten glass. His very person was a menace, his existence
" It was his own thought," replied Rich? a" perpetual danger.' Wicked' sugge 91tiis
ard.  I rang the bell for John Jerome, and glided; into his brain. Hie, bad consienae
Stephen gave the order himself. The char- was his monitor.
coal came, and was placed on the hearth al-  "The breath of man' is in his nostrils,
most within the draft of the flue. His chair said Stephen. "You were greatly shocked,
was wheeled to the brasier, and, sitting over no doubt, by what followed; buthis last will
it, he warmed his hands."               and testament, I dare say, will be your conso-
"Stayed you long?" queried Stephen.   lation."a                     y
"Not long; for he was morose. The cares  " Money is naught," answered Richard. " I
of the.day had vexed him. His businesshad have lived without it-thus far."
manifestly gone awry. He had lost .by dire  "True, you have lived by your wits I" re.
and .by water.' His man of business, too, had touted. Stephen.'"
failed to account for funds which he had-re-  "Then live you by yours !" said Richard,.
ceived. He spoke-of enormous deficits, and of sharply, moving on.
the dishonesty of men. He was full of butter.  " suppose you will be rich," added Ste-
ness.. I said nothing. 'I stood dumb before phen, "Ay, and happy,. toBut do not.
"                                    abuse your power.   o ot wrongUrsula ;

1.

1
r
i
!
:{
t
f
1
,
"
,
.,  i
'   f
i
,
i
1
4
° i


1'

SIBYLLEA JOY.
snideiesr in: mih  that Stephen Parkhurst  "A guilty conscience is followed by shad-
10red Sibyhla as his own child. The deceas- ows."
tdboide told me that you were a schemerand  Richard Parkhurst knitted his brows, and'
plotted  and Ipartly believe it. Rely upon lookedmoodilyat the putative Norman Drew.
i' Rtchard2Parkhumrst, that there is an endlto lie was struggling with a new apprehension,
S'lidngest tether, and that it is sometimes and devising means of extrication.
d' with a jetk, and with sudden horror.  " Have you comfortable quarters  Where
eak thus lainly, to put some, check upon are you housed ?" he' kd; with an' air'of
bur atidns.                             forbearance.
"This," rejoined Richard, turning and con-  These queries were followed by a  'shot
f  ntigSephn,"is'unbecomindgand njur- silence. A  quiet, smile' curled Stepihen's
sonu.-  Is really an insulting menace."  lips.
" Go on," said the other, without faltering. '" Care not for my lodgings, Richard Park
GDb tot mind humble Norman- Drew, the hurst; but look well to your own. Let there
0  yet-faitif1il friend-of Stephen Parkhurst. be no confidences between us. Should you
I i'amere hanger-ohlin' the world. I live discover riy mean attic, avoid itby allmeans.
fom hand to month.. My voice is: a voice Possibly, the attic may set' itself up against
,itiout influence. I have no money with the brown-stone house."
which to make weight in society.  Money  Richard shi-eed. A  dadl- chill thrilled
preponderates' in the scale, and povertykicks, his nerves. He movedhis  arms and his
the eam-,Pourt, though heavy for feeble limbs to shake off his strange' emotions. He
eboulders is light for influence ; too light for felt like one standing upon a secret trap, ha-
err . i?'ou can install yourself at Stephen ble at any moment to aandprecipitate him
rkhurst's, order the household, and, per- to unknown depths. He hated and feared
chance; dome in' for the lion's share of his Norman Drew.
4 *ealth, ghile I,more esteemed by the deceas-- "Yon talk wildly," he - answered, by and
ed, and' with a better claim by equity,'shall by. "You, like the Parkhursts, perhaps, in-
be left to wahIk 'my weary wal out of life, herited madness for a legacy."'
poor, neglected, and alone." '             "The Parkhursts did-not constitutionally
"''Nware of envy," replied Richard, ious- inherit insanity," answered Stephen. f
ly " Envy is a viper. Take it'not into your insanity ;appeared at, any time in the family,
bsOotc lest Itsting you. My brdther-Stephenit was purely incidental, and had its origin n
may have had some regard for you in former known causes."  s  R
y rs,; but theedge' of his friendship had  "It maybe so," said Richard,  ,,et Ursu-
rio,4and he spoke of yott on the last la's symptoms contradict, the statemde."
evening of his life quite indifferentl)."   Ursula's symptoms ,"murmured Stephen,
aI cannot believe that he spoke ill of me," quite astounded.
mattered Stephen, -flushing. "I saw him' a  "Too true ." sighed Richard, sympatheti-
t'W~ days before his death, and ours was not cally. "The dear' girls' intellect begins to
a- bold meeting.' Indeed, he invited mento totter. The blow was too heavy for her deli-
'viithim, and held out expectations."   cate strength. Good-night, -Sir."'
"The expectations of the wicked shall per.  Stephen did not he a rR  hard's good-night.
IWh'!" 'sneered' Richard.,               He had heard only the words that concerned
Ad Read in that text your own fate !" retort- Ursula ; they resounded startlingly in his
ed' spurious Norman Drew. "Your expec- brain, and shook his iron nerves.
titions are equaled only by your yilainy."  "Has any one noticed this but yourself !"
" This is exceedingly slanderous," protest- he asked, presently.
e Ilticha "d. "Your age is your protection. , He received no answer, and, looking up,
Jgy mind is too much agitated by'grief to be perceived that he was alone. Somewhat sur-
g~atlt annoyedbyyour singular accusations. rised, he moved on, muttering :
ou are in want, for Stephean'ssake, I Will  "This cannot be true. Some' new evil is
rel eve your present necessities, provided you in perspective. I must see Magnus 'rke.
'will swallow your disappointment, and re-
tun quietly to your home, wherever it may            CHAPTER-IX.
MIDNIGHT MEANDRRIItS.
"Charitable Richardi" returned Stephen,  Richard Parkhurst did not go far from the-
curbing his anger. "Perhaps I had better Battery. He concealed himself behind the
accept a beggar's sixpence, and creep back to nearest house, to watch the counterfeit Nor-
my obscurity, leaving you to pursue, unmo- man Drew. Nothing,troned the apparent
listed your ambitious projects."        death of Stephen, had troubled himse much
I forgive muchin you on account of your as- this chance meeting. This Norman Drew,
resemblance to Sitephen, which,, to-night, is though like -himself, was .yet so like the, de-
tr'uly- startling."                     ceased in eves y particular, that it was really

.8JYJ1.4 JOY.
wppderful to look at him. Had it been no potential bit of metal-but rememberng tcp
ztioi e than , ortdeiful, howe ver, RTichard' situation, let, it s811"from' his 1finge ' .at j
would-have been compariatively easy; 'but into pis.ppket.  crossed the veua  1
this foster-brother of Stephen'terrified him. stood  beside the little iron gate iUt the sid.-
Fe had the effect mpox} hin ofa spectre entrance. His own apartment were d~4c
called from   the mysterious  nbt ser world fto andsllent.'
punish him for.iis crime ; to rebuke hiin for  " The air is chilly and the room As dMPA"
hissing; to freeze him into ice with his ac- muttered Stephen, rellactivel, 14' thous
using eyes; to dog him up and down the running upon the beaier of c  cd al andtlip
streets ; to watch his actions, to meet him  cunning of Richard.  "I  mglad, I camo
everywhere, to hold over him "the flaming 'here," he mused.  I wae growing  weak
swoid of justice.                        my puikpose ; ',but the eight .of t'  o
Truly, the voice of Norman Drew came out makes me strong again. It is painful to giv
of the grave, it was so like Stephen'. His pain to the I love;but'thcre is something
fears were- so wrought 'uponi that dinps of 3° rand and inspiring ini becoming  the unseen
erspiration stood upon his brow.   New .rovitlence of both the good and the bad.
York was too small for this goblin Stephen Here I am, the 'rotectingrovidence of two
and himself to live in. His' terror. and his young girls, andthe avers'  Pfovi6 nce
hatred grew in' equal proportions. 'He felt a creeping slimy villain, who lies in waitkb
murder in his heart, 'His evil nature pushed innocence and watches for the downfall'ot
'hiim on. Itis first great offence had already justice.  I shall find consolation in 'th
given aim the overmastering momentum of thought, that through me, 'Harven will work
crime, and lie could not - stop. It seemed to out its ends. This shall not last long; I wig
his perverted mind that a dire necessity was not be wantonly cruel. When I have looked
laid upon him, apd that the consummation Of on a while and marked the cabals of Richar
his villainies was, inevitable, and -inexorably I will restore to Uisula aid Sibylla that
demanded by surroulisdlg circumstances. , which they think they have lost.  Good
He followed Stephen Parkhurst. Hekept night, children. Little do iou suspect who
him 'steadily in view.  He stopped when watches over you."
Stephen stopped, and turned when Stephen  With these inaudible reflections, Stephen
turned. It was not aneasy task to keep in turned from  the brown-stone hpuse, and
sight of him,; for he had  no fixed place of Walked away biky  o  ihn    ob    e
estination, He walked because motion was by acquaintances or to ae seen in that neigh,
a relief to him, and because rest'was hnmpos- borhood. AgaikRiqhard followed, with morse
sible. He traversed one street and he tray- cii'cumspection, an d'with the observance of
ersed 'nothie)," with equal indifference. 'oine- greater and safer:distance. had he been pur-
times h&amp; doubled' on his track, and crossed Suing an object for a god purpose, ie would
the same sti-eetseveral times. It was evident have tired and abandoned it before the mid-
to Richard that Norman Drew was thinking night-hour; but Richard ad a spur sharpe
seriously, and -Was utterly absorbed in him- than any incentive to. goodness, than, any he
self.                                    had yet experienced. Trudged , n Richard,;
Richard grew weary apid'impatient ; but in walked, on Stephen. Up to Broadway, and
mischief lie was persevering, and he knew  down that great thoroughfare; then to th
that thle obj eet of his"' spionage' would' not right ; to the left ; diag onally through a nar-
walk aU night ' but seek his attic when lie row street ; deflecting this way and that ;
had tired both mind and body.            where the houses were huddled, and grim
Several times, Richard was very near Nor- with spoke and dirt ; where offensive odors
man. Drew ; and once, in one of the latter's arose from tinder-ground kitchens and demp
eccentric' turns; they met and passed 'each cellars; 'where there were, stalls and ei ''
other. 'Thanks to the darkness of the night for men and women to' herd in; and sil
and Stephen's abstraction, -Richard was not on, till he had passed the owest )airs 'oa
r'eed nized.  They went  -from  the' lowest poverty, and reached an obspiycurity less re.
sluips to the most fashionable quarters of the pulsive.  Into an alley, into a courit, and
city, and at midnight passed the brown-stone ipto shadow yet deeper.  Stephen paused
house. Stephen paused there, and, from the and looked back. Richard' dodged behind a
opposite side of the avenue, 'gased at 'thesi- tumble-down corner, 1nd avoidedndiscovery
lent edifice. rjle'ewas light in the hall, and by' a miracle of quickness."' ' When Jie s ep}.
also inseme of the chambers. One of the toured from his brief concealment, his Noipan
upper -windows lie Watched with' peculiar Drew had disappeanrd'in one or the therer of
interest, for the light that, glowed through its the gray, low-roofed dwellings. Riehard
panes came 'from Ursula  apartments. In- groped along the middle of the court--the
stinctively, le felt in his ocket for the key sunen walks being too narrow and broken
to the private entrance.' he grasped  it-2thiat for safety at that -late hour. Eagerly indeed

f7   t  t
a
Ir
ice           i
i    r            1

'a
i
a
;


I'

$IBY  LL JOY.
id heinspect l e  ack'walls that environed will hang you," asserted Marmaduke, with a
lima; the lnaite' bks gave him no knowl- confidence that was peculiarly disagreeable
edge of Normin Drew, although his inquisi- to Richard, who had no good reason to like
thre eyes questioned them over and over a prophecy of that nature.
again. Disappointed, he indulged in some  "They will, will they ?" growled Richard.
whispered expletives. He thought at first "Well, we'll see."
that he had received just his trouble for his  "Norman Drew is manifestly your ene-
pins ;, b'  eflection convinced him that his my," continued Duke Marmaduke. "Now
~amp  had not' been fruitless, even if he repeat to me every word that he said. Omit
should make nbf urther discoveries; for a nothing, forget.nothing, slur'overnothing.
little patient:watching of the court would, in Unless," he added, with grim humor; "you
il  robability, complete his wishes. He want eventually to dance on nothing."
stowd still several minutes, and presently, to  With a strange thrilling at his finger's
his great satisfaction, saw the faint glimmer- ends, Richard went over his story again, sup-
Ing of a lamp'in one of the upper stories of plying many things that he previously neg-
the house directly before' him. This, he be- elected to mention.
livedd, supplied ,tlhe 'last item wanting to  "I never knew but one case like this," pro-
erown 'his nights work. With a red pencil tested Marmaduke, and that case ended at
which he had been using that day, he made a Tyburn, at the end of a halter."
small 'cross on the door, so that there might  "Cold-blooded villainI" muttered Richard.
be no bidnndering should'he have occasion " May your white neck break a halter some
to visit Norman Drew. Feeling that his per- fine morning. I would go a hundred miles
tinacity bad been well-rewarded, he left the to your hanging, and walk every step of the
court, and hurried to his' own lodgings, to way."
confer with.Duke Marmaduke.              "If I can get a ticket to the jailyard I will
do the sane for you with less trouble," re-
,CHAPTBR X.torted Duke, in excellent temper. " Request
HOBSNSA TE DEthe hangman to give you a good fall, Dick ;
Aw EYE TO BUSINEss AND THE DEVIL's EYE. for there is much in being Well hanged and
Richard Parkhurst found Duke Marina- having it soon over."
duke in unusually low spirits. He noticed  Richard shivered and gasped.
that the diamond ring no longer sparkled on  " There are times, Duke, when you're
his finger-a sure sign that his finances were spitefully personal and infernal provoking.
low. l'he inevitable carbuncle glowed in its Don't 'talk of such matters. If you must
accustomed place. He smoked his cigar ventilate your spleen, go out into the street;
thoughtfully.Richard told his adventures, but don't tackle me in my own house."'
which instantly interested Duke, the arch-  "He has become a householder 1" sneered
plotter, who condescended to give the narra- Marmaduke. " I rejoice at it, because I want
tok his undivided attention.           shelter, and all kinds of comfort. I must
" The resemblance is striking, you say," keep my head above the tide, and at the pres-
observed Duke.                         ent time it is hard work. Really, Dick, you
" To me it is'something more than marvel- must speedily install me at' the brown-stone
ous," Richard replied.                 house. You are such a faltering fool that
"It was like the ghost of Stephen," added you need me constantly at your elbow."
Duke, with a significant lifting of the eye-  The large 'carbuncle shone in Richard's
brows.                                 face, and looked more like blood than ever
"Lam terribly disturbed," answered fich- before.
ard. "'I feel as if I should sleep no more.  "Should I come to the end you prophesy,
TALWe'  acbeth, I have 'murdered sleep'. you would have to sit there alone," returned
Hitherto, iii my uneasy slumbers. I have Richard, doggedly.
dreamed of charcoal; if I sleep again I shall  " Upon my word, that is what I'm afraid
dream of Norman Drew."                of," said Duke, with emphasis. ." There are .
4' Melt often attempt things beyond their two persona who must be pushed aside. You
strength" said Marmaduke. Figuratively can sqe that yourself without drawing upon
speakmn, you are weak in the spine and your imagination."
knock-kneed, which is a pity. He threaten-  Richard nodded sullenly.
ed, did he ?"                           '"Do you agree with me that those two
He looked at Richard, penetratingly.  persons endanger your plans, and even
"As I have told you,' the latter answered. your-"
a Whether he knows anything dangerous to  Duke touched his white throat with his
me is doubtful'; but it is certain that he sus- chubby forefinger.
pects much."                             " Certainly," was the response, in a surly
"Magnus Drake and this Norman Drew tone.

_
fi,
y

IBYLL    Y-..                             81
And that something is to be done ?" added lars that were damp and ghastly dharnel-
Duke.                           "      hIu es? You know you have .Yon' have
Richard said:                         walked too near 'the'vortex of thaniisery not
Yes."                               to be: acquaintedwith it.  o not forget the
"Then what is it, and ihpw is It to be ac- have-beens ahd.the bygones. 'Yot'hage'eatdn
corn lislied Y"                         your three pennies''worth'of bone'soup under
"  don't know," said Richard, keeping the sidewalks and in subterranen hells. Ne-
his eyes from meeting the searching glances cessity makes strange bedfellows."
of Duke.                                 " I mnay have'.eatedi atery soups at the
"You do,",contradicted Duke.' "It has boozing-kens, but I Beer kept company with
been in your 'iind .ever si'e you inet Nor- the thieves and cut-throats of that miiseirablo
man Drewa, It has followed 'you through the place," asserted Richard.
streets; it has repeatedits own name a hun-  "Your pride runs away with your verae.
dr , times."                           ity," said Mannaduke. " To donfess that you
ichard did not deny the charge. ,le said: have eaten offal soup is, to concede the whole.
'ALet the foster-brother be' attended'to first. dmit but the bolting of said offal soup, and
I care .less for Magnus Drake than for Nor-  bu own'the companionship of beggarsvaa-
man Drew. But I cannot things of, that of bonds; thieves, and murderess. ' Those'w ho
which you are thinking. We must stop this go down to Dead Man'$ Alley are not utterly
side of that. Murder is one thing a 4 re- blind.  However, there are some things
moval is another. An offensive person may known only to desperate characters and great
be put out of the way, and yetnot, be killed." criminals?'
"Don't talk of murder, Dick," answered  " How came you to know them Y" demand-
Duke, fastidiously.  "I have .nerves, and ed Richard, sharply.
very sensitive nerves, too. You're a dreadful  Duke Marmad Uke coughed, changed his
bear. A' mdn can disappear of a sudden, position, and put his cigar into the other cor-
and never show his face again., This ghost ner of his iiouth.
of Stephen Parkhurst is as liable to disappear  " Partly by accident, and partly by the
as another. Well, should he disappear, what agency of a fellow who was much about town.
would become of im ? Nobody knows what On the whole, my experience in that line at
would become of him, but everybody, Inay  he outset was dangerous; but I. escaped
try conjectures, end indulge in speculations, alive ; otherwise, I should not be here. 5ev-
He may fall into the water; he may take eral of the dark coves had a fling at ime, and
bedbug poison for physic ; he may cut his for awhile it was a dead set; but I used my
throat whilshaving ;-he may die of intem- daddies nimbly, and got away at last. May
perance ; he may slip out of the world by' a the damber cove of that kennel dance when
stroke of apoplexy or A disease of the heart; he dies. As it was, my'dial-plate was a good
or lie may tumble down-stairs and break -is deal scored, and I kept my bed the next day
neck, and be trundled' o, and ;put into the on account of bruises apd contusions. They
ground without obpe vation or obituary.' The will sing the.dismal ditty lndue time."
same thing need no of necessity, happen to  " What's the dismal ditty ?" Ridhard asked.
every person. Some good people are sent to  "'It is the'psalm or song sung by criminals
insane asylums, and that is the last of them. just before they are executed."
There are underground kehs, too, where a  "Disinal enough," muttered Richard.
troublesome person may be detained for years  " Rather melancholy, Dick. I'think you
without the knowledge, of those who- might had better put your dismal ditty in rehearsal,
be interested in' his.fate. So you 'perceive soon. For the sake of your last appearance
that we are not obliged to talk of murder. upon any stage, 'I hope you .have a good
Always be 'choice in your language,' Rich- voice. Let me advise yoti to open your
ard-.                                   mouth wide, Richard, to let out the dismal
" What are undergroundd kens ?" asked notes."
Richard.                                 " Never mind that, but tell me what 'to do
" Are you then so innocent 4" replied Duke, with Norman brew. Sufficient to the day is
contemptuously. "Have you not walked the evil thereof."
abroad at night? . Hayc not your tidventur- - ""ou tracked him to his crib. That was
ous feet gone down into the-slums of the Five well thought of, and tolerably well executed.
Points? Have you not been met in the face Do you know his habits? is he fond of tip-
by the overpowering stench of crib and ken- pling?"
nel ? Raye you not held your nose, and   "His notions are somewhat Puritanical, I
plunged into the midst of the reek and sweat believe. As for drinking, I suppose he takes
of human degradation ? ' Have "Ryou not a social glass, like other folks."
climbed into squali4 attics, that were like the ' -Is lie benevolent,?"
chambers of pestilence, and descended to cel-  "i ve' hard hin that's gone' say, that Nor-

I
11
{        t
1        !
i
.1
f
=          1       ,
t
,i
t
n
fr                 '
1    f
h           1
i
3
F       '
f l


s
h_
t
r i
, ,
Y
I
,
.y ,
1

;  ink: pf  a"Thi s,".Saidr .ith s  ,ithtsia
c cJar4t " meets my views. If you desh' security,
f    comfort at the brown-stone. puse,apgt y
hand to this business, and do'ot look pa
0   "    vig    ag.  n one  tlgeree it ypu
those privatevrooms jist oter fho w
w opp  a tsItwillt bp very co y there and
one ury     i       tegin'a'cigars,  ing the i
Spf a    wint-evenings. I shall wait akey, Riche
e iiTfor ; am    octurpal ;in y habits and
d~sors  '    ade i q' nist o ithem'dins
e  iyb        t     s    n    o   .   LJobar
i r ba  e.a  *.ua of.ir      ,e f  Parkht

Ap4Ui QI0Iorup;, waly ,:ivei uuupr  LUx A;
rhose gimszarp like crap, erries, and  hose
myweye are likie ainmers   he imodst of
tiperspn is such,'h  t lie shuns the li ofr
ipy4jp' hides hiis poclmpried fg' A  is
subterranean retreat. He seldom p   e is
99ps.;povs tbe soil.  Glumis, i .atr and
sticks to 'his sewer. IT receives boardprs,
now and then,, and it, would seem thi t they
are so cntept with thqirfare,: tIat they nyr
leave him. In some respects,    's ntrgsey
is better; than 4. madhouse. T he}e is con-,
'sideabl'dampness d6n iii  glirypts.. The
f6o6s are sometimes wet, aind'it psto be fear-
ectahit t ie sewer hiaks i t hi obscuree
v ults. ..  gucha case,, the occupants might
ake, od'; grow  hollow-eyed; and; yelilot,
and, fliylfall; iito, a wasting pnlanciply,
beyond the. reag ~f physic.;  hnm m ur ed
them wit ou)tentation unr the pave,
mnent1 over ,which;thousan4s of feet shuflle
ilf,.,'Ithb    begn hin$d by cittyse ed
cults, that ti  ' sewer  a sepul e4 ,nby
-lusihmg-gills, tat liis leparted ,chicks are
qietlyshot 'ino that ommum-gatheruim.
But whetherGlumi's coy establ1isbenp com-
muni ates With thatrecepacle, I  ownot."
"You moth the thieves' putter. ]1ea" vet-
ran rogue," remerked Rkhard be'gpning to
qnail before the',red eye of the carbuncle.
Miarmadules genius seemed d uiivers1 "it
soared aboye tle eart  aid dived benethit
T;is tfair siinned,"rosy-cheehed gentleman,
with;all' his segamis iness au abliorr nce of
dirt, had'visited places well calculated to ry
the courage ,of the oldest,  developed
new resQurces every day.' die was ertile in
expedients, fruitful in devices, and shrew4 in
every,'yillainy. *Riopgird clutched eagerIy at
theche;e thus inigenionsly presented.
le gisid to htop shortly thegreat gonclud-
encime of wickedness; for he hac  had
euggh; ob'tyga~in the esse ,of tep len; If
torian iare, could be disposed o for, the
present, he' dd  pt much care whatmight
afterward become of him.' 'Ie desired to,
gpin tine to finish the business in hand.

h        1
F         t
t
k                       t
f
r ;
1         u          L
r
t
7)
F
i
. S

~ A4~~'U I r "'"  l "V 'f'Y LL J
serve dDuke, blandly, tWe se imstruaots
after the worl Iadone,.'  put away te .in
"J Wis   you would pat away that,instru-
ment. He    aslgready gxown insolent, and
takes 9A airs.a s if he'were master of 'tie situ.
athon. "Now, you'  gin to talk'to'ithe point
Yes ; the firm of Parkhurst ' Marmacluke
aqeds no partiers.' Brush away this Ily,. dis-
pose of Norman b)rew, a I you sall have 1l
"  will hold you to'thatpromise. We will
lose 'no'time;, but begin woti immediately.
Aiong your half-rothers effects, 'ou pro
ba4ly found ssome, hankaotes ;but Iseldon
borro w,.Richard.  Put up your purse. You
cay  i tthe broker for nie, however, if you
feel re';to do so, aid give ige something
on this;pin."
Hq tonched the carbuncle with his d nger.
1ur rurst drew back as if afraid, threw
ehaknit e uppoi the tabl9, saying, hur-
eepyoutcarbunge)  i   do not like it;
the    p'        vil is in it."
Very true," answered Duke, coolly.
"You, 1o not know the history of itI suspect
'Itwas'given ie in France, by an Italianswho
died the next mouin g at ten o'clock."
thw Ilowdid he die ?" asked Richard.
'le died df h ving hishead chopped off,"
said Iu e. "   e was, exeeuteq. :That mon
had dabbled in magic; and very strange
thi$s.wye repog ed of him.  His face was
pale to glhslliness ; his beard and halt were
onteusivelyplack, while his eyes glowed With
unaturafL brightness.., His white, regular
teeth lhone through his colorless lips, like
drifte sney',. 1e scored Inei,' and life, ad
death. ;iHen' mocked at joy and pain, and
sought not Iiunsan society. I sat with him on
the ,g, of his execution, and .I was af 'aid.
The cold gleams of hid eyes chilled me,'like
the tonch of steel-."
"How   came. you in prison ?" inquired
Richard, in an awed tone

Do
ms
Hs
'0


SIBYLTA JQY.
"No matter; I was there," answered Duke, lect instantW  seized
thoughtfully., "He asked me, with a strange Richard.  saw the
smile, 'if I would like to wear his mantle'. I reason that he saw It, b
shuddered ; nor could I help it. 'To-mor- be averted. He assure
row,' said he. 'I shall lay down thisbody, fallacy -of Ursula's re
and take another. You will noti know me had seen no evidence o
when next we meet.' It was an odd fancy; observed her condt
but I partly believed it. He gave me the this mpner, and with
carbuncle."           .                 d'avored to dispel t
"He said something about it, surely," oh- Stephen. His argue
served  ichard.                         was good, but someth
" He did. 'It is a marvelous toy,' saidhe. farareaching than either
It is the eye of Satan.' Then'le laughed. of Iarkhurst.  Intuit
Wear, it on your breast, and nobody will of the soul, goes behin
over-reach you,' he added. 'The Fend's eye causes.
is magnetic."'                            Magnus recommende
"A tale for children," Richard muttered, air
yet unable to withdraw his gaze from the  "I have had enoug
flaming stone.                          Stephen. "The small
"' It will tell you when we meet again,' struck befoi' I retired.
said the.Italian., 'It will change color.'  -Go ou to my house, M
Marmaduke shrugged his shoulders, and tie latest intelligence fr
f                     added : " But it has not changed color, yet. So Ursula closely. I w
that is why the devil is in the carbuncle. Sit equilibrium~ of her c
with it in a dark room, Richard, and look at intellect.  And, Magn
it steadily, and presently it will assume the more.  Lucretia Full
appearance of a fiery eye."             tie looking after. I n
Marmaduke arose, and yawning, th'ew keeper that didn't nee
himself upon tichard's bed.            cretia, I used to thi
Parkhurst remained sitting in his chair. She is perspicacious an
The lamp went out.  The fire burned down no knowing w at straw
to afew smoulderin  embers.. Turning his her. As an ally of Ri
eyes toward Mlrmaduke, he saw the carbon. reall dangerous."
cle shining in the darkness.  Fascinated,  "   shall have her
he stared at it, and thought of the tale Duke  "'Were is that John
had been telling. The Italian's gift winked,  "I dismissed him abc
and blinked, and flamed at hil; andefinally, he still haunts the serva
to his heated, fancy, grew the proposition  "Get rid of him. I
of an infernal orb. He troubles me. Som
-.- Ursula, if the rascal
CHAPTERXI                    Eject him by force, an
MR. DAVIDS.               not forgettilg a cbs
It must be borne in mind by the reader, leather. Leather, in
that, at.this stage of the story, Stephen Park- often a good stimulant
hurst represents Norman Drew. If we call prince of villains, Rid
that gentleman by the :name of the latter, A will will be found so
T                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~the distinction -must be underto.Te "I  a  enfui.I
real Norman Drew being dead and buried in the scoundrel yesterday
the name of Stephen Varkhurst, Stephen been discovered in a'pr
Parkhurst takes up the broken thread of his "He has doctored it'
life, and, to all save. Magnus Drake, is the the play go on. If he'
veritable Norman Drew.                   a legacy for himself, I
With this statement to make the plot clear, But hurry away, Magr
''H!                                                                                                      and to prevent the confusion of persons and rome may bethe sooner
ideas, we follow the course of events.    "I will call for you
Magnus Drake called on. Stephen at an Magaus, "and'shall ms
early hour in the morning. They conferred you a long times Sc m
together earnestly. Ursula and Sibylla were will injure your health.
talked  of with much seriousness.  The    "I shall be ready," s
malady referred to by Richard,,as threaten- wear away the time a
ing the mind of his daughter, filled him with early, and biing me ehe
alarm. Magnus heard the details of the pre- . Punctualto his appoint
vious night with surprise. ,His clear intel- returned. Stphen was
KT3
Iy

85
upon the motive of
danger, and for the
elieved. that it could
d Stephen of the ut
puted 'distemper.
f insanity, and he had
from first to last,." In
a friendly zeal, he en-
lhe apprehensions' of
hts were apt, his login
Ling, more subtle and
, disturbed the peace
on, which is a quality
d reason and nearer
d walking in the open
h of walking," said
est hour, of the night
I must write to-day
[agnus, and brin me
rom my pets."' "atch
would not disturb the
lear and well-poised
us,, there is something
'er may need' a lit-
never knew a ,hodse-
d lookingafter. Lu-
, was."full of snares.
canning. 'There is
nge fancies nay seize
chard,' she would be
share of attention."
Jerome ?"
)ut two days ago ; but
ants' hall."
de's a wicked fellow.
thing may happen to
be not driven away.
d not gently, either ;
creet gpplicatln , f
the form of boot is
it.  When will that
lard, show his hand?
on, I'll warrant."
received a note from
, informing me that it
ivate drawer."
finely, no doubt. ' Let
has forgotten to name
don't know the man.
ius, so that John Je-
disposed of."
this evening," said
ist upon walking with
uch solitary brooding
aid Stephen. "I will
s best 'I can. Come
erful tidings."
atment, Magnus Drake
awaiting his appear-


ance, imatiently. AftrM soie conversation
%oy left the house, and were leaving the
urt,wh their attention was attractsya
pn, wigseemed Jd be in   eat distress of
amid.Tispersop was tellsg his-troubles
to a woman, who was syptheticallhstep-
i    ihs words. Stephen and ma   stopa
nd; te-agippearance'of the     het
apextoexcite their interest. e eaplain-
ykdressed ; but his tljreadbare garmehi were
a$ sng plean. He was of middle .age; aid
lioweer iuhi he m eight have 'suffered:om
ei'orl4  ycissiudes, he had mtnaigd to,
retin a goodly prbpdrtion of flesh. 1'is figure
wpeshprt e n stout; his face round, fttll, and,
a. Some ,gray bai's Bated on is forehead.
hat was shabby, and had evidently ben
ejected to brushingn. It Was consid-
erably out of et  and looked rather small
for hug head. His  ded necktie was tied with
much precision; while other details of his
di-ess proved him a man of some taste. He
was very straight. 'He carried a heavy cane.
He ha4,the appearance df a respectable citi-
zen In the humbler walks of life.
He continued talking. His voice'was clear,
low, and complaining. His stony was simple,
Ee had lost a young daughter; not by death,
but by devices too common In large cities.
She had been last seen with a person of ques,
tioigable character, who had volunteered to
uide her to a certain eteet of which she was
in search. It was then about nine o' ek in
the evening. Itwas the lowest quart  fthe
city. She did not return. Her fate, as too
apparent. She had been lured into somb den
oe eA , and 4etained.
Stephen Parlshurst, whose sympathies were
easily awakened, inquired the-girl's age.
Barely turned sixteen," answered the
man, respectfully.
" Was Fannie as old as that, Mr. Davids ?"'
asked the woman.I
"Yes ; the ;poor child was sixtedh,'three
days ago. You remember the New Year's
gi fwhidh Ipurchased for her ? Her pleasure
pnore thaw repqid me for the sacrifice which I
made to procure it. But all that is past, and
she is taken from me in amost cruel manner.
O Mrs. Hall! What shall I do ?"
Mr. Pavids applied his handkerchief to his
eyes, and was pnuch affected.
" she'was a sweet girl, Mr. Davids," said
Mrs. Hall, quite melted. "But beauty Is a
snare. I allus said that beauty wasa snare
and a temptation. My Letty now is dreadful
plain, and it does seem to me, that there is a
providence in it to keep her out of harm's
way. I'm reallyglad that Letty is homely;
for you see nobody runs away with a homely
fae." .
Mrs. iall turned to Stephen1arkhurst, and
added:

'Fannie Davids, Sir, isaslovelyaereatre
as youwould wish to see. I nevrr li-d my
two eyes on such a face an' figger. You'd
ought topee her figger. Sir. Dear met I never
see the like, an' to think-to what we females
is exposed, is enough to try the patience' of
Job !"
" Have you put the police on her track?"
Stephen wished to know.
" I've spoken to a couple of detectives, and
they will commence the business to-night,'
said Mr. Dtvids. "But I'm afraid they won't-
matifest much zeal, Sir ; for I'ma poor man,
and not able to fee them very liberally."
" Fees should not be demanded by the serv-
ants of the people," replied Stephen, with
warmth. " The-city pays its officials ; and no
private citizen, however humble, need put his
hand in his pocket to bribe them for'the per-
formance of an obvious duty. Neverthe-
less, generosity is a good thing, and all who
are able to do so would do well to quicken
the zeal of the faithful officer by suitable
tokens of appreciation. In' a case like this,
one cannot afford'to be niggardly ; for money
is but dross, while fidelity is above all price,
and worthy of admiration."
Parkhurst looked significantly at Magnus
Drake, who, understanding his meaning, ob-
served:
"What my friend says is perfectly true.
It is as much our duty to be generous when
,we can, as it is of the officer to be always
faithful, whether in the service of the rich or
poor. I am'so much interested in this mat-
ter that I will willingly lend the influence of
my ,voice, and the ,stronger influence of my
purse, to rescue your daughter, and to secure
the ends of justice."
"I thank ycu, Sir," answered Mr. Davids,
gratefully. 'If you would join in the search,
gentlemen, I should be forever indebted to
you. There are sone deeds which nothing
but eternal gratitude can reward. To-night,
properly prepared for the adventure, armed
at all points, we're going to visit the vilest
slums of the city, [am sure that you will
shrink from such an undertaking, and that
the excitement of the-searchiwill be of a char-
acter too dangerous to be agreeable. Young
tuen, I know, seek such excitement;.because
it is attended with peril ; and a midnight-ex-
ploration would be tame and aimless without
the element of danger. But excuse me, gen-
tlemen; grief is selfish. A man in trouble
troubles others. You have passed the'age of
novelty, and act from principle rather than
from impulse. Good night. The detectives
are waiting for me by this time. Heaven
help my childl !'
Mr, Davids began to walk briskly away ;
but his"remarks about excitement and dan-
ger had influenced the minds of Stephen and

xfty U,, ljL" yft.

I

At

F-   + }   i
W  ' t
!!IEEE     t
f'
t
_
4
R     1
F
f
j 1
!   j      '
S

Magnus to such an extent that no argument the darkest drops of degraded life. Anthony
could have dissuaded them from going with street was one of the tunnels that poured in
the detectives.                         at all hour, early or late, and ofthier late,
" Indeed, you must permit us to accompany it5 quota of wretchedness, to which Cross,
you," said Stephen, hurrying after Davids. Orange, Mulberry, and Little Water 'streets,
"I have long had a strong desire to see life contributed their motley streams.
in some of its lowest phases ; and this seems In the centre of these converging streets
a favorable opportunity. But believe me, a was Paradise square, a dirty triangle, in-
feeling more honorable than curiosity governs closed by a wooden paling, which was grim
my present purpose."                    with' blackness, hacked and ndtehed with
" My friend speaks more from the heart knives, dilapidated with age and bad usage,
than from the head," said Magnus. "What and much the worse for the company it had
you have said respecting the danger but had kept. Palings, like people, are smutched
sharpens my desire and strengthens my de- by evil companionship. Old garments flut-
termination. Tell a person that there is risk tered like tattered battle-flags on that paling.
.to encounter in a certain direction, and the to flap out their filth in the sun.
probabilities are as ten to one that he will 1Before reaching this' pestilent area, the do-
go that way immediately. We are all clil- tectives paused, glanced at each other, and
dren about such matters. Things interdicted one of them said'-
and things perilous have irresistible charms,  " If the gentlemen has any walables
and oftener influence our conduct than we about 'em, they'd better not take 'em along."
are willing to allow. Mr. Davids, we will go  " Not by no neans whatsomever," ob-
with you."                              served the-other  ' The idees of gentlemen
Davids had paused, and evidently heard an' ladies hereabouts is some'at loose as re-
this decision with satisfaction. He expressed spectin' the possession o' property ; 'specially
his thanks in fitting terms, and, moved on 'bout tickers and sinall-changl."
again. r                                  " True," answered Stephen. "It is well
Looking back, presently, Stephen observed thought of. But what shall we do with our
that the woman Davids had called Mrs. Hall watches and money? We seem-now to have
was following him.                      entered the vortex."
" Jest in the nick o' time," added he who
CHAPTER XII.                had first spoken. "We've a private orifis
THE DETECTIVES             here. Show the gen'lemen in, Driggs, an'
After a short and silent walk, Mr. Davids ,I'll strike a glim."
stopped' at the corner of Pearl street, where,  With these remarks the detectives unlocked
after waiting a few minutes, he was joined and opened a door at the left, and disappeared
by two men. Those two men were the de- in the.darkness. Driggs, Davids, Stephen.
tectives of whom he had spoken.         and Magnus, groped in after him.
Neither Stephen nor Magnus could con-   " Hurry up ' paid Driggs.
scientiously compliment them in regard to  And presently, after 'somne experimental
their Personal appearance. Standing beneath rubbing of matches, a lamp was lighted, a
the pale light of' the streetlamp, with their lam with a very weak constitution and
coats buttoned to their chins, their old hats feeble powers of illumination.
pulled over their -eyes, and their dark and  Stephen made a cursory, examination of
jagged beards bristling about their chins, this private office, and was somewhat 'disap-
they formed a picture by no means agreeable pointed with its internal arrangements., It
'to Stephen. But this incipient feeling of re- was a very squalid affair. It contained two
pugnance he endeavored to conquer, believ- stools, a box, and 'a pine table. .Stephen
ing that such "disguise was necessary, and thought this was a very ordinary concern ;
that their rough looks were partly assumed. but concluded that its mheanness was not inci-
Certain it is, that no one would have divined dental, but from design, and to enable them
their trade ; but suspected them to be dig- to sustain the characters which they had
gers of'. ditches rather than exhumers of found it necessary to assume.
crime and mystery.                        "Davids, interdooce us to yer fren's,"
The detectives took the lead. They passed quoth Uriggs.
.on and turned into Anthony street. It looks Davids immediately turned to Stephen and
down upon the Old Brewery. The fame of Magnus,~observing :
the Old Brewery is world-wide. It was the  "These gentlemen are strangers to me.
grand receptacle of the outcasts, and the de- We met scarcely a half an hour ago."
bris of human .society. It had opened its Ma nus hastened to announce Stephen's
cellular maw to receive thieves, vagabonds and his own name. Drake and Drew were
and Cain-marked ruffians. It had a magical at once made acquainted with Drigge and
capacity to absorb vice, intemperance, and Droolby, men whose acuteness had never


Y
, 'I~
ii't
4t
Y"-i
!(x

~IBYLA JOT.                    89

been oyerreached. Stephen handed his Satch  He paused,  wiped his oozing brow, and
and money"to Mr. Droolby, and Magnus sighed from the lowest button of his vast.
passed A0ever to 1[r. Driggs, who happened  " She were a dimber mort," observed
to. be nearest him. These articles were re- Droolby, with pathos. "He were a dark
ceived with great solemnity. They :were culley as took her away ; an' if the devil gits
careful y,deposited in- the box.  ''   his dues, we shall know where to find hum.
" Wil1 tey be safe there," Magnus in- Cheer up, al, an' you'll come out atop artery
quired, his face expressing some doubt.  a while. We'll craclp the ken to-night, or I'm
"Asa~ebug'in a rug," answered Droolby. a buzzard."
Them   'ere Walables might lay there a  "He means a dark ken," said Driggs, cx-
twelve-month, an' nobody'd be the better for planatorily. "A dark ken as is known to
'em. Who's a comin' to a private detective nobody, an' where nobody knows what an-
orifis for to touch the swag an' mizzle ? No- other body is a drivin' at."
body a'n't a goin' to ; because as how this This was so lucid and well-timed, that
'ere little spot is sacred to the eye o' the Droolby nodded several times.
law. An indiwidooal to break the law,     " Grief," he added; "is inconvenient in a
must first break a lock, an' to break a lock family. What a eye she had ! She were
is bu'glary."                           none o' your ravin' dells, but a modest an'
"Nobody can't git within from here," as- well-behaved un, as ever walked a pavement
serted Drisgs. "An'," he added, with a or wore a bonnet. Fannie Davids were a
olearness of logic that was irresistible, "if lass as. were bangup. She would made a
nobod can't gt nothin''from here, nothin' pictey, that gel would."
won't e'got."                             Stephen asked Davids, in a whisper,
-Magnus assented to this proposition ; but whether Droolby and Driggs always ex-
Stephen could not quite 'see the safety of his pressed themselves in this extraordinary
property in a box secured by a chea and manner. Davids replied, in a confidential
unreliable lock. He did not expres  his tone, that the flash was. a sheer assumption,
doubts, and no more was said about the matter. persistently practiced, so that the habit might
Droolby extinguished the light, and the become natural and easy;' as their calling
parties stumbled into the street again. 'Da- frequently took them among a class of peo-
vids frequently sighed, and dried his wet pie where this style of conversation was al-
eyes with a handkerchief. Now and then he ways heard.
murmured:                                 "It is almost impossible to- believe it,"
" Poor Fannie I Dear girl I Unfortunate said Stephen.
child !"                                "Habit is everything, answered Davids.
~'These exclamations were quite touching, "Wonderful fellows are Droolby and Driggs.
and helped to dispel the rising suspicions of Many are the rogueries and crimes that they
Stephen.                                have ferreted out.  Justice, Sir, will keep
They walked as far as the Old Brewery, above the tide, while we have such men in
It was now ten o'clock, and the detectives the detective service."
considered it too early to commence their  " If they are gentlemen," said Parkhurst,
operations. So they turned back, and went " they are gentlemen much disguised. They
into the old grocery on the' corner'; a won- use the rogues' dialect with singular ease."
derful grocery ; an abominable grocery,   "It is surprising !" exclaimed Mr. Davids.
where execrable liquids were sold to tatter- "Their familiarity with vice is equally re-
demalians. Stephen and Magnus were dis- markable.'
gusted at the threshold, but managed to find  Stephen shook his head.  There was a
themselves in a miserable place, where res- lurking doubt in his mind that made him un-
piration ceased to give pleasure, on account easy ; that disturbed him despite philosophy ;
of the impurity of the air and the unwashed that was more subtle than reason, and greater
state of the visitors. Droolby and Driggs than the arguments of Davids. His anxiety
settled among the miscellaneous dirt with was not lessened when, soon after, he detect-
admirable  adaptability to circumstances. ed the latter making a covert gesture to the
Magnus fidgeted, while Stephen, with great detectives. That gesture manifestly meant
heroism, tried to look serene and happy. silence and circumspection. By-and-by, Da-
Davids was less patient than either. He was vids said he could endure delay no longer,
fastidious. He went often to the door, and and Stephen was heartily glad to leave the
as often returned, flushed and hot.    place, and breathe the better air of the street.
" It has been my motto to keep above the--
tide," quoth Davids.  "I have kept above           CHAPTER XIII.
the tide.  I have kept Mrs. Davids above          AMONG THE SLUMS.
the tide.  I have kept the young Davids  The detectives plunged at once into a dirty
above the tide hitherto."        .      alley. They were in the Old Brewery. The

passage was very narrow and very dark and
much worn under foot. Droolby began to
open crazy doors, and Stephen Parkhurst be-
ran to see filth and poverty at their worst.
hey went into holes, which were called
cribs, where miserable human creatures were
huddled together like vermin. In some of
those sweltering graves the stench was in-
tolerable. Stephen andsMagnus often turned
back to gasp for the better air of the alleys.
They went up complaining stairs. The de-
tectives used their clubs; they thumped and
rattled at rickety doors, which threatened to
fall beneath their blows. If the swinish in-
mates delayed unreasonably, if they were too
drunk to lift latch, or push bolt or bar with
alacrity, they were soundly berated by Drool-
by and Driggs. Sometimes there was con-
siderable fumbling and shuffling before the
dingy doors turned to reveal the sodden mis-
ery within. Profanity and obscenity hailed
both ingress and egress, and followed them
with harsh pertinacity to the next kennel.
In many instances, blacks and whites were
found herded together ; and Driggs asserted,
gravely, that the blacks were as bad as the
whites. Parkhurst shrugged his shoulders,
and did not express a doubt of the veracity of
that knowing official. It did seem probable
to him that the negro might sink as low as
any-..
one bare crib beneath the ridgepole they
found ten or a dozen hateful hags, the sight
of whom made Stephen shiver. They were
tattered and torn, wrinkled and wry, gray
and grizzly, toothless and tart, trenchant and
testy, wicked and witch-like, malignant,
mouthing crones, with no place to-lay their
- evish heads and half-naked bodies. One
sunken-jawed harridan gibbered and gibed
at Stephen, and doubling her long, skeleton
fingers into ghastly fists, shook them in Ste-
phen's face, while her elfish locks drifted like
coiled snakes about her shriveled face and
skinny neck. Stephen recoiled in terror
from this horrible shape which followed him
up, menacing and gesticulating like nothing
human. He thought that hel had disem-
bogued, and lost a few   of its choicest
ogresses.
The crib contained but one single mov-
able, and that was a basket.
"That   conwenience,"  quoth  Droolby,
pointing with a very black detective finger,
"Ais which they goes a stealin' with."
After this enlightemng observation, Mr.
Droolby considerately rescued Stephen from
the hag.
Where do they sleep?" inquired Magnus,
whose notionsof life and lodgings seemed
greatly confused.
"In their skins," said Driggs, with a
humorous grimace.

" On the bare floor," amended Droolby.
Davids remarked that he should think the
poor wretch would freeze in winter weather.
"Freezel!" repeated Droolby with immense
contempt. "What is there to. freeze of 'em?
Can't freeze.parchment, can ye? Can't freeze
dry bones, can ye ? Nor dry sawdust, nor
unpowder ? Not bad, I reckin. - Not wery
Droolby's line of argument was considered
final and satisfactory, Magnus merely obeerv-
ing :
" They do look very crisp and bony."
"There isn't no marrer in 'em," quoth
Droolby.
The hags shrieked in concert, and brand-
ished their skeleton arms, as if they meditat-
ed a simultaneous attack.
"Look at 'em !" added Droolby. "Look
at the bingomorts ! You might split 'em into
kindling's with wery little sweatin'."
" The devil might kindle his fire with them
for I wouldn't," said Mr. Davids. "And
here," he added, taking Magnus by the sleeve
to detain him a little longer. "I'd point a
moral and adorn a tale. 'All this comes of
not keeping above the tide."
"Above the tide I" exclaimed Droolby, with
indignant incredulty. "It's a lie! Throw
them 'ere critters into the water, an' they'll
float like corks, every one of 'em !"
" I was speaking figuratively," said Davids.
I was referring to the tide of life which
floats us all, drifting one one way, and an-
other another. They didn't keep their heads
atop of it. It flowed over 'em; it sunk 'em;
it did the job for 'em. And that's where
they be at the present time. They're under,
and the tide is standing on 'em. There's jus.
the difference of being above or below, top-
most or undermost, hindmost or foremost.
" The tide is a standin' on 'em?" repeated
Droolby, with contempt. " There isn't no-
thin' standin' on 'em as I can see, 'ceptia'
their rags, an' them don't stan' much to the
pint. Sich nonsense isn't the valley o'
that !"t
Droolby snapped his thumb and finger,
and led th way downward toward the base-
ment. O the wyay they glanced into a ken-
nel, where ;there were three infants lying
upon three heaps of shavings.
" Sich is life," said Droolby. " Them is
from small beginnings. Tall aches from lit-
tle ocorns grow."
"Infants !" exclaimed Davids, sentiment-
ally.. "You're young ; keep above the tide."
"They will have to begin soon to do that,"
observed MagnusA
"They was born under water," asserted
Droolby, oracularly.
" The little coves will float one of these
days, perhaps," offered Driggs, as a kind of


far-rate prophecy. "Tve khowed the tide   "Wery lmperlite' muttered Drbolby.
;to l' people as was a lying' low on the corri  They found but one crib with a bed in It,
and the proprietress was as vicious a cata-
,,Bingaast I" (get you gone) returned maran as one would' wish -to see. Her irony
Droolby, -witir severity.  " Them  kiddies partook of the malignity of the nether world.
never float the wallet o' a brass button. C- reak, -creak : down, and further down.
They'll hug the bottom: forever. The ealt The air grevr thicker. The wall oozed, and
s  barnacles, whit:h is figurative, an' means the footing beneath w  like the slip of hell.
the wiciousness of sin, will keep 'em down  " Poor Fannie !" said Davids, with a great
amoig the awash and seaweed till their moral gulp.
natur is buried in the sand."             " That's' right, Old Giglamps !  Gulp It
Droolby flourished his billy, and rounded down I" exclaimed Droolby, giving Davids a
his philosophy by giving ragged girl a gen- smart blow upon the back.
ritsrap on the head, with the admonition' to.  "Giglamp", in thieves' slang, signifies a
'give her red rag a holiday"; meaning that pair of spectacles ; and Davids:had put on a
se shlbdd hold hertdngue.              very curious-looking pair.
"Some ot yey" he added, threateningly,  "Bing we to the lushin' gulls." (Go we
"an' I dunno which, an' it don't make no down among the drinking fellows.) "One
great matter o' odds, as yer all a low set o' extreme follers hard on the heels of another.
sealliwags, has gone an' spereted away a From lullaby kids we go slap to bloated
young gal, an' hid her up atween the ceilins, sluggers."
or atween the floors, or atween the pertitions,  ".'his is very wonderful I" murmured
Cr atween som'ers, nobody knows where, an' Stephen, looking dubiously at Magnus. " I
itis she I'm carter "                    doubt these men," he whispered.  " They
A chorus of cracked voices protested en- mouth the slang too glibly. Keep near me,
tire innocence of all then and there assem- and watch every movement."
bled.                                     When they had gone a little further, he
"Poor little drops of life,"-sighed Stephen, found opportunity to ask. Magnus if he had  0
sAill looking atthe unswaddled infants.  any defensive weapons about his person.              /
"Very troo," assented Droolby. "Drops   "Pistols !" answered Magnus.
}' life are good in their places, an' conwe-  "Walk you before me, and watch a chance
nient when the stomick is out o' order. to slip one into my hand," added Parkhurst. 9
They keeps those drops below stairs, an' I  "Things look a little dark," replied Mag-
can swaller 'em with less strainin"than them nus.
aforementioned."                          Just then, things looked light ; for Drool-
The detective made a motion with his club by turned and sprang a dark lantern in his
toward the sprawling infants, and descended face.        -
the creaking stars.  Stephen and Magnus            CHAPTER XIV.
fbllowed sadly.. Those naked little wretches     THE OLD BREwERY.l
ean the shavings made them ask strange ques- " What's the matter with gutter lane ?" do-
bione concerning the Christian Whiteness of manded Droolby, scowling.
New York. A weird crone shrieked after    "Gutter lane" is the throat.
them as they went, hurling down upon their  " Don't whindle till yer hurt," be added.
heads unwomanly epithets anrd shocking bad- " Keep above the tide," suggested Davids.
insge. Another said-and she was as shrew-  "Adwise 'em, Giglamps ; advise 'em. Ad-
inh as any: twice is good for green uns. Don't be fear,
"IDon't come here for yer bleak Moll: We ed, man. There's more under the earth nor
don't keep such dainty bits as you talk of. there is atop on't. We shall be a-knockin'
ro close your nib, and go off with your pat- our heads agin the wrong side o' the pave-
ter. If there is any law, we will have it. ments soon. There's two worlds in Gotham
WV  won't be knocked out of our peaceful -one below an' one atop.. Here we arq be-
beds by every boozin' cadger that chooses to low the level of.the streets. Murderers' Al-
ca1i himself a trap. We've had enough o' ley is above us."
them, I'll warn ye. Now I think on't, it "My heart fails me," protested Davids.
seems to me I've seen that mug o' yourn " This atmosphere chokes me."                                                             \
afore."                                   Stephen Parkhurst now found himself in a
"Stow your whidsI" cried Driggs, quite situation entirely new, and its novelty did
Martled.                                not render it less unpleasant. His friend
To "stow one's whids" is to be silent. and himself were standing upon some slip-
Droolby quickened his pace.             pery boards in a dark and unsavory passage.
You don't look to me like a fycop," add- Many unappetizing smells mingd there.
I;          d the virago, screaming with provoking per- The combined efiluvia was but the prelude
sistency from her filthy eyrie. -tthreek and fume in store fon them. By                                   -

4
-                                                                                                                          A                 ,
t,
V                                                                                                                                     '
r                /'
/                                                                        ,
i
r
F
I'
r                                                                                     ti
I
l
i
I  IIIIIII
I  II   i        I           I      I I
I  I  II  I        I            VI         I                                                                   ,
r                                                                     '
f
to
1
4
1  '1
r                          ' ,                                1     11)                                                                             t


- BSIBYLLA JOY.
cutting out his hands, Stephen could touch ter. A very dism
t amp walls on either side, and was often to light up its nasti
obliged to stoop, to prevent contact with the debased people; on
low ceiling. Droolby led the way with his and sodden aces; c
dark lantern, while Driggs walked in good faces; on vicious a
fellowship at his heels. The melancholy- on faces to haunt
Davids was next in order. Stephen and after.
Magnus were last. Magnus was nervously    This, in the rog
waiting a fitting moment to pass one of his "tash-panny". Th
weapons to 'Stephen ; but Driggs had a sin- corner where bad
gularly annoying inquisitiveness, and kept at cheap rates. One
looking over his shoulder.-an action which voted to terpsichore
Davids imitated. It really seemed to Park- proximity, a long
burst and. Drake that they were rather too bursting with impact
hf                                                                             closely observed. But there was no help for melody. The playe
-:- this espionage. Stephen thought of the pure al, clutched the i
air of the country, and the contrast was as and brandished the a
heaven to hell. He was staggered at the other, ready to start
possibiity of human existence i such a pest- from the dominant s
hole. The tales which he had read of the and whites mingled
crime and mystery of the Five Points began color. Particularly
to drift through his memory with marvelous lost.  he wretches
vividness. He began to believe what he had much apparent goo
previously rejected as beyond the limits of found in a fashionab
probability.                            creaked and squeak
They did not go far; but Droolby made the subterranean rev
several turns to the right and left, and ap. it, as if life was a
W    peared familiar with the way. They could the foretop, and enj
hear the tramp of feet overhead. Soon, the  "Innocent coves I
distracted whine of a violin reached their here is a scene' m
ears. The sound proceeded from one of the What a snuggery it
kens. Droolby stopped at a door, and, turn- bloke. Bolter "
ing his lantern upon Driggs, said:        Bolter was the dan
"Dub the jigger I" (Open the door.) , of the concern.
Driggs attempted to obey this order; but "Put up yer guy'
the door was fastened, and he knocked with wot it's all about."
his club.                                 "Not the valley
I                                                                                                        A rough voice demanded:               Droolby, with con
"tWot's the row ?  Hop the twig, my bob- 'round a little, that's
culls. There's no place for yer, here."   "Yer a sly trap 1
Not so fast, my hemp-puller," answered wink.
Droolby. " Don't say no, without reason. " There's a cly-fak
We're flyblokes, an' can draw the cole when unconwenience," ad
we're dry. Open, or we'll crack the ken." -smell wermin ?"
" Is it Droolby ?" was asked from within. " Don't be hard o
"Droolby and Driggs," said the former. Bolter. "We've sto
"So hurry up, or we'll wentilate yer divin'- fust an' last."
"Ain't down onus groun"Stop yer gob
" Ai't ownonu grund-wels, e yr?"tip us a couple o' inc
While asking this pertinent question, the among you fiash w
questioner opened the door. Droolby illum- velvet, an' sich lik
mated the fellow's face with his Intern, and it gen'leman, Bolter's a
was by no means an interesting or ingenuous Stephen and Ma
countenance. It was a very ugly knob. It tion, while Davids
was not the kind of visage to stand in a the anomalous liquor
banking-establishment, and to pass a check him. The agitated
through the pigeonhole to the teller., A check affirmed, had take
wouldn't draw with that fellow behind it. stimulants.
Droolby entered the ken, and the others  Stephen, Magnus,
followed. Stephen commenced an examina- ducd to Bolter, w
tion of the premises. The place differed ciously.
from any he had seen. It was larger than the Stephen was dissal
cribs above ; and its perfumery was no bet- of the search. His

rV
4
al lanp was struggling
mess.  t shone on many
bloated faces ; onred
n pale and -consumptive
nd crime-marked faces;
an honest man forever
ae's vocabulary, was a
ere was a hole in one
compounds were vended
part of the ken was de-
an exercise. In suitable
necked  fiddle -seemed
ience to let out its latent
r, an uncombed individu-
dle firmly in one hand,
ll-conquering bow in the
off at a nod or a gesture.
spirit of the ken. Blacks
without prejudice of
nice distinctions were
fell to their sport with as
1-fellowship as could be
le ballroom. The violin
d with all its voice, and
telers heeled it and toed
thing 'to be seized by
yed without stint.
'quoth Droolby. , " This
irth and hilariyous joy.
is t I say,yer a rum-
nber cove, or head man
" (lantern), " an' tell us
o' much," answered
descension. " Lookin'
all."
asserted Bolter, with a
er as has given us some
ded Droolby. " De ye
n us bobeulls," whined
ad a good 'eal o' buggin',
retorted Droolby, "an'
lies of bloo ruin, which,
armints, is called white
e abominations. Come,
goin' to moisten us."
nus refused this invita-
merely wet his lips with
r that was placed before
state of his mind, he
away his appetite, for
and Davids, were intro-
ho received them gra-
~isfied with the tardiness
distrust increased. He


- 8191A A. gOy

~BYMMLJ   :Oy.

,'

looked often at Magiue. Could he have beeh.
safelyhI the street, he would have been well
content. The squalid creatures about him ;
the tattered men 'aud half-naked women,;
the nauseous fumes of gin, beer, and onions,
combined with miscellaneous: stenchea; the
tramping, jumping, and clattering ; the rapid
emotions,. the varied contortions, and the
grotesque irregularities ; the shouting, the
wild laughter, the unseemly jestings, together
with tile utter abandonment of the restraints
of civilized life, had such an effect  upon the
educated nerves and refined taste of Stephen
Parkhurst, that he longed to fly from the,
scene as from a pestilence.
" Come, Bolter," said Droolby, by-and-by,
when his taste had lingered long enough on
the flavor of the detestable gin, "we must.
leave the dells an' the culleys, an' take a look
,t yer private affairs."
'Think o' my reputation," quoth Bolter.
" What If these bene coves should cackle ?"
"Deek the cadger I" (see the thief) ex-
claimed Droolby. " He pretends to doubt
Droolby an' Driggs.   ie's goin' to turn
autum-bawler (parson), an' save his good
name an' his soul at the same time. But it
won't do. You'll make as likely a sprout as
ever 'ow'd from a acorn."
" Yer mighty rough on a pal as has allus
come down Jiandsome with the cole," grum-
bled Bolter.
" Come, you Bolter 1" retorted Droolby.
"Don't go for to accuse a honest chap of
bribery, eruption, blackmail, an' sich. Cut
bene whids an' amputate yer mahogany (give
civil words and be off with you).  Yer a sly
boots, an' I must see what you're got under.
cover. A bit o' kidnapping' has been done
of late, an' I'm on the trail. So move yer
pins, an' open yer private boxes."
" These coves needn't go;" said Bolter,
looking at Stephen, Magnus, and Davids.
" There's some things they don't need to,
know."
" Don't stan' chaffin'," answered Droolby.
" These is fren's as has a very deep interest
in this case. Where Driggs an' me goes, they
goes. Don't be vicious ',
Droolby scowled at the " damber cove",
and made an ostentatious dislay of his billy.
lolter muttered, and- taking a "glint",
nodded to Droolby to follow.
Magnus, who was closely observing every
moveinent, spoke in a low voice to Parkhurst,
and said :
"Manage to drop behind, and escape, if
possible. One of us must escape. If oppor-
tunity offers to me, and not to you, I will im-
prove it. So let it be understood."
" I approve of it," answered -Parkhurst.
'It is agreed upon. The, escape of one may
insure the safety of both. I am afraid, Mag-j

0

a

nus.: A. cold tenor is upon ,e. We have
:been deceived. . Those men are;not deteq-
tives,but low villains. Give me the pistol.
Now is your chance."
"Thank heaven, yes !" Whispered Magnus.
"Here it is; take it. Providence guide your
hand should you have o gcasion to use it !
Remember to keep behind, and if you sud-
. denly miss me, bear in mind that it is not a
cowardly desertion.  We shall soon lknow
whether these men mean mischief.. In some
of the murky passages one of us may loiter a
moment, perhaps, without being missed ;
and that moment may suffice. A moment is
sometimes fraught with momentous conse-
quences."
A small revolver changed hands adroitly.
Davids saw a quick, and as it seemed to him,
stealthy movement ; but what it had accom-
plished, or what it had portended, 4e could
only suspect. That person's grief fo? the ab-
duction of his daughter appeared of a fitful
character. The consciousness of his trouble
came and went strangely. He did not evince
that constant anxiety that the ostensible situa-
tion naturally demanded. :He kept above the
tide, to use his own figurative style, wonder-
fully well. The conviction that deception
had been practiced, had grown so strong in
Stephen's mind, that it was very much like
certainty. He glanced at the squalid faces
that made the ken look like the .abode of
fiends, in the faint hope of finding evidence
of sufficeent goodness to hang an expectation
upon ; but he might as well have searched a
Pandemonium for a cool spring of water.
CHAPTER     XV.
IN THE TRAP.
Under different circumstances,' Stephen
would have been glad to leave the wretches,
whose boisterous levity made him sick at
heart ; but as matters were, when he followed
Droolby, Driggs; and Davids, from the lair,
and the door closed after him, he felt a sort
of regret; and human companionship, how-
ever degraded, he esteemed preferable to the
gloomy uncertainty before him, under the
guidance of Bolter.
It was then that he began to realize how
much he was cut off from the busy, breath-
ing world. To perpetrate crime in such a
place, was nearly equivalent to-a guaranty of
immunity from punishment. A blow, a
thrust, would accomplish the deed. Even a
pistoLshot would attract no attention from
persons in the streets. He thought how easy
it was to stop the beating of a heart and the
pulsation of an artery. He looked at Mag-
nus, and sighed for Ursula and Sibylla, and
the safety of the brown-stone house. Lost
homes are regretted. He said to himself;

"lithe to; Y 'hhvb been happy without
knowing it."
Botier edthred another den, where'a with-
ered old *omatih aa brewing  eS kind of a
both over  smoke. We call it a Smoke,
because very little flame was visible. There
Was a younger woman thefe,-and a-deforned
boy burrowed in a corner.
" Asnuggery, this is," said Dr-olby. "Yer
oen private conweniency, I spect?"
Bolter answered : "Yes."
" Warn in winter an' cool 'in summer,"
added Droolby. "'T*otild bS wery-pleasant,
howsomever, if yer had a pluckier draft to
yer fireplace."
The arrangement for getting rid of the
smoke was very simple. A rusty Stovepipe
had been ingeniously introduced into achim-
ney above.
" Don't go for to give yerself the gout with
high livin'," admonished  Droolby, face-
tiously. " Use pavin'stones for soup, an' save
yer bones agin a time o' need. Strong wittles
does violence to the stoniiok.",
The ancient beldame shook a battered iron
spoon at the brilliant Droolby.,
" Wentilate yer wiciousnSss," said he, pre-
serving that amiable temper that so much
distinguished him._. "This here is yer own
hotel, an' yer not obleeged to entertain angels
unawar's, 'thout givin' 'em a piece, o' yer
nilhd."          ,    -.
" Don't vex her," said Bolter.
" Wex her !" quoth Droolby. "You can't
wex her. Her temper's sweeter 'n winegar.
It's jolly to have a 'wirtuotus household.
Here's a infant, too. A reg'lar Richard
Third, that ,infant is. He'll take to tragedy,
as a fish to the water. No iakin' up to do.
Born with the shoulders on.. What an in-
Wention! Yer a deep un, Bolter. That's
wot I call lookin' ahead. 'Twas done \by
breakin' his back, I spect.",
The-deformed boy crept-behind his mother,
who sat gazing absently at the few smoking.
fagots on the broken bricks, called by court-
esy a fire-place, and which was but a miser-
able caricature of that useful contrivance.
l3olters den was a burlesque on life and liv-
ing ; if things so serious can be burlesqued.
Misery is often grotesque, and is always sad.,
" His back might as well been broke,"
muttered the hag, who was simmering the
witch-broth, " for all the good he does. If I
had my way, I'd throw him into the'sewer,
hump and all. I'd send him out of this, least-
ways. He's as able to go a begin' pan' Mteal-,
in' as any kiddy of his age. I believes in
ev'ry one doin' their part."
The ogress thrust her spoon into' the dia-
bolical caldron, and made a commotion among
the bones; then added, in adismal, croaking
strain:

"Why do ye bfing all-these gain' coves
down here ? Ain't they nothin' to do, but to
ioke their noses into other folkses business ?
Bingavast, an' leave me alone 1"
Hold up, you batamaran! Ugly woman t
Ain't got a bleak imort stoWed away amongg
yer duds, have,ye ?"
Stephen looked for the duds spoken of, but
could sde nothing but a heap, of sticks and
chips, some shavings in a box, an old tin
dipper, and the kettle sweating over the
smoke.
" Peer and peep !" qcuoth the ogress. "Yer
welcome to all ye'll find. There's a good
many cornets, you see," she went on, sarcast-
ically, "an' a +good many holes where a gal
could be hid. A gal brought here again her
will, wbldi't raake no noise, I s'pose 1"
" That's what I told 'em,"said Bolter; but
Droolby thinks I've had a-hand in't."
"Stop yer patter 1" retorted Droolby, au-
thoritatively. "This- ain't all, an' ye know it.
Come, pall up yer traps,an' bring on."
"If I'must,'1 must," answered "'olter, dog-
gedly, moving the box that contained -the
shavings.
"I wouldn't be, so tame.'bout it," mumbled
the old woman.- " I'd have no bandogs bark-
in' underneath. If I hates anythin', it's the
whelps o' the law, which is -allus disturbin'
on us, an' a stirring' us up, an' a coming' an'
going , and  kin'.our bene coves away, for no
reason wh   omever, an' a clapping' their
wrists in rules. There is no liberties. Our
liberties is gone, an' the traps has; gobbled
'em. If I had my way, I'd dub no jigger but
on compulsion."
"That old leddy," quoth Droolby, "is
ready for the hemp. It's a pitty to keep her
a waitin'. But 'Tyburn tippets are not so
easy to be come at in' this 'ere free an' easy
Gotham."
"Bottle yer gab, or yell git this kettle o'
soup on yer head, as ye go down the gang-
way."
While Droolby and the hag were thus pat-
tering, Bolter,-greatly to the surprise of Ste-
phen 'and Magnus, lifted a trapdoor and re-
'vealed a black hole at his feet.
" Give me yer darkey" (lantern), he said,
an come along."     ,
Bolter stepped into the hole, and had it not
been for (the light of the lantern, he would
have entirely disappeared in the Stygian
darkness. ':.here was a moment's hesitation
about the -order of going, which Droolby
terminated by thrusting himself into the sus-
picious, aperture. Driggs glanced at David,
and': the latter went next, with the observa-
tion:
"It looks like going' under the tide."
" Come on,"'added.Driggs, addressing Mag-
-nus and-Stephen.- "Go down, an' doniUt be

i
(,   f
f.
f1
'v

r
f
; .
r '
ti"

}
r
t


48                              SIBYLIA JQY.
afeared. I'll bring up in the rear." Then to Davids pressed forward, offigiously, to aid
the crone: "Don't shut pan on us. Leave the detective.
the hatches open, old woman. The air mayn't  "Stan' off!", said Bolter. "This here isn't
be like apples, below."                 fair I" Then he knocked 'Driggs down, and
Driggs stepped back, and it was evident to a general scuffle;, followed, during which
Parkhurst and his friend, that he had set his Stephen found himself seized by the shoul-
mind upon being the last to descend.. -So, ders, and,.pushed through the open door.
-guided by the small red focus of the lantern, All this was very sudden. There was no
they went down a ladder, and stood on.the time for reflection on the part of Stephen;
ground. - They were in a cellar, which seemed none for resistance. He was alone in the
to Stephen quite uninhabitable.         dark, before he had suspected the object of
"What, in Heaven's name, are the uses of the scuffle. His first thought was concern-
such a place as this?" he asked, turning to mg Magnus. He put forth his hand;,hoping
Davids.                                 to touch ;his.fpend ; but met,.instead, the
"You ask too much," answered that bereav- cold and dripping walls. The darkness was
ed gentleitan, buttoning his coat to his chin, impenetrable. Stephen stood confounded.
to keep out the'damp air.               The danger which he had expected, was
"Were It clean enough, it might be used uppn him. He remained mute and motion-
fo' the fattening of swine," observed-Magnus, less, listening' intently to every sound that
with a disgusted turn of the nose.      reached himthrough the then invisible door.
"Yer a' squeamish cove," said Bolter. He heard oaths and laughter.  Presently,
"You've lived too long atop of the ground. Droolby said:
fire and light make a mighty difference in the  " We'ye got1 '9m wery snug."
looks o' things."                         " I pushed one .of 'em in," said Bolter.
"When looked at in pint of a ,conweni- Who pushed in t'other ?"
enncy," amended Droolby .                 " Dunno," replied Driggs. "The lantern
" We're under the sidewalk, now," said went out when Bolter dropped it, an' I got
Bolter, when they had' walked a few paces. hold o'  Davids mnstead of the :brother of the
What jigger is this ?" demanded Droolby, coif lawyer).
stopping near a door which his conductor  "'1 his is wexatious !" exclaimed Drool-
had pased. 'by-.                                               .      .      .
"That," replied the damber cove, "is a  This conversation not being carried onlmn
dummy an' ablind, an' there's no need as you suppressed voices, .was quite audible to
should trouble yerself 'bout it."       Stephen., He held hby breath with eepecta-
" Quite the rewerse," quoth Droolby. "Tip tion. It was evidentthat Magnus had made
me yer wattles" (give me your 'ears), "an' ,an attempt to escape, and was at that very
hold yerself open to conwiction. Dub that moment endeavoring to make his way out of
jigger or I'll make you whindle like a kiddy." the ken. So much depended upon the sue-
(Open that door, or I'll make you cry like a cess, of the trial, that Stephen found it ex-
child).                                tremely difficult to maintain his calmness,
It was then that Stephen Parkhurst endeav- and to keep his generally firm and healthy
ored to use his perceptions to the utmost. nerves!in subjection.
The light was dim, and the faces of Droolby  Bolter muttered; Driggs muttered; Drool-
and Bolter looked griminthe fluctuatinorays; by muttered ; Davids muttered.  During
but he saw only those two faces. He believ- this time,. the parties were, obviously, recu-
ed that lie detected arrant hypocrisy in both ; operating the extinguished lantern, and some
that the passing of the door by Bolter was a pretty startling profanities attended their
feint; .that the whole scene was by pre-ar- efforts. The wick refused to respond, with-
rangement. But all conviction founded on out coaxing, to the application of the match,
reason, analogy, and speculative evidence is and this delay was particularly agreeable to
attended with doubt; and Stephen, though Stephen, who felt sure that hisfriend would
morally, convinced that he was betrayed, improve every instant.  Should Magnus
clung desperately to hope and dubious prob- fail, he was of the . opinion that, he never
abilities.                              should see the .light of the sun again. He
"Run yer rig!" succumbed Bolter, un- thought he recognized, in this situation, the
locking the door with a rusty key.      handiwork of Richard Parkhurst, who could
"1Watch this cove, gen'lemen," said Drool- not feel safe and comfortable while ;Norman
by, taking Bolter by the collar. " Grab, him.' Drew was 1ii existence. That Richard sus-
-        Driggs ; an' you, Davids, an the tethers, pected the ,trick of the substitution of one
back up my pal, to keep the thief :from body for another, he could not believe. He
paddingthe hoof. If there's any wickedness did not court these reflections ; they came to
here, I'm going' to wentilate it."       him of necessity, molded from his immedi-
Drizes obeyed orders. Bolter struggled., ate surroundings.

i

t
A
4
(
.

BIBTYLLA JOY.                                47
He put his ear to the door.           that appellation in a tomb as deep and dark
"The fakement cove has dodged us,"-quoth as that in which the remains of his foster-
Droolby, who. was still cool. " Put after brother reposed.
him, Bolter, an' bring him back, dead or  "Was properly interdooced, 'cordin' to the
alive. Don't stan' about stunnin' him. Stun oosages of high blokes, an' well-bred dodg-
him, if he s unconwenliently vicious."  ers. Paiding me. for stoppin' to mention it.
"Fust of all." said' Driggs, "shut the trap- I was once a tannin' floor-nanager for the
door."                                  balum-rancum, an' never forgets my manners.
"It may ce too late for that. The old A  slap-up caper-cove I" be, an' can bow
woman '11 know," said Droolby, beginning an' scrape with the Buck of Dookinham his-
to chafe the tardiness of his accomplices. self."
" Hurry up ! I'll guard this ken till ye come  "Do you know Richard Parkhurst ?" de-
back. The bolt is pushed home, an' I don't handed Stephen, in an authoritative tone.
mind being' in the dark."                  " Ye hurts m  feelinks," whined Droolby.
Stephen heard the villains hurrying away, " I can't do wiolence to friendship."
and silently prayed for Magnus.         "Who is the scamp that calls- himself Da-
" Let nie out !" quoth Stephen, knowing vids ?"
that Droolby was at the door.             " How dreadful ie goes on. Stubble yer
" Sorry to say," replied the fellow,. "that redrag, Mr. Droo."
the gen'lemen who was with me of late, has  " What I wish to say, villain, is this ; and
tooken away the key."                   as you value your neck you had better give
" This is ruffianly !" muttered Stephen.  heed to it ; I will out-bid your buyer. I will
"Wery prowokin' !" responded Droolby. give more for my liberty! than you will get
" Dunno how you'll git out o' this dilem- for depriving me of 'it. If you want money,
my !"                                   I'm the man to treat with. , I can purchase
" There's but one way of dealing with you, one and all, with this infernal rat-hole
scoundrels like you," retorted Stephen.  that you scoundrels germinate in, thrown 'in-
"Which' way is' that ?" asked Droolby, to the account."
who seemed much at hisease.              " A regular Rosschild !" responded Drool-
"Money !" said Stephen.               by, with vexatious nonchalance.
"Money is a conweniency," assented the  Stephen thought the fellow would .be as-
cqmplaisant rascal. '                   tonished 'to learn his ability to handle so
" Money induced. you to undertake this much money, and his cool, incredulous re-
job," responded Stephen. " You were hired joinder, as sailors say, " quite took him
to inveigle my friend and myself into this aback". He felt a strong desire to take
execrable den, where, to robbery, you intend Droolby by the throat and compress his
to add murder."                         windpipe just enough to stop his respir-
" This," interrupted Droolby, rasing his tion.
voice. "is a insinooation. It's damagin' to a " If my friend escapes," resumed Stephen,
upright character."                     "he would raze the Old Brewery from the
"Your Davids was an impostor, and, you ridge-pole to the lowest foundation-stone, to
are all thieves, vagabonds, and cut-throats, find me ; and it would go hard with you un-
together."                              derground vermin, if you be not banged out-
"I wish I had witnesses to this violence," right. As a scoundrel, yourwisest' course is
answered Droolby, with pathos. " Little to accept a bribe from.me, and .cheat not only
did my mother think that her offspring wotild your brother-thieves, but - your employer.
be called a wagabones."                'The o  proverb says there is honor ainong
" Listen to me, fellow," retorted Stephen, thieves, but I doubt whether it applies to
with firmness. "I am a man not easily Cow Bay and its filthy, disgusting inhabit-
terrified. ' I never give up, tamely, to circum- ants."
stances. It is my motto 'to struggle with  "Wery complimentary!  Yer .morils is
Fate itself."                           dreadfully out a order. I was eddicated to
" A reg'lar- tragedy-cove," said Droolby, be troo to the proverbs, an' I don't want 'to
sotto voce.                             be waxinated with yer doctrings."
" If money has bought you once, it will buy  " Listen, fellow ! , Do you believe what I
ou again, and I propose to be the purchaser," have said About my ability to command
Parkhurst continued.                    money ?" asked. Stephen, emphasizing the
"Wery kind in ye,",said Droolby.      question by a blow upon the table with his
"You understand me, I suppose'?"      fist.
"I'm conwersant with the ling's English.  "Well, since ye puts the question to me,
Wentilate yer idees, Mr. Droo."         square as a brick, I don't mind answerin' as
"So you Know my name ?" said Stephen, I wery much doubts it. I've hearn some-
somewhat startled to hear himself called by what of yer history, my swell' cove, an' I


/

f-YLLJA JOY.
know that Nornan Drew is as poor as a them that is dear to ye. Perhaps, they're In
mouse in a church-orging. A mouse in a them same banks as you spoke of, where you
church-orging is apt to have wind in his keeps yer cole."
stomick,'specially Sunday mornin', when the  Perceiving that he had blundered, Park-
bellerses is a goin'."                  hurst hastened to correct the inadvertency.
Parkhurst's heart- misgave him. He had "I referred to my foster-brother's daugh.
lost sight of the fact that, in the character of tern," he said, "for whom I have the deepest
Norman Drew, he was necessarily poor. To regard. It is not asserting too much to say,
reveal his true name and character was out that I love them as I would my own chil-
of the question. Such a revelation would dren. I perceive that they are to be turned
not only destroy his plot, but be likely to in- out of doors, and that the assassin, Richard
sure his own destruction. He made an at- Parkhurst, is to take possession of Stephen's
tempt to shake the obstinacy of the provok- fortune."
lug Droolby.                              "Assassin is wery strong," .sugg sted
"You have been misinformed," he began. Droolby, with mildness.
"I can really and truly command several   "Let us'come to some kind of an under-
thousands."                             standing i" exclaimed Parkhurst, almost in
The spurious detective received this solemn despair. "If my friend has not escaped, and
asseveration with a prolonged whistle.  we must be kept under ground for a longer
Stephen, not being overstocked with pa- or shorter period, give us a dungeon that it
tience, kicked- the door, and said something is possible to live fin,and food that it is possi-
Wicked.                                 ble to eat; and, after a time, we will con-
"His brain an is cracked," solused Drool- vince you that it is for your pecuniary benefit
"by."This a wentre was too much for-him. to recede from .this villainous scheme, and
Then to Stephen': " Where do ye keeps the take the back track. I will give a thousand
brads ?"                                dollars to-be setfree."
variouss banks,"anwrdPrhr.             Wrresnbe          Buprvd'yo
"Will ye obleege me by naming' one o' had the; brads we couldn't trust ye, for you'd
these banks 2" quoth Droolby, with an unruf- be down on us with the plice, an' then some
fled assurance' that ptflanked the remainder on us might jerk at W timber or rot in
of Stephen's patience. p eridrwo              won't do. We dark uns has to
He vented his resentment in  harmless ob- look out for number one. Atween you an' I,
jurgations. Remembering that he was deal- Bolter is a hard boy, an' the old woman
Ing with a politic knave, he rallied his equa- above is harder. still.' They wouldn't mind
nimity, and replied':                   cuttin' a weasand, or snuffin' yer candle inn
No matter about the banks. If you will ,some other way, no more'n they would wal-
specify a reasonable sum, my friend Magnus' ley swalled4n' a nipperkin o' bloo ruin. I'm
r               shall procure it for you, while I remain here a regular kiddy aloggside.o' 'em. But that is
as a hostage."                          nix so be 'uiet, an' I'll see ye agin."
" Yer frien'," said Droolby, "can't be  " Stay!'I'll 'give you my watch for a light,
counted at the present time, havin' tookin it and something decent to sit and lie upon, and
into his noddle to mizzle the ken. But don't to eat."
Inwigorate yer hopes with that. I'll sager a  " Thankee," said Droolby, playfully. "I've
flimsey (bank-note) to a tanner (sixpence) got the ticker in my pocket now. Yer wery
that he won't pad the hoof to-night.    kind. Got any walables 'bout ye that ye
"Heaven help him l" murmured Stephen. didn't fork over ?"
"Better trust to his legs. Heaven, my   "Yes," said Stephen, feeling for his pistol.
friend, is. rather ambigoowous, an' isn't in-  " This frankness is conwincin'. What is
wariably on hand when wanted ; but one's it ?"
legs is allus with 'em."             '    "Open the door an' I'll give it to you,"                                                 -
"I want to know what you intend to do," answered 6tephen, with his finger upon the
cried Stephen.   .                      trigger of the revolver which Magnus had
"' Wery  nateral,"  observed  Droolby. given him.
"Some'at, it'll depend upon circumstan-   " There's no hurry 'bout it," returned the
ces ; but I reeking as how' you won't see cunning rogue. "Keep your walables till
the walley o' a caplull o' sunlight in a long we meet again. I'd rather be excused from
time."                                  seeing' yout in the dark. I'm goin' to see
"What! Am Ito be incarcerated In this what's become of the fakement-screever. I
death-sweating cellar, while Richard Park- wish ye'a happy noo year."                                  i
hurstperpetratea his villainy, and ruins all  With these parting words Droolby went
thathare dear to-me  "                 away.
" Which are them ?" inquired the ruffian.  Stephen Parkhurst was left in a State of
'I wasn't aware, appearantly, as you had doubt that was extremely painful ~ His mind                              "
VP

I'              '


y,

,)[
..
_
k
o
1
v

U
r
i
1
f   t

L
et
s
4
Y'
e
S

was disturbed by fears that were.not un-
founded. His.body was scercely less miser-
able than- his mind. The wet walls, the
clayey floor,,the thick and stifling air, all had
their effect upon the sensitive organization of
Stephen. But more than-the damp and the
mould, more than the nausea of the sweating
atmosphere, more than the natural shrink-
ings from pain, more than the tortures of
wild conjecture, was"his paternal solicitude
for the peace and safety of Ursula. Ursula
took possession 9f the fatherly heart, and
reigned there supreme, the queen of his affec-
tions.  The same paternal instinct drew
Sibylla into the charmed circle of his love,
and held her there in the kindly folds of
memory.- For them he trembled, for them
,fe suffered, for them his nature was aroused ;
and he resolved to bear up bravely, and 'to
fight misfortune with all his strength, never
yielding to discouragement, despondency, or
despair.              '
CHAPTER XVI.
IN THE WINE-VAULT.
Sibylla Joy was not satisfied with the
apparent death of her guardian. To her,
Stephen Parkhurst was not dead. She could
not, as the common remark 3s, "make him
dead". It is a homely form of expression ;
but singularly applicable to certain states of
the mind.
She . thought that death had strangely
transformed the features of her friend. She
stole into the room many times, while the
body was lying in the house, to look at the
face of Stephen.
An extraordinary doubt grew within her ;
a doubt which the more she gazed the more it
grew. She was bewildered. A problem was
before her which she knew'not how to solve.
She had seen and conversed with Stephen
Parkhurst a few hours before his decease.
Every lineament of his face was strongly
impressed upon her consciousness. His lips,
his brows, his eye-lashes, his hair, the peculiar
oblique lines that traversed his cheeks, were
so minutely daguerreotyped upon her memo-
ry, that not to identify him, under any cir-
cumstances, seemed to her 'an impossibility.
Alone with that pale mortality, she knelt by
the bedside ; but -could .not grieve as she
thought she ought. She arose, and said to
herself:
"This is not my benefactor's face. It is
like it, but it is not it. Does death change the
mold and contour of the beloved face so
much, that, we cannot know it'? Let me
think," she continued. "'Let me recall what
happened. He 'sent me for Magnus Drake.
He was kind and smiling, and petted me.
There was a pan of charcoal on the hearth,
thrust partly beneath the broken grate. That

BIBYLL

A JO.                                51
was not a.thing that I can remember having
seen before; but I did not give it particular
notice. I returned safely. Stephen's mood
had changed somewhat. He was grave, yet
tender. How I loved .his calm, firm face.'
She paused, and murmured :
" Not this race. He' evidently desired to
be alone. He enforced my going in an unu-
sual way. Therewas something touching in
his imperativeness. He pushed me out, and,
drawn by an irresistible impulse, I opened the
door'again. I never shall forget his pleasant
words.  0  gentle father.!  0  indulgent
friend I I weep to think of him as he was ;
but I shudder at this."
She drew back a little from the body.
"I lingered in the hall. What did I hear ?
The shuffling of feet, by-and-by ; .the sup-
pressed voices of Stephen and Magnus, at
first. The question is, What did those men
come for ? According to the apprehension of
my ear,' they bi-oughtsomething. One can
tell when men are bringing something, even
in an adjoining room.   What did they
bring?"
Thus far, Sibylla's train of reasoning was
fair, and'in harmony with-the laws of deduc-
tion. She had begun rightly, and with the
full force of logic. It was the proper method
of analysis. A transaction must be measured
by itself, weigif&amp;l by its own weight, gtiaged
by its own intrinsic width and depth. Every
event carries with"it iii own evidence, and
analytical minds will seize upon it with sing-
ular certainty.
Sibylla wenton.  -A species of mathemat-
ical inspiration guided her.
" I heard sounds. Sounds mean something.
They tell what is being done. Well, what
did those sounds say ? That nails were being
drawn, or a-box opened. Yes, a box was
opened, I should think. The more I reflect,
the more I sin convinced. How"clear' it
becomes ! Those persons whose feet'I heard,
brought in a box by the private door, and the
creaking and crepitation that I distinguished,
were produced by prying off the cover with
some instrument.  The box contained-
What did it -contain ? Wine, perhaps. A
very choice wine, probably. Why did he
receive it privately? Why did they whisper
and step softly? Need there be secrecy about
a box of wine?   Not ordinarily.  What
next? If I am a good listener there was con-
siderable manipulation after the men departed.
Magnus was there, and the charcoal was
there. I could smell the charcoal."
Here Sibylla reached another important
question.
" Would Magnus Drake go away and leave
his friend exposed to danger? He would
not, provided he had any means of suspecting
the same. Had there been any morbid ten,

,l
1

r


dency to.suicide In Stepen's mind, the keen- looked like a tomb. She, was afraid ,to lift
witted and practical Magnus would have de- her eyes, at first, and to follow the flickering
tected it and guarded against its faal culmin- rays of her lamp into the dark background.
stion. He would have said:.-" Stephen, you But, rallying her nerves, she conquered her
are morbid. Order :this execrable charcoal tindity ,sunlciently; to advance.' Gathering
away ! I am going to'watdh you." Or, per- up.her skirts, Sibylla walked among hampers
chance, he would have'said;, " Richard Prk- and pipes, iin search of sQuiething to bear
hurstehas been here: I know 'him. to be a testimony to the secrets of one eventful
scoundrel.  He ordered this brasier.: He right.
wants  to smother you. He counts on the   She found a 4tdmb witness, presently,
piisbabilities of your going to sleep and-for- That dumb. witness was a, Jong, narrow box,
getting .your dangerous -companionship.", I with Stephen Piakhurst's name painted up.
Am sure he would hate distrusted Richard on the overe.  Sibylla contemplatel the
Parkhurst, -having known him Tfor many singularly~prqportioned box some. minutes
years. That miserable, scheming man should before venturing to. touch it. Placing her
never. have entered this house. But where lamp upon a barrel, she removed the cover,
annI? :I will review the events of that night, Within:she perceived eome straw and bottles.
and I :will doubt less, or I will doubt The straw was loosely put. in, and the bottle
more. Occasionally, -I heard, words. I heard not place with much care.
theVagabond Richard's name distinctly pro-  "This," fused Sibylla, "is what came in
nounced ; also another name. . Whose was at the private door."
it?  I can not recall it. But it will come to  She put her hand into the straw to test
me sometime. Names come andgo singular- its compactness, and was immediately con-
ly. There were other things that reached vinced that, whatever came :in the box, that
my ears, which I will seize upon and thread was not the original packing. She took up
together at my leisure. The employment'of the bottle and examined'it.- It was claret.
these two gentlemen in that room was not of  " That nevercame in this -box," she said.
a trifling character.  They visited the wine- " This was Stephen's favorite brand. It is of
vault.. Was it 'to carry down the wine? great age, and it has been in these bottles
Should they not have conveyed it there be- longer than I have been in'the house. Some-
fore opening it? The next link in the chain thing else came in the box."
is startling.- How shall I explainwhatI.saw,  The peculiar shape of the box was un-.
when I'opened. tdh door and looked into pleasantly suggestive, It made her think'of
Stephen's room? I saw a map's foot--a slip- the last, box that human creatures require.
pered foot upon the bed. Stephenand Mag- How  the mystery - grew ! How  intensely
nus being gone, whose foot  it ? '      absorbing :it became I What bewildering
At this point in her review  aewas greatly thoughts floated in and out of her brain'!
perplexed. Not much less a ''sing was the There was not yet , anything definite in her
stealthy appearance of JohnJrome, and his mind, but she felt assured that she had seized
evident embatrassmellt and terror, when he upon a clue togomething very extraordinary.
retreated to the servants' hall., Putting all  She removed somge of the packing, to see if
these things together, ibylla pondered-upon she could find any evidence of its former
them. She was knot   person to;be content contents at the bottom. Wiile this em-
with niere mental operations ; she acted, ployed, she discovered a slip of paper in the
ast well as thought. The night previous to straw. She seized it with eagerness. It was
the burial of the remains of the suppositions a telegram. It had slipped from Stephen's
Parkhurst, Sibylla resolved to visit the wine- vest-pocket while he was ,arranging the bot-
vault.  Knowing where the keys iere kept, ties, and, falling noiselessly'into the packing,
she procured them ; and, at the hour of eleven, had escaped the observation of both Magnus
with a lamp in her hand, began her investiga- -and himself. With shaking fingers she un-
tions. It was not without shrinking and trepid- rolled along narrow strip.. It read thus : F
ation that she started on her errand. She passed  .   BOLTONVILLR STATION, Sept. 25, 16-.
the room, where death had so recently been, "To Stephen .Parkhurst, No. - Pyth avenue:
with hurried Cteps and some superstitious  "A middle-aged, respectable gentleman, who gave
flutterings of the. heart, yet with more cour- his name asNorman Drew, has just died at this sta-
than most girls   her age                n    ng himself dying, he requested that his
age ta     os  il Qfheag would have hody should be forwarded to you. is remains will
displayed.  She unlocked the doors with be sent bythe next train, and will probably reach you
tolerable firmness, and descended to the at 12 o'clock to-night.
vault. She found it very dark and silent.  ."JoNAS faownE, conductor."-
She had been: there last with Stephen. ,It  Sibylla read this quickly, then a faintness
was not so gloomy, then. The kind face of came upon her, and'she was obliged to sit
herguardian was wont to make all places down. For a time, her:ideas were greatly
agreeable to her.  Now, the wine-cellar confused. The incongruities and' possibili-

ti

F

E'I'
,
I;1

SIBYLLA JOT.
ties that crowded into her-mind in a moment, plunge' for the hall. Running his head
could not be separated and reconciled at against the edge of -the open door he wbs
once. Out of the evidences before her there nearly 'stunned. While he stood bewildered,
was an adjustment to make ; -but she knew  throwing his' arms about like flails, he heard
not how to make it. Conjecture ran its wild- the word "charcoal" pronounced somewhere
est career in her dizzy head.           in the room, in what appeared .to him a gob-
She put the telegram  into' her bosom. lin-whisper.
While her consciousness was staggering be-  John Jerome made another dash, and fled
neath the mental concsion, the instinct to with a.precipitancy which nothing but terror
preserve that import ut document -did not can inspire, confident that a spectral:Stephen
desert her. It was some time before she was was at his heels.
able to arise and replace the contents of the Sibylla, whose courage rather increased
box, which now had a new and thrilling sig- than diminished, groped upon the carpet for
nificance.  She thought" she knew  what the keys which the rascal had dropped ;
freight it had brought, and she wanted to get found them, put them in her pocket, and
away from it as soon as-possible.       went, to her own chamber without alighting
She left the vault with emotions far differ- her lamp. CHA ..PTR
ent from those with which- she had entered.       :CHAPTER XyII
If she was still the subject of doubt, that         - AGrIATION.
doubt was mingled with expectancy. If she  Sibylla's chamber communicated with Ur-
had thrills of terror, theywere exceeded by sula's:' Presently, the 'latter came in, and
thrills of hope. She was in a glow of mental found Sibylla singularly nervous. She had
action. She walked like a, somnambulist- flushes of heat and thrills of cold. She
scarcely knowing'whether she went.      smiled and she wept, without apparent cause.
In returning, she heard a slight noise in She was so strangely fitful that Ursula was
the room where, apparently, the death oc- alarmed. She took her hands in hers with
curred. At that hour of the night, and in sisterly solicitude.
that particular part of the house, any unusu-  "You are ill, dear," she said. "Let me
al sound was sufficient to startle Sib'la, or send for a physician."
even a person of steadier nerves.  er first  " On the contrary, I am well," answe ed
impulse was to hurry past the door ;' but her Sibylla, smiling. "I need no doctor but
next was more courageous. Without pans- you."
ing to reflect, and pushed on by'the momen-  "Somethingunus'ual agitates you," contin-
tum which her recent discovery had pro- ued Ursula. "Just now your hands were
-duced, she opened the door quietly and cold;' now they are hot. N ow you laugh,
quickly. Looking in, she saw John Jerome. and now you cry. This is not natural. This
He was standing'with his back toward her at is-hysteria."
Stephen's secretary, with a bunch of keys' in  "Then be reassured. Hysteria never kills,"
his hand. He was trying to find the keys said Sibylla.- "My bbdy is well enough.
that fitted the various locks, and she saw him Let it alone. You must allow the mind to
try one after another without success. He have its fevers, as well as the body. In this
was conducting his' operations by the light world truth outruns fiction."
of gas, which burned from afixture suspended  "What fever, what truth, what fiction ?"
from the oAiling, and which was between him  askedUrsula, quickly. "Why do you mix
and Sibylla.                            things, up so incongruously? I am afraid.
John Jerome was --very busily engaged. dearly I am terribly afraid !"
He saw but the locke and the keys, and    "What are you afraid of 4" inquired Si-
thought- only of the treasure which those bylla, resting her head upon Ursula's shoul-
drawers might contain.                  der.
Sibylla extinguished her lamp, then, enter-  "That your mind is wavering a little-just
ing softly, turned off the gas. The sudden a little."
coming of darkness upon John Jerome gave  Ursula looked anxiously at her adopted
im such a thrill of terror that he dropped sister.
his keys. The consciousness of being in ut-  "1Be comforted, Ursula. I believe that,
ter darkness in the very Voom where lStephen thus far, I am sane ; but Heaven only knows
Parkhurst had been treacherously murdered, how long I shall retain my senses. Such
was too much for his guilty conscience ; but things are in my mind; such facts and such
when he beheld the dim outlines of a figure, -fancies ;'such realities and such unrealities ;
he lost all control of himself, and cried out such shapes and such shadows; such frag-
like the veriest coward.                ments and such fallacies; such hopes and
Believing that the ghoht of Stephen Park- such fears ; such a wild drifting to' and fro
hurst had come to charge him with crime, among conjectures and speculations; such
and to avenge his wrong{, he made a rantic knowledge and yet such ignorance 1"

, ,
1


+l  e
} '
1 "  _
i s
+ It  i
f
4
TI
} i  f    t

/

SiBYLLA JOY.
: This was a plethora of words for Sibylla. me in the hall. To-night, 'I found him lin
Ursula was amazed. She lhad never heard your father's:roon , tampering with the locks
her express herself in that manner.  She of his private drawers.
wrung her hands and shed tears.           Sibylla threw ,a bunch of skeleton-keys
" isfortunes, like birds, come in pairs," upon the table.'
she murmured.   Then, to Sibylla : "You  "Those are his keys. I caught him trying
mustgo to bed, my dear. You are dying of them ;:and, entering the room lightly, sudden-
exmotion."                       -       ly turned ;off the, gas.  The guilty wretch
"Yes, it is emotion.-My soul is a pendu- fled, frantic with fear, followed by-the
lum, and it vibrates between happiness and phantoms of his o*'n misdeeds. - Our. good
misery," answered Sibylla, striving to con-  agnus discharged him, two, days ago ; but
trot herself.       '                    he has not_ gone,- Why does he not leave
"I cannot comprehend," said Ursula, shak- us ? Magnus must see to it.Kind Magnus!
ing her head. "Jrknow of no happiness to Dear Magnus ! I love him! The sound of
which your mind can oscillate. But there is his coming footsteps is music to my ears.
misery enough. - See. how tings go on in How dear are these human affections ! How
this house. Richard Parkhurst comes here they enslave us i How they, bind us to the
too often.  I cannot '.stir 'without being earth! They bind us to earth, yet exalt us to
watched.   It seems to me that Lucretia heaven. Be of good cheer. No day so dark
Fuller, like a still-hunter, has slow-tracked that there is not a star init. No star so dark
me through all this grief. Yet I have borne but there is a'daylightinit." , 1
up. So mdust you clear, up."  'Sibylla laughed and cried' again.
up  havekept up, andc  will. You know I  "My crazy dove a" murmured Ursula.
have been calm till to-night. And this,' too,  " At the beginning of this calamity-before
will pass, and leave me' serene, and per- it had begun, even-a little thread was' put
chance more than, that.  There are things into my hand. The end of a little thread as
that I would tell you, but I dare not, I can- fine as a single 'filament of ;a spider's web, I
not., In feeling,1sbout'in the darkness of have been following that thread, and wind-
these times, my ands touched something so ing it upon a spool of'. conclusions. The
startling that the simple telling of it would thread has grown larger and larger, until it
kill  u.has become a three-iod cord which cannot
":ITwonder if John Jerome is in the be easilybroken."
house ?" queried Ursula, shivering.  "He  Sibyllalfell to sobbing and trembling, and
must go at once for the doctor."         Ursula ran for her maid, who came season-
" No doctor, dearest.  What doctor in the ably.  The two began- to disrobe Sibylla
world is so soothing as your presence. Put against her will. Th  persisted in undress-
your hand upon my forehead'; its touch will hag her, and presentlyfhad her in bed. This
seep like a benediction from him that has decisiveness' on the part of mistress and
gone. You were so precious to him, that to maid, made Sibylla l igh the more.
me you are a partof him- You are the 'link ,. "Highsterricks !" quoth the maid. "Toth.-
that still connects me' with my dead guar- erwise Ianever see none."
dian. Dead? Who knows ?"                   "We had better l*ve. Miss Fuller," said
"He lives with spirits of the just," said Ursula.n ht     i
Ursula.                                   " I entreat that you(will; not send for her!1"
"And in you," added Sibylla. "In you cried Sibylla, taking One of Ursula's hands.
lives the nature of Stephen Parkhurst. I "I grant that, to-niht, I am. like an un-
loved him ; and I loveyou, because I loved strong instrument, aind give forth nothing
him and because you are like him. I wish I but discords ; but $ shall be in tune to-
could sleep. If I- could sleep an hour, I morrow. Sit you down beside me, quietly.
might awake with my facts and fancies less Let Annette lock the doors and turn-off the
tangled. But I think I may venture to as- gas till the room-is dim.  Nature's doctor
sure you that you, may hope for an unex- will come in the silent watches of the night,
pected joy. Some one may be restored to and I shall be cured Without blood-letting or
you, perchance, whom you have given up for blister."
lost."                                     "It shall-be as you wish,1' aswered Ursula.
"This is the beginning of madness," "But 'if you are not/better in the morning, I
thought Ursula,, more alarmed than before. will, have my own way about everything,
" I will call my maid, and my maid shall call and I will snuff ou your willfulness as if it
John Jerome, and John Jerdme shall call the were a candle."
doctor."                                   So Ursula seated herself by the bedside
"John Jerome is a villain 1" exclaimed and watched.    I'
Sibylla. "He has been an instrument of a-n
evil in this house. I shiver if he do but pass

If

CHAPTER XVIII.
SLEEPING AND WAKING
Sibylla slept; but it was a dbli
that lasted eight days. When s
Ursula was not siding beside her. S
it had been a long and weary nig
it had been. It wks a. night full o
anxiety, troubled dreams, and in
restlessness ; but, through it all, h
system bore, up bravely. Even in
tering delirium, her mmd had a ce
scions cunning that automatically I
over her secrets. If her wandering
now and then found utterance, litt:
her to excite the curiosity of the he
Lucretia Fuller. Not realizing tha
been an interreunum of such4lengi
her sleeping and waking, her firstJ
act was, to put her hand in her
learn if the telegram were safe.
remembered that while Ursula ani
were disrobing her, she had taken
hiding-place, and adroitly rolling it
no larger than a pipe-stem,,slipped
a very small hole into thelining of
This recollection relieved,: for a me
anxiety.
Hearing a slight, gurgling sound
ed her eyes in- the direction front
proceeded, and saw a strange.won
in an easy-chair. The strange w
very, c9nifortably adjusted. Two
one placed upon another, supporte
bringing those important members
a level with her chin. Her body,1
evidently been well-cared for int
nutriment, was extended indolently
depressed back of the aair. Her
propped up with a soft cushion.
looked hot and flushed. Her mt
o open, and her chin was somewhat h
her forehead.. Sounds of a mixed
subterranean character bubbled fro
and throat. The woman was sno
the strange woman's right hand a
had been drawn, upon which were
methodically various creature-comf
world, and among them a bottle
and a goblet. In the bottopn ofI
were some blocks of refined sugar,
with the contents of the bottle. T
,wonlan looked as if she were herse
ed with the contents of the bottle
the general floridnes of her county
it seem to be her fist saturation.
At this luxurious creature Siby
'in astonishment. How came sl
What was she there for? Sibylla r
self a little in bed, and was surpri
bwn weakness. It flashed upon he
had been sick. How long? To an
she .looked at her hands and ar
hands, always white, were now nee

SIBYILA JOY.
parent, and her arms had lost their pretty
plumpness., She was startled at the revela-
rious sleep tions of her own person.  She was ,much
he awoke, thinner than she had been.. A single night
rethought could not waste one's body, however fu its
ht ; and so measure of palm' A laintnesa came upon Ier.
f care and The chamber did not look natural. The in-
expressible stant that the thought, occurred to her that
er physical the room did not look natural, her eyes took
her mut- in every object at a glance. She saw familiar
rtaii con- thin, and it was her own room. She won-
kept.watch dered that she could have thought that it was
thoughts not. How could it be anything but hpr own
uc escaped chamber! She was soon assured respecting
usekeeper, that matter.
t there had  Who was this strange woman? A person
ih between procured to take care of her, ,probably. If
instinctive that were the ease, she did not like her. She
bosom, to was not long in reaching thatconclusion.
She then    "A nurse!" muttered Sibylla, sitting up.
d the maid " A nurse, if I ever saw one. I know a nurse
it from its well enough. A nurse is a person who takes
, till it was care of herself with the pretext of taking
it through care of others. A nurse is a good woman,
her dress.' who. drinks the choice liquors and eats the
moment, her dainties of the house ; a good woman, who
loves good quarters, good attendance, good
1, she turn- pay, a luxurious couch, and easy slumbers.
a which it There reposes her likeness and counterpart.
nan asleep Her head is bolstered, her feet are bolstered,
'oman was and her fat body flattens itself against my pet
hassocks, chair. That'riddle, at any rate, is solved."
d her feet,  Sibylla paused to gather materials for fresh
nearly on inferences.
which had    " How long," she queried, " has this been?
he line of An I really.much worn with illness? Come,
y upon the Sibylla," she said to herself, "be analytical,
head was andtmind.your nerves. - Weigh the circum-
Her face stances in the balance -of deduction. Do not
south was jump at conclusions."
igher than  She slipped out 'of bed cautiously.  She
nasal and 'found that her limbs trembled, and that it re-
m her nose quired an effort-to walk.
bring. To   There was a large mirror at the other end
little table of the chamber, and she went  and stood be-
arranged 'fore it. A single view of her person told the
orts of this story of her illness. She thought of the tele-
of brandy gram, and opened the dress.where her ward-
the goblet robe was kept. There hung the skirt in which
saturated she had concealed that important slip of paper.
he strange A hasty examination informed her that it was
lf saturat- safe. Relieved of an apprehension, she, re-
Nor by turned to her couch, and was about to lie
enance did, down, when the plethoric woman in the easy-
chair had a difficulty in the extrication of
lla stared some strange sound fromher throat, to avoid
he there ? strangulation., Rising a little from her bolster,
aised her- she took a sip from :the goblet, and with an
sed at her eye for future emergencies, replenished it
ir that-she from the bottle. While she was doing this,
iswer this, she saw Sibylla standing by the bed, and,
ms. Her somewhat irritated by the spectacle, said-
arly trans-  "Go to bed, you crazy thing I'


fitI

-
-' )
+1
r Fi(

BIBYLLA JOYL
Siylla answered nevera word. -She stooct  "I'm a woman," she said, assuming all the
and looked at the unwelcome woman.       dignity she could command, "as gives up her
" What undet the sun are you doing ?" she owh will and pleasure for the will and plea-
added. "Hlow many times have I told you sure o'-others. I'm one as has left thealloor'
not to get up and make a disturbance!- I ments of this vain world for a life o' useful-
0gi', have disturbances in, the house. I can't ness in the medicated chambers of sickness."
have folks'a runnin' round'an' a breakin' of  " But that does not tell me your name," re-
 st. Hw be I. gn' to keep up, if you plied Sibylla, curtly.
don't keep down? How be I a gein' to keep  "Oh ! if that's what you want, 'tisn't of no
up, and around, and keep a doin', if folks has consequence.. Howsomever, it's Abigail
no consideration for my nateral sleep'? Nat- Vaughn. For short, called fNabby. Nabby,
eral sleep is a thing as I must have. Go to only by them as I takes to my bosom. No
bed, you Insanity !"                     Nabby by them as don't take me to their
The strange woman's voice was thin and bosoms. Nothin' to you, my dear, because
wheezy, and mixed up with chronic adipo- you are unhinged, eventually, an' don't know,
cere hi the throat. Her manner was offen- Nabby from Nabigail."
sively authoritative.                      "I think there will be no difficulty about
"Go to bed, you Insanity !" repeated Sibylla. that, Madam," answered Sibylla, with self.
"What does that mean? Let me see. It possession.    "I need- strength more than
means that I have been insane. Judgingfriendship. I shall take nothing to my bosom
from circumstances, some time has elapsed at present but pure nourishment -some
since my lying down conscious, and getting chicken-broth, ur some arrow-root gruel."
up thosame. This coarse woman is a sort of  "Eh ?" queried Abigail Vaughn, consider-
keeper. I will test the matter at once."  ably disconcerted.
Sibylla advanced upon the woman with a   " How long have I been ill ?" continued
tottering stage step, holding up an admonish- Sibylla, retreating to the bed, and sitting down
ing finger. The gesture and the attitude were upon it.
a tulle startling. The plethoric woman seized  " A longer or. shorter period," answered
the bottle and goblet, to baffle any possible Nabby,.with some hesitation.
design of' confiscation on the part of bibylla;  " I suspected as much," said Sibylla.
to prevent any possible waste in case of an "You are a definite person at an answer.
assault, she immediately swallowed what was Now, can you.not inform me how many days
in the goblet, and held it poised aloft, to throw, I have been confined to this chamber, and kept
should the danger become imminent.      in this bed ?"  .
" Go away, you bedlam!"       "Eight days," replied Nabby, getting more
This objurgation made Sibylla smile, de- and more erect in her chair, and staring more
spite her faintness and weakness.        and more at Sibylla.
" What ails the child ?" she continued.  "I hope you hav, managed to keep com-
4' She never. came at. me afore. She's been fortable," added the latter. ,
quite peaceable-like all through it, 'cept a  " Tolerably," replied the nurse. "Toler-
gittin' up now andithen, and a wantin' to go ably, for me. As good as could be expected
to her sister. But she was easy pacified, and for one as don't live for herself. As good as'
I'd on'y to speak soothin' to her, an' to lay could be expected for one as makes a daily
acrost her a little with my chist, to keep her sacrifish.of herself." -
down."           -                       - Abigail Vaughn continued to regard Sibyl-.
The comfortable creature made this dec- la with a steady gaze.
laratlon in a spirit of mild complaint.   "Don't go for to play rational, Miss, for
" Who are you ?"' Sibylla asked, changing you know you ain't," she added. ~ "You're
her manner.                              out o' your head, and you knows it, and I
"What's the matter now ?"             thank a person as is out of her head, and
"You have not answered my question," knows it, to go to bed."
said Sibylla, quite rationally.           " And I would thank you," retorted Sibyl.
The woman replaced the bottle and goblet, la, "to get out of that chair, and bring me
and looked inquiringly at her patient, who, some water, and order a up of tea and some
with her white face and white nightrobe, was cracker-toast, and go and sk Ursula t4 come
as white as an angel.          -        to me."        .'.
"It's took a turn !" muttered the woman.  " The dickens and. the dogs 1" muttered-
"It's going' to show itself different. We shall Nabby. - ".Here s a predty mess ! Here's a
have  tother side on't now, which is dismal string o' things ! Here's a sleeplessness ! I
and toploftical, as 'tware. I'm dead opposed wonder how long a woman would live at this
to that side on't. Howsomever, for the sake rate ?"
o' quiet. I'll humor her, and fall into the folly  "Are you going to move Y" inquired Sibyl-
on't."                                  la, with decision.  .

SIBYLLA JOY.                                 57
"Eatin' an' drinkin' isn't good for you," herihcial muscles, that they' did not readily
quoth Nabby. " What's the matter with you respond to her emotions.
is the brain., You don't :want cracker-toast  "Well, well ! I ever did hear the beat
and water on the brain,'do you ? I knowed on't,? I never see a Insanity so cur ous since
a patient once as was down with a bilerous I began to go out for the benefit of othersr.
fever, which had tookert him off his pins, as But I'm net a woman to bear hardness, an' I
'tware, to be clean finished an' done for by don't miti what's said in the ravin's of de-
swalleri' a simple quart- of milk-porridge. lirums. Be quiet, child--be quiet !  Miss
Milk-porridge, jest as 'twas milked from the Parkhurst has gone to the ,hospittle to be
cow, an' no question asked."            cured, an' you're left sick to home, with yer
"Go for Ursula," said Sibylla,lying down, mind in a state that's like brokenglass."
and feelingweary.                        "Gone to a -ospital 1 " exclaimed Sibylla.
"Sick people mustn't ax for things as their " To what hospital ? For what purpose '?"
nusses thinks isn'tgood for 'em. Them which  To a mad-horspittle, where they keeps
have a good nuss has a treasure hid, as 'tware, loonaticks," replied Abigail.
in a measure o' meal. .Miss Parkhurst isn't  4' Ursula insane ! It is false ! cried Sibylla,
here, an' you mustn't ax questions, nor go to indignantly. " This is somethingdevised by
botherin' yourself, because yer brain is what's Richard Parkhurst."
the matter."                              " Don't speak again yer on'y guarjun an'
' Ursula gone I" said Sibylla, thoroughly pertector, who will take possession of this
surprised.- "It cannot be possible ! Where -ere brown-stone property to-morrer."
has she gone ?"                           " What do you say ?" demanded Sibylla,
" Hug your pillar, an' never you .mind. sharply starting up.
Take care of your brain, an' Ursuly '11 do well Abigail repeated the statement made re-
enough. . She's with them which'l look after specting Richard Parkhurst.
her, I'll warn ye. There's another case of  " Heaven help us I" murmured Sibylla.
brain. The brains o' this house is in a terri- "Heaven help us, for Stephen Parkhurst
ble state. They say it's herotitary, an' is won't I"
likely to bulge out at any time. -Things as is She sank back to her pillow and was silent
herotitar  will bulge out, sooner or later. a few moments.
Hers bi ged out, an' yours bulged out, as  "Richard Parkhurst," she said, presently,
'tware. Once bulged out mentually, and yer thinking aloud, "coming to this house to
bulged out. for life. That was the case with have his pwn will and way ; to 'sit in Ste-
him as swallied the.charcoal. .It come on of phen's place ; to say this shal bp done and
a -suddint, and ye see which follered. He that shall not; to be a gentleman instead of a
went to work an' smoked himself. The smoke vagabond. Well, this is changing the order
went in, an' the breath went out. Breath and of things."
smoke don't get on together."     -       "An' a uncommon nice gentleman iscom-
Sibylla Joy arose in bed with sudden and ing with him'to prevent him from being lone-
singular strength. Her firm and noble charac- ly in the house. An' sich a cowbuncle as the
ter showed itself prominently. Her eyes, gentleman wears! An' sich a rajunt stone
beautiful and expressive, were turned accus- on his little finger.!"
ingly upon the red-faced nurse.           " A gentlemancoming with him ! A gen-
"stop talking to me in this manner 1" she tleman with Richard Parkhurst ! That must
said. " I will not hear it-I will not bear it. be a new development in his life. What is
Do not come into this house to measure your this person's name ?"
strength with mine.. When I speak to you,  " it's something that repeats itself, an'
answer me to the point, and wait till I speak there's a deal of Dooke in it. It's Dooke
again. If you want to drink brandy and eat Dookeadooke, or some sichcur'ous thing."
good things, do as I bid you. Know that I am " An adviser and accomplice," said 8ibylla.
mistress, and that you can never get above " Well, we shall see. Let themcome. One,
your station with me. You may be a fly, to both. One, little girl may be wise enough to
annoy me, but I can brush you away. manage them."
Through obedience to me, you will remain  Abigall Vaughn quietly took a little bran-
in this house longer than by any other dy, an dropped another block of sugar jnto
means."..                               the0goblet.   -
"one little girl as keeps her elders and
Abigail. Vaughn slowly pushed the has- betters awake ; her elders and betters which
socks away with her feet, and sat bolt up- is a sacrifishal offering' for others."
right, presenting to Sibylla a face expressive  Abigail hiccoughed, and showed maudlin
of as much astonishment as it was capable of symptoms.
manifesting, and that was not a great deal ;  Sibylla felt her own pulse, and counted
for there were so many cushions of fat under carefully the arterial strokes. If they were

11

R

UUP


0

88

SIBYLLA JOY.

r           a
r
4      t
I
l     "  I
1
;
jj33   j(y(
R
Lr     fi
ti
i
.1     X
t ' f
Iy   J
1
'i
,r

I

not healthful, they promised health. They a face; -for the lady's person was worthy of
were not strong, but they were calm and her features. It appeared 'to Hubert Froth
regular, and the 'nervous susceptibility of the Ingham, who was; a close observer, 'that her
s stem' had' culminatedlIn mental clearness.( expression was troubled, and her-movements
With proper; nourishment;'she knew she hesitating and apprehensive. Her conpan-
would soon be 'well. She needed nutriment ion, who was a pale, thin lady, somewhat ad-
more 1 than' medical' attendance' 'The crisis vanced on the road of life,' took her by the
had passed,'and thy youthfl powers of life arm and drew her inty the inn'with more
had asserted their supremacy, and'were vie- haste than gentleness.' As the lovely young
torious-over' emotional agitations. She' said creature went in, Hubert observed that there
to herself:                     '       was a silk:cord attached to -the:white wrist
" This is- a game, andI will help play it. of one hand. At the moment, tlat.circum-
Had I been trusted it might have been better, stance did not excite his curiosity; but, after-
but ebnfidence was denied me. I' am partly ward, it' became a subject of thought.
the possessor of am stry'which is pr*htic  The maid, alighting last from the carriage,
of 'great' things.  as it really prophetic  followed the ladies with downcast looks, and
She 'thought, she 'believed in her.heart that with eyes that seemed to Frothingham a lit;
it was. But had there not been a 'failure in tle red 'with weeping. He gazed at this new
soneYpart'of the plot She suspected so ; and bright star which had so suddenly fallen
but that'was not clear.' She had faith that into the firmament of his life, till the. last
something-wonderful would finally happen.. fold of her draperies had swept out of sight.
Where" was 'Magnus Drake ?  She first  The gentleman who accompanied the
thought this question, then asked-it.' But she ladies, though well-dressed; did not present
might' have "ved-her breath:; for Abigail to general view a face calculated to inspire
Vaughn had sunk into a drunken sleep. Si- confidence. It had a brooding and -sinister
bylla struggled"bravely with circumstances. look. The 'glances .which he threw to the
She reflected upon'what she 'had heard, And eightt and left upon entering the inn were
planned what she would do.              furtive  and restless, and gave one the
"' '", ;'       '           thought that there -was -something  that he
CHAPTER     XIX.          ' feared or remotely anticipated-a ltent dan-
FROTHINtr AM.              ger that'might cease to be hidden by and by.
Love is'a great traveler. 'It goes every- The parties were soon shut from sight, and
where. It"has been found in the most remote Hubert Frothingham had been stricken With
countries; whee ciVilization is at the lowest. a shaft 'from' Cupid's bow. The, arrow had
The ' savage°breast responds to- the  entle not glanced nor rebounded from his', breast,
sentiment it Is' -scarcely to ; be inferred that but pierced that tough and industrious mus-
the article is wholly monopolized' 'by the cle which throbs'so unceasingly, and per-
human race.' It afects 'both 'monks and forms so much labor during the life of man.
monkeys. Lowe happens to' all. It may oc. There quivered the unexpected bolt., Sur-
cur at aiy age and at 'any place. It is both priapd, yet pleased, with the pain, he did not
acute acid chronic. It may come in a mo- struggle to withdraw the dart, but permitted
ment, or it may be the growth of years. It is it to rankle in the  ouod.
fast, It is slow'; 'hot, cold; wise, foolish ;  He had intended to leave the 'Golden Robin
merry, melancholy. It sees more than there -that was the name of the inn-that very
is, aid-is blind.                       day and within the hour; but he changed his
Huber Frothingham fellin love ; or, rather, purpose without knowing why. It was then
love fell-into himuin ti moment of time. He late in the afternoon, and  ubert walked
saw a face that charmed him; He was stop- about the inn in a restless maner. He went
ing at ' dountry-in, when a comfortable around it as many times as the Hebrew war-
traveling-carriage, drawn by two'horses, was riors encompassed, Jericho.' He looked up at
driven-to!the door.I The carriage-dooi being the windows, he watched eveiy fIgure that.
opened, a well-dresed' gentleman stepped out. passed or repassed him within the  recincts
The gentleman was followed by two ladies of the now charmed house. - He d covered
and a maid; it was the, younger of the two her chamber, presently, and her window be-
ladies that attracted the attention of Hubert came the target of his curious eyes. Hewas
Fribthingham. After alighting, she threw afraid that the parties in whom he was so
back the folds Of a thick yail and looked much interested would resume their journey
about her anxiously' Frothingham thought. before fortune had had time to do' anything
Her eyes rested an instant upon himself, and inhis favor. He went to, the stable and ex-
'that lance enslaved him. He was a strong, amined the carriage to see if 'it did not need
miind'ed and sensible young man, but a face repairing ; and, finding it in-good order, he
conquered him Perhaps do him some in- gav the' hostler some money, and asked him
justice in stating that hewas vanquished by to look at 'the horses' feet and see which of

/ ''

p   *

them 'had cast a -shoe. The rascal came to
him anon, with a serious fce, with the in,
formation that the off-horse had torn off a
shoe while standing in the tall. the young
lover feed him again to carry the information
ta the owner, who came, to the stable frow
ing and out of humor. With evident reluet
ance the horse was ordered .to the smith's.
The hostler was very humble, touched his
old cap to, the ;gentleman, said the horses
were "1fin bastes', and used his brush, and
cloth,. and wisp, of hay very assiduously
upon the legs Qi'the quadrupeds.
Rubert Frothingham sauntered back to his
beat, apparently unconscious that a mishap
had happened to any guests of the.house.
Hubert walked over to the smith's, to see
if the job was done well, or, possibly, for ex-
ercise. He paid the smith liberally, too, for
doing a little work for him which kept the
stranger's horse waiting for his shoe two
hours. All this might have been accidental,
but it looked like design. The traveling-car-
riage, which had brought the young man's
destiny, remained housed at the Golden
Robin that night.   Frothingham   walked
beneath a certain window till a late hour,,
with an abstracted affectation of carelessness
and utter indifferenceto everything pertain
ing, to thes Golden Rtobin. If he thought him-
self observed, he protracted his walk l1eyond
the area of the inn, and came back as rapt
and absent-minded as before. 'He tired every
observer that night, and regulated his con-
dnct with such skill that he was not the ob-
ject of suspiion.
The lights died out in the Golden Robin.,
lot entirely, 'however ; there was a faint
glow in the little office, and a faint glgw
above in the lady's chamber. He kept his
eyes upon that wmndpw, and sighed when he
thought of the fair occupant. 'Whiile he was
looking fpr the ,fftiethtime, the curtain was
put aside and the sash raised. Then a white
hand was thrust out, and a slip of; paper
fluttered to the ground. 'Hubert saw it de-
scend with' heart strangely expeciant. The
wind caught .up the -paper and carried it a
short distance. H  ran'after it and very
soon had it in his hand. It was not folded;
it was simply twisted.  He untwisted, it
quickly, and with .eager curiosity. Upon it
was written, with a pencil, the following
words :
"SIR :-The unhappy writer of these words is
the victim of a wicked plot. Iam unjusI accused
of iisabity, and the ersons with me arepmnitling
an outrage upon n libertyby taking me to a mad-,
houseJ, am obilge to write-the lines by stealth. If
you would 4 mse the gfie~test service that t Iis possible
for one human being to en-der to another, you will
ConVey this inforsdlatlon to-"
At this point the: communication ceased.
It was certainly an abrupt terjuipation. It

'

BIBYJ&amp; JOY.

was evidently incomplete. The writer had
been surprised 1n the act of writing it; and
no opportunity being given to finish te
sense, had dropped itout aitwas, hoping It
would be of sufficient importance to attract
attention.
Hubert Frothingham read it several times,
by the faint light shining, through the office-
window. He gould not form an opinion im-
mediately. Having committed it to memory,
he put it'into his pocket and lingered near
the spot where he had found it. Occasionally,
he passed the ;window  of his- nnknow
charmer; but the light was extinguished, an4
the curtain and the window were' quiet. .
continued to pace to and.fro, hoping that the
sash would be again raised and another se
dropped., To his disappointment, nothing of
the kind occurred, and he retired to bed at a
late hour, his imagination tenanted by the
face and figure ofthe fair stranger.
CHAPTER XX.
THE 5A8SYJ:UM.
Hubert Frothingham was a youn' man of
good family. His father had. enough of this
world's'substance to gratify every reasonable
desire.; Hubert was 'well educated.  H Te
gduaed withehonor at a famous institution
He wasendowed by naturewith manynoble
qualities, both' of head and heart. He was
maganimous and he was brave. He was
heal thy and he was wealthy. He had -been
casi in no ,ungainly mold. He pad just pro-
potions ofpersop, and i4pllectual gifts of
ngore than average value. Having enough
to eat, to drink, to wear, and to spend, no-
thing, apparently, stood in the way of his,
enjoyment. He was master of his own move,
nents, and could follow the lead ofehisdew
sires. His face was prepossessingM.-and, when
animated, something more thnthat.. There'
were times when Hubert was positively
good-looking.. There were ladies who aetu-
ally thought, him  handsome; but, having
traveled, he was nqt so much flattered by
their good opinion as he was by his own self-
esteem.
eHe arose in the morning, after a short and
not very refreshing, sleep. The very first
flush of consciousness brought to him, the
image of the yqung lady ; nor was he averse
to such a visitor, impalpable though it were.
He hugged the shadow to his breast, and
played with' the chain that enslaved him,
Having leisure, upon his hands, he had now
n opportunity to employ it, and to keep out
of idle ness.
Upon descending, helearned that the trav-
el1ng- ctqrriage had already left the inn. Tihe
hour being early, this. was a surprise to
grothingham. Eating his breakfast with

,I

AV


M
f.
ab  '
t
n
t t t3
(          v
1-
, "
r
rt,
ii
t  !4
C,
-i
r
t
{
r
i

40                              51IBYEL
snore haste than appetite, he ordered a horse
to be saddled, and, was soon in pursuit of the
of ject of his admiration. Having learned
the direction in which the vehicle had been
driven, he was soon cantering after it. Ar-
riving at a cross-road, he was for some time
in'doubt; but by disniounting and making a
close examination of 'the carriage-track, le
definitely determined which way to go. He
prebied forward with impatience, the miles
slipping easily from beneath his horses' hoofs,
bthe did not Overtake the travelers ; they
strangely eluded him. He kept the trail with
d56oulty, and by making inquiries of per-
ans whom he passed or met on, the road.
HO tound a farmhouse where they had stop-
Od a few moments to procure some milk ;
and the information which he received there
respecting the country and the roads, enabled
him to go on with greater confidence and
courage. The day Was far advanced before
he caught a glimpse of the vehicle, which
was then slowly winding its way up a hill.
He was careful to keep at a safe distance be-
hind, and finally had the satisfaction of see-
in the carriage stop before a large square
building, and fn a spot so lonely that it was a
diatter of surprise to him.
Frothingham, having paused long enough
to satisfy himself that the travelers had not
made a temporary halt, rode slowly back to
the nearest farmhouse, forming various con-
Jecttires concerning the patties, and reading
the unfinished note for the hundredth time.
The singular affair grew more interesting.
1$ was the being of a romance, and he
resolved to' follow it to the last page. If
wrong had been committed for any one of
these selfish purposes that govern the actions
of men, he had time and inclination to trace
it to its source ; and he could think of no
better or more pleasing employment. Had
the young lady been put out of the question,
it is probable that his zeal would have been
less eager and his actions less prompt.
He suspected the ises of the square build-
ing ; and a few careless inquiries at the farm-
house settled all doibt on that point. .It was
a madhouse. It was not called a 'madhouse
by the benevolent persons interested in' it.
Certainly not. It was called an Asylum for
Abnormal Persons. A very delicate anil
genteel appellation. A few of the country-
people had ventured to call it an Insanery ;
a piece of irreverence which had called down
the rebukes of the keepers, It had been
spoken of, too, as a private hospital for -the
insane. However, the mere wording could
not disguise the uses of the concern.
Frothingham was -not much surprised at
the confirmation of his suspicions. With the
mysterious, incomplete little note in his
hand, he would have been extremely dull

A JOY
not to infer that an institution of that nature
was the object of the journey.
Having, by his frank and engaging man-
ners, eecuted a welcome from the inmates- of
the house, and good quarters for his weary
horse, he waited till evening before proceed.
ing to take a nearer view of the isolated in-
stitution for the treatment of " abnormal per-
sons." As he approached it, he was yet more
impressed with its lonely situation. It was
far from railroads and important highways.
Was this for the quietude of the demented
minds? Was the solitude accidental ?
A nearer view failed to produce adore
favorable opinions. The institution was su-
rounded by a high wooden -fence, which
gave it the appearance of a prison. .He
cautiously advanced, and' at a prudent dis-
tance made the entire circuit of the, asylum,
observing closely every window. Some of
the rooms were lighted, while others were
dark.
Hubert seated himself upon a bench be-
neath a tree, and took counsel of himself.
He said to himself:
"There is a person in that house who has
excited my curiosity and my sympathy. I
have followed' her hither. I wish to help
her. How shall I do it ? She will be closely,
watched, and I must be- discreet and can
ning.. How can I communicate with this
young lady ? ' I will be in wait, and trust to
Providence."                 A
Prothingham was not in a hurry to go
away. 'The new emotion which the lovely,
strangerhad inspired, influenced him more
than he' realized. So, buttoning his coat
about him, he watched with the stars. The
house became quiet at length. One light
after another disappeared, The opening and
shutting of doors, the echoes of footfalls, and
the many signs and sounds of human activ-
ity that give life to an inhabited dwelling,
ceased to be heard. This was Hubert's op-
portunity. He arose and approached the
gate, which was a large and awkward affair,
constructed of heavy timber. This' gate,
Which seemed too ponderous for its uses, he
examined with the hopewthat he might find
means of opening it; but discovering a pad-
lock and chain on the inside, concluded that
entrance by- that portal was not probable.
Having been taught from boyhood that per-
sistency was a good thing, he thrust his arm
through the gateand felt of the fastenings, to
see if forgetfulness or neglect had left a sin-
gle chance for a further prosecution of his in-
vestigations.. It often turns out that careless-
ness leaves open more loopholes for failure
and discovery than the most persevering and
prying mind can make. So it was in this
case. The bolt had been turned; but'the key,
by some slip of consciousness, was left in the

lock. Frothingham, by a trifling effort,
reached the key and gave it a sudden twist,
and the work was done. Removing the pad;
lock and chain, he pushed.open the gate and
entered the precincts of the ;madhouse. A
large dog came down the graveled walk to
meet him. .Hubert was not afraid of dogs,
but, under the circumstances, hewas sorry
that the proprietors of that abnormal concern
kept one ; but there was no help for it. He
must retreat or meet the. enemy boldly. So
he plucked up courage and Said :
"Poor doggy !-nice doggy I"
Doggy did not seem much flattered, but
walked straight on.   -,
" Good fellow  Noble canis I"
The great fellow was willing to be a good
fellow, a noble cans, and a poor doggy ; but
not to sacrifice his sense of duty to flattery.
Ile did not growl, but he .looked very digm-
fled and firm.
" Don't!" added Frothingham, retreating-
"dont I I keep dogs myself !"
Even the fact of his being a dog-holder did
not stop cans.    ^
" Smell of my legs and you'll smell 'em,"
continued the intruder, resolved to use every
lawful argument known among dogs, before
resorting to harsher methods. The dog's
present object was; pot to inquire about the
strangers canine friends, but to put a stop to
his curiosity., Instead of smelling in a truly
investigating spirit, he cane up with busi-
neSs-like reticence of purpose, an, quietly,
set his teeth into the baggy part of Hubert's
pantaloons. There was neither haste nor
violence about this;, it was simply a matter
of business.  It was like an ffcer's tapping
one upon the shoulder, and saying : "You
are my prisoner."
" An incorruptible fellow !" laughed Froth-
ingham, patting the dog upon his shaggy
head. "I would give a hundred dollars for.
you, old fellow, even though you keep .me
here till morning."
The young man put forth all his .dog-
knowledge. He flattered, le coaxed, he rea-
soned. He assured his'captor over and over
again of his attachment to the whole canine
family, from'the smallest ratter to the stur-
diest mastiff. Canis listened to these -aru-
ments. His calm courage and his insinuating
manner of speaking, carried conviction
through the shaggy canine knob.-. With a
dogs .sagacity, he perceived that he had
caught a good fellow, and began to like him.
You may trust a dog to'know whom he likes.
He soon discovers those persons who have a
fondness, for his species, and there is some-
thing in such that prevents him from hurting
them, and disarms animosity. So this dumb
guardian, after a time, yielded to the caresses
of 'rthinghai sufficiently to let go of his

aA TOYS                              61
pantaloons, and to takethe subject of further
a gressive movements into consideration.
.he blandishments of the young man caused
hin not only to suspend hostilities, but toac-
cept his advances with some favor. He re.
ceived his familiarities without resenting
them, wagged his tail a trifle, but without
warmth, and finally .permitted him to walk
on, but slowly and with circumspeqtion, he
keeping continually between him and the
house ; a precaution which Hubert thought
unnecessary. So far, all went well ; better
than he had expected. He had now an op-
portunity to look at the silent edifice at hi
leisure. Of course, he sought for her win-
dow. No other window interested him. He
did not know how:he should find It, but trust-
ed to that chance which often accomplishes
things unexpectedly. There were now but
two or,three lights visible, and one of' these,
he conjectured, might shine from her a ~ rt-
ment, These windows were neither shaded
nor curtained, but they were latticed with
iron rods. The thought of their uses gave
him tinpleasent:feelings. He could not con-
template those tell-tale bars without sad-
ness.
A lost mind is nore melancholy than a lost
body. Among all the world's wrecks the
most mournful is a wrecked intellect.
Had he fallen in love -with one of those
wrecked intellects while it was drifting past
him ? Possibly; but he doubted the girl's in-
sanity.
Considerable time elapsed before Hubert's
vigil was rewarded ; but patience, that car-,
dinal virtue, :by and by made him ample
amends for his watching and danger. One of
the windows, that which had been dimmest,
suddenly became illuminated. , A light had
obviously been placed near it. In this bright-
ness appeared a form that he immediately
recognized, and which he was never, never
to forget. He beheld before him, not far dis-
tant, the heroine of the Golden Robin, whose
name and history he was so anxious to learn.
At sight of this gratifying'vision, he started
forward with such. eagerness that his canine
monitor made a low, warning sound, some-
what down in his che4.
"Don't be a fool, Carlo t" muttered Froth-
ingham. "I can't take anything-can I "
Carlo, sitting upon his haunches, with his
long, bushy tail lying straight andmotionless
upon the ground, his long ears hanging to his
throat, the top of his large head on a level
with his back, his nose, thoughtfully 'de-
pressed, -and his eyes speculatively down-
cast, answered never a word to this reason-
able inquiry.
"It' nothing but a girl, and we're all fond
of 'em, you know," quoth Hubert, fawning
rather abjectly, I must confess, upon the dog.

n
'1,
}
d
i
e
i
ti
t 2 ,'
tI
1k
}
,}

j


S S

A JOY.

03                             SIBYLL
"You don't think I can get her through those
bars, do youI" he continued, manipulating
the unresponsive poll of Carlo. " Come, Sir,
be reasonable, and you shall go home with
me to breakfast."
The knobby head looked doubtful about
that ; hut the young adventurer, taking sil-
ence for assent, moved forward till he reach-
ed an easy angle of incidence to the window.
There was a trifling remonstrance on the part
of Carlo, who seemed somewhat in doubt con-
serning the line of duty.  o  h   p-
SFrothngham had heard of throwing peb-
bles against panes, to attract the attention of
fair. lady ; so he groped for some pebble-
stones, and, finding some small ones, threw
them.  Some of the first ones 'came back
without touching, but, after a little practice,
he succeeded in striking the grating, and fin-
ally, the window. The expedient was en-
tirely successful.
The young.girl, as if conscious that some
one was making signals to her from without,
shaded her eyes with her hands in her en-
deavor to see objects from below; and, failing
in this, moved the light and tried again, with
different results. Frothingham placed him-
self in the most favorable position, waved his
handkerchief, and held up the slip of paper
which he had received from her on the pre-
vious night. The captive saw both the hand-
kerchief and the paper, for the night was
silvery with light. Certainit is that the
maiden's heart throbbed faster for what she.
saw., She thrilled with the thought that
Providence had sent her a friend. - She re-
membered the face beneath, ;upturned and
bathed in the starry whiteness. She pro-
duced from somewhere, I know not where,
the flimsiest little handkerchief in the world,
and held it up to the panes. It was to Hubert
like the fluttering of a white dove's wing.
That was a!messenger of peace to Hubert.
It was the very spirit of love descending upon
him. , His sensations were of a kind never
before experienced. He was enamored of a
beautiful girl, and this- was the beginning of
favor. He was so elated, and there was such
a premise of happiness in the heavenly bow,
of expectation, that he Was ready to hug the
moody Carlo, as a token of perpetual am-
nesty.That quadruped, having resumed his
sittiig,tipped his head a little, and listened
dogmatically, ;blinking now at the grated
window, and now at his charge beside him ;
not quite able, with all his canine claifvoy-
ance, to quite understand the meaning and
the moral of the scene. He knew, however,
that ie, was the hub and the centre of the'
whole thing, and that it would stop did he
not permit it to go on out of sheer conde-
scension.
The parties were face to face. One wad' a

I

prisoner above, the other was a prlepner be.
low. The object to be attained was intelligi-
ble communication to    be accomplished !
They stood- and looked at each other. lie
was not very fully revealed ; b'uit the young
girl, standing in a focus of light, was a fair
target for his admiring eyes. He made a
motion for her to raise the window.. She
made the attempt at once, but it was fastened
as he feared. Then he began to devise some-
thing else.  While he was devising, she
caught an inspiration and outstripped him.
The flash of her diamond ring flashed that
inspiration into her mind. Instantly she had
one of the sharp points of the diamond
against a pane, and was cutting into its hard,
surface as if it were soft metal. . Hubert sawf
her hand traveling in a little circle, and won-
dered what she was doing. By-and-by he
saw that same girlish hand strike .upon the
pane, when a small wheel of glass leaped
through the lattice and fell, at his feet. It
made some noise in falling, but disturbed no
one apparently. Carlo, however, suspected
that his goodness was being abused, and look-
ed suspiciously at Frdthingham, who picked
up the glass,-his circulation considerably
quipkened by expectation. Holding the dia-
phanous circle toward the light,,.he-perceived
some characters were written u on it with
the sharp facet of p diamond,   here were
the letters plowed delicately into the clear
substance, but he could not read them easily.
He turned the glass to various angles with
the moon, and, finally, with much straining
of the eyes, read :
.faqgnua Drake,
Attorney-at-Law.
Below these words were some fainter lines
that he could not decipher. Although glad
to receive this communication, it must be
confessed .that it did not convey a definite
idea to his mind. He was disappointed. He
wished to know the name of the young lady,
her history and condition. He held up his
left hand andh wrote upon It, in pantomime -
with the other. Immediately she produced
a slip of paper andsbegan to write with a
pencil. All was now going Well; -but acci-
dent, which is sometimes a roaring lion, in-
terrupted the silent proceedings, and marred
for the time the plot. In stepping backward
to obtain a better view of the pretty figure,
-he stepped upon a rolling stone, lost his bal-
ance, and fell against a semi-circular flower-
stand, heavily freighted with flower-pots.
There was a grand crash. The earth and
vases, With their various plants and shrubs,
were precipitated to the ground with a clat-
tering 'that was truly - startling.  These
arrangements had no sooner gone to -the dogs
than half a dozen windows on the lower

SIBYLL
floor flew open, .and as many night-capped
heads were thrust out in inquiring haste.
Hubert Frothingham did not stop for
farther developments, but patting Carlo by
way of a peace-offering, hurried from the
yard. The dog, with unexpected good-fel-'
lowship, followed him, and they left the
premises together.
CHAPTER. XXI.
GonDoN's.
On the following day, Frothingham in-
quired about the hunting and the fishing
privileges, and finding them desirable, imme-
diately dispatched a note to a college-friend,
requesting him to come to him at once, for a
few days of sporting and rural enjoyment.
Frank Southerly was a young gentleman
of equal expectations, and in close fellowship
with Hubert. They had manly faith in each
other, and mutual confidences had given
mutual grounds for that faith. Placed as he
was, Frothingham desired the advice and
co-operation of Southerly. The novelty of,
his present undertaking afforded a certain
measure of excitement, but-it was not un-
mingled with doubt and uneasiness. His
friend had some experience and was fruitful
in expedients ; and 'in that restless state of
mind in which he found himself, he believed
that Frank would be a suitable and success-
ful diplomatist.
' Hubert went home 'with a bit of glass in
his pocket and a large dog at his heels. The,
bit of glass had information upon its surface,
and the'large dog had information beneath
the surface of his shaggy head. The young
man had about as much comprehension of
one as of the other. The writing was quite
as obscure as the intentions of Carlo. He,
looked at it again and again, after he had re-
tired to the little bedroom assigned him by
the hospitable farmer. It still read:
Magnus Drake,
Attorney-at-Law
The lines beneath these words remained as
indistinct and unintelligible as when looked
at by the light of the shimmering moon-
beams. The diamond point 'had evidently
slipped, and whatever else she ,had intended
to write was lost. He added this name to
the unfinished note, and the meaning was yet
incomplete ; for where should he look for
Magnus Drake ? There was such a person
in the world, doubtless ; but the world is a
pretty large place to look over. It was
rather discouraging to search for Magnus
Drake in so wide a field. Love itself might
tire with a search so extended.
He retired to rest long after midnight, with
his mind teeming with images of the fair

,I

A JOY.                              ;8
lunatic. Her beautiful face was set in his
dreams, and .her lovely person danced
through his Imagination like a 'syiphide.
Arising at a late. hour in the morning, and
raising the little white curtain to let i the
golden beams of day, the first object he saw
was the nose of Carlo pressed against. the
pane of the low window, watching for his
-new master., Hubert could not help smiling
The eccentric behavior of Carlo amused,
while, at thesame time, it pleased him.
" Ah l" said he, " I am a dog-charmer."
He raised the window, a id putting out a
soft, white hand, conveyed his matutinal
greetings to his new ally, who received them
with dignity and satisfaction, and put his
two, large paws upon the sill, wishing to
enter. Being flattered by the predilection of
this prince of dogs, Hubert pushed up the
window to its full capacity, and permitted
him to come_ in. He made his debut with
one strong bound. He sat upon his haunches
while Frothingham was-writing his pressing
invitation to Southerly, and seemed well con-
tent with our hero's society. Hubert, talked
to him as if there were knowledge in that
serious head. Heasked him if he were not
a trifle surly on the previous night, and wish-
ed to know his opinion of the young lady at
the window. Did he think she was crazy?
Did he think she ought to be there? Would
he go -up with him to see her ? Would he
carry a note to her? yogs had carried notes.
So had pigeons. At any rate, they would
have some pleasant walks together.
To all this Bow Wow wagged assent.
Thus was rapport established between man
and dog. They breakfasted together, with
much politeness on the part of Hubert, and
much.decorum on the part of Carlo.
Farmer ,Gordon, Mrs. Gordon, and the lit-
tle Gordons, were delighted with, the acqui-
sitions to their household. Both man and
dog were popular with the little folks, who
declared that the character of the latter had
suddenly changed for the better,, as he was
wont to be exceedingly churlish up at the
large house. Mrs. Gordon, who was a sen-
sible woman, firmed,. after Fi-othingham
had gone out to look at the farn with her
husband, that dogs instinctively knew good-
hearted people; and that a man who is fond
of dogs would be fond of his wife ; and, for
her part,- she would rather have a sagacious
dog select a husband for h'er than a match-
making mamma.
"That young follow," quoth Mrs. Gordon,
"will be a favorite among the ladies. And
did you notice, M~atilda"--Matilda was the
oldest dughter-4, what small feet and hands
he had? His hands are white enough, I
hope ? But a lad can't have white hands
and work on a farm. Bless you, Ma. Gor=


64

Sil3tIiLA 50Y.

I
Fr

don never had white hands in lils lifb; but
he's' been a good husband for all that. I
shouldn't wonder if this Mr.-t''    Sr-
"Frothitighan," prompted Matilda.
".W s deed in loVe "with somebody up to
the Ilmanerj."
"' I 'think .so  Mo !"' said Matilda, with a'
slightly eonteipiuous jerk of his head. "He
wouldn't go wanderingabbut, in the night if;
he hacln't'got somebody in his eye."
" He acts just as yotir father did, Matil-'
da, when he lbst saw me," replied Mrs. Gor-
don, with simplicity. "They said he 'rasi
dreadful ubsejt-minded likd in, those dayss"
"Was you pretty, mother "
"I don't know, child; your father -thought,
I was. Leastwise, he =aid so, and he did talk
a good deal of nonsense,'dear ; and I was silly'
enough to hear him, and to-grow fond of him.'
Now,'I suppose, if he had told, me that I was
sensible and 'homely, that 'nothing would
have come of 'our courtship. Men don't mar-,
ry girls altogether for their intellect, I sup-
pose, but for something that Is womanly
about them, that can't be told or described,
nor scarcely'known by'any name. Don't be
strong-minded, my'dear, but'be a woman."
" He wouldn't go and fall in love with a
lunatic, would he, mother ?" Matilda asked,
naively.
"Bless you, child love is an accident ! It
is as much' an accident as being run over
by the cars, and is sometimes about as sud-
den."
"Dear me I" murmured Matilda.      " I
thought it was a pleasant thing."
"It's pleasant enough, for that matter;"
answered Mrs. Gordon, keeping quietly about
her work; "but it isn't so 'comfortable at
first, when people don't know  how they
stand, and how the yes and no :question is.
And sometimes a girl don't know her ,own
mind, that's a fact. When a girl don't knowI
her own mind, she must be worked round
careful, and not hurried; for if you hurry'
her, you'lose her. When the thihg is mutual,
why, of course, it is different, and those two
people are ready-to fly into each other's arms
at the first opportunity, unless," added'Mrs.
Gordonuprudently, "she should be coquettish
and play shy, just to bring him out, and make
hind fonder of her, and more earnest. , But it's
best, dear, not to carry that sort of thing too
far ; for some fellows are impatient, and so
blind that they can't see love in aroguish eye.
But a proud girl, once caught, she's as 'gentlir
as a' dove. As I was sa 'g, this young man
has something 'on his mi,'; and if itin't a
young woman, I am gre    mistakened."
"1Perhaps he has got rdlations in that terri-
ble house," suggested Matilda.
"Heaven pity them if he has !" said Mrs.
Gordon, shaking her head.

"Perhaps he's insane -himselfW, observed
the girl.
"One kind of insanity," returned the
mother. "That kind which comes of itself,
and goes whentit-pleases, and does not depend
on the state of the body. He will not go away
in a hurry. ,{e spoke to me of staying some
time, and of having a friend, coning to see
him."
"I shouldn't wonder if the two should carry
the crazy lady off.",
All persons are not mad who are sent to
madhouses,"' returned Mrs. Gordon, with
emphasis; "I've known peopleto be shut up
in asylums, who could not, from the very na-
ture of their -organizaions, be insane. I knew
a man who seat his wife to an. Insanery, be.
cause she discovered n, disgraceful intrigue
carried on under her very nose, and involv.
ing the reputation of a, bright young girl.
Well, she went among the unfortunate ones,
and she can tell you how folks are treated by
hirelings who have authority, and can do as
they please without regard to justice, decency.
or the common' claims of humanity. If our
friends won't take care of us when we're out
of our mind, strangers won't. Do not expect
of strangers what you do not expect of friends.
Doctors are good enough and sensible enough,
but they're apt to become careless and har.
dened, and ;impenetrable to the outcries of
human nature. A doctor is a -being who is
case-hardened by the contemplation of pain
Doctor Brooks, who keeps the house on the,
hill there, which is called a hospital, is nota
man tebe trusted with sick minds, nor well
ones, either, for.that matter., He ted to get
a living-by general, practice, failed, and grew
sour, and has. growled.,at everybody ever
since., It is whispered," continued Mrs. Gor.
don, pausing in her work,, and lowering her
voice, "that he is as cruel as a tiger, and
rough as. a bear. I shu1d rather be an Al-
gerine than be Doctor - Brooks. I pity the
creature that he once turns the key on, pro.
vided he's well paid."
"All kinds of stories are afloat, mother.
Some of' the; neighbors say that the house
ought to be torn :down, and Doctor Brooks
thrown into the river., Mr. Frothingham had
better not love anybody up there. ou, being
older, ought to advise him to keep away, an
not to run risks. He might be fired at from
a window, or some of the Doctor's attendants
might surprise;him  And do him  an injury.
Perhaps, when his friend comes, he will tell
him what to do. He's a very nice gentlenr.
at' all events, and how he-made that mamnioth
dog follow him, is a perfect mystery.. I'm
afraid he has winning ways,,mother. How-
over, I have a beau,.and there is no danger.
Beside I'm nothing but a country-girl."
Matilda smiled, and went on wits her work

r
'

1                                I

I'

I

iH
Q5
OD

i

L


i
f

a,    T

SIBYIEL
- CH APTER XXIL,-
CARLO'S DOOR.-
Upon that day, Herbert Frothingham saw
he traveling-carriage which had conveyed
the young lady to the hospital pass the farm-
house, on its return to the lace frim whetice
it came. It, then, contained but two persons
-=the middle-aged' lady and the gentleman
with the sinister face. The thought at once
occurred to Frothingtoin toshave the vehicle
followed. But'Whom should he employ for
such a.purpose ? Gordon's son was too young
to be trusted with such an undertaking, and
his hired man was evidently'not acute enough
for such a business. He .took Gordon aside,
and made known his wishes. Gordon, being
a very sensible and discerning person, imme-
diatefy offered hi' services, provided Froth-
ingham thought him a suitable agent for an
employment requiring no little tact and pru-
dence.,-7
"That a great wrong .has been done to a
certain person," saicd Herbert; "I have not
the slightest doubt. In my opinion, the per-
sons who have committed, and are continuing
that wrong; are in that carriage."
"It would not be the first time,?' observed
Gordon, " that wrong has been done up yon-
der, through the agency of Doctor Brooks."
"It is not only the duty of every honest
man, but the privilege,.to ferret but acts of
perfidy and injustice ; ayd -having time, in-
clination, and means, I 4m going to. make a
mysterious subject clear and manifest, and
give plotting villainy its due reward. I shall,
gratefully accept-your friendly offer. Saddle'
your best horse, Mr.. Gordon, and follow
yonder carriage.. I will make such amends
for your'absence as money can make."
" As for money," answered Gordon, cheer-
fully, " I have no pressing need -of- it, being
comfortably cared for, so far as the world's
wants are concerned. I suppose that you.
will not like your agent less if he has in this
service a higher incentive than money ; and
to see that concern- leveled with the dust, I
would keep in. the saddle not only a day, but
a week."    ,
Frothingham  expressed his thanks with
waimth, while the practical Gordon ordered
his man to bring the horse ready to mount,
and went into the house., In fifteen minutes,
he was trotting after the carriage, and Froth-
ingham felt that he had secured a valuable;
assistanta
That night, he again visited the scene of
his recent adventures. He approached the
gate with more cautiousness than on the pre-
vious occasion. This time the key was no$
left in the lock. That carelessness had not
been repeated ; a circumstance that dl&amp;not
surprise him, as he expected, after the dis-
turbance of the $revious: night, more vigi-

.g
J.

- 4

I I

, 4

W JOY:67
lance would' be observed to keep out 'In-
truders. S
Carlo, still satisfied with his adopted mas-
ter, walked contentedlyy beside him. Find,
ing himself forced to remains on the wrong
side of the paling,:he threw himself upon
patience' and philosophy,'and made his ob-
servations at a safe distance. As a matter of
course,; the- window where he had seen the
fair face and figure was 'the special object of
his attention. TVhere was a feeble light there
to guide his gaze, That light was the star of
his hopes. It threw its pale rays upon the
woman that he loved. Youthful enthusiasm
painted her in beautiful colors. She glowed
beneath his fond imagination till she -was lit-
tle less bright than an angel.
The thing called-love is full of absurdities,
when looked at by the ~merely worldly and
practical eye; but it is true to itself and its
:causes, and is not so much a matter of chance
as of fate. The ocean of life is full of eddies
and -under-tows, which set strongly toward
matrimony. ' The.d eddies and undertows,
seizing men and women, hurry them toward
the vortex with irresistible force. Hubert
had fallen into an eddy, and was drifting on
rapidly. He was ready to incur any risk to
'stand' once. more face to face Witl the fair
young creature who had bewitched him. He
could not sit there and look idly at the win-
dow-panes. To attain, one must work.
Would 'she not expect him    to return ?
Would she not watch for an opportunity to
communicate with him? 'The answer was
obvious.
He looked at the paling. Palings were not
impregnable. Palings were made of wood,
and wood was assailable by simple means.
He began an examinationof the streieth of
the inclosure. While thus employed,'arlo
suddenly disappeared.  He looked to -see
.what had become of him, and discovered a
hole by which he had crawled through the
paling. The aperture was not ,of recent
origin, and was evidently the worli of Carlo,
having been made patly by digging and
partly by tearing off.the wood with his teeth.
"Here is an opening," said Frothirgham
to himself, "riot only tor Carlo, but for. me.
If love is aspiring, it is also groveling. Carlo
can crawl through to get a bone ; 1'can go
through to get a sight of a lovely face.'
Frothingham. hesitated.  He had, some
qualms.of pride about accepting Carlo's door.
If Carlo-could make a door, couldn't he make
a better one ? Full of this idea, he started off
in search of a lever. He was lucky enough
to find a stout limb, straight, and of sufficient
length.' Armed with this simple ,form  of
power, he returned,; and, by, putting one end
into .Carlo's door, soon loosened a pale, whih,
.once loosened, ,Was soon removed: ,This

~Th

' ,

;'
:S
i
;
.; k

0


Pr
~ i
V *

68.                             SiBYLA    JOY.
was, indeed, an achievement It was silently manifested in =n unfortunate stranger. If you
accomplished. There was nothing, now, in love justice, you can do me the greatest of
the.way of barrier, to hinder him from walk- favors-estore me toliberty and my\friends,,
inm. He saw no one ;, he heard no one.    "Nothing would give me so much pleas.
Ihe hour was eleven o'clock and thirty ure," responded, Frothingham. " I will do
minutes., It ' was the time when working- whatever I'ou bid' me."'
people are in bed with their dreams. Mad   There was palpable earnestness in Froth-
people, beingvery hard *orkers-their brains ingham's voice, which carried conviction and
never rest--might also be supposed to be confidence to the young lady's mind.
courting slumber ; while their keepers and  "M  name.is  rsl   arh urst. I live in
attendants, weary of their benevolent efforts New  ork ; or at least. should live there, to
through the. day, would be snoring in the be at home. I am here because I ai rich,
deepest prostration of sleep, unless sone ex- and an unprinci ledrelative desires to possess
traordmary emergency required more than my wealth. If    am insane, I have beun so
ordinary wakefulness, It was. then that the from my birth.. I wish to escape from this
friendship of the dog-served him a good turn. miserable place. I am treated w th rigor, and
As if conscious that some danger attended Richard Parkhurst does not intend that I
this nocturnal ,visit of his new friend, he shall leave this house. I saw you di sty
trotted around the enclosure, with his nose journey here. Your countenance looked kind
now to the ground and now in the air, came and benevolent, and Iappealed to you. I be.
back to Frothingham, and looked up into his gan to write, but was surprised, and threw it
face with a reassuring wag of his tail. The out unfinished. But it was not in vain. You
young man, taking courage, soon found the read, you belied, and you are here.  How
wreck of the flower stand, ,and, after watch- can I repay such goodness f"
ing the window a few moments, repeated his  . "Thin, not of-that," answered Frothing.
expedient of the previous night. The rain ham. "The consciousness of serving you
and rattle of the pebbles against the panes will be more than payment. Indeed, Ilhave
had no immediate effect, andubert sat down thought of little else since I saw you. I con.
amid the debris of the flower-pots to wait pa- fess that I have seen nothing but your face.
tiently the- course of events, Presently the side you alighted from the carriage At the
light disappeared and the window was dark. inn. The Golden Robin is no longer com-
In a short time,. however, his perseverance mon-place inmy recollections, but has be.
was rewarded ; for the light reappeared with come the data from which I reckon time.
the glow and brightness of the previous When all other places are forgotten, that
night. His heart jumped joyfully ; and more country-inn will be remembered. Obedience
joyfully still when that form which had to you, Miss Parkhurst, will be happiness to
'haunted his sleep, greeted his sight. He ie. The story of your distemper, your face
sprang to his feet and waved his handker- contradicted and settled forever."',
chief.        ,                            I am unspeakably grateful for your faith,"
"Ah !" murmured Frothingham; "if I answered -Ursula. " The way grows clear
could only get near enough to speak to her 1" before me, and I have confidence to-night in
He then observed--what he had not before the triumph of justice. ,ou must go to Mag.
noticed-that a lightning-rod descended from anus Drake."
the roof and passed very near her window. ' "I will find a shorter method than that,"
Being young and strong, and accustomed to said 'Frothingham, quickly. " I will take
monastic exercises of the most fatiguing you from this prison without waiting for the
nd, it occurred to him that he might ascend apparently tardy steps of justice. I have sent
to the window by means of the rod. When for a, trusty friend, who will probably arrive
she had answered his signal, he tried the in few days. Let patience be your physician
climbing experiment, and presently drew till I bring you freedom."
himself to the top of the first window without . "Speak very low," admonished Ursula.
making sufficient noise to attract attention. "I am not alone in this house. There-are
Standing upon the window-cap, and stretch- other unfortunates here who may hear yeu.
lug his hand upward, he could nearly reach Discovery would disappoint me too much. I
the iron ldttice of her prison. He was near have lost much, yet I have much to live for,"
enough to'make himself heard without' rais-  Her voice was, pleasant to the ears of
hug his voice to a very dangerous pitch. He Hubert. Her confidence charmed him. The
said: "Lady, I am here. Can I serve you? thought of being useful to her gave hima
Speak to me, and do not fear."           pleasure before unknown. It was not easy
The person addressed put her mouth to the for him to maintain his position; but unusual
circular hole in the pane, and answered, excitement gave him unusual muscular
with singular clearness:                 strength.
-Ithak you for theWinterest you have     "Risk miuat be incurred; butI will bedir

SBIYLL JBOY9.                                6
creet, and make the danger as -small as pos-      CHAPTER -XXIII.
sible. Have faith in your destiny, and have           A LETTER.
faith inme. Whatever happens within these  Abigail V'aghn slept on, turning all sorts
walls, remember one who cannot forgetyou of, wheels in her nose, and blowing her
is waitingand watching without. No matter breath through her lips and drawing itlback,
whether the night be fair or foul, I will come as if those organs would; soinetime, be her
with it, and remain till the stars pale in the total strangulation. This nasal, and labial
light of morning. I will come because Ilove symphony fell discordantly on the ears of
you, and my soul is yours. You need not and Sibylla. It seemed profanity' to see that
swer this presumptuous avowal, I ask noth- woman i# that chair, exhaling brandy, and
lg in return but the privilege of serving you. dozing through drunken dreams. Thinking
That will content me. You need not encour of the changes that had come upon the
age my folly by smile, or look, or word. For' brown-stone ouse, she was sick at heart.
get that I love you, and permit me to be the But there was an immortal courage in Si-
most earnest as well as the most respectful bylla. She would not be put down and con-
of your friends. Forgive me, Miss Parkhurst. quered by, her inferiors. There was some-
I hake said too much."                 thing more to be done than crying, and sgh-
"It were better left' unsaid," answered Ur- ing. The long, golden sunbeams, stealing
sula, with gentleness. " Sudden emotions through the curtains, fell cheeringly upon
should be distrusted. Sensation and senti- her bed, and danced graceful minuets upon,
onent are often confounded. The light of her hands and arms.
lightning is intense, but brief."        " I need a tonic," said Sibylla. "I know
" You have put'the effect for the cause. what I need well enough."
Love is lightning, and lightning Is eternal.  She arose, mixed anc drank a small quan-
Its life is hidden with the elements. The tity of brandy and water, then arranged her
flash is but its momentary manifestation. To- hair, and ,dressed herself with as much care
night, my love -flashes upon you, but it shall as usual. This done, she weit into Ursula's
be dark and dormant hereafter, save at your chamber and found it terribly vacant. She
bidding."                              saw things that made her flush with indigna-
"Be silent I" 'responded  Ursula, whose tion. Lucretia Fuller's wardrobe hung in
heart was beating fast. " Is it a.fitting time Ursula's closet ; and various little articles of
for this? Ought you to speak thus, or I to dress belonging to that lady were scattered
listen ? Reflect that we are strangers, and about the room. Evidently, Stenhen Park-
that the imputation of a dreadful malady rests hurst's house had fallen Into the hands o1,
upon me. Ido not -know you., Even your servants.
name is unknown."                         " The cons piracy deepens," she murmUred.
"It is Hubert Frothingham. I am a grad- " Richard Parkhurst is in the ascendant.
uate of Harvard College, and my home, is The weakest go to th9 wall. Ursula And I
Baltimore. I am of good family, and my, were the weakest. But we -will see who is
worldly affairs are all-that.can be desired."  the strongest, anon. - Stephen Parkhurst,
" Hush!" interrupted Ursula., "I hear like the Sphinx, will rise froin his own
some one moving in the next room. Say no ashes ; and when he arises it will be, in
more, but go away quietly."             wrath. But where is Magnus? I wonder if
"Yet a few words," returned Hubert. " I he has been here during my illness? Have
shall come with my friend .to .liberate. ou. Imuttered? 'Have I revealed secrets during
We will bring ladders and proper 'imple- iny delirium? I think not. I have a con-
ments. Expect me till I come, and be not victiofi that I' have not, So they have sent
discouraged though several nights should Ursula away. Theytook her from me while
elapse before my coming with this object in I was sick and unconscious,  That must
view."                                  have grieved her. What an outrage upon
I, will expect you patiently, and never lose justice has been committed under this roof I
faith. I have a friend who would aid me-  Did she leave no word for me ? Perhaps
my father's business-agent, whose name I she left a mote somewhere for me to find.
wrote upon the .glass. He would find me Ursula is cunning sand not easily outwitted.
eventually, I am sure ; but 'something may I will look in'her writing-desk."
have happened to him, and 1 will trust in  The desk had been moved, but the key
you. Good-night."                       was 'in the lock. She opened 'the' desk.
"'Good-night," 'responded Hubert; then -Within, 'were some drawers, anid one of them
cautiously descending to the ground, he left had a secret slide at the bottom. The.ex-
the inclosure, replaced the paling as'well as istetnce of this slide - was known- only to
he could, and, ,with Carlo at his heels, re- Ursula and herself: Where would her friend
turned to Gordon's, well satisfied with the ad- be so likely to .leave a note as there ? She
ventures of the night.,                opened the drawer hurriedly, touched the

, -
,t' '


1~
c.i
4 t
lj
I.

" SII YLr A JOY.

little spring that held 'the slMe, and found
what she had hoped to iad-a note,. with
"Sibylla " written' uposi it, in Ursula's neat
and pretty' h yudwritiing.   Seizing it with
egegness,she read its contents, which Tan'
as f01loWs -
"SISTER -SIYLnLA.:  eare the -      ctimsof a,wick-
e4i.conspiracy. Richa};dParkhurst wishes to possess
my poor father's prQperty, and to acconplish this
object he will not heettet td perpetrate the worst of
crime.  I am - forced to .leave , you, tweet Sibylla,
while yog are suffering from a severe nervous fever.
Thyo tear me from you. Heartless wretches!, I have
clung to you as long as they would permit me., Your
poor head has rested upon ,myibosom days and nights.
Dear privilege to be near you! The fri dship of a
bumnan creatures worth-s much! Y -r delirium
was of a singulirly quiet and methodical kind. You
were neither violent, nor noisy. You, lay patiently
upon, your willow, with your brlght'eyes fixed, now
upon heaven, now upon me. You whispered strange
things into.m , ear with a coherency ot thought and
reasoning thit was marvelous, and the effect pro-
luced upon my nervous organization gave some{
roloripg' to ,the charge of hereditary lunacy,which
was at that time hanging over me. I fear I must have
shown signs of insanity when the doctors came to'ex-
amine me-sordid and egotistical men bought over to
the Interests of Richard Parkhurst with my father's
money. My consternation, indignation, and excite-
ment, an operated against me, and I was pronounced
insane.  I nagine  my' feelings, dearest Sibylla!
They are going to take me away' I cannot help my-
self, and lagnuis Drake does not conne, to, Any aid.
Where is he? What has happened?   have trusted
in him, and you have trusted in him. 1 have written
tohIim, but my notoS went through the hands of serv-
ants, and probably never reached him. Going to a
madhouse !  Is this possible?  Have such direful.
changes as these passed over 'my father's- house?'
There is hope somewhere, surly  Hop vne isnot dead,
nor cas' t i e. It is in youe. Yneu will recover. You,
wjll arise from your bed, strong and beautiful, as you
ever were. You will demolish with your clear intel-
lect this refuge of lies, and I shall be saved ! In
this faith I leave you. Isayereist injustice, but I
cannot escape its consequences. If I -appeal to'
strangers for. help, a. certidcap of lunacy will be
thrust into ny face, and that settles the'question. If
I 'knew where they were goin , to Imprison me, I
would-tell you; -but I do not.- Beware of the house-
keeper !- Watch Richard Parkhurst, and communi-
cafe with Magnus Drake as soon aspossible.' Defore
Itclose, Imust inform youfthat .Riahard has brought a
stnnsi~ger here,.lie is a .fair-faced, soft-spoken; and
unctuous fellow, who tins villain'stamped upon his
brow. His name is Marmaduke, and he goes about
the house as if he intended to remaining it lie it one
of those evil spirits with- whom the sinister' Richard
takes counsel and associates. A will has been found
i      u whiceRichard Issade executor of the estate nand
uardian of the he-rs. Our guardian ! To think that
Richaid should pr sume-to enter this' hoite with'the
pretence of auteoity! He has the hardliauod to talk
of legal rights, end of carrying out my father's,
wishes; when the latter.,'wiile living, did not honor'
him' with the slightest trust orconden'tce. As you
know, he seldom admittedhim to' the house, and had
the greatest contempt for his character and person...
In4eed 4e heldhim in abhorrence. Its a unsgappy
hour ; but I do iot despair of'justice. Ke pa good,
firm heart, and all may yet be well. I have grown
sitpicious of' Richardr esuaecting matters innsediate-
ly connected with, orir dear atle's death.  ven in
yoper deli rianaks, you badie inc ave heart of haope, ad
your woriais 1tsingelee biteficy. 'You are' the "lears
est little enchmattss'that verwas. I know-that you
have discovered isognethi g; and that discovery lies
at the door of your illness. It was ob 'miuch, ap-

patently, for. your -nervous system. But your seeret
isevl entl of ajoyflnature.  ow ca1oneguard
a ;s retj n  eliiu?,Yet yyt guardedd yours. 1
le'a e this tamblin letter with soue .faith that you
will fendit. So, farewell, till this cloud shall red
its silver lining.                   URSULA.
"P P  .--Richard and the ,housekeeper are going
with me. Annette has been dismissed, and another
"iald, a relative of Lucretia TFuller's, and the instru.
mentof our enemies; astenslbly takes her place'.t
am to be carried somewhere into the country, as far
from friends and civilization as possible. It will be
some horrid out-of-tile-way place, where no one will
think of looking for One. '- Oh,misery.   U."
CHAPTER       XXIV,.       ,
SiBYLLA II'ELPS UERSELFI'.
Sibyllu read this letter, and put it in a safe
place.   While it made" a deep impression
upon her mind, it was not without a good
effect. It gave both strength and courage,
and she felt within her a new power to coin-
bat w'th Richard Parkhurst.
It was yet early in the morning. There
was some stir in' the servants quarter; .but
.the former order of the house was one and
proper hours were neglected. Si ylla went
belowi , having first taken a look at Abigail
Vaughn, to see if she'slept soundly upon her
brandy. She left her as oblivious as could.
be desired. She looked into the dining-room;
it was silent and vacant. She went in. She
was ht'ngry, which was a good sign ; and,
feeling that food was necessa-y to sustain
her, took a cracker froin the side-board and
ate it. It had a healthful sweetness to her
taste.  Wile she was eating it, she saw
something lying upon the floor. Perceiving
that it was a letter, she stooped and picked it
up. Letters'seemed to be the order of the
morning. This 'was directed .to .Richard
Parkhurst, and it lay, with a napkin, under
the" table, where it had accidentally fallen.
Sibylla put it into her pocket and left the
dining-room.    She walked cjuickly ' to Ste.
phens room, and listenedat the door. Hear-
ug. no sound, 'she entered. - The apartment
'was without an occupant.
" Ah I" thought Sibylla, " Richard -has not
the courage to occupy this room, or to sleep
up on this bed. His dreams would be haunt-
ed by'Stephen, and his miserable conscience
would bring spectres to his pillow.,"
' Having.noiselessly-locked the door; she sat
dowh in Stephen's chair, and read! the letter
directed to 1Iichai-d.
"MR. PARKHURsT :-The plan yru propose for the
disposal of, the hoepsceeper appears to 'me entirely
practicable, and tile thbugbt is worthy of your genius,
it will be very easy to detain her when she -comes
with the other young lady to visit the patient. Of
course, much ,prndeuce must bd observed. You in-
formed me thnalth i as very slnncitd and, judging
from wat I sawHof bert hen sIe was here, I fly
agree with you.- As these proceedings ire somewhat
exrtraordhary, and not.ustained by the Inus of the
anel, they will necessarily involve rrenSideiable ex-
pense. If said persons can-be held ie abiyerie hile

$II3YLL JOY.
y  '   -

you convert the property into money, preliminary to
leaving the country, a fdw thOusands will be, a heap
purchase of so many advantaged. What yqu do,
however; should be done quickly, lest some unfore-
seen accident compromise us both. . My institution is
so essential dopyour slecgess that I antic- ate much
liberality on your part. There will, no -eobt, be a
high scene when the lady finds herself outwitted.
"Miss Ursula has been' singularly-quiet arid resign-
ed since your departure. There was evesy reason to;
sup ose that she would be stormy and threatening,
-and I know not how to account for her gentle deport-
ment. There has been no disturbance around the
premises since the night you were here, and that I am
disposed to attribute to the dog, which has not been
seen since. Perhaps he has become disgusted with
the society of lunatics, and has gone in search of.a.
master of a different trade.
" As dates.and postmarks are often- dangerous, I
send this by a trustyrmessenger. Send the patients as
soon as you please.
"Yours faithfully,
"J. D. BoRK, . D."
'iThis significant epistle threw yet more
light upon the designs of Richard Parkhurst.
It was an important lihk in the chain of evi-
dence. She resolved:to preserve it carefully.
A  lappy thought occur l tolher ; she would'
inclose it, with a letter of her own, to Mag-
nus Drake. She lost no time in hesitation,
but, sitting down to her guardian's desk,
wtote:
"DEAR FRIEND :-Things are going badly 'here. I
have been i1 eight days, and you havenot been to see
us. I fear something serious has happened to you.
Richard Parkhurst has made and is making sor-owful
changes here. 'Judge of the evil times upon which we
have fallen, when I tell you Ursula has been pro-
nouncedoinsane and seat to' a madhouse. Theis-
closed note, which, I found this morning, will 'throw
some light on the matter, and show you what is In re-
serve for us. I know that there are some strange
circumstances connectedwills my dear guardian's de-
cease, and am inclined to thebelief that a startling
deception has been practiced ;,and if any°'suspicions
are well founded, you are a party to it. Iwas a list-
ener upon that night so crowded with mysterious and,,
as it would seem, fatal Incident. Proof is now in my
possession 4hatthe body of Norman Drewwas expect-
ed to arrive at twelve o'clock. At that hour some-
thinig did arrive. A long and heavy box was delivered
quietly at theeside-door, and brought into the house by,
men, whose tiv movements- and shuffling feet, as
heard by me from my cncdalment, plainly indicated
that their burden was not light. I heard the reading
of wood and-the starting of nails. I an too.weak now
to write thedetails. eAn enpty b  iwastcarried Into
the wine-vault by two persons, were it was filled
with straw and bottles. While those persons weten
the 'vault, a third, living or dead, remained in Stephen
Parkhurst's room, lying u on Stephen Parkhurst's
bed. For this assertion I' ave the evidence -of -my
eyes and the conviotions~of my judgment.
Now tell me, dar Sir, what I am to think of all
this ? Was ever anything so distracting, and so mixed
with light Sand darkness? low can I help feeling a
thrilling inspiration of hope? and-yet the mere human
will could attempt a plot so complicated, and involv-
ing such ci el consequences. But my guardian was
not cruel. ,iTo me he was al' entleness. I am.aware,
however, that hishatred of Richard was intense. He
despisedthee low ani vagrant villain who lived byy les
anits, and Ib -ought disgrace upon, his kindred. - Youer
dislike of him, I am sure, was no less. Yon and he
might have' planned a singular vengeance, and set
fatal traps for tiac feet of Richard.
"sBut if so,'why not come to tie rescue?' Why let
the wicked hand tail so heavily? I should have been

71

taien into your counsels. If this thought be not mad-
ness, I thould'have been most useful, and a nervous
shpc5 would have bees. spared Ursula. In recalling
my guardian's manner, I am convinced that he had a
great purpose'In his mind upon that night. If you
think I am getting wild in my expressions, I should
like to ask you, it Stephen Parkhurst died, what be-
come of Norman Drew's body, which arrived at;mid-
night ? Was it buried in the cellar? Was it bidden
between the floors ? Was it sent to. the surgeon's ?
Was it carried to the deadhouse, to receive a pau-
per's burial? Answer if you can.
" Should this reach you, your good sense willbetter
dictate what you ought to do than I can suggest.- My
hand is weary-with holding the pen, and I must cease
writing. I must add, before closing,'that, upon awak-
ing from the nervous crisis induced by some discover-
ies that I had made, I found an intoxicated and vul-
gar woman, bolstered up in my chair to the last de-
gree of comfort, sleeping a drunken sleep. Imagine
my feelings ! But Feame out of my crisis wonder-
fully calm and bright. I am weak, but well; and I
should not wonder if this weary hand, and -this poor,
girlish head, should'circumvent Richard yet.
Yours, hopefully,
SrBYrILA Joy."
-aving carefully directed her letter, her
tiext thought was to procure a trusty mes-
senger. Going to the front.of the yet quiet
house, she opened a window, hailed the first
lad who came down the avenue, and filling
his hand with silver pieces, soon had the
pleasure of seeing   his nimble feet hurry
away with boyish eagerness to perform her
important errand. S1e closed the window
with a sigh of satisfaction and relief.
CHAPTER XXV.
AN AMBUSH.
Sibylla returned to the apartment which
she had left, sustained by a strength that
was surprising. ' Recent- experiences had
taught her to move quietly, and to depend
more upon her -own efforts than upon others.
Soon after entering the room     rendered :so
sacred ,by forfaer associations, .she became
conscious that one of the adjoining rooms
was occupied. She heard voices ; mascu-
line tones, that presently gregy louder and
more distinct. Sibyll had learned to be a
good listener. ' Cunning was her line of de-
fence ;, and, from what has been spen of her
character, it will be understood that no op-
portunity of surprising tile secnets - of her
enemies would be neglected. In a mpiment,
she had placed a hassock upon ,the carpet,
seated herself upon it, and put her ear to the
Wall., , There was a; door cpmmunicating
with the room, but Stephen Parkhursts be,
had been moved against it, Richard being
afraid of Stephen's ghost, and having a su-
perstitious tenor of that apartment..- She
was, nQt kept long in doubt respecting the
parties engaged in conversation   One was
Richard, unquestionably, and the otfier', she
readily decided was the person referred to
by Ursuja in the letter that she had left for
her under the    secret slide in the drawer.
The douversatioat soon grew interesting, and

70

,,t

2


flow'ed on without restraint. Richard Park- theirway in Murderers' Alley, never found
rst and Duke Mariaduke had every rea- it, and bave never been found. When Time
son'to believe that'they wer utterly alone. at length gives his evidence, it will be but
The   ntitl, who is privileged to see the the. spectacle of a few discolored bones be-
1whole situation, will permit the reader free neath rthe.ibrings."
{espas to those who talked, and her who    Sibylla shvered.  What new crime had
i .'d.                                   these men perpetrated ?  The danger that
iUchard, well dressedbut still sinister, sat surrounded her was never so apparent then.
o    irtehisSatani*hoin an elegant morn- -Magnus Drake had fallen into evil hands.
as, lour','innupon cushionednd His silence was evidently owing to unavoida-
J  tr, guing ,sage ad'vice.  they spoke ble circumstances. He came not, because he
y ~darkly concerning- some things, plainly could not come.
out' others. The housekeeper Was,' often'- " I cannot imagine what has happened to
e rred,'to. Marnaduke was ; particularly:him, unless he lost. his way in the manner
pleasant in his remarks respecting her. He you speak of. He might have run the wrong
smiled and he rubbed Ils hands together, way in his eagerness to escape, and, in run-
aloking beiievOlent all the time., Although ning =the wrong way, ran upon the wrong.
lbyllaould, not see him; the writer reveals ,me to help a person in extremity," answered
it, through virtue of his ability to observe. Bicha Parkhurst, uneasily. " Droolby and
passingevensoneeeither side of the wall.  Drigs're clever rogues, but not clever
"Theo hdseee,'said Mairnsduke, "is enou h, eveni with yor help, to make a clean
a eery ni'e, person, d deserves particular job of a dir-ty busi ess."
attention ; Miut;' as a hatrimenial companion, ."TI' eonfss,", re tned Duke ,Maridaduke,
she 'is too smart for yfou, Richard.' Marry" that' I fe red we should not be able to keep
her,:and you will soon beri le ding-strings. above the ide.,The' facts in the case, were
Sie Would son "get your head under 'the these: 'Two persons were to be kept quiet.
tide; and sit upon'it. She does notwant you; You did not know how to keep them quiet.
she wants the money. You are afraid o her, I, being your Asinodeus, devised a scheme
andf souknow it."                       by which the,.object in view was -to be
"bhe 'Is tery shrewd," responded Richard. reached. I assumed adisguise, and became
"True," said Marmaduke, "and we will the bereaved Davids. A fictitious daughter
catch herin-her own net. Ctinning people was fictitiously lost. The persons to be, in-
are apt to stumble into their own pitfalls. I veigled 'fell into the snare.  Compassion
have sav'ed - you, Richard.  Admire my carried them where Prudence said, ' Do not
genius."                                 go.' They were caught with chaff.   One
"The salvation exists in theory, only," was a lawyer. A plague upon all lawyers,
answered Richard.                        I say! They are threefold more the children
S"It will, soon exist in fact. The mionent of the devil than the fallen angels.              Un-
the girl is ableto sit in the carriage, send her, natural cunning, crooked devices, unex-
to Doctor Bi-6oks, in the care of" Licretia pected plots, sudden turns of subtlety, and
Fuller, and the thing ' is done. Do not be damnable invention, are }among their quali-
niggardly with Doctor Brooks. If you Want ties. Commend me to something slippery it
a-good rascal, pay hinWell."            it be not lawyer! Bring me an unscrupu-
"I am   troubled about Magnus Drake," lousy adviser, a sly peculator, a false friend, a
icbard observed.     ,wily flatterer, a deceptive hopegiver, a fawn-
Bibylla held her breath, and listetied with Ing dtsteaer,- a greedy knave, and an un-
altpet paiitil intensity.               conscionable devourer, if it beinot a lawyer.
"Your 'Iln failed inexeeutiloh," he con- Deliver to, Satan, onhis guarded throne, a
tianed.                                  lawyer,:manacled with the deepest damna-
" His escape was'sihmply a'n accident," re- tion of ;in,and let him plead his own case,
plied .Marmaduke. "The plot' was success- and he will outwit his accusers, bleach his
il, and the thiscarriage of uny batt f it 'is misdeeds  and  orm  himself 'nto some
to be attributed to the cunning of the' laye'. 'subodintte office in the realis of hell."
Layers are people who niean to keep their  Duke "armaduke.pausedi and wiped some
Beads above the'tide."     -             drops of perspiration from his fair brow,
' x."All seemed lost when you informed me while, thb carbuncle stared at Richard, and
what had happened ; and the not lodging of the diamond on his little finger flashed white
any corhplaint with the police-authonties, light in every direction.
and his apparent silence, are matters of sur-  "$  mnuch for lawyers; .so much for that
prise."        s   '-glib-tdrigued brotherhood that casts itself up-
Perhaps he never left the  slums -alive," on society, to magnify human ,disagreements,
said Marmaduke, thoughtfully.  "He may and to feed the flames of hatred with the ury
have shared the fate of those who have lost kindlings of legal technicalities ; ,so much.itar

_V


i

SB

U',

5t
V.

\            ;r
t;k
T4
,;
_Y .
j
t
'  F     i
.l
Sri}   iq
r

BIBYLL4 JoY.                                    75
a profession that sets the world at differences, hi your caution. I wish he was put of the
and coinniunities at variance. But I will go way; Well, Lueretia must go,. if we have to
on with my'statement. The;attorney, having devise- a. new pretext. Sibylla will gladly
examined the witnesses of his judgment, es- remain' to take care ,of Ursula,, and in that
tablislhed an albi, in fact. Of a sudden he way I hope to gain sufficient, time. .By the
was elsewhere. Norman Drew-"              wayt we must -still continue to/have Drake's
Sibylla Joy thrilled with expectation. Her office.watched.' L have 'a presentiment that
person seemed the subject of successive gal-. danger wllt come ;from that direction, and at
vanie shocks. That nane was full of hopes a ;moment when we, least, expect t. You
and fears. "On that name depended the solu- must'be very busy, and very shrewd,'Marma-
tion of a mystery.                         duke or we may be hange yet."
"Norman Drew,' added Duke, ".went in,     Sibylla's heart quickened again.
and Magnus Drake went out. The failure or   "Speak for yourself, Richard; I had noth-
half the plot threatened to be. the failure of ing to do with the charcoal. , I do not belong
-the whole. One went down under the pave- to the Carbonari."'
ments and human feet, ahd into the reek and  Just then the breakfast-bell rang'
dampness and death of the dark kens, while   " I have an appetite," quoth Drake. 4"This
the other went we knov not where. We settling of estates is a wearisome business.
have heard nothing from him. He is alive, What would you do without me ?"
or he is dead. - If he is alive, and in his senses, Sibylla crept behind a curtain, so that if
you will hear from him sooner or later. So they looked ito the room, in passing the
what you do, you must do without delay. door, on their way to breakfast, they could
Your policy is this  Convert and pocket."  not see her.
"I believe -you," 'said Richard. "You,.          "         -
should have been a lawyer yourself."
' I preferred a quiet and honest life,"re-         CHAPTER XXVI.
plied Marmaduke, smiling.                          ABIGAIL CAST OUT.'
" Convert and pocket," repeated Richard.  WHEN they had passed, and with them the
" Convert, pocket, divide," added Duke, immediate danger, Sibylla thought of her
blandly. " Remember your friends, and your youthful messenger,, and returned to the
friends will forget you. Forget your friends, apartment from, which she had successfully
and your enemies will remember you."      dispatched her, letter. Looking  into the
The eye of the carbuncle winked wickedly avenue, she- discovered -her Mercury, sitting
at Richard. Richard felt that he had a mas- upon the opposite curbstone, waiting patient-
ter.                                      ly for notice. She.tapped upon. the window,
"I shall follow your advice," he said.' "I and he sprang aoss the intervening space in
wish the girl would get well. I can't under- a moment. Thdte was smiling intelligence
stand her illness. However, I wont complain, upon his countenance. Standing on tiptoe,
for it hastened 'the lunacy of Ursala. The and stretching upward as far as he could, lie
moment she is conscious she will call for offered a letter to Sibylla, who. reached it by'
Ursula, aridI shall be but too glad to gratify. virtue of a long arm. It was directed to her
her wishes. I shallthave at grim satisfaction in a hand that she presently recognized as
in the torture and disappointment of Lucre- Magnus Drake's, although without its usual
tia Fuller. I will look into the halt to see it clearness and firmness., She was giddy with
she is listening. She'.is a dreadful mouser I joy, and sat down quite weak and taint. The
I scarcely dare think inher presence, she boy went back to his former place. Sibylla,
pounces upon one's unuttered secrets with when she had rested a little, opened the mis-
such catlike quickness.?'   '             sive, and read the following answer :
Richard arose, opened the door, looked into  "DEAR SIBYLLA :-Mang things have happened since
the hixll; and returned to his seat, relieved.  I last paw you. I have been sick with a fever, con-
".Instead of a wedding-ring," quoth Mar- tractec by damp, foul air, and excitement. The crisis
Inadute, you willgie Lucretia Fuller a has passed, and I am rational, but weak. Fall readily
mauk,"yuwilgiv        urtaFle          into 'the pans of Richard, and go with tihe housekeep-
strait-jacket."                            er to the asylum. A watch is'set upon the house, and
"A strait-jacket will be good for her," the carriage willbe followed whenever and wherever
asserted Richard, "'and it will avenge the fate it goes. Have no fear about the consequences.
Faithful agents win be near you, and the downfall of
of Ursullaa     -  - - - -Richard is near. I will not, now answer your argu-
"It will be dramatical," said Duke. "It-is meats concerning the name of Norman Drew. It is
poetical justice. Keep an eye on Droolby  wisest to let that subject remain as it is, for the pres-
D                      eye              ent. 'Besides, I am too weak to enter into statements
riggs, and Bolter. knaves that'are bought had 'explanations.. You can see, by the crooked
once 'can be bought again. Rascals are al- lines, that my hand trembles. ,You pnay speak the
ways -on sale, and they go quicklyfor ready most cheering words to Ursula. Look upon your
cash and plenty of It"                      enemies as conqucreal, and. the victdrl cf justice as-
sured!. Have full faith and cornuslere- .- ,ur frm,
"ou might have included John Jerome trueand loving friend, .     i/e',Th bailaR?

:I

U"

a

f      ,
,b


Sibylla kissed this reclous' doeunient, aid 'She thought she saw Sibylla running eagerly
Waving her hatud to the boy, who' still'-'st into  the trap that was set for her, and felt -a
uponte ncurbstone, watching the Window, load suddenly lifted from her mind.a a
she hurried to her chamber  with light and  "I rejoice t6 hear you talk so hopefully,"
happy:foot~tseps.                       she answered. "Yes, we will go to Ursula.
Abigail Vaughn Was     yet. Wandering Your presence will help her, if there be any-
among her brandyfaneies. Sibylla tang thing curative in nature. We will start as
the hell, then"adjuting'lier pillows, threw  soon as you are able to go."
hcrsel&amp; upon her  couch with' eelings of inf-i-t"That wi11 be to-morrow, or even to-day.
White relief and fervent gratitude. 'All Was But to begin with, do what I have bidden
going well. The current of events wasw- you, and that will suffice."
ing smoothly.' The struggle of 'faith  and  'The housekeeper rang the bell, and waited
hope  seemed"nearly ended. She felt that 'she for it to be answered without 'uttering a
could fall into a peaceful sleep, so great was word ; but she looked straight at Sibylla.
her confidence in Magnus.       '       Uneasy thoughts and uncomfortable-sensa-
Lucretia Fuller came by and by.   She tions affected her. The confidence of Sibylla,
liked to answer that bell -,herself. There the firmness of her demeanor, the perfect
were reasons ;obvious why she should keep faith in herself and in her cause, had a strong
guard over Sibylla's- chamber. Seeing that influence upon Lucretia. She had not in
young lady lyngupon the bed, in -a becoming this struggle met that peculiar kind of
wrapper, with her pair neatly arranged, and strength. There was something in the power
everything about her 'person looking tid , of prophetic innocence difficult to battle with.
she was considerably surprised. -ibylla   A strange servant came, after a time, and
closed her eyes, and permitted her to look at came tardily. It was not so under the sway
her leisure.                            of Stephen Parkhurst; the servants came
"Who rang ?" asked Lucretia Fuller.   promptly and with mien respectful. 'When
"I rang,r 'answered Sibglla. " Have this I{servants govern  servants, things go not
drunken woman removed,'and bring me some smoothly. The servant who becomes master
nice'tea and toast."                   is apt to have a hangdog look ; as if he had
Miss Fuller .dropped into the first chair, no business to command.
and stared at the fair patient. It was evident Lucretia gave an order for tea and toast,
that a change had taken place. Sibylla had with an injunction to hurry.
passed from imcoherency to perfect conscious-  That woman" said Sibylla, looking at
ness. Sibylla pointed at Abigail Vaughn.  Abigail when the servant had gone.
"Take het' away!i I cannot hear it," 'added  "1 will deal with her myself," replied
Sibylla, with, firmness. V If you are not Lucretia.
shocked by such shamefdl conduct, under- "  Let me see you deal with her," added
stand that I am, and will not tolerate it." ibylla, watching the countenance of the
" I am shocked," replied Lucretia Fuller. housekeeper closely.
It is rot becoming' to - have such a person  The latter approached the nurse and shook
here. ,'She shall go away. You appear quite her gently., Abigail responded by a nasal
restored to yourself."                  explosion of unusual vehemence.  Sibyhla
e You shall soon learn, Miss Fuller, that I raised herself in bed, frowning a very rfe.
am," returned Sibylla, promptly.  " Obey Fuller shook Vaughn again, but shook her as
me as if I were the mistress of the house, and if she was afraid of giving offence. Sibylla
you Will -not regret it."               raised herself more, and put one skippered
The 'housekeeper ; flushed somewhat 'and foot upon the fiaor. Abigail turned a sue-
was startled.                           cession of mucilaginous wheels in her throat,'
" I observe," added Sibylla, "that you and seemed near death from internal drown-
think yourself to be mistress of the brown- ing. Sibyllafrownedniore, and both slipper-
stone house ; but that will not, can not be. ed feet found the-floor. She was beside Lu-
Misfortune will visit you, as it has visited 'cretia in a moment. She pushed her away
others-as it has visited ,me. You- have but with 'her transparent hand, with an unpre-
one thing to cling to;%'dd I am that.'  tentious dignity that was indescribable.
"I do not comprehend," 'said Lucretia   "You are afraid of this' woman," she said,
Fuller, turnlg pale. " I hope you are fully " I see fear in your manner. But I am not
restored, however."                     afraid."
' Do not doubt it.: I am restored, and  There was a silver ice-pitcher upon the
Ursula will be restored. I am going with table, half-filled with water. Sibylla turned
you to see her, and to bring her home. You out a gobletful, and dashed it into Abigails
had better have her room prepared for her face. She started ,up, ;gasped, shivered, .as
reception."                            the icy little rivulets found their way down
The housekeeper breathed more freely. 'herperson, tossed 'her arms, turned her fiead

SIBYLLA JOYS,
to the other side, made an uncommon coin- persoli float, to a madhouse, that's about the
placation of the' wheels, then relapsed into her last of thelrfloating."
sodden sleep.  ," Perhaps so;" returned Duke, reflectively.
" It does not work," muttered Sibylla. " My carbuncle turned pale last; night. I
"We will try what virtue there.is in stones." don't like to see it change color. How does
There was a bottle of spirits of ammonia it look to you, Richard ?"
upon the table, of great strength and pungen- "Like a.dead man's eye !" niutterod Park-
cy. A single snuffwould nearly unroof one's hurst.
head. Sibylla shook it, removed the ground-  "Like Stephen's eye," observed Duke, in
glass stopper, and clapped'itto Abigail's an undertone. "And that is why the devil
nose. T'he effect was iimmediate antd mark- isam the carbuncle."
ed. The nurse surged forward with one    "Bah !" exclaimed Richard. " What non-
grand snort. The wheels-stopped revolving, sense is;this ! One would think us children,
and Vaughn quivered like the corpus of a ga- scared by the goblin-tales of some old trot.
vanized frog. There was somethingmore in May you, and your carbuncle, and your
ammonia than Abigail had dreamed of. An Italian, be -"
act of sternutation was her first tribute to the " Kindly, kindly, Richard! This eccentric
ingenuity of Sibylla ; then she opened two eye ma wink at your hanging yet. It will
eyes, that were redder than ripe cranberries, be blue; then, perhaps. Blue and sulphur-
and about as expressive. She made -some ens."
frantic motions with her arms.           " Don't fret me !" retorted Richard. "I
" Arouse yourself," said Sibylla, "and have enough on my mind, without listening
leave the room."                       to your infernal prophecies.  wish you
Lucretia regarded the'young lady with iii- would burn that diabolical stone. Whenever
creased wonder.                        I have hearkened to your advice, and looked
"Mem ?" mumbled Abigail Vaughn, not at that carbuncle while you dealt out your
well knowing what the matter was.      sophistry, my judgment has been taken cap-
"Go out, and never come in again !" added tive, and I have, followed your proniptings,
Sibylla.                               Satan's Eye has already winked  ae to the
"In her tantrums agin !" muttered the foot of the gallows, and I want it to wink no
nurse.                                 more. Here are a hundred dollars ; take
"Push her out, Fuller!1 Have her put them, and give it me."
into a hack and trundled off, bag and bag- ' "Not for a thousand !" replied Marmaduke,
gage"                                  smiling. " By the way, the air is chilly and
Lucretia not stirring, Sibylla pushed her the room is damp. Order a brasier of char-
out herself, left her much astonished in the coal !"
hall, and closed the door upon her.      "For your own use, willingly," said Rich-
Presently, the tea and toast came up, and ard, scowling. " Why don't you be comfort-
Lucretia watched her while she ate and able, and let ,1e alone ?"
drank, with an expression worthy the atten-  " If I let you alone, your affairs would soon
tion of physiognomists. The sudden recov- drift away,,with you. But let things be hur-
ery of Sibylla was a mystery to the house- ried. The lawyer still troubles me ; for if he
keeper-while her firmness of character was turns up, you are turned out."
equally surprising.                      " The carriage is at the door," observed
Richard, rising and preparing to go. "I
must take another journey into the country.
CoAoToRnooV'epThis insane business is getting to be a bore.
TO DOCTOR R iOOKS.           Keep things straight, Marmadluke, and mind
The recovery of Sibylla was considered your cups. Stephen's liquors are good, but
remarkable. Richard was pleased with the use them sparingly. '.When I return, the
prospect of getting her away so soon, and of brown-stone house will be clear, and I shall
using her to such advantage in the disposal of l-e its master."
Lucretia Fuller. Duke Marmaduke saw her  "Dreadful deceiver1" quoth Duke, play-
several times previous to hpr departure for fully. " Where will Lucretia be? In ros-
the extremely nice residence of Doctor perity how soon, we throw away the ladders
Brooks, and informed Richard that he did by which weclimb to success. Artful Rich-
not like the girl's expression,        ard I Who knows but I may be your next
" That young woman," ,said he, "is going victim I"
to keep above the tide. She has made up her  -"I an acting, by your advice, as you well
mind not-to sink, and she'll float like.a cork, know. Ngw for a drama and Doctor Brooks.
Richard."                              Good-morning, Satan."
"Yes ;" answered the latter, with a shrug,  So Riehard left the house, and entered the
"shell float to Doctor. Brooks'. When a carriage with Sibylla Joy and Lucretia Ful-

'1
{

F
S'
4
I
K   Y
1
z;
ri
y r
1


78

SIBYLLA JOY.

ier. He  tried to be cheerful and even play- your fortunes," she added. " You nolonger
ful. He was very lover-like with the house- go about with downcast air and drooping
keeper He got possession oft her hand be- head. You have cast your old slough, and
hind the cushions, pressed'it, and looked at ndiw go about as a gentlemanforgetful of the
her admiringly.' Sibylla good-naturedly shut vagrant-schemer who used to appear at inter-
her eyes, an had curiousthoughts while the vals at Stephen's door."
farce went on. Shepictured to herself the  Richard heard this language with undis
disappointment to come, and believed that guised astonishment.
the wrath of Lucretia would be amusing. - If  ".Between cups and lips there are fatal
her lashes quivered and opened now and slips," continued Sibylla.  ..
then, it was to look out and see if the carriage  ' Don't talk, 'young woman !" said Rich-
were 'followed. But whether she could see ard ; " don't talk I It is best that your mind
any one or not, she knew that the 'carriage be kept quiet."
would be followed. So great was her conti--" "Keep yours quiet, if you can," retorted
dence in Magnus Drake, that she had not a Sibylla.. "Keep the ghost of Stephen quiet,
lingering doubt but that the carriage would if youcan.
be followed. In that faith she -rested in per-- - 'What have I to do with the ghost of
feet peace, and the motion of the vehicle was Stephen ?"- muttered Richard, in apetulant
a soothing lullaby to her nerves.       manner. -
Richard, with wonderful foresight, had had  "Much," answered Sibylla, ;assuming a
a hamper of wine placed in the carriage, and, mysterious manner.  ".It follows you; it
by and by, he drew a cork; and clinked looks over your shoulder ; it gesticulates
glasses - with Lucretia, while the carriage with its shadowy hands, and points to a
rolled easily onward. The wine set hisnerves brasier of charcoal."
more firmly ; and, warming Lucretia,-it made  Richard Parkhurst grew deadly pale.'
her more gracious than usual. Richard, sur- "She's wandering again," observed Lucre-
passing himself in hypocrisy, asked her to tia, lancing at Richard;.
namemn'earlyday for the eternal consolidation , "Ihave wandered 'much within the last
of two hearts. Miss Fuller drank a little more ten days," replied Sibylla. "I have walked
wine, then put her handkerchief to her eyes, among impalpabilities, and have been. lost
or, more - truthfully speaking, one of Ur- among fragments of disjointed thoughts ; but
sula's, which she had abstracted from her in all my walkings there has been a constant
drawer that morning.                    vision of crime."      ,
Richard, of course, was obliged to whisper  " Soothe her, if you can, Lucretia !" exclaim-
while the sick girl was asleep; but the =sick ed Richard ; " she annoys me dreadfully."
girl was conscious enough for both. The   " Be calm, dear; child '" admonished Lu-
villain, as he looked at her now and then, cretia. "Do not give place to fancies. Fan-
could not but be impressed with her quiet cies are but the flies of the imagination that
face and sweet expression. When a con- buzz about distempered brains. Brush them
sciousness of his sins came over him, when away, child '-brush them away!,' You are
he realized what he was and what he might troubling our worthy fiend."
have been, when he reflected upon time mis-  Sibylla smiled faintly.
spent and 'talent abused, when the terrible  "Our worthy friend has trouble enough,"
conviction crept over him that life had near- she responded, sarcastically. "In the long
ly lapsed and slipped away, and he had grown and restless dream which I have had, I have
viler instead of better, he confessed to his seen him walking, walking, like another
darkened soul that 'he would rather be that Cain. Once, I saw him in a dark compart-
g'irl than himself, and that it might perhaps meant that was very cheerless. The air was
be a privilege to kneel at her feet, and make chilly, and the room was damp, and lie 'kept
humble confession of all. But thathour had, ordering brasiers of charcoal, till he.was sur-
passed. :,Hitherto be had had sin without its rounded by a circle of glowing embers."
wages; -now lie was to have its payment in  Parkhurst stared at Sibylla with parted
silver and gold and good banknotes. Why lips and pallid cheeks. A dewy perspiration
should he, recede when the cupwas at his stood upon his forehead,  Lucretia Fuller
lips ? So, as.dll bad men do,'he mentally ran was, observing him.  Her keen eyes were
his course to reach the' en'd at last In reality, looking through the imperfections of his
Sibylla revived after a time, 'and began to moral armor, and shebelieved she had found
talk. She said :                        a new hold upon-his fears., he slid not re-
" You are getting along bravely, Richard gret this discovery, nor ; could she contem-
Parkhurst. All things prosper- under your plate -the calm =faceof Sib lla -and feel at
hands." -'.'ease. 'The conjunctive stars of the hour
"After it fashion," replied Richard.  ruled her spirits! gloonrilp. The beginning
"The death of 'my guardian'has changed of the end seemed near.' And so the ttavel-

'3

4
c

l
a
1
y
i
rl
h.
p
h(
ot
T
se
d
na

SIBYLLA JOY.70
ing-carriage rolled onward toward the nice  Lucretia advanced and pronounced the
establishment of Doctor Brooks.         name of Ursula, as she -had been bidden.
-                     While she was saying the name of Ursula,
CHAPTER XXVII. '              and peeringnto the corners of the cell with
THE HOUSEKEEPER ENTRAPPED.         the expectation of seeing her, Mrs. Brooks
Doctor Brooks received his visitors with shut the door upon her, locked it, and drew
bows and 'smiles. They were. ushered in the key. - The noise of doing this made Miss'
with obsequious alacrity.  Sibylla shivered Fuller turn, when she saw the woman's face
as she entered a portal devoted to such exe- at the grating, looking through.
crable uses.'- She begged to -see Ursula at  "What have you done?'' asked Lucretia.
once. The doctor said:                    "I have locked you in," said Mrs. Brooks.
" Of course,"' and requested the house-  "What for ?" Lucretia demanded.
keeper to go andprepare that unfortunate " To keep you from getting out," replied
young lady for an interview with her "inter- Mrs. Brooks, with composure. "Your food
esting young friend''. Miss Fuller was bland will be put in to you, through a slide in this
and willing, and followed the attendant gra- door, every day with great regularity. If
ciously. It being nine o'clock in the even- you are docile and quiet, you will be very
in , the attendant carried a light,'which she comfortable. In a niche at the right-hand
held high above her shoulder, to enable Lu- corner, you will find,- a bed, wich
cretia to make hers way without stumbling mustn't tear to piees; and you'll find
There were corners to turn in that house; chair in the room, which is screwed down.
and some of them were very sharp corners.  We screw 'em down to prevent 'em from
We must go with the housekeeper. It being broke. Be a. nice, good woman, and
were not fitting to lose sight of her on this your friend Richard will do all he can for
occasion.                               you, and perhaps sometime you'll get well,
Lucretia was lighted up stairs, and through and be the same as the rest of us."p
various turnings and narrow halls, till her Lucretia Fuller, discovering at that ,mo-
conductress reached a certain door.  * ment the diair that was screwed down, it
"This is not where I left her," said Miss luckily received her person, very dead and
Fuller.                                 helpless. Then l1er anger, like the rebound
"No," answered the woman; "we have of a steel spring, brought her back to' herself
changed her since."                     as suddenly.       -
She unlocked ,the door, and. held it open  "He has betrayed me!" she exelaimech
for Lucretia to go in. Lucretia went in with- " The infernal villain has played false "
out doubt or misgiving. The woman, who   Mrs. Brooks turned to go away.
was no other than Mrs. Broks, went quickly  '-Woman," screamed Lucretia, in a fury of
after her, taking the key from one side of the anger, "I denounce Richard, Parkhurst as a
ock, inserting it upon the other, and turn- murderer I He murdered Stephen Parkhurst,
ng it.        '                         his half-brother - and has broken up his
" What need ?" asked Lucretia, gonder- household through false accusations of insan-
ngly                                   ity ! Revenge I Revenge !"
"the dear girl is quite bad of late," quoth  " Be a good, gentle lamb I" advised Mrs.
Mrs. Brooks, "and night make a des operate Brooks, maternally. "Be a lamb, or we
ttempt- to escape. The poor thing flutters shall have to order you into a jacket'"
ike a bird in a cage. She'll break-her wings  '"A jacket for me !" gasped Lucretia, hys-
'et, I'm afraid."                     terically. "Barbarians! Monsters !"
"Against the bars ?" said Lucretia, looking  "We don't like to put'em into jackets, be-
ntelligently at Mrs. Brooks.           cause it's a trouble, and it takes three or four
" Against the bars," said Mrs; Brooks. of us, sometimes, to do it.  Mad people are
We've had to put her in one of the barest so vicious."
rooms. The barest rooms are those which.  "And I am mad, I suppose ?" panted Lu-
ave no 'furniture in them, and are fpr frantic cretia.
patients. They are the stoutest cells in the  F As a March hare."
ouse, too, and do not look out upon the  "Singular madness that affects an entire
court " '  household !" cried Lucretia, w
By this thste Mrs. Brooks had reached an- hands.                  ringing her
her door, - grated  one-half its length.  "When these kind of cases setin, there's
hrough ,the .grating a dim light could be no knowing where they'll stop," Mrs. Brooks
en.                                   observed'- " and what is sauce for the goose is
"Enter gently," advised Mrs. Brooks,."and sauce for the gander. Be very mild, and
o not- give her a sudden start. Call her don't damage the things. Pleasant dreamsto
tme softly, Madam. She is not dangerous, you. 'Be a shining light to all in the house.
it timid. Advance without fear-"      Good night, my dear."m              s

i

d

V


,?r
i,
;
v    i
i
,'
t     1
S     '
'  "

*                        JB4TTg4 JQY.
With these valeditcpryr words, Mrs54Brpoks sweetvoic gye  $ istrtd ae fl  e
went away as calmly as she Came, and tu- ment of the incs4ents ohat ni 'lit, the   6  -P
cretia heard her lock -the other door. . She ing of which had brought the announcement
heard no more for a long time; for she fell of Stephen Parklpurst's death  Ursula was
upon the floor in strong nervous convulsions, bewildered. At first; Sibylla's 'calm .logic
and remained there, unheeded and uicared startled more than it convinced; but, after a
for, eating, in solitude, silence, and darkness; little while, she fell to sobbing, and was very
the bitter bread of disappointed ambition. nervous. She.continued in this state till ten'
In the first lull of her nervous pain, she minutes aftermidnight; when something like
thought of Sibylla's warning, and murmured, hailuwas heard rattl1ng against the window.
despairingly : -.Ursula arose,-blushing.
"The girlwas right. Her mind was some-  "What is that ?" inquired Sib lla.
thing more than prophetic.  'The hopes   "Pebble-stones," answered Ursula, some-
of the wicked perish "'"' what ambiguously. ".He .is throwing them
..-..        -        against the panes, you know."
CHAPTER XXIX.             *    "Who .is throwing them   against the
CO OTLU5IQ.               panes ?".
Sibyl1a had some doubts about being per-  "Frothingham, to be sure," said Ursula.
mitted.to see Ursula ; but after the return of "But I have not'told you about Frothing-
hrs. Brooks, and some consultation with ham, have I? The nob est fellowI He has
Richard and the Doctor, she was presently cheered this miserable imprisonment, and
conducted to that young lady. The meeting now he has come to ake me away. There !
was quite affecting to the- feelings of e ch, Do you not hear a'la der being placed against
finding free expression at sight of each other. thewill'"
Mrs. Brooks quickly withdrew, not caring to  " Heaven'has saved you from escaping in
witness th r girlish ecstasy, under the pecu- that manner,",answered Sibylla. "We have
liar circumstances.                  , only to be patient, and trust in$he promise of
Sibylla had much to say, and after weeping Magnus Drake."
and smiling a becoming time, beg an her  "You have no doubt?".queried Ursula,
singular story. First, she wished to know if looking earnestly into Sibylla a eyes.
her nerves we're strong.                 "No doubt," responded, Sibylla, unfalter-
"Very strong," said Ursula, thinking of ingly.
the young man whom    she expected that  "And-that, "no.doubt" sank deeply into
night, with a ladder to climb into her win- the young girl's heart, and brought her a
dow, to release her. "I, too, have had ;ad- world of faith and confidence.
ventures,. which I shall tell you, by andby."  Some one was'at the window, then, tapping
" The world is full of such strange things?' lightly upon the panes.'
observed Sibylla. "I havecome to you full "Can you speak to him?" asked Sibylla.
of hope and cheer. We shall' be restored  She said " Yes', and went and spoke to
to our own, and our own will be restored to him.  ,.
us. But I cannot, dare not, tell you how  "Is At Mr. Frothingham ?"
much to hope, and what great things I    " It is, and my friend is below.  We have
expect."                               come to release you from this prison, and to
"My poor Sibyllal! I fear you are not yet conduct you to a place of safety."
yourself. Your mind is wandering upon the Ursula replied :
old, sick track."                        " Many, many thanksI My prospects have
"I kneW you would think so' Let-me see brightened.since you were last here.- I have
your, eyes ; they look calm and firm, dnd I heard from my' friends,, and all goes .well.
shall show you something."             My sister, Sibylla, is with me. ,They sent her
Sibylla drew a small silk purse from her for evil ; .but Providence willed it forgood.
pocket, took. from it a long, narrow .strip She brings assurance of safety, and inspires
of paper, and handed it to Ursula. It was the me with hopes so wild that they push me to
telegram which she had found in the box. the brink of that insanity of which I am
Ursula-read it, and said :             accused, It is better to be freed from this in-
"This is news to nie. I knew not that justice 'by the strong and 'crushing. hand
Norman Drew was dead."                 of the law, than by clandestine fight."
Sibylla remained silent, to give her a  "Do you feel so well. assured of this that
chance to follow her thoughts.         there is no cause for distrust "
"Nobody came," mused Ursula, going step  "Quite sure," interposed Sibylla, stepping
b step into the ; intricacies of the case. forward-
"where did you get this I"               "Hush !" whispered Frotgingham. ".Carlo
Sibylla too Ursulass hand, and resting her is growling."
weary head -upon her shoulder, in a low,  "Come down!I" said a voice from below.

f
E
4

11t

I b,

SIBYLLA JOY.                                  81
"Some men are forcing the gate. Faith, it is You've done business so, amicably together,
aLookig down, Hubert Fiothingham saw.  "On what charge " stammered Richard,
personsentering t e yard, and he was greatly "am I arrested ?"
them.          "garmerGoron among           For the murder of Stephen Parkhirst."
"hem. OIt s an accusation without foundation, and
OurAfriends !" cried tibylla, clapping her there is not a witness to testify against me !"
hands. "Among them there is, I 11 warrant 'exclaimed Richard, defiantly.
you, the man whom Richard Parkhurst calls  "I will call a witness," answered the officer,
iman rew.You will see,-now, if.I am not gravely. "I will call the ghost of Stephen
ririht "  aParkhiurst." Then, in ajloud voice, he, sum-
ra Gordon! Gordon !" saidFrothingham, moned the ghost of Stephen to appear, and in
raising his voice cautiously.            walked the ghost, pale enough for the best
"All right "answered Gordon, approach- ghost tiat ever was.
ing him.                                  Richard s natural cowardice rendered him
"Who are those with you '             ad easy dupe, and the real Stephen struck
Patting her ear to the window, Sibylla him with all the terror of a real ghost. With
heard himsay, in a low tone : ".New York a cry of horror, he shrank into a corner, and
detectives."                            turned his face from the accusing form.
"Ask.him if Noman Drew is with him,     "I accuse you, Richard," said Stephen, in
added Sibylla, in a tremulous voice.    a solemn voice, "of being guilty of the worst
"The young ladies wish to know if Nor- of crimes. I accuse you of conspiring against
man Drv is with these o Gsaid orothingham, my life. I accuse you of being an unnatur-
dtiverL  the request to Gordon.        al villain., I accuse you of perjury, and of
At tha moment, a middle-aged man, who the blackest ingratitude. I accuse you of all
had advanesc sto the foot of the ladder, ex- .the meannesses and vices that distort the
claimed: "He is!, threw up his -arms, stag- character of man. You are- beaten down
gered a few paces toward the house, and fell and crushed. I leave you, with the curse of
insensible to the ground.                Cain upon your vagabond head. I leave you
"I know 1in !-I know him !" gasped Ur- to the society of criminals, and to the fate of
sula, and knew no more till she revived felons. Good night, Richard ! Good night !"
slowly and painfully, two hours afterward,  He paused on the threshold as he went
in her father arms.                    backward from the room, and added, sepulch-
o describe that scene, would be a vain rally:
efort . For a time, the most intense feelings  "The air is chilly, and the room is damp.
Qf human nature were called into action. It Good-night, Richard. Good-night !"
was feared, by her friends, that her emotions  "Ai, what a night !" groaned Richard.
would prove too powerful for her delicate  Something seemed' to whisper in his ear.
strength abut-she came round, anon, and was  " The wages of sin is death."
able to enjoy happiness as great as it was un- On the Ibilowing morning, Richard, very
expected. sor a ulw days she was extremely haggard and hopeless,- in irons, and in the
thul, and slept but little, starting up wildly good company of Doctor Brooks and his
whenever se lostherself ir sleep. These wile, made a quick and safe journey, to New
nervous m'anifestatons finally subsided, but York, and lodged, the ensuing night, in the
not till they had created considerable excite- Tombs. He seat for Marmaduke to come and
inent in the mind of Stephen Parkhurst, wl4o see him, but that worthy gentleman, either
already regretted an experiment attended warned by the Devil's Eye, or his own pru-
wt so   uch pain and danger.            dence, had changed his quarters, and could
The detectives performed their duty faith- not be found.  Ho -nevef was found by
fully, and without delay. Richard Parkhurst Richard. The latter, after being in con-
was closeted with Doctor Brooks, when his finement a long -time, was sent to a luna-
aiention was arrested by a gentle knocking tic asylum, where, after moping and pin-
at te door. Opening it, a stranger stepped ing some months, he hanged himself with
in, and, bowing, wmned to know whom he his pocket-handkerchief, not being able to
Had the honor of addressing. Richard grew keep above the tide of circumstances so well
pale about the mouth, and Doctor Brooks as. his friend Marmaduke, who, when he
began to bluster. The stranger put his hand made his sly exodus from the brown-stone
upon Richard s shoulder, and said :      house, carried a bottle of old claret and a
1 am a detective eo lcer.- Richard Park- dozen  silver spoons with him, to enable him
hurst, you are my prisoner. 'Ihis is no to float better. It is to be supposed that the
Droolby nd -Jriggs affair.  I have been carbuncle looked pale on that occasion, and
watchinagyou some time. Doctor Brooks, winked ironically at its owner.
you and 1148. Brooks will bear him company.  So Richard found a house at last; a very
I

i

. r


I'

g---                      - .     IBYLL. JOY.
narrow house, that answers all ambition and ened stones and a few charred sticks are au'
serves for all tide. Doctor and Mrs. Brooks that remain to tell where the building stood.
went into long retirement at Sing S"g ; but  That eccentric dog, Carlo, adheredstrictly
never. sang well nor cheerfully after that. to the fortunes of his new master, and was a
The insanity of the Parkhurst family, by geat favorite with Ursula whenshebecame
sone means, did not agree with them. The Mrs. Frothingham. F-rank Southerly tell in
resuscitated Stephen-who had some difil- love with Sibylla, but that young lady was so
culty in proving his own identity-follpwed nestled about the heart of Stephen, that the
all parties concerned in the conspiracy with did not wish to lose her ; and said that the
relentless rigor.        .       .       fellow' must wait, as he might grow young
Bolter, resisting an arrest by a detective- himself, and take it into his head to ask her
officer, was shot ; while Droolby and Driggs, to become mistress of the brown-stone house.
for their many villainies, .received the awards After a while, it transpired that Sibylla
of justice by being sentenced to an unusually was the daughter of Magnus Drake, and that
longperiodof imprisonment. When Drool- the revengeful feelings of the latter toward
by was arrested, a large- sum of money was Richard had so ing to do with the girl's
found upon his 'erson, which he had received mother.  But that was a subject never
from Ste phen. Parkhurst, as the price of his referred to. Magnus was very fond of her,
delivery from the slums of the Old Brewery, and all his property will fall to her, eventu-
and which was returned to him.           ally-.
Lucretia Fuller, after being kept a while  John Jerome was caught setting fires, and
in Doctor Brooks' establishment, to see how got his deserts at last.
she liked it, was set at liberty, much subdued  Stephen Parkhurst still lives in the corner-
and humbled by her experience. That famous house, widely known by his charities, much
institution for the reception and cure of ab- respected as a citizen, happy in his domestic
normal persons was shortly after visited by relations, and not disposed to try dangerous
the indignant people of that neighborhood, experiments.
and reduced to a heap of ruins. Some black-            [TE 15"D]

1

r

BRADY'S CELEBRATED

UUWa(11, y sm      ere    nantuc et
The White 'Wizard ; Or the Prophet h1oals and is adopted by a hermit who names him
of the Seminoles. A tale of strange Mystery in  Edward Sea Waif, because he is a waif of the
the South and North.. By Ned Buntline. Six     sea. At the time be is found he floated ashore
full page engravings from designs by Darley. The  on an old sea.chest, wherein were a number of ar-
reader's attention Is called back a period of near- tices with crests upon them, which finally leads
ly forty years ago' when Spanish pirates and  to his identification as Lord Francis Egerton. Af
American slavers infested our Southern coasts ; terbeing released and exchanged he assumes his
when New York Merchants, some of whom now position as a peer of the realm,comes back to the
wallow in their gilded mansions in our fashionable  land of freedom where he marries Kate, tae
streets, were engaged in fitting out vessels to  daughter of old Cingle and returns to England
catch " black-birds," as well as "green ones."  with her. All the characters in this beautiful sto-
The White Wizard is aeCaucasian, who is leaving  ry have happy lives  dit finally winds up by
civilized society with his young wife and darling  everybody bei g plea d and satisfied. Whoever
ehiild of two years. They are overtaken by a pi-  'dhis story will ,st assuredly have their ful
rate vessel, which pour shot and canaster at the  money a worth. Pric................$0 25
small yacht irpon which is the White Wizard. A Man-.of-Wars-M&amp;n's Grudge. By Ned
shell falls upon  the wife and she is skilled.  Buntline. A romance of the Revolution. The
Through the aid of some kind fishermen hle ran  ebase-the fight-the baffled suitor--ai alderman
ages to escape with his little yacht up one of the of the olden time--the tory-love and duty-s
small rivers oathe coast of Florida, where he falls  tress and servant-hoquet.-tete-a-tete-enemy in
in with a head of Seminoles. After consultatoi  sight-Cora Bedford-crime and misery-fate of
he is accepted by them as their  medicine man' w-
and is named Arpiaka the "White Medicine."    wsu rprie-cruise-love's stratagem---spy-
They dig a grave for his murdered wife beneath a  night scene in Philadelphia.-fiend in huitat
asape--welcome visitor-abduction-strange ins
tall magnolia. He carved upon the tree, as he  terview women's kindness -- disclosure - ca-
sighed " Lost, lost, forever" ofie word-" Iown."  triw-wmnaknns           icoue-cp
hemorLin, s haiever,"whichwasra-glossym.ture-parole.of honor-a visit-two villains-so-
la the morning, hl hair, which was a glossy  vial dinner.-storm at sea-fight--foiled and kill;
brown, the night before, had been changed to a  ed-five beautiful engravings by barley.
snowy whiI                                                                         $02al
"The mturd~es of my wife, seek my blord,        Price ..........................$0 25
they would rob me of my child t" said Arpiaka.  Stella  Delorme ;   or   the  Camanche';
" They had better put their hand in the nest o  Dream. By Ned Buntline. A wild and fanciful
the hooded Cobra than seek my white brother  story of savage life. Illustrated by ea full page'
among de Seminoles1" pried Chikika. ' " We    engravings.in Darley's best style. The author of
will go-half way to meet them". The child Ona  this Indian tale has been exceedingly prolific in
is stolen by one of the fishermen who turns trait- his description of savage life as it is in our Was-
er, and taken to Havana to Senor Ribera, who is  tern Wilds.  This -'one of the very interesting
authorized to pay ten thousand dollars for it. Ri-  stories that Buntlinei6 well knows how to weave,
ber employs an assassi to kill the fisherman af-  that when once the reader begins to scan its pa-
ter he departs from Ribera's house, and take half  ges-he cannot leave it untilhe finishes its reading
the gold for his trouble and return the balance to  --for every page a a new scese. Priest. $0 25
SO'spies of the above books sent te ny .address in the United States, free of postage.
Bead Cash osdess to Prederie A. 3rady, Pabhlheu ao. SB Ann  treet. New-York.
M

FRED.ERIC A. BRADY'S CAVTALOGUE.

t
'                       r
,'ul
i
Y
{
^                          f
i5
A'.
.,
=Y
'
f'     ,,
.  '   i
q '4_
5. _S
i'    is
ry
.,§
.   L,

" MERoURY) asrIEars.
Ribera. "He waited for-se return of the atlas-
sin. He had not long to wait. In a very few
minutes that individual came in and emptied out
the gold upon the table which Pedro, the fisher
man, had carried away, as well as otl er valuables.
found upon the murdered scamp,'who had deser
edly.met death just when he has consummated his
villainy and received his reward." There are
hundreds of very' beautiful. scenes and historici
incidents in this book that only such a writer as
Buntline could so elegantly portray. Prce $0 25
Sea Waif ; or the Terror of the Coast,
By Ned Buntline. Embellished with ten full page
illustrations by Darley. This interesting story
opens at the commencement of our American
Revolution.with S8ea Waif being engaged, by old
Phiness Cringle, as the Captain of the Tyranni
tide, a privateer. In his first adventure he sinks
a British Sloop of War, which is escorting some
half a dozen transports, and captures them alland
brings them into port, by which Cringle gets over,
a hundred thousand dollars prize money. See
Waif makes the Tyrannicide the terror, of the
Britishers and after many adventures is taken a
prisoner. Sea Waif has been picked up when
quite a child. by some fishermen off Nantcket

S

.aul Sabberday; or the Idiot Spy.          A
tale of the men and deeds of '76.- By Ned Bunt-
line. -Illustrated with several full-page engravings
by Darley. The attention of the reader is led to
the days of the American Revolution, when deeds
of great valor and heroism were enacted. Saul
pretends to be an idiot, and by that means gains
assess to the enemy's camps and reports their dot
ing to American commanders. Saul renders much
service in those trying times, and was selected to
carry intelligence to Gen. Washington ; counting
thehorse of.the lamented Ethan Allen, he gal-
loped to White Plains to the camp where Wash-
ington was giving orders to his Aids. - Saul rush-
ed into the presence, and seeing the Commander
in-chief, shouted, "you are a man like other
folks I"  The ohief hastily 'opened the dispatch
and a glad smile illumined his countenance. Saul
is then employed on perilous services which he
faithfully executes to the perfect satisfaction o
Washington, who rewards him. Saul finally mar
ties Lely the untutored child of Emathla, the
dread Chief of the Seminoles, but now the fully
developed and educated woman of civilized life.
Washington I. present at the wedding and thanks
Saul in the name of a Free Country. Price $0 25


4                   1REDEWIC A. BRATY'S CATALOGUEK.
BRADY7S CELEBRATED "MERCURY'5 STORIES.
Luona Prescott; or the Curse Fulfilled. Morgan; or the Knight of the Mack Flag
A  tale of the american Revolution. By Ned   A. strange story, of by-gone times. By Ned Bune
luntline. We will give a short synopsis of its  line.' Illustrated: by Darley with ten full size ea,
contents, viz:-curse of the dying and the missi:n  gravings. The author carries the reader to the
of the living-a history of' wrong and desolation, days of the " Merry Monarch," CharlesL II, and
cry for vengeance. Military drill. and funeral.  faithfully pictures some of the persecutions of the
We will-pulpit versus pills. A picture-myste-  Hebrews at that ,lime. ..Morgan the hero of the
ry. Rum and recruiting. Ethan Allen and the   plot is a young Welsh nobleman deeply in love
Green' Mountain Boy. Assault on Quebec--Mont-  with Miriam, a young and beautiful Jewess, the
gomery killed. Battle on the lbke. At )me.     daughter of Solomon, - surnamed "Solomon the
Arnold In action. Hot and cold blood. 'omus   Jew." I The, attention pf the reader is called to
Heights. Arnold in Philadelphia. 'Arnold's first  the following extract to show the style of the ats
false step and leads-where ?  Washington and  thor in the exciting tale :-
the reprimand. Favor asked and granted.' Ar-    "Thou art of thosewho believe t&amp;at the glories
nold's treason. Andre's capture. The traitor's  of the Holy City will be yet revived ?"
escape. The warning of Luona. Washington        "It is a part of our creed. Were it not for
discovers the treason. Arnold awakens to misery.  that hope the doom of the Hebrew were dark, in-
Luona at home. Terrible concinsion. Seven il.  deed ! Persecuted by all men-reviled and ha-
lustrations by Darley. Price.............$0 25  ted-they know little of joy on earth'"  ,
*"All men do not hate thy race I Some. pity
Our Mess; or the Pirate Hunters of the          more than they hate."
Gulf. A tale of Nava. heroism and wild adven-   "Pity !"
ture in the Tropics, by Ned Buntline. Illustrated  The jet-black eyes of the Jewess flashed like
by five engravings by Darley. This is one of fire as she echoed this word.
Buntlines's Sea Romances, for which he is so emi-  btPity!" shecried. " Give us hate and score,
proverbial, and into which he casts so   butnot so base a thing as pity . Pity the hound
gently proverbit, anin        es       much   which howls when you scourge him-pity the
exciting interest. This story ias unsurpassed in  slave which kisses the hand that smites him; but
perous adventure and Nautical romance b any ity us not, for we yet are proud amid all suffer-
other dthor. Prie......    "....... 0 25 gand all persecution."
Jnglish Tom; or the Smuggler's Se'cret.          There are many exciting and interesting scenes
in this book that will chain the attention of the
A tale of Ship and Shore. By Ned Buntline. U-  reade to Its very last word.- Price. 0 25
lustrated with six engravings by Darley. The  r
reader is-taken to a New  England villageand Death LMtystery; a Crimson Tale of life
finds Mr. Drummond on the lookout for the 'Scud'  in New York. By Ned Buntline. Eight elegant en-
a vessel commanded by Frank Hewlet, a most un-
mitigated rascal. Hewlett has a wife in New York  gravilugs by Derbey. This is perhaps one of the
circumvents the' ruin of hetsey Hunthe daugh   most interesting tales ever penned by Buntline. A
ciruof   t '     woman is the leader of a band of murderers and
ter of the tavern keeper o the village, and also  cut-purses ; whom she visits in various disguises,
,n v t. a rummond.'r so that her own band fail to recognize her., 'She
Betsey is induced to. come o New York, where  visits the gambling hells of New York ; breaks a
the ceremony of a mock -t rrmge is performed.  nmeof the Faro Banks, iniveigles her betrayer
She is then left to her owvn resources aird after be-  numberot.Fro Bakivglshrbtye
and causes his ruin. She exhibits the most re-
ing looked up in a brothel in Mercer street, makes ,lentless hate, and'proves that a neglected woisn
her escapeand through collusion with Miss Drum-  isthe most to be dreaded of all characters.' She
iond she baes amid axposes Hewlet to his     saves many of her sex from destruction; and final.
shame. Old Drummond has been ,an English      ly winds up by causing those who had persecuted
smuggler, and the facts being kiawn to Hewlet her formerly. to moot at her house, which is ax
he tries to take advantage of the facts to that  - elaborate establishment in one of our best loali-'
garagemeat of Drummond, ,and is finallyt x iled  ties, and poisoning there with some refreshments,
in all his attempts: Hewlet's conduct exposed h at a ball which she gives for their amusement.
is convicted of Bigamy and serves the stat ini  Previous to their deaths she informs them who she
time capacity of a convict. -Rosali Diummond is is, how they spurned her with their persecutions,
proven to be the legitimate heiress toan earldom and she now condemns them to condign punish-
in England and only the adopted daughter of   mont.  Price....................        h0 25
Drummond. The secret of Drummond the smug-
gler, is that he is supposed to have murdered the
.Earl Delorme, (the father of Rosalie) when he ,liare Henderson;       or the Se.et re-
had in fact only wounded him. Delorme comes   veiled. By Ned Buntline. This work, contains
to America and the real son' of Drummond mar-  a number of illustrations by Darley, and, is the
rice Rosalie and becomes thereby the heir to the  antecedent of the Death Mystery. Here are set
earl's estate and title. The publisher can scarcely  forth all the machinationa of the characters spo-
give an outline of these intereaing tales in thisIp
little catalogue, but feels assud that the readers  ken of in the Death Mystery. To have a corm-
of these books will be amply paidd for both time  plete estimation of the Death Mystery with all its
and expense-in their reading. 'Price .... $0 25" exciting incidents the reader must have a copy el
(and the book mailed free of postage.)   i Hilliare Henderson. Price.............."$
W' Copies of the above books sent to any-part of the United States, free ofpostage,
eend Qasir orders to Fr'ederio A. Brady, Publisher, .No. 22 Ann. Street, New-Yark.

FREDEBIC A. BRADY'S CATALOGUE.
BRADY!S CELEBRATED " MERBURY" STORIES.
4rossbeak , Mansion:          A  ifystery of    forests of our almost boundless Co
New York, by Ned Buntline. Illustrated with    elegantly delineated in this story, thatI
eight full page engravings by Darley: The au-  a faint outline of these tales would ap
thor and the designer of the illustrations have  work of supererogation, yet we can
here produced a most interesting and readable  from telling just a little to give- the.g
book of ninety closely printed pages. This Gross-  er n idea that he is paying the triflin
beak is a retired captain and ship owner, residing twenty-five cents for something intrins
in Bleecker street, some twenty years ago-Gross-  ten times the amount in pleasure to l
beak is bne of the old-fasnioned ,jolly-sort of Sea-  to others when he is sated  The first
dogs, who is now enjoying life in a pleasant, ra-  by a trapper discovering that some rasc
. ional and charitable manner. Old Levi Martin  pilfering from his stock of furs, which]
is a a~na-lint merchant and Ship-owner in South  are safely stowed in a cul-de-sac in the
street. Young Martin,- his son is introduced in  He sets to watch in the night but is un
the send chapter. He is delineated as one of   cover the thief. While he is on the w
these free and open hearted sailors, who is full of pilferers, he discovers five men approa
affection for his profession, as well as the weaker  with a burden from  which afterward
but fairer sex. Old Martin gets married for the arise tire form of a lovely young girl.
second time, during the absence of hision on a  tie her up in the covering, and with r
voyage to the East Indies. This Mrs. Martin, as  ed to the bundle cast it into a river.I
the sequel proves is aperfect she-rascal, who with  springs into the stream, and being a h
her mother, has inveigled old Martin; in the hopes mer succeeds in bringing up the bod
of either killing him themselves or driving him  he applies friction and stimulants andr
to suicide, that they nray enjoy his property after- to life again. She stretches out lier ar
- wards. Young Martin upon his return from hit  ing mercy, which the trapper answers
long voyage, during which, at Dalcutta, he was  lowing strain:
made the Master by the American Consul, asks      You're safe, little woman--you're
his father where%is sister is'; to which the father wretches have gone,,.and you are with a
cannot reply, inasmuch as the machinations of the  to die for you! No more need of
wife and the mother-in-law, have driven her from - mercy, gal; no more clasping of' ti
her parental home. The daughter, however, has  hands in despair, no more turning' of th
married the object of her choice, her husband  to heaven !"
dies and leaves her the mother of twins, which   'The girl was assured-she felt,
she causes to be sent to Mr. Grossbeak, without  that she was indeed safe, and seizin
telling him whose they are, except that the twins browned hand, kissed it and dropped
are boru in honest wedlock. Grossbeak receives  it.
, them, and with his daughter, a very interesting  There are very many touching. incid
and beautiful young lady rears them.  Grossbeak  work, of trapper habits and adventure
has two ships left, one of which he places under  scenes and beautiful turns, all of which
the command of young Edgar Martin, who makes   terest every reader. Price .........
a great deal'of money with her, and he finally
marries Lizzie- Grossbeak. The sister of Edgar  e Ratlesnake j or the Reb
becomes a companion to a lady who purposes ma-  teer. A tale of the present day ; by
king a tour through Europe. On the European   line. Handsomely illustrated with sit
travels they meet with many thrilling adventures ;  engravings by designs by Darley. Th
are taken captives by Italian Banditti. The lead- story opens by the introduction of a
er of the brigands became acquainted. with the  of Our Navy, having intimate relatic
lady at a large soiree'in Paris, and he falls'despe-  highly respectable family in Boston, a
rately in love with her. He treats her well aa a chester. Ashton is the accepted, late
captive, she is attended by the Chief's sisters, and  band of Fluta Winshester, who is en
receives the treatment due a lady. The brigand  to the American Union, while Ashton
is afterwards surrounded by troops and he is slain .Ashton resigns his commission ia the
and she thereby escapes from him. Finally the  succeeds in obtaining the    and o
whole family meet in New  York,.and everybody  brig from Ichabod Snaggs,  other ses
is made happy by the denouement. This is one   This Snaggs managed to get from J
of Buntlines' happiest tales, and will well repay a  Letter of Marqus, and with that author
perusal. The publisher takes much pleasure in  sails the brig from Boston ; endeavor
eseomimending this series of books to the general abduct Flute Winchester on, board. I
reader, under the full conviction that they will give  ;States Marshal pursues the brig but fai
general satisfaction. Price---..........$025 her. She proceeds to sea and meets m
tures. The cnaracter of Doctor Umb
Pathaway; 'or the Mountain, Outlaw.. A           surgeon, is most graphically described
tale of the Northern Trapping Grounds ; by Dr. J. versatile manner. The reader will find
H. Robinson. Beautifully illustrated with eight  full of exciting adventures and enough
ful-page engravings. - The reader is in this high- interest to hold hitn "spell-bound" t
ly interesting story given an excellent idea of  end" is reached. This story is pleasing
our American Trappers. Some of them are white  ing and highly entertaining, leaving a
men and others of the Indian stamp. The thrill-  satiog on the mind. hallucinating in its.
mg and exciting adventures of our heroes of the  Get a copy, the Price is only .......
 Cpie* ofthe above books sent to any address in the United States, free of postage.
Send Cash erder. to Frederie A. Brady, Pubil her, No. 21t Ann Stenet, New-York.

A
untry is s
to give eves
pear to be a
nnot refrair
general reader
g arpount of
ically worth
himself and
scene opens
cal has been
he supposes
wilderness
able to dis-
atch fordse
oh a stream
is seen to
These men
ocks fasten-
The trapper
ardy swim-
y, to which
restores bet
ms, 'implor
s in the fol-
safe. The
man ready
asking frr
hem  while
at pale fat,
she knew,
g the sun.-
tears upoe
eats iii this
Graphic.
h must int-
...$0 25

el Priva
Ned Bunt
x full page
is beautiful
Lieutenant
ons with a
amed Win-
ended hus-
tirely loyal
is a rebel.
Navy and
f a clipper
eek Scamp.
oeff Davis a
ity, Ashton
ing first to
Tho United
is to catch
any adven-
illicus. the
d in Nse's
d this book
h scenes of
until " the
g, interest-
direct seg-
*Character.
....$*0 96

L

V _
}
i
t"
p

'

,
c
.
s
": ,
.  '
r$Y
i
i+
t
4
- }
6 r
,A
R
'k
R
.
'
S   j   ,3              J
l
_  -^y
'"  "w.. ^.9
a. ._'a it7

V

i'   ;
'                                      r
1                                    4
I .
l         .                                '
J
t
'                                   ,    ~  i
I                               ,     1      i
,,;t
{   .     S
r      f
(    r   (  .
.Y
I                                          .a
i                                   ' ' r
'.S.
   r  c."
}   s     ,r
!        ,
,C ,
r
r       yid:
r w
a."  f

f

-
t
-


6-

FREDERIO A. BRADY'S CATALOGt. -

BRADY'S CELEBRATED
Ella Adams; or the oion of Fire. A
tale of the Charleston en ,ingration. By Ned
Buntline. Illustrated with ix beautiful engrav-
ings from designs by Darley. The author as well
as the designer of the illutrations are so well
kiiown to the general read r that the publisher
need make no comment on their productions, and
therefore simply announces the facts. Miss Ad-
ams is a New agland school teacher in South
Carolina in the pursuit of'her profession. A par-
sy of the so-called regulators have a chivalric an-
tipathy'to New Englanders and after persecuting
her in all the manifold ways that such claraters
-do, causes her to leave thatJfart of the country ;
previous to which they tie ket to a tree and whip
er on her naked back. Wits escapes through the
agency of a negro and goes to Charleston where
she is hidden by a Spanish Quadroon na ned San-
she.. Sanches has suffered a great deal by per-
secution and has a band who finally set five to the
city. Ella Adams escapes from the city through
She agency of her lover, who comes there through
the blockade in disguise. This is one of Bunt-
line's highly \wrought stories, that will pay the
time spent in its perusal. Price.      0 25

" MERCURY" STORIES.
and glittering steel to close up a wall in which Is
placed a live man in a state of sbmnolence. The
unfortunate victim becomes partially conscious of
'what is goig 'on and in his agony makes a mystie
sign of d  ress, which Jean Louis understanding,
drops, inside of the tomb, a-large jack-knife ; 'by
which means the intended victim finally escapes.
About a year after the above event, the same
would-be assassins endeavored tQ make away with
Catholina, the daughter of the man 'supposed to
be entombed, by administering poison to hoa.
They call in Dr. Merigny, who instantly makes the
discovery of the poisoning. The Dr. directs s
be left alone with the patient, and after explaining
toter the-state she is in, gets her eonfideno. He
stains her face and arms to resemble yellow fsver
and gives, her a powerful\ dose that causes her to.
appear as dead. .The same persons attempt to as
sassinate him on his way home. le escapes, and
with Jean Louis gets the body of Oatholina and
restores her to life. There are a large number of
very interesting scenes in this work; among which
may be noticed that of the son becoming acquain-
ted with the fact of the supposed murders of his
cousin, thabeautiful Catholina;: her father ; -Dr.
Maringy;- the confederate in all these erimes, as

Millrose ; or the Cotton Planter's Daugh-        well as many others having been eemmitted by
ter. A tale of South Carolina. By. Dr. J. H.   his parents. We would like to give a larger out-
Robinson. Bi'strated by eight full-page designs  line of this very pleasant book, but chose hither
from Darley. This story is an episode of the pros-  te make the reservation of somb for the reader.
en. civil war, which is distracting our once happy  .  The pu-ice is only-......-----.-..$0 25
and peaceful country. The scenes, as the title in-
dicates,' laid ini that nest where first washatch- Elfrida: The Red Rovers Daughter.    A
ed the germ  of rebellion. It recounts many ty-  new mystery of New York. By Ned Buntline.
mannies practised by the demons of discord upon  Illustrated by.ten elegant engravings by Darley.
those who chanced to differ from them in opinion  This story is one of those " Tales of Mystery d
as to the correctness of their proceedings, While New York," in which Buntline far excels all come
this work does not enter into the discussion of this peers. - It is written in a bold and vigorous man-
political question, 'it yet describes the many hard-  ner, and the reader will be enchanted to the cad,
ships that are and have been endured by the Law  and then be filled with wonder at the author's' ves'
,and order party. The heroine of our tale is the  satility in his depictions of art tal living chares-
orphan - daughter and heiress of a large cotton  tars. To read this book is to b highly pleased.
planter, now under the guardianship of her uncle,  Price-.....    .-'................$0' 25
a perfect tyrant. She is locked up in a chamber
at the 'top of the mansion, and is rescued by'an Mountain Max; or Nick Whiffles on the
overseer who pretends to whip. Niggero and be' - border. A tale of the Bushwackers.in Missouri.-
with his employer in all his nefarious purposes and  By Dr.'J. H. Robinson. Seven handsome engra'
deeds, yet succeeds in rescuing the orphan from  vings from  designs by Darley. In this work we
the clutches of, her guardian through the instru-  have the adventures of.Nick Whiffles in Missouri.
mentality of a yankee carpenter and an old slave  Dr. Robinson has made these border Bushwackers
who is devoted to her interests. All the various  quite famous, as every reader of these stories must
scenes and inciden  re beautifully described in  admit. Those who have not read this book have
the-Doctor's peculi  versatile and interesting  Indeed missed a most delightful and interesting on-
style. Failing to have-and read this interesting  tertainment. Don't fail to get a copy at onceand
story, would, be an irreparable loss to any reader  read'it attentively. Price ............$025
who desires to be classed as such. Price..$0 25     .o
Thayendanagea the Soourge ; or the
Catholina ; or the Niche in the Wall. A          War Bagle of the Mohawks. A tale of Mystery,
Tale of Louisiana. By Dr. J. H. Robinson. Il. Ruthiand Wrong. By Ned Buntline. Several
lustrated with ten full-page engravings from de-  beautiful full page illustrations by Darley. This
signs by Darley. The reader is introduced, in the  is another one of Buntline's tales of the " poor
fret scene to Jean Louis, a bricklayer, who is very - indian." It is exceedingly delightful to travel
poor, and as usul, has a large family. He is  through this beautiful story, with such a deserip-
called-out of his house at midnlight by two men in  tive writer, and to follow  the hero of the tale
masks, who seine him   and place a hoodwink    through all his manly bearings. The stoicism of
about his eyes, force him inte a carnage and.af-  Thayendanegea leaves a pleastejt thrill on the mind
ter making many turns stop and lead him to a   of the reader long afer be has concluded its rea'-
,ault, where he is compelled by means of pistols  ing. Price...................-......  $0 25
9   Copies of the above books seat to any address in the United States,,free of postage.
8end Cash ordss ta Frederi A. Brady, Publisher, Ne. 22 Ana itreat, New-Yekk.

r

Scotto the Boaut ;       or the Union Ran-      . This Giles Hilton b.me.see possessed o a ,ue
gene. A tale of the Great Rebellion.. By Dr. J.  valuable diamond which he 'has given to Mr. Mee
H. Robinson. Handsomely illustrated with 9ight  the dealer in precious stones, to sell for him, and
beautiful engravings from designs by Darley. This  takes an advance of ten thousand pounds upon it
neat and chaste story gives - a number of vivid  While- the diamond is in the possession of the jew
scenes in the civil war of the United States, un- eler it is stolen and a false stone put in its place,
der the administration of President Abraham Lin-  which is only discovered when Giles culls for more
ooln. This Scotto is a kind of Spy for the fede-. money. He is arrested -for changing the stons
ral'forces under that brave ma  Geo. B. McClel-  and trying to defraud the jeweler. He is fansle
Ian ; and gives much valuable information in refer- acquitted of the charge by the confession of the
snee to the position of the troops in oppositon.  actual thief and he Is restored to favor. This book
He passes several times through the con'federate  abounds in interesting scenes and is recommended
army, and while making observations for" home  with much pleasure to the reader. Price.. $0 26
use,"' meets with many pleasant and. some very un- Patriot Cruiser - A  Stor  of the Amer-
pleasant adventures.  cotto is taken prisoner by     t     i        .o          hA
some of the Black Horse Cavalry and when asked  can Revolhtion. By Sylvanus Cobb, Jr. Illustra-
by Beauregard to take the oath of allegiance -so  tad with design. by Darley. This story is printed
the Confederacy, replies in following language:  trom good large type and is therefore easily to be
" If all the trees in yonder run was men, and  read. 'The opening scenes are during' the dask
all the branches and leaves on 'em was bagonets,  days of the American Revolution, and commenpe
and all the grass growin' round 'em was dead-shot  in the Year 1775. While a British Naval forte
rifles, and if all the sun-beams let down from  was in the harbor of Massachusetts an army was
heaven was 'rebel halters, I swear to ye that I.  quartered in the good city of Boston.  The trou
wenld'nt swear allegiance so your one-horse con-  ble aganst ,English tyranny was than brewing, and
sara! You wince, do ye I Prehaps you ain't in  little could be said by either Whig or Tory to each
the natur' 'o things, dead to condemnation and re-  other that was not term  m reenacing and injlam
morse. Think of what you've lost! You've lost  able.
she Revolution; 'you've lost your history; you've  " Either the English King must withdraw his
lost the OLwpens; and the memory of the Swamp  troops and concede to the reasonable demands of
Fox, and the Santee !"                        the colonies, or else---
There are very many sceh beautifully and home- .  " What '" asked the stranges, as Vincent Gray
tbust in this work, which the author presents to  hesitated.
the readers. Frie  -     ...        $0 26      " Else the colenises will make their own bar-
Nightshade - or the Maaked Robber of            gain, even at the point of the bayonet I"  This
Beanslow Heat?. A Romanceof the Road. By       was said in a low, firm tone, which told what the
'Dr. J. 'H. Robinson. 'This book introduces the  speaker meant ; and that it was-the sentiment of
the   others besides, himself.
readerto many scenes in the life of an English  Captain Vincent Gray with a small sloop-rigged
Highwaymand i the times when the country was  fisherman's boat captures an English brigantine,
not grldironed over with railroads "and traveling  and with that vessel becomes the " Patriot Cmli.
after Steam-horses prevalent. 'As the weary way-  ar"  There is much iterestin  adventrit in the
fsrer travels homeward he is halted on the .road  gr.   Theat bgaetin     adventhat with
by "your money or .your life !"  But that is' in the  cruising of that brigantine under Gray that will
past. The -interest of this story consist. in des-  pay the reader for its perusal. Price.....$0 26
cribing so beautifully very many incidents of dar. The Sword Maker of the Santee; or
lag as exercised by the bold and' bad men of for-
mer times  This story is illustrated by nine beau-  ,Hirl, the Hunchback. By Dr. J. H. Robinsoa.
tiful engravings' from designs by Derbey and it Eight full-pageingravings from designs by Darley.
-enravis    f0 25                           This tale opens in South Carolina in the days of
iee       T--the American Revolution.. The early scenes opee
Blanche; or the Lost Diamond.         A Tale-   with arrest of an American who for British gold
of the Lights-and Shades of London. By Septi-  became a tory spy. He is in prison, condemned
mus R. Urban. Beautifully illustrated with ele-  to die the death of a spy, when he is visited by a
gant designs by Darley.. The opening scene is in  loyal young lady to whom he haid been engaged
the Weaver's'  ome.          .    -            tobe married, but who, while she pities his un.
"Husband    'le--dear Giles. Oh, say a word  fortunate position, despises him for the part he
to me-to the little ones.  God sees us yet,'dear  has takon--hat of a Spy on his own countrymen.
Giles, and will send us help.  I am  not hungry  General Marion is here presented to the reader.
-oh, no, no! and I don't think Mary and Luke   rhis Hirlis a loyal man and' makes swords of a
are vry hungry, dear Giles. They will soon sleep.  superior quality for the Americans. He is hump.
I will.go out-and see if-' if I can borrow-"  backed and deaf, and is almost shot for failing, to
"Mush, Emma, hush-no ! no !It is not bor- , give the countersign to the sentinel when demand-
row. It is beg-beg. Ylu mean beg.''                There are very many scenes of-deep and ab-
Here apparently is a weaver and his poor fami-  sorbing interest in this work that will repay the
ly in a state of-starvation. This is one of the  reader for the outlay of money and time required
shade pictures. Now for the light one.       ' in their perusal. Price-.-................0.25
W Coes of the above books sent to any address in the United States, free of postage.
Se-nd Cashorders to Frederic A. Brady, Publisher, No. 22 Ann Street, New-York.

I.
t'
''I

I

FRU DIBICA. BR&amp;DY"5 OATALGU)I.
BI tADY'IOX1.UUL&amp;TJD " MOII! owPOmUS

i
k,
4y4  Fti                     t
t ,               .

4'

t
s
_


S                     FREDERIC A. BRADY'S CATALOGUE.
BRADYI     NRLEBRATNDI "EBRURY" STORIUK.
Kqty Atherton,; or a Broken Life.' By Melpomene Surf';' or the Little Middy.
Margaret Blount. Illustrated with six beautiful - By eptimus R. UrbanT. lhastiaed by full-pag
full-page engravings from  designs by Darley.  engravings- .from- designs by Darley. This is aen
This is another interesting story by this gifted an- interesting series of tales of Sailor Life. A child
theress, in which are portrayed many incidents of  is found on the Surf by some of the crew of the
English Life.  .\'"..                           Meiponmene Man-of-War's man, and hence the
"Broken Life!" says one, " iust .be either ' name " Melpomene Surf."  We are here gven a
something new, or else the printer has read the  description of how sailors are impressed into the
'copy' wrongly, and made a terrible blunder on  British service ; and the very many strategem'
the very first page of his book !"             which are resorted to to place seamen in the Eng
No! 'Tie no mistake of the printer's.; 'tis no-.  lish Navy. After they are placed on board and
thing new ! Broken lives are far more common   are once at sea they will do good service, and at-
things than  broken - hearts ;  they  may be   tend to their whole duty, even to fight for their
seen in every direction if you will but turn your  country's glory. There are the usual number of
eyes upon the world you live in. They are simply  characters in this. work that make up the whole
arrows that have missed their mark-streams that  of such a story, and who seem  each and all to
have failed at the fountain head-fair and smiling  play a connecting part. There'is the old board.
gardens that have fallen into barrenness and decay  ing-house-keeper, who endeavors to keep the
-through whose faults who can tell ?"  " See if  " paid off men" as long as it is possible, so that
you can tell, why a heart so fond and warm should  the may spend all their hard-earned money in the
turn to imarble-why hopes so pure should fadq  house, and as soon as 'poor Jack is out of the
and die--why'a nature so innocent should be for-  blunt he is gently assisted to the clutches of the
ever spoiled-why a spirit so eager and bouyant  Press-gang. This highly pleasing and interesting
should bJcontent to fold its pinions,-grovel on the  book is sold at only.......-...........$0 2
*Yearth till the end of all earthly things?     ** And
when the end comes may it not be possible that Maid of the Ranohe ; or the Regula-
then some " city of refuge" will be opened to the  lators and Moderators. A  story of life on the
poor bewildered soul, and the great secret of such  Texas Border. By Dr. J. H. Robinson. 'Illutra
tter failures be revealed ?  I hope so 14      from designs by Darley. Here is a story of life
How beautiful is tise language. And yet the  in Texas about the time of its independence from
whole book is elegantly written in this sweet  Mexico. The vividness of the scenes, and the
strain. A good readable book.. Price. . .$0 25  elegant style of its authorcin describing thenm is
The Shell Hunter ; or an Ocean           Love    well worthy a careful perusal. Many of the char.
Chase. A roqpane , of land and sea. By Ned acters are under fictitious names, yet the,incidentse
Buntline. This work is embellished with eight  are almost entirely matters of the history of that
beautiful engravings'by Darley, each illustrative  beautiful country. Any one who has been i the
of the prominent characters and scenes in ti  ".Lone Star 'State,  can tell that this story is
book, and which are alone worth more than 'its  made up of some actual occurrences. At the time
price. This is a voyage of a pchooner to the coast of its organization into ah independent govera-
f the Pearl fisheries ; where it encounters num- ment, many flocked there from the- States, that
berdess storms, cannibals, and incidents that fast-I found home to warm for comfort, and therefore
ten the mind of the reader to its pages. Bunt-  was formed in Texas that association called Reg-
line's sea stories are all written so carefully that  ulators tand Moderators. They, however, were
those unacquainted with the management of yes-  not always free from tant, yet they succeeded i
els at sea will learn much in the life of a sailor. doing .much good. The story is well-written and
Price--....'............  r. .... $0 -25  will bear reading. Price--............$0 28
1  eOwlet , or the Royatl highwayman. '9        eConspirators:. or the Corsair of
d tale of the Road in the times of George the  Cape Antonio. By Arthur M. Grainger. Five
Thid.  y  eptmusE.Urbn.Thirteen fui.batflfull-page engravings from        designs- hy
page engr'avings from designs by Darley. The -Darley. T1ss book contains a large number of
reader is carried back to the times of the mad  adventures and cruises of a bucaneer ampng'the
and blind King of England. Owlet is the note. Wecst India Islands, in the Cuban Sta. Captain
rious Highwaytpan -that baffles all the celebrated de Salio, as he wvas called, (was in truth a Span,
thief-takers of his'day.  Many inteesting i'.ci-  ish Noble,. and connected with the crown of Ar-
denie is here related1 of him. A poor girl is inno- ragon,) Was for a time a terror to all Spanmish yes'
eently hanged for having stolen a diamond brace- sels, as towards them lie seemed niost bitter and
let from a jewelry establishment.in London. It  -implacable. Letting the empty ships pass around
was afterwards discovered that she' was guiltless. to Mexico, and from Spain, he lay in wait for
but as she had suffered death no reparation could. them on their return laden with the silver trees'
be made. In. those days the punishment for steal-  ures of the mines. The story is^ well written and
ing anything over' forty shillings' in value was gives an insight into " Life in Havana anid Cuba,'t
banging. This book is confidently recommended both on shore and afloat. Thereader will be well
itgathgraorver.rsiei.,.-........wag0g25 paidfo is instino"peinHavt. a PribeC..b0,
V                   h      ' Copies of the above books sent to any address in the United States, free of postage. -
Send Cash orders to Frederic A. Brady Publisher, No. 22 Ann Street, New-York.

t
i


  
             
         
       
   
