
    ----CITATION----
        Richards, T. Addison (1820-1900). Tallulah and Jocassee, or, Romances of Southern Landscape and Other Tales .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7575
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Tallulah and Jocassee, or, Romances of Southern landscape and other tales 
            
                 TALLULAH AND JOCASSEE; OR, ROMANCES OF SOUTHERN LANDSCAPE, AND OTHER TALES. BY T. ADDISON RICHARDS.  CHARLESTON: WALKER, RICHARDS & CO. 1852.   Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1852, by WALKER, RICHARDS & CO., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the District of South-Carolina.   CONTENTS. Page. I. TALLULAH; or The Trysting Rock,.  -  -  1 II. JOCASSEE; or I Capannetto,  -  -  - 103 "I. THE PHRENOLOGIST; or The Tactics of Dr. Cranium, 193 IV. THE TRAVELLERS' CLUB; or Lights and Shades of Locomotion,        . - .   -  2" V. "DON'T BE BASHFUL,"     . .      229 VI. ONE GOOD TURN DESERVES ANOTHER,   -  - 249    TALLULAH; OR, THE TRYSTING ROCK. CHAPTER I. "YOUR pardon, sister, and yours, grave sir," exclaimed Charles Rattleton, gaily approaching a lady and gentleman, apparently absorbed in interesting converse, in a recess some- what apart from the throng which filled the ball-room of the Madison Springs, on the night of August -, 18 -; "I should hesitate to interrupt your pleasant tte-a tWte, did I not know that Mr. Alston will willingly sacrifice his little comforts to the pleasures of others; so, out of consideration to the wishes of our fair friends, expressed and understood, he must e'en enter my service; away to the dance, and both merit and receive a hearty welcome to our 'Castle of Indolence.'" "Come, come," he continued, as Alston was about to ex- cuse himself, " such is our royal will and pleasure, Sir Knight: here you lounge within the magic precincts of Terpsichore's joyous court, as regardless of the royal presence as if musing on a rugged peak of Parnassus, or dreaming on the green sward of some sweet valley; soothed with all the parapher- nalia of purling streams and whispering brooks, blending with the choruses of lark and bob-o'-lincoln minstrelsy, while half the saloon are dying to be presented to the distinguished Mr. A.   And you, sweet sister, must diffuse the light of your countenance more impartially, and where your smiles will be better appreciated, than by my  insensible friend: for you 1   2     TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. must know, that despite his reputed gallantry, he is a dream- ing recluse; indeed, from some cause or oiher, an incorrigible sworn old bachelor; a living refutation of the assertion of the equitable King Theseus, that The power of love In earth and sea, and air and heaven above, Rules unresisted with an awful nod.'  When Charles had exhausted his eloquence and his breath, and had given his friend an opportunity to reply, Mr. Alston excused himself from mingling in the festivities of the eve- ning, by pleading his very recent arrival,'and the fatigues of a long journey, adding, "you must pardon my barbarous insensibility, if I decline a presentation to the company on this occasion, as the interval, until the hour of my departure to-morrow, is so very short, that I feel but little disposed to form new acquaintances." "Departure to-morrow! Now, by all that's rational, you jest," exclaimed Charles; "surely, you cannot meditate such a slight to the attractions of this happy spot; scarcely allow- ing-yourself to breathe an atmosphere redolent of nought but beauty, indolence and ease, the favourite demesne of my thoughtless, light-hearted little goddess, Lubentia herself. Laura, the poor youth is certainly dreaming; come, deal, per- suade him that he is non compos, and bring him to his senses as quickly as possible." "Unfortunately, brother, my eloquence and rhetoric are already enlisted on the opposite side. Mr. Alston's principal object in visiting our 'sunny land' is to indulge himself with a glimpse or- the beauties of our hill region, our cascades, mountains and valleys; but more particularly he seems desi- rous to behold the mad vortex of Tallulah. He says that his time is short, and but for his accidentally hearing of our presence here, his journey to-day would have continued some   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.      3 miles beyond the Springs. Not only have I heard his inten- tions patiently, but have even condescended to applaud them, and promised to urge you to follow his example. Now, as we intend visiting the highlands before we return home, why, dear Charles, not do so immediately, and join Mr. Alston to- morrow in his travels? Sucll is the conspiracy we have form- ed to tear you from your favourite home; and unless you consent to the plan, I must keep my promise, and tease you until you do. So say yes! or prepare for an over whelming deluge of reasons, entreaties, prayers, tears ---" "Now, God forbid!" exclaimed Charles, as the last words reached his ears, in assumed terror, "that I should do aught to mar so sociable a plan. Sister! I cry you mercy; and although I cannot, for the life of me, see a shadow of sense in your sudden departure from this quiet place, for the vex- ations and toils of travel in a rugged country, with larderless and comfortless inns; still I wave my own humble opinion in deference to my restless friend, and my novelty-loving sis. ter. Yet, had we not better delay our trip, say a few days? There is doubtless a vast deal of romance in jolting and bruising over villanous roads, and starving on the picturesque; yet, hang me, if I would not prefer a gentle drive over the well-graded vicinity of the Springs: a walk to the bower and fountain at the end of yon shady grove, to the toilsome as- cents to mountain tops; and the gentle current of mine host's claret and champagne, to all the floods that ever toppled from the precipices of Tallulah or Toccoa. I am satisfied with imagining the one, but. the other requires a more intimate acquaintance.  But, sister, I supposed you too much wed:dl to our present residence to leave it so readily." "The season, brother," returned Laura, " is rapidly passing, our numbers are daily decreasing, and, to tell the truth, I am tired of the Springs, of the listless, profitless nature of life at   4     TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. a watering place; I am weary of the monotony of our em- ployments; am surfeited with walks, music, dancing, cards, and the endless siege of vapid gallantries and heartless cour- tesies. Besides, so much have we to see, that it is time we began our journey, if we reach home before winter; and cousin Lucy has, notwithstanding her gentle nature, betrayed symptoms of impatience at our protracted visit here, and much as her good humour and affectionate disposition contri- bute to the happiness of our circle, nothing, I know, would delight her more thanto exchange a scene in which she de- rives little pleasure, beside that which results from contribu- ting to the joys of others, for the blithe air and romantic beauties of our northern counties." Charles laughed merrily at the first part of his sister's reply, so much was he amused at the grave tone and unwont- ed sentiments of a being, who, from her habitual life and gayety, he had always imagined as thoughtless as himself; but the allusion to cousin Lucy checked his mirth. "Ah!" he replied, " our little angel is so careful of intru- ding her own wishes, where she thinks they may clash with the whims of others, that I had forgotten her penchant for Tallulah. Her character is one that will please you, Mr. Alston: a heart that embraces in its affections the humblest of God's creatures: an imagination wild as the veriest dream, tempered by a spirit of quick and just observation; and a naturally strong mind, improved to the highest by a life of unremitted and successful study; added to which, a temper- ament joyous as the carol of the lark as he soars to kiss the first beams of the rising sun, and which has not been des- troyed, but only chastened and curbed by repeated, and what to ordinary hearts would have proved overwhelming, afflic- tions. Sister! I like not these visits to Tallulah for several years. We have long indulged her romantic attachment to   TALLULAH ; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     5 that spot, which, although we may divine the cause, we know to be utterly hopeless. We really must discontinue our sum- mer journeys, and even now deprive ourselves of the pleasure of accompanying Mr. Alston in his rambles. I have ob- served that our annual visits to Tallulah but add to her grad- ually growing melancholy, which, although, for the sake of her friends, she may endeavour to hide or overcome, preys but too evidently upon her spirits ard health-though, perhaps, after all," he added suddenly in a gayer tone, and one more in keeping with his usual character, "'tis but the natural effect of a scene of such fearful sublimity, upon all but the most callous hearts; for I will acknowledge, that little of the romantic as there is in my own disposition, and often as I have seen Tallulah, I am by no means unwilling to repeat the visit; and, if I recollect aright, you told me last summer, Mr. Alston, that once in your days of vagabondage, yourself wandered to this very spot, and yet you are in as much haste to return as though you had never seen cascade in your life, instead of having gazed upon all the water-falls in the world, from Tivoli to Niagfaa." "You!" exclaimed Laura Rattleton, turning to Mr. Alston, "how provoking! Here I have been fancying the pleasure I should experience in ciceroning you over the Falls, and my triumph," she added, while a deep amor patrice lent a glow of enthusiasm to her beautiful countenance, "in listening to the praises of my native State, from one so able to appre- ciate and judge as Mr. -Alston. I thought you had never been in Georgia before! pray, when were you here, and what secret reason now prompts such a hasty re-visit? Come, sir! I put you 'pon honour, ,and demand an instant and honest reply to my very reasonable queries. Charles! I'll be bound that 'thereby hangs a tale.'" "Sister, I think you are right. Nay, I will swear it," 1*   6     TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. cried Charles, observing a slight crimson steal over the cheeks of his friend, "on my fame, sister, as a physiognomist, I'll swear it!" Frank Alston instantly recovered his usual air of compo- sure, and said, smilingly, that he regretted his experience enabled him to furnish no satisfactory reason for the circum- stance that had so excited Miss Rattleton's curiosity, unless, indeed, Miss R. would believe the effect left upon his mind by such a scene, at an age when his heart was peculiarly sus- ceptible of impressions of the beautiful and grand, was such that he could not resist the impulse to behold it again. "It might not," he continued, " so affect me now, but can you not, Miss Laura, remen her spots which ill past days, when the feelings were fresh, and every object struck the unhackneyed eye with an air of novelty and beauty, left a vivid impression upon your memory, which you could scarcely account for when a visit in after years tore off the veil 8 And now that I have faithfully passed the ordeal of the confessional, may I beg to know what mysterious causes so irresistibly attract your fair friend to these fatal Falls? I would not ask, but I remember you often spoke of her when we first met at Sara- toga, and you then promised to relate to me some incidents in her history; but as yet I have not learned even her name. Now, despite the depreciating charges of Charles, I do assure you I am by no means an indifferent observer of beauty and worth--more particularly when in distress ; and a pensive tale replete as her's must be with poetry and incident, has for me singular interest. Dryden, through Charles' own royal The- seus, has declared, that A general doom on man is past; And all are fools or lovers first or last.' And as my vanity forbids my pleading guilty to the first   TALLULAH ; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.      7 charge, how knows he that I am innocent or can long remain so of the latter?" "Ah! ah! Frank Alston in love!" cried Charles. "Laura, Mr. A. is a poet, and, ideally speaking, his whole life is a dream of love; but you know that he regards your sex with the admiration which he bestows upon creations of the sta- tuary or upon the beautiful in inanimate nature. His love is that spiritual emotion which a mortal cherishes towards a supernatural being. When the object of his worship stands in palpable, living humanity before him, like Byron's, his fancy 'Is degraded back to earth, And all is clay again.' But I see he is really interested, and if he condescends to love any thing, surely it would be such a creature as Lucy Staugh- ton. Come, Laura," he continued, not observing the start of surprise with which Alston heard her name, "commenlce 'once upon a time,' and I promise you two as patient audi- tors as one might desire, if indeed Mr. Alston is not too in- tently absorbed with other thoughts, for really he -must be thinking of a voyage to the third heavens." Mr. Alston declared himself all attention and anxiety, which he really was. "The story," said Laura, " is short and deeply tinged with gloom, as you have already learned. I will add, if possible, to its brevity in my relation, for I have little fondness for scenes or tales of sorrow."   8    TAILULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. CHAPTER II. "LUCY STAUGHTON was born amid the romantic hills of Cumberland,in England. Her parents held high rank -among the wealthy gentry of her native land. Clear and bright as s was the horoscope presented at her nativity, dark and omi- nous clouds quickly overshadowed the scene, and after years fatally contradicted the first happy presage. She had lived but through two summers, when a fatal sickness deprived her of a mother's care, and was the first of a series of afflictions that made her an orphan at an early age. This calamitous event was followed quickly by the loss of the principal part of :her father's estates, through the treachery of his brother. These sad visitations he but impatiently bore. His native place became hateful to him, and he resolved to leave forever, a spot that awakened such painful reflections. "Lucy was but three years of age when she embarked with her father and a brother-one year her senior--at London, for the United States of America. Mr. Staughton bad de- clined even the company of his family nurse, both that her presence would but recall former scenes, and that he hoped the exertion requisite to the care of his children would ope rate as a relieve to his sadness. L Sorrows, which come not single spies, seemed to pour in a torrent upon this devoted family. Hardly, after a tedious voyage, had they caught a glimpse of the shores of New- Jersey, when one of those equinoxial tempests, so fatal upon our coasts, bore their ship upon a dangerous reef, where she suddenly went to pieces, most of the crew and passengers ending their voyage in an ocean grave. "Lucy and her fatherescaped; by what means it boots not, the dangers of the wreck, but it was only to experience the   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.      9 mournful consciousness of another sad bereavement, in the loss of an only son on the part of Mr. Staughton, and on Lucy's, that of a brother, who, young as she was, she remem- bers even then to have fondly loved. Nothing was ever seen of him after the fatal night. She never now speaks of Henry but with deep emotion, and I often detect her gazing intently upon a miniature likeness of him, painted on his fourth birth- day, and which she has sacredly treasured, since the moment it was hung round her neck by her father, shortly before leaving England. This little incident is a striking instance of the unalterable devotion of her heart, a constancy of which her life exhibits most powerful evidence. She values the miniature the more, that her father, in his fondness for his children, had given to her brother, at the same time, a picture of herself at the age of three years, set in a manner precisely similar to the other. "For a time Mr. Staughton appeared heart-broken; but a consciousness of the necessity of exertion, together with the novelty of his situation, operated favourably upon his spirits. With the property he had brought with him, and which, being about his person in bills of exchange, had escaped the ravages of the wreck, he embarked in business in Boston, as a merchant. This was to him an entirely new era in life, but as years flew round, he became again a man of wealth; while Lucy, the idol of his love, sprung into young woman- hood, adorned with all the acquirements and accomplishments amassed by an intelligent and active mind thirsting for im- provement, and assisted by the ablest instructions that opu- lence could command. Since leaving England, however, Mr. Staughton was, in every respect, a changed man; and now, declining health induced him to leave his business in other hands, and to visit the Southern States. He passed several months in the city of --- , where he still procured for   10    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. Lucy the best instructors the place afforded. Among them was a teacher of music, a young man who had but recently arrived in the city, yet had already attracted great attention, both on account of his exquisite skill in his profession, and a certain air of gentlemanly breeding, to which it was ilnpossi- ble not to bow, added to very prepossessing manners, and unusual literary abilities. His society was eagerly courted, but he seemed to shun notice, any further than his duties rendered necessary. His talents, his reserve, and the mys- tery that hung over his life, and which he appeared in no wise disposed to unravel, added to tastes which harmonized happily with her own, soon awoke deep interest in the heart of poor Lucy. "Mr. Staughton became aware of this unhappy circumstance, at the moment his mind was harassed with advices of the precarious situation of his own mercantile affairs, in a period of general commercial embarrassment. His character was naturally proud and haughty, and wanting the Christian for- titude and confidence possessed by his daughter, to endure his trials with meekness and resignation, his natural reserve had deepened to a feeling of almost forbidding sternness. At any time he would have despised so humble a connection for Lucy, but now, when -even the means upon which he depend- ed for her support were flitting away, to give his only-his idolized child, to a penniless adventurer, seemed to him pre. posterous! madness! He angrily and peremptorily forbade further intimacy, and charged Lucy to banish forever from her heart all thoughts of the stranger. "To effect his object, Mr. S. at the same time left and made a tour through the northern parts of this State. While at Tallulah, he had left Lucy alone for a few moments at the Trysting Rock, a recess overhung with massive rocks, half way down the only path leading to the botto/m of the   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     " great ravine. Here she was met by Arthur Pembroke, who had followed her to the spot. The interview was brief. The lover urged her to fly : flung himself at her feet; professing, in most passionate terms, unalterable affection. Lucy was inflexible. She loved him, if possible, with even a deeper intensity of passion; but she loved her father. His will had ever been to her an undisputed law, even in heart or thought. She was firm ; calmly informed him of the absolute necessity of their eternal separation; avowed her unalterable resolve, while Pembroke rushed madly from her presence. "Mr. Staughton, on regaining the Trysting Rock, found his daughter half lifeless on the ground. When returning ani- mation brought back her courage, her father, in great anxiety, returned with her in all haste to the little inn, in the vicinity. It was then," continued Laura, after a pause, " that my parents, with Charles and myself, first met them ; we had just arrived at the inn. Mr. Staughton's anxiety for his daughter, and his unwonted exertions, brought on a sudden return of his mala- dy. In these distressing circumstances, and while the place supplied but scanty accommodation, and no comfoirts, we ven- tured to offer our sympathy and aid. It was gratefully received. Several days passed before Mr. S. was able to travel. When that time arrived, at our earnest solicitations, they accompa- nied us to our own home. "Mr. Staughton's business concerns, in the meanwhile, suf- fered a total weeck; the news of which, in spite of our vigi- lance, reached the invalid, The shock was too much. IIis exhausted frame sunk under it, and his mournful life was over.  With his last breatl, he committed Lucy to our care. It was unnecessary. From the first hour of our acquaintance she became a favourite: and her noble conduct, during her father's illness, so won each heart, that we resolved to use every effort to retain her as a daughter and sister, in our    12    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. family. She watched her father's couch with angelic patience and affection, and with a fortitude that surprised us all. After the burial came the effects of her continued vigils; the grief she had before nobly restrained, now broke out so madly, that for weeks her life was despaired of. Once, even, her death was announced in the gazettes. During her fever and delirium, she raved of Arthur Pembroke, and called upon her mother; father and brother, in the most piteous accents. She slowly recovered, and since then has ever been the idol of our family. Her father's proud spirit breaks forth' occa- sionally, and she seems oppressed with the idea that she is at all dependant upon us. She even speaks seriously of adopting some means to relieve us of the burthen of her support. Poor Lucy," half soliloquized the generous and affectionate Laura, " she would not express such feelings or entertain- them, did she know the pain it gives us, and how much we love her." "Since Arthur's abrupt flight at the Trysting Rock, nothing has been heard of him. Lucy mourns him as dead, or if not, what is far worse and would prove fatal to her confiding heart, he has long since forgotten her. Since then she has refused numerous admirers-wealthy and deserving suitors, I believe she still cherishes his memory with unalterable fond- ness; and from her character, I doubt not, she will carry the feeling to her grave. "Such is her tale; but what, Mr. Alston, is the matter with you?" exclaimed Laura, in alarm, observing that gentle- man deeply agitated. "Surely a mere tale of wo, in which you are in no wise interested, cannot so affect you?" Alston, who had listened with deep interest, started at Miss Rattleton's exclamations; and in a moment replied, with forced calmness, " the story is sufficient to enlist the sympa- thies of harder hearts than mine; but it bears much resem-   Aj        TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.      13 blance in points, to incidents in the life of a valued friend of mine; one whom you met last year at Saratoga, Miss Rattle- ton, and whom," he added, smilingly, and with a provokingly] intelligent glance, "if my impression at the time was correct, you have not yet forgotten." Laura blushed deeply at the words and look of Mr. Alston, and as Lucy herself appeared at that moment, on her return from a promenade to the fountain, she gladly embraced the opportunity to change the conversation from the turn it had taken, and hastened to receive her friend. As Lucy seated herself, she bestowed a rather more atten- tive glance at Mr. Alston than she usually granted to stran- gers. Indeed, she  was scanning his features with great interest, when as Laura formally presented him, her gaze 6changed to the usual calm, yet respectful look, with which she was accustomed to receive every one. Mr. Alston muttered the ordinary compliments, and after a few general remarks, made his adieux for the evening, under the plea of fatigue and indisposition, and to afford his friends time to prepare for the morrow. Laura, with her usual love of mischief, rallied her' cousin upon the interest she had seemed to take in Mr. Alston; charged her with a new episode in her life of romance-" love at first sight;"-and warned her to beware of her new ac quaintance, for he was as successful in winning hearts as Lucy Staughton herself, and as indifferent to the prize when gain- ed, she continued; but observing that Lucy's thoughts seem- ed to ramble upon other matters, she informed her of the projected expedition for the morrow, forgetting at the moment her brother's previous intimation to the contrary. Lucy's mind instantly returned from fairy land, and she expressed her thanks to her cousin, and her great delight at the pleas- ing intelligence. So overjoyed seemed she, that Charles 2   "    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. found it not in his heart to recall the plan. He soon con- ducted the ladies firom the saloon to make their arrangements for the journey : while he, after giving the necessary orders concerning his horses, repaired to his favourite domicil-a log cabin retired from the main hotel, upon which the ladies, in compliment to the jovial, reckless character of its inmates, had lang-syne bestowed the soubriquet of Sodom. Here he was soon deeply engaged in a game of whist, by way of fare- well to the old place. While the ladies are packing their innumerable band-boxes, and Charles and his fellows are industriously driving dull care from the apartments of "' old Sodom," we will indulge thee, reader, with a more intimate peep into the character of sundry of our dramatis personae. CHAPTER III. FROM the narrative of Laura Rattleton, enough has been learned of the character of Lucy. Her desolate situation, while it tamed the original volatility of her disposition, called forth springs of the deepest feeling, which cast over all her actions a winning air of pensive thoughtfulness and angelic resignation. The same causes threw a striking and inexpli- cable charn; over her person and features. Her form, always one that mig'ht delight the statuary, seemed to have gained additional lightness and grace. She moved, or rather glided, with a less buoyant and rapid step, though with a fairy-like ease and noiselessness. Her clear blue eye beamed with a softer tenderness, and bhr lips, when graced with her habitual, chastened smile, spoke new volumes of gentle affection. The blight of hope after hope had stolen from her cheek hues   t XI        TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCOK.     .I that would have disgusted a painter with his pallette-but had given instead, an ethereal transparency to a complexion that always vied with the purest pearl, and which would now have impressed Apelles with a consciousness of the impotency of his art, even had he succeeded in portraying  the matchless loveliness of his Campaspe. A dress of deep mourning, which she could never be induced to lay aside, heightened, if possible, the unrivalled charms of her character and person. Laura Rattleton was a light-hearted creature, over whom the clouds of adversity had never hovered ; she was very like what Lucy might have been, had the first happy omen of her nativity proved true. She possessed a face and form of faultless beauty; a mind and fancy, highly and judiciously cultivated; feelings and passions of unwonted intensity; but which few knew her to possess, as she was rarely seen in any other char- acter than that of the acknowledged queen and leading spirit of the gay butterflies of her acquaintance.  Her gayety, though resulting, in a great degree, from a temperament naturally happy, sanguine and active, was not uninfluenced by an ambition to perfect the character, tacitly assigned her by her companions, and a dread of the raillery of her brother Charles. Her dark piercing eye and slightly arched lip, were the index of much wit and mischief in her composition. She delighted to tease, though she would have shrunk from in- flicting real pain. Conscious herself of the power her beauty, talents and wealth, gave her, few but dreaded the shafts of Laura Rattleton's sarcasms. Many, who otherwise would have aspired to her hand, shrunk back, while those who bold- ly ventured to lay siege to the fair citadel, were repulsed only to proclaim her a heartless coquette, yet still to attend the beck of the gay sovereign. One year previous to the opening of our story, she had made a tour through the Northern States. At Saratoga   16     TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. Springs she had first met with Mr. Alston. She was there, as at home, the acknowledged queen of beauty and love, and among her conquests was Mr. Henry Morton, an intimate friend of Mr. Alston. Mr. Morton, it was generally supposed, had even made greater inroads upon the heart and fancy of Laura. Circumlstances called him suddenly to England; the. Rattletons returned home, where for a time Charles rallied his sister so unmercifully upon her adventure, that she as- sumed such perfect indifference to the stranger, as to make the affair completely forgotten, until her agitation at the remarks of Mr. Alston that evening, had recalled all the incidents to Charles' mind, and delighted him with the assurance, that his sister was vulnerable at more points than was the great Achilles. Charles Rattletoni believed himself perfectly inac- cessible to the arts and stratagems of the boy-god, and noth- ing pleased him more than to see his companions sinking under the inflictions of his feathery shafts, more particularly when the victim was one of those who has afflcted an indif- ference and contempt of the puissance of the implacable little deity. Charles was, in disposition, much like his sister. He pos- sessed a heart of real kindness, and springs of deep feeling when the display was required. He always acted upon the pretty maxim, " cheerfulness is the best hymn to the deity," only his conduct splrung solely from an exuberant and irre- pressible flow of animal spirits; a philosophic indifference to real cares, and an utter contempt for mere imaginary trouble. He extracted pleasure from every incident of life. Is it then a wonder, that he was an oracle among associates of his own sex, and a universal favourite and confident-dangerous dis- tinction-among his fair companions? particularly when to this attractive character, were added   "FO ]I        TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     17 "great charms of mind, To which elegance of outward form was joined; While youth made these bright objects still more bright, And fortune set them, in the strongest light.'" Very different from Charles Rattleton was Frank Alston; indeed, did we compare him in any points to either of our corps, it would be to Lucy Staughton. He was now in the prime of manhood; like Lucy, his nativity was in the beau- teous clime of happy England; like hers, his parents held respected and honoured rank in the community, which they still retained, having happily escaped the trials that crushed the fated Stauglitons. In his youth some follies into which he was led, throllugh the influence of reckless associates, so morti- fied his proud hleart, that suddenly he left home and rambled to America. Here lie first contracted an intimacy with Laura's admlirer, Henry Morton. In his wanderings he was overtaken by a protracted illness. On his recovery he found his resources nearly exhausted. The situation was new to him; he knew not what to do; to return home was out of the question, and to wiite to blis father for funds, was an idea not for a moment entertained by his proud heart.  He was accustomed to think and act for himself; and with the prompt- ness that enabled him so resolutely to brave his father's dis- pleasure in leaving England, he determined that his talents should support him. In very early youth he gave evidence of unusual mental powers and a fervid, vigorous imacina- tion, from which his friends predicted great distinction in after life. IIis early years, however, fled in dreamy inactivi. ty; still he wrote verses, evidently the product of a mind that required only the spurs of adversity and necessity, to bring it forth from the murky clouds, into the clearness and glory of noon-day.  Passionately fond of the fine arts as well as poe- try, he had acquired great skill in both music and drawing. '2    18     TALLULAH ; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. His present misfortunes proved the very means of drawing forth his proper character. All symptoms of the morbid, restless traits of his early years vanished, and his success in life seemed certain ; when, from some cause, he abruptly re- turned home, and long indulged his old humour. Despite this circumstance, his proud and ambitious spirit forbade idle- ness, and the predictions of his friends were rapidly accom- plishing in the distinction every where won by his transcend- ant genius. He was at the height of his fame, when a year before we now find him in Georgia, he had revisited America, and had formed an affectionate intimacy with Charles Rattle- ton and his sister. CHAPTER IV. IT was late the next day i/before our party were ready to commence their journey.; so many objections to their leaving had to be combated, so many adieus exchanged, and so many trifles to be thought of. Finally, all was settled; farewells exhausted ; kisses expended; and the carriages rattled along the avenue, lined on either side with picturesque cottages and cabins-passed the grand entrance of the Springs, and were fairly following their hearts to the highlands. The morning was unusually brilliant. The late sultriness was banished by a gentle shower of t4h; previous night. The air was cool and pleasant, and even Charles appeared delighted with the change; so much so, that his sister retorted upon him the accusation of "novelty-loving," which he had bestowed upon her the night before, and charged him with faithlessness to his first love.   1          TTALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROOK.      19 "Here is Charles," cried she, " after all his boasted antipa- thy to travel, as glad to leave his-favourite Springs as was the restless Childe Harold his home, when he sung, ' My native land, good night.'A" "Not so fast, gentle sister; rather compare me to Rogers' rustic hero, who, on leaving his mother's hearth, 'Turns on the neighbouring hill, once more to see The dear abode of peace and privacyv; And as he turns, the thatch among the trees, The smoke's blue wreaths ascending with the breeze, All rouse reflection's sadly, pleasing train, And oft he looks and weeps, and looks again.' "   With the last line, Charles turned with a most lugubrious gaze towards their late home, which was now rapidly fading from his sight. This "last, long, lingering look," together with the tone in which he ended his quotation, produced from all an uncontrollable burst of mirth.      "Ah! ah!" he replied, "I see you are resolved that I shall be happy, despite circumstance or place. Well, by our lady, you are right! and as for place, why should we not be as contented in one spot as another? What says the poet? ' No sky is blue, no leaf is verdant; it is our vision that lath the azure and the green. It is that which expands and causes to diminish, things which are in themselves ever the same;' and so he goes on to discourse, most truly and eloquently, like a good philosopher of the Rattletonian school. A mur- rain, say I, upon the long visaged traitor that can greet such a glorious day as this, other than with a welcoming smile! Yes : yes: trust me friends, ' Still to ourselves in every place consigned, Our own felicity we make or find.'" Charles' joyous humour proved so contagious, that hour after    20    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. hour the conversation and the laugh were unabated in the little cavalcade. It was past mid-day when the carriages entered the little town of Carnesville, a distance of fourteen miles firom Madi- son, and just one half of the day's contemplated stage. Here they paused only to partake of a hasty repast, for as they were to spend the night at the Currahee Mountain, they were desirous of the advantage of an approach to the spot ere night-fall. The village itself, small, and wearing a very dingy aspect, presented no inducement for a protracted so- journ. Charles' sarcasms upon the few black, dilapidated wooden houses and the rugged streets, were received very good humouredly by the host, blended as they were with much of drollery and hilarity. His refusal to partake of the dubious wines of the hostel, was even excused by virtue of his manfully pledging his landlord in a bumper of water from a noted and valuable lime-stone spring in the village, which Charles declared to rival the richest ambrosia ever gulped upon Olympus.  He would have persuaded his co-ppanions to test its quality, but they unanimously professed such un- bounded confidence in the justness and ability of Mr. Charles Rattleton's judgment, and more particularly in the relish with which they had observed him to empty the glass, that- further trial on their part was very unnecessary. After duly invoking the kind protection of St. Julian, as it behooves all good travellers to do, they were again en route, with a resolve to make all speed for their night-quarters. Many little interruptions, however, greatly retarded their pro- gress.  Pauses had to be granted, while the occupants of one vehicle communicated with the inmates of the others. The gentlemen had to chase butterflies and pluck wild flowers, that ever and anon elicited the admiration or envy of the   IW         TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.      21 ladies. Laura Rattleton first insisted upon driving Mr. Al- ston's sulky, while he took her seat in her brother's barouche -a freak prompted as much by kindness as fancy! Then she would ride horseback, and again walk or run, whenever the approach to a brook, spanned by a narrow, rickety log, for a bridge, invited her adventurous spirit. Once she even insisted upon taking passage for a mile, in a cart they en- countered on the way, while She gave the astonished negro practical lessons in horse-and-cartmanstip.  These and sun- dry other little fieaks, so beguiled the time that the sunset, and even the twilight hour, had passed before they caught a glimpse of the mountain. Night's shadows unmitigated by light of moon or star, enveloped then. They still slowly pursued their route, ignorant of the distance they were from the inn, until reaching a place where the road branched, it became necessary to hold a council of travel before further advance.  The left-hand path being the broadest and plainest, it gained the suffrages of all save Charles, who though he had, for some year or two  past, taken another route to the Falls, retained some slight recollections of the road. He as- sured them that "broad was the road that leads to destruc- tion," but despite the august authority by which he support- ed his opinion, it was overruled. The path selected traversed the base of the east side of the mountain, and though once the main route, was now so dan- gerously out of repair, that it had long since been neglected for the more circuitous and safe road to the right, which they had rejected. Laura was still mounted en cavalier, as they turned into the old path, and she persisted in so travelling, alleging it to be safer than the carriage. Their progress was snail-like, and a feeling of still greater anxiety gathered around all but Charles, who, to cheer them, increased his volubility, and   22    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCI., broke out into a loud and merry song. The tones, breaking on the mountain rocks, were startlingly re-echoed on every side. The effect was the very reverse of what he designed; the hollow echoes of the song, added to the night chillness of the mountain air, though in the midst of summer, but deep- ened the gloom. Even Charles was silent, as he carefiilly guided his trusty steeds. Horse, chariot and rider, were in- visible, and there was something unearthly in the rumbling of the wheels, the suppressed whispers of the party, and the occasional ringing of the horses' hoofs, as striking upon some of the maty rugged stones that lined the road, they drew forth startling gleams of vivid light, that but served to aug- ment the impenetrable darkness. Their progress grew mo- mently more hazardous, when an instant of painful suspense was broken by a lough'neigh from the watchful steeds, and a shriek of terror from Lucy, that wrung fearfully through the silent air, and was flung in reverberating echoes from rock to rock of the neighbouring hills, when Charles Rattleton instant- ly, and almost unconsciously, was standing on the ground and checking the struggles of the horses to fiee themselves from the prostrate vehicle. Laura's horse, affrighted at the confu- sion, became unmana(eable, and dashed impetuously down the rugged defile; for a while she nobly grasped the reins, and vainly strurggled to arrest his speed. On he rushed with lightning haste, until stumbling on the -brink of a slight pre- cipice, her fate seemed inevitable. She saw the danger but for a moment-her strength deserted her-a dizziness and weakness paralyzed her nerves, and exhausting her breath in a faint scream, she was no longer able to avert, or conscious of, her fate. ri   II         TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     23 CHAPTER V. THE time of which we now write is a period some month or two prior to the date of the incidents detailed in the pre- ceding chapters. It was summer; the sun had long set; a gentle breeze had substituted a delicious coolness, for the sultriness of the departed day: the 'brilliant and delightful twilight, so peculiar to England, threw a singular charm over the landscape. The hearts of the humble villagers of Con- way seemed in unison with the calmness and repose of na- ture. Various groups were gathered beneath the latticed porches, fragrant with'the honey-suckle and eglantine that ornamented the little cottages of the simplest labourers; gay maidens and sun-burnt swains, tripped with a natural grace to the measures of the merry viol; while the elder members of the community, after the honest toils of the day, enjoyed the present moment, unalloyed with corroding reflections upon the past, and unembittered with futile and unhallowed ambitions for the future. Bats and balls and rolling hoops engaged the attention of the boys, and their ringing laugh, followed by the approving smile of older and graver lips, pro- claimed a scene of real heartfelt enjoyment. But on lifting the eye-from the simple homesteads to the lordly mansion, occupying a noble eminence in the outskirts of the village, and looking proudly down upon the residences below, with what strange rapidity another scene is pictured upon the ca- mera of the brain. The very aspect of the building, with its grey massive wallsand closed shutters, contrasting so vividly with the neatly-painted and vine-clad cottages around, pro- duces a chill upon the heart, arrests the warm flow of kindly sympathy that the first scene had elicited, and whispers a sullenness, reserve and seclusion, unsuited to pure happiness; a thought, only increased by the faint glimmer of a light,   24    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.' from a chamber in a retired part of the edifice. So seemed to think the villagers, for, ever and anon, as they bent their gaze upon the " fall," as it was called, a shade came over the brow, followed by an ominous shake of the head, or a half- suppressed remark,.touching its inmates; or as they glanced again at their own peaceful homes, breathed their heartfelt thanks that their own lot was not one of splendid misery. "Ah, lack-a-day!" exclaimed a venerable dame, " it is n't gold, my bairns, or great houses or broad lands, that brings happiness. I thank God that he has given me a home, if it is n't as grand as the Hall, and a bed to rest my weary limbs on, though it has n't got the silk curtains and gay trappings of the Squire's, yet may be I don't sleep less soundly than he does, for all that. Why should I wish to roll in his grand coach, while I have health and strength to walk in the beau- tiful fields, and a heart to feel God's mercies, and to thank Him too; which I think is more than he can do, if the truth was known? What is all his wealth, if a guilty- conscience makes a bitter of every sweet? What good can it do him if he has none to love him, and none to love? No, I envy not the great," continued the dame, a tear stealing from her eye as it rambled from the joyous revelry around, to the happy and healthful countenances of her own family; "I'm blessed beyond my deserts, and I wish for nothing more." "True, dame, ye speak truly," replied her husband, look- ing affectionately from her to his children; " we have indeed much to be thankful for-health, plenty, content, kindred and friends, which, as you say, is more than the Squire in his grand prison can boast. Yet I mind the day when Richard Staughton was a lad, as gay and blithesome as the merriest of yon roysterers. Richard, though, was always a proud youth, and had many great fancies in his head, and I fear he has paid dearly for his whistle."   :1:        TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     25 "Ah!" replied the dame, "those were happy days, and the Hall was blithe enough then, while his old uncle lived. But since his death, Richard Staughton has been another be- ing. The immense riches of the uncle were too glittering a prize for him, and his heart once set upon it, he was n't the man to be easily thwarted: I fear there was much foul play in that matter. Ever since his brother Edward went to America, something seems to have preyed upon his spirits, and since the news of his death, and that of poor Henry and Lucy, he has lived so shut up in the Hall, that it seems more like a haunted castle than a Christian house. Those sweet little darlings! they were but mere babes, when the good gentleman, heart-broken, left our merrie England; yet God is merciful, and they are happier now than they would have been if they had lived to inherit his rough fortune." "It's many years ago," replied the old man, "yet I re- member the day, as though it were but yesterday, and so do others, no doubt, with more cause than I do. It cost me the company of my old friend, John Phillips, and a more honest heart never beat." "Ay, and me," added the dame, "of my old crony, Nancy Phillips; I thought the poor creature's heart would have broken, when Mr. Staughton refused her wish to go with him. She was brought up in the family, and was the nurse of the children from their birth. It's very strange we have heard nothing from them since they left." "I think with you," said another of the group, " that Phil- lips would not have gone across the water if he had not hoped to have met with his old master, or at least to find Miss Lucy." "No, no," was the reply, " but the villainy of that scape- grace son of theirs, Jack Phillips, was a hard blow to them,   26    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. and made them sick of the place, as Edward Staughton's misfortunes did him." "I have often thought," said another, " that Jack knew more of the secrets of the Hall than he ever acknowledged; and we all noticed how often he was seen with that villain Dighton, after the will in favour of Sir Richard was proved." "Murder will out," added the dame, " and the guilty will yet be punished. I have had strange notions in my head ever since that young man was here awhile ago; the one we all thought so much like poor Edward Staughton. I almost fancied the good gentleman had left his grave; yet he told us his father lived in -America." "Would to God, Harry did live," said her husband; " but that is not at all likely, dame; 'tis many rears since we heard of his death in the wreck of the ship that carried the family over the water. But hark! what noise is that-a horse's hoof-there he goes. Dighton returned, by St. Nicholas, and riding for the Hall as for life! What new mystery now; something I trow, for mischief always follows that man's path." Here we leave the cottagers to their speculations, upon this interruption to their tattle, and follow the rider to the man- sion of Sir Richard Staughton. Tlhis gentleman was now approaching the sear and yellow leaf of life, yet still exhibit- ed an erect and well moulded figure, with a countenance of much manly beauty, except that, apparently frlom bitter cares and long vigils, his features had assumed a gloomy and harsh expression, mingled with an occasional sinister glance, which he seemed to have acquired from long cherished fear, or dis- trust and suspicion of his fellow-men. Sir R. was reclining on a couch in the apartment already mentioned, as the only one lighted in the extensive mansion;   i2        TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. a knock at the door aroused him from his revery, and the servant announced a visit from Mr. Dighton. W "Tell him I am unwell, and will see him in the morning." "He says, your honour, that his business is urgent, and brooks no delay." '"Business-urgent!" replied Sir R.; "well-well-show him ulp." "I give you good evening, Sir Richard," said Dighton, en- tering the apartment, and hastily filling a glass from a decan- ter of Rhenish, upon the buffet; " though by the rood how long I may be able to address you as'Sir Richard, I know M not." "I return your salutation, Dighton, though what brings   you back to Conway so unexpectedly, and what the latter clause of your address means, I cannot surmise,'" replied Sir Richard, with his usual cool indifference to surprise, yet glancing an inquiring eye at his visitor; " speak, man!" "Calmly, my good Sir Richard," said Dighton, laughing and refilling his glass; "faith, I have ridden hard, and this beverage is in no wise ungrateful. Let me fill you a glass, and then to my news." "Dighton," said the host, "I would give much for your cool contempt of fortune's ugly pranks. I always thought myself quite aufait, in sneering at the old lady's firowns, but by all that's impudent, as you would say, I verily believe, that if the amiable Charon had 3 ou in that questionable bark of his, you would pause to parley with the venerable gentle- man, and to pledge a prosperous vovage ere you pushed off!" "Mention it not, my good Sir Richard: I am not ready to pay my respects to the charcoal majesty of the trans-styx dominions. I am so much in his debt, I have not the hardi- hood to look him in the face. Egad! if my accounts were looked over, there would be found, as in the case of Don fi   28    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. Juan, I fear, 'a deuced balance with the d--l.' As ' deer- stealing ' Will has it, 'cowards die many times before their death.' Why make ourselves miserable in fearing misery; rather, Sir Richard, adopt with me, the motto, Dum vivimus Mivamus,' as old Dr. Thrashemwell hath it, or as Cow " "But, 'revenons a nos moutons, " interposed Sir Richard; "your news, my dear Dighton, your news 2" "Ah :" answered Dighton, sinking his voice to a lower key, "that villain, Phillips, has returned from abroad, and is now in England!" "Jack Phllips returned! pshaw! what of that?" peevish- ly replied Sir R. "What of it? Think you I would post a hundred miles at the peril of my own and my horse's neck for nothing? Suppose he confesses his share in matters which we need not particularize?" "Well, suppose he does," added Sir' R. coolly, " what can he prove? The will is destroyed, the heirs are dead, and have you not hold enough on him to insure his silence, were it even not so .?' "True! Sir Richard; one would think you were a lawyer instead of myself, you argue so calmly and logically; but let me'replenish your glass, and state the second count in my bill. You must know that I share seen Phillips, and he seems to repent his share in our concerns since the emigration of his parents to America, and, with the aid of the wine cup, I learned that the will was not destroyed!" "Ay! what! not destroyed I  Why kept you not-hold of the villain 7" "Patience, Sir Richard; the will he placed in a secret drawer of a small cabinet which belonged to the late Edward Staughton, which, when his crimes hurried him precipitately from England, shortly after the death of your honoured uncle,   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     29 fell into the possession of his mother, and being valued by her as a memento of Mr. Edward Staughton and his family, she is supposed to have taken it with her to Anmerica,-and if liv- ing, most probably still retains it." "Not unlikely; she was my brother's family nurse, and deeply attached to them. Dighton! some measures must be taken for the recovery of the cabinet." "You speak like yourself again, Sir Richard. Measures must be adopted. Phillips seems to have discovered the resi- dence of his family and is about visiting them, though we can hardly trust him." Sir Richard mused for a few moments, and added, "You should have taken care of that fellow, my dear Dighton. As for the will, I don't see how it can affect us if it should be produced, which would not be likely if that rascal were dis- posed of." "As for Jack," returned the other, "I saw not how to manage him; he has slipped into the service of a youth from New-York--with whom I am acquainted, by the way-and who, it appears, served either him or his father while in In- dia, some years ago; and touching the will, it is of the utmost importance that it be secured, for it is reported that Henry Staughlton is still living " ' Good G-d!" ejaculated Sir R. "Henry Staughton liv- ing!  No, no! it can't be "--looking anxiously at the former -"it can't be!-it must not be!" as his eye assumed an ex- pression of stern and desperate resolve. "Living! and in England! such is the report; but calm your fears, Sir Richard; I myself am  utterly incredulous. Indeed, I think it absurd. It was caused, I believe, by a fancied resemblatnee, traced by some of our old women, be- tween your nephew and a   stranger who recently passed through the village. on his route to the metropolis. I won. 8*   30    . TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. der you heard not of it; but you are so cooped up in your castle you would hardly hear of the fact if the earth was burnt up." "Something must be done. Phillips must not go, or not go alone. What do you propose?" asked Staughton. "I pre- sume you have not come so hastily merely to alarm me 7.' "I propose," answered Dighton, with the air of a man whose mind was made up--"I propose joining Jack, crossing the Atlantic, finding the elder Phillips, and returning as quickly as may be, with the desired cabinet, or at least to provide for Jack; my acquaintance with Mr. Morton, his pre- sent master, may facilitate my ends." "Morton," said Sir Richard; " ah! you remind me of a firm in New-York who were once connected with my uncle in his commercial transactions in India; 'll provide you letters to then." '"The same, my dear sir," replied Dighton; " my compag- non de voyage is a son of the principal of the very house." "Well, that's fortunate," said Staughton; "I wish you a speedy and successful tour. When do you go 2" "In the morning I must for the seaport, or I shall be too late. Mingle more with the villagers, my dear sir, and ac- count plausibly for my absence. Au revoirY. CHAPTER VI. THE majesty of night reigned supreme; her rayless sceptre held undivided sway ; no spark or glimmer in all the stellar empire opposed her rule. It was the night following the one in which our story commenced-the same  on which we left   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     3 1 Charles Rattleton and his friends for the trans-atlantic digres- sion in our last chapter. Some travellers had that day ar- rived at the little hostel, at the base of the Currahee, the famed mountain towards which Charles and his party were then journeying. "Shade of Erebus!" exclaimed the elder of the travellers, as they languidly threw aside the dice, after an hour's toil at back-gammon, and stood at the door of the inn--' Faith! it's a night h--ll1 itself might be proud of, as far as colour goes. I trust no poor strollers have the misfortune to be on the road at this time." "Why?" replied his companion; " you must remember we have no Paul Cliffords and Jack Straws here, to enliven the tedium of travelling, with a gay minuet on the road-side, and benevolently to relieve the passing coach of its burthen, in order that it may travel the easier. You are not now among the mountain passes of Italy, or even the high-roads of Eng- land." "You are right, my dear Morton,." replied his friend; " you speak but too truly. I am sick of this insipid travelling; as you say, there is nothing to fear in this slip-slop country but your horses and roads; no adventure but a tug with an ob- stinate steed; nothing to fear but a rut in the path, an over- grown brook, or a rickety bridge : contests, inglorious enoughb! I like something more stirring and varied. It is now six weeks since we landed in New-York, and not an adventure have we met with. Apropos of adventure. "It was just such a night as this, several years ago, while rambling in Italy, I came up with a party of banditti, at the moment they were sacking the coach of some Ameiican tra- vellers.  The light of the robbers' torches enabled us to see without being ourselves observed. The gentlemen of the party struggled manfully, but vainly, against superior num-    32    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. bers. A gallant fellow, apparently the captain of the band, struck with the beauty of the youngest of the ladies, insisted upon the honour of her hand, in a dance upon the rich lawn that stretched from the road side, while some of the. bandits whistled or-hummed a favourite air, and others quietly occu- pied themselves in disposing of their booty. Coming up at this instant, the coup d'eail was so singularly beautifll and novel, that my companions and myself forgot the necessity of affording assistance, and stood silently enjoying the scene. Even the prisoners seemed to forget, for the tine, their un- pleasant situation, and raising themselves, as well as their bonds would allow, united in the whistle of the orchestra, and begged to be set at liberty, that they might join the sporlt, pledging their parole d'honneur to submit again at the conclusion! At this moment the lady seized the opportuni- ty of a favourable figure in the dance--plucked two pistols friom the belt of the bandit, and levelling one at his heart, brought him to her feet; with the second, she wounded another, and with electric haste, plucking a knife from the grasp of the fallen robber, she sundered the bands that con- fined her brother and friends! The sudden confusion brought us to our senses, and instantly raising a shout, we joined in the me&le; and came, indeed, most opportunely to the rescue, for another party of banditti, lying in reserve, had come up, and they were again in the ascendant. The heroic girl, who produced the strife, was in the arms of a ruffian, his stiletto gleamed in the air, as her colour faded and her spirits sank. with a horrid imprecation the steel was descending, when rushing in, with one hand I dashed up the villain's arm, and with the other lent him the friendly aid of what little lead my pistol contained, to further his progress to a land and people more befitting his respectable fellowship; at the same time catching the fainting girl in my arms. By this time the des-   *        TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     33 peradoes were completely routed, but at their urgent request I accompanied the party to the neighbouring village, where days quickly fled in their pleasarnt society. Egad! she was a noble creature; that adventure and the pretty heroine, have fi'equently crossed my mind, and her brother, a gay and spirit- ed youth, as one could desire, although an American. He was a native of the South, however, and they say the. South- rons have warm hearts, daring and generous. Parbleu! While I bethink me, he was a native of this very State! Here's a prospect of pleasure! I'd risk much to see the girl again!" "Their names! their names, Dighton!" exclaimed Henry, who had listened with deep attention. "Their names!-oh the d-1, yes! let me see-names! forgotten! d--- n it! forgotten!" answered Dighton. t"Yet stop! I think I have them in my pocket-book-but what's the matter, man? Has my story offended you? D' ye think I did not conduct the romance in orthodox style, in not leav- ing them abruptly, after the rescue, like some supernatural aid; 'disappearinrg in the confusion of the scene,' as the newspapers have it; or do you think the lady should have resigned her heart instanter; and I, in return, should have offered lher the name and fortune of Mr. Alfred Dighton! Ah! A! ah! cheer up, Harry, all may be right yet. If I meet my little heroine again, faith! I have half a mind to humour your taste, and end that exploit in true lover's style. She was a proud little witch, and would have worn a coronet or crown with grace and dignity; and if I do not flatter myself, she regarded me not without favour. The prospect bright- ens; nothing pleases me more than some little adventurous gallantries; though as for marriage-bah! I leave that to romantic youths like you, Morton. I hope something will turn up to break the sameness of our route; here you hlave rambled a thousand miles in search of a lady-love, who gave   34    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. you a few pleasant smiles, a year ago, and I am on the qui vivgto catch a glimpse of another, who thanked me once for saving her life, and whose name even 1 have forgotten! Egad! get thee to thy closet, Morton, and pray our patron saint, Don Quixote, to lend us his gracious aid, in these 'wind-mill' matters." "I think," said Henry, ",such an appeal would not be out of keeping; yet I feel but little disposition to jest to-night. I wish you had not forgotten the name of your heroine; are you sure they were residents of Georgia? The story reminds me of a similar one which some friends--the very friends I most wish to see--once briefly related to me. Mr. Rattleton and his sister were " "Apollo and the muses!" cried Dighton; "Charles and Laura Rattletou 8" "Yes! How know you them ." "Know them, my dear sir? The very salne! My hero- ine of Italy!" "Is she? Is she, indeed!" replied Morton; " now I recol- lect she mentioned your name as her deliverer." "Ah! then she has not forgott n me." "'Tis not likely, sir, her generous heart would forget any one who had thus served-her." "Ah! my dear Morton, lies the wind in that quarter? Is my   little heroine indeed your lady-love, and art jealous? Faith! if my memory serves me, I applaud your judgment and your choice. ' Oh! drive that shadow from thy brow,' as the song says; I'll not contend with you, Morton. No, no; I  shall be happy to farther your views. I resign you the field, my Pythias." "I am greatly indebted to you, sir, but I ask no sacrifice," replied Henry, offended at the light manner in which Digh- ton spoke of Miss Rattleton, and jealous of his claims upon   !TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     35 her regard. "If we should meet the lady again, she can be- stow her smiles where she pleases, and none need resign what they do not possess." "Now, upon my word, Morton, this is too bad; you misun- derstand me:   ' Alas! how light a cause can move Dissension between hearts that love I' Come, come, your pardon, Henry!" "Granted, though unneeded. You have said naught to offendd nle; yet I confess my spirits to-night' accord not well with your careless mirth. With your leave I'll leave this cell for a stroll over the lawn yonder." "Go, my dear fellow," replied Digh ton ; " but pray leave your arms behind you. I fear to trust you alone, in your atrabilarious mood, on such a sombre night as this. But 'k  stop!" he added, as Henry was leaving the house-" do pray see the old crone that our landlord tells .us dwells on the crown of the mountain, and ask her to read the stars for you; never mind if none are visible, she can put on her spectacles, stir up her spice bowl, and 'twill answer every purpose!" "Faith!" soliloquized Dighton, as his eye rested on the dark outline of the mountain, while his hand was on the door- latch, "that is a noble sight! It carries me back to the hills and dales of my own country. I seem again to be entering the land of romance. This night has suggested matter which may prove fruitful in adventure. That Morton! I can't rid myself of the idea that his fate is associated in some manner with my own.   Were astrology--in vogue, I would wager that at the natal hour our stars bad crossed each other's path. 'Tis strange I I think I have seen his face before; how, when, or where, is a mystery. Surely he was not one of the party in Italy? No, I should remember him if that were the case;    36    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. and this Laura; I resigned him the field--bah! no one shall cross Alfred Dighton's path with impunity!" CHAPTER YII. "EAVING the court-yard, Morton entered upon a lawn ex- tending in an undulating sweep from the inn to the foot of the mountain. As he walked, he mused upon the clhequered current of his life; of his meeting with Laura Rattleton at Saratoga, a meeting of which we have before spoken. Though he had since heard nothing of her, she had ever been the bright image about which his fancies would cling, assuming countless beautiful and happy forms; fyet quickly mingling with their kindred air, as he remembered that perhaps he should never meet her again; perhaps she had forgotten him; or was even then the bride of another. He rarely suffered the last thought to intrude itself. It was too painful an idea. He ventured not to muse upon the consequences that would follow the events he feared, but fondly cherished hope, feeble and treacherous as he knew her to be, in his bosom. Since his acquaintance with Laura, the business of his firm had called him to England. Here he first met Alfred Digh- ton, a man whose varied talents and knowledge of the world had won his companionship, yet had failed to gain his love or esteem. To the confiding heart of Morton, there appeared in Dicihton's character an indefinite tincture of craftiness, and lack of upright principle, that precluded anything like attach- ment; yet in the short period of their acquaintance, he had pained an influence over the mind of Morton, which would           TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCO.     37 have cost him no little effort to shake off. There was a something about the man which he did not like, and the con- fidence apparently existing between his own servant, Jack Phillips, and his firiend, disturbed him, although he could not even conjecture any possible cause. As he thus mused, the sounds of a voice, as if singing, caught his ear; yet dying away, he fancied them coming from the inn, and echoed by the mountain, and continued his stroll, until he entered a broken, and apparently long-aban- doned carriage path, traversing, in the form of a parapet, the eastern ledge of the mountain. He had passed but little of this wild path, when a scream of distress broke startlingly upon his ear. Reminiscences of his late conversation with Dighton flashed through his mind, and with the speed of the mountain roe, he flew down the jungle to the point from whence thile cries issued. In the darkness of the night, he could barely distinguish a female form, half fallen firom a horse. With a desperate bound he seized the bridle of the affrighted animal; reined him back frorn the precipice over which he hung, and throwing an arm around the lifeless form of the rider, bore her off hurriedly to the inn. To Phiillips, who had that instant arrived, alarmed by the cries which had reached the house, he threw the bridle of the steed, and passing Dighton, who now  appeared on the ground, lent a deaf ear to his questions, and bade him hurry on, as others of the party seemed to be behind. Arriving at the inn, he was too much engaged in applying restoratives to his charge, and too deeply excited to notice particularly her features. When, however, his alarm was somewhat stilled by returning animation to her countenance, he gazed a moment intensely in her face, struck with the ex- ceeding beauty of his lovely burden; when, with a convulsive 4  38     TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCE. start, he cried "It is!-am I dreaming! Good heavens it is her! my Laura!" The gaze and passionate ejaculations of Morton, materially assisted in restoring Laura to consciousness. "Henry ; mv dear H enry! is it, Mr. Morton, is it you? Where am I?" she continued, embarrassed and blushing at finding herself in jhis arms. "What means this?" Henry himself seemed to feel the awkwardness of his situ- ation, as he instantly placed her in a chair, yet still support- ing her. "-- tIold him!'" cried Laura with a shudder, as the late frightful scene again flashed thlrough her brain. "Be calm, my dear Miss Rattleton," inteCrposed Morton. "You are safe--quite safe." "Thank heaven!" replied Laura devoutly. "And to your opportune arrival, I am indebted fol' lmy rescue? Mr. Mor- ton," she added, tremblingly, "it is unnecessary to thank you; you have saved my life : a service that demands no ver- bose acknowledgments; yet how you lappened here' at this moment I cannot divine." "The whim of a traveller, or perhaps the guidance of Pro- vidlnce," he replied. "But the tale is too long for you now. What of your fellow travellers .1" '( Yes! yes!" cried Laura, "I must be still dreaming. Oh Charles! Lucy! Go! Mr.   " "Hush thy cries, my queen:y sister," cried the gay voice of Charles Rattleton, entering at that moment, and affection- ately embracing her. "It was an uglv affair; but God be praised, you are safe-all, safe and sound," he continued, as her anxious and inquiring glance met his eye. And your gallant deliverer, where is he?" he asked, as Morton offered his hand. "Ah I Morton! Henry Morton! is it you? Now,   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     39 by all that's strange, what fairy cave is this we are in! And -Mr. Dighton, too!" he exclaimed, as that gentlemlan advanced to greet him; "Dighton! my gallant bandit hero! ' Angels and ministers of grace defend us.' Alston! look out and see if the mountain is safe! But Mr. Alston, also, at that mo- ment extending the hand of old acquaintance to Dighton, his surprise was comlnllete, and lhe sank exhl;usted upon a chair. It is needless to depict the surprise of all, and the glad greet' inigs and explanations that were exchanged. All save Lucy seemed happy; she alone was a stranger to all, and in the general astonishment, was overlooked by all, except Mr. Al- ston, who presented her to the new members of the corps. Charles was in his gayest humour. "Egad!" he cried, " 'All's well that ends well.' I would encounter a worse adventure every night, for such a d6noue- Inent. It would delight the heart of Sir Walter himself Were he here, he would soon concoct for us the ' Legend of the Curr-ahee.' " The ev'ening passed gaily on--even Lucy appeared delight- ed, seated between Mr. Alston and Mr. Moreton, with Laura in the ilnmediate vicinity. Laura never looked more beauti- ful, and Dighton never displayXed to better effect his singular and brilliant powers of p)leasing. But the time fled. "'All that's bright nmust fade,' and this merry night must close," said C:arles, rising to seek his couch. '"Ladies fair, and gentles all, I give you good nigoht." All soon left the room but Dighton. Standing again, with his hand upon the door latch--" 'Tis strange," he mused, "but a few hours ago, at this very spot, I was wishing for ad-. venture; and now I lhave it, 'anl of the very nature I would have selected. D--  n my luck  Why was I not first at her saddle bow? She is beautifill! Let me see: the will! I'll soon have it: then that old boar, Sir Richard, out of the    40    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. way, she'll act 'my lady' well at 'Conway Hall.' No, no, Morton: play with some other than Alfred Dighton!" CHAPTER VIII. "COURAGE! one bold step, and the feat is accomplished,-- the ledge is firm,--fear not,-now!" With a gossamer bound, and grasping the extended hand of her cavalier servante, Lucy Staughton sprapg over the in- telrvening chasm, and stood by Alston's side, on a wild pro- jection of Currahee, but a little below the summit of the mountain. "Bravely done!" cried he. "Anne of Geierstein, on the mist-enveloped peaks of her own wild Switzerland, might proudly call thee ' cousin.' " "It was but a step," said Lucy. "Your eulogium betrays the flatterer. Have you forgotten my Foolish terror at last nighlt's alarm?"-pointing, smilingly, to the rough parapet which they had traversed, at so much cost, the previous day, and which now dwindled to a mere path, as seen a thousand feet below them. "I was too much alarmed myself," replied Alston, his eye turning to his lovely companion---" to forget it so quickly. Yet you must not ascribe your alarm to want of courage ; it was but the effect of sudden and startling surprise, upon an already excited mind. Your cool, prompt, and deliberate feat, of the past moment, bespeaks you possessed of the tried metal of heroism. Besides, was it not your cry that brought such opportune aid to Miss Rattleton, and thus saved the life of your friend a?,   *I IF     TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCO.     41 The gentle girl shuddered at the thought of Laura's narrow escape. "I care not, though all the world- though you, Mr. Alston, think my fears weak and silly, if they have. proved of service to any otle, but most of all to my own Laura. Oh! if I should lose her, my last joy would have fled. Oh, then indeed! ' the worm, the canker, and the grief,' would alone be mine,"--and as thoughts, bitter thou ghlts of the past rush- ed in, they forced asunder the flood gates of feelinfg, and Lucy sobbed aloud. Alston stood in silent symlpathy. In his own heart were kindred springs, that taught him well the intensi- ty of griefs, that could wrest such a display from the bosom of the self-governed a:.d stronr-minded Lucy. He knew the stern and heroic control she must have exercised in so long and so unremittingly restraining their force. He had won- dered much that such stoicism of mind could dwell with such passionate fervency of soul; and that either could inhabit a form  so firagile, that it minghit cry the mercy of the north wind's blast with the treinbling reed. Sternly resolute as was his own mind, and calm as lie always appeared in outward demeanour, he had firom bitter experience learned that there are moments when the heart spurns controli and must either find relief in expression, or break. He knew that courtly con- solation was but a mockery at such moments; he ventured no soothing word, but when the current of her sorro)w grew calmer, he gentlv raised her head, and with a mute elo quence of look and gesture, pointed to the lovely sceie around them -to the varied sky, with its myriad charms--to the spark- ling earth, with its countless beauties. Lucy felt the force of the appeal; to her, it was the " still small voice " that never spoke unlleeded. She hastily wiDed the tears from hler eyes, and with much of her wonted calm- ness replied, "I offer no apology, Mr. Alston, for my emotion. Why it was, I know not; but .a moment since, memory seem '4*    42    ---TALLULAHE; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. ed to reveal, in one glaring, overpowering mass, every remin- iscence of my past life: the cup was too bitter; if you knew how many causes I have for sorrow, you would pardon me. Oh! the 'dark valley of the shadow of death,' sometimes ap- pears to me a paradise, compared with this cold, delusive and jovyless world. I have lived to see my friends fall and die around mee; I have seen bubbles of happiness beautifully rise, and-burst; I have witnessed, felt-hope after hope decay, until now, hope and fear, too, are dead!" "I respect your grief, my dear Miss Staughton," answered her companion; ;" through the communications of your friends, I am not utterly ignorant of your history, and I know how hard a task it is, to ' Tinge the cheek with a warm sunny smile, While the cold heart to ruin runs darkly the while.' / But try, nerve your heart to one more struggle: you will yet be happy. We must not murmur at God's providence, even though it prove a noisome pill. You have still ardent, devo- ted friends; you have much to enjoy-shake off these sad forebodings: ' Can the noble mind forever brood, The willing victim of a fitful mood I' Oh! look not mournfully into the past, it comes not back again,' but gaze abroad on the fair face of nature ; all things die, certainly, and our friends and ourselves die too, but it is an inscrutable law of nature ; nothing is stable ; we must not expect it; it is folly, rank folly to do so. Cast your eye on the matchless loveliness of the scene before you. Look at this noble pile, with its verdant garb of mountain trees watch the grace of the undulating motion that, like the ocean's waves, sweeps o'er the extended forest below-scan the antic gambols of those swiftly passing and prism-hued clouds. See in every thing, the hand of an all-controlling, all-   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.      43 protecting power, plain and palpable as the finger upon the wall in the ancient palace of Babylon. Is there not sufficient to rebuke futile repining and ungrateful murmuring?" Alston's eloquent appeal won ready sympathy from Lucy; it operated like a charm; the sweet smile again played upon her lips, as she said, " they call me a silly; enthusiastic admi- rer of nature, but I must resign the palm to you, Mr. Alston. You speak, though, with no more ardour than truth. I can, I do enjoy her sweet attractions; to me She speaks A various language, for my gayer hours She has a voice of gladness and a smile And eloquence of beauty ; and she glides Into my darker musings with a mild And gentle sympathy that steals away Their sharpness, ere I am aware.' My chief pleasure arises from the contemplation of nature, in some form -or other, and in every thing there is some- thing to admire; but on-a morning like this, and in such a fairy scene, I wonder that I could have been unhappy for a moment. I feel," continued Lucy, as her heart warmed and her cheek glowed with the interest of her theme, "I feel at this sunny moment, that mere life is a luxury. I can sing with the bard- ' Blest power of sunshine, genial day, What balm, what life is in thy ray; To feel thee is such real bliss, That had the world no joy but this, To sit in sunshine, calm and sweet- It were a world too exquisite, For man to leave it for the gloom, The dark, cold shadow of the tomb.'" I fear," said Alston smiling, "I must restore you the palm you so flatteringly yielded me but now; yet this brilliant   "    TALLULAH ; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. panorama deserves all your admiration. This delicious moun- tain air makes one feel like a certain pretty writer, who, whllen alluding to the saying of the king of M;.cedon, 'that were lie not Alexander, he would wish to be Diogenes!' so (says the writer) 'I, when feasting upon this aerial beverage, which is like swallowing so much vitality, am tempted to ejaculate, were I not a man, I would wish to be a chameleon!"' "A h ippy thoiought," lauglled Lucy; " and surely if that same old cynic, Diogenes, were here, he would think so too, and leave his tub to growl a note of assent to the sentiment!" "If he did not," said Alston, " it would be vain to put him in Eden, for he would still be Diogenes, even there. But here comes Miss Laura and her train, seeking us, I suppose, to make the promised visit to the witch's hut." "' The witch's hut,' cried Laura, arriving at that instant, and repeating Alston's last words. "' How can you be so bar- barous, Mr. Alston! I thought you had more poetry about you: come; gentlemen, mend his rhetoric!" "Perhaps Miss Rattleton would prefer the ' Sibyl's Cave,'" said Morton. "Or   the 'Fairy's Grotto,' or 'Ariel's Bower,'" added Digoiton. "Admirable, gentlemen!" answered Laura; " and vou, Mr. Dighton, by way of reward, shall have vour fate read last-a species of valedictory-taking lonour, you -know. But what were you and Mr. Alston talking about, my dear Lucy, that you were laughing so merrily when we came up?  I feared that when two such grave personages fell together, you would concoct a declaration of eternal war, with such firivolous things as smiles and mirth, if not actually weep yourselves, like poor Niobe of old, into griln marblle!" At this moment, doubling a  projecting rock, the party -reached the rude, half-hidden entrance of a little hut, formed ri   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.      45 partly of the mountain rock, and perfected by means of a few rough logs and branches. This retreat had been long occu- pied by an eccentric old woman, Wiho made some pretensions to the cabalistic art; and though the credulity of her visitors afforded her little support, the humour and amusement that the call promised brought not a few to her shrine. This morning had been selected by outi party for a visit to the oracle. Charles' was not among them, having, either from real or feigned indisposition, begged permission to remain beliind. They were standing at the portal, hesitating to enter, when they were startled by a voice from within, inviting them, in verse, to approach- "Timid mortals! why dost wait? Enter now and learn your fate;. Under this magic roof dwell I, Sycorax, of the searching eye! The hidden book 'tis mine to scan, And trace the destinies of man. Mortals! now no longer wait, Boldly come and read your fate!" "Heyday!" cried Dighton, "what means this?    Are-we on enchanted ground, or are we again in the chivalric days of palmer, minstrel, and  troubadour?  Truly, this promises something! let us in and view this improvisatrice." 'Some good-natured rhymer, I suppose," said Alston, as they were entering the cave, " has furnishhed the old sybil with appropriate verses for her incantations." By this time they were crowded in the narrow limits of the hut. It was a dreary, smoke-blackened apartment, but dinmly lighted and guiltless of furllniture, save a large rock rising in the centre, which served the double purpose of a ta- ble, and to partition the sanctum of the crone from the visitor's division. It had also a few lesser rocks, which answered' in   "    TALLULAH; OR 'THE TRYSTING ROCK. lieu of better, as seats. ' At the moment the group made their debut, ther e stood in the "inner temple,"--in the " holy of holies,"--a woman, somewhat advanced in years, dressed in coarse tattered garments, her head ornamented wilh a black turban, fantastically folded. "-nd in such a manner as nearly to hide her features firom the view of the visitors. She was leaning upon the rock, app)arently unconscious of their pre- sence.  Suffering an interval to elapse, they found, it was ex- pected, they should propose their business, and Dirhlton step- ping forward, thus addressed her: "F;ir dame! ellmpress of the magic wand, and gifted expositor of the unknown sccll of human destiny, we humbly comne, curious mortals, to learn from  thine immaculate-wisdom, the current of our future fate! Open thou those coral portals of prescience and speak, my Delphos!" lie continued, gracefully approaching a silver coin to her hand. The sibyl seemed for an instant to unite in the smile and titter that stole through the group at Dighton's n magniloqulent address, but assuming again a stern expression, she waved the speaker to his seat, and glancing at Lucy, spoke-- "Cease thy bold voice, poor son of earth; This shrine's too sacred for thy mirth: If thou thy destiny would learn, At present to thy seat return; Await thy time,--for fitst I'd view Her, of the eye, so mild and blue!" This second sally of the dame excited the curiosity even of Alston, and in the whole scene there was something so sin- gular, that the general mirth had given place to deep and silent curiosity; so much so, that Lucy really trenmbled as Al- ston led her forward to the altar; and her colour fled, as her delicate fingers rested in the muscular grasp of the crone. With the coin that he placed in her hand, she made sun-   iTALLULAEI; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.      47 dry mystic evolutions, and glancing at the delicately blue veins, with a solemn air, spoke, or rather chaunted, in an un- earthly tone- "Daughter of a foreign land, Tempest-tossed upon our strand; Dreary and sad thy fate has been, Many a sorrow hast thou seen; The one, thy young heart fondly lov'd, From thy affection long has roved; Yet, gentle one, cease to repine, Peace and joy shall yet be thine; Thy curlent's course now ting'd with wo, Shall yet be chang'd in gladsome flow!" Waving her lrand, Lucy returned mechanically to her seat, pallid with surprise, fear, and a hundred thoughts at th, strange manner and wonderful knowledge of the woman. So intense was the universal interest, that as she again spoke, -- Now, at the shrine I fain would see, Tle queen of the black and sparkling e'e!" Laura, supported by Dighton, moved silently forward as un- der the influence of a spell. Receiving the silver, and gesticulating as before, she con- tinued- "Maiden of our sunny land, In the clear veins of thy hand, I see a stream, like crystal flow, That speaks a life unting'd by wo; With danger twice, thou'st been in strife, Yet gallant arms have saved thy life; Yet when they warded off the blow- Fair maiden! thou hast yet to know, That though grim death then lost his mark, A subtler weapon reach'd thy heart: For the kind glance of that bright eye, ' Pal'mon and Arcite' yet shall sigh ; But he who'll, happy, gain the prize, Shall own his birth 'neath Britain's skies."   48     TALLULAH ; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. As she ceased, Laura rested heavily and with a visible tre- mour upon her companion's arm. Dighton's countenance chbanged from his look of astonishment to a bright expression of gratification, and as the old dame motioned him away, he bowed low, with an involuntary reverence, and silently with- drew. Beckoning to Alston, who moved up, she resumed her chaunt-- {From Albion's land, thou com'st, I trow, With fair green laurels on thy brow; Thy proud mien shows a manly heart; Yet 'neath it lies love's rankling dart: It's been thy lot, in thy short day, Through many chequer'd scenes to stray; Yet, courage, sir! if Fate speaks true, A bright boon yet awaiteth you!" She paused. While the same breathless interest prevailed --increasing, even, if possible-Alston, obeying the motion of the wand, retired, and  Henry Morton  stood at the rocky shrine. Her words to him were birief; but uttered in a tone of greater mysterv- "Trac'd upon this palm I see Strange mysteries yet awaiting thee; Their nature, sir, forbear to seek, Brief time slall soon more plainly speak." Henry retired, as Dighton, half anxious and half fearful, confionted the strange being.  She gazed sternly and appal- lingly upon him.  He trembled as if fearful of the nature and extent of her revelations. She spoke- Man I thou playst a dangerous part I I see deceit within thy heart; Mend thy course, or if Fate speaks true, The d--.-1 soon shall have his due!" Dighton started, and stood for an instant as though petri-   ;!'Jrd      TALLULAXt; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     49 fied! All the party involuntarily rose, when the sibyl, eleva- ting her voice, and tossing her arms wildly around, shrieked,- "No longer stay I Awav! Away!" "What means this infernal farce?" cried Dighton, seizing hold of her robe, as she was hurrying from the scene. In his grasp, the dress and turban gave way-a mask fell froln the face-and before the astonished group stood, convulsed with slaughter, the figure of- CHARLES RATTLETON! CHAPTER   IX. THE brief interval of silent astonishment produced by the unexpected apparition of Charles, was followed by a burst of merriment, not unworthy of Jove's laughter-loving court, on the mirth-echoing heights of Olympus. His appearance needslit- tle explanation.  Iis happy humour had suggested the little divertisement, while the party on the previous night were planning a visit, to the mountain and hut as the morrow's pastime. Ever ready for any exploit that promised amuse- ment, his fertile fancy quickly revolved the design, which an equally ready talent enabled him so happily to execute. As the occupant of the hut was absent at the time from the vi- cinity, he had no difficulty in the accomplishment of his freak. Feigning illness, and prevailing upon his friends to leave him behind-the most difficult part of the task--no sooner had they gone, than following the landlord over an- other course, he reached the hut, installed himself in his new character, and found time "His spells and vessels to provide, His charms and every thing beside," 5   60    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. long before the tardy progress of the others had accomplish- ed the walk. We have seen how successfully he acquitted himself. But he had effected more than he intended, or was even then aware of, so strangely had some portions of his pre- dictions tallied with truth. He did not anticipate so serious a reception of his joke. Dighton still regarded him with a half offended and suspicious air, as Charles exclaimed-- "What, Dighton! displeased? knowing your love of such pranks, I thought to have gratified you more than aty. You did not like my very flattering predictions? Come, come, mere badinage, my dear sir; I did it but to give effect to the scene-a little meat-axe rhetoric, I thought, would sprin- kle it with that precious spicy seasoning, yclept variety, and give an orthodox--flash-crash-thunder-and-lightning finish to it; and then your irreverent address to so Paugust a tribu- nal! I own I cherished a little malice prepense, but you have seen too much of the world to take umbrage at such innocent spite. Votre pardon, mon ami p? "Willingly granted," returned Dighton, evidently feeling the necessity of appearing gay and unconcerned. "I acknow- edge that your great partiality a little disconcerted me. I am jealous of any impeachment of my reputation even in jest. I was a fool, though, to feel so," he continued, regain- ing his usual hilarity, and relishing the joke in spite of him- self, "'pon my soul you managed it well; one would have supposed you had been a connoisseur in ' poisoned entrails,' and all the nondescript contents of witches' cauldrons, all your life!" "A veritable Meg Merriles," added Laura; " but what says the lovely Sycorax of her own destiny? Come, brother ; a few more lines a la broomstick." "Nay, sister; don't you know that the physician relishes not his own nostrums, or the cook, even, his savoury dishes; 5 %/   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROC(K.      51 it is so through life, from the kitchen up. Yet to gratify you0, I'll e'en endeavour to rehearse My destiny in gentle verse; Turning the page of Fate, I view, A silken thread of golden hue- The ' thread of life '-a long, clear line Untangled on the spool of Time. "Ah! ah!" said Laura, as Charle. paused, " spur on your Pegasus, brother, and read the rest. That spool of untangled thread I suppose is the emblem of your past happy life, and you are'alarmed at some unlooked for knot: a love-knot, no doubt. You are to be caught at last; nothing but that would daunt you, I know. Confess that the prospect is ob- Scure." "Very," rejoined Charles, peering anxiously into his hand. "I may say very obscure. I can scarcely make out the rest, but I see something about, happy dog . . . thread twirling off the spool . .  .fair hearts breaking . .. passing -un- scathed . .. never told their loves . . . sighing in vain . . . Ah! the last two lines are plain enough; perhaps they may furnish some clue. Listen, Didall fair hearts, one huge heart make, In sighs for thee, 'twould vainly break l" All admired Charles's ingenious concatenation of ideas, yet expressed some misgivincs ais to the truth of his reading. He was proceeding to show how utterly impossible it would be for any unlucky love-knot to turn up in his destiny, as the party arrived at a little spring, near which, to their agreeable surpiise, a light banquet was spread, in compliance with in- structions, which  Dighton's forethought had suggested.- Charles was in high glee at the success of his plot, and though it left a deep impression upon each, all, for the present, min-   52     TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. gled in the festivity. The inn had afforded but a humble repast, yet the cilcurnstances made it welcome ; we must not pause to relate all the pretty compliments that circled around: the courtly and sparkling speeches of Dighton ; the mild and eloquent remarks of Alston; the expressions of pleasure and gratitude on the part of Lucy ; or even the humorous drafts which Charles made upon his muse, to enliven the hour. All seemed merry except Morton, and lie, perhaps, was still mu. sing upon the scene at the cave. It was nearly night ere they were again en route home- ward. "Mr. Morton," said Laura, rallying him   upon his moody depression of spirits, as they found themselves alone, "You do injustice to our merry company, and the sweet smiles of dame Nature, by your sad humour. Look! Look!" she continued, as the picturesque form of a hunter, springing upon a rock below thenm, and sending the echoes of his bugle far and near, added a new and beautiful feature to the land- scape.  "Pray, what dire mischief aie you plotting, or what heinous sins are gnawing your conscience, that you look so wo-begone at such a time as this? I fear I must summons the rattling spirits of the gay Mr. Digrhton to aid me in amu- sinJg you." "I crave pardon, Miss Rattleton. If I seem sad, my looks belie my heart. I  assure you I appreciate the charms around me; perhaps the more, that I say the less; and the society is that I would have selected fromn all the world. I am a sad castle-builder, and moments like this, with kind friends near, to whom we may look with confidence for sympathy, conjure up a thousand scenes of felicity, Utopian Edens, whose very transparency betrays their emptiness, and produces a chillness of feeling, whlen contrasted with the earthly, alloyed enjoy- ments, that all our past experience, and the history of all mankind, tell us, we must alone expect. You must not   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     53 though, take me for a dull dreamer; my temperament is naturally happy and buoyant, disposed to look upon life as a sweet parterre, and to extract the honey alone frorm its flow- ers. I imagine that, under certain circumstances, no one would enjoy life more than I. Yet my fate has been a changeful one; my early history and my birth even unknown to me; an orphan, and though blessed with one who has well performed a parent's part, yet I have never known a mother's or a sister's love, or met with one, in whom I could repose confidence and claim sympathy in return. The sweets of true social intercourse and friendly love, I have ever thought the only blessings really worth living for. I have dwelt- much ill the gay world, and call hundreds, friend, in the vul- gar meaning of the title; yet have I felt utterly alone, and wanting that bosom friend, even of my own sex, there must ever be a blank, a chaos that robs life of half its attractions and embitters the few that remain." Laura felt half disposed to laugh at Morton's unlooked-for speech, but his serious tone checked her humour. "Tlhe pleasures we most desire," she rejoined, "if granted, might prove the sources of the keenest misery. Perhaps you are fortunate, Mr. Morton, in not having met such a b,:ing.  How could you support the loss, to which you would be hourly liable? how would your heart bear the anguish of misplaced confidence? how could you -brook coldness and ingratitude, where you expected affection and truth, and such is too often the only return for generous confidence ; and were your se- lection to fall upon one of my own sex, the consequences might be still greater," she added, smilingly. ' "Most certainly, Miss Laura, with increased means and capabilities of enjoyment, our exposures to disappointment and pain are augmented; but would you have one grow up in ignorance, because an enlightened and cultivated intellect 5*   54    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. may awaken aspirations and desires that can never be real- ized; because what we learn may produce misery, in teach- ing us how little, after all, we can know? Would you forego the attractions of the rose, in base dread of its thorns? Would!you be like the wretch, who rather than fear a hell, ' would lie down and die, body and soul, as the brute?" "You misunderstand me," replied Laura; "I advanced no such ignoble thought. I have been taught that a wise and beneficent Providence controls all for our good, and if we have no friends, why should we not remember that it is bet- ter to want them, than that the heart should be wounded in X finding those false, whom we had loved as true? So much  i for friendship-now for love, and simply, is it not better not to love, than to love vainly? You remember Cowley's fa- miliar lines," she continued, her gay humour getting tired of grave argument-                       . ' A mighty pain to love it is, and 'tis a pain that pain to miss, \ But of all pains, the greatest pain, is to love and love in vain."' \ "Yet," said Morton, in the same earnest tone, " who would forego the joys springing from a pure attachment? Who would calmly resolve never to love, firom the fear that hs affection might gain no return? No! It is a redeeming, trait in our nature, that the vilest, that all; have at times visions of some bright object, for whom they feel the heart, with all its callous searings, can still find springs of ardent love, of generous affection; an affection that would endear its object even more than their own  selfish selves. What is life, but for reciprocated love? What emotion incites so powerfully to noble and Herculean deeds? What will so triumphantly ride down all opposition in the accomplishment of its ends?  Campbell beautifully describes the forlorn condition of Eden even-unblest with social companionship."    TALLULAH ; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.    55 "And Burns," said Laura, " has taken up the same theme, in his couplet-- * What signifies the life o' man, An 't were na for the lasses O I' What poet indeed has not sung such a song? But really, Mr. Morton, one would take you for an envoy-extraordinary, from the court of Cupid, you enter so diplomatically, and discourse so earnestly, upon the dangerous matters of love. No one can talk as you do, and be heart-whole. You need my assistance in something-Lucy, perhaps; I hope mv poor cousin has not infringed the eighth command at your ex- pense.  Alas! she is one of those unfortunate beings, 'who, meaning no mischief, do it all.' Well as I know Lucy, I can- -not account for the interest she seemed to feel in you, almost intuitively, on our first meeting, and which has not decreased by any means since.  Your own voice, too, always falls in its cadence, and your smiles, so rare, are called into play, when with her.  Really! what with Mr. Morton and Mr. Alston, I shall tremble for my own claim upon Lucy. How is it, Mr. Morton? you look at this moment just as I should imagine Hinda to have appeared upon the banks of 'Oman's green water,' singing, ' How sweetly does the moon. beam smile, to- night upon yon leafy isle.' " "You are not mistaken," rejoined Henry, ' in regard to my admiration of Miss Staughton. From the first moment of our meeting, she won my esteem, my love indeed; but only as a brother might regard a sister. She can never be to me that one idolized object. of whom I have dreamed from ear- liest years, as the-chiefjoy of life. Did I wish it otherwise, I feel myself greatly unworthy the pure love of such a being. You may imagine my fancies, Miss Laura, visionary, perhaps silly, yet while unrealized I cannot be happy." "Indeed, sir," returned Laura, " so far from thinking such   56 B   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. feelings beneath or unworthy manly dignity, I regalrd them as the noblest mark of a noble and true breast. I could not trust the man who despised such sentiments. Yet, that your dreams are too ideal I cannot but think. The little, paltry, an-  noyances of life will so obtrude and affect the most stoical, that such pictures live but in the fancy." "Say not so! my picture is not ideal, there does live such an one. If my deal Miss Rattleton will pardon my presump- tion "Their lives such an one!" reechoed Laura, archly, and with a provoking dullness, unable to restrain her habit of teasing. "Wonderful alchymist! you have discovered at last the true philosopher's stone; a moral gem, whose dazzling radiance throws an Egyptian mantle iover the golden dross and sparkling jewels of Golconda! Happy being -- " "Miss Rattleton, I beseech you, banish your raillery.- This moment I feel as one of the most interesting of my life. My happiness hangs upon your words! Forgive me if  "  "Hangs upon my words!-Forgive you!-what? I as- sure you, you may command my warmest influence, though indeed you overrate'it. Lucy --" "I implore you for a moment's serious hearing. From the first day of our acquaintance, I --" "I saw it, sir," rejoined Laura. "You have before ac-   ! knowledged it; you may depend upon my aid, though I can- not promise success. Lucy is indeed a gem, but many have sought her in vain. I shall almost worship him who is able to win the prize. But see! see!" she exclaiimed, as the call of the bugle again startled them, and a noble deer stood for an instant upon a distant eminence, and then as suddenly plunged into the forest. Morton's eyes followed hers for a X   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     5 7 moment, when, with a passionate air, he was again about to speak, as Dighton joined them. "A noble sight, Miss Rattleton," said lie; and turning to Henry, who stood half embarrassed, mortified and angry at his intrusion-' You appear to take great interest in the sport, my dear Morton. The game was bravely followed, yet as bravely baffled the pursuers." Henry was replying, as Lucy and Alston drew near. Charles had been rallying them, upon the sibyl's predictions to- them of happiness, and at that moment glanced from one to the other, with so significant a look, that a new light seenled to break upon the mind of Lucy. Never, until this moment, had it occurred to her, that her undisguised interest in Mr. Alston's society, might give just grounds for erroneous conclusions in the minds of her friends, and perhaps in the noble bosom of Alston himself. An expression of pain, almost of conscious guilt, appeared in her countenance, with the reflection, how futile such expectations must be. It van- ished, however, almost in the same minute, as she again thought of the little probability or even possibility of her- even did she desire it-awakening any sentiment, other than kind friendship, in his heart. Her conduct though still smote her, and she looked anxiously round, as if for the means of at once atoning for her error. Charles's quick eye caught and interpreted the glance, and he hastened to her relief. 1"Mor- ton," he cried, in a humourous tone, '( Miss Staughton is enamoured of yonder plant. Look! upon that narrow ledge above us!  She speaks you capable of chivalrous and gallant deeds; quick!-prove her boast-lay the floweret at the lady's feet-and T, as sovereign umpire, bestow upon you her fair hand for the rest of our homeward walk. It will be at Al- ston's expense, to be sure, but I have a wish for his society myself. Stop, gentlemen!" he added, as the others were   58    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. following Henry up the craggy ascent, "Mr. Morton is the chosen knight." He quickly gained the dangerous height, and was leaning over to grasp the plant, as a miniature fell from his bosom, and hung suspended for a moment, ere he hastily replaced it. "You see, Miss Rattleton," said Diglton, "my friend has not done gallant deeds for naught. Could vou but see the original of that sweet fair one; England holds not a prettier, or a nobler."               / "What!" cried Laura, with surprise--"What mean you, sir?"                           E "What mean I?"Miss Rattleton. "What a question I What but a well merited tribute to my friend's prowess. Why! 'tis but one of many, and yet I think it the most valued. Faith! I fear the poor fellow has paid a heavy price for the trinket. Many though envy him, and I hope he will yet be the happiest of the happy. While in England, had lhe not been my friend, Henry Morton, I should have envied him the admiration he every where gained. But hap- pily he is blest with a goodly share of inconstancy--a valua- ble trait in a gentleman's character. Miss Rattleton-he is very susceptible, but his love affairs are soon over; all siohs, ardour and everlasting love to-day, and heart-whole to-mor- row." And thus Dighton ran on, in his malicious, yet appa- rently frank and flattering encomiums upon his fi'iend's merits, ; and secretly enjoying Laura's surprise, embarrassment and pain. She herself seemed half to regret her late bantering, and half to congratulate herself upon it. The flower was in 1 Morton's hand.  A third blast of the bugle, now very near,  startled them.  he had but half recovered his upright posi-  tion, and trembled so much that the ladies shrieked with fear. The ledge upon which he-was standing, was a narrow ei ridge rising almost vertically from the point where they stood, 3   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     59 and extending to an indefinite distance, until it gradually widened, sunk, and fell into the general level of the moun- tain, on either side. At the sound of the bugle, the form of a deer was seen bounding precipitously along the narrow parapet; the cries of the pursuit and the shrieks of the ladies urged him on, with blinded and maddened speed; Morton was unnoticed-the bodies met-the ledge was clear-and rolling down the precipice, Henry fell, with the struggling deer, at the feet of the frightened Lucy. "Thank God!" she cried, leaning over him, "he still breathes." And before any could help, her unaided strength had dragged the adventurous youth apart from the animal. The poor girl blamed herself as the cause of all the mischief, and bewailed her unhappy lot, as one of pain to herself and misfortune to all who loved her. As Laura and the others hastened to the spot, Dighton put them aside, and begged Charles to take charge of the ladies, while he succoured his friend. He soon relieved their fears, by informing them that Henryv had sustained no material injury, save some slight fractures, and that he would probably be well again in a few days. A litter was quickly provided and borne by the hunt- ers, who had now come up in pursuit of their prey. They soon reached the inn with saddened hearts. Dighton's anx. ious care of his friend won the thanks and applause of all. He watched incessantly by his side, except when relieved by Lucy, -for he would permit no other assistance. Lucy was glad in the charge, for she still called herself the unhappy cause of the accident; but had the circumstances been very different, and had he been any other, no kinder, or more willing nurse, could have been found. Where sickness and distress called for succour, Lucy was to be seen. In travel- ling, her generous bounty won " blessings on her sweet face" from the lips of the roving mendicant; and at home, she was   60    iTALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. the first in every object of mercy and charity. More often seen in the humble cottage, than the lighted hall; more hap- py in the poor boy's grateful smile, than in the gay courtier's honied-flatterings. Though times of intense excitement ruf- fled the calm resignation of her spirit, and called forth a moment's involuntally complaint, she lived not for herself. Her life knew no selfish thoughlts, or provisions for her own pleasure, but she made the joys of others her sole end and study. She bad felt the truth of the verse'-" to bless, is to be blest," and had gleamed the whitest star, in many of those humble scenes of unobtrusive benevolence, of which the poet speaks, in those pretty lines, "Angels, when merey's mandate wing'd their flight, Had stopt to dwell with pleasure on the sight!" CHAPTER   X. . HENRY MORTON'S misfortune cast a   gloom over our tra- vellers, which Charles's best efforts failed to dispel : they sepla- rated in consequence, for the night, at a very early hour. Dighton remained as nurse and physician to the invalid. How   widely different were the feelings of each to the blithe and careless hearts with which they began the day! In the rude boudoir of the ladies, the usual reminiscences and playful remarks upon the day's incidents were exchanged for a thoughtful silence. In Lucy's mind, Alston was uppermost. The thought that for the first time occurred to her upon the mountain, again obtruded. Fascinated with Mr. Alston's engaging society, and thrown off her guard, by the gentle. manly ease--the unobtrusive and apparently undesigned manner, in which he had offered his attentions,--she had, un-   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     61 thinkingly, treated him with as much confidence as she would have shown to a very old friend, or even a brother. In re- viewing her conduct, the reflection, that she had inconside- rately given ground for hopes, that could not possibly be realized, disturbed her tranquillity. She felt that she must meet him with less cordiality and warmth than before; and her gentle heart was pained by the necessity; and searching more deeply, she was, for an instant, conscious of a more self- ' ish sorrow in the denial. The discovery surprised her. That Alston had gained more of her regard than it had been the good forltune of any to obtain, she readily acknowledged. Yet it was not love; such a thought she quickly repelled, while, at the same time, she felt that years had fled since any event had possessed the power to affect her, as would the loss of his society and sympathy. A little reflection upon by-gone incidents, which had before escaped her notice, told her that both Laura and her brother would be highly gratified by his alliance; and how would they regard her indifference, when every thing pleaded so eloquently in his favour? She, her- self, could not find a single fault upon which to ground an objection; although  regarded in every way as a sister by both, she could not at such moments avoid feeling herself be- holden to their bounty for her support, and what would they think of her, when she refused so strangely to relieve them of the burthen? She, herself, felt abundant apology, but could they understand and appreciate her motives? She had given Pembroke the treasure of an all-absorbing, an only love; and she conceived not how the heart, once engaged, could ever feel a second passion; she-regarded such a thing as contrary to the emotions of a pure soul-indeed, as almost unnatural and criminal. She accused herself of faithlessness, and ex- lerienced a feeling of self-contempt, that she had suffered thoughts of Alston to affect her in any way, or to find place 6[   62    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. at all in her mind. The image of Pembroke was ever before her-her whole heart was his, must be his-and the bare idea of bestowing her hand upon another, drew a shudder from the sensitive girl. Old chords had been retouched in her bosom since her meeting with Alston, and more particularly during her late conversation upon the mountain. She sometimes fancied she detected a singular resemblance in Mr. A. to her lost Arthur. On the occasion in question, as she listened to his noble sen- timents and eloquent language, the memory of her lover was recalled with singular vividness, and that strange vague sup- position, that the occurrences of the passing moment are but a repetition of previously enacted scenes, when, where or how, unknown to us,-troubled her. Alston himself seemed to have divined her thoughts. "Forgive me, Miss Stalghton," he had said, "' if I read the images now passing your mind, and in so doing awaken sad recollections of past scenes,--so long gone by, however, that I hope they bring with them, not the acute pang of yesterday's grief, but only the mellowed and pleasingly-sad effects of long-passed sorrows. I told you your friends had related to me some incidents of vour life. You will be surprised to find an adventure of Inine, remotely associated with yourself. I will relate it, as it may dispel some little wonder, which I fancy you manifest, when your eye sometimes meets my  own ;-a wonder arising from a cause that I presume has operated not a little in gaining me those marks of your esteem and friendship with which I have been honoured.  While in Spain,some years ago, circum-  stances added a new and valued name to my list of friends. The acquaintance arose principally fi'om a striking resein- blance of feature and person, between the gentleman and myself, and was afterwards cemented by kindred minds and  i tastes. This friend was-Arthur Pembroke. He was return-   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     63 ing from America, with no positive destination, and happen- ing in Spain, during the civil contentions that have so re- cently distracted that unhappy country, he paused in his route and entered the army of the Infarta. He was rapidly distinguishing himself in the service when we first met. Our acquaintance was short, as in an engagement between the queen's troops and the Carlists, I myself was taken prisoner, and Pembroke, as I afterwards learned from a comrade, was left among the wounded upon the field. An exchange of prisoners soon released -me, and I returned to England, but not without making numerous fruitless inquiries after my friend." As Lucy recalled this narrative-if indeed it had been for a moment forgotten-many sad reviews of past scenes were conjured up, and she sought in vain for rest. Laura was not less miserable--a circumstance which Lucy, amid her own distress, failed not to notice; yet she assigned for it a cause very different from the true one. Laura, under all her show of reckless gaiety, hid deep and passionate feel- ings. To Henry Morton she yielded her first, deep love. Every hope of her life took its tone and tint from this affec- tion; yet none suspected the extent of the feeling, so com- pletely did her proud and haughty spirit disguise what she considered her weakness. From Henry even, she hid the se- cret as studiously as from others. In the wild joyousness of her heart, she had sported with his feelings in the morning, against her better judgment; but oh! in a few short hours, how bitter a reverse stung her bosom! The accidental dis- play of the miniaturie, followed by Dighton's crafty insinua- tions, awakened within her a new and fearful passion. Deep, corroding jealousy entered her breast; a feeling which was not likely to display itself tamely, in such an one as Laura   "    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. Rattleton, and which but slight cause could excite. To feel herself slighted and duped by one in whoin she had reposed all the confidence and adoration of her young heart--to find lin false-hearted and unworthy of ler love, was a reverse she had never even feared, and the blow was so unexpected, that it seemed for the time to alter her very nature. Yet she was not one to indulge in grief; neither would she suffer any one, and him least of all, to learn his power over her. Stern pride came t0oher aid, and she resolved that he should be baulked of his triumph. Passion, however, for the moment, destroyed the calmness of her judgment and the softer impul- ses of her nature. Deluded by Dighton's carelessness, and apparent sincerity of manner and kindness of purpose, she never thought of questioning the truth of his stories and the justness of her suspicions. In the madness of the moment, she thouglt with bitterness of the mutual partiality existing between Morton and Lucy; and as the poor girl tenderly in- quired the cause of her sadness, she accused her of unrene- rous treachery. Lucy knew  the secret fervency of Laura's soul, but'she was unprepared for this cruel cliarge. It sur- prised and pained. her; she rightly attributed it to over- wrought feeling and maddened excitement. She gently re. monstrated with her upon the wild folly of her charges, sooth-ed her irritated spirit, and endeavoured, when she won a recital of her story fromn Laura, to palliate the apparent faithlessness of Morton. "What! my dear Laura," she said, " can you seriously lay i such Charges at my door?  Do you know your Lucy so poor- ly, as to imagine her capable of such baseness? Oh, Laura! Do you think I want fiesh cause for sorrow? Would you break my  heart, by ttsinking me so unworthy of your love-you. to whom I owe so much, and for whom I  would make any i   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     65 sacrifice even of life itself, did I value it a hundred times as much as I do? Be calm, dearest, and recall those cruel words. I know you did not, you could not mean it." "I was mad, my Lucy," sobbed Laura, as she embraced her friend; "I was unconscious of what I said. Forgive me; oh! forgive my inconsiderate folly, and forget that I have pained you. I cannot forgive myself for an instant. Oh! Lucy, I ne ver till now knew my own heart. If he loves me not, he shall have nothing to congratulate himself upon; and if he does, he shall bitterly suffer for this alarm. Dighton shall  " "Iaush! Laura. You must curb that proud heart; be- ware what you do. Beware of Dighton.  I cannot banish Charles's facetious prediction; and I imagine more of truth than fiction in it. Did you not notice his passion at the time .'" "His emotion was natural enough, dear Lucy," replied Laura, perversely defending him, from a natural spirit of con- tradiction; for though pleased with his brilliant manners, she had as yet never bestowed a serious thought upon him. "So delicately alive as Mr. D. is to every sentiment of honour, how could he but be affected at such a charge? No, Lucy, you do him injustice. He has many merits-manly beauty, intel- ligence, and wealth. I wonder how Mr. M. would like him for a rival ."' "Well," said Lucy, perceiving how contrary an effect to that which she desired would be produced by further argu- ments on her part, " let us banish these dull thoughts until to-morrow, and now seek our pillows. Adieu, dear! no more to-night; I am l1atlf asleep already." While this conversation  was progressinog above stairs, Charles was rallying Alston upon his evident interest in Lucy. Mr. A. neither acknowledged nor rebutted the charge, ex- 6*k   a66    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. cepting in the mention he made of the certain hopelessness of his success, should he enter the lists for her favour. He dis- played neither gratification nor disappointment at her parti- ality for Morton; and Charles, after scanning his countenance closely for some time, and reading nothing, turned with a surprised and disappointed air. "Frank!" he exclaimed, I can make nothing of you! you are impenetrable as a rock. With all your apparent firankness and sympathy, you make no confidences. It is every thing, and not 'something' only that 'ye still keep,' as Burns says, 'to yersel' and scarcely tell to ony '-and as for reading your heart in your face, one might as well attempt to pick secrets from the profile of Talleyrand! You shall tell soft tales yet, though, to gentle ears. You can't hold out for- ever. Egad! I should like to see you surrender! I give you good night, Alston." As Dighton watched by the side of the sleeping invalid, he revolved with pleasure the occurrences of the day; and a gleam of malicious satisfaction disfigured his fine features, as he seemed to muse upon some unfinished plan. "All will be well," he muttered, 'if he recovers not too soon; and of that I'll take care. At any rate, he shall not in- terfere with my purpose. I have her brother's good will and influence, which will go far. The girl is proud-' maidens, like moths, are ever caught,' &c.,-I'll excite her avarice and love of pomp. If I play my cards well, a little fit of jealousy -and she's the metal for such tender emotions--will do me service.  Phillips," he added, as that worthy now entered the room, "you assisted this morning in the farce at the old wo- man's hut?" "Yes." "Look you man, did you betray me?  Said you aught to assist in the manufacture of those d----d rhymes?"   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.    67 "I said nothing," answered the man stubbornly; "I don't write poetry. What reason have I to betray you?" "True, you have no reason. I trust but little, though, in your honesty, only that I know your own best interest is to keep my counsel. Villain! If I find you treacherous, I know that which shall hang you on the highest gibbet in England!" "Umph!" growled Phillips--'"Many thanks for your kind intentions. I don't expect to be in England again shortly; so you must serve me in some other way, if you are deter- mined to place me under obligations. May it please you, I prefer the free and equal manners of the Americans to your service in England." "So I perceive," replied Dighton, repressing his anger; "you are an apt pupil in a republican school. But we need not quarrel; serve me well, and you gain the means and lib- erty of exercising your own choice in regard to your future movements. Keep your dexter eye open," he continued, toss- ing himself upon a dilapidated settee-" while I " "And," interrupted Phillips, "with your sinister one, which is always open, we shall manage to----" "Curse your republican impudence! Don't bandy your wit with me, sirrah! Watch, I say, while I make love for an hour to this vile ghost of a couch." CHAPTER XI. DIGHTON'S slumbers were interrupted by a knock at his door, followed by the entrance of the landlord and a female of advanced years, and habited in very a humble garb. "Doctor White," commenced the visitor, " isn't at home and won't be for a week; and there ain't no other doctor   68    TALLULAH,; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. no wheres near hut the woman that lives in the hut, as you went to see to-day. Dame Currahee, as we call her, has got back, and says she's willing to wait upon the sick gentle- man." "What! who?" interrupted Dighton, " the old woman? the "IThe same," returned the host, " though if she is a witch, she's a 'human ' too, and a good-hearted one as ever lived, and she's got r, ore larnin' in the physic than the doctor, for nobody else ever attends about here when she's in the way, and nobody never dies under her managementation." "And so, my good woman, you mix up drugs with spells and charms?  But what are you fiightened at?" continued Dighlton, as she started back with an ejaculation of surprise, in answer to his full gaze into her face-"I shan't swallow either you or your medicines." ' H- H"  muttered the woman, "was looking at the sick gentleman-he seems very bad ; I don't think he'll live." "Ah!" answered Dirghton, and then, as a new idea shot through his brain, "as the doctor cannot be procured, we must avail ourselves of what aid we can get. I have known many people in your mode of life singularly successfil in cur- ilg diseases. Landlord and you, Phillip)s, may leave the room.  I fear our, conversation may disturb the invalid-I will arrange matters with this good woman myself." While Dighton was speaking, the woman's face wore the same look of surprise, and her frame seemed agitated as her eyes rested upon the door that had closed upon the receding forms of the landlord and servant. Dight,n observed her emotion, inquiringiy; she gazed again at him steadily, and then cast her eyes towards the couch of the sick.       "What mean you, woman?" said Dighton, after a long : silence--" honestly, I trust-yet I like not your looks. I "   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     69 doubt the goodness of your intentions; your life shall be the forfeit of any imposition or deceit." "Sir! ame deceive? What interest have I in injuring himn ." True," returned Dighton, "you are not apt to practice your villanies without reward. Now I have no doubt rewards might be made sufficiently tempting to induce you to sacri- fice him or any one else. Ay?" "Sir!" replied the woman, a look of intelligence and cun- ning passing over her features--" reward? for what?" "4 Ah! You understand me now, I see," offering her some gold. She hesitated, but took the proffered coin. "You said just now you thought he would not live. There, yiour skill is at fault. Now, I presume, it is much the same with you as with most of your vagabond race: it matters lit- tle, so the reward be the same, whether you kill or cure ." "We are poor," answered the woman. "We need noney, and we don't hesitate at safe means to supply our wants, but the one service is dangerous, and worth more than the other. When we cure, it enlarges our business, while the other branch is unsafe, and always injures, if it doesn't ruin our chlaracter." "Plain enough," returned Dighton; "but your answer proves you awake, and no tyro in your vocation. This is quite a lucky chance. We can both serve our ends, and mutually oblige. It is to my interest that the patient be an absentee from our party for a while. Keep him on the sick bed for a few weeks; represent the necessity to the others of the com- pany ; also the need of perfect quiet, and on that account in- duce them to continue their travels at once, and rejoin your patient on their return. Accomplish this simple task, and   70    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. this purse is yours, now, and shall be doubled on my return. Do you promise?" "Yes," answered the woman promptly. "Succeed, and you shall be amply rewarded; fail, and you shall rue it dearly." Here the colloquy was interrupted by the awakening of the invalid, and Dighton left the new nurse to perform her office. "Strange, indeed," she soliloquized. "The bait has taken well. I did not think it would be so easy to entrap him. I'll ferret out this affair. There is matter of more importance than there seems to be." From this soliloquy of the nurse, the reader will gather her real character, and will not wonder that the cordial and grate- ful conduct of the patient won an unusual share of her kind attention and effort. She had suddenlyappeared at Corlra- hee, from whence, nobody knew, as she never spoke of her previous life. T'aking up her abode upon the mountain in the character of a sibyl, she was long regarded as insane, though now people merely considered her as a strange, ec- centric being, which traits were forgotten in the love that all around bore her, for many kind and neighbourly courtesies, and acts of kindness to the sick and needy. Divining Digh- ton's designs, she had adroitly drawn him out, and now de- termined to watch him narrowly, and to protect Morton from  his wiles. In keeping her promise to Dighton, she informed Henry of the probable extent of his confinement, and suggested his urging his friends to proceed, rather than selfishy detain them until it would be too late in the season to go at all.  He admitted the advice at once; more easily determined, probably, by the repulse he received from Laura on the moun-   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     71 tain. It opened his eyes to the thought that he might have been in error, in supposing he enjoyed any particular place in her regard: her reception of Mr. Dighton, and that gentle- man's inuendloes, sustained the idea. He resolved to learn the worst without delay, and if his fetars were realized, to make a vigorous struggle to free himself from her presence and influ- ence. Grasping a pen, he poured forth a full and passionate avowal of his attachment-implored her acceptance of his suit, and begged an instant knowledge of his fate. This the nurse entrusted to Phillips to deliver, with an injunction to fidelity, that his better genius advised him to obey. PIltilips might have been an upright and useful man, but for the force of great temptations, and the influence of stronger and vicious  minds. Circumstances bound him to Dighton, and made him a sharer in his errors; but he felt an attachment for Mor- ton, and a mixture of fear and regard for the sibyl, which warred hard with his sinful course. He was hasteningoto execute his trust, when he came suddenly upon Dighton, who observing the paper, demanded it; threatened Jack for his thoughtlessness in not submitting it to him, and despatched him with another note of no import .to Miss Rattleton, in order to obtain her writing, and that Jack might be known to have actually delivered and received * communication from her. On the servant's return, Dighton imitated Laura's "hand " with skilful exactness, in the following reply to Mor- ton's letter: "4 With Miss Rattleto)n's acknowledgment of the reception of Mr. Morton's notetof this morning, she begs to present her compliments, and to express her great surprise at the tenor of his communication. She regrets, exceedingly, that in her intercourse with Mr. M. he has so mistaken her sentiments, as to fancy any grounds for the supposition that he is regarded, or can ever be considered, by her, in any nearer relation than   72    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. is permitted by the ordinary and friendly intercourse of socie- ty. She thinks that Mr. M., upon reflection, will congratu- late himself that Miss R. is unable to reply otherwise. She trusts Mr. M. will regard this mat'er as though it were not, and that it may never again be mentioned. Miss R. feels honoured by the high compliment implied in Mr. M.'s letter, and sincerely wishes him all possible happiness. Wednesday morning. To MR. HENRY MORTON." This note determined Henry, and he seconded the request of the nurse that they should continue their travels. Lucy  opposed the plan, and endeavoured to make peace. She tried 'to effect an interview between Laura and Morton, but he de- clined it so positively that she really placed some credence in ' Laura's ground of complaint. Laura, tired of every place, was anxious and urgent to go. We return for a monment to Phillips. Stung with the ef- fect of the forged note upon his master, and irresistibly influ- enced by the admonitions of the woman, and her apparent knowledge of him and interest in h1is welfare, thoughts of his early days returned ; of the watching, prayers, and instruc- tions of his neglected and injured mother. As he ran over the actions of his life of error, and compared the actual re- wards of his vices with the blessings of a virtuous career, the hardened man wept, and mentally resolved to atone for the past, with a future of rectitude and honesty, and to begin the  change at once. But alas! he lacked the courage to go at once to Morton and confess his fault, and only wrote an ex- planation of the note from Laura, which he consigned to the sibyl for delivery.   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     73 CHAPTER XII. IN the mean time the carriages were prepared, and Laura only remained in her room, when Jack presented his note to the nurse. Being unsealed, she hastily read it, and hurried to meet Laura. 4"Beware, lady:!" she exclaimed, as she entered her pre- sence. "Trust him not! he is false!" "What know you of him .?" "Oh! much, lady!-too much-believe me-I've known him long!" "You speak strangely, woman; how and when have you known him  . And why do you suppose that I am at all in- terested a X "Trifle not, lady! He loves you not-he seeks your ruin! Yet he shall not succeed; I will protect you. Here--here!" she added hastily, as Dighton approached to conduct her to the. carrt iage- here-read-'twill explain all,"' and she thbrust Phillips's note into Laura's hand, forgetting that he himself had not read it. Seeking the first moment when alone with Lucy, which was not until the carriag(es drew up at a distance of five miles, at the lovely cascade of Toccoa, she perused the epistle. "Honoured Sir: In my life, I have been guilty of many crimes, and have# deceived yourself as well as others. I cannot forgive myself for treachery to one who has been so kind to me as you and yours have, and I humbly beg pardon and send this explana- tion, a; some atonement.  The letter I sent you was not from the lady to whom you wrote, but another. I think she loves 7   74     TALLULAH ; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. you, and that you may yet succeed. I hope it is not too late to remedy the error. Praying your forgiveness, I am your servant to command, JOHN PIIILLIPS. To Mr. Henry Morton." This note was written,' unfortunately, on the blank leaf of an old letter from Jack to his master, while in England, and bore the London post-mark.  He had torn it off hastily from a parcel of refuse MSS. to answer his present purlpose. This fact, together with the absence of date inside, and the general and ambiguous style of the writing, defeated its end. "Tis too true!" said Laura. "She said this would ex- plain, and it corroborates her statements.  He is false--as men-as the world--as hope-as every thing!    You will acknowledge now, Lucy.  Ilis own servant confesses himself guilty of crimes-in his master's service, of course. Perhaps this is only one of many similar shameful affairs. The letter he says was not from  the one he wrote to, but another! What intrigues are these? The ladies must be those he is unacquainted with--even their names,-or he. could him-iself indiv\idualize their letters; a vile libertine! O! that I ever could have loved such an one. 'He thinks,' he says, 'she loves him, and hle may yet succeed.' Monster!" Lucy was silent from grief at these proofs of Henry's unworthness, and' a consciousness of the little service of attempting to soothe her fi'iend's irritated spirit. "Comne, ladties," said Charle%, returning to them, " why do you linger behind so long--this is unusual. Here is my g1ay sister personating the heroic Calliope, or the tragical Melpo- mene.   This is not arti;tical, Laura; 'twill do admirably for   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.      5 the genius, of Tallulah; 'the terrible;' but what think you, Alston, would not the faiir Erato be in better keeping, with tu,! gentle magic of Toccoa?" ' Far better," replied Mr. Alston; "I would lhave wagered, too, that Miss Laura's heart would have been the earliest of-' fering at this shrine of beauty, rather than the last." Here they stood at the margin of the basin which receives tlhe descending spray of Toccoa; a spot of such exquisite beauty as to win the mind involuntarily from the deepest grief. A picturesque and serpentine path had led them several hundred yard., through a dense forest wood, from the road- side, where they had left their cai'rirges, to the strearmlet of Toccoa. They now stood at its base: before them soared perplendicularly, to the majestic elevation of one hundred and eighlty-six feet, a mountain of dark rock, so regular and un- broken inl its formation, as to appear more a stupendous effort of human power, than the work of nature. This wall of rock does not extend far, as the banks gradually rising on either handl, reach the upper bed of the stream, where the water pursues its gentle course. through an extensive spread of com- paratively level land.. The charm of Toccoa is perfect. It is taken in at a glance. The artist finds notlhing to omit in his picturings, but detects in its' tout ensemble, that complete and rare beauty, to obtain whichl he is generally compelled to unite the pride of many spots ; as -the Grecian artist combined all the gems of his classic land in those sublime and incom- parable master-pieces of hunman genius-the Venus and tile Apollo. The stream is scarcely more than fifteen feet in width, and sometimes so shallow, that the descending mass- at all times nothing more than a column o' splray-yields gracefully to the b, eath of the lightest zepllyr, and, like a water-spirit, glides in its descent joyously to the light and   O6     TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. left, in a hundred magic and matchless windings. The noise of the fall is not sufficient to mar the quiet genius of the spot. It unites well with the murlnurs of the winds, and the songs of the birds in the tree tops; the half angry, half playful g an- bols of the waves in the dark basin, and the cool temperature that always prevails here, while all around is sinking under the fervid heat of a sumlnmer sun. Toccoa is a spot which will extort, if needed, a passing tribute. Like the beaming smile of infant beauty, the harsh frown of heartlessness or care can- not live in its presence. Placing " nature " as the object of passion, one mlight say of Toccoa, in Byron's words, "He who hath loved not, here would learn that love." It is a spot where the spirit will steal forth and blend in brotheahood with the objects and influences around; where the earth and elements, of which we were once a part, and to which, in the course of nature, we shall be resolved again, claim kindred, and become {"A part Of us, and of our souls, as we of them." "Must we go?" said Lucy, as they were preparing to leave. "I could linger days in this sweet place. It seems to me to possess the talismanic power of the manipulator, in the mo- deln theory of animal magnetism, that of blendling the soul and mind of his' patient with his own, and wafting her thoughts whitlher and where he will." "I think," added Laura, speaking from the heart, "that one almost realizes here the fabled fountain of Lethe, with the advantage that while it banishes the past of sorrow and sad- ness from the soul, it leaves and tints anew the hours and scenes of joy : casts a brighter colouring upon the present, and sucrgoests kind auguries for .the future."  "Why hasten away?' returned Lucy; "to-morrow will be as to-day-the end of our efforts will be then as now-   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     " happiness. We shall find no pleasanter place: come, cousin Charles., order a countermlarch." "Your suggestion, Lucy, is certainly en philosophe and natural. This pretty brook itself, here running so rapidly from its fairy basin to other lands, would halt in its course, were it of your school; for it will find, in all its wanderings, no place more lovely than that it now leaves behind ; but on it will go, accomplishitng its destiny, until lost in the great ocean of waters. So man's nature is one of change and pro- gression--in youth, sighing for mature age ; each day long- ing for the next, and all enjoyed pleasures inferior to anticipa- ted good; on--on, until he, too, is lost in the great ocean of : waters--buried in deep oblivion, and heard of no more. So we, Lucy, must not combat the course of nature, but must be content to accomplish our destiny, and leave Toccoa to hunt some of those objects of future pleasure, which, the nearer we approach, the farther they are off. What. think you of that, Laura, for a Solomon-like reply to Lucy's sentimental wish to remain at Toccoa; live perhaps on black-berries and butter- cups, and sleep on a moss-grown rock, as the moon-beams kiss the cre ts of the little waves in the basin?" Omittingc the strain of mingrled sentiment and badinage which now followed, and supposing our travellers to have happily passed over the few miles which separate the stream- let of Toccoa firom the grander cataracts of the famed Telrrora, we will rejoin them at the little cottage, occupied as the inn of Tallulah, about two miles from the Falls. Passing the house, they met Phillips, who had accompanied them at the particular wish of Morton, and had ridden on to neet his parents, whom  he expected, from information received in England, to find at Tallulah. l'his circumstance accounts also for Dighton's visit to the spot. At a motion from Phillips, Dighton fell back from the party. )                ..     .   78     TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. "IIow speed you, Jack?" asked lie anxiously. "IThis is a wild-gouse chase," replied Phillips, sadly- "balked!" "H How! Was our information false? Do you deceive me? You have grown serious and puritanical lately," lie added, with a sneer. "' I speak the truth. I wish to heaven 'twas not so! Our information was correct, but we are too late. My pIarents, as we learned, wandered to. this place, and spent some years in yonder house. When my father died, my poor mother for a time lost her senses, and went off, nobody knows where, and has not been hea rd of since." 't Well! this is a prettv end of our plans," returned the, other; l" but if the oll, lady is out of the way. thank God the cabinet and will are not likely to pIlague us. We Inust find her thlough, if living. But first banish, for heaven's sake, that gallows-looking countenance, and act like yourself." k"I can bear your sneers, sir. I deserve those of all rmen. I was an only son; my poor father died of a broken heart, and I was the cause of it. hy mother in her madness, they tell ne, alternately cursed and blessed her wretched son. I iam now another man. I care not for existence, only that [I may, as much. as I can, atone for past errors by a life of pain and remorse. I have vowed fidelity to you, sir, and thougl you have been the cause of all my sins, I will not add treachery to the list. Your counsels are safe with me, but I resign for- ever all share in your proceedings." As Pliilips finished, he turned abruptly to the house, leav- ingf Dighhton utterly astonished at his tone and address. Pass-  ig along, his eyes fell upon a letter in the road, which on examining he was surprised to find to be his own to Mr. Mor- ton. Riolbtlv divining it never to have reached its destina- tion, he determined to forward it at the earliest moment. An   TALLULAII ; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     79 opportunity soon presented of conveying it to the neighlbour- in;g post-town. CHAPTER XIII. IT is necessary, reader, for the right development of our drama, to lead thee once again from the principal theatre and actors. Enterinmg a fashionable house in that elite portion of the city of New-York, traversed by Fourth-street, and gliding into the drawiny-room gently, so that you disturb not the occupant, you will finld old Mr. Morton, of the firm of Morton & Co., intently engaged in scanning a pile of letters received by the evening's mail. The nilit in question is about a week previous to the arrival of Henry Morton and his friend at the Currahee. Seal after seal h ad been broken; the contents of many glanced over with ha-ste or indifference ; a slnile or a fiown accom:,anied the perusal of others, as the old merclhant feli- citated himself upon some lucky speculation, or brooded upon the China advices of the fall of teas, or hs Englih corres- pondent's relation of the depression of stocks. "Whew! Profit and loss!"--his flivourite oath--lhe ex- claimed, as Iiis eye rested on a sheet of more interest than usual--"What's al-l this?" We take the opportunity of the old gentleman's filling his gly./ss, snuffing his candles, and adjusting his sp(-etacles, to glide behind his chair, and peering over his shoulder, read with him. "Ahem!" "COlNWAY, (ENGLAND,) July -, 18-. William Mortor, Esq., NYew-York: DEAR SIIR: My communication may appear strange to vou, but I sincerely trust your knowledge of the subject matter is,   80     TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. or will be, sufficient to give you an interest in it. You were once engaged in commercial transactions with old Sir John Staughton, uncle of the late Sir Richlard Staughton, of Con. way Hall. I say ' lte,' for that gentleman departed this life a few days ago, and it is his death that furnishes the object of this communication. As you may not be familiar with the circumstances of the family, I will relate incidents necessary to the ritrghtful understanding of what I have to say. Old Sir John had, at his death, two nephews: to Edward, the young- er, he was supposed to have willed his estates, but the will never having been found, Richard, tie elder, fell into the pos- session, and the universal impression being that fi',uil was connected with the affair, the younger nephew left hlome in disgust, and visited America. His ship was wrecked off the coast, and with it, was lost hi. only son, a mere chld. After passing somne time in Boston, he visited the South, with hs other child, a daiughlter, where we understand one or both died. You will wonder what all this has to do with you. Much, I hope. The sequel explains. For years Sir Richard lived much alone, and has gradually declined, under the ef- fects (it is thoughlt) of a gnawing conscience. His only com- panion has been his lawyer, a manl notoriously unprincilled, and whlo, at the time of the circumstances of the will, was so intimately connected with the affairs of the ' Hall,' th'at the villagers have tacitly regarded them as partners in guilt. As, years fled on, the feeling was dying away, until recently the return of another fellow to England, who is supposed to have  t been a tool of the attorney--and his re-embarkation with the attorney himnself for the United States--lias renewed the curi- osity. Tlhis manis Alfred Dighlton; his accomplice, John Phllips. Both, in their late voyage, we learn, accomlpanied  your own son, Mr. Henry Morton; the last mentioned of the two, in the capacity of Mr. Morton's servant, and, I am told,   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.      81 once was in your own service abroad. The object of this voyage was long a matter of great curiosity; a curiosity now allayed by what I have farther to detail. After the depar- ture of Dightotl, Sir Richard drooped daily. He would see no cune, except his physician and myself, his clergyman. We readily discovered the real cause of his complaint to arise from mental ill, but essayed in vain to draw from him a ,on- fidence in his disttress. On the night of , believing his end approach'ng, he requested to se me alone, and I then learned from his own li s the truth of the surmises so rife for many years. It appears that in conjunction with this Digh- ton, then a mere boy,!and Phillips, he had obtained posses- sion of the will of his uncle--that the document was entrust- ed to the care of Phillip)s, to be destroyed, but was placed instead in a secret part of a cabinet, in the possession of his mother, once the nurse of Mr. Edward Staughton's family. That the deep attachment of this woman to her patrons led her to emigrate to America, hoping probably to meet again with some of them ; that she traced them to the South, and finally settled in Georgia, at the Falls of the Tallulalh, where she is at this time, and where Dighton and his fellow are gone to meet her, in order to obtain the will, if still in exist- ence. They are particularly desirous of effecting this for se- curity's sake, as Sir Richard, being completely under the in- fluence of Dighton, has left him heir to his estates-and it is rumoured that one or both the heirs of Edward Staughton are still living! As soon as I received this confession, I begged Sil Richard to assent to it and sign it in form, in the presence of witnesses. He agreed, but it was too late-he died almnost immediately, and there novn rest no other evi- dence than my own statements, not sufficient to invalidate the claim of Dighton, even if the Staughtons be living, unless the lost-will be recovered.   82     TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. I' make you this statement, and enclose you the necessary affidavits, trusting to vou to take such steps as cirlculstances and your ability enable. I feel deeply interested in the fami- ly, and should rejoice to know them living and re-instated in their rights. With many apologies for my long trespass upon your time, I am,.sir, your friend and servallt, ARTHUR PEMBROKE, Rector of Con way." In the same mail with the above were letters firon Henry and Dighton himself. Mr. AM.'s actions were as prollmpt as his decisions. The remainder of the evening was passed in ad- justing his affaires de voyage, and the following day found him on his way to the South. The close of the day fullowing the departure of his friends, Henry, under the kind care of hs nurse, had raplidly recover- ed. She had exacted from Linm a promise to retmain for the present at the inn, and to suffer his companions to believe him still an invalid. The wish of the womaan was so earnest, and he felt so little interested in it either way, that he con- sented. A few minutes before, though, the mail had brought hinm the note which Phillips had returned from Tallulah, and he was insisting upon a release from his promise to the nurse, as the door opened, and old Mr. Morton presented hilnself! We pass over the explanations that followed. Suffice it, that it was resolved no time should be lost, and that day- break should greet them posting to the Falls. IThe old nurse, wh1o had been an unobserved yet deeply interested auditor of the interview, expressed such an earnest wish to accompany them, that it was not denied.   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.      83 CHAPTER XIV. DIGHTON had overtaken his companions, as the roaring of the cataracts betokened their near alproach to the Taliulah; arliving in time to assist in securing, the horses at the usual depot, for which the necessary conveniences had gained the euphonious name of "the Horse-rack."  This was not effect- ed witliout difficulty-the noble animals, as if animated like their masters with the s piiit of the waters, pricking up their ears, and executing divers unruly prances, not at all wise or commendable upon the brillk of an almost fitholotnless preci- pice. The tumnult of feelingr and expectation that the ap- proach to surprisintr and sublime scenes always excites, was increased by this sympathy, with the efforts to allay it, and hurlying ontwards, a very tew steps brought them to the edgre of the clhasm. Well might they gaze long, and with silent awe. Tallulalh is not the spot to be insulted with an inces- sant, Babel-rattling of school-girl exclamations of delight and sugar plum eulogies; its genius exacts the impressive, voice- less homage that 'b passeth show."  The eye, gazing from its eyry station downwards, through a fearful opening in the mountains of the Blue Ridge, between immense walls of solid rock, pas intg strata upon strata, secrks, like the deluvian dove, long for a resting place, yet fiiids no " olive branch," until tra- versing a chaos of one thousand feet., it rests at last upon the tops of trees, of forest size, now dwindled to the pelspective malgnitude of road sidle shrubs. Among these trees, growing at the base of the ravine, winds the Tallulah, leaping in its passage amid beds of craggy rocks and over precilfces, that but for the great chasm, at whose feet they lie abashed and unnoticed, "' might well themselves be deemed of dignity." The stream, in its course through the ravine, makes no less   84     TALLULAH ;- OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. than seven cascades, of every variety of extent, character and beauty. The spot at which our travellers first stood is the nearest point of observation, revealing the deepest'part of the abyss, and the first though smallest of the Falls. "How gentle the murmur from the faill I;elow," said Al- ston, " conpared with the wild roar of the neighbouring cata- racts. Pray, Charles, how is it baptized?" "As you milght, from its gracefuilly circuitous course, sup- pose," answered Charles. "It is the serpentine, the lowest of the cascades, if indeed it may be so called, when scarcely more than a vivacious gambol of the wat .rs, or a line of rapids." "And this ." again inquired Alston, as proceeding up the path they paused to gaze at the second fill. , "4 Is the Horicon," returned Charles--"The cascade of the silvery waters.' It is perhaps the prettiest fth in the chasm ; and that group of noble trees, growing,by its side, and look- ing from above, like a lawn of emerald, is in' exquisite keep- ing with its gentle descent and fleecy and snow-white appear- ance." Passing onwards towards the next fall, they partook of the grateful water of the " nectar spring," which rises in the path. 'This spot," continued Charles, as the t stood upon a mass of rocks hanging fearfully over the gulf, " is a noted one, in the topograplly of Tallulah; one from which more of the chasm and a greater number of cascatdes are visible at a glance, than from any other site. It bea rs the ordinary name of, the Pulpit. Why.?--ou may gather firon its situation. The cascade below is the largest and the most boisterous of the whole. It is the 'Oceana,' and would of itself, even in situations of less sublimity than this, be a point of great attraction." "It reminds one," said Dighton; " of Byron at Tivoli, where   ti         TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.       85 The flashing mass foams shaking the abyss, The bell of waters! where they howl and hiss, And boil in endless torture; while the sweat Of their great agony, wrung from out this Their Phlegethon, curls round the rocks of jet That gird the gulf around in pitiless horror set.'" "Very apropos," said Laura. "But the noble poet's de- scriptions, and particularly his lines upon Tivoli, are so life- like, such incomparable pictures of nature, that in scenes of a like class we are ever detecting similar features that would well answer as their originals. See, now! the sun has burst forth, and there is the enchanting arc-en-ciel hovering over the waves.  How appropriately you might apply the last stanzas of his 'Terni,' in which he likens the heaven-born rainbow, rising, in its softness and beauty like a pure spirit of peace and love over the 'infernal surge,'-to 'hope upon a death-bed'- ' Resembling, 'mid the torture of the scene, Love, watching madness with unalterable mien.'" "The rainbow," added Charles, " is a constant guest here, falls.  BWe must seek an opportunity to see it by moon lilght. You would certainly, Laura, pronounce the pure white cres- cent an angel of merety,or a 'thing of spirit birth.' But we linger too long.  Don't you think the first of the falls, seen above the Oceana, equally worthy of a   stormy title and a poetic eulogy? Though smnaller, its perpendicular descent is greater, as also the noise of its fall ; firom the latter circum- stance, I  presume, it receives its name--' Tempesta.' The other of the three seen  from  the ' Pulpit' is the ' Lodore,' small, yet between rocky banks of most magnificent altitude. The only frequented and easy descent to the bed of the river is but a little distance from here, and will lead us to a spot   86    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. between Lodore and Tempesta, at the foot of the one, and at the top of the other." "Let us hasten on, then," said Alston; "I love to stand in the very midst of Nature's wonders; to sink- into an atom at the base of huge chasms; to find my loudest voice an impo- tent, soundless effort, by the side of raging floods; to quiver, as the yielding bough, at the breath of the sweeping hurri- cane, and to feel the littleness of man and his nlightiest works, as I gaze upwards and see every where around me the stupendous creation of Him at whose command the everlast- ing hills stand fast." "And what myriads of fancies," interrupted Lacy, catch- ing his enthusiasm, " dance around us while thus entombed! How many speculations and imaginings of the world and its creatures beyond those barriers! Some such a feelingo-- nly of a higher caste-as we have in childhood, when we long to look over the hedge which bounds our usual range, and see what lies beyond, or to climb the neiglibouring mountain and find out where the sun goes, after we lose his beams." "The sublime in nature," continued Mr. Alston, "has al- ways a voice not only pleasirng, but useful. What sermon can teach us better our own place in ' being's universal chain,' than scenes such as those of which we have been speaking X What can better dispel pride, and exhibit our dependence upon  superior power? Pride, haughty, solitary, gloomny pride, whether shown towards our fellow-men or our God, is always an empty quality, productive of no shadow of erjoy- ment, and possessing none of the charms springing firom a trustful dependence upon a wiser and more powerful arm, or a generous confidence in the regard and sympathy of our fel- lows." While Alston was speaking they had reached the descent to the Falls.   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     87  "This wilnding way, Frank," whjispered Charles, " will now lead us to Lucy's spot of spots--her cherished 'Trysting Rock,'--conquer now, Alston, (for you cannot deceive me,) and you gain the victory in the enemy's very camp! 'Charge, Chester, charlge!--on, Stanley, on!' are the last words of Rattleton." "A bend in the path brought them to the spot in question named, from haviing been the meeting place, in days of yore, of two Indian lovers. Forming an excellent shelter firom the rain and sun, it was used as a half-way resting place in the descent. At this time a part of a small tree had lodged hori- zontally in the opposite sides of the recess, servingr as a wel- : come, though rude seat. As they entered the spot, Lucy, who had lived with herself and the scene around for the last hour, sank upon the seat, apparently exhausted. Dighton lad passed on to the rocks below, as Charles in his general. shiD pleaded an excuse of fatigue for his cousin, and assigned Alston the task of recovering her and rejoining the others below. "I fear, Miss Staughton, the walk has wearied you," said Alston, in a low and agritated voice. "Or, perhaps, the asso. ciations suggested by surrounding otjects will account for your indisposition. Pardon my abrulptntess. No idle curiosity led n me to learn your history, and I feel too deeply interested in your welfare to have forgotten the events of this spot. You, on one occasion, forgave my temerity in venturing counsel and rebuke.  May I a/.ain use a bother's freedom, and sug. gest the irnportance of banishing or curing these griefs?" "I -thank you, Mr. Alston, for the kind interest you have manifested in ,ny happinless ; I wish I were more worthy of your regard.  I fear you have little esteem for a creature so weak and silly ai myseIf." "You so kindly appreciate and bear my interference," said   88    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. Alston, " that I will seize this opportunity to prevail upon you, if possible, to forget the past, and in that forgetfulness, and the means of enjoyment at your command, be again as you may be--happy." "Alas! Mr. Alston, the past will ever be with me, the pre- sent and the future also. Its occurrences have tinged my whole life with a fatal dye, that the grave alone can expunge. You, if no other, can understand me, and a moment's reflec- tion will show you how useless it is to attempt to cure a mortal wound."  "I do understand you, my dear Miss Lucy, but I see not the wisdom of such long repinings. There are many hearts in the world thlat will love you as ardently as the one you mourn, and when one flower is faded, why not cull another- perhaps quite as fragrant? Whlen Providence calls us from our friends, why not seek friends among those with whom our lot may be cast? When those we esteem are away, why not love those who are near? It is evidently God's will that we should thus act." A"And does Mr. Alston," returned Lucy, " censure the heart that proves constant in its attachments and true to its vows, and eulogize the base soul that, empty and false, will wor- ship at every shrine--upon thie dying embers of one attach- ment kindling another, and another, all evidently as worth- less and contenmptible as the heait that can be thus pliant? Are these Mr. Alston's sentiments--and is it thus he would act?" - "I cannot say what might be my conduct so circum- stanced," replied Alston. "It would be such as I thoughlt duty demanded. I honour your noble constancy of heart, Miss Staughton, but there are duties to God and to mankind, the fulfilnent of which are more imperative, and which call upon you to alter yourlJife so far, as in so doing you can con-   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.      89 tribute to the pleasures of yourself and your fellows. Vir- tues, you must remember, in extremes, degenerate into the most censurable of faults. I feel that I am forgetting myself. I trust you will generously excuse my rude fi'eedom, by as- signing, as its motive, a deep and real kindness." "I cannot censure you, Mr. Alston. I thank you for your rebuke. I have lhad many such. If any change of life, at whatever sacrifice, would contribute to the hlappiness of a solitary being, I think I might wish to make it. But to for- get hin, instead of making He happier, would be a crime for whicth I could never forgive myself. The consciousness of such falsity would prove a livitg curse, and would add to the misery of all connected with me, rathler than contribute to their pleasure. I hope the subject, sir, may never again be mentioned. If we live a century, vou will find me in lheart, as now. Though years may have destroyed imy identity in every other respect, and age may have withered me into an appearance which none would suspect of containingr a heart at all." Lucy had scarcely ceased speaking, when they were rejoin- ed by Laura and her friends, anil the whole group proceeded on their return. The incidents of the day, however, were not over. Reaching the Horse-rack, they found that Charles's steeds had got loose, and had wandered nearer the river. Hard- ly had Laura taken her seat in the carriage, than the horses grew more restive than ever, and backed at a fearful rate to- wards the precipice. The awful chasm was but a few feet behind them, and the alarm   was painfully intense, when Dighton's strong arlm arrested the horses, and by main force stoppled their lp rogr'ess. "Again, Mr. Dilghton," spoke Laura, "I am indebted to you for a timnely rescue firom imost imminent danger. I know not how to thank you for your gallantry." :  8*   90    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. "I would suffer the fate from which it has been my hap- piness to rescue you, if so doing would serve you, dear lady," whispered Dighton. "You know the reward I would ask. It is great, immensely great; and my all, which I tender in return, is utterly inadequate. Yet, when there is no sacrifice, there is no generosity. I implore you, think more mercifully of   " "La! brother Charles!" interrupled the provoking crea- ture, 'you have no idea what an eloquent speech Mr. Digh- ton is making to me! Do come and listen." Dighton bit his lips, and smiled as he best could, as Charles approached. z"Ah! Dighton," cried Rattleton, " finished already? Your address must have been excellent, with such brevity--the very ' soul of wit,' we are told. What was it all about, sis- ter?" "Oh dear! ask Mr. Dighton; I have no doubt he has it all by heart! and I'm sure I can't remember a word of it," answered the laughing girl, as the carriage drove on. "What's the matter, Dighton?" asked Charles, when left alone with him. "Heart-ache . A self-imposed pain, I assure you. At any rate a very poetical pain, so I'll give you a rhyming prescription, in a couplet from Donne: I cannot feel the tempest of a frown, I may be raised by love, but not cast down.' To be -sure, she gives you laughs instead of frowns, but it's all the same thing, though you Englishmen would rather be run through than ridiculed. You would not value a prize that every one could catch as well as yourself, and catch without toil. You possess my interest, which I hope is not a little with my sweet sister. Patience, impetuous sir!" ^   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     91 CHAPTER XV. ' HERE comes the boy I despatched to the post-office, yes- terday, for letters," said Alston, as they were standing at the door of the inn, on their third day at Tallulah. "Letters, my dear Frank! How could you expect letters?" said Charles. "Sinply because I directed mine to be sent there," an- swered Alston. "And I also," said Dighton; "I wish, sir, I had known of your despatch." "Unnecessary, sir," said Alston. "I have to apologize for the liberty I took, of including Mr. Dighton, and all our par- ty, in my message." "I am very much obliged to you, sir," returned Digiton, as the boy rode up and deposited a pacquet in Mr. Alston's hands. "Now for something," said that gentleman, " to oc- cupy the time until our farewell visit to the Falls. Mr. Digh- ton, here are both letters and papers for you. Miss Rattle- ton, you are not forgotten, and I find here a communication from England, for myself. Ah!" he whispered to Luc,., as his eyes ran over the sheet--" from my friend Pembroke! He lives ; is rector at your paternal residence, Conway, and married!" Alston did not design making this announcement so ab- ruptly, and he turned fearfully to note its effect upon Lucy. Excepting a countenance of ashy paleness, and a slight tre- mor, no emotion was perceptible. There was evidently a se- vere struggle-successful from long schooling. "What, Mr. Dighton, is your news? nothing painful, I trust 8" asked Charles, as he watched him musing intently over his letter. as   92    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. Dighton crushed the sheet in his hand, and pointed to a paragraph in a number of the "London Times," which he held before him. "This is all. The death of a dear and valued friend. Read it." Charles-read---DIED, last Tuesday, Sir Richard Staugh- ton, at his residence of Conway Hall, Cumberland. The de- ceased, we understand,- has left the whole of his extensive estates to his friend and companion, Alfred Dighton, Esq. Mr., D. is at present in the United States, but is soon expect- ed to return to take possession of his lordly domains." "Sir Richard Staughton, of Conway!" exclaimed Charles, as he finished the paragraph. "The uncle of my cousin Lucy!" "How!" returned Dighton, " your cousin Lucy a" "Merelv a name, sir. Miss Stau;ghton is the daughter of Edward Staughton, Esq., brother-of the late Sir Richard, and if I have understood properly, she is the rightful possessor of the estates of Conway." Dighton mused for some moments, and at length returned, "you have been misinformed, sir. Some' reports of the kind, I have heard, were once rife, but they have long since been forgotten as idle tales, and from my knowledge of Sir Rich- ard, I can speak him to have been a man every way worthy of such a niece as Miss Staughton. I am no less delighted than surprised, to find my friend's niece alive, and in the per- son of Miss Staughton. As an expression of gratitude to Sir Richard, and a mark of personal regard for Miss Lucy, I silall insist upon following the course which I know he himself,t; if living, would pursue-that of presenting Miss Staughton. with a claim upon one-half of my firiend's munificent bequest." N' Noble and generously said!" cried Charles. "An action every way worthy of you, my dear sir." Alston in words, and Laura, by an approving smile, ex-   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     93 pressed their admiration of Dighton's magnranimous conduct, and congratu!lated Lucy upon her good fortune. "I feel more than grateful to Mr. Dighton for his noble offer," said Lucy, " but I cannot consent that my uncle's will be interpreted in a manner so dllff rent from what he intend- ed, or that Mr. Dighton's kindness shall allow him to deprive himself of so large a portion of what is evidently and wholly his." "True," answered Charles; "on second thought, Lucy, you are right, and I know not how I came to expect anything else of you. You have all you need, and for our sakes I hope you will never have more." "For your sake, my dear friend," said Lucy, "I could wish for more. While I refuse this means of relieving you from the burthen of my support, I must seek some other. I lhave often wished, cousin Charles, you would interest yourself in procurintg me some onice as governess or teacher." "Yes, often, Lucy--'far too often. If you ever breathe such an unwelcome wish again, I shall think you unkind, and com- ply with it, out of revenge. We all thank you, Mr. Dighlton, but you shall not steal our Lucy's affections firom us. You must seek another to share your fortunes, and I hope you may seek successfully "-glancing, as he spoke, towards his sister. Laura acknowledged his meaning with a conscious blush, and a short time after took Dirliton's arm, as a matter of course, when they left the house for their farewell visit to the Falls. "This is to be our last visit to Tallulah for some years, cousin Lucy," whispered Charles, while Alston returned to the cabin for her shawl. "As you please, cousin Charles," returned Lucy, in a de- sponding tone, "I care not whether I ever see it again, or   "#     TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. whether I ever leave it. Had I my choice, I would seek a resting place, at once, within the voice of its waters." Alston had returned, and was standing by Lucy's side as she spoke, andl'a smile of pleasure stole over his features as she ceased, which Charles thought very much out of place. "W]iy do you smile?" lie whispered. ' In her words and manner I see a death-blow to your hopes. I see the true- hearted Lucy; true as the magnetic needle, and unlike others, not cursed with its deviations too. I wish you every joy, Alston; but I confess that your success would be a disap- pointment to me, in the vanrishing of my faul!tless ideal of  Lucy's character. CHAPTER XVI.. "AURA  had secretly hopd that every succeeding hour would hlave broug-ht Henry Morton to Tallulalh, a suppliant at her feet. Her disappointment, added to lher jealousy, daily increased by Dighlton's unremitted hints and calumnies, had fornmed in her breast a stoical resolve to banish his memory at once and forever from her Inind. Dighltol's own unremit- ted attentions, his vows of love more than once madet, his apparently estimable and amiable character, added to a de- sire of revenge upon Morton,--I)ad led her to exhibit a tacit admnittance of his claims, which she really did not design. She had given him no positive encouragenlent, vet ih general society her conduct would have led all to consider ligthton as the favoured suitor, and as such he was regarded by Charles and all lhis party. Thlere was, ind(ed, every prospect of her yieldingr her hand, without once thinking of the importanlce of the heart accompanyintg it. Dighton's late generous con- ------'--J'C   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.      95 duct towards Lucy had operated mucd: in his favour. Little did, Laura know the-secret design that prompted the offer, and. his consciousness of its beilxg refused. Diohton was aware of his advantages, and resolved to improve thernm. Alston seemed in a happy hulnour, and exerted his powers so suclcessfilly to win Lucy from her pensive and listless hu- mo,'r, that short as the time appeared when they reached the Trysting Rock, their friends had long before passed it, on their way to the bottom of the descent. "My dear Miss Stauu hton," said Alston, as they again sat in the sihade of the favourite slpot, " two days ,fago, in tis verv plact., I implored you to forsake your secludled and even self- ish life, and perform your part in the world's drama. I said that manv would rejoice to lay their hearts at your feet, and make your enj yment their life's business. I was e;arestand sincere in my advice, yet very selfish. The marriage of in friend Arthur%--ls rend-led your further devotion to him not only idle, but in the eye of the world censurable. Dearest lady! let one who loves you with a true, an ardent, and an unaltera- ble aflection, fill the place of the lost, and find his best happi- ness in contributing to yours. I can truly say, that until we met never did I  love, even in fancy. Here, upon this sacred spot, I  vow eternal devotion, for I feel nmv heart wholly and irrevocably yours! Do I  pray in vain? Speak, dear 'lady  Oh!  deny me not!" 1 Lucv gazed with a   wild and suprised air at the speaker. "Why will you pain me. sir? This is folly! It is cruel and unworthy of you, knowing as you well do my heart, if indeed it is not long withered and dead. I beg you will leave me, sir, instantly! Would you have me  break my vows, and ex- pose  nmyself to your scorn, rather than win your love?" "Lucy, dearest Lucy! why did I   ever doubt you? You have triumphed, and nobly! You would indeed otherwise   96     TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.      ; have sunk in my esteem. O! forgive me, and pardon my cruel test of your love, when I throw myself at your feet, your long lost, yet ever constant Arthur! I knew not, dearest, until we mlet at the Springs, that you were livin(r, and since then I [have enacted a self denial in preserving the incognito that has so severely tested your constancy, second only in merit to your own angelic victory! (God be praised, the hour of trial is passed for both!" Alston's changed voice, and the thousand visions that had haunted her during their acquaintance, startled her as he commence, I speaking,, and so joyful was the blissful surprise when she heard his confession, and received from his bosom her letters and the miiniature h'e head paillted of her, in the happy day. of their early love, that her tongue refused utter- ance, and she sank insensible in his arms. He called loudly for aid, and the presence of his friends soon respoynded to the -alarln. His efforts, however, for her recover I :had not been futile in the meanwhile; and as they appeared, Lucy, with returnting consciousness, looked up in his face with such a sweet smile of joy and confidence, that the tale was instantly told. "I congratulate you, Alston," said Charles, " and so Lucy has at last yielded "-glancing a look of affectionate reproach at her.  "Nay, dear Charles.! she refused-and with indignation, too-eh? Lucy--the courted and wealthy Alston; but fiank- ly accepted the adventurer-Pembroke!" "Arthur Pembroke V!? exclaimed all. "Is it so! Are you he?" "'No wonder you are surprised, my firiends.- I an indeed the veritable Arthur. After leaving Lucy, years ago, at the Trysting Rock, T mourned her as de:td. Recently an irresis- tible wish to -revisit this spot again, brought me to Georgia; and your narrative, Miss Laura, first told me she was living,   :',        TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     97 !   and that I was still loved. I resolved to test her sincerity and truth, by a severer ordeal, than even seven long years of devotion, in the teeth of every apology for forgetfulness. I even proved her Arthur treacherous, and herself forgotten for another; yet she has stood every test, and if earthly love can make one happy, she shall never feel another pang!" "Frank!" said Charles, "you are a happy fellow. I give you joy with all my heart. Lucy! God and all his angels bless my dear Lucy! You deserve it all; whatever misfor- tunes the future has for me, the recollection of this happy hour will always cure. But, my dear Frank, how did you escape being recognized, and whbat of your friend Pembroke 2" "During my first acquaintance with Lucy," replied Alston, "I was labouring under a  severe illness, that very much al- tered my usual appearance. Since then, years have changed me in every way.  From the moment of our meeting, too, I have worn a studied air and  disguised voice, all of which,. however, seeming to me  insufficient, I was induced to resort to the little artifice of my friend Pembroke; the falsehood, though, was only in Lucy's application of the story, all its incidents being true.' 'I have such a friend, and my letter to- day was from  him.  Our acquaintance resulted as I related to you, but it was prior to my first visit to America, at which time I borrowed his name, and under it won my  incompara- ble Lucy." "I offer you my  earnest congratulations," said Dighton, as Alston finished his tale; "but why should not this spot, which has been the theatre of so much romance, witness an- other happy event?  My dear Miss Rattleton, you have laughed at my suit too long. On this day of happy denoue- ments, and in the presence of our friends, I entreat you to banish this cruel levity, and accept the sincere offer of my hand and for  -" 9   98    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. "Fortune!" interrupted Charles, who had availed himself of Dighton's newspaper still in his hand as a screen, to hide his amusement at that gentleman's address to his sister, but whose eye had at that moment fallen upon a singularly inter- esting paragraph- "Fortune! stop! what is this?" he continued, reading. "SINGULAR ONDIT.-It is rumoured that Sir Richard Staughton, on his death-bed, made confessions to his minis- ter, convicting himself, in connection with his friend Dighton, of certain frauds relative to the will of old Sir John Staugh- ton, the uncle of the late Sir Richard, which render his own title, and that of his successor, untenable and void. The re- port is very generally credited, but with the precaution that always characterizes the columns of this paper, we forbear receiving it, unless upon surer ground than mere public ru- mour." "Who dares?" cried Dighton, snatching the paper from Charles's hand. "Who, of my friends here, places the slight- est credence on such vile slanders?" "None of your friends, but some unlucky enough to be your acquaintances," said a voice from behind, and old Mr. Morton, with Henry and the sibyl, joined the group. "What is this?" cried Dighton surprised. "What mean your insults, sir a?" "No insult at all, sir. This will explain ;"' and here Mr. Morton read aloud the letter he had received from the Rev. Mr. Pembroke. "What answer, sir, do you make to that 2" "None, sir, excepting that it is the work of some vile, en- vious wretch." "Permit me, sir, to see the writing," said Alston, glancing at the letter. "I can vouch for the truth of the charge," he continued, as he recognized the hand of his friend. "It is from Mr. Pembroke, a man of high repute and unquestioned   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.     99 honour; moreover, a total stranger to Mr. Dighton. Sir," he added, turning sharply to the adventurer, "I imagined you had forsaken the vile courses that compelled me, some years ago, to shun your acquaintance, but I find a second farewell necessary; please remember, sir, that it must be a final one." "What proof have you of your chargest? I defy you to prove any part of them! Not all y our falsehoods can invali- date my claim.  Produce the will you speak of!" All looked inquiringly towards the elder Morton. "It is true!" said that gentleman, "I fear we shall be un- able to obtain the important document, and in that case shall find it difficult to restore the property to the rightful heirs." At this moment the sibyl stepped forward. "Villain i" she cried, "look at me well! You may know me now; we have met before, and more than once!" "The sibyl!" exclaimed Dighton, looking intently in her face, " and the nurse, and--and-old dame Phillips, by hea- ven!" "The same," replied the dame, presenting a sealed docu- ment to Mr. Morton.   "I am indeed the nurse of Edward Staughton's family.  The cabinet is still in my possession, and hearing you speak of it last night in your conference at 'Currahee,' I examined its secret drawers, and discovered this paper, which I presume is the desired writing. My appear- ance at Currahee is readily explained. Moving to America, we finally settled at Tallulah. My husband dying, I, for a time, lost my reason, and wandered until I found myself near that mountain. A passion for wild and lonely places was a peculiar mark in my insanity, and I at once took up my abode there in the character of a fortune-teller. On my re- covery, having no friends, I resolved to continue my mode of life, and did so up to the time of our late fortunate meet- ing. The ingratitude of my son was the great cause of my   100    TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. unhappiness, but I find him still living, and, I think, dis- posed to amend." "Forgive me, dearest mother! O! forgive," cried Phil- lips, springing forward and falling at, the nurse's feet. "I am truly indeed another being, but the change is all yours. Why did I not before recognize you? Who but a fond mother would have shown the interest in such a villain that you lhave dis- played the last few days! My future years shall repay you for the anguish of the past. Heaven be praised for this hap- py meeting!" t"Are you indeed my dear nurse?" said Lucy, as she twined her arms around the sibyl's neck. "How I am to meet you again!" "Lucy-child "-said the bewildered woman--" are you Lucy Staughlton? 0h yes! she is my darling babe!" As she spoke, her eye rested upon Henry. "I can't understand it," she continued. "It must be so-it is! Sir," turning to the elder Morton, "is this your son-your own son?" "He is not," replied Mr. M. "Why do you ask? I know nothing of his birth. I only know that when a child of some three or four years of age, I picked him off a wreck, near New-York, and took him with me to India, where my ship was then bound. He wears now a miniature which was around his neck at that time. All I could gather from himn was that he had come from England, and that his name was Henry. Now, I think of it, too, the picture bears a strong family resemblance to Miss Staupghton." Lucy drew the miniature from her bosom, and was eagerly scanning it as this conversation proceeded. The old nurse, too, had snatch- ed the picture from Henry's hand, and was holding him at arm's length, intently glancing from him to Lucy, and then' at -the miniatures--" Yes! it is-it is!" she at length scream- ed." There is happiness in store for me yet! My prayer   TALLULAH; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK.    101 is answered, and my darlings live! It is Henry Staughton!', The assurance was unrequited. The brother and sister felt themselves such, and acknowledged the relation in a long and ardent embrace. Oh! who- can say--who can tell the age of unspeakable joy in that one moment of pure and in- tense bliss! Dighton was leaving the scene, when Mr. Morton, stopping him, said, "Sir, be so kind as to remain. Through the com- munications of this good woman, whom you would have bribed to the commission of crime, I have learnt more of you than you may wish known, and I thought it advisable in a neighbouring town to procure a warrant for your arrest. Please inform me of your object, sir, in bribing the nurse to detain Mr. Henry Staughton upon a sick bed? Do any of our friends know?" At this instant, Henry, taking the hand of Laura, remark- ed, "Dear Miss Rattleton, there has been some cruel misun- derstanding between us. Has that man said aught to my prejudice?" "Much," returned Laura. "I see his snares now. Much, and I was fool enough to credit him. The happy discovery of the original of the miniature has proved the baseness of his first charge, and with it the others. But I will not detail them now.   I have wronged you, Henry, and I frankly con- fess the error." "' I thank you, Laura; but it was cruel to write me as you did." "Write you? I have never sent you a line 1" "Ah! Then this letter," handing her Dighton's forged reply to his note, " is also his work. You need not now see mine.; you can easily gather its contents from the reply in your hand. You will not own his note, will you " -he added, smiling. 9*   102    TALLULAH ; OR THE TRYSTING ROCK. "Never!" returned the delighted Laura, "you may now try your own skill as my amanuensis, and write what you please. I give you carte blanche, dear Henry!" Never-was a more joyous group, and never were more happy hearts assembled upon one little spot of earth, than were grouped on that afternoon under the "Trysting Rock." We have but little to add. In the universal joy, Dighton slipped away unnoticed, and nothing has been heard of him since the happy denouement of that day. A few shoat weeks, after the events narrated, witnessed the happy bridal of Henry and Laura, and the marriage of Alston to the constant Lucy. She has become again the same care- less; light-hearted being she was in early youth; the idol of her husband, and the adored friend of all happy in her ac- quaintance, always blessing thie hour that first led her to the "t Trystinrg Rock." Sir Henry and Lady Staughton have returned to England, and taken possession of the ancestral mansion in Conway, to the high delight of the faithful peasantry. Mr. and Mrs. Alston have established themselves in a pretty villa in their vicinity, where the hours fly with golden wings, blest as they are with the frequent society of their friends, and a large cir- cle of choice and admiring spirits, which their amiability and worth have drawn around them. Mrs. Phillips has returned to the service of her " darling Lucy," while her son continues in that of Sir Henry. Old Mr. Morton having retired from business, and taken an especial fondness to Charles, both have removed to Eng- land, where they pass their time happily among their friends, with whom and all the country arounld,-they are humourous- ly known as the old and the young bachelors-soubriquets, which Lady Laura declares must be washed away, before an unblemished finish rests upon the trials, joys and surprises of TALLULAH.   JOCASSEE; I       OR, IL CAPANNETTO. CHAPTER IL THE LADIES. " O, dear! how excessively stupid the days are becoming! If Doctor Quotem were here, he might in his trite borrowed phrase, most truly say of the season of Charleston life and pleasure-- the guests are fled and the garlands dead,' or 'the melancholy days are come.' Wele it not that this broil- ing temperature keeps one busy with fanning, one would ab- solutely expire with the want of something to do. But hea- ven be praised! there's a ring! run Lely and answer the bell! Even Qulotem himself, with his scraps and'apropos, his gravi- ties, simplicities and pedalntries, will be welcolne." Thus yawned the beauteous and gay Margaretta Pearson, as she vainly assayed an easy disposal of her Medician figure upon the softest couch in her elegant boudoir. A world of varying and ravishing attitudes for the painter's eye, were displayed in her futile task, until the labour was abandoned upon the entrance of the expected visitor, who met an eager welcome. "Thank you, thank you, Ellen!  a thousand thanks for coming to my   rescue. I was upon the very point of expiring with weariness. You shall have a  medal from the humane   104     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. society for your compassion. All! what a delightful expres- sion of generous kind-heartedness in your eye! But, Ellen, badinage aside, I'm sick of Charleston; have you brought me orders to repair to the country 2" "A question, Margaretta, which interests me no less than yourself. As you say, everybody has left town, and nothing remains to amuse us. But a relief is at hand : Papa and Quotem have just returned, and announce every thing in rea- diness in our mountain cottage, and in one short week we are to take possession. So get all your city affairs closed up, dear, as speedily as possible." 4"Ellen! you are my guardian angel! How I long to be there! What a charming time we shall have: mountain air, birds, flowers-wild-flowers, Ellen!-brooks, waterfalls!- O dear! how delightfully rural it will be! I declare I shall never weary of it!" "If you should do so, Margaretta, there will be an abun- dance of other resources. Pa says it is a heaven of a spot, and Quotem described it in an extract of half the fourth book of Paradise Lost, or at least as much of it as is taken up in the picture of Eden." "Spare me the repetition, Ellen, and give me your other resources." "( Well, then; besides embellishing the place most lavishy, and providing every fitting amusement, such as various mu- sical instruments, an excellent library, and all the adjuncts of the merry dance, papa has secured, what I imagine will please you more than all-plenty of compary." "On! a fig for company! I leave more than enough of that behind me. I assure you that for the coming three months I desire no flirtation but with sweet Mardamoiselle (she is too lovely to be matronized) Nature. A fig for the company!   JOCASSEE'; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     105 "O you heathen! When Authur Merriton is a part of it!" ("Authur! is he to be there? Then I vow I will not go! He bores me to death with his absurd devotion. Were he as true a lover as he affects, he would long before now have made voluntary use of the rope, or pistol, or river." "A proof of love, Margaretta, which malgre your scorn, would be little grateful to you. No, uo; say what you will, Mr. Merriton is oftener the theme of thought with you than your pride and policy would have the world suppose. But if Authur will not do, what do you think of Quotem, to make couplets for us?" "Angels and ministers of grace defend us! Ellen, Ellen! remember the Milton! He will be the death of us. He will have Goldsmith, Gay, Wordsworth, Virgil, and all the pasto- ral and rural versifiers, cut up into scraps, to poison every ripple that breaks, every leaf that rustles, every drop of dew that gathers, and every sentence which is spoken! The idea is dreadful!" "He is ticketed, however, and we must draw such amuse- ment as we may, from his peculiarities. He is at least pre- ferable to an automaton'. And now, next on the catalogue, Margaretta, is my fellow-contemner of sentiment, romance, and love-the cynical Mr. Heartless." "The Lord help us, Ellen! When you and Heartless are shut up together for three months within the same cage, all love, and truth, and nature, will be sneered from the earth. I have myself half a mind to besiege the fellow's heart (sup- posing he has one) just for the sake of exposing the empti- ness of his scepticisln in woman's power." "Ha, ha! .Margaretta, such a charge upon the invincible Mr. Heartless, would indeed be exquisite. Think of the Achilles on his knees at a female shrine! We will see what can be done when we get him in a purer atmosphere than    106      JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. that of this artificial city. But to continue our roll, Marga- retta, the next in order is Mr. Stephen Shelton, a cavalier for our friend Neva." "O, Shelton, of course," returned Margaretta. "I fear that Neva's pleasure will not be much increased by his pre- sence, and to tell you the truth, Ellen, entre nousa I dislike the man exceedingly." "You speak for me also, Margaretta." "I speak for all who have seen him as much as I have. Neva dreads him, despite the veil in which, from respect to my father, she shrouds her real feelings. I often wonder why father should be so bent upon a match between them. I sometimes think he is demanding too much of her gentle and grateful nature." "Were Neva Cameron, Ellen Vere," said the other lady, "she would very speedily silence such unwelcome preten- sions, for though I see little truth in a lover's dream of hap- piness, I can descry a deluge of horror in a life-bondage to one whom you only detest. The fancied love of dreaming, credulous souls, is uncertain enough, but spare one the abso- lute certainty of wedded misery. As Quotem would say in this place, turning over in his mind a page of ' King Henry,'- ' What is wedlock forced but a hell, An age of discord and continual strife.' The verses, Margaretta, are terribly veracious; ha, ha! more than can be said, I fancy, of the poet's following and re- versed couplet: ' Whereas the contrary bringeth forth bliss, And is a pattern of celestial peace.' That, Margaretta, I consider one of the 'may-bees' which as the school-boys sceptically have it, ' don't fly at all seasons of the year.'" "I  declare, Ellen, you will shame Heartless, himself, in   !;      y   JOCASSEE OR IL CAPANNETTO.      107 your sentiments, and Quotem in the manner of expressing Bilk  them. But to return to Neva,--I have no doubt she views a constrained marriage in a more repulsive light than your- self. But if you know her well, you know also how widely remote her line of conduct would be from yours. She holds herself bound to my father in the most sacred debts of honour, gratitude and obedience-ties, in her estimate, every way i    paramount to her individual pleasure. Talking, however, will not mend the matter ; so, once more, Ellen, to your list." "Last, then, among the gentles, comes your conquest-elect --Henry Hautleroy. He is every week expected to arrive from Germany-earlier than he had at first designed, for no other purpose than to aid us in passing away there coming sum- mer months at our little cottage." Margaretta's face ;brightened at this item of the rural corps.  Henry Hautleroy was the son of one of her father's    intimate friends. He was heir to an immense fortune, and report said he was also an Adonis and an Apollo, in personal appearance, and the seven savans of Greece, united, in intel- lect. As such, Margaretta and her companions remembered himn in his early boyhood, for since that period they had no seen him. he having spent the intervening period first at a distant boarding-school, and afterwards at the universities of Germany. When he was fast under the parental roof, Mar- garetta Pearson was only in her seventh year, but then she was his favourite play-mate, and he was accustomed in boy- ish style to call her his " little wife," and from that period to the present she had kept up a platonic correspondence with him. The probability was thus very great (supposing, of course, the proper tone of Margaretta's letters,) that when Hautleroy returned, it would be with--to say the least-a decidedly favourable feeling towards his old playmate. Mar- garetta did make such inferences from such rational premi-   108     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. ses. She had, in its deepest force, the usual woman's thirst for wealth, or the passion for the station and homage at wealth's command. Under the sway of this feeling, she did violence to some latent holier emotions, in her scornful slight of the sincere addresses of Mr. Authur Merriton. , In short, Miss Margaretta Pearson very prudently turned Mr. Henry Hautleroy around in all possible lights, and in every attitude he shone most brilliantly. In like position,fair reader, what kind sacrifices would you have contemplated for Mr. Henry Hautleroy's worldly felicity? Just what you would have resolved upon, did the politic Miss Pearson. "Margaretta," said Ellen, after pausing a moment for a reply to her new of Mr. Hautleroy, " you certainly do not object to your old playmate's company? Why it was only last week that Madame Salvo sagely predicted, that at your feet would bow a youth of manly grace, rich and learned, native born but foreign bred. Whom, except Henry Hautle- roy, could have been perched upon the tip of her divining wand e" ' I only hope his arrival will be early," replied Miss Pear- son, endeavouring to hide the deeper interest which possessed her heart; "with Heartless, Quotem, Shelton, and Merriton, we shall require the fullest strength of his best powers to render our family gatherings endurable. But, Ellen, you have not yet told me what ladies your father has invited?" "First, Margaretta, you are to assist me in doing the ' plea- sing' at our cottage; next is your companion, Neva Came- ron; then the good-humoured, little Martha Woodlette--be- sides my mother, the younger children, and other supernu- meraries. Apropos of Neva--where is she ." "She ha/sgone up King-street to purchase some bracelets, but I every minute expect her return. She will be enchant- ed with the prospect of our summer tour. Nothing possesses   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     109. the charm for Neva, that wild nature presents with all its wealth of loveliness and quiet. Herself a true child of na- ture, she holds with hills and vales a sisterly intercourse. I am glad, too, Ellen, that Martha Woodlette is to go, if only to provide a keeper for Dr. Quotem. Kind heart! she listens. to all his pedantries as though he were an oracle from the skies. We need such a benevolent old soul to keep in check the quarrelsome spirits which will be there assenmbled. But hark-there. goes the bell again!" t "Oh! is it you, Neva!" exclaimed the two ladies, as the new arrival entered. "All is ready, Neva! the cottage is prepared, and next week we are to start for the mountains!  "Yes!" answered Miss Cameron, in a tone of delight, "I have just seen your father, Ellen, and he told me all about it! He says it is the loveliest spot in all the upland of Carolina; that not only has nature surpassed herself, but that he has added every possible aid of art in the perfection of her beauty. How wise, Ellen, it is in Mr. Vere to select a summering place among the unequalled charms of our own home, before the wearying and unsatisfactory travel to the Northern States. To, me, such a selection appears far more patriotic and rational, than plunging, after our winter gaieties, into the still deeper dissipations which follow the passage of the sum- mer, in the Atlantic cities. After the quiet and repose of the one, we return home invigorated in body and in mind, and softened in heart; from the other, we reap only increased weariness and selfishness. Truly it is high time Southerners began to appreciate the -resources in nature, of their own sunny and fruitful land. But," added the speaker, suddenly varying the theme, as her eye fell upon the small pacquet ia her hand, "I have not shown you my purchase!" and she displayed to the interested gaze of her friends, a pair of bracelets, rich in workmanship, though very antique in style. 10              '    1l1d     JOCASSEE ; OR IL CAPANNETTO. "What outlandish looking things, Neva!" cried Miss Pearson. "Did Ilayden & Gregg; sell you such unfashion- able stuff as that 2" "I vow," added Ellen Vere, "Neva Cameron is growing penurious and purchasing refuse jewelry!" "You are both in the wrong," returned NTeva. L Hayden & Co. had articles much more beautiful and less costly, but these poor despised things accidentally caught my eye, in- a case of similar matters in the window of an obscure shop. Their olden-time appearance suited my fancy, to say nothing of certain very strange reminiscences which they instantly awakened, and the more I looked upon them, increased,; as- sociations, too vague to be expllined, of my early childhood. At moments I half fancy I have seen them before, upon the wrist of one I loved, and who caressed me in my infancy, and the very next thought is of my mother---a mother whom I never knew, at least scarcely to remember." Here the speak- er caught the unsympathizing looks of her auditors, and ab- ruptly paused. She forbore to relate her encounter in the goldsmith's shop with a woman of advanced age, whom she had before then observed to watch her countenance narrow- ly, upon more than one occasion of their street encounters. At this moment the curiosity of the stranger had seemed in no whit abated, and when the bracelet which Neva was se- curing upon her arm caught her eye, she no longer indulged her glances furtively, but abruptly approaching Neva, she looked first at the bracelets with an air of most singular in- terest, and then abruptly demanded her name. Neva, al- though greatly surprised. had replied to her question, when the woman, half addressing her and half in soliloquy, said, "Poor child, and have we met at last, and these bracelets- how came they here?" and then banishing her air of abstrac- tion, she added, pointing to the jewels, "Buy them, my dear, they are invaluable. You will not regret the bargain."   XI          JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPAtNETTO.     Ill "Meet me to-morrow evening at    ," she continued, perceiving that Neva was about expressing her curiosity; meet me then and there, and we shall become better ac- quainted."  Waitingr only for Neva's promise, she had left the shop without further parley. This incident, we said, Neva did not narrate to her friends; indeed she could not have done so, for at the point at which our relation of it began, a new arrival arrested the general attention. '"ItHark!" said Margaretta, "The bell again-I wonder whom we are to have now?" And to the wonder of the ladies, kind reader, you must add your own, until a new  chapter enables us to admit the visitor. CHAPTER II. THE   GENTLEMEN. "I FEAR, ladies," said Mr. Authur Merriton, entering and gracefully saluting the trio--"I fear, from the evident interest of your discourse, that I am de trop." "Not more so than usual," answered Margaretta, with that coquettish rudeness which beauty, wit, and wealth, alone ex- cuse. "Thank you," said he, fervently seizing her hand and kiss- ing it with great empressement, while he affected a total mis- apprehension of the irony in her welcome. "Thank you! my dear Miss Pearson. Your general greeting for a stand- ard, I  have nothing to desire in the cordiality of my recep- tion."   "2     , JOCASSEE ; OR IL CAPANNETTO. "Your visit," interrupted the other ladies, "could not have  been more apropos, since we are canvassing our projected country life." "The very subject upon which I came to chat," replied Merriton. "I knew that Miss Pearson would be dying to hear my views." "The precise condition to which your views and your pre- sence usually reduce her," said the scornful belle. "Again, my best thanks!" responded Meriton, with im- perturbable good humour, and secret gratification in teasing the lady, whose displeasure he believed more affected than real. "I knew that my influence with youl was not slight, but I am delighted to find it so extremely effective." "But when, Mr. Merriton, do you join us at ' II Capannet- to V' " said the other ladies, eager to stop the war of words which they anticipated between their Katharine arid her Pe- truchio. 1"II Capannetto?" he returned inquilringly. "Yes ; that is the baptismal of our summer cottage, sug- gested by Doctor Quotem. Is it not sweet, and so charac- teristic, with its gentle and quiet associations?" "O! delicious to those who understand it; and character- istic of quiet, and so on, most certainly; since the taciturn Miss Pearson is one of the fixtures." "And since," rejoined Margaretta, "Mr. Authur Merriton, the bashful, will be- there to save our ears the. discordant noises of the rippling brook and the falling stream." "Again my acknowledgments, Miss Pearson; what absorb- ing attention you pledge to each whisper of my lips, since the voice of nature is to be drowned in its sweetness. The expressive comparison for so modest a person as myself, is too flattering!"  "Mr. Authur Merriton was always unassuming!"   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.      113 "And never was a better judge of that quality than Miss Pearson!" "In the words of Shakespeare, "tis the witness still of ex- cellence to put a strange face upon its own perfection,'" add- ed a new voice. "Quotem! as I live, for that's his card," cried Merriton; and turning around, that gentleman was discovered to have just joined the group. "I give you good day, 'ladies fair and gentles all,' as the old salutation runs," said the new comer. "I dropped in to chat about this intended summering of ours. When, pray, as the couplet goes, are we ' To leave this suffocating lair, For the mountain's balmy air ' " "As the bard elegantly expresses it," added yet another voice, in a sneering tone- "In the course of a week or so- Good Doctor Quotem, we hope for to go!" The company now   welcomed Mr. Heartless, whose ring, like that of Quotem, had not reached the drawing-room. "But, my dear fellow!" he continued, still addressing Quo- tem, " before you start, do, for heaven's sake, cut your cursed proverbs and scraps, your 'as says so and so, in the play.' Why! my life against the trifle of a lady's heart, that when - your post-mortem comes on, your tongue will be found a conglomerated paste of leaves from  Chaucer, Shakespeare, Spencer, Byron, and the Lord knows who, from Hesiod down to the latest crazy rhymer." The offended Doctor Quotem was gravely commencing a defence of his character, with "Mr. Heartless, I beg to say that your discourteous remarks are, as Tacitus has it ;" when he was interrupted by Ellen Vere, who, at Heartless's libellous wager, eagerly took up weapons in defence of her 10*   "4     JOCASSEE ; OR IL CAPANNETTO. sex, as with hin she was always ready to do. "You certain- ly, sir, have not the assurance to claim the heart as more properly the possession of your sex than of ours?" "Indubitably and unequivocally," rejoined Heartless. "In our vernacular the gender of the thing is left neuter. The gallantry of the founders of our tongue forbade their giving the word to us, and their conscience prevented its bestowal upon you. The Frenchman was, despite his politesse, which none will question, more regardful of the truth, and not only denied it to your sex, but was honest enough to award it to ours. As my learned friend, Quotem, will tell you, since he is a polyglot dictionary as well as a library of select poets and prose authors--in the French, the substantive is, in gen- der masculine." "Yes ;'? audibly muttered Quotem, following in his mind the suggestion. "Yes; it is so! in the English-heart- neuter: in the French-cceur-- masculine : rule-all nouns ending in er, asfureur, fury, etc.,femenine, excepting cour, heart, and some others." "And," continued Heartless, ' in the Italian, we find equal trutn; there, also, the word belongs to the masculine cata- logue." "True, again!" muttered Quotem. "Italian--cuore, heart -masculine: rule--substantives  " "Doctor Quotem!" interrupted the ladies deprecatingly, "how ungallant!" "But strictly true, for all that," said the doctor gravely; " and, as the Latin line runs, 'magna est viritas etprceva- ldbit.' " "But," said Neva, now coming to the aid of the discomfitted Ellen, " though your position, Mr. Heartless, is very ingenious- ly maintained, you cannot conquer with such gay badinage, resting only upon the accident of language. All language, you   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.      115 must remember, is arbitrary, and arbitrary things are very apt to be despotic and unjust, both denving and usurping the rights of others! Can you make a syllogism, Mr. Heartless ." "If I should put the question so, Miss Cameron, the ( ergo ' would be fatal to me. I must resign the field to you," he continued, bowing most complimentarily, and evidently with a desire of ending the quarrel, either from weariness, or that he required some less gentle temper than Neva's to strike the flint of his wit. At the same moment he seized a pass- ing opportunity of effecting his wish, as detecting the passing forms in the street below, of Miss Woodlette and Mr. Shel- ton, he flew to the window and motioned them to drop in. When they entered, the coterie-elect (saving only the pre- sence of Mr. Hautleroy,) was complete. The new comers were apprised of the prospect of speedy departure from the city, and upon that approachinc event, the converse now strictly ,ran. It was soon settled that the ladies present, were, the following week, to accompany Mr. Vere's family to " "Capaninetto," or "' the little cottage," and the gentlemen, after waiting a limited time for the ex- pected arrival of Henrey Hautleroy, were to follow. "Now then," said Heartless, when all provisions were filly made, " now that the ' iron gate ' of the 'happy valley' is to close upon us, for some months at least, who can picture to us the appearance and capacities of the place?" "Doctor Quotem has just returned from Eldorado!" cried the ladies. "  Well, then, Quotem, I know you to be a Fenelon at the Calypso business, so pile up the poetry and give us a full length of' I1 Capannetto.' I feel awfully sentimental already. Yonder I  see the bank of thyme, and smell the violets, and there, too, sle-ps Titania." "To do justice," answered Quotem, "to the lovely spot   "6     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. selected by Mr. Vere, for the summer abode of his family and chosen friends, is impossible, and as I shall not attempt so much, if I fall short, ladies and gentlemen, I must excuse myself by reminding you of the lines of Pope- ' In every work regard the author's end; Since none can compass more than they intend; And if the means be just, the conduct true, Applause in spite of trivial faults is due.'  "O! hang Pope, my good doctor," cried Heartless, " and fill up your canvass." "I Capannetto," continued the limner, "is a small cot tage, built in the most faultless taste, and the most pictu-- resque style, in the bosom of a gentle valley. This vale of Jocassee is a perfect Thessaly." "Indeed!" interrupted Heartless, with grave earnestness, "a Thessaly? pray is the briar-bush still standing, into which the enthusiast of nature plunged, much to the detriment of his visual org'ans!" "Jocazsee," continued Quotem, not deigning a reply to the irreverent query, "is several miles in length, and full one mile in breadth; length-wise through the centre, steal the rip- ples of the most charming and pellucid of streams, by whose mirror-like bosom the Indian maiden has often arranged her artless toilet. In one place the river is spanned by a slight and graceful bridge, and at all, its waters are overhung with the most luxuriant vines and shrubs. The bay, the ivy, and the laurel dwell there in the most lover-like embrace. The surface of the valley is diversified by open lawn and shadowy copse ; intricate wood-land and cultivated field ; and environ- ing the cottage itself, is a lovely garden of flowrets, both na- tive and exotic, to win the experienced love of an Eve. The entire valley, excepting only at its southern approach, is seclud- ed from the outward world, by a kingly amphitheatre of im-   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTOo     117 movable hills, wearing their 'green coronal of leaves' in lofty majesty and beauty. As says the philosophic Bryant, in his charming hymn, 'grandeur, strength, and grace, are here.'" Thus in glowing and just colours, Quotem long continued to paint the attractions of the sweet valley, with its vicinage of aspiring peak and wild cascade. Even the incipient twist in the lip of Heartless, vanished, with his sympathy in the general pleasure, and the allusion to the author of "Thana- topsis" was forgiven. With only an occasional repartee be- tween Heartless, Ellen Vere, and Miss Pearson, the most enviable unanimity prevailed. They at length separated, each with a hope of speedy reunion in "I1 Capannetto," or, as Doctor Quotem proverbially said, "We will, as the ghost- ly Caesar speaks, 'meet at Phillipi!'" CHAPTER III. THE TRYST. AT the appointed time, the heroine of Neva's rencontre in the goldsmith's shop, awaited her at the selected tryst. As Miss Cameron had not yet arrived, she indulged in half- spoken reveries, while nervously pacing the ground. "She said her name was Cameron, and at our previous meetings I have thought as much. I cannot be mistaken in her identity! and yet I may be so! I'll soon satisfy myself on1 that head. The result, though, of my inquiries to-day is very satisfactory. And she is not only alive, but in the fami- ly of Pearson, above all others! Well; it is'no new sin on his part, for he has treated her kindly. They say, though, that he wishes to marry her against her will I This must be   "8     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. looked to, for if true, he acts not without an end, and a deep one. But she has been wronged enougfh, already, and the poor child shall have a will of her own in the business; her will shall be mine, and mine shall be his! Yes! I poor- and humble, say that the now great and wealthy Pearson shall not wed his adopted daughter (for so it. seems he calls her) against her love!" Her further soliloquy was interrupted by the hesitating, yet curious approach, of Neva Cameron. ("I thank you for your confidence, my child," said the woman, kindly greeting her. "I fear, madam," answered Neva, "that I am both silly and wrong in granting you this meeting, but a something of seriousness in your manner yesterday, has irresistibly attract- ed me. I hope you are not jesting with me? Be quick in your icommunication, for I must not be long absent." "I meet you, poor child, only for your good, and the love of other days." "' Other days,' madam! What can there ever have been between us? Surely you cannot know the forgotten scenes of my infancy?" "If I do, my design is not to recall them; and I know not, indeed, that the revelation will ever be made or required. I only wish to satisfy myself that you are the person I think you, and if your life is a happy one." "Who is it that is so singular and abrupt in her interest in me?" "Call me friend," replied the woman with gravity. "Call me friend; you will find it a very propelname. You are an orphan, Miss Cameron?" "Alas!" "And you remember not when you became so 8" "Not even vaguely."   JOCASSEE ; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     119 "And as far as your memory serves, you---" "Have been an inmate in the family of my kind benefac- tor and second parent, Mr. Pearson." ' Ah! ' your kind friend,' you say?" "Most certainly." "' And you have received only treatment worthy of grati- tude from yourfriend?" "Nothing less. I owe him all the love and duty of a child." "It is well," said the woman to herself, " but I could alter the balance sheets in your favour ;" and again speaking dis- tinctly to Neva--" yet I am told that your kind benelactor desires tro wed you with a man you despise." "Madam!" "Save your anger, my child. I speak for your good." "And if you do, madam, I thank you; but when I desire your interference between my guardian, and Mr. Shelton and myself, I will ask it." "Shelton!" "Certainly ; I thought you spoke of the addresses of Mr. Stephen Shelton." "God of heaven!" exclaimed the woman, for a moment seeming to dream. ("Is it --! No! it cannot be! What an absurd idea! Miss Cameron, pardon my emotioh-an inexplicable thought was awakened by your words; an idea foolish as its brevity. Your communications render the ob- ject of my desiring this interview unnecessary. Your family, I learn, are to pass the summer in the country. We may meet again, unexpectedly: until then, God be with you!" and Neva was left alone, with the world of curious inquiries upon her lips, unasked. Her first impulse was, naturally, to follow the stranger; but the darkness of evening was already gathering, and in the   120     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO, uncertain light which remained, her keenest glance failed to descry aught of her retreating form in any of the avenues through which she might have fled. For some moments the perplexed maiden stood in wrapt but undefined revery. She taxed her memory for plausible elucidations of the evening's occurrence; for that it was not all baseless, the woman's earnest manner, and some inward whisperings Of her own breast, satisfilctorily assured her. To give these reminiscences of her infant years such local habitation and name as would enable her to use them as a key to the present singular laby- rinth, was now her study, but the Ariadne of memory did not grant the desired clue, and her speculations resulting in nothing, she at length resolved to banish all remembrance of the adventure from her thoughts, and with a quick step hast- ened homeward. We mnust low fly to other scenes and personages; and, first among them, drop in upon Mr. Henry Hautleroy. In the mean time, Neva and her associate ruralizers will journey to the hills, and we will next greet them under the hospita- ble roof of "I1 Capannetto." CHAPTER IV. HENR Y HAUTLEROY. AT the very moment the incidents in our previous chapters were transpiring, there sat, with meditative air, j/n an apart- ment of one of the most fashionable hotels of the old city of Manhattan, a youth of apparently some twenty and two sum- mers. His appearance was all that properly belongs to that sunny period of life; a figure of full and most graceful pro-   JOCASSEE ; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     121 portions, in which were detected, in happy unison, the elas- ticity and grace of youth and the graver dignity of maturer years. There was in his face an expression of much thought and gravity, but it was not the cold, stoical air of the misan- thrope or the ascetic. Besides, it was pleasantly relieved by a winning look of bsnevolence, and, at moments, a slight tinge of a still gayer mood. His whole expression was one of those which one instinctively and de prime abord regards with interest, and an involuntary sympathy. As we said, at the moment of our intrusion, he seemed wrapt in deep speculation, as he sat before a small escrutoire covered with a confused pile of letters, evidently, from the delicacy and dirninutiveness of the characters, in a ladv's hand. These billet doux were inscribed to "Mr. Henry Hautleroy," none other than the gentleman who was at this moment perusing them with such deep interest. The letters, excepting the one in his hand, were addressed to him at his late abode in Europe. This one, his fair corres- pondent, Miss Margaretta Pearson, had penned to greet him on his re-landing in America. Twirling-the missive musing- ly in his fingers, his thoughts ran much in this wise: "I remember her in her childhood, as though it were but yesterday that we united in our infantine sports. Her melmo- rv, as she then was, is distinctv before me ; one, indeed, of those striking and lovely pictures whose tracery never wholly leaves the heart. I well remember, at that period, the boy- ish yearning for riper years, that I might call her in earnest by the sweet title which she then accepted from me in sport. Intercourse with the cold and changeful world has blown awayv many of my childish dreams, but this, even to the pre- sent moment, if I do not deceive myself, wears yet its original hues. It may be a   fancy which one short glance at the change which time must have worked in her, as well as in "   122     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. others, may dissipate. As in childhood the most trifling sports occupy our whole minds, as gravely as the destiny of states the riper intellect, so, also, small and insignificant ob- jects and feelings fill the heart and the eye; and when in after years, we glance backward upon the love we felt for our marbles, our hoops and toys-when we revisit the natural scenes of our infancy, the castle-house in which we were born, and the giant tree tiunder whose shade we sported, we are astonished at their present apparent insignificance. Our toys seem idle, our castle-house, the smallest and most com- mon-place of huts, and our colossal oak, a poor stunted dwarf. The actual presence of these boyishy miscroscoped objects is necessary to strip them of their delusive garb. Years will not do it, while they are, meanwhile, wrapt in the poetizing veil of absence and memory; for we wilfully refuse to reason from analogy, and most tenaciously adhere, while we may, to these pleasing estimates of youth. "Thus, alas, it may prove with me, when my long cherish- ed hope of re-visiting the home of my early years is realized. But supposing that it will not be so-how stands it with Margaretta? Her letters, most surely, from that hour to this, have afforded sufficient grounds to believe her now, as then. If I can read a woman's heart, and pen and paper bear true tracery, her remembrance of me is purer and deeper at this moment than when we parted. In these tell-tale sheets are hidden warmer feelings than the platonic love, which we then (ah! silly creatures that we were) promised to cherish. For myself, I can scarcely speak, not knowing fully my own heart; but my sweet Margaretta, I shrewdly think, has proved this platonic agreement to be what it usu- ally is-a web of that arch-spider Cupid,-and she is the de- luded insect to whom the snarer, with his thumb upon his nose, is triumphantly and tauntingly singing, as in the song:   JOoASSEE; OR IL OAPANNETTO.      123 'Now will you, will you, will you, will you- Walk out Mistress Fly!' She has learnt, with the poet, that sometimes ' Love under Friendship's vesture white, Laughs; his little limbs concealing 1' "Yes, yes; this poetic corresponding for years, without the prose of a meeting, with a fair creature whom you have only seen, and will remember, as she was in the pure, innocent, and unsophisticated nature of girlhood, is very dangerous business. Something must and will come of it, and sly Cu- pid chuckles thus to ensnare his victim. In the first place, even if the writers be true, only the poetry of their characters is displayed, stript of all the common-places which in a per- sonal intercourse would appear, and perhaps prove a whole- some check to credulous love. Then, again, if the writers' motives be insincere, how wide a field for deception. With what impunity may the serpent-pen ensnare its victim. Of this falsity, however, I have never, wilfully, been guilty, and that Margaretta has wielded the insidious quill, is impossible; yet let me see,-in childhood, was it not pride, more than any other feeling, which prompted her to seek a monopoly of the companionsaip of the pretty and rich little Henry Hau- tleroy? She was even at that time terribly proud. Aye, aye, but older years have, doubtless, corrected th t fault, for a tone of sincere and deepening affection pervades all her let- ters. If this love is true, and founded upon grounds which I may have, inadvertently, given in my own share of the cor- respondence, she shall, though she may not realize my early recollections, have the refusal of this poor heart and hand. "But if the letters are masked, may she not also possess the power of making her conduct so? I must-let me think -from   this letter, she is to pass the summer months with some friends in the country, and I am urged to make one of   124     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. the party at 'II Capannetto,' (a name, by the way, in good keeping with my fair correspondent's letters.) Ellen Vere, my old playmate, is to be there, and she writes;; 'a sweet creature '-what'sqher name?-ah, ' Neva Cameron,' besides others. I must go!" and then, as a sudden thought struck him, while he scattered the letters about the floor, with the Vigour of his hand-fall upon the table, "I must go! IBy the powers of love-no you don't, Cupid, dear! I have it! I have it! and, as that fellow, Quotem, of whoin she writes so amusingly, would express my idea, drawing upon Mr. Ham- let,-- 'The play--the play's the thing, Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king!' "Yes! with my play, I'll catch the conscience of my love, and if successfully, to better purpose than did the Danish coward."' At this moment, the reveries of our hero were suddenly ended by the entrance of a servant, with the card of a visitor. "Ah," said he to himself, t"Carrolton ; his odd affair may keep me some time from I Capannetto ;" and then address- ing the servant--"show him up-show him   up stairs at once." CHAPTER V. THE   VISITOR. WE must keep the visitor in the vestibule, while we nar- rate, in as few words as may be, the incidents which intro- duced him to our hero's acquaintance. In his return from the continent, Mr. Hautleroy made a descent upon the garden lands of England, rambling with - 'f                  ,   I   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.      125 infinite pleasure among the numerous scenes of classic and historic remembrance, and visiting, with a curious eye, all the public institutions, of whatever nature. Among other things, lie rambled through the dreary cells of many of those melan- choly structures, habited by the poor wretches in whom the god-like- lamp of reason had been extinguished; his philo- sophic mind deeply interested in the diverse characters of human madness. It was in one of these institutions in a remote shire, that he encountered a man, whose condition quickly awakened in ' his heart more than usual interest. He seemed depressed by the incubus of a deep melancholy and a sullen despair, and for some time all Hautleroy's efforts failed to awaken his at- tenfion. "He is," said the attendant, " one of those fiequent cases who fancy themselves sane, and with every show of reason persist in denying their madness." At these words the wretch looked up, and seeming to read an air of sympathy in the heart of the visitor, aroused himself from his lethargy, and gazed earnestly in his face. Hautle- roy was deeply struck with the look of profound and rational grief, and continued, in a kind tone, to address him. The prisoner, observing that the attention of the keeper was called off, motioned the visitor to an adjoining recess, where, strictly concealed from observation, he spoke in an eager yet hopeless tone- "O! sir, for the love of heaven! if you have one particle of kindness, of human compassion, of justice, listen to the tale, the pitiable tale of an unfortunate wretch. O! listen,'and do not believe it, as 'they would tell you, only the ravings of a madman!" "Speak on, sir," answered Hautleroy, his belief in the "*   126     JOCASSEE ; OR IL OAPANNETTO. man's imbecility more and more shaken. "Speak, and what I can do for you, I will." "O, sir," was the reply, in tones of most earnest gratitude, "may a merciful heaven bless and reward you! I must be brief, or those cruel men will send you away, and this only ray of hope which has for years lighted my cell, will be dark- ened." "Fear nothing, sir," answered Hautleroy, " but be as brief as possible with your story." "He, he," continued the prisoner, pointing to the attend- ant, " is not my keeper. Mine must be ill to-day, for he sel- dom is absent, and watches me with a closeness which proves that, from some inscrutable cause, my detention here is vio- lent and malicious. This man is not so harsh ; on the con- trarv, so kind, that at times I have hoped to gain his heart and effect my liberty. He is an honest fellow, and acts only from duty*" "But to your tale, sir," interrupted Hautleroy, with impa- tient curiosity. "How came you here, and why, if you are sane, as I believe, are you detained?" "Your first question, sir, I think I can answer, but the other is a dark mystery to me. I am now, sir, as you see, an old man, and such I have become within these walls. My last recollections of liberty are with the hey-day of my youth. I am, sir, an American." "Ah!" ejaculated Hautleroy, "my countryman!" "Thank God, then," cried the man joyfully. -"I am then safe! and my history shall soon be said. While very young, reckless, and dissipated, I came on a visit to this country, bringing with me a young wife and a child some three years old. I soon fell in with a young countryman-a desperate villain, who quickly completed the ruin which my wild habits   JOCASSEE; OR IL OAPANNETTO.      127 had already far accomplished. Her heart broken by my cruel conduct and neglect, I soon after laid my lovely wife in her grave. This dreadful blow, for a while, made me pause upon the infernal abyss I was approaching; but the serpent soon again wound me in his meshes, and was now aided by another. This second person, however, was more his weak tool than depraved accomplice. "Follyv succeeded folly, and even objectless crime, until one fatal day, in a violent quarrel between my associates and my- self, the younger of the two miscreants, as I well remember, aimed a dagger at- my heart. Of my life from 'that moment, until within a year past, as you shall hear, I recollect nothing. I suppose, from scars now upon my person, that I was badly wounded, and that violent illness was followed by insanity. That must have been fifteen years ago, at least, and my loss of reason continued until a year since, at which time I first became conscious of my  situation. Judge of my despair when I found all my protestations of recovered health discred- ited, either from ignorance or from some villainous design." At this moment the keeper approached, and EHautleroy pledging hs influence for the prisoner's release, took his leave of the asylum, meditating the best means of assisting the un- fortunate man. If detained from unlawful cause, he felt that it would be in vain to apply to the keeper, or rather the acting keeper, for the man under whose special charge the prisoner was, though not the director himself, was nevertheless the law-giver of the establishment. He felt that, to prove his sanity, would be a long and uncertain effort, and that, on the contrary, any ef- fort of the kind  might result in harsher treatment of the victim.  His final determination was to attempt his release through the benevolence, or justice, or cupidity of the attend- ,     *   128     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. ant, under whose charge he had found hiim. We shall not detail the means by which he finally accomplished this pur- pose. After the rescue of his new friend, Hautleroy learned from hin the further particulars, that though from America, he never had many acquaintances there, having, when a child, accompanied his father to the West Indies, where, after ac- cumulating a large fortune, this parent died. With his young wife and infant child lle soon after removed to Boston. There he lived in riotous dissipation for a short time, and then made the visit to England which resulted so fatally. So much had his mind and body been weakened by his long sickness, that he strove in vain to remember even the names of his viciotis associates. Thus he was unable to learn anything of them; and his child, he little doubted, had soon followed its mother to a brighter and better land. lHe accepted Hautleroy's in- vitationl to- accompany him to his native home, and after the voyage he--bent his steps to Boston, in the hopeless errand,- as both Hautleroy and" himself believed it-of gaining some intelligence of his child and fortune. It was upon his return from this visit, that the unfortunate Mr. Carrolton now asked an audience of his friend. "Welcome back, my good sir-welcome back!" cried Hautleroy,-as the gentleman entered, "with good news, I hope-but yet I fear." "Ah, my dear young friend, my news, for news I have, is but bad." "Then let it go for the present, my dear sir; it will, at latest, be soon enough.'spoken." "I am not so great a stranger to grief," answered Mr. Car- rolton, with a sad smile, " as to be frightened by a slight dis- appointment. You shall hear, at once, my ill success."   JOCASSEE ; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     129 -"Well, then, my dear sir, be seated, and believe that I shall hardly feel less grief than yourself, at whatever disap- pointments you have met." Mr. Carrolton smiled his thanks, and continued--"My visit, at least, throws some light upon the motive for my in. carceration. I found that by the very few who slightly knew me, and who yet live, I am fully believed to be dead. And fromn them also, I learned that I had, by will, left all my pro- perty to a man named Jennings. This man, soon after my death was reported, took undisputed possession of my effects, and afterwards sold them and left Boston, and went, no one knew whither, for he has never been heard of since." "The villain, doubtless, who effected your ruin and after misery," exclaimed Hautleroy. "It can be no other," answered the visitor, " but I have no recollection of the name." "t It may have been an assumed one," suggested tHautle- roy.  "Villainous plot! But, my dear sir, rest assured that the scoundrel will yet be brought to justice; and already has Providence commenced its punishment of the crime, in rescu- ingyou from  their toils. Your jailers in England were, in all probability, the mniscreant's agents, and he himself is, doulbt- less, not far off. A return to England will be necessary. In the meanwhile you must publish' this daring story to the world." "No, no," said the visitor; "I think it best for the pre- sent to be silent. If he is in America, and should hear of tny escape, it will only give him warning to elude my grasp." "He  will, though," answered Hautleroy, " soon learn the news through his agents who guarded you, if, by the-way, they should not be aftraid to communicate it to him. Per haps, however, your course is best. And now, what steps do you next propose "   130     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. "To return to-morrow to Boston, and there, while pursu- ing my inquiries, recruit my health. After a time, I shall probably follow the advice of my physician, and make a visit to some warmer climate-perhaps my old home in Jamaica." "If that is your course, sir," said Hautleroy, " it will be all in your way to pay me a visit during the summer, in Chat les. ton, or rather at a country residence in Carolina, where I am to meet a circle of friends. The climate will suit you most admirably, and when it becomes too cold, you can continue your tour to Jamaica. You promise speedily to join me there, or to accompany me ." "Ah, my dear young friend," replied the visitor with emo- tion, whatever your climate is, your's must be a land of warm hearts, if there are many like your own." Hautleroy gaily disclaimed any right to such a compli- ment; and the servant, at this moment announcing another visitor below, Mr. Carrolton took his leave. CHAPTER VI. THE   VALET DE CIIAMBRE. IN the face and figure of the new visitor, none, at all fa- miliar with national peculiarities and airs, could, for an in- stant, have failed to recognize a son of that sea-girt isle, which, as a birth-place, the poet says, "men are proud to claim ;" but at the same time, with- the slightest possible intimacy with Lavater, they would have seen, that whatever love and pride the favoured child might cherish for his father-land, that father-land had no very especial cause to be particularly vain of its offspring. Taking the original significance of the   '     * i   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.      131 term gentleman, the same in which it is understood by the lower classes of European states-a title- of the wealthy and indolent man, of gentle birth and life-he had no claim whatever to the cognomen; and, if we may anticipate our his- tory a little, he had still less claim to the name, in the accep. tation of rmoral rectitude, given in our own republican land. Indeed, his was that slavish manner, at once characterirtic of the servility accustomed to bow to the beck and will of oth- ers.  This character is far more distinctive, under the domi- nation of aristocratic rule, than in a clime like ours, where all men feel themselves in equal position. Hautleroy's life, how- ever, passed abroad, had rendered him  more familiar with the prejudices of the former ; and instinctively recognizing the station of his visitor, he received him with that cold abrupt- ness, and calm graciousness, which mark the general demea- nour of the superior towards the inferior. The man, as he entered the apartment, with a deferential bow, proffered a  billet, with "a note, sir, from Mr. Joseph Shelton." Mr. Joseph Shelton, the father of Mr. Stephen Shelton, with whom the reader is already acquainted, was a wealthy and respectable citizen, "a grave and reverend seigneur " of the city of New-York, and among those to whom letters from the elder Hautleroy had been sent to meet his son on his arrival in that city. The letter of introduction Mr. Hautle- roy had duly despatched with his card to Mr. Shelton's man- sion, and had made such acquaintance with him, as might follow from such courtesy, and its return, in a formal call and proffer of service from the other party. Willing to further his intimacy with his father's friends by placing himself under some nominal obligations, he had ac- cepted his offers of service, in so far as a mention of his de- sire to procure a competent and faithful body servant. This   132     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. luxury, though not very common with those even of his own station at home, had become so habitual to him in his foreign life, that he felt unwilling to forego it now. The billet of Mr. Shelton, senior, was in memory of this expressed desire, and ran thus: My Dear Sir : In answer to your intimation regarding a valet, iti-ives me great pleasure to have stumbled upon one, every way suitable and deserving of your confidence. The bearer is a worthy man, and in many prints a very desirable fellow; indeed, I may say, a perfect treasure. He is at pre- sent out of employ, and will esteem it an honour to enter your service. Touching accomplishments, you will catechise him at your pleasure, and in all points, I think, to your satisfac- tion. Happy, with the opportunity of rendering you this slight service, I am sir, your obedient servant, JOSEPH SHELTON. Fourth-street, Monday Afternoon. "You desire," said the young gentleman, addressing the visitor, after a glance at the note, " to enter my service .' "I should hold myself fortunate, sir, if you thought me suitable." "You are an Englishman?.' "Yes, sir." "And your name is  ?" "My name-," answered the man, hesitating, from some cause or other, "my name-ahem--" "Yes, sir! vyour name. Have you forgotten it, or is it so difficult a one to speak?" "Brown, sir: John Brown," returned the man, this time with. promptness--having, meanwhile, settled in his mind whatever difficulty had arisen. "Ah, no wonder you were perplexed to find it in such a   a-.         JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     133 ! - crowd as there is, of similar ones," said the querist, relaxing the stern look of suspicion which had gathered for a moment in his eye. He still, however, continued to regard him keen- ly, not extremely predisposed in his favour, as he added- "You come recommended from a respectable source, sir." "Yes, sir: I had the honour to serve Mr. Shelton some years ago in England, besides several noblemen, from whom I have characters." "Well, well; I suppose you deserve them. Your duties, in my service, will not be arduous: little more than to be always ready-in case you should be required. I am going to the South, and may pass the summer in the country-" "In the country, sir 2," interrupted the valet in a voice of disappointment. "I thought you were going to spend the season in Charleston, with-your friends, and Mr. Pearson, and his family." "The devil!" ejaculated Hautleroy. "What do you know about my friends, and Mr. Pearson and his family; and still more, what do they concern you?' "I beg pardon, sir," interrupted the valet with embarrass- ment. " hMr. Shelton, in speaking of the advantages of your service, mentioned Charleston, and the names of your friends there, with great praise. I spoke without thinking." "You are bold enough, certainly," added Hautleroy, "and very nice in your tastes, since you canvass the eligibility of not only your master, but his residence and his associates. Upon my soul! Mr. Shelton, too, must hold you in high esteem, to enter into such particulars with you. But if it is a matter of moment with you, it is those very Charleston friends with whom I design spending my time in the coun- try. Now, is the country endurable to you 8?" "Spare me, sir ; I meant no offence, and shall be happy to act your pleasure in every thing." 12   134     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. "Well, that is more to my purpose. Call upon me to- morrow, at ten, and-we will talk further of this business. Good night." "I will be punctual, sir," replied the applicant, obeying the implied command to retire. As he did so, he stooped to replace a card which had- fallen from the table--the card of the last visitor. Glancing at its face, as be did so, the name called firom him an involuntary cry of surprise. "' Carrolton!' good G-d! What Cairolton is that, sir 2" Hautleroy, supposing the action of picking up the stray card, a mere commencement of his service, as indeed the man had designed it, scarcely noticed it, until he was filled with astonishment at this sudden and rude exclamation. "You know your place, certainly, sir, to put such abrupt questions! I must teach you better manners! That is the name of an old friend of mine, and what on earth have you to do with it?" The man was evidently relieved by the reply, and blunder- ed out something about an old crony of his, of the same name, whom he had not met for many a year, and whom at the instant he foolishy fancied might be the same, ending with most humble suit for pardon of his unintentional offence. Hautleroy fairly laughed outright at the reply. "Calpi- tal, capital! An old crony of yours, and old friend of mine, identified! An old crony of your's, with a card at all! I must put down your overpowering love for your old crony as a  veil to your presumption; and once more he motioned him to retire. "Bv the rood!" he ejaculated when the man was gone there is something about this fellow that savours of the mysterious, or else he is a most incredible innocent. But Shelton recommends hin--I'll call upon him--at once!--no, I'll edngagh the fellow, if it be only to satisfy the little grain   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     135 of curiosity in my mind. This Carrolton business is, I sup- pose, simply what he says it is, but I'll mention it to him, if I think of it, when I meet him again." CHAPTER VII. THE VALLEY   AND COTTAGE. IN vain was the presence of 5r1. Hautleroy expected by his friends in Charleston. At length, when after the lapse of several weeks, formal intelligence was received of his arrival in New-York, and his necessary detention by certain affairs in that city, still longer, and indefinitely, the gentlemen hasten- ed to join their fair companions, already domiciled in the country. We promised to rejoin them at II Capannetto, and at that fairy villa, dear reader, we now set you down. Remember that it is the noon of broiling summer; you have just left the poisoned atmosphere, natural and moral, of the crowded city, and are now enjoying the exhilarating tem- perature of pure, untutored  Nature: the cheek of the fair dame was never more rosy than at this moment; her eye never more sparkling; her lip never more voiceful. What a spirit of repose and buoyancy pervades the scene! How you feel, with Willis, looking at the morning sunbeams steal- ing over the summits of those encircling hills-that it is " a morn for life, in its most subtle luxury." How light you are of heart! how your whole frame and soul beat in harmony with the indefinable essence of delight and hilarity, that laughs in every particle of the air around you! It affects your whole nature, physical, iental, and moral. Your limbs are freer and your nerves stronger than they are wont. Your   136     JOCASSEiEl; OR IL CAPANNETTO. intellect is swept of its cobwebs, and you look upon all mats ters with a keener and clearer head. Your heart is purer, more generous; you feel less selfish, and cherish more of love to your neighbor and your God. We know this to be your feeling, reader, for we take you for, no less than ourself, one of soul and kindly sympathies, and they are our own emo- tions. So also are they those of each of the inhabitants of the valley in which you stand. Look at the group! There--upon the piazza of the pic- turesque villa before you! How furtively the newly born sunbeams are stealing through the vine covered trellis-work! See -the pure pleasure enthroned on each sniling countenance. There is the lovely Margaretta Pearson, in a robe of simple white, with kindred hued flowerets amid her luxuriant hair. The smile on her lip speaks of pleasure within. She is less -worldly and selfish in heart than when she left the citv two short weeks ago. Nature has been a salutary monitor to her. She has good in her nature, and the proper means are bringing it forth. Near her is Ellen Vere, arrayed in sister garb. She is standing with her hands crossed upon her friend's shoulder, and--ah, envied hands--they are cushions for her fair face. Her accustomed air of haughty coldness and sneering indifference has vanished, and her eyes are bent upwards towards the gentlemen, from whose lips some gay jests are falling. Ellen! you, also, have a heart, though it has long lain perdu, in the mass of the hollow pestilential incense, which has gathered around it, since you first were of an age to be flattered. The sweet enchantress, Nature, is bringing that lost heart to light. Could you, indeed, gaze upon such a scene as that now under your eye, with your usual insen sibility, we should regard you as less than woman. Look at Neva Cameron! She is roaming, like a released fawn, through the tortuous garden paths, -watching the   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.      137 matchless effect of bright Sol's amours, as growing bolder in his ascent, his kiss rests upon leaf after leaf, and'glade after glade, until soon the whole scene will be wrapt in his warm embrace. "It seems," she says with enthusiasm, "as though all Nature's lieges were bowed at their matin prayers, while the masses of vapour stealing upward through the. whole valley may be taken for clouds of incense, ascending to Nature's God;" and now she is warbling a parody of Tom Moore's song- (' Sweet vale of Jocassee, How calm could I rest!" Authur Merriton is joyous as the morn. How pleased he seems, in watching the delight around him! Heartless, too, is much less heartless than of old. Mr. Stephen Shelton, indeed, stands somewhat apart from the rest, and his thoughts appear not to be wholly engrossed by the charms around him. A slight curl of sinister mean- ing is upon his lip. Never is there much to love in his appearance, but at this particular moment, like many others, there is not a little to fear. Miss Woodlette is quietly seated, with a face placid and peaceful as the rippling stream, pursuing its quiet way not a hundred yards before her; by her side is Doctor Quotem, with a huge copy of Woodsworth open before him. He is calling her attention to the description of the "Valley of the Solitary" in the ("Excursion." "Full many a spot , /  Of hidden beauty, have I chanced to espy, \ Among the mountains; never one like this; i  So lonesome and so perfectly secure, - In rugged arms how soft it seems to lie 1 How tenderly protected I  *  *  *   peace is here Or nowhere." 12*   138      JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. He has finished reading, and Heartless has just snatched a paper which has dropped from   the folds of the book. It seems, from the general hilarity and the doctor's eagerness to regain possession of it, that some one of the group has been guilty of play ing poet. Heartless has mounted a chair, and, in answer to the popular voice, is reading the manu- script. Will you, reader, give ear to Quotem's SONG TO JOCASSEE. On the hills, and crags, and the raging sea, And in caverns deep, some bend the knee To nature's charms--and each worthily: But the quiet vale is the shrine for me, And of vales, the sweet vale of Jocassee. In the deep gloomy cavern's mystery, Objects of grace and wonder there be, To fill with delight the curious e'e: But the gentle vale above all for me, And of valleys, the vale of Jocassee. On the mountain height with its vistas free, Par as the enraptured eye can see, Dwell loveliness and sublimity; But the gentle vale above all for me, And of vales, none sweeter than Jocassee. On the rough crags' wild acclivity, Again may the cold heart beat merrily; But the shadowed lawn, with the shrub and tree, That adorn the vale, forever for me, And such is my valley of Jocassee. On the hills and crags, and the raging sea, And in caverns deep, some bend the knee To nature's charms-and each worthily: But the quiet vale is the shrine for me, And of valleys, the vale of Jocassee, '   JOCASSEE; OR XL CAPANNETTO     .139 CHAPTER VIII. CHT CHAT. IN our last chapter, dear readers, we had you safely houseda -within the precincts of the quiet valley; and there, with our mutual friends, the actors in this veritable narrative, we shall henceforth hold you prisoners, since we know not that we shall again have to mingle in the great world. Such associa- tion, indeed, in the mere search of incident and romance, would at all times be superfluous, but in this instance espe- cially so. Within the bosom of Jocassee, where the unob- serving eye would seek only dull monotony-a dead stag- nance of life, passediscenes, which, though common enough and utterly unnoticed, occur every day, in real life around us, yet when held up to our minds, in one view by the pen of the-historian, meet only with a doubting smile, and are looked upon as " a tale that is told." Ah, little would one think how much of the " smiles and tears of life's histories" beamed and flowed in this secluded vale, during the two brief months occupied in the action of our drama! If, dear readers, these smiles and tears are only the fantasies of the author's brain, yet, nevertheless, indulge yourself in a faith in their reality--as you'indulge yourself in a credulous trust that the world itself, its hopes and fears, its pleasures, honours, friendships, and loves, are not, as they really are-empty dreams. Such delusions are pleasant-and many 'neath their spell, occupied as we are now, have, forgetting even the griping hand of poverty and its concomitant miseries, been ', More blest than kings-like Tam O'Shanter glorious, O'er all the numerous ills of life victorious!" Thus wrapt, what was it to them, that while others were   "O     JOCASSEE; OR IL COAPANNETTO. toasting their precious toes by a December fire, they were manoeuvreing a matrimonial alliance between the lappels of their venerable coats; that while the stumps of their cigars were extended ia mortal throes before their eyes, their pocket- search for the " splendid shilling" to purchase their successors, was vain; that while a voice within them was earnestly cry- ing, "Arise Peter, kill and eat!" the heavens were not open- ed, neither was the " vessel as it had been a great sheet, knit at the four corners, and crammed with all manner of edibles, (such even, as theywere,) let down into their garrets." All these ddsagr6mens were to them  less real than the pleasing dreams in which they were revelling. As the words flowed from the point of their little steel gabbler, each was to their ears audible; with its surprise they wondered, with its sentiment they sympathized, with its pleasantries they laughed. Such, beloved readers, is ever a writer's delight, amidst the imaginary groups which he gathers about him. Sqch is our own pleasure while we greet you in our present littleparty. Some of them are people after our own heart, and from all we trust to extract some profit or pleasure. We would, therefore, seek to interest you in them, and to this end, shall let slip no opportunity to further your better acquairtance. The unbridled chit-chattery of the home-circle offers as good an index to character as one might wish--suppose, then, that you listen, with -us, to the gossip which followed the reading of poor Quotem's devoted song. "'Hung  be the heavens in black,'" cried Miss Pearson with all the passion and fervour of that model of firmness and constancy, Queen Anne, " that I should live to see my dear friend reduced to that last stage of idiocy-verse-mak- ing! Alas, alas!  this fatal country air!" "O!" added Ellen Vere, "  he is crazed beyond doubt, but, then, there is a Hamletian method in his madness which is   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     141 quite prettv. He shall be our prince of lunatics, and at an early day he shall be pompously crowned- His subjects shall gather in sylvan fete, And wreath him fair Jocassee's laureate." ;"Miss Vere," retorted Quotem slyly, and alluding to the rhyming close of her speech, "Miss Vere appears to be mak- ing some pretensions to share the crown of the monarch elect!" This repartee turned the laugh upon the lady, and Mr. Heartless, from a malicious twinkle of his eve, cherished an intent to increase her confusion, when. drawing a paper from his pocket, he again mounted his chair. "If Miss Ellen," said he, " is to be queen, I think I must set up my own pretensions to the crown over my dear Doc- tor Quotem's. These verses are to his as Hyperion to Satyr. I wrote them." "O!" shrieked Margaretta, "Mr. Heartless making poetry! What a dreadful epidemic! Do, do kill the poor wretch and put him out of his misery!" When Mr. Heartless had succeeded in allaying the univer- sal horror, induced by his astonishing confession, he con- tinued, "I wrote them--not to-day, or yesterday; for then, and now, I was and am perfectly sane. I wrote them some three years ago, when half recovered from one of the most dread- ful attacks of hydrophobia of which it would be possible to conceive. I was bit by that mad-dog," -- "What! old Towser, that uncle Henry killed three years ago?" interrupted Margaretta. *"No," returned Heartless, "by that mad-dog, Cupid! The wound was severe and venomous. For two long months (short ones I loved to think them at the time) I suffered from it, and but for a most fortunate turn at the very crisis of the   "2      JOCASSEEt; OR IL CAPANNETTO. attack, I might have fallen a victim!-a victim to love! ha, ba, ha!" The ha, ha, ha's of the whole group were long and hearty at the very idea of the unhappy gentleman suffering from afflictions of such a nature. When silence again followed ;,  he continued, opening his paper, and fixing his eye upon Ellen Vere, until the unbidtlen rose mantled her face and neck-- ,In these lines, which welre written soon after the aforesaid crisis, I have recorded the nature of my affliction, and the happy cause of my recovery.   They are as follows, and bear the abstruse and erudite title of ASK PAPA! Fair Cynthia was sleeping on her azure -bed, And the stars round her couch their radiance shed; The soft dews of the even' in deep silence fell- Save only their echo--their trespass to tell; When--my arm round the waist of my sweet Ellen Vere, I ventured to breath this soft talein her ear. ' The face of the night-queen, dearest, is not so free From stain as the love which I cherish for thee; No; nor is the soft dew of the even' so pure-- The light of the stars so unchanging and sure; And the happiest of mortals I ever shall be, Will my Ellen but breathe the same tale to me!" As the fair girl looked up-though I could not tell why- I fancied I saw a sly glance in her eye; But of doubt and of dream there remained not a bit, When with a gay laugh she unelosed her sweet lip, And most cruelly nipping my romance-ah, ah! She whispered, in softest tones, ' Ask my papa!" The ghosts of ancient love passages between Ellen and Heartless, hlead been long flitting before the eyes of their friends, and this palpable avowal of their reality was hailed   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     143 as a god-send by all present, who cherished either a love of revenge or a passion for quizzing. Heartless, by thus turn- ing, as it were, State's evidence, shielded himself from this bantering punishment, but at the cost of the devoted Ellen, an avalanche of squibs, and quirks, and remnants of wit, was tottering upon every lip. The bravery with which she was wont to play with Mr. Heartless, at King Richard's and Lady Anne's "' keen encounter of wits," for once deserted her, and vowing revenge with the air of a lovely and spoilt vixen, she flew from the group as speedily as flies the damsel of fifteen from the lover's tryst, when the echo of papa's foot-step plays herald to his approach. She might have sustained herself with the dignity  of outraged courtesy, only that she felt her own lack of tender mercies in times past, towards her tormen- tor, not only justified his cruel treatment, but gave it the diamond's keenness. "Do you not think, Mr. Heartless," asked Neva Cameron, when the gentleman's self-felicitations upon his escape were ended, "Do you not think, that, instead of that period of your life being one of folly, your whole career bears that cha- racter, and that moment was a solitary gleam of reason, of nature, and of heart?" "O0, Miss Cameron! The ignorance of the -age is truly surprising! You are, indeed, groping in the valley of the shadow of darkness. The simple truth is, that the gods- you remember the saying-were resolved to destroy me. To 'accomplish their ends, they thus lead their ;ictims into these singular infatuations, brought about by high nervous excite- ment and senseless dreaming. Many never recover from  the fatal credulity, until too late. Happily that ' ask papa,' was to me the open-sesame to the temple of reason; and now, having once compared the fields of common sense with the   "4     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.           domains of dream-land, I am henceforth armed against such snares." "And you now believe yourself invulnerable. So also did i Monsieur Achilles after his ducking," said Mr. Shelton. "Ah, but my shield has many thicknesses, plated from ac- I cumulated sheets of trumpet-tongued observation. Wlien   1 that galvanic 'ask papa' struck my ear, and opened to me  t the whole consequence of my fully, I remembered that if my ladv-love was young and handsome, she had, as Shakespeare says, 'the gift to know it;' that ' If she had a bosom white as snow, She knew how much 'twas best to show :' here was one plate in my adamantine shield. If nature and grace spoke in the figure and carriage, I thought of art and milliners: here was another thickness in my armour. If her voice was the melodious treble in the salon, I bethought Ine of the harsh 'second-' reserved for home consumption: an- other plating. If neatness and elegance marked the outward A woman on the thronged pave, I dreamed of morning disha-  . billes and twisted love-letters: another thickness. If feet  were small, I thought of smaller shoes. If cheeks were bloom- ing, oh, the expense of rouge. If teeth sparkled, I cursed my i rasping dentist: thus another, another, and another coat upon my well made shield!"! "Nay, nay, Mr. Heartless," interrupted Miss Cameron, "your shield is thick enough, if it were only solid material. : It is but your own insufferable vanity that imputes such falsi- ty to our sex. mho, pray, is the suspicious man but the   ] guilty? Who rails at wealth but the poverty-stricken wretch . Who question love and truth, save the soulless and false?" "Nay, Miss Neva, I speak not in mere irony. Tell me if nine poor Bendicts out of ten have not eventually found their   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     145 foolish homage to woman to have been paid at the shrine of their own luxuriant fancies? Do they not discover with the German Weiland, that with the first kiss of possession, the airy frost-work of courtship melts away 8 Is not marriage proverbially the lifting of an Isis veil, when what promised so much is found to be a mere blank? Though courtship is the oie d'or of the fairy tale, is not wedlock the assassination of the poor goose.? Are not courtship and marriage like the cup of the Lacedaemonians, the upper part white, clear, and pure, while the roseate hue of the bottom of the glass serves only to hide the nauseous draughts which lurk beneath? While courtship may be a long avenue of delight, with a mirror, at its close, promising an illimitable extension of the rapturous scene, is not marriage the cold blank, found when this mirror, (which may resemble the matrimonial altar) is, in the attempt to pass, shivered? Did not Socrates find these truths written in burning characters at the bottom of his poi- soned cup 8 Have not many seen the gyrations of broom- sticks over their fated heads, fancifully wreath themselves into the same speaking lessons?" "But," he cried, jumping from his rostrum, and out of breath with his eager declamation, "I must bring back my truant Lady Disdain, that she may inhale the sweets of my logic!" Thus ending, the speaker, amid the plaudits of his audi- ence, beat his retreat. 13   "6.     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. CHAPTER IX. THE  CONSPIRATORS. "WHAT an insufferable egotist!" cried Miss Pearson, when Heartless was fairly off uDon his self-imposed mission. "Would that we could devise some method of rebuking his arrogance!" "My very thought," added Mr. Merriton; "I was upon the point of proposing a little divertissement to that end." "' O, do, do!" cried all.. "'Any thing! we'll promise to as- sist you. O, if we could only get Mr. IHeartless in love!" , "My very idea, again," returned Mr. Merriton. "Do you  ' know I fancy Mr. Heartless one of those persons who talke i pleasure in proclaiming himself worse' than he is; one who talks, too, as much for his amusement as any other object. He has moved so much in the world, especially in the gay and dissipated circles, that he has insensibly imbibed the fashionable infidelity, and takes a pleasure in the advocacy of his engrafted sentiments: not that he actually cherishes them, or really questions the blessings or power of love." "Question, indeed," interrupted Doctor Quotem indignant- ly. "Does not Plutarch say that 'love and marriage are gifts of the gods to '-" "Well, well, doctor," 'resumned Arthur, " a truce to poor Plutarch, and listen to my schenie. I was about saying that ! so far from his questioning the reality of love, he, like all the  human family, cherishes the secret hope of some day finding an altar whereon he may offer the oblation of his confidence, and earnestly pray the, holy fire to descend upon the sacri- fice." "You mean," added Quotem, "that as Byron says, he be- lieves   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.      147 ' Although he has found them not, That there may be words which are things. That two or one, are almost what they seem, That goodness is no name, and happiness no dream.'" "Precisely, doctor; and if I may add to the draught upon your author, he sometimes prays, in his heart, to the ele- ments to accord him such a being. Now, I think that since the tranquillity of country life has softened his skepticism, and brought him back to nature, that if we could only manage to make him believe in the existence of a heart, in one of our friends, he might be wholly reclaimed. Between Miss Vere and himself, as we have long suspected, there once existed some symptoms of the tender passion, and which I am fully persuaded they still mutually cherish. Now, a little plot, against the better feelings of each, will perhaps make two poor fools happy, or at least give us a capital laugh." "And full revenue," added Quotem, " for the reams he has thrown at us of his 'paper bullets of the brain,' as the poet says." "Mr. Merriton," asked Neva, "is it a little rehearsal of Benedict and Beatrice in the play, which you propose?" "Not exactly, though that, indeed, suggested the thing to my mind. How do you think, Miss Neva, he will bear the poor I married man's tooth-ache?'" "I do riot know, Mr. Merriton, but I should like very much to see him writhing under it! Do-tell us how the happy end is to be accomplished! Imprimis?" "Imprimis, then--the ladies must sympathize with Miss Vere in her resentment toward Heartless, propose to her the punishment of a serious siege of his heart, and at the same time lay a' wager with her that with all her prowess she can- not bring him to her feet. Thus you will enlist her anger   "8     JOOASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. and her vanity-two very strong passions (pardon me) in woman-kind." "It shall be done!" exclaimed all, "and then Mr. Merri- ton, what next?" "In the second place, we will enlist Heartless's vaunted powers, in a similar manner; depend upon it, both will make I caretfil and serious assaults, and as they will each be ignorant of the other's design, we may, by judicious management, persuade Heartless that Ellen receives his addresses seriously, while you instil the belief in the mind of Ellen that they are seriously made. Both thus believing in the sincerity of the other, the assumed feeling in each will insensibly grow into real and grave emotion. The games will be caught, and then comes the time to reveal the caste!" Mr. Merriton's plan was highly applauded, secrecy and fidelity mutually pledged; and before the day passed, the wa- gers were proffered and accepted. CHAPTER X. THE   EXCURS IO N.  - IT was on a day subsequent to the occurrence of the last chapter's incidents, that the party for the first time left the 4 precincts of the valley to visit the remarkable cascades of the - '"Wlite-Water," in the goirges of the adjacent mountain. On   the morning selected for this excursion, the human ther- mometers stood, to speak within bounds, at least at 100. All was life, animation, hilarity, and joyous expectation. Why! the ordinary attractions of such a ramble, in such a season, and on such a  day-the giant hills, the brave old   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.      149 woods, the foaming streams, were sufcicint to make the mer- cury crazy; but to these charms, add a general eagerness to allay curiosity, touching certain tales with which this same excursion was connected, and then imagine the enchantment, if you can. On no less than three several occasions, when the gentlemen had returned from hunting, had they tantalized the ladies with vague reports of an encounter with some stranger knight, whose pleasures seemed to centre in an old portfolio, in which he was ever scratching some delicate mor- ceau of the lovely scenery of the neighbourhood. Some- times this incognito was alone, and again, accompanied by a second stranger, seeming quite as well satisfied to dispense with all society, but his own, as was the other. :Now who were these, La Mancha men, and of what were they in quest in these "Green Mountains?"  Was the limner another un- fortunate Cardenio, or was be, forsooth, the knight of the sorrowful figure himself, and his companion the veritable San- cho? Who, and. what were they? These were questions which the coming visit promised to solve, and our city belles had been long enough in the seclusion of country life to feel an eager interest in the slightest breeze of novelty. But this was not all; this was but the share of the demoi- selles. The old people had their portion of wonder, about an elderly lady, recently arrived in the vicinity, and now leading a very secluded lie, not a mile distant, in the very path they were to travel. And, lastly, to keep alive the spirits of the gentlemen--under the guardianship of this same elderly lady --it was well proved, both by report and ocular demonstra- tion, there flourished a blooming maiden of no slight attrac- tion, either in face or figure. Whether the neice, ward, or daughter, of the elder, was to the party unknown. Is it strange this visit to the Falls was particularly wel- come to every one? Was not their curiosity perfectly natu- 13*     150     JOCASSEE ; OR IL CAPANNETTO. ral, and was it more than right it should be satisfied? What business, indeed, had any one, old or young, male or female, gentle or simple, to preserve any shade of incognito, any' ray of secrecy, under the very noses of the gay party at II Capan- netto? None, whatever; 'twas inadmissible; 'twas unpardon- able. So all thought, and it was soon settled that these clouds of mysticism should be fairly ostracized. The morning came, and 'twas a well contested race be- tween old Sol and the tourists who should be first up. It must, however, be admitted, that Sol had somewhat the bet- ter of the party, for it was the first gleam of his jocund face through the casement which set them in motion. The ladies monopolized the horses, leaving the gentlemen to follow by their sides, like orthodox cavaliers. Merriton invariably found himself dropt near Miss Pearson, as the toy pith-men, place them as you wili, always fall into the same attitude. Heartless proffered his services with empresse- ment, yet not too eagerly or too tenderly, to Miss Vere ; and Miss Vere accepted the escort of Mr. Heartless graciously, yet not with too great a show of pleasure. Doctor Quotem played esquire to Miss Woodlette; while Mr. Vere had a double charge, in the persons of Mrs. Vere and Neva Cameron, Mr. Shelton some half hour before hav-  - ing very strangely abandoned the group upon an unsatisfac- tory plea of some urgent engagement, with some one, in somena other quarter.                        No esquire but proved equal to his charge, excepting only  Doctor Quotem, whlo, unfortunately, was too much troubled  i about his own personal safety to think of any one else, stand- ing, as he did, in as much mortal dread of the rattle-snakes with which this region was more or less infested--as did Mr. Panza and Dulcinea of Toboso's champion of the terrible fulling-mills. With a grace which no one but Doctor John-   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.      151 son might have envied, he bore directly before him, a pole some fifteen feet in length, held at a right angle with his own perpendicular. Upon the tip of this delicate wand was se- cured a root of the " rattle-snake's master"-a herb growing in the vicinage, and said to be regarded by the reptiles with intense aversion. , Forty-three-snakes," said Heartless carelessly, and con- tinuing some remarks to Quotem, " were, to be sure, killed at one time, and near this very spot, last summer ; but then, you know, that is a mere trifle, and it is said that since that period they have still further decreased. Some years ago it was really dangerous to traverse these hills, but now we need -not be at all alarmed. Still it will be quite as well to be careful.--Hark! certainly I heard a rattle!--hist-- Quotem became pallid as the grave, in the interval of si- lence which followed, and until Mr. Heartless avowed himself mistaken. Another moment, and the travellers entering a wild jungle, Mr. Heartless's anxiety returned. "Hark! what was that? Here, Quotem, my good fellow, for God's sake, stir up this brush wood with your long pole!" The doctor, trembling in every nerve, vainly tried to cloak his alarm. Heartless again looking back, and peering behind Quotem, vowed by the serpent which seduced Eve, that this time his ears did not deceive him! At the same moment, a sharp thrill of pain in the back of his neck caused Quotem to place his hand on the irritated part, and when he withdrew his fin- ger, it was, to his infinite horror, spotted with blood! An indescribable alarmrn ensued among lhis firiends, scarcely less than in the mind of the victim; neither were Heartless's consoling assurances that although the wound was in most ca- ses fatal, he might possibly recover, sufficient to exorcise the   152     JOOASSEE; OR IL CAPANYIETTO. legion of death's heads which were grinning before his eves. In the midst of the confusion, Mr. Heartless, in a convulsion of laughbter, held up to the public gaze a pin with a bloody point, which Instantly explaininig his joke, changed the scene into one of mingled anger and mirth. Quotem looked all the daggers in the world, not excepting i the air-drawn stiletto of Macheth, and at length found words to remark indignantly, "You may think the joke ver funny, sir!--very funny--very!--eh--elh! But as the frotgs said in the fible, 'what is sport to you is death to us.'" "Nay, nay, my dear doctor, let not your temper be ruffled; I crave a thousand pardons.. D--n it, man, can't you take a joke, even if it does have rather a sharp point? Ah, all T cheer up, mon. ami; it was only a quotation from 'Tricks upon Travellers,' and a very pretty p-assage too, eh! There, you shall have the fang (offering him the pin) to preserve in your cabinet of pickled curiosities!" Mr. Heartless had in reserve for his butt, one more touch- ing extract from the same pleasing volume. The doctor, in his attire, was as careful and classic as in his languagye, and to preserve a new garb from intimacy with vile, contamina- ting mud, instead of following the party through a miry place in the route, he was at much trouble to find a cleaner passagre over a  little ridge which embanked the slough. Heartless, unseen by him, stealthily followed his steps, and seeing on the highest point of the bank a dead snake, he hastily gave it an affectionate twist around the unconscious victim's neck. The shock was too intense; the doctor lost his presence of  l mind, if not his senses; and to the deep scandal of grace and neatness, and the great detriment to the well-being of his wardrobe, he very quietly took a speedy passage down the bank into the centre of the very slough he had just before spent so much .speculation, mathematics and care, to avoid. i   JOCASSEE; OR IL OAPANNETTO.      153 Heartless, looking over the ledge, very joyously congratula- ted him upon having a capital, most capital opportunity- one that might not soon, if ever return-of quoting the beau- tiful soliloquy, in the nursery songs, of the old lady so ex-, tremely puzzled to establish her own identity- "If I be I, as I suppose I be, I have a little dog at home, And he knows me!" The doctor might, indeed, have well required the aid of his friends to tell him who he was, but he was in no humour to enjoy the quotation, or the mirth which prevailed at his ex- pense. His patience had fairly toppled from her monument, and he expressed his resolve to pursue the journey no farther, but to remain there until the party's return. Miss Wood- lette, at this last cruel joke, lost, for once, her calm gracious- ness of expression, and gravely took the doctor's part against Mr. Heartless.  Quotem, proving obstinate in his resolve to go no farther, and some questions arising about a new cava- lier for Miss Woodlette, the lady expressed her intention to pass the day with Doctor Quotem and the occupants of the neighbouring cottage.  As this was the residence of the un- known dames, Miss Martha's desire was granted, the ladies, hoping on their return, to benefit by the results of her day's exploration. With the charge to take good care of each other, the re- creants were left to themselves, and so also, reader, we must leave them and continue on to the Falls, ever loving such scenes better than the unwelcome place of third person sin- gular, in the neighbourhood of a blooming maiden and gal- lant youth, cherishing no very especial aversion towards each other. Gaily passed the rest of the journey; now leading along the heaven-reaching ridge, now through the noiseless valley,   154     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. revealing at one moment, in the distance, the falling sheet high above them; and again, far beneath the eye. Hearty was their matin meal, on the lovely terrace border- ing the basin of the first cascade of the lower and nearer se- ries of falls. At the close of the sylvan repast, buoyantly they bounded from rock to rock, pausing at each new terrace -  to admire the ever varying scene. Turning to continue their exploration after one of these pauses, their attention was suddenly arrested by a new object of attraction-none other than a stranger, seated at the open- intg of a lovely vista, and apparently absorbed in sketching the charms it revealed. That the pencil was not his sole amusement, however, was very plainly told by the presence of the noble dog at his feet, and the fowling-piece near his hand. "Gently," whispered Heartless, first directing their eyes to the stranger--" there he is-that's he--our knight of the port-folio! by Jupiter! he is a noble, looking fellow!-and :that dog!" "Where " asked Neva Cameron.   I do not see him." "Here, this way;" returned Mr. Heartless, directing her to an eligible place of observation, but in the midst of a growth of brush and rank weeds. Neva unhesitatingly gained the  I spot, but scarcely had she so done, when a scream of intense agony from her friends caused her to gaze around, and she looked full upon the glaring eyes of one of the very reptiles ; of which so many gay jests had recently been made. The    poor girl seemed spell-bound, neither moving nor uttering the I slightest cry; indeed, the former, in her position, would have been impossible, excepting in the very direction of the snake. The reptile was in the very act of strliking at its victim ; hor- ror and dismay filled every soul, when the report of a gun was followed by the fall of the wounded snake. Looking in- i1   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.      155 voluntarily toward the place occupied by the artist, he was seen for a solitary instant, with his eyes eagerly bent upon the lady and the extended piece in his hand. Thus he stood, however, only for a moment, for the next he. was in their midst, and supporting the fainiting figure of Neva Cameron. When the appalling danger which had arisen, lived, and pafsed in a moment, was over, joyous congratulations, grate- ful thanks, and merry laughs prevailed. The stranger's gallant intervention was a sufficient card of introduction. AHe received- their encomiums with modesty, yet with an ease, grace and dignity, which won all hearts. He very quietly managed to introduce himself as Mr. George Morland, a young de butant in art, who having heard much of the beauty of the wild nature of the South, had stolen a few weeks from sterner duties, to see and enjoy for himself. In return, Mr. Vere besought him to accept the hospitalities of "H Capannetto," during his further sojourn in the neigh- bourhood.  This kind offer Mr. Motland accepted, in so far as a promise to be a frequent and unceremonious visiter at the cottage. As Mr. Vere had already Mrs. Vere to protect, he nmade over Neva to the guidance of the stranger, who did not seem to consider himself thereby in the least possible degree imposed upon. Mr. Morland opened his port-folio to the gaze of his new friends, and by the pleasure they extracted from his beautiful works, afforded them a grateful finish to the day's enjoyment. What were Neva's own feelings towards the stranger we cannot tell, for she scarcely parted her lips, save in a few ar- dent words of thanks for his timely service. We may, though, record, that her eyes sparkled with pleasure at the enthusias- tic and judicious observations with which he unostentatiously accomupanied each sketch of the points she had just visited. But we must lift this sacred veil no higher; the day, also,   156     JOaASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. waneta, and doubtless Doctor Quotem and Miss Woodlette are impatiently awaiting the party's return. Leaving them to pursue their path at pleasure, we shall pass onward, and, ere they arrive, take a glimpse at the not uninteresting events with which the day had been chequered in the experience of the recreant couple. CHAPTER XI. THE EXCURSION--CONTINUED. WE return to the couple dropt by the way-side in our last chapter's visit to the cataracts. Well, and how did the young Thespians enact their parts in their wide green-room of Na- ture's play-house? As was very natural, the early moments of their t6te-a-t6te, were somewhat awkward and constrained, and " the pure well of English undefiled," which should have glided through coral aqueducts, lost its way and oozed from a couple of invisible-grey eyes and another pail of verv proper cerulean. Neither, perhaps, could have told the pourquoi, but very true it is, that a feeling of embarrassment was mu- tually felt. Quotem, at length, when wearied of quoting Childe Harold with his eyes, and from them looking "love to eyes which spake again," turned to that ever available I - fount for lovers-the verse of Tom Moore,-and pointing to r the environing beauties, gently whispered, "Surely he must be a misanthrope indeed, who can feel other than happy amid such scenes as these: ' Here generous nature has spread o'er the scene, t Her purest of crystal and brightest of green, .! Here lives the soft magic of streamlet and hill!'--    JOCASSEE ; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     157 But why, Miss Woodlette, should I vary the verse; why should I not read it truly, and so, truly speak-why not say with the poet that this is not all-this crystal, and green, and streamlet, and hill- ' Oh! no-there is something more exquisite still!' This something, as the bard so sweetly tells in his song, is the spiritual charm, thrown over all by the presence of those who can understand and share our pleasure, and this finish- ing delight, I know, I possess in your companionship and sympathy, Miss Woodlette." To this very pretty speech of the doctor's, Miss Woodlette had nothing to reply; she, therefore, smiled properly, and Quotem continued, until the converse quickly grew mutual, unconstrained, confidential, and affectionate. What its tenour, dear reader, is of very slight subserviency to the purpose of this history ; sufficient, therefore, be it for us to know that to themselves it was of such interest as to steal away the hours unperceived, until the day waned, without once recalling to their thoulghts their purpose of paying their respects to the unknown residents at the neighbouring cabin. This design might not have recurred at all, but for a glimpse they caught of the form of the younger of the stranger-ladies, hastening homewards, and the fall of a few drops of rain, speaking of an approaching shower. They reluctantly turned from the sweet spot in which the last hours had sped like moments, into the path leading to the cabin. Not far had they thus walked, when their attention was suddenly arrested by the sound of voices, one of them not un- familiar to their ears. The speakers were not perceived, until a break in the dense under-growth which edged their path, enabled them to descry, in one, the person of Mr. Jo- seph Shelton, and, in the other, one of the strangers who had lately arrived in the vicinage. Unless they retraced their "   158     JOCASSEE ; OR IL CAPANNETTO. steps some distance, and even then sought an untried path, nothing was left them, excepting to remain as they were, or interrupt Mr. Shelton and his friend, by passing directly be- fore them. This latter procedure delicacy forbade, helped out, it may be, with a slight alloy of lass honourable motive' -curiosity. Thus they were made, nolens volens, eaves-drop- pers in the coming dialogue. "And why, sir," asked Shelton in an angry tone, and ap- parently in continuation of a previously commenced discourse, "why, sir, have not these letters and messages been conveyed to me before? Why is it that you have been here so many days, and have neglected such important affairs 2" "The little delay, sir, will, I hope, prove of as little conse- quence ;.but even that would not have occurred, but for an adventure which turned up on the very day of my arrival, and while searching for you?"    . "Adventure! Of what nature 2" "Why you see I was speeding on, as in duty bound, when suddenly two brilliant eyes rested full upon me, and I was, as by irresistible magic, fascinated and glued to my place." Shelton shuddered, and gazing carefully and half fearfully around him, remarked--"You had a fortunate escape in some way; the reptiles, I am told, are numerous and dangerous." i' EHa, ha," returned the other, "' you are very right, Mr. Shelton; the reptiles are very dangerous; old mother Eve found that out, so she caught the trick and transmitted it to her daughters. The creature from whom I suffered was one ! of the most charming sylphs you ever beheld. I am told that she is killing the summer here, with the aid of an old crone of a ma."                      i "Oh, a lady in the cue, aye?" observed Mr. Shelton, with a  sneer.                          I "Most sagely divined, sir; and what better game for a   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     159 gallant sportsman. I never start such deers without feeling disposed to continue the chase. At least, in the present in- stance, I could not resist-the temptation, so there is the full- length reason why I have not delivered you my unwelcome messages earlier." "Pshaw! This, I fear, is not the first pair of eyes which has caused you to sleep over your duty."   7 "Nay, sir, I understand you, but in that allusion you wrong mne: I was really blameless." 4' Well, well; spilt milk is not worth tears; as that is not to be mended now, let us make the most of what is left." "Well suggested, sir, and your honoured father's plan I consider a most capital one." '"Yes; nothing promises better-if we can only carry it out. The letter which he speaks of sending to Pearson, will doubtless do the business with him, and that is the same as doing it with Neva. There is, indeed, no time to lose; I must turn lover in good earnest, and'this little piece of senti- ment must be mine. Mine without delay! Yes, her happi- ness must not be postponed: neither must mine: he, he:! now is the time in which we must enjoy life, ha,-ha! She is my wife, and then we have a good strong string to hold him in, if he should turn up! he, he! I say, Brown, the old fel- low's a man of genius! Aye 8?"  "Oh, most decided genius." "Keeps a bright look-out for A, No. 1.! We, Us & Co. Aye 2" "A most careful watch." "Not so damnably methodical in the choice of ways and means-aye?" "A most liberal-hearted man in such things-most libe- ral. The plan is an excellent one, sir, but will the lady con- sent 8 There's the rub!"   160     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. "No rub at all. Will she consent? She must consent. The governor has doubtless shown Pearson, her guardian, very cogent reasons for exerting his influence and authority; reasons which will stir him to move heaven and earth to fur- ther our designs. But we must be careful that he does not discover the great importance we attach to them. That, how- ever, is mny business. Your's is to keep your eyes open for anything which may ofLer." "That, sir, I promise you; and yonder is a most capital offer. You see her, tripDingf along there, plucking flowers upon that ridge to the left! By heaven, a perfect gazelle! I must be off in pursuit! Good day, and good success, sir!" "Stop ; one second Inore--where do you live?" "In a cabin not far distant." "And this Hautleroy, in whose employ I was to find you --where is he?" "Hautleroy?-0, yes; at the time I undertook this bu- siness, he was coming here, and I offered him my services, but-" "' But '--what?" "He was not so much pleased with my looks, as you are, sir; and, besides, found adventure some where else." "The engagement, then, was not made, and you came here alone?" "You have overlooked the post-scripturn upon your fa- ther's letter, sir--the scrap upon the outside."     r "Ah, yes! ' P. S. My  messenger tells me that the gen- [ tleman in whose employ you were to meet him, lhas made   i other arrangements.' Well, sir, let me advise you to be careful in your hlunting, and not trespass too boldly upon  private preserves, and also to be extremely short-si ghted, and troubled with a most treacherous memory, if we should hap- pen to meet in any other company than our own. You un- derstand me, sir?"   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     161 "Oh, never fear me. Both my eyes and my memory are the very worst in the world. Do you believe it, sir, I met a creditor some time since, and for the life of me I could not recognize him without glasses; and to another one, I one morning promised to pay a bill, but as fate would have it, before night I actually forgot all about it. These infirmities cause me great annoyance, sir. I very much doubt, now, whether I should remember to re-pay you, if you should have the kindness to lend me ten or twenty dollars, of which I stand much in want." Mr. Shelton took the hint, to test the strength of his friend's memory; and the fellow, pocketing the coin, posted off in pursuit of the lady to whom he had called Shelton's attention--the fair demoiselle, of whom we have already spoken, as having attracted the notice of Doctor Quotem and his companion. CHAPTER XII. THE EXCURSION--CONCLUDED. DURING the preceding dialogue the interest of the listeners was most deeply rivetted, but at the time no opportunity was allowed them for speculation. The clouds grew blacker, and the rain-drops fell faster, besides which, they descried the other portion of their party at a distance, and hastening, like themselves, towards the cottage of the unknown. Mr. Ste- phen Shelton had also detected. the group, and was making all speed to join them. Rising a little hillock in the path, they again observed the errant demoiselle, now seeking shelter within a natural rocky "*   162     JOOASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. recess, from the shower, which appeared to be falling with great vivacity in her neighbourhood. A few moments more brought them up with their friends, but not until Mr. Ste- phen Shelton had gained the spot, and uttered a hundred regrets at the business which had compelled him to desert them so suddenly in the morning, and at his ill-luck, in the search which he had been since so industriously making after them. He took his position by the side of Neva Came- ron, with such a privileged air, such an "of course"-ative manner, that Mr. Morland had as little difficulty in reading his relation towards her, as Mr. Shelton intended he should have, and thoughi Mr. M. still continued his escort, he man- aged, very gracefully, to allow the new-comer the principal share of the duty. The eager inquiries of the ladies, for the result of Quo- tem's explorations, reminded him of the weather-bound dam- sel, and his proposal to seek the cave and accompany her home, was carried with acclamation. The execution of this arrangement was hastened by a shrill cry which at the very moment reached their ears. "Hasten, hasten!" cried Miss Woodlette, as Merriton, consigning his charge to the care of Morland, bounded over the hills, " speed, Mr. Merriton, for your life! Oh, that vil- lain!" At these interjections, Shelton cast a searching and un- quiet glance upon the speaker, but she was too much ab- sorbed in the situation of the maiden to notice it, and he turned away, unsatisfied. All speed was now made, and the group quickly reached the place from which the alarm had come. Entering the recess, of which we have already spoken, they perceived Arthur Merriton supporting in his arms the insensible form of the young girl, whose cries had brought   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     163 them thither, and tenderly bathing her brows in the waters of the pellucid rivulet trickling down the rocks. When her consciousnless returned, and her astonishment at finding herself in the midst of so many new faces had less- ened, she informed them that her fright had been caused by the abrupt entrance, into her retreat, of a stranger, whom she had more than once before observed watching her steps. Who he was she could not tell, and those who could have thrown some light upon the matter, for their own reasons forbore to do so. To the paity was now added the elder of the unknown ladies-the amother of the terrified lass-'who having heard her dalughter's scream, had come with frantic speed to her aid. When assured of her child's safety, she found words to thank the strangers for their kind attentions, but exhibited little desire to place herself under further obli- gation, or even to improve the acquaintance thus commenced. The invitations to become a visitor at the cottage were but coldly received, and even failed in drawing from her a recip- rocation of the courtesy. Soon after her arrival on the spot, observing the eyes of Shelton rivetted upon her, she had drawn more closely over her face the thick hood which she invaria- bly wore. This manceuvre, however, had not been executed until Neva Cameron   had distinctly identified the features with those of her unknown adviser in the city, and recalled to her memory that personage's farewell words--'  We may meet again unexpectedly!"But, as the lady seemed not to re- member her, Neva herself exhibited no signs of recognition. As the storm had passed, and the day was declining, the party continued their homeward walk, leaving Mr. Merriton to accompany their new friends to their cottage ; and, indeed, even this much of escort appeared quite against the will of the elder, and would hardly have been accepted of any one less persuasively urgent than was Authur Merriton. .'   164     J00ASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. In the evening, when the party was again assembled at I1 Capannetto, far less hilarity than usual prevailed. Neva- what with the unusually assiduous attentions of Mr. Shelton; what with her remembrances of the day's incidents, and her watchings of the interest Mr. Morland took in her friend, Margaretta, to whom all his thoughts seemed for the evening devoted; what, indeed, with this, that, and the other remin- iscence, revery, speculation, fear, and hope--had- very little gaiety of heart to spend. Miss Woodlette could no longer refrain from dreaming of the why, wherefore, and up-shot of the- day's occurrences; and, of course, she was company for none but herself. Arthur Merriton was equally abstracted. Perhaps he was tracing, in his mind, an auto-biography of his heroine of the "recess!" Very certain it is, that he was more than once observed to take from his pocket--no, from his bosom-- withered bunch of wild flowers, upon which he gazed with much interest; and  equally sure it is, that this identical bouquet was lying at the stranger-lady's feet, when he first came to her aid. Now, whose fairy fingers might have plucked and  elapsed those flowerets? whose sweet smile I might have rested upon them? whose ruby lips might have pressed  them? Ah, reader, whose, indeed!  And why,   i Arthur Merriton, why so sad? Even Heareartless-Heartless, the satirist of sentiment, sobri- ety, seriousness, and sadness, somehow managed to fall into a meditative and sullen mood.  Had the fair Ellen been un- gracious?  No.  Had he, too, laid up a withered nosegay in sighs and lavender? No.  Was his "heart sair for some- body?"  No; he suffered from, "The venomed stang, That shoots the tortur'd gums alang; An' thro' the lugs gies monie a twang,   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.      165 Wi' gnawing vengeance, Tearing the nerves nti' bitter pang, Like racking engines!" From the various wettings through the day, and the shower at night, he had picked up that pleasant companion, the toothache-not the "' toothache" of the braggart "Benedict,' but the ( "hell o' dire diseases all." And where is the man who can be merry with the toothache? Gods'! he'd clrck a joke upon his coffin-lid, and laugh in the sleeve of Lis shroud! Quotem was the only one who exhibited any gaietd de coeur, perhaps from a malicious enjoyment of the hors de combat state in which he saw his evil genius, Heartless. His spirits rose with the general depression around him; and when the opportunity--as we shall narrate--soon after pre- sented itself, enabled his genius to conceive, plan, and execute a manceuvre, which repaid him for all the trials of the day, and many previous ones, and completely turned the tables upon his friend Heartless. The poor victim of the toothache could bear it no longer, and nothing would do, but the offender must come out root and branch. Quotem was the only available operator; and, despite the little claim the sufferer had upon his good offices, his professional services were solicited. The doctor mumbled over some scriptural passages, touching " returning good for evil," and the like, and consented to accept the office. At hissuggestion, Heart- less agreed to his securing his hands behind the chair, seeing that the rebel tooth was a staunch veteran, unused to such rough treatment as was preparing for it, and as a sudden move during the operation might result dangerously. As Quotern secured the patient, a malicious twinkle played around his mouth, deepening as he drew forth his forceps, and almost breaking forth into a smile as he thrust the instru-   166     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. ment in the victim's mouth, and fumbled about, to his pro- tracted uneasiness and pain. "Halloa, Doc!" he at length gasped, "You are waking up the wrong bone there!" ' "Not at all, my dear fellow!" replied the doctor, and an- other and a rougher tug wrung out a deeper groan. Still another pull was followed by a laugh from the manipulator, and a triumphant whisper in the victim's ear, of "only a third extract, my dearest friend, from your favourite book, ' Tricks upon Travellers!' he, he, he!" The pain he suffered, the taunts of the doctor, the titters of the whole assembly, made the patient furious, but he was well secured, and no room remained for escape. One more j  raking tug, followed by the malicious whisper of " snake!" /  completed-the rage of the hapless victim, and convulsed the   spectators. At the same instant, Quotem held up to the -public gaze a tooth, not the aching one, but as sound a grinder as ever threatened tough'goose, and gravely present- ing it to Heartless, suggested to him to preserve it among his " catalogue of pickled curiosities!" He was. at length released, and perceiving that the laugh was universally and fairly against him, he had the wise forbearance to pocket the joke, secretly vowing a terrible repayal when opportunity offered.  But, alas! for him, the matter did not end here. Through that eventful summer it was-never permitted to sleep, but was eternally hinted, whispered, and spoken, until it became to him as sore a theme as was the bantering of Prince Hal-to the valorous multiplier of the " men in buck- /  ram suits," or the Laird of Monkbarns's vivid recollections of I  the Phoca-to his sporting nephew, Hector; or simple San- cho's hateful reminiscences of the Don's terror on the event- ful night of the fulling-mills--to that mighty man of La Mancha!   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     167 CHAPTER XII1. THE FIRE. REPEATED efforts were fruitlessly made to allure the stran- ger-ladies from their seclusion.- In their dilemma, the Il Capannetto party were one evening assembled in grave con- sultation upon the subject, and Mr. Heartless and Mr. Merri- ton, who had been formally appointed a committee to devise. some harmless stratagem, sufficient to compass their wish, were every moment expected to enter the drawing-room with their report. Whatever their ingenuity might have promised, the desired end was accomplished, and. doubtless with more certainty, by an unforeseen accident. Scarcely had the very able commit- tee arrived, and opened their lips, when the general attention was caught by faint sounds borne upon the breeze, evidently from a distance, and no less certainly, induced by circum- stances of distress. A moment longer, and the appalling cries of fire! urged them towards the piazza, where a sight, impressive at any time and place, but more especially terrible in the deep quiet of the midnight hour, and in the silent, lonely woods, far removed from every hope of human aid- filled every soul with alarm and horror. A brilliant column of lurid flame sprang from the very heart of the adjoining wilderness, the light made the intenser by the contrast with the frowning ridges and mountain peaks, whose chilly black- ness it sufficed to reveal. "It is their house!" exclaimed Merriton, in frantic alarm, and breaking the deep silence which the unusual and fearful scene had for a moment produced. "Truly so- rejoined Heartless, who could always be suffi-   168     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. ciently serious when the occasion required. "It is the cabin of our unknown friend and her pretty daughter. Quick! speed! Shelton, Merriton, Quotem! your horses, and away with me! There is no hope of saving the house, but we can, no doubt, render important service to the sufferers from the unhappy casualty. Let us hasten! This isa dreary hour to be cast pillowless and houseless into the wild ivoods!" Preparations for departure were made with electric haste, and the four gentlemen urged their steeds to the utmost. They were rapidly approaching the field of the fire-king's triumph, when they detected the sound of steps in their vic'inty. The steps were stealthy, and seemed to be hastily retreating, but in the stillness of the hour and place a breath would have betrayed itself to the ear. Gazing in the direc- tion from whence the noise came, they saw, by the aid of a stream of light at this instant cast around them I,y the burn- ing pile, the figure of a man, and bearing in his arms, what, from  the light snowy drapery which fluttered in the night breeze, appeared to be a female figure. The stranger paid no heed to their salutation, but bounded on with all possible fleetness in another direction from the one they were pursuing. Thus disregarded, they used no farther ceremony, but push- ing forward soon reached the man, and peremptorily demand- ed who he was and what he bore. i"For God's sake, gentlemen," he replied, "hasten on, if you would save life! leave this lady to my care; I have perilled my life'for her, and will take it upon me to convey her to a place of safety." "Ah!" exclaimed Merriton, who had dismounted, and by the aid of the fire-light which still surrounded them, had approached the stranger's burthen, and recognized the un- conscious form of the heroine of the recess--"Oh! it is- it is-she!"   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     169 "What! our fair inconnue, Merriton ." rejoined Mr. Heart- less. "Egad! she has her share of adventure!" and then addressing the stranger, "But, I say, my dear friend and fellow-citizen, it rather puzzles me to account for your inter- est in the fair lady, and still more, to reconcile your desire to serve her, with the direction you appeared to be following, when the cottage in the valley is the nearest, and in filact the only neighbouring asylum. What think you, gentlemen ." "In faith "tis strange, 'tis passing strange,' as Othello has it," answered Doctor Quotem, and then gazing full into the man's face (who was none other than the gentleman he had before overheard in conversation with Shelton) he continued, whispering in his ear a variation of the speech of the suspici- ous Seyd to Gulnare, in the Corsair-  - "' I have a counsel for thy private ear: I do mistrust thee, man!" "Bah!" interrupted Mr. Shelton, at the same time casting a meaning glance and angry frown uponi the fellow, " this is no time, Quotem, for your cursed classics; we must instantly decide upon the destination of the lady." "And that," said Mr. Merriton, "can of course be no other than for one of us to take her with him upon his horse, and hasten on to the cabin, where we can pick up the other occu- pants and arrange for their transportation to the valley."' "And that duty," observed Mr. Heartless, proceeding at once to place the still unconscious form upon Mr. Merriton's horse, " belongs to you." Mr. Merriton made no objection to the arrangement, but was instantly in the saddle, and disposing his fair burthen before him with as much ease and tenderness as the circum- stances allowed, they then continued their ride to the scene of the fire, with sundry characteristic words of farewell from each, to the gentleman whom they had so kindly relieved, 15   170     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPAINETTO. and who gazed on them with a bewildered air, uncertain ex- actly what to say or do. The cabin, of but little extent or value indeed, was, as they expected, burned to the ground. The family were gathered about, some actively busied'in arranging the few things which had been saved, some lamenting their luckless fate, or gazing on the burning masses in stupid amazement, as though not fully conscious of what had happened. The visitor had just discovered the absence of her daughter, and was frantically searching for her, and rending the air with her cries of an- guish, at the thought that she had perished in the flames. Beholding her a second time safe, and under the protection of our party, the mother was profuse in her expressions of grati- tude and obligation. When the offer of a home in the valley was made her, she no longer hesitated to accept it; as, indeed, no resource was left, but for the one party to tender the hos- pitality, and the other receive it. Upon enquiry as to the cause of the conflagration, nothing satisfactory could be learn- ed, each one being profoundly ignorant of the existence of any fire or light in the cabin, from which it could have sprung. The march was now taken up for II Capannetto, but the matin hours were drawing nigh when all heads were safely disposed upon its kindly pillows. CHAPTER XIV. THE   FAIR  INCONNUES. THUS, as we have seen, accident accomplished for our friends that which their utmost ingenuity would most likely have failed to effect. The fair inconnues were now among   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     171 them, and that not for an hour or a day, bug in all likelihood for a iprotracted period. Until the return of their friends from the burning cottage, all eyes in the valley were sleepless, with fear and expecta- tion, and the arrival of the strangers was welcomed by every one with the kindest sympathy and love. After the passage of a few days, Madame de Montfalt and her daughter Cecile de Monifalt-for by such names they had at once introduced themselves-seemed well content with their new home, and fieely participated and sympathized in the passing interestsof the time. Yet despite this courteous and flattering. deport- ment, no insight whatever had been made into their past: history, over which they managed to throw a veil, yet with such perfect good breeding that it was rendered almost in- visible while doubly impenetrable. The very few hints which the innate delicacy of each mind had suffered them to make to Mademoiselle Cecile, as the more approachable of the two, were repelled with such mingled graciousness and dignity, that no one was sufficiently presuming to intrude his curiosity farther. The elder lady, who bad for some years been more or less an invalid, was so much prostrated by the excitement and exposure following the late catastrophe, that it was only at rare and brief intervals that she left her own apartment, so that, as yet, there was very little familiarity established be- tween her and the gentlemen of the cottage. Besides this physical indisposition, she very quickly betrayed an antipathy for society, and a more than usual love, in one of her nation and period of life, for retirement and the companionship of her own thoughts. It required but very slight penetration to spe that she was a lady of gentle birth and polished breed- ing. She was, also, but with less positiveness, thought to be a widow, perhaps subsisting upon the wreck of former wealth, scattered by misfortune, and which misfortune had induced   172     JOOASSEE; OR IL APAMNNETTO. the griefs which seemed now to have weaned her from the world and its pleasures. Whatever her sorrows, she made them no bar to the happiness of her daughter, whom she per- mitted freely to follow the natural bent of her young heart, in sharing the amusements and pleasures of, her new com- panions.                iP The portrait of Cecile de Montfalt merits a separate can- vass, and so we must draw her, at full length-not bodily, (at least not farther than the form and feature may be irfalli- bly considered the index of the inner temple-the soul,) for such a spirit of revolt is there in the varied taste of mankind to any absolute standard of physical loveliness and perfection, that however truly our pencil might impress the embodi- ment of our own ideal, we n ight fail entirely in realizing that of others. Let each reader, then, sketch the mien, the height, the hair, the eye, and lip of Cecile de Montfalt, as may best suit his fancy, while ours, the safer task to picture forth that inward beauty " which passeth show-" in which effort we feel certain that, while following the purer affections of our own heart, we shall fail in painting to the love of no man-since in moral loveliness there exists but one infallible standard of excellence, and that standard, however scoffed at, still ac- knowledged, felt, respected, and worshipped by all. The peculiar and irresistible witchery in the character and 'person of Cecile de Montfalt, was a happy and most singular commingling of the zephyrous fragility and ethereal grace of the Sylph, with the voluptuousness and reality of the Hebe: the self-mistrust, and shrinking modesty, and simple air of the village maiden, with the courtly ease, beauty, and dignity of the Venus.   This rare union--alone, in our fancy, equal to a perfect whole--was the happy result of certain most felicitous causes. Born under the enervating influence of luxurious and indo-   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.      173 lent life, she had all that extreme delicacy of figure which marks the child of what is called " gentle birth." This deli- cacy, instead of being suffered to degenerate into feebleness and disease, had been strengthened and invigorated--not brutalized-by the judicious exercise of a country life-thus the liebe and the Sylph. She was naturally of a retiring and shrinking temperament, of a disposition the most amiable, and possessing a tenderness of heart bordering upon religious devotion--a trait in woman's nature, to every heart. the most womanly, and which indeed, alone, gives her her empire over the stronger sex-a trait which makes her possession of reli- gious feeling so indescribable a charm, and fully reveals the deep philosophy in those lines of the poet, where, speaking of the insufficiency of worldly beauty and endowments to com- plete the female character,'and the absolute need of the addi- tion of religious sentiment, he says: "The light spring-flower may scarcely bow Beneath her step, and yet-and yet- Without this meeker grace she'll be A lighter thing than vanity." This unassuming and relying nature in Cecile had, from her earliest infancy, been under the watchful monitions of one possessing principles of rigid and unswerving truth-a soul imbued with the most earnest love of the beautiful, real, and ideal-a mind of varied and polished culture-and manners, faultlessly accomplished. She was the core of her mother's heart, and that mother had watched over her darling child by day and by night. In her waking hours the unwearied teach- er had striven to assimilate her charge more and more to the perfect Being in whose likeness she was made; and, in the silent night-watches, she had knelt by her innocent pillow and earnestly besought the source of all spiritual beauty to bless with his blessing her holy labours. And her fervent 15*   174     JOCASSEE ; OR IL CAPANNETTO. prayer was heard, and Cecile grew up a phenomena in her sex-lovely in person and mind, yet, even if conscious of the truth, without one tinrge of vanity, selfishness, or pride. Thus while she would have created what is called a " sen- sation " in the gayest city salons, how much more so, when thrown so unexpectedly in the midst of the little knot in the seclusion of Jocassee. She speedily became a favourite, and from those who could appreciate and love nature and truth, received the most assid- uous devotions. Arthur Merriton was, of course, ever bv her side; and though she appeared unconscious of displaying partiality, his society was, evidently, the most grateful. Per- haps this was because she felt herself better acquainted with him, he having been the first introduced to her, and the earli- est to render her kindness. With Neva Cameron, especially, she soon cemented a co- partnership in heart. The two girls might well have been- taken for twin sisters, so very striking was the resemblance of character--Neva differing from  Cecile only in that slight conventional air which her more extensive acquaintance with the world and its seenings, had thrown around her. Both might be typified by the sweet and fragrant violet--the one, long exposed in the artificial atmosphere of worldly inter- course--the other, but just culled from its quiet repose be- neath the shade of the green hedge row. They rambled to- gether, communed together, read from the self-same page of poetic achievement in heroism, love, and truth, and drank the same cup of nature's ambrosia, until Mr. Heartless face- tiously persisted in considering them only one person and soul, and himself to be labouring under some optical illusion, when two distinct forms filled his eye. The classical Quotem, when called upon to notice the inti- macy, gravely remarked, "Yes! another 'Hermia ' and ' Helena,'   JOCASSET; OR IL CAPANNETTO.      175 'Both warbling of one song, both in one key; As if their hands, their sides, voices, and minds, Were made incorporate. So they grow together, Like to a double cherry seeming parted, But yet a union in partition, Two lovely berries moulded on one stem; So with two seeming bodies, but one heart.'" We have now, reader, presented you to Cecile de Montfalt. Welcome her to II Capannetto, and rest assured that the in- fluence of so good a soul can be for no other than good. CHAPTER XV. MR. HEKRY HAUTLEROY. IT is now time that we turn our thoughts again to Henry Hautleroy. Ostensibly so, we mean, for that that gentleman has in reality received his due quota of attention all this time, the reader knows as well as ourself, he not having failed, long ago, to identify him with the artist, Mr. Morland. From you, kind reader, it was no part at all of our design to veil this identity, as you have easily perceived. 1Hautle- roy's associates, however, being less familiar than you and ourself with his designs, did not at all suspect him of being any other than simply Mr. George Morland. The change which absence, and the long lapse between the years of early youth and manhood, produce, were all sufficient to render his incognita perfectly secure. The motive for his present course, the reader will readily detect, remembering his youthful fancy for Miss Pearson, and his meditated " play " to test the sin- cerity of her implied attachment.   176     - JOOASSEE; OR IL OAPANNETTO. Wishing, in a spirit of romance natural to him, to realize his early dreams, and yet entertaining vague suspicion of Miss Pearson's entire worthiness of his love, his design was to watch her conduct, and pay her his court, when her demea- nour would be entirely uninfluenced by any of the glittering adventitious attractions which he possessed. Thus far, his observation had not been very satisfactory, perhaps the less so, as her faults appeared in a stronger light, contrasted as they ever were with the more lovely traits of Neva Cameron, whom his heart had often whispered much more realized his ideal of female excellence. Perhaps this regard for Neva held deeper root in his fancy than be was aware; but if so, at least two good reasons operated for its present suppression. First, his moral obligation to Marga- retta, which he was resolved not to violate without cause, and her many dazzling charms, her beauty, wit, and accomplish- ments, were not such as to lose their force in a day; while, in the second place, he believed Miss Cameron the willing affianced of Mr. Shelton. On arriving in the vicinity of Jocassee, with his servant, Brown, who accompanied him,-though, to preserve his em- ployer's secret, he had denied his connexion with him, to Mr. Shelton-he took possession of a cave in one of the wildest parts of the adjacent hills. Here he passed his time, until after his introduction to the valley party, which, as we have seen, took place by accident earlier than he had intended. This cavern was of huge interest and endless labyrinthian passages and chambers. 'It was, moreover, a place difficult of access, even when known, which it hapDened to be but by very- few. He had selected it for his abode, not from any Quixotic expectation of need of availing himself of its advan tages of seclusion and safety, but from his ardent love for such spots, and its harmony with the romantic part he was enacting.   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. 1,7 In this rude, subterranean Alhambra he sat, on the second night after the fire, and soliloquized much to this effect. "Faith! I fear my adventure will prove but profitless. Here have I been playing Asmodeus in a small way for a whole fortnight, with little or no success. Would that the limping demon were here, and would take me for his Cleofas, that I might seize the skirts of his satanic mantle, and fly with him to the presence of my Margaretta at her most unguard- ed hours, and thus learn her real nature and sentiments." "What am I to make of this Merriton? As far as Mar- garetta is concerned, I fear I have some little cause of jea- lousy, though no farther; for though he may, as they tell me, have been her abject slave, this Cecile de Montfalt is, I fancy, a living refutation of such an assertion now. She is as beau- teous as my wildest reveries, as accomplished as I could de- sire, apparently amiable, and, seemingly, not averse to me. Not averse to Henry Hautleroy? No, by the powers, not averse to George Morland! Ha. ha! a very flattering con- clusion I have arrived at, certainly! Very flattering to Henry Hautleroy that she is not averse to George Morland! Egad, my play has no bottom to it, for what proof of love for Henry Hautleroy will it be, if she should accept the hand of a poor devil of a painter y'clept Morland! Stop, stop! This much of satisfaction it will be-that her heart is too noble not to be won by aught than rank and fortune.  If she will wed a penniless unknown for himself alone, Henry Hautleroy is content to be that man. Yet let me, with Sir Philip Sydney, 'look within my heart,' and speak. Do I really love, can I love Margaretta with the intensity of which my soul is capa- ble, and is she one to make a similar return, with less than which I could never live. Surely this plotting and doubting is no part of that absorbing passion!- Yet, my course is de- termined, and once more to my play!"   178     JOCASSEE ; OR IL CAPANNETTO. "Now rises the form of Neva Cameron-why is it she is always so much in my thoughts 8 Is she a stranger to me, or have we met before? Surely her whole expression forci- bly reminds me of some previous vision, actual or imaginary! Can this fancy of mine be nothing more than one of those shadowy revealings of some past time, in which ' Mem'ry seems to have caught a gleam From a life whose term is o'er, Leaving the soul in the mystic dream, That it has lived before V' Certainly this impression of mine must havesome foundation in reality! It cannot be that with that sweet face ' my spirit has dwelt when my frame was far away 2'- It might be so, for I have lived often in dream-land with bright fancies, of which she might be the embodiment. And so her happiness is to rest with that unlovely personage, Shelton . I could wish her a more hopeful destiny!" At this point of our hero's speculations, he was aroused by a neighlbouring noise, and looking up he perceived that his valet, Brown, had entered the apartment. CHAPTER XVI. PLOT AND COUNTER-PLOT. WE now pass, with but slight notice, over an interval of some few weeks. In that period, the guests at the cottage watched with interest the culminating and decline of Mr. Morland's devotion to Miss Margaretta Pearson. They finally settled down into the very just conclusion that the gentle- man's suit had proven hopeless.   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.      179 Following this supposed repulse, Mr. Morland had turned again, and apparently with more heartiness, to the side of Neva Cameron. This heartiness was responded to by Neva, far more deeply than she was, herself, aware, and quite enough for the chagrin and jealousy of Mr. Stephen Shelton. This position of affairs was the result of the passage of the few weeks of which we spoke at the opening of our present chapter; but at the precise moment of which we now write, there was in this course a decided ebb. Miss Pearson's gra- ciousness towards Morland was resumed and redoubled,-her whole efforts seemed now to be bent to replace him at her feet! The secret of this contradictory conduct was, neither more nor less, than a discovery on her part, of the real namne and position of the incognito, through the treachery of his servant, Brown.  This fellow, who had discovered Miss Pear- son's designs upon Hautleroy, thought, by serving her, to further his own interests with Cecile de Montfalt,-interests which were now publicly known, since Brown had been lately admitted into the society of the cottage, and countenanced there, even by Morland himself, who feared to endanger his own incognito by provoking his servant. Brown revealed his employer's secret to Miss Pearson, upon the express stipula- tion that she should lend her influence to his success with Cecile. This Margaretta the more readily promised, as it opened to her the way of balking the hopes of her old admi- rer, Mr. Merriton, whose whole heart was now given to Miss de Montfalt. Brown served himself in a similar way with Stephen Shelton, who saw in the secret,-when in the posses- sion of Margaretta,--a means of withdrawing his rival, Mor- land, from Neva Cameron. Jealous, and not without cause of thisrival, Shelton urged the fulfilment of his engagement with Neval; and the arrival   180     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTOo of Mr. Pearson, which occurred about this time, was followed by the report, that the wished for consummation approached. Neva's apparent willingness to this arrangement, while it precluded objection, did not stifle conjecture and fear. The uneasiness of Miss Woodlette and Doctor Quotem, particular- ly, increased, when they coupled her forced calmness with the conversation they had, on their visit to the Falls, overheard between Mr. Shelton and Brown. The result of their reflec- tions was, a resolution to communicate their fears to Mr. Mor- land, whom they had learned to esteem, and on whom they could depend as a sincere and honourable friend of Neva. Their communication awakened new emotions in the heart of Hautleroy, since it, for the first time, led him to think that Miss Cameron's love had not been bestowed upon Shelton- and that there was yet hope of winning it for himself, and such a conquest, now fully learned, was an end deeply affect- ing his happiness. Miss Pearson's renewed kindness was fruitless, as he, by a fortunate accident, had become fully informed of her knowl- edge of his secret, and knew, therefore, the spring of her ac- tions. About this same period, another incident occurred, pro. ductive of more than usual excitement at the cottage. Mad. de Montfalt and her daughter having made an excursion to a neighbouring village, accompanied by Shelton and Brown, instead of returning, had, firom the report of the gentlemen, received letters from the post, which demanded their imme- diate presence in Charleston, and had proceeded directly by the public route to that city, sending their apologies for so abrupt a departure from their friends. Conjectures as to the motive of their visit, were, of course, rife in the valley, but no one dreamed of questioning the honesty of the story.   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     181 CHAPTER XVII. NEEV-A CAMERON AT THE ALTAR. THE various details which he d, from day to day, delayed the nuptials of Neva Cameron, wei e at length passed, and the very hour of the ceremony drew near. Mr. Shelton, senior, had arrived at the cottage to be present on the occasion. Mr. Morland had resigned all hope that his old friend, Carrolton, would join them in season, although he had written to say that he might very quickly expect him. Neva had waited in vain for a reply to her commmuicatio, ddressed to her friend, Mad. de Montf llt, in Charleston ; and, whom she could not help thinking, posse ssed the power of saving her from the sacrifice she was about to make. Whether her fan- cies were visionary, or not, no reply came to her messages, and she at length prepared to obey the imperative pleasure of her guardian. As she passed to the drawing-room on the eventful night, the poor girl's steps faltered, and she pressed heavily on the arm of her guardian, while a half stifled. sigh told the inward anguish of her soul. "'Take courage , whispered Mr. Pearson, but in tones which seemed to belie his words; " take courage, and you will be happy. Be assured that he loves you, and -" Here his companion interrupted his speech. "Speak no more of it," said she. "Nothing can better make my happiness than in contributing to your's. I owe you every thing, and even this step is justly due you, since you attach to it such importance." At this manifestation of deep affection the old man seemed struggling to restrain the words which were about to break from his lips; and he had even taken an involuntary step 16   182     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. backwards, when Mr. Shelton appeared to relieve him of his charge. After a moment's hesitation, he resigned her to him, with a look mingled of various stirring passions, and- they passed into the midst of their friends assembled in gay coteries in Mrs. Vere's parlour, where awaited the minister who was to cement this ill-omened union. CHAPTER XVIII. AD VEN T RES AND SURPRIS ES. Our attention is now necessarily called to the movements of a stranger in the vicinity of the valley. The adventurer was none other than our old acquaintance, Carrolton, who, in compliance with his promise to his whilome friend, Hautle- roy, was on his way to greet him at the cottage. The night was dark, and the traveller, having lost his path  was rambling fruitlessly among the rocks and hills, which was the more vexing, as it promised to detain him, until too late for the bridal hour, even then rapidly approaching. "This valley of my friends," soliloquized the traveller, "is as difficult of ingress as that of the Abyssinian prince was of egress. I am as completely lost in these intricate wilds as the poor babes of blessed and blackberry memory. I fear I shall be reduced to the necessity of seeking shelter for the night, and deferring my search until morning." While thus speaking, his horse stopt abruptly before a mass of rocks, which, in the dim light, he managed to resolve into the mouth of a cavern. 4' Thanks, good Erebus!" he exclaimed, " this is not so bad a turn; for here, at least, I can await the dawn in safety;   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     183 and perhaps, After all, as I cannot be far from the valley, I may congratulate the bride, and supply her with an adven- ture at the breakfast table to-morrow." So saying, the old gentleman, who had been coaxing him- self into facetiousness, alighted from his wearied steed, and, after fastening his bridle to some neighbouring twigs, entered the cave, where, with the aid of some matches, happily about his person, and some dry wood and leaves, near at hand, he soon managed to kindle a cheering fire. In a very short time, this manner of passing the night became too monotonous for him, and, providing himself with some pine torches, he sallied forth with the intent of explor- ing his subterranean shelter. Interested in the various beau- ties of the place, he quickly traversed passage upon passage, unconscious of the -flight of time. While wholly absorbed in the examination of a palisade of stalactytes of enormous proportions, his ear caught the unwonted melody of a female voice. Astonished at the occurrence, he listened for some moments to its reverberations, vainly essaying to solve the singular enigma. But at length he became conscious that it was what D'Israeli calls "a great fact," and, as such, the herald of other sober facts, which very rationally invited his investigation. From the circuitous nature of the passages, he was often uncertain of his route, having such various doublings to make, that the voice appeared alternately nearer and more remote. In this uncertainty, the voice, too, having entirely ceased, he suddenly descried, through a crevice, the faint glimmer of a light. Following this guide, he speedily found himself within the limits of a small chamber; most strangely secluded, occupied by two personages; the one, as the lamp served to show, a lady of elderly years, and the other in the bloom of girlhood. It would be difficult to say which of the   184     JOCASSF; OR IL CAPANNETTO. parties, thus so singularly confronted, was the more aston- ished, or whether the fear or surprise of the ladies predomi- nated. Be that as it may, it is very certain that joy was their only emotion, when they were persuaded that in the visitor thev saw only a protector and preserver. The prisoners, for such they were, were none other than Madame de Montfalt, and her daughter, Cecile! A  few words sufficed the stranger to explain his position, and the ladies to sketch briefly the train of circumstances which lad placed them in their singular abode. How Shelton and Brown, after bribing the coachman, had drawn them from their carriage, on a false pretence, and, then conducting them to the cavern, had made them prisoners; the one, doubtless, actuated by a suspicion that the elder lady was possessed of some secrets inimical to his interests; and the other from a mad passion for the daughter; and how they had since been threatened with a worse fate, unless their several demands were answered, and secresy in relation to the past solemnly sworn; This mad conduct, on the part of their persecutors, they could consider only as the actions of desperate men. "Let us thank heaven," said Madame, " for the kind aid sent us in the person of our stranger friend, and avail our- selves of the chance of escape while it offers; for should our jailors return, our friend will inevitably share our hard fate; besides, the very deed, which they feared I might prevent, may be even now consummating, and I would sacrifice much nhw to prevent it." In a few moments, the traveller conducted the ladies from the chamber, and, for some time, traversed, with assurance, the path by which he had approached. Soon they were for an instant at fault, but, luckily, the neighing of his horse provided a new guide, and, finlally, the gleams of the fire which he had left at the mouth of the cave served to convey   JOOASSBE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     185 them forth in safety. Here the ladies were prevailed upon to mount their deliverer's horse, while he followed therm as esquire with the vivacity of younger years. The ladies, during their residence in the vicinity, had, fortunately, ac- quainted themselves with the multifarious windings of the roads to the valley, so that but a very brief period was con- sumed in traversing the short distance that intervened be- tween them and their home. As good fortune would have it, they arrived just in season to confront the marriage party, at the very moment when Neva was upon the point of uttering the vows which would have sealed her unhappy fate. CHAPTER XIX. THE DENOUEMENT. NOTHNG could have been more striking than was the vivid tableau vivant enacted by the bridal group, upon the abrupt appearance of the new guests. As the shadow of a shade is weighty substance to the conscience of the guilty, so the countenances of Shelton and his co-adjutors clearly showed that they regarded the interruption as nothing less than the index of detection and defeat. A smile of joy lighted the features of the bride when she so unexpectly saw her friend spring, spirit-like, to her rescue. Among the guests, general- ly, were seen, in their intensest expression, all the emotions of surprise, curiosity, fear and hope. This' period of deep silence was broken by the voice of Madame de Montfalt, speaking in tones trembling, yet com- manding. 16* H    186     JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO. "I forbid," she cried, " this wicked and unhallowed sacri- fice. Look at me, James Pearson, and recognize the unfor- tunate wife of your vile associate, that grey-haired old man, who, upon the verge of the grave, is adding to his crimes." And, as she spoke, she cast a glance upon the elder Shelton, which, if possible, added to the speechless astonishment into which her appearance had thrown him. "Not satisfied with the murder of the hapless Carrolton, but you must condemn his only child to a worse fate,-to-" "My daughter! my child!" exclaimed the benighted tra- veller, rushing from the corner, where he had thus far stood unobserved, and clasping in his arms the fainting form of his long wept child. "The first glance told me so, even against my thorough conviction of her death. Yes! she is my child! There, again, are the very features of her sainted mother! There is my self-same darling infant of years long past! . O God! I thank thee for thine infinite goodness, in this blessed restoration of my child!" We pause not for the fruitless task of painting the recep- tion, among the guests, of this additional surprise. Pearson, at the first glance, recognized in the stranger, the injured friend of his youth, Carrolton ; of whose death, itI had been the bane of his life to think himself the cause. Uttering a scream of joy, he threw himself at his feet, thanking heaven that he was still alive, and praying of him his forgiveness for the injuries he had done him and his hapless child. "Dead!" ejaculated Mr. Carrolton, recognizing and greet- ing the companion of his youth. "And so you really thought me dead?   Well, I believe you. But they," and heie the old man's eye rested sternly upon theepersons of the elder Shelton, and his former jailor, Brown, (for such, indeed, that personage was,) ' they did not!  They knew too well for   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     187 their infamous ends, that I lived; and they know well, how wretched they made, and still would have made that life!" Seeing the fatal turn affairs were taking, the two worthies thus singled out made a quick effort at escape fi'om the room, but, at an earnest gesture from Carrolton, they were secured and committed to the servants for custody. "I thought my hand had slain you!" said Pearson, re- suming the thread which the arrest of Shelton and his tool had broken. "For that villain persuaded me!"  "Ah!" added Carrolton; "I see it all as I have before suspected it. I see-the motive of his reporting my death, of his casting the deed upon you, of my imprisonment, and even now, or his eagerness to wed his son with my daughter!" "Your imprisonment!" exclaimed Mr. Pearson. "Yes," answered Carrolton, and here he succinctly nar- rated all the events which le had before confided to Hautle- roy, and in which the reader is fully instructed. "Through the miscreant Shelton's representations," said Pearson, when Mr. Carrolton had finished his strange details, "I have, through life, thought myself the author of your death, and it was only upon the threat of his denunciation, that I assented to the marriage of his son with my darling Neva, for such she truly is to me. I took her first into my family, hoping, by my kindness to her, to atone, in some degree, for my injuries to her father. It was to save my family and herself too, that I wished to avoid the fatal expo- sure which the villain made the penalty of my refusal of his demands. The motive of his, wish for this marriage I have never divined." "Rest assured," interrupted Mr. Carrolton, " that it. was simply to secure to himself my stolen wealth, or at least to screen himself from public exposure, in the event of my   188     -JOCASSEE; OR IL OAPANNETTOo return and discovery of his frauds and crimes; which result he naturally feared after my escape from his clutches." Madame de Montfalt, with weeping eyes, at this point, offered her congratulations to the lost father and child, and, tendering her hand frankly to Pearson, prayed his forgive- ness for the harsh opinion she had, undeservedly, entertained of him. "My unhappy husband," said she, " imposed upon me the same story as upon you, but I accidentally became acquainted with the fact of his fraudulent possession of Mr. Carrolton's property, and this, added to his many former vices and crimes, compelled me to demand a separation, which he readily granted, and since which I have lived, until lately, among the scenes of my youth in Guadaloupe, and upon means which I possessed, independently of him. What made my horror of my husband's conduct towards Mr. Car- rolton's family greater, was, that my friend, Neva's mother, was a cherished friend of my younger days. About a year ago, a friend, returning from Charleston to Guadaloupe, hap- pened to mention that he had observed in the street a young lady singularly resembling our former companion, Mrs. Car- rolton; and he further stated that, upon inquiry, he learnt that she was an ininate, under the name of Cameron, in the family of a Mr. Pearson. This circumstance, of the great likeness, coupled with her residence with Mr. Pearson, of whose share in this unhappy affair I was well aware, persuaded me, despite the dissimilarity of name, that he had seen none other than the daughter of my friend. Upon this conviction, early in the summer I arrived in Charleston, and by means of which Neva is aware, satisfied myself of the truth of my belief. Here another surprise awaited me, when I recognized my long lost son as a suitor   JOCASSEE; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     189 for her hand. I loved my son, and 'was willing that his wishes should be gratified, if they were true and honourable. But my observations soon convinced me, that not love, but some motive of deep and unholy policy actuated him, in connection with her guardian, whom I imagined I had so much cause to detest and fear. I resolved to watch narrowly, and if a sacrifice was designed, to save the victim. For this purpose I took up my abode in this vicinity, following Neva and her friends. By accident, I became an inmate in the family itself, and was soon so entirely convinced of the just- ness of my fears, that mny course was finally resolved upon. It must have been an instinct of my designed interference, or perhaps a knowledge of it, even, which, in part, prompted the desperate violence from which I am but just rescued." Here the speaker related her adventures to the wondering audience, since her reported abrupt departure for the city. Mr. Carrolton and his daughter poured upon her their ardent thanks, and then taking his daughter's hand, the gen- tleman led her towards the ci devant artist, Morland. "And now, my child, even above the services of our dear friend, Madame de Montfalt, we must place those of this gentleman. It is to him I owe my release from prison, be- sides many other invaluable benefactions. Indeed, our joy- ful meeting to-day must, next to heaven, be ascribed to my good frienld, Hautleroy." t"Hautleroy!" exclaimed Neva, in surprise. "Hautleroy!" screamed every one in a breath, "Hautleroy! Ilautleroy!" "Even so, my kind friends," responded that-gentleman, en riant. "You must know," he added, turning to Carrolton, "that my residence here has been under the incognito of Morland, a poor devil of a painter. I took a fancy, for cer- tain reasons, to use that name as a sort of demi L Gyges' ring' to render '1Henry Hautleroy' invisible, while among his   190     JOCASSEE; OR IL OAPANNETTO. friends. Fortunately, no one detected my secret, excepting my sweet friend, Margaretta, and she," he added, turning towards Miss Pearson, with a very meaning smile, "only detected it when too late." Excepting by AMargaretta, who bit her lip until it rivalled the snow in whiteness, this remark was uninterrupted and passed unnoticed. In return for the thanks of Mr. Carrolton, he said with a serious air, ' Not a word more, my dear sir. I would ask a greater acknowledgment of the little aid it has been my great happiness to render you, than words alone can convey. If Miss Carrolton will transfer the regard which I flatter myself she firsf for the poor Morland, to the unworthy Henry Ilaut- leroy, I shall not fear to make the demand upon your bounty which my heirt prompts. The boon I would beg," he added, grasping "ievas unresisting hand with earnestness and emo- tion, i' is no less .than the angel I have happily aided in re- storing to your love!" In response to the mute prayer for assent, which now spoke in the eyes of the suitor, Neva suffered her fair hand to remain passively in his grasp, with a sweet smile fully in unison with the action of her father, when he pressed their united hands in his double clasp, and scarcely found voice to utter, "I thank thee, oh God! that thou hast given me, not one child only, but two! May thy blessing ever rest, as now, upon my daughter and my son!"   JOCASSEE ; OR IL CAPANNETTO.     191 CHAPTER XX. CONCLUSION. BUT little remains to be told of the romance of this adven- turous summer. In the loss of Henry Hautleroy, who, before leaving the "Iittle cottage," greeted his sweet Neva as a happy bride, and of her old suitor, Arthur Merriton, who, at the self-same hour placed a ring upon the finger of his beautiful Cecile, -Miss Pearson received a mortification of her unamiable pride and selfishness, which the wildest dissipations of fashion have since been unable to efface. Rather than subject Mr. Pear- son and his family to the exposure which would necessarily follow a judicial inquiry into the conduct of Shelton and his tools, those miscreants were set at liberty; but, in a few days, the elder villain, seized with a fit of remorse for his crimes, made a deposition by which Mr. Carrolton was fully indemnified for his stolen wealth, and then with his own hand ended his wretched existence. i Madame de Montfalt, who still retains her maiden name, which she had resumed after her separation from her hus- band, resides with her daughter and her happy husband. Mr. Carrolton is domiciled in the mansion of his children, and, the author is informed, spends at present much of his time in frolicsome gambols with a little cherub, said to be a third portrait of his regretted wife. Both Heartless and Ellen Vere duly won their wagers, but (fortunately or unfortunately, the author leaves it to the reader to determine) their play became earnest, even unto the exposing of the redoubtable Benedict to all the quips and quirks lang syne bestowed upon his great namesake. Doctor Quutem proved to the full conviction of our amia-   192      JOOASSEE; OR IL CAPA1NETTO. ble friend, Miss Woodlette, that he could not, byr any possi- ble means, resign her pleasant companionship, and it is now whispered that more than once he has been overheard, on moonlight nights, breathing in her ready ear the very touch- ing verses of Thomas Moore: "O1 I if there's a bliss above all that the minstrel hath told, 'Tis when two are link'd in one heavenly tie; With brow never changing and heart never cold, Live on through a11 il!& and love on till they die!"   THE PHRENOLOGIST; OR, THE TACTICS OF DOCTOR CRAN1UM. PART THE FIRST. IN the county of   , in one of our Southern States, there lies embedded in quiet repose, and far removed from the bustle and turmoil of the great world, a little town, bear- ing the musical and appropriate style and title of Seclusaval. To the denizens of this " happy village," the sun had, "within the memory of the oldest inhabitant," been accustomed to rise and set, bringing, with his approach and withdrawal, the regular alternation of day and night. Other equally novel and strange occurrences had, for many long years, blessed the eyes and stirred the hearts of the good people; but farther than this, the proverbial monotony of village life remained unbroken. Miss Priscilla Gossippa's bow window invariably made the same display, with the same old hat block, bearing the prince of bonnets, occupying the centre pane, and flanked on either side with junior stands, surmounted with the latest style of caps, over and around which fell gay ribbands, in the same lines of grace and beauty, and evincing, as always, Miss Priscilla's immaculate taste. The only variation was the change once a quarter, in the fashion-plates which filled the two outside panes, on either side of the caps; for these were 17   194        THE PHRENOLOGIST. substituted other two, cut from the last number of the Milli- ner's Magazine, which Miss Gossippa's " emporium of fashion" regularly imported from the metropolis. The arrival of this journal was always an event in the village, and the day had not passed before all eyes had witnessed the exhibition of the fine arts, and pronounced their various judgments thereupon. Miss Priscilla, also, never failed to make the annual altera- tions in widow C.'s summer and winter hats, and her black silk dress. She drank, too, the same quantity/of black and green tea, equally mixed, and delivered herself at the same time, of the same amount of scandal. Jerry Pipe, boniface of the "Lafayette Hall," daily piped up all hands at the, self- same hour, and prepared the usual number of glasses for his ante-breakfast customers, which he had been wont to do ever since he first held the worthy and honourable post of land- lord. Miss Seraphina Invallida, a young lady of nineteen, and of delicate nerves, swallowed daily the same number of Doctor Dubious's strengthening pills, which she did when she was a young lady of nineteen, ten years before. The same tableaux vivants were always to be seen before the door of Jerry Pipe's hospitable mansion, and the several shops and lounging places of the village. Indeed, the programme of one day's performance required only an alteration in the date, to answer for that of every other. Occasionally a solitary tra- veller and his steed stopped for the night, and excited a little ferment, but years had fled since even one stranger had made acquaintance, or taken up his abode in the place. Quietly and happily sped the days with the humble-and unsophisticated villagers, but CHANGE, that dire word which hangs like a pall over all things mutable, was brewing, even, for Secluvasal, 'great and novel events. It was a bright and balmy night in June, (every adventure happens upon a bright and balmy night in June,) not very   i              THE PHRENOLOGIST.       195 many years since, that the weekly mail rattled up to the door of the Lafayette Hall, with accelerated speed and an extra twang of the tin horn, evidently heralding the approach of somebody, or something of some consequence. Scarcely had the frightened dust settled quietly around the now indolent vehicle, when the various tableaux, of which we have spoken, vanished, and the performers congregated around it. Eager was the curiosity, and not slight the excitement, when the truth, the whole truth, appeared-the mail had brought down a passenger, a live passenger, with bag and baggage to match. That he must spend a whole week in the goodly village, was velry certain, for journeying in the mail, how-if he sojourned at all, and that he would do so was clear-was he to proceed before the next regular trip? Talk of the wag- ging of mad comet tails, and the fiery gambols of flashing meteors-here was matter of speculation, worthy of village curiosity, and high enough it ran; who, and what was he 8 What did he want? And where was he going? Was he wild, or was he tame? Harmless or dangerous? Were ques- tions on the lips of every man, woman, and child. ;But the guest, apparently unconscious of the sensation he was crea- ting, very cruelly, for that night, closed all the sluices of in- formation as to his appearance and business,-by pleading fa- tigue, and taking immediate possession of his apartment, the star-chamber of the inn. The post-man was the only bulletin in this emergency, and great was expectation, as he discoursed to them of his travel- ler's sociable and winning manners, of his " power o' learn- ing," and more than all, sundry hints of an intended prolong- ed sojourn at Seclusaval, and possibly, a final abode in the village. To make a long story short, suffice it, that time satisfied all their curiosity, and fully realized Jehu's hints. Several   19'6       THE PHRENOLOGIST. weeks fled, and Mr. Dobson, the stranger, had become almost domiciled among them; charming them with his varied knowledge of the great world without, and his willing man- ner of imparting it to others. With the old men, he dis- coursed oracularly but deferentially, upon the politics and po- litical magnets of the country, with all of whom he was upon an intimate and respected footing. With the old women, he expatiated upon domestic economy, ethics in general, and the great secret of bringing up children in the way in which they should go. For the young men, he had recollections of many a gay and mad adventure; for the belles, soft and touching speeches-extracts from and criticisms upon the poets, and glowing tales of fashionable life and love ; in all of which, he himself, Mr. Dobson, had been a " bright particular star ;" and lastly, for the juveniles, he brushed up his reminiscences of Robinson Crusoe and the Arabian Nights ; crammed his capacious pockets with " goodies," and turning his venerated knee into an express mail, initiated each little darling into the modus operandi of "Riding cock-horse, To Banbury crosS t A great favourite did Mr. Dobson become, and soon he knew the peculiar characters of all the people of Secluvasal, and the region round about, better than they did themselves. His inquiries, to be sure, came at times rather thick and fast, and he had a habit of writing very much after his inquisito- rial confabs. This fact, though a little suspicious at first, was soon, however, attributed to Mr. Dobson's philosophic eye and mind; to his accustomed habit of great and close observation and investigation, and to his peculiar position as an author,-- for it had escaped that he was a distinguished and learned producer in the mart of letters, and in speaking of his inten- tions touching a future residence, he had hinted his decided   ,4            THE PHRENOLOGIST.        197 I:-v  satisfaction with Seclusaval, and the little consequence where his abode was, inasmuch as his business laid with the great metropolitan publishers, and could be transacted in a short i   yearly visit, while the bulk of his time might be spent just as well in one secluded nook as another. A great change was soon visible in the habits of the good people of Seclusaval. The number of loungers sensibly de- 5'   creased. Mr. Dobson's small travelling library was scattered through the village. Inquiry for truth was set on foot. Am- bition was fairly aroused, and a thirst for the knowledge which gave Mr. Dobson such evident superiority, seized every soul. Mr. Dobson, too, took care to increase the rising flame, by discoursing-with all his enthusiasm upon the blessings of in- tellectual lore, and the unspeakable exstacies of an admission within the hidden and mystic arcana of wisdom. He dwelt glowingly upon the grand operations of scientific laws and causes, and upon the rapid advance which mankind were making in their mysteries. He adverted to the various novel and startling theories, which the age was producing-some he eulogized, others he condemned-particularly did he pour out the vials of his wrath and ridicule upon the then young doctrine of Phrenology, with its wonderful developments. Of this science the people had before scarcely heard, never thought, and now knew nothing, save what they gleaned from Mr. Dobson's abuse.  The more violent his condemnation and sarcasm, the greater was the dignity which the matter received in their eyes, and the deeper their curiosity. It be- came the general theme of converse; the " literary club," which Mr. Dobson had already formed, waived all other sub- jects, and night after night debated and debated this one theory.  Mr. Dobson invariably had the negative of the ques- tion, and maintained his position with such acrimony, that his opponents (and all the villagers were among them) soon 17*   198        T THE PHRENOLOGIST. came to believe the truth of their own arguments. Mr, Dob- son had opened their eyes to their dormant powers, and they now took pride in showing their growth in knowledge by wrangling with their tutor. About this time there came to Secluvasal a new and beautiful hot-pressed volume upon the very subject, written by the great champion of the science, Doctor Dionysius Cranium. It was addressed to "J. Dob- son, Esq., with the high regards of the author." Accompa- nying it, also, was a deferential and conciliatory note to Mr. D. in the professor's own hand, in which he apologized for the liberty he had taken in addressing -him, strangers as they unfortunately were. He spoke in terms of praise of the great power displayed in Mr. Dobson's recent " refutations " in the World newspaper, of his beloved science, which he followed by conclusive arguments (to all except Mr. Dobson) in its support. He begged Mr. Dobson to give an attentive peru- sal to his little volume, and hoped it would have the effect of bringing over to the cause of truth, his (Mr. Dobson's) great and conceded powers. The note finally hinted the possibili- ty of the doctor's even visiting Secluvasal at some future day, and affording his esteemed, though personally unknown friend, occular proof of his great doctrines. This note and book, while it heightened the general defer- ence for Mr. Dobson's character and talents, strengthened the belief in the minds of the people as to the truth of Phrenolo- gy, and increased the violence of their opposing arguments. Often was Mr. Dobson challenged to invite the doctor to Be- cluvasal, and hear the matter fairly weighed and tested. This, however, he obstinately declined, until a committee of the people themselves addressed a note to the great man, solicit- ing a visit to their humble village. Soon came a reply, in- which the doctor spoke of present ill-health, from the extent of his arduous labours, and accepting at once the apropos in-   "b :THE PHRENOLOGIST.                   199 vitation of the " enlightened community of Secluvasal, to the country air and quiet of their beautiful village." PART THE SECOND. DOCTOR CRANIUM'S promise was made in good faith, and promptly redeemed; so promptly, that the committee ap- pointed to receive him had the pleasure of discharging that duty at the next arrival of the weekly mail. Their greetings were hearty and respectful, and were returned by the debu- tant with extreme condescension and cordiality.- All were urgent for an immediate display of his great powers, but this the doctor begged to defer, for a day or two at least, until he had recovered from the fatigues of his journey. In the mean- while, he observed he should keep his room, both to gain the ;  repose so necessary to him, and that no previous knowledge of his friends might lessen the conclusiveness of the facts he should exhibit. On this latter account he begged, too, that he should be introduced to no one of the villagers, and that none, not even the landlord, would violate the seclusion of his apartments. The doctor was retiring, when an officious ^- youth, with an ardour for the science, as great as his igno- rance, detecting the retreating person of Mr. Dobson, laid violent hands upon him, and insisted upon presenting him to the stranger.  The introduction, upon the part of the iatter, elicited earnest expressions of delight and pride, but his ur- banity was returned with almost ill-bred coldness. This con- duct not a little affronted the hospitable people, who now began to regard the doctor in the light of a persecuted and insulted man--a martyr to the truth ; and they felt disposed, therefore, to receive him with increased confidence.   200        THE PHRENOLOGIST. On the following day, the doctor's meals were sent to hit rooms, and nothing was seen of him in the village. Mr Dobson, also, was almost as exclusive, and on his visits to the table d'hbte he wore an expression extremely thoughtful anc cross. This his opponents ascribed to the consciousness o: his approaching defeat aud their triumph. He was also pro bably offended that the stranger had been put into a room adjoining his own, but they laughingly assured him that hiE neighbour would not bite him-there. To appease the popular curiosity as much as possible, the doctor had, on the morning after the first day of his arrival, caused to be posted throughout the village, a card announc- ing a popular lecture for the ensuing day, in which he would give a "succinct narrative of the rise and progress of the wonderful and astounding science of PHRENOLOGY, most hap- pily and truly termed the science of the human mind and soul! At the close of the lecture," the card announced, " he would present to the audience incontrovertible and miracu- lous proofs of the truth of his doctrines, by examining the heads of any present, and drawing therefrom a true picture of character and feeling."  Below followed "testimonials from the highest sources of his deep and profound researches in the subject; the invaluable light which his erudite mind had cast upon its yet imperfectly known theories; and the singular and unrivalled success of his demonstrations. These testimonials he presented, not because they were required, but as a matter of form, and that those who were ignorant of his labours and fame-if any such existed in so enlightened a community-might not be deterred from instructing them- selves, by supposing him one of the thousands of charlatans by whom the divine study was, unhappily, so much abused." In conclusion, the doctor candidly confessed that "he thought the ' labourer worthy of his hire,' and that his lec-   THE PHRENOLOGIST.         201 jX  tures and examinations must be remunerated, but the more particularly so, as his contributions, in numerous ways, for the advance and improvement of the science, were very great. Still, in the present instance, he should reduce his fees to a mere moiety of their usual amount, that all might enjoy the -I  benefits of his developments. The admission ticket, there- fore, to his lecture would be only one dollar; the examina- tion of a head, with a written chart of character, ten dollars, or without the chart, only five dollars. Children and negroes half price." All Seclusaval was congregated in the lecture room at the appointed hour, staring with astonished eyes at the array of plaster heads upon the table, with their mysterious intersect- ing lines and figures. The doctor's welcome, as he walked with solemn dignity to the rostrum, must have been exceed- ingly gratifying to him, especially as the assembled shouters were chiefly of an age which put them  in the most valuable :  and profitable class of auditors. When the greeting uproar was hushed, the   orator, with artistic grace, made divers changes in the  geography  of the casts, described sundry curves with his spotless linen cambric, glanced at his repeater, and, with a musical voice and  polished action, unclosed the portals of wisdom  and  let flow the stream of living words which  was to enlighten and electrify assembled Seclusaval. d In other phrase, he commenced his speech, and    a brilliant speech it was, judging from  the frequent and hearty plaudits, but it must find another reporter than ourself, for time forbids our speaking of the eloquence of the exordium; of the lucid manner in which  he  traced the birth and growth of the study; of the singularly comprehensive definition of the province of Phrenology;   of his generous eulogium  of its high-priest, Spurzheim; and, lastly, of the mighty results   -202        THE PHRENOLOGIST. that were to accrue to the world from its revelations-ho every character was to be instantly read, and how peoep might thus safely court or avoid their fellow men, and hoe each might know and pursue that walk in life which heave designed him to fill. Suffice it, that when the lecture was concluded, and th professor had first accurately traced the characters of Miltol Bacon, Washington, a murderer and an idiot boy, by th developments upon the plaster heads, the only questio among the audience was, who should first have the privileg of obeying the Greek proverb, " know thyself." This honot the doctor proffered, gratuitously, to Mr. Dobson, who ha sat a moody auditor of the lecture. Mr. Dobson at fire flatly, refused to countenance such nonsense, but was at lengt prevailed upon to accede. As trait upon trait of Mr. Dobson's character was unfoldec the hearers, in silent wonder, acknowledged the diviner skill. "I find," continued the manipulator, running his 'finger over the subject's caput, "that the organ of Argumentative ness is prominent, together with all other organs which unit and support its successful development. This, the audienc may say, I know well enough from what I have read of th gentleman's works, particularly those in which he labour, and so ably, to controvert my own opinions. I admit it, an, I only mention, for your satisfaction, that here the organ is with all the prominence in which you would suppose it t exist. But further-you have, perhaps, only seen this get tleman in his mild and even moments; you will hardly sur pose that Combativeness is as strongly developed as Argu mentativeness. Yet so it is, and if aroused, he will be a ready to fight as to dispute. In fact, he is naturally verj   !X          THE PHRENOLOGIST.        203 quarrelsome, though his developments of Caution and Bene- volence counteract the exercise of his pugnacious humour in a great measure." "I beg to say," here interrupted the subject, "that your last remark is satisfactory evidence of the weakness and pre- tension of your doctrine. Your picture of my disposition is utterly erroneous." "You imagine so," was the mild reply. "But how seldom we know ourselves. The organ I speak of, I see before me as plainly developed as your nose, and I know that it cannot lie. You are given to quarrel." i "You are wrong, sir, wholly wrong-I do not believe 'ne word of your murnmery!" "Patience, my dear sir. Time and occasion will furnish   you and others prdoofs of my assertion." "It never can, sir. I am not obstinate or quarrelsome, not in the least degree." '"You certainly are, sir." "Do you give me the lie, sir 2" "Only in judgment, sir." "Sir! you are an arrant imposter! a pitiful humbug!" cried the patient, starting up, now fairly exasperated: " and there, sir, is my opinion of you," he added, at the same in- stant bringing his right foot in such unpleasant intimacy with the doctor's person, that that worthy gentleman's bump of Amativeness was enlarged until he kissed the floor. The bully then proffered the same kind show of respect to any individual present who would presume to endorse the doc- tor's obnoxious opinions. Dire and instant was the confusion in the audience. All tongues wagged against Mr. Dobson, and all sympathies were active and eloquent in favour of the other party. The doctor quickly regained his feet and his temper, and   204        THE PHRENOLOGIST, said quietly, " that he forgave the ill-treatment of the gentle- man, as, in his intemperate conduct, he had given undeniable and occular proof against himself, and in maintenance of the truth of his assertion that the subject's disposition was pugna- cious! The laugh against Mr. Dobson was general, and that gentleman himself, a few minutes afterwards, advanced with a very crest-fallen air, and seeming suddenly to repent his uncourteous action, very magnanimously apologized for the affront; confessed his skepticism shaken, and that he was now ready to see and hear with a mind less prejudiced. Here was another triumph for the doctor, and he now swam on the full tide of success. He announced that in his exami- nations he should waive all introductions, and even decline learning his subjects' names, that all shadow of doubt might be removed. Again the people glanced triumphantly at poor Mr. Dobson. That gentleman stood near Doctor Cranium, and when Squire Clarke took the patient's chair, he-Mr. Dobson-slightly closed his left eye. What the phrenolo- gist thought of such singular conduct,!-is out of our power to say, but certain it is that he observed it, and that he imme- diately after glanced at a little roll of MS. before him. This done, he revealed the lawyer's character in colours so pre- cisely the same as those in which it appeared to his neigh- bours, that they were all flattered with their own insight into the human mind, amused at the Squire's expense--for he was less flattered than others-and astonished at the opera- tor's wonderful power. Another subject came-and    Mr. Dobson closed his dexter eye. -Doctor Cranium noticed the- restless action-noticed also his manuscripts, and then noticed the bumps of his subject as truly as before. A third, a fourth, and a  fifth Lcustomer presented, and Mr. Dobson's attitudes and motions were " ever changing, ever new." The doctor must have been annoyed thereby, for he never failed   THE PHRENOLOGIST.        205 to note each alteration. The people; ascribed the ill-bred restlessness to the working in poor Mr. Dobson's mind of that unpleasant emotion-conviction against one's will. Thick and fast the applicants came, and with almost divine insight did the great Cranium open their heart-chambers to the public gaze. In one instance, only, the doctor seemed for a moment at fault. A man came up, who' dwelt remote from the town, and very seldom left his own cabin. He was evidently a stranger (and the only one present) to Mr. Dobson. When he took his seat, Mr. D's. nervousness vanished; he looked very anxious, very blue, and his lips got up a particular and pressing affection for each other. The doctor's face reflected his puzzled visage. He looked inquiringly at him, from him to his MS., and so back and forth several times, but evidently without being satisfied. Art length, Mr. Dobson's head per- formed an incipient shake, whereupon the professor fell to work with an appearance of desperate resolution. "I see," he began, (" that on this head Courage is remark- ably full, which trait will lead the possessor to--" "Stop, mister! there you're out," cried a voice proceeding from one of the patient's enemies--a bully who had an old score against him, and had long sought in vain for an oppor- tunity of settling it. "He is as great a coward, sir, as ever walked the earth." "That he is," added several corroboratiig voices. "Patience, my  friends," said Doctor Cranium. I per- ceive, also, that Caution is still more strongly developed, which organ not only keeps the former in check, but entirely subdues it." The explanation was satisfactory, and he continued-- "Benevolence is large, which will prompt him to deeds of charity, and--" 18   206        THE PIIRENOLOGIST.           I "The d--1 it will!' cried another voice. "Every body knows him to be the stingiest fist between here and eternity." "You are too hasty in your conclusions, gentlemen," re- turned the doctor, hemming several times at this new faux pas. "Have the kindness to hear me out. I should have said, that to nullify the organ of Benevolence, that of Acqui- sitiveness exists in unusual strength. Its effect is to subdue the generous feeling, and prompt him to a course of parsi- mony almost miserly. My friends! The art I profess is one requiring intense and unceasing study. In the first place, is necessary, a singular delicacy of touch, only acquired by long experience--in order to measure the extent of a develop- ment; and secondly,; great powers of comparison and judg- ment, by which to contrast the various conflicting organs, determine which has the mastery, and from the whole draw truthful conclusions. Your ignorance of this nice fact has made my art, for an instant, appear insufficient. The develop- ment of one organ does not speak a man's character, while there is another, quite opposite, to counteract it. No more so, than a person with a pocket full of money is rich, while beside him stands his creditor to the full amount." Again the doctor's star was in the ascendant; save in this one instance, he was in all completely successful, and during the evening a large amount was added to his purse. His fame circled the country round, and he reigned the lion of the time. Every day increased his reputation and his wealth. The ladies were received, and their characters drawn with amazing gallantry, yet with stern truth-excepting, only, in the case of Miss Seraphina Invalida, already introduced to the reader. In this instance, the doctor was thought to be partial, and to be actuated by some ulterior views, for he endowed the lady with every virtuous and attractive trait which his chart possessed. This graceful flattery, judiciously   THE PHRENOLOGIST.        207 applied at intervals, for several succeeding weeks, and aided by other love nostrums, the management of which the doctor thoroughly understood, had its due effect; and, in the course of time, the great Phrenologist, who had often postponed his departure, was at length to take up his permanent abode in Seclusaval, idolized by the people, and the happy lord of the lovely Miss Invalida, and her more lovely acres. Mr. Dob- son, in the meantime, had avowed himself a convert to the powerful force of truth, and was now the doctor's Achates- his constant companion and champion. His reputed powers, too, had dazzled the eyes of a fair daughter of Seclusaval, whose face, though charmingly sweet, was far from being her fortune. Proud were the good villagers to secure the society of two such able and worthy men. The hour at length arrived, for the foreclosing of the mortgages held by the dis- tinguished strangers upon the hearts of the village damsels. Preparations never before heard of in Seclusaval were made for the double nuptials. The guests were congregated; the blushing brides, in all the panoply of lace and satin and floral gems, awaited only the appearance of the two Benedicts-elect fi'om their tiring room, when the noise of the abrupt entrance in the hall of four additional and travel-stained visitors, called away' the smiling mammas and papas. PART THE THRD. "WE must apologize," said the leader of the unbidden guests, of whom we have spoken, when they were met by the perplexed hosts; " we must apologize for our seeming inci- vility; but the matter is urgent. We seek two fugitives   208        THE PHRENOLOGIST. from justice, whom we understand to be at present in this house." "My good sirs! This is passing strange. This is some singular mistake; there never has been such persons as you speak of in Seclusaval, much less in this house, and at this time." "No, sir! no! They are here, though under what names I don't know-their assortment is so extensive. Hark! what voices are those? Certainly the very chaps!" "Nonsense, sirs! These are the great Doctor Dionysius Cranium, and J. Dobson, Esq., honourable and wealthy gen- tlemen; and at this instant on the eve of marriage with the brightest stars of our village!" "HonoUrable! Marriage! the scoundrels! Lead the way, sir-silently; they must not escape us! Not a word, sir. I know the birds, and my warrant is all sufficient." Thus speaking, the officers-for such they were-followed by the astonished and stupified hosts, and many of the guests, moved noiselessly .toward the apartment occupied by the grooms. These gentlemen, it seems, carried away by their visions of prospective happiness, had indulged too libe- rally in the sparkling cup, and forgetful of the French pro- verb-" les murailles out des oreilles"-were discoursing with an unreserve, and in a key very unsuited to their theme and place of converse. "Ah! ah! Dobson," cried the metamorphosed doctor, as he raised the cup to his lips, " never have poor devils held such hands or played them so well, as have we the last three months." "Especially theface cards! ay, doe. That's the climax of our fortunes. To think of our turning wealthy Benedicts, and 'leading men' in a quiet village. Here's to the lovely Seraphina! May she quickly consign you to your merited fate, a--noose." \,   THE PHRENOLOGIST.       209 "My thanks, Dob.; our adventure would, indeed, be news to some people. Let me pledge you the charming Lucy. May she, too, soon lead you to your deserved doom, the halter." "Ha! ha! ha! Another glass, doctor, to the poor gulls of Seclusaval. You have played all your parts inimitably. Do you know I feared that you would mistake some of my sig- nals on our first night's performance, and read the wrong character?" "And I trembled, Dob., lest you had imposed too much upon your memory, and should give me a wrong clue to my MS. Egad! you must have improved your time before my arrival. But you can win your way any where, my boy! Your characters were compiled in a style worthy of Shaks- peare's searching mind. How did the copy of my treatise and the letter serve you?" "Ha! ha! They came just in the nick o' time; they aided my plot wonderfully. And that little chapter on Combative- ness was a glorious coup de pied? Ay, doctor." "To tell you the truth, Dobson, I thought you overacted that part a little; your salute seemed more vigorous than was agreed on." "Oh! 'an error of judgment' of yours, my dear doc. But you know I had to make it a knock-down argument." "Well, well, Dob., never mind; it paid well; and now, before we descend-" "Before we descend, my prince of bumpists, here's a bumper to the mighty science of bumps, which has bumped ug into pleasant homes and bumping fortunes. Our friends have treated us well, but they have had their quid pro quo, for have not we supplied them liberally with characters, and--" "In so doing, have reserved none for yourselves, my 18*   210        THE PHRENOLOGIST. beauties!" interrupted the startling voice of the' officer, now followed by the crowd into the room. "Ay! ah! what--what is this, gentlemen 2 This is some mis-mistake, sirs! What is your er-errand, gentlemen 2 We are Doctor Dionysius Cranium, and J. Dobson, Esquire! We-" "Oui, messieurs. Glad to see you," added the officer, with mock courtesy. "How have you been since last we met? Permit us, gentlemen, to feel your pulses-very irre- gular-very; suffer that steel to remain over them---'twill be beneficial-cool them down. You must accompany us, gen- tlemen, to the public accommodations provided for all who do the State such service as you have done. The public is vastly interested in the health of such great men. They must not waste the fragrance of their powers upon the desert air of Seclusaval." So pressing were the invitations of the strangers, that Doc- tor Cranium and Mr. Dobson were induced to accept them, not only at the cost of a postponement sine die of the wait- ing nuptials, but without even a farewell glimpse of the deserted brides. Ah! ah! Life is a fickle jade--fickle as a woman's will; Fortune's favourite holds all the honours and trumps at one instant, and when but one more trick is wanted to fill the game, not even a ten-spot is in his hand. Seclusaval--" sweet, smiling village!" a sad mortification was the Phrenologist's hoax to thee; but sadder yet-it un- closed to thine eye a cold, black page in life, before unread, of man's deceit and the world's damning falsity. It blasted with a rude hand, and forever, thine ignorant and innocent confidence in the purity and truth of thy fellows. It im- planted within thy breast, and never to be eradicated, a chilly jealousy and suspicion not only of the world without, qut of thine own fireside friends.   THE TRAVELLERS' CLUB; OR, "GHTS AND SHADES OF LOCOMOTION. IT was the anniversary of -our club-apropos-a word here; a capital affair is our club-"The Travellers' Club." It is an organization which resulted, a few years ago, from a romantic freak of a clique of merry fellows, " sons of for- tune"-that is to say, sons of no fortune; a set of adven- turers of that fated cosmopolitan, comet genus, who seem doomed through life to make the world their oyster ; con- demned, like the auctioneer's chattels, to be eternally "go- ing ;" to stand ever ready with their " boats upon the shore, and their barques upon the sea." A good joke it would be-the telling of that same freak, from whose ashes sprang the phoenix of our glorious club; but I must, ex necessitate, deny the reader and myself the pleasure of the recital. Suffice it, that the original members of the society were, in early youth, boon companions and tried friends. As the days of manhood stole on, they found themselves, without exception, becoming confirmed travellers, and consequently seldom able to command each other's happy society as in days of yore. To obviate, as far as pos- sible, this difficulty, and to keep the lang syne coal of love alive and burning, some plan was demanded. Cogitating   212       THE TRAVELLERS' CLUB. the matter, the whole body was felicitously struck with the "Travellers' Club," and went forthwith into the adoption of the luminous idea, determining that it should be the very club by which they would ward off the threatened blow of estrangement and forgetfulness among their once devoted number. Oh! a glorious conception was the Travellers' Club, and many a joyous hour and gladsome thought it has yielded me in my-varied peregrinations : God bless it! Our president and secretary were the oldest members of the soci- ety, and residents of the city, having attained the requisite qualification-as we shall soon show-for the privilege of "settling down," where cars and steamboats cease from troubling and the traveller is at rest. This (" qualification," of which we speak, was the accom- plishment of fifty thousand miles of tr'avel; no member, un- able to make that boast, being permitted, by the constitution, to reside for a longer time than one year in the same place. Our constitution further provided for the holding of an annual meeting of the club, at which the officers, and always more or less of the members, were present; these meetings being held in the "Great Metropolis," to which accident or design was sure to lead some, at all seasons. At these ananiversaries, the secretary read letters from the absentees, each one being required to address, annually, a communication to the club giving a  sketch of his movements and adventures during the past year, his then whereabouts, and future projects. The members present, also, handed to the secretary similar docu- ments. From these letters it was the secretary's duty to compile a bulletin to each absent member, containing a con- densed synopsis of all the other sheets. In this manner, a full knowledge of the whole band was possessed by each. The effect of this combination was a species of Masonic influ- ence, by which a  feeling of brotherly love was fostered and   THE TRAVELLERSI CLUB.      213 cemented throughout the club. Did member meet member- no matter where under the light of the blessed sun that meet- ting occurred, and no matter if they had never before seen each other's countenances-the magic mention of the "Tra- vellers' Club" made them instant and sworn friends. Our president, I have said, had attained to the privilege of " ces- sation," yet when he sat down, it was with a brow wreathed in laurel. He had travelled " all countries all over," and could count his hundred thousand miles. A veteran rover was he, and ardent were the glances of esteem and love cast upon him as he filled his chair of office. And well too did he fill that same chair. Upon the portraits of Humboldt, Park, Jones, Laborde, Cook, Columbus, and other illustrious men, which adorned the walls of the club-room, he gazed with a look of fraternal love and- equality, rather than of veneration. Those of La Martine, Stephens, Catherwood, Ross, Norman, and others--honourary members- he regarded with a glance of mild approval and encouragement, and fatherly affection; but the god of his idolatry was an authen- tic bust of the Wandering Jew, which stood on a pedestal, the most honoured among all the canonized names around. This immortal personage is the presiding deity and patron saint of our glorious club; inductions into membership and office are made in his name, and all oaths are sealed upon the foot of thie pedestal bearing his sacred form. Besides the illustrious names recorded, our club-room walls exhibit testimonies of respect to other renowned men, who have deserved undying remembrance in the hearts of all true rovers. The immortal Venetian is seen there, bearing his matchless discovery-the mariner's compass; Fulton is pointing triumphantly to the wonderful steamboat; Jabez Doolittle is going full tilt, the Lord knows where, upon the top of his "first locomotive ;" a balloon--is suspended, with   214       THE TRAVELLERS7 CLUB. prophetic ken, over the presidential chair; Professor Morse is there with his electro-magneticl wires ; and last of all, that wonderful magician, Mesmer, and his clairvoyante patients, are seen penetrating, with winged speed, the remotest nooks of the globe, But, perhaps, reader, you imagine that so old a cruiser as myself ought to have better learnt the art of locomotion, than to linger so long at the outset. True; the circum- stances of the case required me to introduce you to our club, and yet with the club, per se, I have not to do. My aim was to present a picture of the pleasures and annoyances of a tourist's life,- and it seemed to me that I could not better effect my end, than by drawing upon the experience of such profound professors of locomotion as are found in our society. On the anniversary in question, it singularly happened that over one-half of our number were assembled from the seve- ral corners of the earth; a merry night was waning; the annual business was accomplished, and the members indulg- ing themselves in delightful, gossiping reminiscence. The conversation fell upon the comparative happiness of the rover, and he who quietly passes life under the same vine and fig- tree. Many held, against all comers, that there was no life like the traveller's life; while others, true to human nature, contested this high eulogy, and vented deep dissatisfaction at their destiny, and envy of the lot of those conversely fated. At length, turning to a member who had not before spoken, the secretary demanded of him his estimate of the enjoy- ments of travel. ' Travel? well, really; I suppose it has its clouds as well as its sunshine, yet I take it, the sunshine has the best of it. Indeed, I don't know but that the annoyances themselves, if rightly met, are productive of the most genuine pleasure. This is slighty paradoxical to be sure, yet I'll cite you an in- y   THE TRAVELLERS7 CLUB.      215 stance, and I doubt not your own experience will lead you to acknowledge the truth of my proposition. I shall not twat- tle upon the sentimental doctrine of the necessity of sympa- thy to the production of true enjoyment. Not a bit of such girlish stuff: Laura Matilda go to the -- . I only want, not to be quite alone-just a few good fellows along, who'll throw care to the dogs; laugh at fortune's rubs-the harder the rub, the louder the laugh; and who'll make themselves happy and at home every where. My hotel, whether in the north, south, east, or west, is, for the time being, my own especial sanctum, as familiar as my boyhood's home. In my landlord, I invariably recognize an old chum; and in the chamber-maid, a favourite sweetheart. Egad! I'm ' at home'- perfectly-to all intents and purposes. Just such a man-a man after my own heart-was Captain Bull. Captain Bull! Ah! ah! He was a grand fellow! A right up and down, square off philosopher. I saw it in his eye; I looked him through and through in five seconds. We met for the first time, as I then supposed, on board the steamer Kentucky, at Baltimore. We were bound for the south-west, via Charles- ton. It was in the year '88, just when the universal preva- lence of Yellow Jack in the South had caused a derangement and uncertainty in the public conveyances to these latitudes. I saw Bull enter his name. I Captain Bull,' said I, approach- ing him and offering my hand, 'Captain Biull-Jonathan Ramble, at your service and desirous of your acquaintance.'" "Ramble! glad to see you!" returned Bull, frankly accept- ing my hand. "Ramble-Ramble-pretty large family.   I believe I may claim relationship. I'm a Rambler myself. The addition of the 'r' you see makes no difference. I'm the larger man, and you have been to school? you- know the degrees? ramble, rambler, ramblest. Ay? you are positive, I am comparative, and for superlative--gad! I have a ras-   216       THE TRAVyiJTRS' CLUB. cally nephew who can come in for that title. Like a par- tridge, the villain began to run as soon as he had nibbled the shell, and I have only caught a glimpse of him now and then since, as he heaves in sight and out again, like that poor Rotterdam merchant of cork leg celerity. But, as I was saying, I'm glad to find that we are related. .Let me wel- come you to my boat, here-glad to see you, Ramble; make yourself at home!" "Thank you," I replied. ":I imagined this my boat, and addressed you with the very same purpose of bidding you welcome." "Ah! ah! a true, traveller you, Ramble. By the way, you are bound southward of course. I hear that many others of our family on board are similarly destined. Now, the route is so broken up by this cursed fever, that I fear we shall have difficulty in getting along, unless we submit to sundry impositions. This we might obviate by uniting in a sort of company. Ay ." I acceded, and the captain, with- out any hesitation, hailed the steward and instructed him to ring his bell, and request all passengers bound for and be- yond Charleston, to assemble in the cabin, instanter. The steward rang, and obeying the novel summons, a crowd of laughing and curious phizes quickly followed Bull and myself below. The captain moved that his friend, Mr. Jonathan Ramble, take the chair; which motion being carried, I was duly in- stalled, and Bull, rising, explained the object of the meeting. I pass-over his speech, which was amusing enough; suffice it to record, that he explained his wish to form an association of the southern travellers, during the trip, for their mutual and general benefit, comfort and amusement, as occasions might render the society subservient to those ends. The proposal was received with acclamation, and a com-   THE TRAVELLERS' CLUB.       21  mittee, appointed for the purpose, in due time reported a brief code of laws for the government of the association. Twenty-seven instantly signed the bond. Bull was elected captain; Ramble, secretary ; another, treasurer; and a fourth, baggage-master-general. To the last office, owing to its arduous duties, a new incumbent was to be elected daily. The captain's field of duty is obvious. My own, as secretary, was to keep and call the roll at every stage in the journey. The treasurer's duty was to purchase tickets for the associa- tion, which he afterwards arranged with them individually, at leisure. The baggage-master-general was required to keep an invoice of all trunks, see them duly transferred from one conveyance to another, and at each stage report to the cap- tain. The association resolved itself into a standing commit- tee of the whole, for the transaction of all business. Exhaust- less was the mirth accruing from this novel movement, and pleasant was the journey--under the administration of Cap- tain Bull-from that hour to the close.       k At Portsmouth, our new officers were first required to exercise their functions. The hour of departure having arrived, the conductor of the railway train was preparing to start, when our captain, backed by his company of twenty- seven, demanded a pause until his officers had reported " all right." A few moments after, the baggage-master-general entered, with advice that all baggage was duly stowed; the treasurer arrived with tickets; the secretary called the roll, which being regularly answered, Captain Bull nodded-to the conductor, the conductor rang his bell, and off we rattled, scarcely able to tell who were most diverted-the loiterers left behind, the new passengers on board, or ourselves. At Halifax, in North-Carolina, we left the railroad for stage-coaches--the Wilmington railway being at that time far from complete. A night and a day did we jolt in those 19   218       THE TRAVELLERS7 CLUB. same post-coaches, and many were the diverting incidents which occurred, and which, unfortunately, I must not pause to relate; not even, how sitting down to table and detecting a soiled cloth, Captain Bull instantly required a clean one to be substituted, before his company could think of eating; nor, how arriving at a " dinner house," proverbially question- able, we unanimously and en masse resolved not to dine, by way of giving Boniface a hint to mend his larder. One thing, however, I cannot possibly omit; we had occasion to take tea at one of those rascally places, (it was on the Wil- mington railway,) where their niggardly custom is, to set you down and ring you up, before you have had time to swallow three mouthfuls. Now, aware of the practice of this vil- lainy in the house in question, we resolved, in the omnipo- tence of our corporate strength, to administer a gentle rebuke. We took our seats at a board, inviting enough in all respects, yet, as usual, no sooner had we commenced upon the viands, than that horrid bell fell ominously upon our ears. We instantly left the room, every man securing one or more dishes, with which he coolly walked off to the cars, while the treasurer paid the bill, and politely informed the landlord that his friends would eat their supper at leisure in the cars, and leave the crockery, subject to his order, in Wilmington. Wilmington-that reminds me that it is time I was there, for there the utility and glory of our new association shone preeminent. At Wilmington we expected to take boat for Charleston; but we were disappointed at learning that for three successive tri-weekly trips the boat had failed. It was five o'clock in the morning when we arrived, and at eight the boat was again due. Although resolved to proceed in some way, we awaited the expected hour, before entertaining other modes of locomotion. The hour came, but the steamer came not. What was to be done? Something, certainly.   THE TRAVELLERS' CLUB.      219 Captain Bull assembled his corps to consult upon the dilem- ma. "To go, or not to go," was the question, and to go was the stern and universal resolve, "spite of big guns and little fishes," as Bull had it. "How to go?" then became the query, and to answer this, a committee of ways and means was appointed, to repair instantly to the wharves, and procure any accommodation that offered, of the respectability of a raft and upwards. While this committee was absent on duty, another was appointed to communicate with seven gen- tlemen, whom we understood to have been for more than a week, awaiting the arrival of the Charleston boat. Our com- mittee invited them to join our association, and take seats in our councils, which invitation they readily accepted, swelling our number to thirty-four strong. This by-play was barely over when the committee of ways and means reported no charterable craft- in harbour, save the Cotton Plant, a half condemned steamer. This hulk we could procure, at a rea- sonable price, to convey us to Smithville, a place twenty-five miles distant, on the sea-beach. At this point, it was sup- posed probable that a pilot, or other boat, could be obtained to transport us to Charleston. The vessel was instantly engaged, and ordered into immediate preparativeness. At two in the afternoon we were to sail, and at one o'clock, pre- parations for embarkation were made. Right merry was all Wilmington that day; Captain Bull marshalled his company, and marched them slowly to the river; the baggage-master- general followed with all the drays of the place loaded, and the rear was made up by hundreds of the citizens, rending the air with their hearty merriment. Oh! it was a glorious time. I could have gone at that moment to the bottom of the deep, deep sea, with the rest. We thought not of the prospective pleasures of a voyage, under such auspicious circumstances, but hailed the "Cotton Plant" as a veritable   220       THE TRAVELLERS CLUB* ark, sent to rescue us from the flood of disappointment im- pending over us. We embarked, and moved gallantly off amid the laughs of our own party, and the boisterous cheers of our friends on the wharves. Scarcely were we under way, when, discovering other passengers to be on board than our own corps, it occurred to us to demand their fare, and thus reduce our individual modicum of the expense. Captain Bull accordingly despatched a steward pro tem., to ring the bell, and request " all passengers who had'nt paid their pas- sage to step up to the captain's office and do the same." The interlopers seemed ready enough to respond, and our treasurer was about taking possession of the office, when he found the commander of the boat already established there, and gracefully receiving the called-for settlements. Having chartered the vessel, we certainly considered ourselves enti- tled to the extra passage money, but no chain of reasoning could convince the master of the justice of our claim. He merely pointed to Wilmington, and hinted his willingness to take us back, if we repented our bargain. Our corporate invincibility was in that instance-yet in that alone-insuf- ficient. Approaching Smithville, we were delighted to see the Charleston steamer lying at the wharf, yet, in the absence of all sign of life, we feared that she had put in there disabled. Happily, it was not so; she had just arrived, and was about proceeding with her passengers to Wilmington. Captain Bull suddenly recollected that he had received instructions from the Wilmington agency to request the steamer, should he meet her, to send her passengers up in the "Cotton Plant," and return at once to Charleston with our corps. This plan our captain, repairing on board, instantly commu- nicated to the steamer's commander. The commander agreed to the proposal-his passengers exchanged decks with us,   THE TRAVELLERS& CLUB,       221 and we slept on board the Gov. Dudley that night, and at day-break resumed our voyage. The captain of the Dudley repaid our expenses in the charter of the Cotton Plant, and in due tinie landed us safely in Charleston. At Charleston, our party decreased considerably. At Augusta, again we bade a hearty farewell to others, and by the time we reached Mobile none were left, save Captain Bull and I alone. Here the captain was to sojourn a few days, while I was necessitated to proceed instantly to the Crescent City. We, therefore, spent a merry night, pledged all the absent members of our company, and acknowledged that we had never had a journey more replete with little annoyances, and yet more fruitful in pleasurable incident.. "But, my friends," added Mr. Ramble, as the members were about to comment upon his narrative, ' thereby hangs a tale, a little sparkle of romance in real life, which it may amuse you to hear. By a chain of incidents, too tedious to detail, I at length discovered in Captain Bull, a long-lost uncle, and Captain Bull, in your humble servant, recovered his incorrigible nephew, to whom, I told you, he had assigned the superlative degree in the family of the Ramblers. And who should Captain Bull further be, but your worthy presi- dent!--at that time a member of the Travellers' Club, and since, the means of introducing myself into your honoured body." Some- of the members, at this denouement, looked incre- dulously from Ramble to the president, as if afraid that his narrative was, after all, only a-traveller's story. The presi- dent looked solemnly at the bust of the Wandering Jew, and swore that his nephew's story was gospel throughout. After the digression produced by this unexpected recital was over, the original theme of the lights and shades of travel was resumed. 19*   222       THE TRAVELLERSR CLUB. "Mr. Ramble," said a second speaker, " possesses a tempe- rament happily fitted to find, at least, a negative pleasure in the least promising scenes of life, and peculiarly suited to snatch a positive enjoyment from the ever varying sparkles that follow the traveller's path. His disposition is cheerful and active, leading him to see in every one he meets a com- panion and friend, and to relish; with especial zest, the chang- ing scenes of a rover's course. Yet this pleasure is not to be ascribed to his happy temperament alone; on the contrary, it is in itself a bona fide attraction of travel. Novelty is a charm peculiar to travel, and with many its only charm. It is, after all, but one of the tourist's minor pleasures, and, indeed, without the power to appreciate its higher delights, this, of novelty, soon cloys, wearies and disgusts. This is invariably the case, where the gratification of the physical senses is alone sought. Novelties, to sustain their zest, must induce reflection, and upon reflection must be built thought. The tourist, with mind thus enlightened, and heart thus sym- pathizing, will realize the true ends and rewards of travel. He will find his intellect expanded and invigorated; his pre- judices removed ; his knowledge increased; his philosophy strengthened; 'his manners softened, and his heart improved. His intercourse is not, like that of the " dwellers in cities," confined through life to one narrow circle-to one set of scenes, actions, thoughts and feelings, but is with the wide world, the great family of man, all of whom, from pole to pole, the high and mighty, the humble and despised, he shakes familiarly by the hand, as brother greets brother." "In the changes of travel," continued the speaker, " what innumerable magic touches are ever springing up to vibrate the hidden 'chain of thought!' Standing upon those sacred spots where deeds of valour and renown have been achieved- where men of intellect and might have lived and died, how i-f   THE TRAVELLERS' OLUB.       223 vividly is one's past knowledge revived and intensified! how the present, with its realities, melts into air, and the spirit, for the moment disembodied, dwells with fancy and the past! "Thus musing amid classic scenes, the traveller's privilege alone, often have H realized 'how kindred objects kindred thoughts inspire.' Roaming among the beauties of sea-girt Scio, I have fancied the air thrilling with the matchless num- bers of its old blind bard; over the grave of Maro, I have mused with inexpressible delight; upon the hill of Mars, I have listened to the voice of the inspired man, warning the mighty of mighty Athens. There, too, I have seen how Grecian glory has departed. In Palestine, how many grand associations have thrilled my very soul; how my heart has leapt with intense sympathy, while musing amid the wilds of Switzerland, upon the glorious feats of the immortal Tell; while mourning by the crushed battlements of Warsaw, brave Kosciusko's fall and Freedom's shriek; while exulting with the noble Bruce at Bannockburn. How grateful have been my thoughts in the cloisters of imperial Westminster, and upon the bagks of the gentle Avon, to say nought of the myriad spots embalmed in ancient story-Rome, Car- thage, Thermopylae, Marathon, Leuctra, Salamis-names more befitting the scholar's lips than mine!" "My friends," still continued the speaker, "s all these world- renowned scenes I have visited, indeed I have 'the heavens and earth of every country seen,' and think you I consider my days as badly spent--my life unwisely employed? Not so. The past years have yielded abundant joy in their pas- sage, and are now securely invested in funds that are ever giving me liberal and increasing dividends. I mean a fund of pleasing memories, reminiscences and reflections. All the world is my fireside : in every spot I have a local interest. As evening approaches, I take my mandolin and strike its   224       THE TRAVELLERS' CLUB. chords again, beneath the latticed balcony of a dark-eyed maid of legendary Spain, and at the midnight hour, I forget myself in the giddy waltz of France's gay saloons. In fair Italia, I gravely talk of art and vertu. In the city of mosques, I don" my red slippers, cross my legs, and sip my coffee with edifying sang-froid. In China, I taste the national beverage with a commendable air of critical acumen; or if that life be too indolent for my fancy, I creep into the buffalo robes of the northern sledge, and follow the fleet reindeer over the snows of :Lapland and Russia, or, with the flying drome- dary, give chase to the sirocco of the Afiican deserts. O yes! my friends; take my word for it, ' there is no life like the traveller's life.'" The interest that beamecd from the eyes of all the travellers present, while the member was speaking, and the smiling nod they accorded him as he closed, plainly exhibited their entire approbation and sympathy. The subject was not yet allowed to sleep. "Permit me,"  said a third member, " to add a thought to the last gentle- man's just and eloquent remarks. Carried away with the vast intellectual pleasures yielded by' his cherished mode of life, he has failed to allude to its moral and religious influ- ence; to the evidence, immense and incontrovertible, which the tourist daily meets, of the existence of an overruling power;-of the omnipotence of that power, displayed in the sublime of nature;--of the perfect goodness of that eternal mind in the beautiful. In his various rambles, who, among our number present, has not, when gazing in wonder and delight upon nature's charms, been constrained to exclaim- 'these are thy works, Parent of good!' Whose mind and heart, at such times, have not 'In wonder trod, Nature's bright stairway up to Nature's God!' "   THE TRAVELLERS' CLUB.       225 The air of gravity produced in the club, by the remarks of the last two members, gave way to a feeling more congenial to the spirit of Mr. Jonathan Ramble, and his uncle, our worthy president, when Mr. Steam claimed the privilege of rendering his verdict upon the preponderance of light or shade in the rover's life. "Thank you, thank you, gentlemen!" said Mr. Steam, earnestly, and addressing the preceding speakers, " thank you for maintaining the credit of our merry life. There is nothing like it-nothing!   Locomotion! what a word it is-how musical, how  grand! Ship, steamboat, rail-car, Bucephalus, dromedary, donkey, apple-cart-I love them  all! I have a greater respect for my two feet, than any other members of my mortal man. Why, gentlemen! life itself is a grand journey; the seasons ' travel in their course ;' the clouds flit on; the rivers forever run, and old ocean continually ' keeps moving.' Mother earth rolls with crazy speed, and a dozen ways at once. ' Fair Cynthia' journeys round the earth, and all the stars of the bright blue sky are whirling, whirling, whirling, forever and ever-amen!" The members of the club, of course, felt the full force of Mr. Steam's opinion, yet they did not regard it as sufficiently conclusive to warrant them in declining a further expression of sentiment. It was also remembered that thus far, the opinions had been upon the sunny side of the question, and a few were known to be in the club, who were travellers less in heart than habit. Of this recreant class was Mr. Homes, and to him all eyes were mechanically turned. The appeal was understood, and Mr. Homes " had the floor." "' Gentlemen have spoken truly of the joys of travel, and yet will they not permit me to question, whether, after all, their pleasures are not purchased at a sacrifice of what is really of infinitely more worth. Man is a social being-to be sure the   226       THE TRAVELLERS' CLUB. traveller finds companions enough-yes, man is formed for social ties of a dearer and more lasting kind, than seem com- patible with the nature of a rover's career. Is there not a want of real joy at the bottom of his cup? Is there not in his pleasures a heartlessness and a recklessness, that leaves him ever unsatisfied with his lot? Are there not many mo- ments when he turns satiated and wearied from his course, and with a feeling of envy regards the humble shepherd in his 'happy valley?' Does not his vagrant fancy sometimes push aside the jealous curtain, scan the well-ordered draw- ing-room, and with longing heart gaze upon the happy father, whose looks of love are reflected from the liquid eyes of a fairy creature -his adoring wife ; whose caress is battled for by a group of climbing seraphs-his loved babes I? I know not where Mr. Homes's fancy might have led him, had he not at this moment been interrupted by the evident impatience of Mr. Ease, to speak. "All twattle!" exclaimed that gentleman. "Homes! I'm astonished at you! you, a traveller of forty thousand, and within these walls, tfo, to talk such unmitigated nonsense! Ramble sent 'Laura Matilda' to the -- , but it seems she has taken refuge in the bosom of our brother Homes. Your exceptions to the pleasures of travel are all moonshine. You have missed its real miseries. Now, if one could always select his own field, it would do well enough. But really the horrid fare and strange bed-fellows that one often meets, are very trying to the patience-very. If one could carry the Astor' with his baggage, it would answer; but tea-less, but- ter-less, and every-thing-less, breakfasts and suppers are de- cidedly objectionable -decidedly. You may say what you  please about the joys of association, of 'banishing the pre- sent and dwelling on the past,' and similar stuff; I am a traveller of thirty thousand, yet I never met the object I   THE TRAVELLERS' (6LUB.       227 could view with pleasure, while my inward or outward man were uncomfortably situated. Mr. Stephens tells us, that when standing amid the crags of Mount Sinai, during a thunder storm, sublime as was the scene, he would have bar- tered it all for a pair of dry breeches! 'No doubt of it; and yet Mr.,S. is not wanting in soul and enthusiasm. The truth is, the pleasures of travel dwell alone, first, in the anticipa. tion, and last, in the remembrance." "I have one other objection," continued Mr. Ease. "Peo- ple have an erroneous estimate of ramblers. They regard us as a set of poor devils, penniless and decisionless; never satisfied, never knowing what to be at, and eternally roving from post to pillar. That, I have discovered, to my cost. I was once attacked with a sentimental fit, like our friend Homes, and fancied myself ticketed for 'love in a cottage,' with a charming little angel, when her mother, one unlucky day, turned up her nose, and in turning up her nose, turned over all my fondly cherished hopes, with the musty old pro- verb, 'a rolling stone gathels no moss."' As Mr. Ease paused, our worthy president favoured us with a few words, with which I must close these thoughts upon the pleasures and pains of locomotion. "Mr. Ease," remarked the president, " was deservedly frustrated in his amour, for even contemplating a course of life so much at variance with the spirit of the constitution of our glorious club. His other complaints, I must be allowed to say, are unworthy the sacrificing spirit that should ever animate the members of this association.   I presume Mr. Ease only spoke en badinant.  Mr. Homes's sentiments are true and honourable, yet betray a weakness, which I trust is but little prevalent among us. The remarks of the other members are creditable to their judgments and to our cher-   228       THE TRAVELLERS' CLUB. ished club. Remember, gentlemen, summer lasts not all the year; no situation is without its cares, and of course ours- comparatively happy as it is-is not exempt from desagr6- mens. Is it a moment of despondency with you . ' Wait a while, Spring-time cometh; Brothers! say so too!'"    "DON'T BE BASHFUL," "I pity bashful men, who feel the shame Of fancied scorn and undeserved disdain; And bear the marks upon a blushing face, Of needless pain and self-imposed disgrace." WITH me life's sun is sinking; the hoar-frost of age is gathering upon my head, and welcome is its coming-for what has been my past of childhood, youth and manhood, but one dread day of fears; mortifications and sorrows. One cruel infirmity has blasted my years; one " thorn in the flesh" has poisoned all the flattering blossoms of hope, and brought forth as fruits only bitter disappointments. That my fellow mortals may learn wisdom from my experience, and escape the rock upon which I have split, I leave them, in these my confessions, the secret of wny misery. From my "simple tale" they may gather one line of advice, which, if rightly improved, will be to them a richer legacy than a thousand sparkling Inds.  Hear, then, this line-this moral of my story; hear my earnest, my last words-"DON'T BE BASHFUL." "Don't be bashful :"Ah! well do I remember the first time that my mother whispered those words in my ear. It was on the occasion of a grand party at our mansion. A prize had been offered to the victor in a game of elocution between my playmate, Alphonse D'Effronterie, and myself. Many were present, not only of my seniors, but of those of 20   230       "DONUT BE BASHFUL.? my own age, and a goodly share-perhaps an unusual share- of approbativeness, made me particularly desirous to con- quer. I had ten times the talents of Alphonsa, and, but for the lack of the necessary courage, victory had unquestionably been mine; but, alas! my constitutional timidity overwhelmed me. I hesitated, stammeredi forgot my part, and with deep shame-excessively painful even at that early age-fled to my mother, buried my burning forehead in her lap, and wept bitterly, while D'Effroiterie, with an undaunted brow, boldly bore away the prize. This was the earliest palpable display of a disposition which has proved the bane of my life, and the destroyer of many fond hopes. My parents stood well in the world, from high birth, distinguished merit, and great wealth. I was their heir and only childi and, of course, their idolized pet. Many and ambitious were the hopes grounded upon my suc- cess in life: lofty was my prescribed destiny. My horoscope seemed to warrant these anticipations, and for a few years its presages were no less true than flattering. Time, however, quickly told that the conjunctions of the stars, if voiceful at all, spoke like other auguries-by contraries. The cardinal trait of my disposition, as I have said, began early to devel- ope itself in the character of an extreme mauvaise honte-an excessive bashful timidity, approaching very nea/ly, if not actually reaching, positive fear. It crushed, effectually, all the brilliant air-castles my friends had elected. It has been to me as the cursed load of old Sinbad-the stone of Sisy- phus-the punishment of the Danaides-the " body of this death" of St. Paul--the misfortune, the blight of my life. To rid myself of this timidity, I have essayed every means: I have journeyed far and near; I have forced myself into the bustling world; but in vain, for like an incubus it has ever and unceasingly followed me.   z sc DON T BE BASHFUL.'       231 Alphonse and myself were school-mates, and many a whDiping did I receive, simply because, when, with his usual audacity he shifted the fault upon my shoulders, I had not courage to open my lips in my defence before the assembled school, choosing to suffer in sullen silence, or rather, compel- led to do so, for it was no matter of choice. The corporeal suffering was the least evil result of my diffidence in this case. Fromr my silence was reasonably argued not only the fullest guilt, but an unlovely stubbornness and obstinacy of spirit-an inference, how widely at variance with the truth! In college we were again compatriots. Here D'Effronterie still indulged, unrestrained, his reckless pleasure, at my ex- pense. But these are trifling matters compared with graver incidents which I have to recount. I only mention them, as they evidence the fatal disposition which in after and higher periods of life effected my ruin. I studied industriously and successfully, for my passion for knowledge, and my ambition for its honours, were intense, while my mental powers were full ard vigorous. In the recitation-room, however, my ap- plication availed me little, for I was often embarrassed, brow- beaten, and, in consequence, surpassed by those who pos- sessed not one tithe of my ability, yet had at command an abundance of what has ever been to me the great desidera- tum-confidence. My ill success at such times was ascribed to dullness and ionorance, as I studiously hid the real cause as far as possible, willing that any other reason, however ignoble, should be assigned.  D'Effronterie, alone, knew me, and the knowledge he mercilessly turned to his own advantage. Why did he always stand first in his class, when, at the same time, like Crichton, he was never seen engaged in the toil of study, but was ever with his horses, his dogs, his, pleasures?  Why did he thus gain the reputation of a mind so superior in strength to the mass, that what required in   232       "A DON7T BE BASHFUL." others a Herculean effort to master, asked from him but a moment's attention? Why had he thus, without effort, the credit of acquirements, which I, with all my midnight toils and real merit, failed to gain Why, indeed? but that what I sowed, he reaped; that the problemls and themes which I laboured to perfect and embellish, he unblushingly elbowed before the public as his own. And why did I thus supinely become his slave? only that I feared he would else expose me to circumstances in which my hateful bashfulness would be betrayed, and myself made ridiculous. Though thus prevented from distinguishing myself on the rostrum, or by personal public exhibition, one way was yet left me by which I might show the world my strength. In the solitude of my chamber, with no eye to daunt me, I could pour out my whole soul without reserve, and with a force, fancy, flow and grace, of which few imagined me capable.- Perhaps my power in writing was the greater, in that I was excluded from other channels of communion with the world, as the loss of one or more of our senses gives exquisite acute- ness to others. In composition, then, I for a time exerted myself, and the result was exhibited in a rapidly growing reputation. But this gave birth to its own difficulties, as it drew me into a notice repulsive to my shrinking tempera- ment. The hesitation with which I received such tributary attention, was in such ill alliance with the ease of my writings, that many even questioned their genuineness. I determined, however, to struggle hard with the demon within me, and to bear patiently the pain of the, effort. As the season approach- ed in which our four years' communion was to end, and we enter our several barques for the voyage of life, great was the struggle for the valedictory honour, and I was at the head of the competitors. To me it was tacitly alssigned, and rightly, for I became the victor. Then, I thought that with a strong   DON'T BE BASHF'UL I      233 effort I would redeem all past weaknesses. But alas! as the day approached, my spirit faltered; to stand up before assem- bled thousands, the cynosure of all eyes, was as horrible to me as was the official summons to the bar of the House of Lords to the shrinking Cowper. The mere thought became insupportable-my resolution sank, and on the eve of com- mencement, when all the world was anticipating my triumph, I declined the honour, and shut the portal of "Fame's proud temple" in my own face. D'Effronterie took my place and won general applause, swhile the public wondered at my con- duct, and my friends cursed my egregious folly. Thus did my unhappy timidity wither all my hopes at the very threshold of life, which was the more to be deplored, as my parents died soon after, and much of my patrimony pass- ing into other hands, I was compelled to exertion for the means of subsistence. Once more I was determined to con- quer myself; and partly that my friends thought my talents the best suited to it, and as it appeared to me the mine in which I should most readily gain that coveted gem-brass- I embarked in the profession of the law. In the office of an eminent attorney I applied myself dili- gently, and con amore to my new study, so that I soon mas- tered its difficulties, and made such rapid advancement, as to win general esteem, but more particularly the approving notice of my distinguished mentor. As I increased my knowledge, he flattered me by frequently soliciting my counsel in compli- cated cases, and sometimes hinting a design of tendering me an association with him in business. Such indeed was my success, that I was soon qualified to take my place at the bar, and after the usual examination, which I managed to pass tolerably well, I was duly admitted. Previous to this period, however, new feelings and hopes entered my heart. I have said that I was a favourite with my instructor; so much so, 20*   234        "DON T BE BASHFUL,? that I possessed his unreserved confidence, professionally, and his warmest friendship, personally. In his domestic circle I was, first, an invited and welcome guest-afterwards, a con- stant and intimate one. It was at this time that I first expe. rienced the emotions of the grand passion--love; and surely, Fanny Alford, my tutor's matchless daughter, would have been abundant apology, even from hearts of sterner mould than mine, for yielding to the sway of the blind tyrant.-- Fanny was-but why need I describe her 2 It is unnecessary, indeed irrelevant to my purpose. Let the reader imagine her possessed of all the beauties and virtues with which a dream- ing enthusiast is wont to invest his heart's ideal. Let him suppose the effect of frequent intercourse with such a being upon one peculiarly susceptible to the power of female charms, and he will behold me completely won by the beauty, mental and physical, the winning manner and gaitH6 de cceur of Fanny Alford. Though physically unable to win admiration in a crowd, in a tte-a-tWte I felt at-home, could freely exert my powers, and always with eminent success. In my inter- course with Fanny I failed not to bestir myself to win her love, and I had sufficient reason to think myself triumphant. Need I tell the sequel-the hopes I cherished, the confession I gathered courage to stammer forth, her half granted assent, the virtual approbation of her father, the congratulations of the world?  Need I tell the new and powerful incentives I felt, to struggle for a name and place in the world, and the thousand visions of happiness I fancied before me? In this position of affairs, and while thirsting for an occasion to dis- tinguish myself, how happy was I, when, soon after my ad- mission to practice, Mr. Alford's influence procured me a case of great importance and success, which would undoubtedly be a  sure stepping-stone to after fame. Much was I envied, nor did I fail in congratulating myself, or in valiantly resolving to   "DON'T BE BASHFUL.?       235 spare no effort essential to success. Having of late been thrown but little in circumstances to excite my usual timidity, I seldom thought, or at least had but slight fear of its con- sequences in my prospective efforts, until I recollected that my old associate, D'Effronterie, who happened to be my op- ponent in the coming case, was well aware of my weakness. This thought, as the day of trial approached, had a powerful influence in reviving my slumbering infirmity, until the pros- pect before me became as intensely painful as would death itself, and I repented the moment in which I had ventured with such temerity upon public life. Every thing, though, was at stake, and it was too late to recede. Mr. Alford, I knew, was a man of undaunted courage, with an utter con- tempt for fearful or hesitatingspirits. Fanny too, in this regard, was not unlike her father, and with their knowledge of my former life, I was aware that the least diffidence would be rightly interpreted, and would lower, if not destroy me in their esteem. The eventful day arrived. The court-room was crowded by those attracted by the interest of the case, and the novelty of the d&but of two neophytes of whom report spoke so well. When called upon to open the case, I was surprised at my own success, and continued with increasing confidence, until, as I reached the most thrilling part of my subject, D'Effron- terie glanced at me with a sneering smile, and drawing near, whispered in my  ear, yet in a tone audible to the court,- "don't be bashful!"  Had the last message of Gabriel, in his position upon sea and upon land, fallen upon my ear, it could not have been more startling or more fatal. In one moment, all my past failures rushed to mind, with their accu- mulated mass of mortification and shame. Every eye seemed glued upon me in pity or scorn. All further effort was idle. I effectually stumbled and fell. I recollect little else than a   236        t DON'T BE BASHFUL?6 general hiss, which followed me as I rushed half maddened from the court to my lodgings. Here I forever abandoned the law, and here ended my acquaintance with Mr. Alford and my first love, Fanny; for, as I feared, he despised me for my weakness, and duly apprised me by note of his sentiments, together with his own and his daughter's disinclination to any further intercourse with one who possessed so little manliness of character. Suffering under a sense of wrong, as well as of shame, I made no effort to regain their favour, but used all haste in escaping, forever, from the city and its associations. After the fatal termination of my hopes in , it occurred to me that in the profession of medicine I should be but very little exposed to circumstances which would betray my cursed bashfulness. To this pursuit, I therefore bent my energies, and settling in a town remote from the scene of my late .dis- aster, I soon obtained a flourishing practice.' The people among whom I had fallen were, with rare exceptions, mem- bers of the church. Upon the subject of religion I had oft- times dwelt, and was predisposed to accept its teachings, having been educated in a strict and reverential observance of Christian rites and belief. It only needed the example and influence at this time around me to fill the already sinking scale. I accordingly became a devoted, and I trust sincere, member of their religious body. This I record only inasmuch as it influenced subsequent incidents in my experience. Among the leading members of the church was 'Deacon Moulton, a complete realization of my ideal of a deacon of romance, exhibiting a figure, whose every motion, and a countenance whose every feature, was dripping with sanctity. In the church, his stern and regular observance of duty, won him influence; and in the world, his upright and industrious devotion to his business, with the thrift which followed, gained him respect. It is, however, with the deacon's daughter that    c; DON T BE BASHFUL.?       237 I have to do, rather than himself. Marie Moulton was a sweet girl; then entering her sixteenth year. Very different was she from Fanny Alford; no less lovely than she, yet her beauty was of another style. Instead of Fanny's careless, joyous expression, her air was one of thoughtful pensiveness. For Fanny's vivacity, self-possessed and even bold address, Marie's manner was timid and retiring, almost to a fault; and again, instead of the activity, restlessness and earnestness which marked Fanny's disposition, Marie was strongly charac- terized by a quietness and evenness of soul, which to the careless observer might have seemed to argue a lifeless, au- tomaton insensibility. It needed but a very slight acquaint- ance, though, to detect beneath this calm surface a current, deep and strong; a calm enthusiasm, the more fanciful in its picturings, and the more resolute in its plans, as she locked her feelings in her own bosom, jealously hiding them from the eye of a world, whose cold approval or sneering ridicule, might have soon destroyed them and dried up the source from whence they sprung. Beneath an outward semblance gentle as the pet dove, she hid a heart intense in its emotions as the spirit of the maelstrom. Her religious trust, perhaps, aided her in this strong and perfect control, for Marie was truly pious, and her piety was not stained by one shadow of bigo- try. In this respect herfather was widely different; he had his own prescribed course of conduct and rule of duty, and for those whose opinion at all varied from his own, he had not one spark of tolerance. When Marie won my heart and returned my preference with her own inestimable affection, of course Deacon Moulton felt himself privileged to- exert some influence and authority over me. This conceived right he did not fail to exercise, and in him who would gain his daughter's hand, nothing was so absolutely requisite as a congeniality of religious sentiment with himself. He was a leading man in   238       It DONIT BE BASHFUL.? the church, and he expected me to follow his example in every good word and work. This it was my highest pleasure to do, in my own quiet unobserved way, but unfortunately for me, there was little of the unobtrusive in Deacon Moulton's religion. It was only when he was seen of men that he could afford to give time and thoughts to heaven. He was always ready when long prayers and exhortations were required, and so he expected me to be. These public exercises, however, I bergan to dread when I had regularly to look for them. My old diffidence returned upon me, ih full force, and the prospect of being called upon to take part in the exercises of the meet- ings I was required to attend, became absolutely painful. At first I refused my aid. This course gave such deep offence to Deacon M., that I tried another. I now absented myself from the prayer-meetings altogether, and went late to the Sabbath-school, to avoid being called upon to make the usual openings by reading, prayer, etc. My reason, as I have before said, for this shrinking from public exposure, I studious- ly concealed, willing that any other cause whatever than the true one should be assigned. And in this instance, a reason was premised, which proved a death-blow to my dawning hopes. Deacon Moulton could attribute my conduct to no- thing else than a coldness in the cause, perhaps a positive backsliding and denial of my profession. Than this. no cha- racter was more hateful in his sight. I found my visits at his house less and less welcome, until at last he virtually bade me resign all hopes of possessing his daughter. The commu- nity too doubted me, my practice fell off, and finding myself generally shunned, I was compelled to abandon the place. This I could not do without Marie. I was well aware that she did not share her father's prejudice, and that her love for me would endure great sacrifice. I succeeded in obtaining several private interviews, and finally, with difficulty, per-   ; DONT'T BE BASHFUL.?       239 suaded her to escape with me from the unjust prejudice and rule of her stern father. But alas! when on the very point of success, our project failed. We were discovered. So great was the public horror of my ungodly proceeding, that I was compelled to make a hasty retreat, while Marie, for penance for her fault, was subjected to the harshest treatment and the most rigorous vigilance. All after effort to see her proved fruitless, and a few weeks subsequently I was maddened at hearing, that her disappointment, and the unkind treatment of her father, had crushed her gentle spirit, produced a violent illness, and ended in her death. Thus again were the brightest visions blasted by my hateful folly. My disruption with Fanny Alford, I soon learned to forget, but the remembrance of the hapless-Marie has ever since brought with it a pang. Neither misfortune, however, proved fatal to my peace, as after occurrences showed that sincere as I fancied my love, I had not yet bestowed my heart in that utter unreservedness and intense depth of devotion of which it was capable. Thus to love, however, was still my fate. A third and last scene of " light and shadow" was in reserve for i;.e. The recital of this act will close my hapless confessions, and relieve the wearied patience of the reader. It was two years after the death of Marie that I found my- self a guest at a fashionable watering place. I had then resigned all active life, as by an unexpected rise in the value of the stocks still in my possession, my means became again sufficient for my wants. Fearful still of exposing myself to painful mortifications, I mingled but little with the crowd, confining  my intercourse to two or three acquaintances, in whom I soon detected a congeniality of soul with my own. To the side of one of these few friends I soon found myself insensibly and irresistibly drawn. I discovered that she read my secret, and  loved me for my misfortune. Here, at last,   240 .      u DON'T BE BASHFUL.? was the heart for which I had so long sighed. I loved her devotedly, madly. She returned my affection. Days and weeks flew by, and never was I so happy, even in my wildest dreams; never before had life seemed worth enjoying; never indeed had I before lived. So it might, perhaps, ever have been, but that, in a luckless hour, my evil genius, D'Effron- terie, appeared on the stage. He was the magician whose wand summoned the evil spirit, always productive of my utter confusion. My readers have noted his influence in my dis- comfiture. in the profession in which we both at the same time embarked. -His brazen spirit promised good success in that profession, and such it soon yielded him. What par- ticular motive led him to  I never knew, sufficient for my purpose, that he was there. With the most consummate impudence he reclaimed my acquaintance, and when I refer- red coldly to the last passage between us, he affected a well- executed astonishment at my taking offence at his conduct, alleging it to have only sprung from a little innocent humour on his part, without any possible conception of its producing ill effects. Such was his power over me, that I was involun- tarily necessitated to admit his society. Louise Lawton, the object of my last and lasting love, I shall not pause to describe; hastening to the close of my eventful history. D'Effronterie saw the position of matters at a glance, and at the same instant formed a malicious resolve to thwart our hopes. Had I a bouquet to-offer to Louise-- before I was aware of his approach he was behind me, taking the gift with the most entire sang froid, and placing me under eternal obligations by executing my errand, while he despatch- ed me on a wild goose chase elsewhere! These manoeuvres he managed in such a way that I could not take offence, while, at the same time, I was made supremely ridiculous, and a general laugh raised at my expense.   "DON'T BE BASHFUL.?        241 Did I attempt to utter a pretty sentiment, D'Effronterie was sure to spoil it; by his officious proffers of assistance, as he termed it, in explaining my meaning, or completing my figure. In this way, I was often confused in the middle of a sentence, exposed to shame, and made miserable for the rest of the day. Indeed, I was completely his butt. The merest trifle he could turn to my annoyance, without appearing to have had any such design. So perfectly was he master of himself and his art, that I was sometimes, myself, half forced to believe him influenced by an overflow of good will, rather than a wilful disregard of the feelings of others. This kind- ness was officious, to be sure, spoiling what it essayed to better --still kindness, however mistaken, he made it appear, and such the world believed it. This being the case, there was, of course, no appeal. Was I engaged to dance with Louise-- as I timidly advanced to' proffer my  arm, D'Effronterie's seemed by some magic to be already there, and accepted be- fore she was aware that he was present. Then followed a contention as to whose set it really was. He looked incredu- lous when I asserted my right, and when I was sustained by the verdict of Louise herself, he still appealed, vowing laugh- ingly that I was dreaming, and that Louise, with her multitude of slaves, could not by any possibility be supposed capable of recollecting which of them she was pledged to favour.  He himself, in her necessity:, would fill. the important office of memory for her. These disputes he would keep up, until the impatience of the dancers making further parlance impossible, he  would lead his captive hastily to the set, leaving me to pick up some one else, or amuse myself by looking on. Did I tender my  assistance in putting on Louise's shawl- scarcely had I raised it, when it was lifted, as by the breeze, in D'Effronterie's hands, and at the same instant most gal- lantly wrapped around her. Then he would accompany her 21   242       "DON'T BE BASHFUL. home, and if told that she was' otherwise engaged, would either wilfully misunderstand her, swear that I was sighing to be elsewhere, or that he had made a vow to be her escort on that particular occasion, or else complain of her partiality to others and cruelty to him, and insist upon her doing penance for such unspeakable crimes by permitting his company. There was always such extreme good humour, such inimitable pleasantry, such a winning smile upon his handsome features in these mandeuvres, that neither Louise nor others could be offended, although they felt that they ought to be, and some- times did try to summons a frown. Occasionally, when he saw me really angry, he made a matchless affectation of sor- row, and humbly begged my forgiveness. In this way he rendered my situation ten times more awkward than before. Oh! if I had my life to live over, and was permitted from earth's treasures to- select one gift, my choice should be D'Effron terie's confidence! Were Jove again to send forth, as in the days of Addison, his permission to all men to cast down their -affliction, and take in exchange some other from the rejected pile, I would-notwithstanding the little satisfaction that followed the privilege upon the occasion in question- gladly renounce my hateful bashfulness and accept any evil in; lieu thereof. Pandora's box wide open, and Fancy's micro- scope before it, could not deter me! At this time, the engagement between Louise and myself was only tacit; and fearful of the consequences of D'Effron- terie's wiles, I resolved to bring matters to a full point. A sylvan party was, about this period, projected, and, remem- bering my mother's admonition-"Don't be bashful," I de- termined to avail myself of the occasion for the desired eclaircissement. The looked-for day arrived, and a more lovely one, summer never boasted. The balmy air, and all the appareling of     (4 DON'T BE BASHFUL.'?      243 nature, seemned to invite a humour of dreamy speculation and romantic sentiment. Every thing around me appeared to lead to the confession burning upon my lips. I had wan- dered with Louise far from the throng, and in a few moments the intended words would have met her ear, when what apparition should startle me, but the figure of D'Effronterie! Accompanying him was a young lady, whom he playfully resigned to me as he approached, exclaiming, "Well met, my dear fellow! here, Miss Murdock and I have quarrelled, yet I cannot leave her here to find -her way back alone. You see how awkwardly we are situated-doomed to each other's society, when both are ready to bite if opportunity served. I know you will relieve me, and protect her home; never mind Miss Louise, I'll take her off your hands-besides, I have some news for her, which you know I promised you to communicate." What could I do but submit to the exchange of partners- which exchange, indeed, D'Effronterie had already effected. I felt too much embarrassed to object, though Miss Murdock was a companion not particularly welcome. She was a cousin of D'Effronterie's, and much resembling him in boldness of character. Like him, she would not hesitate at means to accomplish a desired end. She had somehow fancied me a fitting Leander for her, and had used efforts to convert me to her way of thinking. The world gave some credit to a report of my regard for her, and Louise, I knew, had been annoyed by such whispers. As D'Effronterie passed on with Louise, he called to me, with a mysterious air, to "make the best of my time." I did not notice the remark at the mo- ment, as my thoughts were upon other matters. "Shall we never understand each other?"I murmured, forgetting that I was not alone. "Further confession is unnecessary, 'dear sir; you have   244       "DON'T BE BASHFUL." already told enough,'" whispered Miss Murdock, affection- ately. "Enough!"I echoed, in surprise. "Have you detected my attachment, then, Miss Murdock?" "That was not difficult," she answered; "all the world ]have observed it long ago. Mr. D'Effronterie, too, has told me all. I have waited for the confession from your own lips, but aware of your natural diffidence, I determined-I hope not too boldly-to assure you of my approbation of your suit, and even to confess that your love is returned." "Thank you, for those words, my dear Miss Murdock," I exclaimed, overjoyed at the communication, and supposing it to refer to Louise. At the same time, as an additional ex- pression of my thanks, I lifted her hand to my lips. D'Ef- fronterie, who had managed to follow us closely, was at this instant within hearing, and, together with his companion, overheard my exclamation, and witnessed the action which followed. This I saw at once, when looking round I observed their proximity, and the surprise depicted in Louise's counte- nance, and D'Effronterie's sinister smile. Before I eould execute my purpose of addressing them, they were lost in another of the labyrinthine paths amid which our pic-nic was held. Miss Murdock, also, seemed impatient to proceed. Her brother, a man with as much impudence, yet less polish than D'Effronterie, soon joined us. She whispered a few words to him, whereupon he offered me his hearty congratu- lations upon my choice of a wife. We quickly reached their residence, and my refusal to enter was regarded with such horror, that I withdrew it. As the members of the family severally entered, I was surprised to receive congratulations from each, and still more puzzled that Miss Murdock shared in the good wishes. What interest she had in the matter was indeed a riddle. The revels of the day were to end with   "DON'T BE BASIIFUL.       245 a ball, but as Gome hours yet intervened, the Misses Murdock sallied forth on a shopping excursion, and nothing would do but H must be exhibited at their side. In each place, the young ladies had some mysterious intelligence to communi- cate, which was generally followed by offered congratulations to me, upon my anticipated change of life. Wondering at the singular wisdom of the public, yet hoping soon to give them real cause for their good wishes, I received themn all in good part, never denying my right to them. I was half engaged'to attend Louise to the ball, but as D'Effronterie dropped in at the Murdock's, and left word for nie that she had placed herself under his charge for the evening, I gave way to a little feeling of pique, and was easily persuaded to accompany the Misses Murdock. Not only had I their soci- ety on the way, but during the whole evening I was their prisoner. Every body, too, appeared to expect no less, and studiously kept aloof from me. Louise was there, but in the few efforts I made to meet her, I found that she carefully shunned me.   Having no better employment, then, I gave myself up to the amusement of the Misses Murdock, still thinking of Louise, and resolving to seek an explanation with her in the- morning. When, upon the following day, I called at their hotel to execute this purpose, what was my surprise to learn that they had left the place! actually departed before the dawn, in the public cars, without leaving, any clue to their ultimate destination.  I was bewildered, and not until a servant brought me down a note, left for me by my Louise, did the truth .break upon me. Then, indeed, it was plain and painful enough.   Her missive was brief. Its tone was sad, yet without reproach. She had learned, she wrote, from D'Ef- fronterie, of my engagement to Miss Murdock, yet would not believe the story, until she saw and heard it confirmed by my 2. . 1    246      . "DON T BE BASHFUL.?' own actions and words. She closed, by praying for my hap- piness and bidding me a last adieu. I saw all in an instant, the design of D'Effr'onteirie and his cousins to take advantage of my diffidence to entrap me into an union with their family, and the artful manner in which they had committed me with themselves and the public. I now read the secret of the congratulations showered so thickly upon me; of the communication D'Effronterie said he had promised me to make to Louise; and of the pertinacity with which she avoided me the previous evening. My hesitation at our last interview, when upon the point of offering her my vows, she now, most probably, put down to my dislike to tell her the cruel tale that D'Effronterie had related. All these thoughts were confirmed, when, upon reaching my lodgings, I met Miss Murdock's brother, and a full explanation ensued. ,-Murdock affected astonishment when I denied any engage- ment to his sister. He said I had gone too far to retreat, and insisted upon my fulfilling what he was pleased to style my promises. D'Effronterie was present, and made strong efforts to intimidate me. But they had relied too much upon their influence, Louise out of the question, I might, perhaps, have yielded to their toils, but now so bitter was my disappointment, that my soul was roused, and, for the time, all trace of my besetting weakness had vanished. I scorned their threats, and waiting only to write to my agent touching the management of my affairs, I fled the place, in fruitless search for Louise. Fruitless, indeed, for months and even years passed, and with all my vigilance not a trace could I find of her. At length, wearied of life and broken down with disap- pointment and sorrow, I was one day brooding in my solitary chamber, in the city of , when a note was put-into my b hands, written in the familiar hand of Louise's mother. She   DON'T BE BASHFUL.   "    247 had observed and recognized me in the street that morning, and now implored my immediate presence at her residence. With what eagerness I read the request and hastened to reply! Yet in the style and tone of the note, was something that whispered sad forebodings. I trembled as the same roof again sheltered Louise and myself. Mrs. Lawton greeted me kindly, but there was that in her manner and her grief-worn countenance which excited my worst fears. I dared not ask after Louise. Her mother spoke not of the interval since our last meeting, but, beckoning me to follow, noiselessly entered a darkened room, from all its chill appointments, too evi- dently the chamber of the sick. Upon that lonely couch- alas! that dying couch, was my Louise, now but the shadow of her former self. ' As I approached, she recognized me, silently pressing my hand. Then I gave vent to my over- charged emotions-told her of the suffering I had endured for her sake-the deception of which we had both been the dupes, and my undeviating constancy. As I spoke, a bright smile of holy content and happiness illumined her angel face, and casting a farewell glance upon her mother and my- self, her gentle spirit passed to the God who gave it. Need the reader be told of the fatal day and cause that blighted that young and trusting heart, until it drooped and withered from the earth? I have-but a word of sequel. The Murdocks, after my abrupt departure from -- , instituted legal measures against me for alleged breach of contract, and as I entered no defence, not having the courage to appear again in court, after my previous ignoble failure, large damages were recovered, which essentially impaired my little fortune. The bold attempt of D'Effronterie and his friends to i'm- pose upon my diffident nature, as I afterwards learned, sprung   248     -   DON T BE BASHFUL." from some previous passages between Miss M. and D'Effion- terie. As the attempt failed, the lady's brother compelled him to wed her himself. These brothers afterwards quar- relled, and young Murdock fell in a duel by D'Effronterie's hand. What further happened to the parties I know not. Mrs. Lawton, in a short time, followed Louise to the grave, while I have since existed, - patiently awaiting the common release to all earth's sufferers. I have been long since cured of my fatal weakness, but oh! how immense the cost of that cure! Weigh it, leader. Reflect upon my hapless life, and be what you will, but for heaven's sake "DON'T BE BASHFUL."  .    ONE GOOD TURN DESERVES ANOTHER. THE following story, although .detracting from the pro- verbially exalted reputation of Carolina for generous hospital- ity, is yet most minutely veritable. Happily it is .only an "exception," which, it is said, instead of destroying, estab- lishes the " rule." The incident actually occurred, and was related to me by a gentleman of veracity, though in a manner far above my own indifferent powers of narration. The night was dark--so dark, that as a thunder peal rang through the heavens, it was most beautifully said by a young gentleman of a poetical turn of mind, to have been caused by Erebus, who, delighted out of all propriety at the perfection of his ebony progeny, greeted it, as he left it to hold undis- puted sway over the coming hours, with a vehement kiss. But whether Erebus's feelings were so easily carried away or not, the night really was dark, and the storm-spirit ruled despotically. No mortal, as he looked abroad, could help praying that all poor wights might be secured from its relentless fury. One, however, there was, who did not cherish such kindly emotions. Colonel Beall was a dweller in a stately mansion, in the " low country " of the chivalrous Palmetto State. All around him savoured strongly of comfort, with something to spare. No humbler residents came between the wind and the colonel's nobility, for many miles around. He made, as   250    ONE GOOD TURN DESERVES ANOTHER. he rode over his demesne, the same proud and kingly reflection that Mr. Crusoe did, upon his lonely isle, but it was in a humour of self-gratulation, rather than in the spirit, craving the sympathy and participation of others, in which poor Robinson soliloquized. The night, we have said, was dark-and so, also, was the hospitable colonel's brow, when, just as he had finished his cigar, and was retiring to rest, an ominous rap at the door smote upon his ear. A moment subsequent a servant enter- ed, bearing the prayer of a traveller, for food and shelter for the night. "Tell him," returned Colonel Beall, and. his dark brow darkened, "that I don't keep tavern, and he can't stay here." "If you please, sir," said the servant, deprecatingly, " he says that he is a stranger in these parts, that he has lost his way, that the night is dark, and he is tired, wet and hungry." "Tell him, I say," interrupted the colonel peremptorily, "that he cannot stay here." The boy quickly returned, renewing the entreaty of the traveller for accommodation, and his wish that the colonel would at least condescend to step to the door. Beall, with an impatient and angry action, pushed his feet farther into his slippers, and shuffled to the piazza. "What did my servant say to you . " he asked in a crabbed voice. "Did he not tell you that I do not keep tavern; en- tertainment for neither man nor horse, and that you cannot remain here?" "He certainly did," returned the tourist, respectfully doffing his beaver, " but I thought it was a mistake. I could not be- lieve that in so dreary and wild a night as this, and in my peculiar circumstances, as a stranger-wet, hungry and wea- ried-that you would refuse me admittance as you would a dog."   ONE GOOD TURN DESERVES ANOTHER.     251 "I tell you, sir," said the imperturbable Beall, "that I do not and will not take in travellers." "But, sir--my necessities are pressing; my -- " "Sir," replied the colonel, " one word is as good as a thou-  sand. I tell you my house is not a tavern." "But, sir," again interposed the stranger, "I cannot be re- fused; the night is too dark and dangerous, and myself and l horse too fatigued to journey farther. Neither do I know anything of the country or road. Give us, at least, a shelter; common humanity may claim as much." "I can't help it, sir," replied Beall, as he gradually closed the door in the supplicant's face. "There is a house about four miles from here ; if you take the left at the mill, and look out for the ford-for it's deep and boggy--then at the top of the hill take down the fence into a lane, and about three miles from here, turn into a blind path to the right." With frigid and oppressive politeness, the stranger bowed low and expressed his earnest thanks and exalted consideration of the gentleman's kindness, and a hope that time and oppor- tunity would enable him to reciprocate. We said that the colonel was the only dweller in the neighbourhood. There was one other, a very poor man, as the benighted tourist learned upon inquiry of Colonel Beall's servant. "He is a mighty poor white man, massa," said the boy, "mighty poor." "But, my boy, don't you think he can give me a shelter, a fire, some hoe-cake, and a dry plank to sleep on il"  "Why yes, massa, he worse off den de niggers, but I reck- on he can do dat ere." "Well, that is more than I can get here; so you, Ben, or whatever your name is, just show me the way, and here's a quarter for you."   252    ONE GOOD TURN DESERVES ANOTHER. "It's mighty bad night , massa, and I hate to go out pow- erful, but I'se dreadful sorry for you, and I s'pose I'll go." And so, go they did. The family were all asleep, but in- stead of murmuring at the intrusion, they arose with alacrity, and Samaritan-like, welcomed the stranger, built a fire, pre- pared an humble supper, and gave him a pallet upon which to sleep. And thus our traveller passed the night. Our scene abruptly changes. The low-lands of the State are deserted for its hill-region. The wrinkles upon the brow of kind mother Yarth, have been deepened by a whole year's suns and snows. Colonel Beall, a gentleman renowned in the beau monde for his high breeding, proud descent, great wealth, and gen- erous and hospitable soul, left the heated temperature of his own home for a summer campaign among the mountains and water-falls. The colonel, with his wife and daughters, enjoyed a most' excellent appetite at the several points in Georgia, of Tallu- lah, Toccoa and Eastatoia, and in their own State, of Table Mountain, White Water, Slicking and Caesar's Head. At the loveliness and sublimity of each and all of these scenes, Col. Beall, with his wife and daughters, exclaimed, "Charm- ing! O, 'tis delightful!" whenever any one of sufficient im- portance was near enough to hear and note the display of emotion. At length, Colonel Beall ordered his horses' heads turned homewards, but before much distance was accomplished, an accident happened to the carriage, and a long detention was before them. Fortunately, upon an eminence, and about a mile from the scene of disaster, was a mansion, evidently the abode of a gentleman of means and taste. Thither the colonel quickly despatched a negro to solicit aid in their dilemma.   ONE GOOD TURN DESERVES ANOTHER.     253 "Ay, ay," said Major Peters, when the servant followed his best bow with a deferential announcement of his business to the owner of the mansion--"Colonel Beall, from the low country--ay? Give Major Peters's compliments to your master, and tell him my carriage shall be down directly to bring his family to my house, and that I will send my ser- vants to look after his." This courtesy the boy hastened to convey to the colonel, but scarcely had he done so before Major Peters was himself upon the ground, lamenting their loss, and cordially proffer- ing the use of his house, his purse and his time. Col. Beall and his family were, therefore, soon at home, in the drawing- room of the hospitable major. "Now, my dear," said Peters to Mrs. Peters, before intro- ducing her to his guests--"Now, my dear, this Colonel Beall is a man of some considerable importance, from below; renowned, especially for his hospitality, and I would not be outdone by him; therefored my dear, use every effort-sup- ply the best of every thing, in the best manner-anticipate all their wants-the wants even of the children and servants, while I'll see that no wines are lacking, and that the horses grow fat. By the way, my dear, give the children plenty of fruit and milk---milk particularly, they are very fond of that." Mrs. Peters, always upon hospitable thoughts intent, now bustled about with additional alacrity and smiles. Never did entertainers do their devoir with so much success, and never were guests so delighted. Three days passed before they were enabled to resume their journey, and even then they were pressed to prolong their visit. In the interval, Major Peters had, in person, gone to the neighbouring village, and seen the colonel's carriage repaired, discharging the cost out of his own proper purse. 22   254    ONE GOOD TURN DESERVES ANOTHER. "And now, my dear major," said Col. Beall, when he was about starting, and had exhausted himself in thanks to his open-hearted host--" now, my dear sirl we have been with you, our family, horses, and servants, for several days; please to make your bill sufficiently ample to remunerate you." "My bill, sir! I assure you I have no demand whatever against you." "No demand, Major Peters! but you must have. We have trespassed both upon your time and your purse." ' Indeed, sir, I have no bill whatever." "But, Major Peters, you must have. I cannot leave with- out paying you." "Colonel Beall, when I recall the great debt of gratitude which I owe you, it seems impossible for me ever to make sufficient return." "Debt! gratitude! my dear sir! I never met you before! you are under no obligation to me!" "' Great-very great obligation, Colonel Beall-immeasu- rable obligation. You knew not, most excellent man, when you conferred the favour, that it was any other than a poor wayfarer whom you served." "Major Peters, you speak mysteries! I pray you, sir, explain." "Colonel Beall, as I said before, I have never, for an instant, forgotten your kindness, nor shall I to the hour of my death; and surely, Colonel Beall;' one good turn deserves another,' and besides I do not keep tavern!" f Sir!" "Ah, Col. Beall, I see that you begin to recall the incident, and surely you cannot have quite forgotten the dark and drear December night, when a poor traveller, benighted, half-drowned, and half-starved, sought shelter and food-if only a fodder-loft and a hoe-cake, at your princely mansion, and--was refused!"   ONE GOOD TURN DESERVES ANOTHER.    255 "Surely, Major Peters, you were not that man! you  "And was refused, Col. Beall, as the distressed beggar would hardly have been at the poorest door in the land. Col. Beall, I am not ungrateful, and I tell you again, 'one good turn deserves another,' and for your past kindness to me, you are most heartily welcome to what you have enjoyed under mv roof." Abashed and humbled was Colonel Beall, at these words- and more particularly at the severe reproof conveyed in the cool and chilling politeness, and the ironical thanks of his host. He at length found words to stammer forth an apol- ogy, and a hope that Major Peters could forgive and forget. Major Peters, with cold and lofty courtesy, assured him, that when such a favour as he had received was conferred upon him, and by one in a station where it was so little to be expected, he could never forget it, and as to forgiving, he knew of nothing to forgive-the colonel had deeply obliged him, and, as far as circumstances enabled, he had striven to return the obligation. "But," said Col. Beall, " in the winter, we live in Charles- ton-have a round of parties and gayeties, pleasant to young folks; you have daughters -now, you and your wife bring them with you to town-make my house your home--and let me, in some way, repay your kindness." "You owe me nothing, sir," replied Major Peters, in the same calm tone. "I have only discharged my duty." By this time the colonel's family were in their carriage, and he himself stepping in, sank in his seat, crest-fallen and abashed. As they passed from the door, the major waved them a farewell kiss, and retired. Reader, our tale has a moral. Remember it-andin the same way as did Major Peters, that-" one good turn deserves another."    
         
       
   
