
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Tales of European Life .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7981
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Tales of European life 
            
                 TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE.   ST. CECILIA. PRATO FIORITO, SALVI AND CESARE, AN ADVENTURE IN PRAGUE.   LORING, Publisher. BOSTON.   CHOICE FICTION. Florence Marriat's sucessfidl Novels. -Paper LOVE'S CONFLICT. ..........           .  cts. TOO GOOD FOR HIM  .......... WOMAN AGAINST WOMAN.   ......... FOR EVER AND EVER. ..        ...... THE CONFESSIONS OF GFR ATM. ESTCOURT .  .... NELLY BROOKE:  A Homely Story. . .......  THE GIRLS OF rb:;V':SAM. . ....     ....     7 VERONIQUE. A Romance. ..   . .   ..... .7 Edmund Yates' Novels. BROKEN TO HARNESS. ...........            7 RUNNING THE GAUNTLET.   .........          7 THE FORLORN HOPE  ...........            7 THE ROUA PASS: or, Englishmen in the Highlands ...  7 MAINSTONE'S HOUSEKKE:?iER: A Tale of English Life. ... 7 MOODS, By LOUISA M. ALCOTT. Author of "Lithe Women," . . 7 A LOST LOVE, By ASHFORD OWEsN. A very lovely story ... 7 THE SOPRANO. A Musical Story. By JANE KIINGSFORD. .  7 ADELE -DUBOIS: A Story of the Lovely Miramiohi Valley. ... 7 WAS IT A GHOST? THE MURDERS IN BUSSEY'S WOOD. An extraordinary narrative, . . . . . . . . . .  7i FAIRY TAT.,E8 FOR GROWN FOLKS.... Five Old Friend,...By Miss THACKERAY. 61 PRICE, 50 CENTS EACH. ?AT S OF EtIUOPBAN LIFE, .........          5( VIRGINIA GRATAM, The SPY OF THE GRAND ARMY. . .    5( One of the best War hovels written. TWICE LOST. A Story of Remarkable Power. - . * * . . 6 "ORDS AND LADIES: or, The Challenge. Full of fun. .  5( HUNTED TO DEATH: A Story of Love and Adventure . . . . 6( BBFFLED  B0 IrRFS. A N. Y. Detective Story. .....  6( MARRIED AGAINST REASON. By MRS. ADELHEID SHELTON-'MACKENZIE. 5( A WEEK IN A FRENCH COUNTRY-HOUSE.           { - By MADAME SARTORIS. 6C MEDUSA AND OTHER STORIES. . .  MY TEN-ROD PARM: Orp How I Became a Florist, .   5C - , By Mrs. MARIA GILMAN. FARMP VTG BY INCHES : or, Farming under Glass. .....  ( Uniform with "My Ten-Rod Farm.") Jrs. lrWarren's Populcar Home JManuals. HtOW I MANAGED MY HOUSE ON 200 A YEAR. .  ... .6C COMFORT'FOR SMAtT, INCOMES.  ........        ,5C HOW I MANAGED MY CHLDREN from Infancy to Marriage. ... 60 HOW TO FURNISH A HOUSE WITH SMAT T MEANS.  .     60   OF EUROPEAN LIFE. LOSING , Publisher,  819 WASHNGTON STREET, BOSTON.    Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by A. K. LORING, In the Clerk's Offlce of the District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Rockwell & Churchill, Printers and Sterootypers 122 Washington Street, Boston.   PREFACE. EUROPE has been so thoroughly explored that very little is left for a traveller to describe. Her science, statistics, and social relations will still afford abun- dant food for the publications of the learned; while a mere admirer of nature and art can scarcely add anything valuable to what has been already written. I have thought, under these circumstances, that a description of her customs, manners, and monuments would be less hackneyed in the form of tales than tracts, and have created purely fictitious characters to occupy familiar scenes; embodying, in this way, the memories of a residence of some years. I can only hope that the recollections of Italy, or the anticipations of seeing a country with which America has always generously sympathized, and to whom she is so much indebted for improvement and pleasure, will lend an attraction to these tales entirely in- dependent of their own claim. JANUARY, 1870.    TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. ST. CECILIA.  "Beautiful the city lay; Cathedral, tower, and palace, piazza, street, The river trailing like a silver cord Through all."        - Mrs. Browning. OUR story dates back to the time when the Tuscans were living under Leopoldo II., contented with him and his government. "Florence the fair" never looked fairer. An April shower had fallen in the morning, but all traces of it (except the freshness it gave to the early foli- age) had vanished under the influence of a bright sun. The valley of the Arno was aglow with'blossoms. The dis- tant Apennines, in their purple mantles and snow-crowned summits, lay like Titan monarchs slumbering on the horizon, and over all hung the glorious azure of an Italian sky. Two young men, quietly -sauntering on the Lung Arno, were enjoying in silent languor the fascination of the 5    6       TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. scene. They were strikingly different in appearance, and no one could hesitate about their nationalities, one being as unmistakably an Italian as the other an American, and each a favorable type of his countrymen. Count Visconti, a Milanese nobleman, descended from the famous and infamous family of that name, was a large land-owner, and the proprietor of a beautiful estate on Lake Como, where he was adored by the peasantry, whose condition he had elevated and improved by benevo- lent and judicious measures. His winter residence was usually in Milan, but the state of his health requiring a change, he bad sought it in Tuscany. Slight in figure, he was well formed, graceful and pliant in his move- ments. His dark eyes were full of earnestness, which changed at times into a look of playful mockery. His hair was of a chestnut hue, his beard, and mustache varie- gated by a tinge of bright auburn,--a type not only prized for its rarity, but considered a mark of aristocracy in southern countries. The acquaintance between him and Charles Stanley had ripened into particular esteem and friendship. Indeed the Italian, with his ardent nature, had conceived an extravagant affection for the American, and wished to include him-in all his occupations and amusements. On the present occcasion it had just been arranged between them to start for Prato ini the evening (it being Good Friday), to witness the interesting cere- monials peculiar to that city. ;      ST. CECILIA.          7 Stanley was tall and spare, with blond hair and fine features. His face, lighted by calm blue eyes, wore that expression of perfect self-possession, courage, and cheerful- ness, which a sound constitution, a good conscience, and easy circumstances are apt to bestow. He was an orphan, and having only one sister, he had placed her at a school near London, so that during the three years he had spent in diplomacy and travel on the Continent, he had been able occasionally, to visit England, and watch over her interests and education. Before separating, seven o'clock had been fixed upon as the hour of their departure. At the appointed time the count's carriage drove up to the Hotel d'Italia, but it was not till fifteen minutes after that Stanley appeared, say- ing- -- "You are the most punctual of Italians." "And you, I trust, the most unpunctual of Americans." "I have an eccentric friend, two of whose proverbs al- ways amuse me; one is, 'Punctuality is the thief of time.' This you have proved by waiting a quarter of an hour.  The other is, 'Never do to-day what you can put off till to-morrow.'  "Yes," laughed Visconti; "the second proverb is not quite so applicable as the first. The ceremony can neither be postponed nor repeated. I have some friends in Prato whom  I wish to see, and escort to the spectacle. So jump in, or we shall be late."   8       TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. Prato is a quaint, interesting, bright old place, about sixteen miles from Florence. On reaching it, they were driven to La Posta, the pleasant inn most frequented by travellers. "Will you go to see the Duomo," said the count, " and join us before ten o'clock; or will you accompany me, and be presented to the Vannis?" "I will spend my time in looking about me." "The landlord has engaged a. room on the piazza for me, and will show you the way; but be sure to be in time. The procession moves punctually at ten, and a little before that hour no one is allowed to pass through the square; you must, therefore, forget your proverbial philosophy for this evening." "I will be careful, and pay as much attention to my watch as to the cathedral. Are you satisfied?" "Perfectly, and as I am going through the piazza, will leave you at the Duomo.9' As they approached the Campanile, which stood out in bold relief under the moon, Stanley exclaimed:- "This is almost equal to Giotto's bell-tower in Flor- ence. The six stories are not quite so pleasing to the eye as his four; but Pisano must have been a great archi- tect. Why is architecture considered less of a fine art than painting or sculpture? To me, there is nothing so beautiful as harmony of proportion; and look, what a back-   S T. CECILIA.          9 ground for a work of art!" And he pointed to the cloud- less sky overhead. "My dear fellow," said Visconti, "I have no time for esthetical discussions. I am sure you will settle these matters more to your satisfaction by yourself. Architec- ture, you know, has been   defined as 'frozen  music.' There's an idea for you to work up. Sorry to deprive you of an audience." After admiring the Italian Gothic facade, Stanley en- tered the church, which was thoroughly lighted. The- priests were performing mass. His love of beautiful pro- portion was entirely satisfied by the interior, and an hour passed rapidly in looking at the different chapels, and lis- tening to the music. "If the Saxons had been gifted with more 'artistic natures,", he thought, "Protestantism would have found it more difficult to enthrone herself in England. But I must be going." Looking out, he saw that stagings were erected, on all sides of the square, from the sidewalks as high as the first story of the houses, and that the rows of seats were, many of them, occupied by  the neighboring peasantry in gala costume.  He hurried to the inn, and the landlord guided him to the room he had engaged. There he found the count and two ladies, in an apartment overlooking the piazza, seated in a window opening upon a  balcony. He was presented to the Signora Vanni and her niece, a lovely girl of seventeen. The room was only illumined by   10       TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. the rays of the moon, and as she sat with their light fall- ing upon her, Stanley thought he had never seen so charm- ing an object. She was of medium height, with a well-formed, though girlish figure; her complexion was clear, and of a creamy color, which, added to classic features, dark hair and eyes, made her look like an Italian; while the frank glance in the latter, and an expression of sincerity in her mouth, denoted the Saxon temperament. "I was very fearful," said Visconti, " that we should not see you; you have just escaped being excluded from the spectacle; they are clearing the streets, and we have only a few minutes for conversation. Signorina Cecilia, break your silence; you look so ethereal in the pale moonlight, that you seem a disembodied spirit; convince us that you are flesh and blood by answering this practical question, When do you go to England?" "I am glad to assure you I am thoroughly alive, and sorry to say we must leave to-morrow; the last limit of the vacation has arrived, and at one o'clock we bid adieu to Prato.' While they were  talking over their plans, Stanley observed the blood danced into her cheek, a light shot into her eyes; and a smile, playing about her lips, added to the illumination of her face, in which, owing to-the sudden change from silent pensiveness to sparkling vivacity; there was a constant alternation of light and shade.   ST. CEBCItA.          " Suddenly the distant wail of a dirge was heard, .and our party moved into the balcony. A band of soldiers passed by, marching in time to the solemn music. As soon as they were out of sight, a most complete and perfect silence succeeded. An impulsive exclamation of wonder escaping Stanley's lips, it was heard all over the square; those be- low the window, on stagings, turned up their faces, scowl- ing darkly, and for a few moments his situation was very embarrassing. The signorina, in the lowest audible whisper, warned him of the impropriety, and even danger, of again inter- rupting the silence. A number of Roman knights, passing by, fortunately called off the attention of the people. They were clad in armor, and, their horses' hoofs being bound with tow, they moved noiselessly over   the pavement. The  effect was ghostly and supernatural, very much- heightened by the accurate representation of the ancient costumes. It was a scene worthy   of Hawthorne's pen,-so marvellous   and strange, so poetical and unreal. Pontius Pilate, with a body of lictors, now appeared, followed by a large com- pany of foot-soldiers with spears and standards. The op- pressive stillness was at length broken by the strains of a funeral march, and the voices of a choir of boys. Priests were seen dressed in rich robes, bearing the instruments, of torture of our Saviour: the nails, hammers, and crown of thorns.   12       TALBS OF BUROPEAN LIFE. The great feature of the procession now came in sight, - an effigy of Christ borne on a bier, under a blaze of light from the huge wax candles surrounding it. The Madonna followed, also brilliantly illuminated. The spectacle occu- pied an hour's time. As the last figures filed away, Stan- ley said to his neighbor:-    - "May I come out of Coventry?" "As soon as you like," she answered, smiling. "Thank you, a thousand times, for your kind warning; would it had come before! it would have saved me from a very awkward sensation, that of being the focus of so many indignant glances. Besides, as it is a Catholic cele- bration, the interruption must have been distasteful to you." "Even were I a Catholic, these ceremonies would, I think, seem childish and irreverent. The Pratesi, however, take great pride in this procession, and show jealousy at any interruption. I knew of a party of English people being stoned one night for making a noise." '"Indeed! I have had quite an escape, and with your permission will consider you my protectress in these untried regions." "With pleasure; but why do you say untried? You speak Italian with great ease and correctness, though I will not pay you the common and fulsome compliment of mis- taking -you for a native." -   ,ST. CECILIA.         13 "I have been in Italy for several years, but never before in Prato." "Let us go down into the piazza," said the count, giv- ing his arm to Madame Vanni, at the same time asking Stanley to take' care of the signorina. "I have just been praying her to protect me." False facades were put up about the church, glowing with lights, and the whole square was ablaze. In front of the Duomo was a representation of a tomb, with guards standing about, and, after the body was deposited, there was music. "The crowd is oppressive," whispered Visconti; "let us take refuge again in our balcony, and I will send Gaetano for ices." They returned, and remained till quiet was restored, and then the ladies were left at home. As they were walking to the inn, Visconti said:- - "I should like to see my friends off to-morrow, if you do not object to lingering in Prato till mid-day." "C On the contrary, I have not seen the Campanile as much as I wish, and should like to know if any of my impressions of its beauty are owing to the romance of the scene." Accordingly the -next morning. Stanley returned to the piazza, and Visconti went to the Vannis. As they sepa- rated, the count said: - 2   "      TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. "Perhaps you will look  in upon ttem before one o'clock." "Certainly." "I go early, as, having been an intimate friend for a long time, Madame Vanni wishes to consult me upon some business matters, Signor Vanni having gone to the south of France for his health." "I trust you will not have finished your confidential interview with the aunt before I arrive. I should like to see the niece again." "Then you were pleased with her?" "Delighted. She is thoroughly charming; that word expresses more than any other, and is one I have been able conscientiously to apply to very few women." "What a cynical mood you are in!" "Truth is often mistaken for cynicism." The Duomo was not disappointing, and the Campanile, though not as striking under the sunlight, was really as beautiful as Stanley remembered it. He examined care- fully the paintings in the choir by Fra Lippi. He was a clever draughtsman, and always carried a sketch-book with him. He had made sketches of several of Masaccio's celebrated frescoes in the Carmine at Florence, and, seeing a group which, by its force, contrasted well with the senti- ment of his last drawing from Lippi's master, he seated himself to make his outline. His work interested him, and time passed swiftly and noiselessly until it found a tongue   ST. CECILIA.         15 in the great bell of the Campanile, which at one o'clock filled the air with its vibrations. Stanley heard a voice from a party of Americans near him, saying, "Is it possi- ble it is so late?" and, jumping up, he rushed out of -the church. As- he turned into a long street leading to the Signora Vanni's house, which stood at the other extremity, he saw a carriage at the door. While he was approaching, Visconti came out, and handed the eldest lady in. Cecilia remained on the steps, shaking hands with him. She was in the bright sunlight, and Stanley saw every line and dimple in her face. The door closed, and, finding it was impossible to overtake them, he reached the Duomo again by an alley-way, not feeling in a humor to be bantered by his friend. Taking another look at the picture, and being in no mood to continue his work, he strolled towards the inn. The count met him, saying:-- "Why did you not come to take leave of the ladies?" "I am sorrv not to have seen them again." "Not that they could have expected it on so slight an acquaintance. You have been sketching, I see." And getting into the carriage, which drove up at that moment, with Stanley, he looked over the book.  ' You are very clever with your pencil," he said. "I always envy that talent." "But you are-a fine musician; does not that satisfy you?" "Music has more power over me than any other art, but o   16       TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. there is something beautiful and tangible in drawing." They did not speak again until they were near Florence, when Visconti said, "Caro mio, I have respected your reverie long enough; what weighty subject of thought engrosses you?  , Oastle-building." -"Ah, another form of your architectural mania." "My chateaux are not in Spain, but England. I was dreaming of the possibility of meeting your young friend there." "I fear there is no probability of it. She is at an excellent establishment for young ladies near London; where, I know not, but can ascertain from her aunt on her return." "Thank you, but I could not avail myself of the knowl- edge. She bestowed so much more attention on the cere- monies than on me, that I am sure she would not recognize me by daylight. My name was not mentioned, and, there- fore, she cannot remember anything about me." "Except your voice," said the count, laughing, " which made an impression in the hush of the ' stilly night,' as your Irish bard calls it; but for your consolation I will repeat an Italian proverb: 'The world turns round, and so people come together.' '" "This beautiful weather," he continued, "makes me feel that I ought to be at Lake Como.  I must leave to-morrow, for there is a summer's work before me. What k                  f-   *   ST. CECrLrA.          17 I am most interested in now is -building small houses for the peasants at my estates, and renting them low. Nothing induces habits of cleanliness and order more than making men comfortable. Come with me. Your advice will be valuable, your companionship inestimable." "I would do so most willingly, but I must return to England. A house has been engaged for me, and I know not whether I shall serve again in one of our foreign lega- tions, or return to America. It is time I should see my little sister again, so I shall leave when you do." The next morning they parted, happily unconscious of the time to elapse ere they again met; but so it is in this  world; we are the sport of fate and chance, living amongst persons for whom we do not care, and separating ourselves from those who are most congenial. "Il mondo e tondo, ei gira, e le genti si riscontrano." II. STANLEY made his way to England as fast as possible by rail and steam. At the terminus in London he took a- coach and drove to the Elms, - the name of the establish- ment where he had placed his sister Lucy. As-he was waiting in the hall, a side door opened, and a young lady, 2   18       TALES OF EUROPEAN LII;E. entering, went up the staircase. It was dusk, but her appearance reminded him so much of Cecilia Vanni, that he forgot where he was, till recalled to, himself by his sis- ter's rushing down and overwhelming him with all kinds of manifestations of delight.     $ "Are you ready to go home with me? , said he. "More than ready, the afternoon has been so long.' "And can Mrs. Ogilvie spare you for a few days?" "I have stipulated for a week. As we have not met for a year, it would have been an insult to her good sense to have asked for less." '  As they drove to his house in Piccadilly, which had been put in readiness for his arrival, he asked:- "Who went up the stairs as you were coming down?" "I do not know. I was not thinking of any one but you, or anything but the length of the staircase, It may have been one of the four mistresses, or one of the twenty scholars, or one of the six servants, or- " "Thank you for your lucid answer; but here we are." And he thought, "This was a trick of imagination, and proves the folly of dwelling on one subject." The week passed rapidly; there was so much to hear on both sides and so much to see together, friends to visit and sights to look at, that Lucy was enthusiastically happy. 'She was a bright, handsome young romp of fifteen, and there had always been a great sympathy between her and her brother. Being mature of her age, she was a compan-   ST. CECILIA.          19 ion for him; and yet the eight years' difference between them gave almost a paternal relation to his feelings for her. One day, when she, was in particularly good spirits, she played a new set of waltzes by Strauss, and then, after dancing round the room till she was tired, she threw her- self on the sofa, saying:-- "I wish you would tell me more about your travels in Italy." "I shall take you there, some time hence, to see it for yourself; but you will have to moderate your excessive gayety, -you would astonish a foreign coterie.' "I doubt if I should wish to go. I hear that young ladies fall from somebodies into nobodies; that they have to remain with a chaperone all the evening at a ball, except when they are led out to dance by some one who either talks bad English or listens to worse Italian; that lemonade and sponge cake are the chief of their diet. So I am sure that Miss Lucy could never be quiet." Stanley laughed, and said:-- "You will have to go to be toned down, and lose some of your young Americanishness." "Now, I am   sure," said Lucy, saucily; "you  have never seen an Italian girl you would wish me to resem- ble." "I have seen one, but I must confess she had been edu- cated in England, and the Saxon frankness with the Tus-   20       TAES OF EUROPEAN ZIFE. can courtesy made a charming, compound. Grafting im- proves the flavor of fruit wonderfully." "Yes, I remember you always liked compound colors, and preferred me to dress in purple or green, to blue or pink, and you thought claret improved your lemonade; but to return to your friend, - what is the name of this pattern of perfection?  Something grand, I suppose, of ten sylla- bles, containing twenty vowels." "Only two; Vanni, - Cecilia Vanni." Lucy; who had retained her recumbent position, started to her feet, and for a few moments her brother thought she had lost her senses. She leaped out of the room, rushed upstairs, and down again, holding a, box. This she opened, and threw a pile of photographs on the table; from these she selected one, and, pushing it towards him, ex- claimed: - "She is my most darling friend."      "Then it was she whom  I saw going up the stairs. Why could I not have supposed so, as I knew she was at school near London?" "Of course it was; she is a mortal, and after walking takes off her hat and shawl, and smooths her hair. Were she an angel, as you suppose, her wings would require at- tention; but - seeing a vexed expression on her brother's face -"I love her more than any of my schoolmates, though she is two years older, and always call her my St. Cecilia, not only on account of her angelic qualities, but   ST. CECILIA.         21 for her musical proficiency. You can see her when you take me back." But Lucy could not keep her promise, for, when they returned, Cecilia had gone. Mrs. Ogilvie said she seemed very unhappy and averse to leaving, and promised to write when there was anything pleasant to communicate. "What an ignisfatuus she is!" thought Stanley. He was more disappointed than he was willing to ac- knowledge, for though he had been so much in society, and had a friendship for some women, and an admiration for others, he had never met with one who came so near his ideal as Cecilia. The mystery that hung about her added to the fascination. "She is certainly very beautiful;" said he, looking at her photograph, and he whiled away the time by making a large copy in water colors.' When Lucy returned, which she did every Saturday, she was delighted with it. "I should like one in crayon," said she; "it would suit her pensive style better; yours looks more as she does when animated and amused. I shall call them even- ing and morning. You must have seen her very often.9' "Only twice." ' You ought to have been an artist. I want to write to her, but have not her address." "Direct to Prato." "No; she told me her aunt had moved from   there. Can you not ask Count Visconti, to whom you write so much, if he knows anything of the lost Pleiad?"   22       TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. But, before he could follow her advice, a letter came to Lucy sealed with black, and her kind heart overflowed her eyes, while she read it. "FLORENCE, Sept. 4th, 18--. "MY DEAREST LUCY:- - You must not be vexed with me for not hav- ing written before. I have been too unhappy to do anything but grieve. My good aunt, whose illness was the cause of my leaving England, died a month since, and her loss weighs more heavily on me every day. Having only a life interest in her property, she could not provide suit- ably for her daughter, my favorite cousin, and certainly not for me, to whom she was always so generous. My uncle, from being prosperous, has become very limited in his means. He says, what is very true, that I have had great advantages of education, and that I must bring my acquirements to some practical use. What can I do, and what will become of me? These questions haunt me, and I cannot answer them satisfactorily. If I ever do so, you shall hear from me. "Your loving friend, "C. VANNI. "P. S. We leave Florence to-morrow, and I can form no idea where I shall be a month hence." "And here we are," exclaimed Stanley, "with wealth at our command, but not able to help or aid her." Week after week passed, and month followed month. Visconti wrote that he had heard nothing of the family since their misfortunes.. Stanley chafed under the mystery, and, at the end of a year, he determined to leave England.  The direction-of his travels was decided by hearing that a friend,   - ST. CECILIA.        23 who was on the Russian legation, was very seriously ill, and he was wanted to take -his place. "It is of great importance that America should be well represented just now," wrote the minister; "as I know  you to be the man needed, I shall look for you at the earliest oppor- tunity." "Go," said his sister, who saw that he was becoming ennuye; "you know I have two more years to be at school." "Yes, and I wanted to be near you; but perhaps I had better go;" and his servant had orders to make preparations for leaving as soon as possible. Lucy tried to conceal her sorrow at parting with him. When he had gone, she indulged her grief in his library, and observed that Cecilia's portrait had disappeared. "Poor 'Charles! He is really infatuated about my friend." II. Two years seem a long period of life to look forward to; but they pass rapidly, and, in retrospect, appear short. Stanley found his position at St. Petersburg neither very congenial, nor the reverse. He heard constantly from Lucy, and even met her once in Paris, where she went   24       TALES OF EUROPEAN LJFE. with some friends during a vacation. . He returned to Eng- land at the expiration of his term of office, determined to devote himself to her education, which he thought really was to begin from that period. . He secured the best masters for her, read a great deal to her, sketched with her, lived over history in the tower and cathedrals, lectured on art in the galleries, and having wealth, taste, culture, and leis- ure, became, as his sister called him, a travelling tutor. They both felt a keen interest in the romantic Stuart period. This taste had been fostered in Lucy by Mrs. Ogilvie, whose great-grandfather had been out in the '45, and who had many anecdotes of hardship and'adventure, with which she entertained her scholars.  "EHow I wish I could go to Scotland!" she exclaimed one day, while listen- ing to an account of the Jacobite rebellions. "You shall," replied Stanley; and he took her to all the places of inter- est illustrated by the magic pen of Scott, and traced +te ill-fated chevalier even to Cullolen. He had carried on a correspondence with Count Visconti during the years of his absence, and had been much perplexed by the sudden break which had occurred in it. Hie was therefore delighted, on his return, at finding a letter, which we transcribe: - "MLAN, April 16th, 18-. "MY DEAR STANLEY:-I hope my late letters have miscarried, as I have received no answer to them. Hoping still more strongly that this will reach you, I write to say that I cannot consent to any   ST. CECILIA.            25 more time elapsing without meeting. The Fates have thwarted us enough; let us defy them. I feel sure you will come to Milan immedi- ately-, where I am settled in the home of my fathers, -and stay with me as long as possible. We will leave our four years of separation to be discussed when we meet. La Vanni is here, whom you will like to see. If you have not (as I suspect) heard from me for some time, you may not know that I have resumed my friendly relations with the family. -I have had the sensation of my life lately. Mendelssohn has been here, and brought letters to me. Night after night he has played at my house to a circle of friends, for he is as social and obliging as he is great. He is a wide liker also, and recognizes merit where it exists, in all kinds and styles of music, from Bach and Beethoven, through the alphabet of men of talent as well as genius.' Mozart's son was here at the same time, and after Mendelssohn had played the overture to Don Giovanni, he begged for some of his father's Zauber Flote. When you come I will try to do more justice to his 'Leider ohue worte,' which you always admired. He went to Lake Como, and was amused with our village society. But I must stop writing about this beautiful and wonderful man. Again I say, come I You will find much to interest and entertain you. There are fine pictures and buildings, glorious weather, and all Milan is enthusiastic about the new prima donna. "Ever yours, "LE VISCONTI." "Why does he mention all these attractions?" thought Stanley. "I can dispense with the opera, but music is his passion; he probably alludes to Parenti, the great Italian singer, who made her debut at St. Petersburg just afthr I left."  He felt a  most pleasurable excitement at the   idea of meeting Cecilia again, and delighted to find she was un- married.  "She   may be engaged, however," he   said to   26      TAIES OF EUROPEAN LIFE.  himself, " and if not, I have no hold nor claim upon her consideration. My position is peculiar, having cherished her image daily, knowing every feature by heart, while she never has seen me but. once in the evening, probably did not hear my name, and cannot remember me." He made immediate arrangements for Lucy to stay with a friend, wrote to the count, fixing upon the hour of his arrival, and gave his servant orders to be in readiness the -next day to leave for Dover.' * Always alive to the beauties of nature, it was a delight to him to meet the spring on the Italian side of the Alps. His heart beat high with hope, though the hope was dashed with anxiety. ' The day he entered Milan was a beautiful one. As the cars neared the depot, he looked out for the carriage he expected Visconti to send for him. At the same moment, a lady who sat a few seats in front of him turned round to speak to a person behind her. "Cecilia, by all that's lucky!" he inwardly exclaimed; but he did not move; he sat spellbound and awed at seeing the em- bodiment of his four years' dream. Action was soon nec- essary; the cars stopped, and while his servant was attend- ing to his baggage he watched the party which had at- tracted his attention. The lady and her maid looked about in an anxious, disappointed manner, and when they got out , Stanley followed, and, suddenly taking courage, he ap- proached the signorina, saying: -    ST. CECIIOA.         27 "Can I be of any assistance?" adding, "I believe we have formerly met at Prato." "I formerly lived in Prato," she said, bowing cour- teously. "I have been to a neighboring town to visit a friend, and my carriage has disappointed me." a At this moment Visconti drove up, and, seeing his ex- pected guest, alighted and welcomed him with all the warmth of his enthusiastic nature. Hearing of the dilem- ma, he ordered his coachman to take the lady home. "Get in with your maid,"' he said, " and we will walk; it is a short distance."' "I will make no excuses for giving you more of this perfect atmosphere; we shall meet to-night; pray bring your friend." While she spoke, Stanley observed her as closely as po- liteness admitted, and he saw the alterations that so many years would have been likely to make. She was more mature, fuller in person, and with more ease of manner. The fine features, the grace and vivacity, the frank look in the eyes, were the same, though the change in her face when she spoke was not so striking. The lovely girl had ripened into the beautiful woman.- "With whom does she live?" he asked, as they drove out of sight. "With her married brother. We are invited to supper there after the theatre; you are not too much fatigued to go?    28       TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. "Fatigued! I feel as fresh as when we used to climb the Fiesdan hills together." And they talked over the past, forgetting the present, until they neared La Scala, when the count stopped, saying:- "This theatre is built on the site of a fine church which was erected by the relict of an ancestor of mine, Bernabo Visconti." Stanley looked before him. He saw nothing but large red letters, whose flames burned their meantng into his soul. "La Parenti Vanni, in her famous role of Lucrezia Bor- gia." He grew very pale, while the count, interested in his description, did not observe his agitation. At length,- turn- ing round, he said:-  - "Notwithstanding your disclaimer, you must be weary, and fortunately we are near home." Stanley flew to the refuge of his own chamber. His servant had just arrived with his baggage, and, after taking out a change of clothes, left the room. In a few moments Visconti knocked.  "Carlo mio, I cannot tell you how charmed I am to see .you under my roof. Here is a letter from England to welcome you; it arrived yesterday. We do not dine till six; so take your rest." And he shut himself out. The letter was from Lucy. *   ST. CECIL IA.          29 "ONDON. "DEAR CHARLES:-I write most hurriedly to say that on reading the morning paper, which you, in your preoccupation, had not opened, I 'found a rhapsody on the new prima, donna in Milan, La Parenti Vanni. From the description of her person, I am sure she is my old friend. Poor Cecilia! How little I thought of theuse she would make of her fine musical powers! I have been shedding torrents of tears to her memory, for we shall never meet again, and I earnestly entreat you not to mention my name to her. i After the grief of hear- ing she is an- actress, the next greatest sorrow would be the renewal of our intercourse. "Your unhappy sister, "UCY." "Little bigot!" said her brother, as he threw the letter into the fire, which, though the day was warm, was burn- ing in the ample chiimney, as a preservative against the dampness of the old palace; " yet perhaps she is right. La Vanni does not evidently recognize me, nor can she know me to be the brother of her -schoolmate."   And he sat down and sighed over the vanity of human wishes, these words coming into his mind: "The present pleasure, lby rev- olution, does become the opposite of itself." He had been counting the hours since he received Visconti's letter, and now he would have given worlds not to have acted upon it; but the strongest feelings must be controlled, and when they met at dinner the count thought his friend as agree- able as ever, and had not an idea, as they were driving to the opera, that he was leading a victim to the sacrifice.   30       TALES' OF EUROPEAN ZPIFE. IV.  THE event of the debut of a native prima donna was very absorbing to the Milanese. In no country are local pride and attachment more strong than in Italy; these they carry to such an extent that towns' people prefer inter- marrying, and a distance of a few miles creates a chasm in interests, and even tends to slight antipathies. The Flor- entines say, with a shrug, "He is only a Livornesi; what can be expected of him?" The Lucchesi at the Baths do not like to form connections out of their little village. This feeling of neighborly dislike has been a great bar to the Italian unity. La Vanni was born at Milan, and, though she had not lived there for some years, the family was remembered as one of culture and ,position, and when it was understood that she had gone upon the stage to support an indigent father, every one felt kindly disposed towards her. Her spotless reputation and amiable man- ners had increased the-public admiration. She had ap- peared in one of the smaller Lombard cities two years sine, to test her powers; and her beauty, grace, and genius had met with a deserved triumph. Since then, she had sung at Florence, Naples, Rome, and St. Petersburg; but La Scala was, on account of its immense size, a fearful or- deal. She had, however, taken great pains in rehearsing,  ST. CECILIA.         381 and learning to manage her magnificent voice, and for five nights she had appeared, and met with an entire success. This was to be her benefit. The seven tiers of boxes were entirely filled. Yisconti's, near the stage, commanded an excellent view. A   relative of the Vannis, the Marquis Pagano, was seated there- when the friends entered, and Stanley was relieved by finding that he was one of the most demonstra- tive of Italians, and talked so incessantly that he was able to sit quiet and unobserved. When the curtain rose, his heart seemed to stand still, but the first notes of La Vanni's voice made it throb as if it would burst its bounds. Lucrezia Borgia is a very favorite opera in Italy.  It is the fashion to call it hack- ieyed; but it has such true dramatic elements, such harmoni- )us airs, well-concerted choruses, and well-developed plot, ;hat it will live in spite of criticism. One advantage it has which will always make it a welcome part to an actress of talent. It demands fine tragic powers. La Vanni proved )erfectly equal to the occasion; she threw herself into the haracter  with abandon, and   was enthusiastically  ap- plauded. At the end of the first act, Stanley asked: - "Is this the Parenti who created such a furore in Flor- nce at the Pergola?" "Certainly, though no one knew at that time who she was. I  became afterwards privy to the secret.  Parenti ras her mother's name, and when she decided most un-   TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. willingly to study for the stage, she obtained her father's consent to assume it. Here, in deference to the prepos- sessions of the Milanese, she calls herself Parenti Vanni. She enjoys her profession now, and has a true artistic en- thusiasm; but I trust she will not follow it long." "Heaven grant it!  It is the last career one would choose for a woman of refinement." "Your American prejudice is stronger on that point than ours; but why do I say prejudice?--it is a natural feeling, and I regret intensely that I was not consulted; her being sacrificed to a selfish father might have been pre- vented. He was delighted with her success, and died sat- isfied with what he had done." The opera went on, and they were all absorbed in the music. The curtain fell amid a tumult of applause. The Marquis Pagano's servant brought in a basket of the choicest bouquets, which his master threw with a prac- tised hand. The prima donna received all this homage with dignified pleasure. "Che bella creatura "l' exclaimed the marquis, who had not ceased crying ("Brava, bravissima! ' Englishmen and Americans, however continentalized, cannot understand the Italian fervor, and Stanley, harassed as he was, could not prevent a smile at the shouts and ges- ticulations of his neighbor. The count's enthusiasm was more quiet; it burned with a steady flame, while Pagano's exploded like fireworks. Making their way out of the   ST. CECILIA.   crowd, they drove to La Vanni's apartments. Here they were received by her brother and his wife, who always pre- sided over the establishment, and here they met English as well as Italians, for the acquaintance of the singer was con- sidered a distinction, especially as she was very particular with regard to her companions. All the concert troupe were on good terms with her, but the opera house was their only place of meeting. At home she appeared as a refined and cultivated lady in private life. She soon entered, and received her friends with gracious hospitality. At supper she sat between 'Stanley and Pagano. As the servant, poured wine into their glasses, she said to the former:-- "Dareyou pledge the Borgia?" "Were there death in the cup," he answered, quoting a cavalier song from Woodstock, and raising his to his lips. "Here's a health to King Charles!" she replied, smiling. "You astonish me. I should have looked for a great  deal of information about your grand old Ferruccio, and, other Italian heroes; but how came you to know anything of the Stuarts?" "My grandmother was an Englishwoman, and I was some years at school near London. The head of the es- tablishment was an ardent admirer of Scottish literature, and never wearied of Charles II.'s escapes, and Charles Edward's adventures." Lucy's name was on her brother's lips, but he sealed them, and shut it in. 3    34       TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. "And- now, if it be not too egotsti,sti  a question, - How did you know my name?" "I have heard the count speak frequently of his friend, Mr. Charles Stanley." At this point the marquis broke in, and mnopolized the conversation. Stanley was not in spirits to contest the prize, and was glad when they rose from the table.  For the I next fortnight, the limit of La Vanni's engagement, they went to the opera whenever she sang, and met her frequently in society, for she was sought after by all the most fashionable persons in Milan. Stanley had become, in a measure, accustomed to the idea of her profession, though he still regretted it bitterly. Gradually he began to feel friendship taking the place of a warmer passion. "And yet," he often thought, "I cannot become an icon- oclast; my idol will always have a shrine in my heart." It was evident that she entertained a high opinion of him, and preferred talking with him to most of those by whom she was surrounded. Indeed, report had coupled their names together, and he received an expostulatory let- ter from Lucy: - "DEAR CHARLES :-- YOU will not give me an opera singer for a sis- ter. I know she must be dangerously fascinating; therefore come back to England, and try to forget there ever was a Cecilia Vanni. Act with your accustomed energy. Make of her portrait a burnt of- fering, and return to your loving sister,    Lucor."         *   ST. CECILIA.         35 It will be better for me to do so," he thought; " why should I linger here and singe my-wings. I will leave that to Pagano,." Prompt decision was one of his characteris- tics. He sought Visconti immediately, and told him he must return to England. The count looked; greatly disap- pointed. "My dear friend, I cannot spare you now; business. of moment requires my presence at Como, and I wish particu- larly to see you on my return. In fact, I must insist on your stay as a sacrifice (if you consider it such) to friendship. With your tastes, another week or two will soon pass. La Vanni will remain in Milan, as it is too late in the season for her to make any other engagements; so (taking him by the hand) you will remain." "Certainly, if you desire it so much." "What can he wish of me?" thought he. "Is it possible that he imagines I have committed myself by my attentions to his protegee? I will remain, and try to avoid her, though it will require great self-denial." There was a large entertainment at the Marchesa Paga- no's that evening. The young marquis had prevailed on his mother to invite La Vanni. He had to plead some time, as the lady was an old Italian aristocrat, and not in- clined to admit a singer, however lovely and virtuous, into her house. When Stanley arrived, with his newly formed resolutions, he avoided the prima donna, until chance threw them to-   36     .  TALES OP EUROPEAN LZIFE. gether, when she gave him so cordial a reception that he was obliged to reciprocate her greeting. They stood to- gether for a long time, until the host came to hand her to supper. The marchesa, won by her beauty and grace, made room for her near the head of the table. Stanley soon left. "She is really charming," he thought; and, on reaching home, took his likeness of her out of his trunk. As he gazed upon it, he said to himself, - What would I not give to roll back the wheels of time, and see her again as she was? She has lost the pensiveness of her still face. Lucy was right in saying that crayon -suited her better at that time. She still looks wonderfully like my copy," and, going into the library, he drew another likeness, with her additional fulness and difference of expression. While he was working, the door suddenly opened, and Pagano was announced. "Excuse the lateness of the visit, but as I was strolling about to get a little fresh air, after the party, I saw your light, and thought I would come in for a moment. But what have we here?" - taking up the portrait. "Perfect! admirable! a little younger. When was it taken? Ah! and you are sketching another. Apropos. I have heard several times lately that you were engaged to her; but I always deny it. strenuously." "Do not take that trouble." "No trouble. On the contrary, it is a pleasure. You   ST. CECILrA.         37 know an American in your position would not think of marrying an: opera singer," -watching him closely. "Would an Italian?" "It would be more probable. Was she not beautiful this evening? Did you see how much struck the marchesa was with her?" "Every one must acknowledge her superiority," said Stanley, dryly. The marquis twirled his mustache, and looked dissatis- fied. "When do you leave Milan?" he asked abruptly. "I do not know; it will depend on circumstances." "How unfortunate!" thought Stanley, when he had taken his leave. "That simpleton will be sure to fly to La 'Vanni with a gossiping story of having detected me in se- cretly making a portrait of her. And yet it would not iave been politic to have urged concealment upon him." The following week he took some excursions into the Leighborhood, besides spending a large part of his time in horoughly examining  the Duomo, and other churches, Particularly the Santa Maria delle Grazie, in the refectory f which is the Last Supper of Leonardo da Vinci. Here ras a shrine at which he was'never weary of worshipping. [e had admired the picture so much, as engraved by Iorghen, that he had not anticipated how infinitely supe- or the original was, even in its ruinous condition. He passed La Vanni's house frequently, and often saw   38       TALES OP EUROPEAN gIFE. Pagano's carriage at the door. "What a bore he must be!," he thought. "In spite of his handsome face, amiable disposition, and intense devotion, his wealth and position, I cannot believe she will marry him. Were her father alive, he might insist upon it." A few more days were occupied in the same way, and then Visconti wrote, saying he should return immediately. Stanley thought that he had been too abrupt in the discon- tinuance of his visits, and he determined to call at once. The weather was hot, and he waited until he had dined, in order that the sun should .lose a little of his power; then, putting on his hat, he was drawing on his gloves when his servant brought him a note:- , DEAR MR. STANLEY : -I am sorry you have not given me an op- portunity of asking a favor of you; but, not having met you for so long, I must write to say that I wish you would come here as soon as you can conveniently, as I have -the utmost faith in your granting it. "Very truly yours, "C. VANNI." "Some party in which she wishes to include me, or a concert she is getting up for the poor. She is full of be nevolence and activity." As he neared her apartments, he thought he saw her go ing home with her maid. On overtaking them, while shak ing hands, he noticed, though her veil was down, an unwont   ST. CECrLTA.         39 ed embarrassment and shyness in her expression. He only had time to say," I was just coming when I received your note," before they reached the house, and found Pagano on the steps. He greeted Cecilia warmly, and lingered to talk with her, while the maid ushered Stanley into the parlor. It was unoccupied. Soon he heard some one go upstairs, and a carriage drive away. While he was waiting for the young lady's return, he formed one of his sudden resolutions. "She either is vexed with me," he mused, '"for not hav- ing been to call upon her, or disappointed at my apparent coldness." The bare suspicion that his friendly attentions might have been mistaken by her as well as others de- cided him to give her the choice of refusing or accepting him. He went on with his soliloquy. "She is all that a man could wish in a wife; and, knowing her worth as I do, it would be cowardice in me to fear the opinion of the world. Should she not care for me, I should not feel the slightest mortification, and Lucy will be happy. If she does, the embers of my former feelings are warm still, and may be fanned into a flame." At this crisis, La Vanni entered, with an easy, cheerful air, though her rising color betrayed her emotion, saying:- "You are very good to obey my summons so speedily; the truth is, I have a secret to impart." "So have I, but place aux dames.'" "Yours cannot be as important as mine,   I 'am en-   40      TALES OF EURnOPEAN LIFS. gaged to be married; of course you are not surprised, and we are in hopes you will stay in Milan to assist at the cere- mony." He was too much a man of the world to show his aston- ishment, and merely said, playfully, "Your news is over- whelming on so warm a day." And, taking up a fan from the table, he made use of it. She went on -- "I have been wanting very much to -tell you this the last week; but there was a doubt about the signora madre's consent, and, until everything was settled, I was not at lib- erty to speak of it. You know "-drawing herself up proudly  " that most families would object to receiving an opera singer; but I am not, and cannot feel ashamled of my profession. At first, the thought of it was most painful, but now I am attached to it intensely, and nothing but my marriage would make me relinquish it." "Many thanks for your kindness. I shall be happy to do all in my power to serve you," said Stanley, with an involuntary stiffness, for he thought it was a pity such a charming creature should throw herself away on Pagano. Personal regret he did not feel. A veil seemed to fall be- tween them. Not knowing what to say, he stumbled upon an ill-timed question:- "And Visconti, I suppose he is satisfied?" "I have every reason to think so," she replied, coloring and smiling.   ST. CECILIA.'         41 " That was an unfortunate remark," thought he ;- "for I am sure he cannot approve her choice." As they were talking, the sun had set, and twilight faintly lighted the room.  Suddenly he became aware of the presence of a third person. He looked up, and there, standing before him, was the real embodiment of his ideal woman. He thought his fevered imagination had conjured up a double image, until La Vanni said:- " There was another reason for my wishing to see you: I want you to know my cousin Cecilia, who is, in future, to live with me." He put out his hand, and his heart was in it. "  Good heavens ! have I been in error all this time ?"  She looked at his excited and agitated face with wonder. "Perhaps you took me for Cecilia; that is very natural; we have been constantly mistaken for each other, and, when we were together, enjoyed the Comedy of Errors so much, that we favored the likeness by our dress. I am Carlotta Vanni; but where did you meet my cousin ? " " So long since, that I am sure she cannot remember me.  "Not so long," said Cecilia, " unless time moves very slowly with you. We were walking together half an hour since, and,' - with a sudden flash of gayety, -- "had I not recalled your appearance, which I did immediately, I could not have mistaken the sound of your voice."   42'      TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. Stanley laughed; these words were the " open sesame " to the paradise from which he had been excluded so long. "Yes," he answ ered; " that accounts for the surprise which came over me on seeing a difference of expression, and it is only in expression. What a wonderful resem- blance!" looking from one to the other. He was de- lighted that seeing Cecilia was what had really influenced him to offer his heart to Carlotta. Visconti was now announced, and greeted them warmly, particularly the new-comer, whose hand he raised to his lips. The three friends seemed so engrossed in each other that Stanley felt de trop. He retired into the recess made by a large window, and, sitting down in the shadow of a heavy curtain, was lost in obscurity. As he sur- veyed the happy group, and saw Carlotta holding a hand of the count's and her cousin's together, and talking in a most earnest manner, a sudden pang shot into his heart. He recollected the visit at Prato; Visconti's silence about Cecilia; his want of attention to Carlotta. The flaming sword was again waved over his paradise. As he looked at his friend, and acknowledged his personal advantages, his grace, ease, and culture, he felt that he was a most formidable rival. Casting his eyes on the ground, he fell into an absorbing and bitter reverie. From this he was awakened by a tap on the shoulder, and the count's voice, saying: - "My dear- fellow, why do you not congratulate me? m     ST. CEC LIA.         43: Carlotta tells me you know of our happiness. Are you vexed that it should have been so long concealed from you? I can explain all that." Stanley started to his feet, and grasped his hand, ex- claiming: - "I have been wandering in a labyrinth of mistakes. I feared Pagano had won the signorina." "How, could you suspect me of such bad taste?" asked Carlotta. "My relationship to him explains our intimacy. His floral attentions will now be transferred to the next prima donna." "Let us have lights," said the count, ringing the bell; "this darkness is not typical of my feelings." On returning home, the friends passed the night in explanations, talking over the past until dawn. A letter written by Visconti, containing an account of the renewal of his intercourse with the Vannis, had miscarried. He had been in love with, and engaged to, Carlotta for some time, but feared his mother's opposition. Her consent had just' been obtained, and he had returned from Como per- fectly happy. He did not fear rivalry in her affections, and had thrown her with his friend as much as possible, to keep her from the annoyance of other admirers. "It might have proved a dangerous game," said Stan- ley; "but we will not criticise what has ended so hap- pily." "Caro mio, it was very painful to have any secret   "      TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. between us. I was on the eve of confession several times ;, but, besides the fact of not having obtained the countess' sanction, I feared. your English prejudices. To these I attributed your silence about Cecilia, as in the missing let- ter I had told you that she had entered an English family, at Genoa as governess." On the following day, the Marquis Pagano, having heard the news, called at the Vannis with a superb bou- quet-holder, filled with the choicest flowers, for the prima donna, and an elegant bonbonniere for his cousin Cecilia. He looked grave, but seemed flattered with the idea of being master of ceremonies on the approaching occasion. When he left, Carlotta said:-- "Pagano is generous and kind-hearted, but, in common with most of his fellow-nobles, he is a thorough trifler, wasting his time in utter frivolity. May we live," she continued, a glow of enthusiasm lighting up her features, " to see a united Italy, and a class of industrious, ener- getic patriots who will give their time and wealth to their country." "Amen!" responded Stanley; "a few such men as Visconti would leaven the land." Some weeks after, Lucy received the following letter:-- , "PALAZZO VISCONTI. 'DEAREST LtrY:--I am going to marry my prima donna. Start not,--I say my, for she is the first woman in the world to me, the first   ST. CECIzr.            45 I ever truly loved. Your and my Cecilia Vanni is not the singer who has turned the heads of the operatic and musical world; that is her cousin Carlotta, who is engaged to Visconti, and who has just quitted the stage. The likeness between them is marvellous, though not in- explicable. They are the daughters of twin-sisters, who married broth- ers. You have been very kind in writing during my long silence, causedby conflicting duties and feelings. Since I discovered my for- tunate mistake, I have been in such a delirium of hope. and happi- ness that I could not write till my fate was decided. I feel perfectly sure of your entire sympathy in my great good fortune. '"Ever yours, a CHARLES STANLEY." To which Lucy answered:- "DEAR CHARLES: Buy me the best copy of Raphael's St. Cecilia you can find. She shall again be my patron saint. "Yours ecstatically, "P. S. I remember Cecilia's speaking of a cousin who had been at Mrs. Ogilvie's before' her, and of the resemblance they bore to each other." The next note closed the correspondence:-   PALAZZO VISCONTI. "Mr DEAR SISTER: --I still linger here, - the count having kindly postponed his wedding. Carlotta is yery desirous of being married at "the same time with her cousin. John, who has travelled so much with me that he is as accomplished a courier as servant, will go to Eng- land in a few days. Put yourself and your maid under his guidance, and come here as soon as possible, In the chamber allotted to you, I have placed the St. Cecilia.               S."    PRATO FIORITO. 4   PRATO FIORITO. O BEPPO!' cried a cheerful voice, "I cannot wait any longer. It is nearly eleven o'clock, and the field of flowers is a long way off." The speaker was a young American traveller,-who, while descending the steps of a hotel at the Baths of Lucca, looked around upon the beauties of a May morning with evident satisfaction. The lad he addressed was standing at a distance with a couple of donkeys. Having tied them to a post, he was whiling away the time by singing and talking to his dumb companions. On hearing the call, and seeing that the gen- tlemenb had come out prepared for their excursion, he led the animals towards the house, and, holding one of them for Mr. Talbot to mount, he scrambled upon the other with the agility of a monkey. Their road lay, for a time, through the dry bed of a river, and the ascent to the cone-shaped hill, called Prato Fiorito begins at the warm baths, which are on high ground, and lasts for five * Flowering meadow.   4   "   TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFl., miles. It was too early in the season for any but transient visitors, and Talbot enjoyed the absence of fashion and vapid gayety. He was an ardent admirer of Italian scen- ery, and had spent a- week most pleasantly in seeing the environs of Lucca. He had called upon Beppo's services daily, and had formed quite a friendship for his little guide. They soon reached the chestnut groves, through which the rest of their way ran. These woods are a great'beauty and peculiarity of the baths, giving delight to the eye, afford- ing grateful shade, and supplying never-failing food for the peasants who live on bread made from the nut, which, though not agreeable to a Saxon palate, is much relished by them. As they were riding through a dense part of the. forest, they suddenly came upon a lady and gentleman seated on the grass, with their donkeys tethered beside them. A luncheon was spread before them, and, as they approached, they saw the man pour out a glass of wine and hand it to his companion. "I am not thirsty," she said, with a smile. Talbot observed she was very lovely, and, with the courtesy common in Italy, he raised his hat. Her responsive politeness led her to say to her attendant, "Perhaps the gentleman will take some refreshment." The person she addressed was seated with his back to the road, and evidently had not heard the travellers. Suddenly turn- ing round, he stared silently at Talbot, who, bowing his thanks, passed on, when he again heard the man speak.   PRATO FIORITO'*   'If not, thirsty, Emilia, you will drink to  my health?" "Yes," she replied, "and to our permanent reconeilia- tion." The American hastened on, for he felt he was intruding on a domestic scene. In their short interview he had found  time to observe that the young Italian was very lovely; that her accent was southern; that her husband or lover was a very fine-looking man, with none of her charm of manner. "The churl!" he muttered; he need not have feared I should have accepted his hospitality. Who are they?" he asked aloud of the donkey boy. "I never have seen them, signor, but I know their don- keys; they belong to my neighbor Barone. G Good beasts enough, but not as much in demand as these," patting the neck of the one upon which he rode. They arrived soon at the foot of the beautiful green slope leading up the hill, which, on the other side, is a sheer descent of rock, and found the grass enamelled with jon- quils, gentians, and a great variety of other flowers. The supposition is, that the mineral waters, used for the baths, run under this hill, and that, owing to their influence, the  sward is fresh and verdant all the summer, and covered with a constant succession of blossoming plants. "O Beppo, what a happy fellow you are to live in such a beautiful neighborhood! - Don't you enjoy coming here with the gay picnic parties in July and August?"   52      TALES OF EUROPEAN DLIrE. 'I would rather come with the signor, because the ladies require so much assistance. They do not know how to manage my animals. They want to go very fast, and keep me whipping them all the time; and then they like to stay so very, very long, and I do not get home till dark." Oh, ho!' that is a hint to me. Well, I cannot stay late, for I have to pack when I return, as I want to be off for Florence early in the morning." "Will not the signor take me with him?" "I wish I could; but I am soon going to America, where there are no donkeys. What would poor Beppo do?" "No donkeys? I should not like it; but the signor will come here again?" "I hope so, indeed; it is an enchanting place; and now find a nice shelter, and we will lunch; we can have some- thing to eat as well as that niggardly Italian down below." The boy laughed, showing his white teeth, while a gleam in his eye betokened his pleasing anticipation of a share in the contents of the basket which he carried in front of him. The sun was hot, and the trees much more sparse than in the woods through which they had come; but they soon found a group of lofty chestnuts, and Beppo, letting his tired beasts graze, took out sandwiches, cold chicken, bread, fresh butter, and a bottle of wine. Talbot gave him a generous portion, and, retreating to a distance, he seated himself behind a venerable tree, where he was entirely hidden.   PRA'0O FIORITO.        53 "What pleasant, unobtrusive natures these Italians have! " thought his employer, as with a sharpened appetite he did full justice to the repast prepared by his landlady. When he had finished his meal, and rested an hour, he called to Beppo, who had fallen asleep: " Here, my lad,; we do not give boys of your age wine in America, but as you all of you take it- " . When we can get it, signor." " Yes, of course. There is some left for you; it is very light." " A thousand thanks," putting the bottle to his, mouth, adding, after he had drained it, " I am more thirsty than the pretty lady we saw in the wood;" and, packing his basket, they remounted, and trotted towards home. " Of course the lovers, whom we disturbed, have gone," thought Talbot, as he approached the place where he had seen them, " and, no doubt, have made up their quarrel. What a tyrant a man must be to find fault with so lovely a creature ! ' Riding on, he was startled at seeing the lady who occupied his thoughts lying apparently asleep on the grass. She was leaning on her'arm, her face partly shaded by her parasol, which was placed over it.  Caution- ing Beppo to make no noise, he went on as silently as pos- sible, and was hoping he had not disturbed her, when the boy whispered:-                           ' "Where is the gentleman ? There is only one donkey left.'    4       TALES' OF EUROPEAN LIFE. "Are you sure of that?" "Perfectly;" and then, with a frightened expression, "The lady looks as if she had fainted." Talbot instantly turned back, and dismounted. As he approached, the immobility of the figure struck him. Gently removing her paraol, he saw that not only her cheeks but her lips were very pale, and, touching her hands, found they were cold. Lifting her up, to his horror he saw there was every appearance of death. "O signor!" burst forth Beppo, shivering with- terror, "come, and leave her where she is; her husband must have gone for a doctor." "She has been insensible for hours, and, if he had meant to return, he would have been here before this time." A dark suspicion crossed his mind; he took up the bottle, and perceived a strong odor of noyau. He feared foul play, recalling, with a shudder, the solicitations of the man that she should drink, and her pledging him to their reconciliation. "Now, Beppo, our only way is to take her with us. There is a chance that life is not entirely extinct." "I dare not touch a corpse." "Don't be a simpleton. Help me to raise her." And, getting into his saddle, he supported the lifeless girl'in his arms,' the lad following, leading her donkey. By good fortune, they saw no one on their lonely path, and, entering the small village of the warm baths, found   PRATO FIORITO.         55 the English physician at home, quite unobserved, except by peasants at a distance. The doctor said that life was entirely extinct, and, analyzing the contents of the bottle, discovered traces of prussic acid. "Her death," he said, "must have been instantaneous." It was fortunate for Talbot that Beppo was so well known in the village, otherwise, he might have been sub- jected to a disagreeable scrutiny, if not suspicion. He was obliged to postpone his journey, and give his deposition to the podesta, and make arrangements for the fu- neral of the unfortunate victim. The police, never very active in Italian towns, were put on the track of the mur- derer. He was haunted with the idea that, if he had re- mained, her fate might have been postponed or averted. It was ascertained that the couple had arrived the night before at one of the hotels. Nothing of importance was elicited; The chambermaid said she observed the signora was greatly depressed, but that her husband was very kind in his manner towards her. The beautiful stranger was- buried at Talbot's expense. Emilia, the name he had heard her addressed by, was carved on her tombstone, and on leaving the baths he requested Beppo to see that the grave was kept in order, and now and then to throw some flowers upon it. The boy promised faithfully to fulfil his wishes, and his bright eyes were dimmed when he bade his kind patron farewell, whose * Mayor.   6i       TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. future plans being altered by the unpleasant adventure he had met with, instead of returning to America went to Seccia, to pass the hot months, not liking to leave Italy while there was a chance of bringing the unknown criminal to justice. He spent the winter in Rome, and the follow- ing spring revisited Florence. While there, he suddenly determined to go to Lucca and find out if the police had made any discoveries. In a few hours he was standing by the grave of Emilia. Beppo had remembered his duties. Everything was in good order, and a fresh chaplet of flowers was hung on the- tombstone. As he looked at the date he saw that, by a curious coinci- dence, this was the anniversary of her burial, and that the lad must have known it. When they met, the surprise and joy of the boy were very great, and when Talbot told him he was" going to engage his services for some weeks, his delight was un- bounded. The podest' assured him that a thorough search had been made for the assassin, without any result. This decided him to return home the following month. In the mean time, being a good pedestrian, his plan was to take Beppo, with his donkeys, and explore the mountains about Pistoia, the Baths of Morte Cating, and other objects of interest. With a basket of provisions, and a travelling-bag, they could walk or ride up the hills, descending in the evening to lodge at an inn, or a peasant's hut, where liber- ality and courtesy always insured a welcome. In this way   PRATO FIORITO.   1      57 , very satisfactory survey of the old battle-grounds of the Romans, and the more modern haunts of the Bian ch and Neri was made, besides becoming acquainted with the hab- its and manner of life common among the small farmers and laborers. Finding himself in the neighborhood of Valombrosa, he determined to go there. After a delightful ride through the shady forest, they arrived at the monastery, where the monks received them, as is their wont, very hospitably v Talbot made a hurried toilet, to be ready for the six- o'clock repast. When summoned by a young novice, he passed into the corridor, where he met Beppo, who made a gesture, showing he wished to speak to him. Falling a little back, the boy pointed to a monk in advance of them, whispering, "Signor, e lui"' . Whom?"-- "C The man we saw in the wood." Talbot instantly followed the person designated, and, as they entered the refectory; contrived to take a seat appo- site him at table.  There certainly was an extraordinary resemblance. The monk was very much thinner and paler, and his tonsured head and priestly dress gave him an entirely different air. Their interview had been a very short one in the forest; but the horrible event had stamped -the features of the assassin indelibly upon his memory. It seemed highly im- *"It is he."   TALES OF EUROPEAY LIFE. probable that he should have sought refuge so near the scene of his crime, and yet he knew that monasteries shel- tered many criminals. The likeness was strong enough to make him uneasy, and, as every now and then he glanced furtively across the table, their eyes met, and he fancied there was a look of answering recognition. Had it not been for this circumstance, the meal would have passed pleasantly. The fathers are very skilful in cookery, and pay great attention to strangers. The abbot was an agree- able, cheerful old man, and did the honors of the table with grace and dignity. Towards the end of the dinner, he ordered wine to be placed before his guest, saying, "they did not drink it, but kept it for visitors." Suddenly the words which had haunted Talbot so long found utterance. "I am not thirsty," he said, looking at the priest oppo- site, whose cheek blanched, confirming his suspicions, "but will certainly not refuse to drink your health," bowing to the abbot and monks," and yours, particularly," he added, looking fixedly at his vis-a-vis; "if I mistake not, we have met before. I passed you on my way to the Prato Fiorito; when I returned, I was sorry to find the lady-" "Help!" interrupted the abbot, "help for Father Emilius! he is ill; lead him to his chamber." When he had gone, Talbot inquired how long he had been in failing health.   PRATO FIOIITO.   "He was a remarkably robust man, when he came here, about a year since. He is too severe with himself, doing penance most rigidly." At this moment, the priest who had helped the sick man away returned, saying that Father Emilius wished to see the stranger, and Talbot, following him, found himself in a small cell, where on a wooden couch lay the monk. "Shut the door," he said, in a weak voice; "I have something to say to you." Talbot did as he was requested, and, seating himself, sig- nified his readiness to listen. "I have sent for you, seeing you know my crime, to beg you not to betray me. Not that I fear the hand of justice; death already claims me for his own. My life is given in expiation of my wickedness as completely as if I were to die on the scaffold. Look at that knotted scourge, and see these shrivelled limbs. I have taken a fierce pleasure in reducing my body by fasts and tortures until it is fit for nothing but the grave. I have revenged my sin upon my- self. I heard a dead girl had been found in the woods by a stranger, and buried. Are you the man? If so, tell me how my Emilia looked."  Here a violent fit of sobbing interrupted him. Talbot, who, in the impatience of his horror at the first sight of the murderer, had found it difficult to command himself, now, seeing his wretched condition, told him the  60       TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. circumstances of his finding his beautiful victim, and her funeral. The monk, who by a great effort had become calm, invoked blessings upon him. "You confess, then, to your shocking crime?" "Yes; you are the only human being to whom I will confess it. The abbot shall never know from me what a miscreant he has sheltered." "Nor from me,') said Talbot, emphatically. "God knows my remorse, my struggles, and my peni- tence. I firmly believe he has forgiven me. I believe, also, that Emilia looks down upon me with pity.:" "What could have been your motives for such wick- edness?" "The motives which lead to so many crimes: love and its consequence, jealousy. I led a wild youth in Messina, spending most of my days with vicious companions. At that time, brigandage was common, and I was very 'suc- cessful in hunting down the brigands, and shooting them. My mind became familiarized with scenes of violence. and pernicious excitement. I was engaged to 'milia; her parents naturally objected to my attentions, and, to prevent my seeing her, sent her to a convent for shelter, wishing to marry her to a rich suitor, a man who was my inferior in point of family and education. To escape this fate, she contrived to elude "the vigilance of the nuns, and eloped with me to Naples, where we were married.   There   PRATO FIOPRTO.         61 Emilia, who was always admired for the gentleness of her manners as well as for the beauty of her person, became the object of attention to Cettini, a young Neapolitan. I' fancied she encouraged him, and, mad with jealousy took her to Florence. .One morning, I surprised her reading a letter containing most ardent protestations of love from my rival. Her confusion was great, and she protested with tears that she had never given him an excuse for his con- duct. I might have believed her had not a friend told me that Cettini boasted my wife preferred him to me. This decided me to punish her perfidy. Pretending to forget the past, I brought her to Lucca, and, not anticipating meet- ing with any one so early in the season, I laid my plans for an entirely successful and secret revenge, determining after- wards to return and stab the Neapolitan to the heart. After her death, which was instantaneous, I found a letter in her pocket for Cettini, telling him never to write or speak to her again; that he had entirely destroyed her hap- pinessfor that she was suspected of not loving one who had her whole heart, and from whom her allegiance had never swerved; that she was afraid to speak to me on the subject, but'felt convinced that if he never would recall his existence to me, I should soon learn her entire devoe tion. This brought me to my senses. In vain I endeav-' ored to restore her to life. After an hour of agony, the instinct of .self-preservation led me to escape. I came over the hills to this monastery, and took the vows, assuming the  62       TALES OX EUROPEAN LIFE. name of Father Rmilius, so that every time I was called I should remember my crime. And now, go, I must spend the night in prayer and penance. Will you touch a murderer?"- holding out his emaciated hand. Talbot took it, and saying, "God have mercy on your soul!" left the cell. In vain he sought sleep, and, after a restless night, was glad to hear the matin bell, summoning the priests to their morning meal, and find himself no longer alone with his gloomy fancies. While at table, a monk, hurriedly entering, said, "Father Emilius is dead in his cell. I found him pros- trate at the foot of the cross. He was quite stiff and cold, and must have been dead for hours." ,c Toll the bell,J' said the abbot, rising. Talbot rose also, and, thanking him warmly for his hos- pitality, said he would intrude no longer. "We must make arrangements for the burial of our deceased brother, and perform masses for his soul. ' I have often thought," he said, lowering his voice, "that Father Emilius must have committed some great crime." Here he looked earnestly at Talbot; but, on his not replying, added, "If so, it is perhaps better not to know it. God knows all, and can forgive the worst of sins, when sin- cerely repented of." "Farewell. Benedictus sis!"   SALVI AND CESARE.  ,         *               ,  -)      SALVI AND CESARE. I. u' The winds like anthems roll; They are chanting solemn masses, Singing, 'Pray for this poor soul; Pray, -pray! '" - Longfellow. MANY years since, when the present century was in its youth, a, young man (the only occupant of a luxuriously furnished room in Baltimore) was seated by a glowing fire, absorbed by his thoughts. It was a blustering winter's night; the wind howled, snow, sleet, and hail beat against the window-panes as if demanding admittance; but he heeded not the storm. Some great and painful anxiety evidently oppressed him. Rising, from staring blankly in the fire, he restlessly paced the 'oom, then apprpWhing the table, opened a book, shut it without having seen its contents, and resumed his hurried walk. An hour was spent in this way, when at length the door softly opened, and a middle-aged woman, coming in, said: -- 5               65   "      TALBS OF E1ROPAN .LIFE. "A fine girl, sir." How is Mrs. Walsh?  "Very, very feeble." "Send the doctor here." The physician gave no comfort to the apprehensive husband. "Can I not see her?" "Yes; I was coming for you, Follow me; " ahd, ascend-' ing the stairs, he opened a door, closing it noiselessly after him, and Mr. Walsh was left alone with all he most loved on earth. Life was ebbing fast away from his young wife. A wan smile flickered over her features on seeing him, and, putting her wasted hand in his, she saide in faint accentss "I wish Mary were here. She is sent for, but I shall not see her. Give her the baby, and tell her my last wish is that she shall bring up my child." Sobs broke from the tortured man. "Do not leave me, Ellen!" 'u You will call baby Ellen" she resumed; adding, with difficulty, "Life is very sweet; you, love, have made it so - but - " she lightened her hold on his hand for a moment, and moved her lips as if in prayer, butfshe did not speak again, and in a few hours passed peacefully away. When the nurse put the child into its father's arms he exclaimed, O my God, what an exchange!   Give me strength to drink this bitter cup; " but strength was not   SALVI JUITO CESAKS       67 SLrX Ard elXRsz.       67 granted him. In time he resumed his business avocations, but nothing prospered with the broken-hearted man. His speculations, which had always been prudential, became wild, his judgment forsook him, and he soon followed his wife to the grave, leaving Ellen with a modest competence, in place of the large fortune he expected for his heiress. Mrs. Walsh's sister Mary had married a New York banker, and her husband's welcoming the little stranger to his childless home made a pleasure of the sacred duty which devolved upon her. When Ellen was eight years old, Mr. Black was ad- vised by his physicians to take a voyage for his health, which seemed to be failing. He travelled with his wife and daughter (as he always called her) a year, and, finding on his return that he could not live comfortably in his native climate, he again took hi small family to Italy, and es- tablished a banking-house in Florence.  At intervals of two and three years they returned in the summer to Amer- ica, to leave in the autumn, with the birds, for milder shores; but after several visits this was discontinued. Mrs. Black was a true American at heart; but, beings woman of taste and education, she appreciated fully the beauties of art and nature by which she was surrounded Next to her husband's health and Ellen's education her object in life was making herself useful to her country-peo pie, although she did not confine her charities and good offices to them. Through Mr. Black' liberality, who de-    TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. lighted in dispensing the wealth with which fortune had favored him, she was enabled to make her house a social focus for all that was bright in Florence. No one had ac- cess there but those whose characters bore the test of scru- tiny; and many a titled English woman, accustomed froin her position to brave public opinion with impunity, and reckless American belles, who lowered their standard of right when away from home, in vain expected her hospital- ity. Many young sculptors and painters, without money or friends, owed all their enjoyment to her kind attentions, and their success in their profession to an opportune order, or a chance to display their finished works in her rooms. She lived in one of the superb old palaceswhich formerly belonged to Eliza Buonaparte, the Grand Duchess of Lucca, where, in the winter, American furnaces and chimneys ren- dered the lofty rooms comfortable, where aviaries and greenhouse plants made one forgetful of the keen tra- montana without, and wadded carpets subdued the chill of the stone floors. A spacious hall, in whose niches stood casts from the antique and modern statues, led to drawing- rooms where hung genuine works by the old masters, clever copies and paintings by young artists of merit, to whom encouragement was life. Wealth, guided by a benevolent hand and discriminating brain, is a great power for good. Her salon was for many years the resort of travellers,   artists, wits, scientific men, and amateur musicians.   In the course of time, Ellen appeared at these soirees, bearing her part in the concerts, listening to the conversa- tion, and gradually unfolding in a genial atmosphere, like a plant that is so situated as to feel all the ripening effects of sun, dew, and rain, shielded from bitter winds and bane- ful atmospheric influences. Endowed with youth, health, and beauty, caressed at home, all her wishes gratified, and her tastes fostered, she sailed on the summer sea of life, without even the distant threatening of a tempest. I.  "Brothers in art; a friendship so complete Portioned in halves between us, that we grew The fable of the city where we dwelt." - Tennyson. AMONG the many artists who assembled at Mrs. Black's, the two most prominent in Florentine society, and the most promising in their art, were Cesare, a landscape, and Salvi, a portrait and historical painter. Both young men, they had come from different parts of Italy about five years previous, and had taken studios in the same building, a decayed convent formerly belonging to the church of Santa Croce.  Entirely different, their differ-   70      TAWSR OF XUR PF   L IFE. ences drew them nearer together, while sympathy in their profession tightened the bond. Both were so successful that there was no pretext for jealousy to mar their brother- hood. Cesare was a southern Italian from Naples, full of fire, dark, impetuous, eloquent, fit inhabitant of a volcanic soil. Ardent in his art, ardent in friendship, he seemed on the point of becoming ardent in love. Salvi was a Lombard. Tall and fair, his blue eyes wore a look of calm contemplation which inspired confidence. When they were fixed upon Ellen, they expressed a more intense devotion than the' piercing, brilliant, restless glances of his friend. Men of much wider culture than the mere hack artists whose whole lives are given to earning a bare subsistence, they were enabled by a small competence and constant orders to continue a culture based on a careful educa- tion. They .frequently spent their disengaged evenings in reading to Mrs. Black. Cesare delighted in Ariosto, and Salvi in Dante. The former read Alfieri as if his fiery heart beat in his bosom; while Salvi, with a calm, earnest dignity, did justice to Tasso. Having also a very sunny disposition, and a keen sense of humor, he gave full expres- sion to Goldoni's comedies. The Neapolitan touched the guitar skilfully, twanging a spirited accompaniment to his native melodies, while the @.   SALVI AND CESARE.        71 ences drew them near trtogether, while sympathy in their profession tightened the bond. Both were so successful that there was no pretext for jealousy to mar their brother- hood. Cesare was a southern Italian from Naples, full of fire, dark, impetuous, eloquent, fit inhabitant of a volcanic soil. Ardent in his art, ardent in friendship, he seemed on the point of becoming ardent in love. Salvi was a Lombard. Tall and fair, his blue eyes wore a look of calm contemplation which inspired confidence. When they were fixed upon Ellen, they expressed a more intense devotion than the' piercing, brilliant, restless glances of his friend. Men of much wider culture than the mere hack artists whose whole lives are given to earning a bare subsistence, they were enabled by a small competence and constant orders to continue a culture based on a careful educa- tion. They .frequently spent their disengaged evenings in reading to Mrs. Black. Cesare delighted in Ariosto, and Salvi in Dante. The former read Alfieri as if his fiery heart beat in his bosom; while Salvi, with a calm, earnest dignity, did justice to Tasso. Having also a very sunny disposition, and a keen sense of humor, he gave full expres- sion to Goldoni's comedies. The Neapolitan touched the guitar skilfully, twanging a spirited accompaniment to his native melodies, while the    72       TALXS OF EUROPEAN LIFE. the artist is blamed, either for flattery, or the reverse, and the sitter is brought into more notice than is agreeable." "That last remark makes me kiss the rod," said Salvi, bowing to Mrs. Black, but looking at Ellen afterwards. "Were you a young artist, Signor Salvi, and I thought it would really be of use to you in your profession, my scruples would banish. Why do you not select a subject from your poets?" "I have often wished to do so; but the richness and variety of the scenes make a choice difficult  I will not certainly go back to the father of poetry, for Flaxman's beautiful designs render any other delineator an intruder. Dante calls for a modern Michel Angelo. Tasso presents comparatively an unexplored field and a very luxuriant oneI." "But," said Ellen, " why not choose from Ariosto?" Cesare's face brightened. "I had actually thought of it," he exclaimed. ' "I have often painted in imagination," said Mrs. Black, "the flight of Angelica, leaving Rinaldo and the Saracen in combat. It seems equally adapted for an artist who would wish to give prominence to the figures, or one who would introduce them as mere accessories to a landscape, for Ariosto's descriptions of shady dells, bosky glades, and arbors are as suggestive to a painter as his groups of figures. It would give such an opportunity for picturesque costume, and the timid, beautiful girl, turning back, as she   SALVI AND CESARE.         73 . rode away, would be in fine contrast with the warlike knights." "My dear madame," said Salvi, "if your hand could obey your brain, we should have no chance of winning the prize." It was evident that Mrs. Black was thinking more of Salvi than his friend, towards the end of her remarks, and as Ariosto was Cesare's favorite poet, and he had so often en- tertained them with extracts from the Orlando, Ellen ven- tured to remark, a I am sure, Aunt Mary, Signor Cesare's foliage would appear to the greatest advantage in the picture you describe, and we have enjoyed his readings so much it would be delightful to see a reminiscence of them on the walls of the gallery." Cesare's face beamed, and, looking at Salvi, he said, "A capital idea this; suppose we draw lots for the sub- ject." '"Agreed." Ellen threw the glass balls from the solitaire board into a small China vase, saying, "The one who takes out the green shall paint the picture." "And," said Mrs. Black, holding out two slips of paper, the ends concealed in her palm,!" the one who draws the. longest shall have the first chance." They drew simultaneously, and Cesare's paper gave him the advantage. Ellen held the vase towards him, just moving the cover to admit the fingers. The white ball   74       TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. appeared in his hand. A sudden flash of anger leaped into his eyes, but, instantly calming himself, he said to his friend, "It is yours, and I am sure you will satisfy Mrs. Black." So saying, he walked towards his host, who was at the other side of the room. The look in his eyes did not escape Salvi, who, following him, whispered, "My dear fellow, I am perfectly willing to yield this subject to you. I am convinced you will do full justice to it.". "By no means; I can easily choose another; you know we have three months in which to paint." "Then I will begin my picture to-morrow," said Salvi, returning to Ellen. "May I," he added, in a low tone, "make Angelica resemble a young friend of mine? Not enough like her to cause gossip, but enough so to inspire me to do something worthy of her suggestion." "Certainly," she answered, coloring slightly; - "but I think you will be able to find a much better mo'del." When he had gone, Cesare took his vacant chair, saying, "I was disappointed at first, for Ariosto is associated with very happy hours; now I think I will paint the Ap- pennines and Arno, as seen from the Cascine." "Is not that a very common subject?." "Very; but a most, tempting one, and one of endless variety. You must remember that a few yards of differ- ence in the artist's stand-point gives different forms to the mountains, and that every hour of the day colors their   SALVI AND CESARE.         75 summits with different tints. With the boats on the river, i the foliage in the foreground, and the villas on the neigh- boring hills, I can fill a large canvas to advantage, and make a more ambitious attempt than I have done before." "Beautiful, I am sure it will be." "Do you know," I resumed he, " why I have chosen this subject? I shall paint fron the spot where we first met; it has been consecrated ground to me ever since." Ellen retired to her room that night, with the unpleas- ant consciousness that her two friends were on the point of becoming her lovers. On weighing her own feelings carefully, she found the scales hung evenly balanced by friendship, for love had not, as yet, entered either. The gradual change in the manners of the artists towards her niece had not escaped Mrs. Black's watchful eye, and, when she was left alone with her husband, she confided her suspicions to him. "Have we been imprudent," she asked, "in receiving these young men on such an intimate footing?" ' I should certainly prefer Ellen to marry an American; never having liked a union between persons of entirely dif- ferent nationality, language, and religion." "With regard to language, Italian is as familiar to her as her native tongue, and many of her friends, and some of her relations, are Baltimore and Washington Catholics." "Should she be fated to marry an Italian, two more cultivated, honorable, genial men could not be found; but how is she to choose? I should be very much puzzled to   76       TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE.    . do it for her," and he hummed "How happy could I be with either--' "You, however, prefer Salvi, and, as Mrs. Vere is unmistakably eprise with Cesare, it might not be safe to make an enemy of a widow bewitched." "She is really, by force of circumstances," replied Mrs. Black, who took the matter more seriously, "expatriated; should she now return, she would make friends, of course, but they would not be the friends of her youth. It might, also, be a dangerous experiment, as she inherits some of her mother's delicacy." "True, and then, to be selfish, we should be childless. Why cannot she like young Barrett, that gentlemanly Philadelphian, who is so much pleased with her? But," dropping his bantering tone, "Ellen is young, and I sin- cerely hope she will not marry yet." "I hope not; but if she should, I think, by continuing here, she can be as true an American as at home. Loyal, refined, and generous representatives are of great use in foreign cities. As long as Italy continues to be the mother of the arts, our students will flock here, and a person of Ellen's tastes and capabilities can be of great service to them. Do you not think so?" "You have proved all this, Mary," he replied, kissing her forehead; " if she follow your example she will, indeed; be an honor to her country." "Her ability to do good," she said, returning his em- brace, " will depend very much upon -her husband."   SALVI AND CESARE.         " "I.  "When the warm sun, that brings Seed time and harvest, has returned again, 'Tis sweet to visit the still wood, where springs The first flower of the plain." -Longfellow. THE studios of the two friends, as we have said, were in a building formerly called the cloister of a convent belong- ing to the cathedral of Santa Croce, but which had been used for many years for secular purposes. Salvi's was im- mediately adjoining the church, into which it led by a door, the key of which was with the. Sacristan.   In the room   was a lay figure, dressed in armor, with a Moorish cap, evidently alternately the model of the Saracen and Rinaldo. . A number of sketches of heads, many of them resembling Ellen, studies of horses and foliage, were about the, walls and  tables, showing-that the artist had worked diligently on his picture.   On an easel was a highly fin- ished portrait of Lord. Bute, who, having  seen the picture from Ariosto during   his sittings, had engaged it at a very remunerative price. As Salvi put in a few finishing touches to the hair of Angelica, a  pleased expression stole over his features. He had been successful in making a likeness to Ellen which would be 'recognized by her intimate friends, but not by strangers. The features were hers, but    78      TALES OP EUROPEAN LIFE. the coloring was entirely different. What he was most sat- isfied with was, that he had given his heroine the shy, startled look which was 'called forth on Miss Walsh's face by his request the evening the subject was proposed. At this moment Cesare called out to him from the other room, "Come in here, and see if you do not think I have im- proved the spur ofthe Apennines, on which the sun is shining." "Beautiful," said Salvi, going in; "you must have dipped your pencil in the sun's rays. Do not retouch it, you-cannot improve, and may do harm; but make haste, we must take the next train to Lucca; you know we are engaged to dine with the Blacks." "I have not forgotten it; there is the picnic, also, to mor- row, which Mrs. Vere has arranged." "Yes. I must cover my picture, and will meet you on the Square." So saying, Salvi returned to his studio, and hung a light piece of gauze over the projecting frame of his picture, to keep the dust from the fresh touches of paint, put his sketches in a little order, and went out into the piazza. Cesare joined him almost immediately, and they walked to the cars. A moment before starting, Mrs. Vere, with a party of friends, drove up, and entered the train in great haste. "I have most narrowly escaped losing our dinner at Mrs. Black's," she. said; "but we found so much to look at in Santa Croce that we lingered beyond prudence." /   SALVI AND CESARE.        79 As they neared Lucca, Salvi, feeling in his pocket for his purse, missed the key of his studio. "I must have left my door unlocked, and shall have to return." "Nonsense, my dear fellow," said Cesare; "it is per- fectly safe to do so." "By no means; there have been several picture robber- ies lately. Ciacchi's studio was entered last week, and yesterday he told me he saw one of his landscapes on Mrs. Thomas's wall. She had bought it at a shop that morn- ing." "But," expostulated Mrs. Vere, "I cannot spare you from our party; we start early in the morning for Monte Castagno. A much stronger argument, however, is, that Mrs. Black expects you to dine and stay at her villa." "Great temptations, I allow. Be kind enough to make my excuses, and I will join you to-morrow at the place of rendezvous, if not before." And he hurried out of the cars at Lucca, taking a re- turn train to Florence. The premature heat had driven the Blacks to Lucca towards the end of April. They were established in a large villa on the hill-side, near the old palace. Ellen found her life there delightful. She sketched daily, and enjoyed her picturesque rides about the Italian Switzer- land. Having made all the arrangements for the next day's picnic, she was sitting in a deep bay-window, en- tirely cut off from the parlor by a curtain drawn across    80      PALES OF EUROPEAN HLFE. the recess. She was reading Manfred, and after two hours of perfect quiet, sat, with: her book closed, in a pleasant rev- erie. The memory of her previous summer's visit to Mont Blanc enabled her to draw a comparison between the beau- ties she saw from the window, the horizon bounded by low mountains, the foreground filled in by chestnut groves, with the Lima running like a thread of silver through them, and the ragged, snow-capped Alpine summits described by the poet. She determined to take out her water-color sketches the next day, and with their aid try to illustrate parts of the poem. Then her thoughts wandered to Cesare, and she felt that he was capable of doing justice to the word-paint- ings of Byron. She remembered his description of the poet, whom he had Hen when as a boy he was studying at the Pisan University. She would read him the poem, trans- lating the passages he could not understand. He had some knowledge of English, and had frequently applied to her for help; but since the evening when his admiration had been so evident, she had not felt so much at her ease with him. Her day-dreams were suddenly broken by Mrs. Vere's loud voice:- ' I am glad to have an opportunity of confessing, now that we are alone. I saw your picture for the exhibition to-day; it is beyond my expectation." "But," replied a voice which she recognized as Cesae's, "I did not wish it to be seen by my friends until I had chosen a proper light for it at the Academy."   SALI YAND CESARE.        81 C I knew that," she rejoined, laughing: " but as I had an opportunity, I availed myself of it. The exhibition is in two days, so that it makes no difference. I took a party of nouveaux arrivees to Santa Croce, and, remembering there was an entrance from the church, I left my fellow-pilgrims at the tomb of Dante, and bribed the custode to unlock the door of Salvi's studio, knowing you brotherly artists kept no barriers between your rooms. When once in there, a sudden impulse led me," - here she lowered her voice, and their conversation became in a measure confidential, before Ellen had courage to show herself. She was greatly per- plexed to know what to do, and lingered, hoping they would go away without discovering she was there. The necessity, however, of dressing for dinner, compelled her to interrupt their tete-d-tete, and her hand was on the curtain when Mrs. Vere again spoke in audible tones: - "I would move heaven and earth, could I secure you the prize. Why did not Salvi exhibit a portrait? Then you would have had no rival; but you will be victor; yes, I am confident of it." Then followed, apparently, some expostulations from Cesare, and she resumed, in a lower tone: I My party had scarcely time to miss me, and I did not see a human be- ing, with the exception of a workman, who was going out of Salvi's studio by the door that leads on to the square, and I feel sure he did not notice me." Fortunately, at this moment, Mrs. Black's maid came 6  82       TALES' OF EUROPEAN LIFE. in to show Mrs. Vere into a dressing-room, and Cesare to the library. Ellen darted from her hiding-place, and, rushing up- stairs, found her dinner dress prepared by her thoughtful maid, who was impatiently waiting for her. "Oh, how unfortunate it was, my being there!" she thought, while Rosa's skilful hands braided her sunny hair. "I really believe that gay, noisy, handsome, good- hearted, thoughtless widow is in love with Signor Cesare;" and, laughing merrily at the idea, she ran down to the drawing-room with recovered spirits. It was a lovely morning, early in May, when the picnic party rode into the chestnut groves, in the immediate vi- cinity of the baths. The sun shone through the thickly matted foliage, throwing flecks of light on carriages, sad- dle-horses, ponies, garden-chairs, servants with hampers of provisions- slung on mules, and some active pedestrians bringing up the rear. It lighted up no more ingenuous, interesting face than Ellen Walsh's, who was trotting, on a donkey, by the side of her aunt's barouche.  Cesare, mounted in the same way, rode on the other side; the nar- rowness of the road often compelling them to follow the carriage. After proceeding about a mile, the party arrived at a highway and a saddle-path. Those who preferred a smooth drive, or a gallop, took the former, which led by a circuitous way nearly to the top of Monte Castagno. To those who liked climbing up a rugged ascent on a sure-   SALVI AND CESARE.        , 83 footed quadruped, or being carried up in chairs, or using the "tandem nature had given them," I the latter was the most attractive. Amongst these was Mrs. Vere, who, perfectly equipped, seemed to enjoy the occasion. As the party divided, she called out, looking back, and whipping her donkey vigorously, "I prefer scrambling, and defy any one to reach the top of the hill before me.' "Do you not hear the challenge, Signor Cesare?." said Ellen, smiling; " do not let me detain you." !"An unwilling victim," remarked her aunt, as he rode away. "Now, Ellen, if you had a fine-spirited horse, you might really feel like Angelica in these lovely groves-, but good-by for the present; ride after your party.' And off they-drove. This last speech filled Ellen's romantic brain with a childish idea of hiding herself, and creating a little amusing panic. She rode behind a thick clump of trees, expecting them to call or ride back for her. She waited some time; but no sound reached her. Surprised, she came out of her covert, and found the woods hid the riders entirely. It was now her turn to feel perplexed. Like an errant damsel she hastened on, and soon came to a fork in the road; but on neither of the narrow ways could she see any- thing moving. She urged her donkey to greater speed on the path she supposed the right one, but, coming to a long, bare vista, where there was no trace of her party, she turned back, and took the other; with the same result. She   84       TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. now called loudly, but heard nothing in reply, save the birds, who sang and twittered about her in the most unsym- pathizing manner. Retracing her steps to the carriage- road, she did not dare to move again, deciding it was safer to remain at the junction, so that if one from either party should come back for her she would be found. She dis- mounted, tied her donkey to a tree, allowing him length of bridle for grazing, and seated herself in the shade. The Lucchesi are a very civil and harmless peasantry, and, though her situation was not an agreeable one, she had no apprehensions. Tired with her ride, early rising, and the -eat, she yielded to the drowsiness which stole over her, and, closing her eyes, fell asleep with the comforting idea that Salvi must pass that way. How long her slum- ber lasted she did not know. Sounds of coming hoofs and exclamations awoke her, and, opening her eyes, she saw her two friends, Salvi, who had just arrived from Florence, and Cebare, who, by a curious chance, had returned in search of her at the same time. She started to her feet with a feeling of relief, and, mounting, told her adventures. "It was not pleasant acting Angelica, I assure you." "I never want to hear that name again," Salvi ex- claimed. "Yesterday, on returning, I found my picture ruined, large blotches of green paint were daubed over it. in' many places, and,I' turning to Cesare, who looked aghast at the news, "it must have been done with your paint, for   SALVI AND CESA RE.        85 I had none like it in my room; it is that vivid hue which you use so much in foliage." "Certainly, I prepared some the day before; but what did you do?" "I used turpentine, but with no good results." "Let me return, and see if I can effect anything." "Thank you, my dear fellow; it is too late. I never saw paint resist turpentine'before. The exhibition is the dav after to-morrow. As to repairing the mischief by painting over the daubs, I can assure you it would take a month to restore the picture to what it was before." Ellen was very much agitated. "Who could have been so wicked?" she asked, and the tears stood in her eyes. "I can form no definite idea, although I have a little sus- picion of Giuseppe, whom I discharged yesterday morning for impertinence; and now, with a thousand thanks for your sympathy, let me beg you not to mention this acoi- dent to any one." They rode sadly on, Ellen filled with profound pity. She was pleased with Cesare's friendly offers, but more pleased with Salvi's calm bearing. She begged to have her uncle and aunt taken into their confidence, for a particular reason. As they neared the summit of Monte Castagno, Ellen joined Mrs. Black, who was on the outskirts of the party anxiously awaiting her. She told her what had happened, and begged she would allow Salvi to exhibit her portroit.   86      TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. Mr. Black, being summoned to the counsel, cordially granted her wish, thinking it the only reparation that could be made. He advised Salvi on no account to put the affair into the hands of the Florentine police. "This is never productive of good," he said. "Time may unravel the mystery. Have you an enemy? ' !"Not that I am aware. My man, Giuseppe, seemed in a great rage when I dismissed him; but the rage of an Italian burns out soon, you know;" turning to Cesare, "It must have been done after we left the studio,- all owing to my forgetfulness about the key." Here Ellen expected Cesare to mention what Mrs. Vere had said of a workman's going from the studio. As he did not speak, she asked, "Cannot one get in from Santa Croce?" "By asking the custode to unlock the entrance. My door being stupidly left open, that trouble was needless; but Mrs. Vere seems impatient at our prolonged consulta- tion." They joined the party, who were taking their places round the cloth which the servants had laid on the grass, near a thick laurel-hedge, overhung by trees. Mrs. Vere sat at the head, requesting Mr. Black to be her vis-&-vis. She placed Cesare on her right, Mrs. Black on her left, and Salvi between her and Ellen. There were American artists and American travellers, with their pretty and graceful countrywomen; Lord Bute, Dr. Green, a high-church   SALVI AND CESARE.        87 Englishman, the plump and blooming Miss Greenes, his sisters; besides representatives of the Corsinis, Capponis, and other old Florentine families; making in all a very pleasant, piquant social hotch-potch. It was a merry occasion, and when at dessert Lord Bute drank to the success of one of the two artists at the coming exhibition (there being no other competitors present) Ellen said in a low tone to Salvi, that now, as he was to exhibit a portrait, they might both win prizes, as they had before. "What a pleasant custom that was formerly," remarked Mrs. Vere, " of crowning victors with laurels!" "Yes," replied Cesare; 'to be crowned by one's lady- love would outweigh the victory." 'With such an abundance of material in our immediate neighborhood," said Mr. Black, " why not do it in antici- pation?" "Or by retrospection," suggested Mr. Barrett; "if the crowns are made, we will find objects for them." The laurel-hedges were instantly plucked, and skilful fingers wove a. number of wreaths. Mrs. Vere crowned Cesare and Salvi. The latter, saying it was an embarrassing distinction, begged Ellen to wear one, and Cesare asked Mrs. Vere to do the same. Anna Greene, a buxom, young romp, tried to drop one upon the clerical brow of her brother, who, dexterously evading the honor, moved her arm towards her neighbor, Mr. Barrett, upon whose head the wreath fell. All the young people present followed the example,   TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. and a party of bacchantes were speedily improvised. Lord Bute made a thyrsus and put it into Cesare's hand; who, with his black curls twining round the green-leaves encir- cling his head, his bright eyes, and animated expression, made no bad representative of the god of wine. Songs and toasts followed. At length came a lull, and Dr. Greene took advantage of it. "What charming weather!" he said, "though warm for the season. I hope the rain has not forgotten Old England, or her crops will suffer; we have had no spring, no dampness, only dry heat." "I think the weather there must have been very much the same," answered Mr. Barrett; " for Punch wittily ob- serves that winter has jumped into summer without e'er a spring!" "Perhaps," added Mr. Black, "summer may jump back into winter without e'er a fall." When thm laugh had subsided, "What a poetical word that is your Americans have for autumn!" said Mrs. Vere. "For my part," replied Dr. Greene, "I much prefer the old English word of autumn, derived from the Latin auctumnus, taken from augeo, to increase. We must give the palm to sense over poetry and adhere to the original word." "Fall is certainly a more original word," retorted young Barrett, "as it is more unique, and with regard to sense, as it means the fall of the leaf, there is no lack of that." * * -  * ' '          ^  .  -"   "The expression has been used by all Christendom," continued the doctor, not paying any attention to the re- mark, "to designate a most important event." "Newton's discovery?" asked Barrett, mischievously. The high churchman withdrew into his neck-cloth, say- ing, testily, "Not the fall of the apple, but the fall by the apple." "Dr. Greene," called out Mr. Black, seeing the social pot boiling a little too fast, "here is some California cham- pagne I received a few days since; give me your opinion of it." They soon rose and wandered about the woods, leaving the relics of the feast for the servants, who, while they were refreshing themselves, compared masters, mistresses, and horseflesh. When the party dispersed, Cesare, after acting as Mrs. Vere's right-hand man, could do no other- wise than wait upon her home, and Salvi, putting Ellen into her saddle, led her donkey down the steep hill-side, and then trotted home with her to the baths. In a month's time it was decided that the two friends were again victors at the exhibition. No one beyond the few who had been taken into the secret knew anything of the cause why Salvi had not exhibited his large picture.  Lord Bute was told, because he had engaged it. In vain he had begged the artist to restore it. It hung with its face to the wall, and the singular event was becoming a thing of the past with the Blacks. Not so, however, with   TALES OF' EUROPEAN LIFE. Ellen; the mystery perplexed her sorely, and in vain she tried to solve it. The slight intimations she had received from Mrs. Vere's conversation, to which she had been an involuntary listener, honor forbade her revealing. The fact that both she and a workman had been in'the studio after the artists left, was an important one, but she could not mention it to Salvi, neither could she talk to Cesare about it; but why had not Cesare mentioned it?   Was it to shield Mrs. Vere? From what? Her entering the studio was a foolish freak; but why, if nothing more than foolish, should not Salvi's best friend have told him that a man was seen going out of the room? Was his silence from un- willingness to convict Giuseppe, or because he suspected Mrs. Vere of some complicity in the mischief?   This seemed to Ellen impossible; but though when she reasoned with herself she acknowledged it was impossible, she did not like to see the widow, or hear her voice, and avoided her as much as was feasible. On the afternoon of the day when the prizes were given Ellen received the following note:-- "I am again fortunate enough to have secured the prize for land- scape painting at the Academy. It will be valueless unless you will crown my life with your love, and in this way fulfil the most ardent wish of        "Your devoted   ' GIORGIO C;   Ellen did not hesitate for a moment about her   ESARE." answer.   SALVI AND CESARE.   "   His declaration called forth no other feeling than regret that her refusal might interfere with their friendship. This, though decided, was made as gentle as was consistent with firmness. In the evening, Salvi called upon Mr. Black in his li- brary and told him this second honor secured his future suc- cess.  Indeed," said he, "as long as I am able to work, I shall be independent, and feel now that I can offer an in- dependence to any one who will share my fortunes. Can you look favorably upon my addressing your niece? I will not promise you," he continued, smiling gravely, "to give up my chance of happiness should this not meet with your approbation. I will spare no effort to secure so great a boon as Miss Walsh's love, feeling that I can make her happy should she give me the opportunity. An English- man in your position would not, I know, encourage an artist; but in America, I hear that science, law, and art are on an equality. After your hospitable kindness, I will not do anything clandestinely; all I ask is that you" throw no obstacles in my way." "None whatever, my dear fellow. Frankly, however, I should prefer Ellen to marry an American; still she is the one to choose. You must not expect me either to mar or make. All I can say is, if she is willing, I shall be." "There spoke a true, kind-hearted republican. If Italy were a republic, what would she not be?" "I will advise you not to be rash or sudden. Ellen   I 92      TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. is young and shy. Come, as formerly, to the house, and do not speak until you think you have made yourself, in,a degree, necessary to her happiness. A premature declara- tion may " (he was thinking of Cesare and Mr. Barrett) "ruin your prospects." "A thousand, thousand thanks," said Salvi, grasping his hand. He took Mr. Black's counsel; every day he found a pre- text for calling, either to give Ellen a lesson in painting, or to read to her, or accompany her in her music. He planned excursions for her and her aunt, on horseback and on foot, and such progress did he make in his suit, that while Cesare'was trying to recover his disappointment, by banishing himself from Florence, he and Ellen, in the course of a month, were affianced lovers, and the following spring was fixed upon for their marriage.   SALVI AND CESARE.          93 IV. "Oh, -tell her, Swallow, thou that knowest each, That bright, and fierce, and fickle is the South, And deep, and true, and tender is the North." "So these were wed, and Merrily rang the bells. Merrily rang the bells, and they were wed." - Tennyson. "The Duomo bell strikes twelve, as if it Struck ten fathom down; so deep! And fifty churches answer it' The same: with fifty various instances." - Mrs. Browning. SPRING was not long in returning, and one bright May morning a small number of intimate friends assembled at Casa Buonaparte. The marriage service was read by Dr.. Greene. Invitations had been issued to all the visiting ac- quaintances of the bride and bridegroom elect, to 'witness the Catholic ceremonial which was to take place at the church of Santa Croce, and, while the ushers were arrang- ing them  in their respective places, the wedding party drove from Mrs. Black's to a small street, from whence, by a side-door, they entered the studio of Cesare, thus en- tirely escaping publicity, and the confusion of a crowd. They arrived there in time for Ellen to rest between the   "      TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. services. Salvi, with his attendant groomsmen, passed on into his own room, to await the opening of the church door. As they walked through, Mrs. Vere (whose rela- tions with Cesare had become very confidentiaD, with her usual want of tact, detained him. Mrs. Black insisted upon Ellen's sitting down in a retired corner, and, while hand- ing her a chair, overturned a small pot of green paint upon the skirt of her brida--dress. Beckoning to Cesare, she showed him the accident, and asked for turpentine. "Hhave something much more effectual," he said; and, begging Mrs.- Black to go to her -friends, he took a small bottle from the table, and, while he rubbed out the stains, chatted, to relieve the anxiety of the bride. "You must know," "he said, " that I once studied chem- istry, and'when I discovered a way of mixing very brilliant greens, I found them difficult of erasure. This was trouble- some, as at that time I wanted often to rub out my work; so I experimented until I produced a perfect detergent. Turpentine, which is generally used, did no good; but nothing can resist this." - And he held up her dress en- tirely free from the paint. "What a valuable secret! How long have you known it?" "About four years; but I must hasten to Salvi.' As soon as he had gone, Ellen, taking the bottle from the table, by a sudden impulse put it into her pocket. The conviction that Cesare had been treacherous to his friend   SALVI AND CESARE. ,        95  flashed upon her. Would he not have immediately re- stored'his picture for him, had it been otherwise? It was all as plain to her as if his guilt were branded on his fore- head. She was so entirely overcome by this discovery that when the doors opened, and the vibrating tones of the organ reached her, she was seized with such a nervous trembling that she feared she should not be able to stand. "Courage, my daughter," whispered Mr.. Black, look- ing anxiously at her pale and agitated face; and, taking her on his arm, "It will soon be over," he said, and led her into the cathedral, followed by Salvi and the bridal party. It was soon over, and, as they passed through the large entrance into the square, all1 the bells in the city suddenly pealed forth a gust of melody. It was 'mid-day, and from all the large churches, and the smaller ones on the neighboring hill, came what seemed a welcome to the fair young bride. The air was alive with sound, and Ellen, who had always enjoyed the peculiarly beautiful, tones of the Florentine bells, felt her heart overflowing with gratitude for her happy fate, and pity for the mis- guided man who was following her in ignorance of her sus- picions. After the breakfast at Mrs. Black's, Salvi took his bride to Lombardy, and Mr. Black occupied himself, during their absence, in fitting up a wing of the old palace for them to occupy on their return. The day after they arrived in Florence was Ellen's    96       VLES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. birthday, and when, on going down to breakfast, her hus- band presented her with a most fragrant bouquet, she, said, "This seems enough toWsatisfy any reasonable woman; but I have a favor to ask of you." "It is granted." "I wish you to extend your holiday twenty-four hours, and not go to your studio to-day." "Very well. What plan have you for us?" "None for you; but I want to go to your studio with my maid." "What, my darling," he answered, laughing heartily, "you wish to spend your birthday at my studio, alone with Rosa? What a fantastic celebration! However, as you like. I will call upon Lord Bute, from whom I have a note urg- ing me either to paint over my picture from Ariosto for him where it is injured, or to copy it. Cesare is coming back, I hear, from Leghorn this morning. He seems to have drifted away from us lately; but he must be put on the old footing again. He has been engrossed with his paintings for the new exhibition, which opened last week, and I hear they are the best pictures there." "What surprise has my little wife been preparing for me?" asked Salvij the following morning, when they went up his studio steps together. When he opened the door, the surprise was one which took away his breath, for, hanging on the wall, was his pic- ture entirely restored, fresh as when he parted with it a n   SALVI AND CK:SARE.          97 yea ago.  He uttered a cry of joy.   "What a miracle! How was it done? Have you discovered the perpetrator of the mischief?" "Do not ask me now for any painful disclosures.   Of one thing, I am certain: Giuseppe, for whom I sent to assist me, is perfectly innocent; he is in the next room, waiting to ask your pardon for his rudeness. You will employ him  again, I am  sure;" and, opening the door, Giuseppe rushed in, kissed his master's hand, and was forgiven. On returning home Ellen sent back to Cesare the bottle which had been so powerful a proof of his treachery, with the following note:-- "You have enabled me, unintentionally, to repair a great injury. If you have ever had that power, you will know how much more satis- factory it is than inflicting one." In the evening she received an answer: - I find you have discovered my wickedness. Believe me, the prize I won at the Academy has been to me a crown of thorns, goading me to desperation. In a moment of jealous madness, I was tempted to deface Salvi's picture. I could pot bear the idea of his exhibiting your likeness; at least, what he thought a likeness of you. Had he re- turned from the Square, where he preceded me by a few minutes, I would have fought with him to the death. Never was sin more promptly punished. I aroused your pity for him, and you offered your portrait as a substitute. I lost you, and advanced him by an act, the- subtle influence of which colored my intercourse with you both. 7   98       TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. Sueh was the frenzy of my mind, when I heard of your engagement, that something much more serious might have happened than my childish, paltry revenge, had it not been for a kind, noble-hearted woman, who, seeing my unhappiness, drew me into an acknowledg- ment of my fault; and, by probing the wound, partially healed it. Mrs. Vere is to be my wife. She made only one stipulation before accept- ing me, that, before her marriage I should avow my treachery. She always said that repairing the mischief without confessing it would only put me still more in the wrong, and that the poison would work all my life, unless I made a great effort to free myself from it. Your discovery anticipated my confession. To-morrow I go to Naples to prepare for our future life. The past seems like a hideous dream. All I ask, all I beg, all I pray for, is Salvi's forgiveness." "Poor Salvi!" exclaimed Ellen, as she put the letter into her desk. "I will not tell him  to-night; and poor, weak Cesare!   If I had ever encouraged him, I never could forgive myself." The next morning, no favorable opportunity offered of revealing the painful secret. When her husband came for her-to go to the exhibition of pictures with him, she gladly postponed her task. He had been' too much occupied to paint for it this year. As soon as they entered the hall, he looked in vain for Cesare's landscapes. Coming up to two blank spaces, he overheard an Italian gentleman say to his friend, "Why were these pictures taken down?" "I hear that Signor Cesare is to leave Florence, and is going to Naples to live." "But why has he left so suddenly?    :SALVI AND CESARE.       ,  99 I do not know. He is to marry the handsome young widow, Mrs. Vere."  "There certainly is no one to take his place. He is our best landscape painter; no such foliage can be painted by any of our modern artists; his greens are so vivid, and - " Salvi suddenly walked. away.  "Ellen," he gasped, a come home."  When he reached his own room, he said, A'A most hor- rible suspicion has taken possession of me. Tell me --it is not, it cannot be true - Ellen - Cesare "- While he hesitated to give shape to his fancies, she put his friend's note into his hands. His agitation on reading it was extreme ; the whole depths of his being were stirred; not the slightest doubt of his chosen companion had ever entered his mind, and the discovery was unalloyed bitterness. After horror, indignation, and grief had shaken him by turns, Ellen, seating herself at his feet, took his hand. "You will forgive him, love." No answer reached her. She soothed him for a long interval, and then whispered, "We shall feel much happier if we can forgive him. You know he is as impulsive as a child, a southern Italian whose veins are full of liquid fire. When he had once done the evil, he could not but conceal it at first, and then every day made it more difficult for him. You will pardon him for my sake.' He smiled upon her through his agony. , "Yes. You tempted him unintentionally; I will forgive him."   100       TALES OF ErUROPEAN LIFE. Ellen took a book from her dressing-table.  "Let me read the divine words of the Swedish poet: - ,( 'Bears not each human figure the godlike stamp on his forehead? Readest thou not in his face thine origin? Is he not sailing, Lost like thyself, on an ocean unknown, and is he not guided By the same stars that guide thee? Why should'st thou hate, then, thy brother? Hatest he thee, forgive! For 'tis sweet to stammer one letter Of the Eternal language; - on-earth it is called forgiveness! '" "Poor human nature! ' said Salvi. "Yes, we all need forgiveness. I will and do forgive him, as I hope to be for- given." "But is it real forgiveness," persisted Ellen, I to send them into exile, and not be able to live in the same place with them? Naples is not so profitable a city for artists as Florence, and Mrs. Vere has made many warm friends here, - friends who are willing to excuse the brusquerie of her manners, for her real worth; to her the change would, be a serious evil. It may not be too late; come with me; " and she led the way into the street. On arriving at Cesare's lodgings, the servant said his master had gone out in a carriage with' his trunks, and he did not expect him back. They hurried to Mrs. Vere's, and found her agitated and subdued. She expected to see Cesare before he left Flor- ence. Salvi stationed himself at a window, and Ellen, sitting near Mrs. Vere on the other side of the large drawing-   SALVr AND CESARE.        101 room, told her of the conversation she had overheard at Lucca, and of the strange fancies it gave rise to. "My dear child, I remember every word of that conversa- tion, for it made a great impression upon me. Giorgio had always shown me his pictures; he had frequently been out sketching with me, and had taught me a great deal about color, so that I felt (as it was only a few days before the exhibition) there was no harm in my looking at the lhnd- scape, -a silly whim perhaps; but I could not account for his being so much annoyed, and when I said a sudden im- pulse prompted me to lift the gauze which hung before Signor Salvi's picture, such a horror came into his face, and when I added that, as I knew him less well, I abstained, so much relief stole over his features that I thought it very remarkable." (, And do you remember saying you would move heaven and earth to ensure his success?" "Perfectly," replied Mrs. Vere, blushing; "that was one of my silly, enthusiastic speeches; but he seemed so miserable I thought he was despairing of his success. Per- haps you did not hear what I said afterwards; that any- thing I could do to advance his interests in an honorable way I would; and then the strange look came again into his face. I saw at once something much more serious was the matter than I had supposed, and in time, fortu- nately, he made me his confidant; otherwise insanity might have been the result of his jealousy and remorse."   102      TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. Salvi started to his feet, as a carriage drove rapidly to the door. Mrs. Vere led Ellen gently away, and Cesare, on entering, found himself alone with his injured friend. The next day the two landscapes were rehung at the Academy, and directly over them  appeared the picture from Ariosto. Cesare had exerted his skill upon it so suc- cessfully, that, even on- the closest examination, no trace of the injury was visible. Lord Bute thought himself very fortunate in being able to become the possessor of the three. There being no portrait of any merit exhibited, the com- mittee decided again to award the prizes to the two friends.    AN ADVENTURE IN PRAGUE. 4,     AN ADVENTURE IN PRAGUE. "EMMA," called out a young man, rapping impatiently at a door in a Prague hotel; " are you not ready?" "Give me a moment's grace," replied a sweet voice. "Is mamma downstairs?" "Yes; in the carriage, where you ought to be ; but you never are as punctual as she is."' ".I have not inherited that virtue certainly," said the young lady. Opening the door, and passing her brother, she gayly ran down the stairs, and sprang into her place., - "There, I am here before you, George. Oh, what- a lovely day!" "Yes," said Mrs. Selden. "June generally gives us beautiful weather. Shall we drive first to the Hrads- chin?  "Being a party of Bohemians for the first time in our lives," rejoined Emma, "I should like to spend a, charac- teristic day of wandering. I want to see first the grand old palace of the Bohemian kings." "Its four hundred  and forty rooms?' interrupted George. 105   106      TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. ' No, not to-day; but the most remarkable parts; then takesa peep into the Museum of Natural History, go to the Cathedral, as pilgrims to the tomb of St. John of Nepemuk, and then drive to one of the islands of Moldau, and lunch at a coffee-house." "A capital programme; for which we are indebted, I suppose, to your assiduous study of Murray." "Certainly; as you will not make a study of sight-see- ing, I must,' - they were now going up the precipitous as- cent leading to the rHradschin, - - and I will tell you what, perhaps, you do not know, that hrad in Bohemian means steep." Here their badinage suddenly ceased; for, meeting them over the brow of the hill, came a gentleman and lady in an open wagon, the horse dashing madly down the declivity. As they passed, Emma leaned out of the window, and, sud- denly screaming with horror, exclaimed, "The horse has stumbled, and thrown her out; she is lying in the road." And she hid her face in her hands. "Stop! stop!" shouted George to the driver; but he did not obey; indeed, he could not, as they were near the crown of the hill. "Look," said Emma; "I dare not." "The horse has recovered himself, and is running at full speed with the man, who has no control over him; the young lady is so surrounded that I cannot see her."' By this time, they were at the summit, and again peremp-   AN ADVENTUrE IN PiRAGUE.        107 orily telling the coachman to stop. George jumped out, rad, followed by his sister, hastened to offer their assistr mnce, while Mrs. Selden told the man to turn round and Irive slowly to the foot of the hill. The young lady had been lifted from the ground in a perfectly insensible condition. George was the first to reach her. Good heavens! Helen Scott! We must put her n our carriage, and find a doctor." It was with some difficulty that they made their wishes inderstood, but, at length, were told there was a physi- cian near by. Mrs. Selden received the fainting girl, and they all moved slowly on towards the house which had been indicated. Fortunately, the doctor was at home. Helen was taken into a room, and laid on a sofa, and Dr. Schroeder, after a thorough examination, pronounced his opinion: there were no bones broken; but her state was a very alarming one. She must be taken home immediately, put to bed, and kept perfectly quiet; her life and reason demand it. "Look;' he said, showing a small wound at the side of her head, where her golden locks were tinged with blood, "'if she had struck her temple, she must have been instantly - d. A most narrow escape. I dare not say an escape yet; all depends upon nursing; but, with a mother's care, we may hope." Mrs. Selden briefly explained the adventure: "'This poor girl is a former friend of my daughter's, but we   vOU      TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. thought she was in America. What can we do?   Her brother was probably with her; although we cannot be sure, as they passed so rapidly." "No time is to be lost, madame," returned the physi- cian; "-hasten home, or her life will be the forfeit." "Come with us then; and, George, go back to the hill, and watch for her companion." The- doctor placed his patient in the carriage. and get- ting in supported her head. On arriving at the hotel, he secured a good-room, and, having placed her on the bed, went out for a nurse. Emma seated herself by her former schoolmate; and, as she looked at her beautiful features, covered apparently with the pallor of death, tears of pity fell from her eyes. She was lying with her long lashes on her cheek, her dishevelled hair covering the pillow, which was already stained with what Emma feared was her life- blood. As Dr. Schroeder had given strict orders not to have her disturbed till the nurse came, she merely laid her hands on those of Helen, which, folded on her breast, were in hue and feeling like -marble. He soon returned, bringing a countrywoman of his own, a Jyoung, strong, pleasant-looking Austrian nurse, who, quietly hanging up her bonnet and shawl, began at once, in the most gentle mann6r, to undress the patient, and bathe her wound. The doctor went into Mrs. Selden's par- lor. "Madame," he said, earnestly, "a great responsibil- ity has suddenly devolved upon you."   AN ADVENTURE IN PRA SUE.      109 "Yes, I feel it so. Our plans are entirely changed. I was to have left Prague to-morrow; our trunks are packed, and our arrangements made to rejoin Mr. Selden, who has remained in Paris. Now, as I must stay and take care of this poor child, I will write immediately to tell him of this sad accident." '; Heaven reward you; and now, to give final instructions to Marie for the night. I will call early to-morrow morn- ing." Twilight soon fell on the landscape, and Emma, who was watching anxiously for George, said, "Mamma, what will poor Harry Scott do, for I think it was he? When he does not find his sister, he will be distracted." An hour later, George returned, saying he could find no trace of Helen's companion. He had waited on the hill an hour; then he had gone up to the Hradschin, and given particular directions to the janitor; then he had been to the principal bankers, the American consul's, and now he pro- posed calling at all the hotels. He again returned, towards night, having failed to elicit any information. "To-mor- row, I will go out again, and exhaust every possible means of finding him." He did so; but obtained no clue to the mystery. Day after day passed, and Helen remained in the same unconscious state; delirium and apathy succeeded each other, and she existed upon stimulants and opiates. Dr. Schroeder made two visits daily, and found a very efficient   "O      TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. assistant in George Selden, who had studied medicine in Ajnerica, and had come abroad to finish his education. Marie was very faithful and skilful, and when she was wearied beyond her powers of endurance, Emma and Mrs. Selden relieved her. Mr. Selden soon joined his family, and they made a home for themselves, as there seemed no prospect of their being able to leave Prague. He was a cousin, far removed, of Helen's father, and Mrs. Scott and his wife had been at- tached friends when young; their intimacy had continued until the death of the former. When that event took place, the -family had moved to St. Louis, and though at first there was a frequent interchange of letters between the young people, an entire difference of situation and interests led to a -gradual cessation of writing, and when the accident occurred, four years had passed without any tidings of the Scotts. Faithful to her former friendship, and anxious to do all in her power for Helen, Mrs. Selden cheerfully ac- cepted the work she found to do. Her husband sympa- thized with her, and having written to St. Louis for in- formation, and received an answer stating that Mr. Scott had died two years since, and his two children had, soon after, gone to Europe, he felt persuaded that Helen's brother had been killed. His ample means enabled him to defray the additional expenses of his family cheerfully, and he adopted into his heart and home the unfortunate girl who had so mysteriously been given into his charge.   AN ADVENTURE IN PRAGUE.       1" Prague has a great deal to interest a person of culture. Its situation is most picturesque, lying in a valley cut in two by the swift-flowing Moldau. Mr. Selden, who had studied architecture, was never weary of gazing on the ori- ental-looking turrets, towers, and spires, which shot up in profusion on both sides of the river. It was also a great enjoyment to him and Emma to read'history in the relics of the thirty years' war, and see all that was left of the former magnificence of Wallanstein and the old Bohemian kings. Added to this, Dr. Schroeder introduced them to a small, agreeable circle of friends, and aided them in their study of German. Had it not been for Helen's painful con- dition, their time would have passed delightfully. One morning in July, as the doctor was making his visit and George was listening to his directions for the day, Marie told them that her fraulein was calmer during the night; that she did not as usual scream with terror and speak as if a horse were galloping away with her (she had learned to understand the often-repeated exclamations), or call out "Harry!" several times. She was going on, when Helen, who had been lying apparently asleep, suddenly opened her eyes, saying,!"Who spoke of Harry?" Then looking at George, and putting her wasted hand in his, her face beaming with joy, she said, "How delightful. it is to see you again, dearest! ' "She takes you for her brother," whispered the doctor; "favor the delusion; " and George spoke words of pleasure   "2      TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE.- and encouragement; -but soon her delirium returned, and for another month life and death struggled for her possession. Her lucid intervals were rare; but as in those intervals, although her delusion continued, she talked rationally on other topics, Dr. Schroeder never gave up hope. ' This fancy she has taken to you," he said to his young friend, " is a fortunate one. Had she awakened- to a full sense of her loss, I could not answer for the consequences, in her present feeble condition."' It was impossible for George to see this lovely girl daily, without feeling the strongest interest and compassion, and when she looked fondly at him, and spoke in tones of earnest affection, he felt that a new era was dawning for him.  "When she recovers," he thought, "I will be more than a brother to her; should she grant me that hap- piness." She soon began to take nourishment, and was not satisfied unless he gave it to her; neither would she have her medicines from any other hand. The shrewd physician read his feelings, and one day he said, "I do not think this lost Harry was Miss Scott's brother."  George started and stammered out an inquiry into his reasons. "She is too fond of him for that supposition; besides, I have made a discovery; " and, moving gently a circlet of large garnets on her finger, he showed a plain gold ring; then seeing the young man turn pale, he quietly left the room. ,^ ,         "' ' '   AN ADVENTURE IN PRAGUE.      113 As Helen's strength increased, her delusion faded away, and as George's services were no longer needed, he gladly took his father's advice, and went to Vienna to establish himself comfortably before the medical term began. He still tried to delude himself and not believe in the doctor's discov- ery. "If her brother still lives," he thought, "' he is won- derfully negligent. Even should her companion prove to have been her husband, she is probably a widow, and in the course of time--" Here he broke off his soliloquy, and owned that his duty was to forget her, and that work must be his panacea. In the autumn, the cool October weather gave strength to the invalid, and air and exercise were prescribed. In their drives they studiously avoided the scene of the catas- trophe; but as Helen had for some time been under a new phase of feeling, living apparently in the present, and for- getting the past, Fimma, sanctioned by Dr. Schroeder, drove one day with her up the hill, to call for her father at the Palace. She observed that her companion trembled, and saw that the faint flush which the bracing air had called into her cheek had faded. Taking no notice of her emotion, she joined her father, and procured a glass of water. This partially revived Helen, and they turned to drive home- wards. As they surmounted the brow of the hill, the poor girl gave a deep groan, and, closing her eyes, remained speechless until she was in her chamber, when, drawing Emma towards her, she said, "All has returned to me dis- 8   "4      TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. tinctly. He must be dead. How long is it since he left me? "It is five months, dearest Helen, since you were thrown out of a carriage." "Sometimes it has seemed an eternity, and, again, to have happened yesterday he must have been killed. Let me mourn for him, not only inwardly but outwardly. Why should I wear bright colors? What have I to do with beauty and gayety?" They humored her in her wishes, and Marie, who had been retained in her service, procured everything for her, and when she was dressed in her weeds she thought her fraulein the most beautiful creature she had ever seen. The agitating subject of the past was never mentioned, unless she led the way herself, which was very rarely. She did not talk of her brother, and, although the Seldens shared Dr. Schroeder's idea that she was married, they had no confirmation of it from her. She read and worked, walked and drove; but all, seemed passive endurance, and so the winter wore away. In the spring, Helen being pronounced strong enough to bear the journey, and the Seldens feeling confident that her companion in the accident must have been suddenly killed the day they saw him  borne off from them, they deter- mined to move towards Paris on their way home. Before their arrangements were completed, Emma proposed to her father to walk with her to the post-office, to give directions   AN ADVENTURE IN PRAUUE.       115 for the forwarding of their letters. It was quite at a dis- tance, across the river, a lonely walk, as all walks are in that picturesque city. The postmaster handed her a letter, which was directed, ", George Selden, Esq., or Miss Sel- den."  He explained that he had not seen it until a few days before, as, soon after it arrived, it had been given to a Mr. Selwyn by mistake, and, when returned, a new clerk had put it in the wrong place, where it had lain unnoticed. It was from Harry Scott, dated September, begging them to let him know if they had met his sister. Hle was in Florence, where he proposed passing the winter, and h1ad just heard incidentally that they were in Prague. Helen had been married in Paris, in May, and had left without any fixed plan of travel, promising to let him know how to address his letters. He did not anticipate any serious accident, but could not avoid some anxiety on the sub- ject. 's Then Helen is a widow," said Emma; " now we can ascertain whom- she married, and let her brother know where to join us." "Not so easily," replied Mr. Selden. "Hle has proba- bly left Florence before now; but I will write immediately in care of the banker he mentions.' There was -also a letter from George: - "VIENNA. "DEAR EMMA : -Persuade the heads of the family to come to Vien- na before turning homewards. It is a pleasant journey, and I not   "6       TALES OP EUROPEAN LIFE. only want to see you all, but I wish you to see me and my belong. ings. The advantages here are enormous, quite beyond those of Par- is; so she may hide her diminished head, having been thought the cli- max of everything long enough. The hospital is a city by itself, and its three thousand patients keep us actively employed. Our Saturdays are delightful; we then stray off into the suburbs and music gardens, where we dance with the pretty Viennese. I find my work very inter- esting, and like some of my fellow-students very much, particularly Damon, and (not Pythias, but) Gould, of Philadelphia. Last week, arrived another American, Mr. Gilman. He would just suit your romantic fancy; pale, dark, melancholy, very like Byron's heroes, and something like Byron, -having an aristocratic head and ear, and a slight limp. But as I shall see you so soon, I will say nothing more, than if you do not come I will not speak to you for a year. "Yours, in the most hurried of hurries, - GEORGE SELDEN." "George is heart-whole again; certainly," said Emma, laughing.   Why can we not go?" "As he has another year of study before him," replied Mr. Selden, "I should like to see his surroundings before  leaving."     ' On   mentioning the idea to his wife, she heartily ap- proved it, and proposed going the next day, and returning to Prague to pack for their final departure. When Helen heard the plan, she seemed unwilling to ac- company   them; but as they said they should not enjoy it without her, and that it would be better for her to make a trial of her strength, she consented. "I should like never to leave Prague," she said to   AN ADVENVTURE r   PRAGUE.  '   117 Emma, when they were alone. "I think my life will be a short one, and I should rather end it here, where-" flinging herself sobbing into her friend's arms. "Grief is selfish; bear with me for a little while. I may see my brother soon, and ,oh! how I reproach myself for not feel- ing more pleasure at the idea; but joy is dead within me." These outhursts of grief were very rare, as generally she moved through life in a calm apathy. She was neither irri- table -nor exacting, and very grateful' for kindness; but her heart seemed broken, and all interest in passing events had ceased. On arriving at Vienna, George came to plan their sight- seeing for them. His feelings had become entirely frater- nal towards Helen, who, though she always received him pleasantly, was reserved towards him, as if, in some subtle way she had become aware of the trick her fancy had played her. 9 The next day the Seldens went, at an early hour, to the hospital, leaving Helen unwillingly at home. She was unusually depressed, and begged to be quiet. After a long, agreeable morning, on returning to the Goldenes Lamm, to their surprise she was not there.. The maid said that the young lady in black had asked her; two hours since, the way to St. Stephen's. "I will go there with Emma,"' said George. "There is a short thoroughfare from here to St. Stephen's, Platey." The cathedral was filled with gayly dressed people, as it   "8      TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. was a festival. The effect of the interior is always gloomy, and the sun being obscured by passing clouds made it at in- tervals still more dusky. They walked through the aisles, searching in vain for Helen, but at length saw a figure in mourning kneeling in a remote angle near the chancel, her face buried in her hands, and, on approaching, saw it was she. Perfectly motionless and abstracted, on Emma's touching her, she started, and looked up with a wan look and fixed expression in her eye. They raised her gently, George saying she was expected at the hotel, and Emma adding, cheerfully, "Yes, mamma would not go to dinner without you, and she is very hungry after her day's work!" Helen did not speak during their walk, and, as soon as they entered, went up to her room. ' I cannot eat any- thing," she said, in a subdued voice to Emma, " and will lie down while you dine.5' "Let me stay with you." C No; I prefer to be alone. Come to me in an hour." On returning, the invalid was lying quite still, with the same rapt expression -of face she had worn in the church. "I have seen him," she murmured. "Whom, darling? 7 "My husband. My heart was so oppressed by grief at finding myself in a strange city, surrounded by new faces, that I determined to go into St. Stephen's to pray to him who is the God of Protestants and Catholics. After in-   AN ADVENTURE I N PRAG UE.     119 voking assistance in my extremity of sorrow, I looked up, and there, at a distance from me, was the being I most love. He looked sad, and thin, and pale, advanced a step towards me, then, turning round, vanished in the crowd. It was his spirit. He. must have appeared to me as a sign that my days are numbered. I shuddered with terror, lut soon became composed, and fell into a blissful trance, from which you awakened me." George, who was waiting to hear his sister's report, pre- scribed a sedative, and told her by no means to leave her friend during the night. Helen slept quietly, and, awaking apparently refreshed, said she had dreamed delightfully. "I thought I was walking up the Palace hill, when, just at the place where I fell, Harry suddenly joined me, and, clasping me in his arms, began to move upwards, then saying ' Meet me here,' he gently disengaged himself, floating away, while I sank painlessly to earth. Remember, this is the last of May; the third of June is the anniversary of our separation, - that shall be my trysting day." Emma soothed her, and in terror left the room to tell her mother that she feared insanity was impending. "We must return to our good doctor, immediately." They did so; and, on consulting him, he at once ad- vised carrying out her idea, and said it might awaken her from the delusion, and -restore her sooner than thwarting her wishes.   120       TALES O' E'UROPEAN LIFE. "May not the disappointment kill her?" asked Mrs. Selden, anxiously.  "Her belief in the reunion is so fixed, that I should think the failure would break her heart." "Any violent emotion is dangerous, in so feeble a frame; but what I most dread for her is insanity, and there is less danger of this by acceding to her wish." As they were talking, a letter was put into Emma's hand.  "From  George.  What a faithful correspondent! I did not think he would write so soon." "I hope nothing unfortunate has happened/ O0 mamma, how apprehensive you are! lt I will put you out of anxiety.  And she opened he Fetter, but had not read a moment, before she exclaimed, "Oh, how won- derful!  Helen's husband, mamma! Dr. Schroeder! was ever anything so fortunate?" "Read it quick, my dear." "I have found the lost man. Gilman and Helen's husband are one and the same. I write that you may prepare her, for a surprise might be dangerous. I shall be with you so soon that I will only outline his remarkable story. His horse, which was frightened by a barking cur, ran at full speed as far as the Judea Stadt, where, running against a stone post, he was instantly killed. Gilman was thrown out, breaking his leg, and otherwise being seriously injured. He was taken into a room at the back of a shop, and a Jewish doctor set the fracture, and nursed him with skill and kindness for three months, during a brain fever. Entirely isolated in that quarter, no one saw him but Jews, who are more closely associated, more observant of old customs, and have less intercourse with Christians than in any other European city. The first day he recovered his consciousness, he drove to the Amer-   AN ADVENTURE IN PRAGUE.         121 ican consul's, but not finding him at home, went to the English bury- ing-ground, and, getting out of the carriage, strayed about among the tombs. Seeing a freshy made grave, with the initials H. G., and the age marked down at twenty-three, he felt confirmed in his previous belief that his wife was no longerliving. This belief took so strong a hold on his sick fancy that he made preparations for leaving Prague without any farther search. Entirely broken down in body and mind, he sent to the hotel where he was staying before the accident, for his trunks, and, shun- - ning all companionship, buried himself in an obscure village in Sty- ria. In the spring, the influences of nature partially restored him, and, feeling the necessity of some engrossing occupation for mind and body, he determined to continue his medical studies, which had been interrupted at home by his having fallen heir to a large fortune. He came to Vienna for that purpose. As I have seen very little of him, I was surprised yesterday by his sending for me.- I found him fever- ish and wretched. He told me his story, and then said he had been very much startled the day before, on going into St. Stephen's, by see- ing a young lady in mourning, who bore a most remarkable resem- blance to his lost wife. He wanted to speak to her, but, as she wore a thick veil, and seemed to court solitude, his courage failed him. Now he was regretting his cowardice, and, knowing I usually saw all the travelling Americans, he begged me to find out who she was. He is wild with excitement, and thinks his giving up the search for her, and accepting the despairing idea of her death, were symptoms of the weakened condition of his mind. We shall be with you to-morrow." "That is to-day," said Emtna. Dr. Schroeder, who had laughed and cried over the let- ter, enjoined the strictest secrecy. He had become very much attached to the poor girl, and had never watched a more interesting case. He walked up and down the room in restless delight at the idea of Helen's having her antici-    . .            .   1Z;Z      TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. pations realized, and, soothing Mrs. Selden's fears, who dreaded the consequences of the interview, he went away to intercept the young men and take them to his house. The third of June was as charming a day as its prede- cessor of the former year. Helen took out the bright- colored dress she wore at that time, hanging up her mourn- ing with a quiet smile of happiness. She dressed herself with great care, and looked very lovely. A flush of ex- citement brightening her eyes, and delicately tinging her cheeks, gave her an appearance of health. She had shown no mental aberration, except in the persistent idea that she should meet her husband; and now, that they knew she had really seen him, they could account satisfactorily for what had appeared an unfounded delusion. Dr. Schroeder was to take her in his carriage, while the Seldens were to follow in another. They were to ascend the hill precisely at eleven, and Mr. Gilman and George were instructed to begin their descent at the same time, ensuring their meeting midway.  As they moved away ' from the house, the doctor felt the young. wife's pulse. It was calm, and she seemed to have perfect control over her- self. 'My dear child," he said, kindly, " do you not sometimes expect to meet your husband in the flesh? All things are possible. He may have been injured, as you were, and unable to seek for you. I have no belief in the appearance of spirits." "I do not know; he did not tell me. I judged from   AN ADVENTURE IN' PRAGUE.      123 his appearance that he was no longer living; but' it makes no difference. Should he really be alive, earth will be heaven. Should he bear me with him to another sphere, we shall be united forever.", "It is a perfect possession," thought the doctor, "and i I am more than ever convinced it is better to have humored her." As they were about to descend from the carriage at the foot of the hill, he said, "Now, Helen, I must give you a parting caution; should this happen which you anticipate, we must have no scene. You must exert all your self-com- mand. " "Certainly I should not like to afford a spectacle for idle lookers-on." The party began slowly to ascend, and the passers-by saw nothing remarkable in the quiet-looking foreigner, bound, as they thought, on a pleasure excursion. Emma's quick eye soon saw two figures surmounting the crown of the hill, and, trembling with emotion, she pressed the doctor's arm. Furtively glancing at Helen she saw she was aware of Mr. Gilman's approach. With a firm step, glancing eye, and triumphant expression, she moved more swiftly, and, when the distance between them was small, she suddenly left Dr. Schroeder's side, and, going straight up to him, said softly, "You have kept your tryst; " then, turning round and put- ting her arm in his quietly, went down the hill. He was much more overcome, and required George's support to help   1Z4      TALES OF 'UIROPEAN L1FS. him into the carriage. On the way home, she sat holding his hand, and gazing at him, but not speaking. The faithful Marie was waiting for her, and,' taking her in her strong arms, she put her on the bed and sang her to sleep. The excitement she had undergone and the effort at self-control had entirely exhausted her, and she remained motionless for hours. On awaking, she talked rationally, the sight of Mr. Gilman bringing back all that had occurred before the accident. The past was no longer a blank, and the chamber in her soul which had been so long sealed was unlocked. Memory came back with a rush, bearing before it all morbid fancies. In listening to his adventures and relating her own she passed many happy days.  "How wonderful it was," she said, " that we should both have been lying on sick beds within a mile of each other, and that we should have found such good Samaritans to bind up our wounds! X The kindness one meets with in misfortune proves we are all one large family." There is no healing power to be compared to joy. In a fortnight Helen was perfectly well in body and mind, and the Seldens were astonished to see the frail being they had watched for so long, full of brightness, energy, and activity. Mr. Scott had joined his sister, and her cup of happiness overflowed. She invited them to what she called a wed- ding-dinner, which was to take place the day before they were to leave Prague. Her trunks, which Mr. Gilman had never felt the courage to open, were unpacked, and in her To*   AN .ADrZENTURE IN PRAGUE.      125 bridal-dress and orange flowers she presided on the happy occasion. George was summoned from Vienna. Before he left, he had the satisfaction of procuring a situation for Marie, as head nurse in one of the wards of the hospital. Dr. Schroeder, Mr. Scott, and the Seldens made a very' merry party. The landlord exerted himself to honor the festival, and Marie, who had decorated the dining-room in the most tasteful manner with flowers and greenhouse plants, waited on the table in a new dress and cap pre- sented by her grateful patient.  When George at dessert proposed the health of Marie Griin, head nurse of ward No. 17, in the Vienna Hospital, the astonished woman made a little' speech which came straight from her heart, ending with-- kissing Helen's hand and wedding ring-- "I was ganz dumm), not to know myfraulein was afrau, when she talked so much about Harry; " then coloring and turning to Mr. Gilman, with a graceful simplicity, she added, "Excuse me, sir, but you will always be Harry to me." The following day they bade adieu with mingled feelings to Prague and Helen. To add to her happiness, she soon became aware, from  the unmistakable pleasure her brother and Emma showed in each other's society, that her friend was to become what she had so truly proved herself, a sister to her.  Mr. Gilman had it in his power to make Dr. Schroe- der's life much easier, and add many luxuries to his modest bachelor establishment. * Very stupid.   126 .     TALES OF ZUROPEAN LIFE. In Helen's American horie .a large photograph of the- Hradschin hangs in her chamber, and often her eyes turn towards it, welling over with joy and gratitude at the reminiscences it awakens. ,                 .   PATIENCE STRONG'S OUTINGS. BY MRs. AD. T. WHTNEY, Author of "Faith Gartnes GMhood" "The Gayworys' etc, etc, I  A     One handsome 12mo, cloth. Price, $1.50. "PATIENCE STRONG'S OUTINGS" Is a peculiar and a rare book. The beautiful sympathy and intuition which shone in her former publications do not fail her in this. The ideas are of a deep significance, and are originally expressed. We do not not remember any work similar to it in style. There is an incoherence, a disjointed- ness of phrase, which expresses far more than smoothness could. She writes as we talk when deep feeling moves us (reservedly, with averted face, as it were, treading with hesi- tation on such holy ground), groping for expression which shall be forceful, yet, as far as possible, removed from senti- mentality or cant. She goes at once to the heart of life's deepest experiences, and, with a simplicity beautiful as it is rare, one's heart is moved with the noblest impulses, and softened by the tender pathos of-her thoughts. We need not recommend such a book. The author's name is recommen- dation enough. PATIENCE STRONG'S OUTINGS are the outgoings of a woman whose apparent opportunities are mostly for staying in. They are the reachings of life beyond circumstance; the book, therefore, is more of suggestion than story. The characterization and incidents are simply sufficient to connect and develope the thought. That " the world owes everybody a living" is true in a. better and higher sense than that in which the saying is ordinarily applied; and in the sketch of the simple doings and happiness at Dearwood, and at the old house where Patience Strong bides her time and vindicates her christen- ing, one sees something of how the good gift that life is meant to be for every soul, comes surely, even into such a quietness; and that out of the world is got the full and best world's worth, by the simplest heart that looks and waits for it.   r l-- 1 '1' .-1 i       C), A STORY OF YESTERDAYS. By Mrs. A. D. T. WHTNEY. "Never could Idyll boast a nobler rustic lover than Rich- ard Hathaway; and never has a scene of rustic love been described with more simple grace and quiet humor than the episode of Annie's disgrace and the' worrying' of her hideous bonnet. -For anything equally good, one is thrown back upon the. recollections of Maggie in 'The Mill -on the Floss."' -Illustrated London News. "Our readers may order this book from the library with- out fear. There are touches of nature and family scenes which will find a ready response in the female heart; and there is nothing that can offend the modesty of the most fastidious critic. "--London Athenceum. "Had we sufficient space, we might go on multiplying extracts of unmistakable beauty and originality; but our readers must, if possible, procure the volumes for themselves, arid so form their own opinion, which, we trust and believe, will entirely agree with ours. "-London Literary World. "The scenes and people are American, of the New Eng- land type, and in many respects they will remind those readers who are acquainted with them of Miss Wetherell's works, 'The Wide, Wide World,' &c., only there is more strength and character about the present story, though it abounds with philosophizing, and only deals with persons and acts of unimpeachable morality. "-London Observer. "How this is brought about we must leave our readers to ascertain from the book itself, which is far too well worth reading for us to wish to save any one the task of studying it. Especially is the character of Richard Hathaway an exquisite conception-excellent in its weakness and in its strength, excellent in its shy self-depreciation, n nd yet in its occasional glimpses of its own real worth and deservingness. We cannot think ourselves wrong in-rating it as one of the most faithfully-drawn characters in modern fiction."- London Literary Churchman. "We can hardly recommend the book to mere novels readers; but to all who can appreciate a book of high pur- pose, of real power, of high interest-for, though there is nothing sensational,. the story has in it a wonderful amount of life and varietvy-it will prove a most inviting and useful companion. "--London Nonconformist.   Paper, LESLIE TYRRELL. By OGEORGIANA M. CRAIt. ...      30. LUCY: Or, MARRIED FROM PIQUE, (From the German.) ..   30 BARON LEO VON 'OBERG, M D. A Story of Love Unspoken. (From the German.) . . . . .. . . . . . . ..    30 GRACE OWEN'S ENGAGEMENT,  (From Blaclkwood.) ....   25 FROM AN ISLAND.  By Miss TIIACERAY .  .....     20 Loiuisa M . Alcott's Three Proverb Stories: "KrI'TY"S CLASS DAY," "AUNT KIP."  "PSYCHE'S ART."  25' Handsolme Cloth Books. MRS. A. D. T. WHTNEY'S      BOOKS. Cloth. Ill'tlHETO: A STORY OF YESTERDAYS  ...... $2.00 PATIENCE STRONG'S OUTINGS. A very remarkable book.   1.50 THE GAYWORTHYS .    ....... -        .   2.00 FAITH GARTNEY'S GIRLHOOD, The best book for Girls ever written. 1.75 DAVID ELGINBROD. By GEORGE MACDONALD. .....      1.75 THE HOLLANDS. An American Novel. By VIRGINIA F. TOWmSEND. L.60 PIQUE: 'A Tale of the English Aristocracy. A choice novel . . . 1.50 SIMPLICITY AND FASCINATION: A Tale of the English Gentry.  10EO MAINSTONE'S HOUSt: K :FPER    .   ........    LE0O THE QUEEN OF THE COUNTY.      ..    . . .  1.50 MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS ......          1.50 BROKEN TO HARNESS. By EDMUND YATES.  . .   .   l RUNNING THE GAUNTLET, .    ........         1.50 A LOST LOVE, By AS1HFORD OWEN.  . . .        1.26 "NNET'S TRIAL, By the Author of "TWICE LOST." . . . . 1,25 MOODS, An American Novcl. By LOUISA M. ALCOTT. . . . 1.25 INTO THE LIGHT or, THE JEWESS.  .......        1.650 THEi SOPRANO. A Musical Story. By JANE KINGSFORD. . . 1,00 MY PARIS. French Character Sketches. By EDMUND KINGs, of the Sprinygfield Republican. "A delightful, chatty book, everybody must read." 1.50 JUDGE NOT: or, HESTER POWERS' GIRLHOOD, A book for Girls. . 1.25 MLLY: or, THE HDDEN CROSS. A Romance of School Life, . . 1.25 HELEN FORD, A Romance of New York City Life, By HOIATIO ALGER, jr. 1.25 Alger's Books for Boys. RAGGED DICK SERIES,  5 Vols. Cloth. "UCK AND PLUCK SERIES,  1 Vol. Cloth. CAMPAIGN SERIES. 3 Vols. Cloth. THE BREAKWATER SERIES. By VIRGINIA F. TOWNSEND. 3 Vols. Cloth.   JU1 1116jb O      1iH   s UiiIt"iiviIa. THE STORY OF MRS. SHAKSPEARE'S LIFE, "A Burlesque of Lady Byron's." A ROMAN LAWYER IN JERUSALEM: FIRST CENTURY By W. W. STORY. "An ingenious defence of Judas Iscariot." FARMNG AS A PROFESSION. How Ohas. Loring Made it P By 1). T. A. BLAND. TALES OF EUROPEAN LIFE. RATIONAL TEMPERANOE. By HENRY G. SPAULDIfG, SORRENTO WOOD CARVING. What it Is. How to Do it HOWARD PAUL'S JOKES. Profusely Illustrated. MARION BERKLEY. A Story for Girls. Boarding-School Li By LAURA CAXTON. With Illustrations by the Autlor. BEN, THE LUGGAGE BOY. The fifth "Ragged Dick" book. FLOWERS THE YEAR    ROUND.   Evory Lady 'her -O Gardener. VIOLETTA  AND  I. ROBERT FALOONER. By GEORGE MAcDONALD.  MOTHlIt; GOOSE FOR GROWN FOLKS.       
         
       
   
