
    ----CITATION----
        Martin, Clara Barnes, (d.1886). The Story of Muff .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7210
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE STORY OF MUFF. 
               A CONTRIBUTION TO THE FAIR OF THE SECOND PARISH, FOR THE PAYSON MEMORIAL CHURCH. 
             
            
               PORTLAND: 
               SHORT AND LORING,
             
            1868. 
             
            
               PRESS OF B. THURSTON AND CO., PORTLAND.
             
          
          
            A GREAT FIRE is like a great battle, in that each man knows only what he sees close about himself-and so, in after-times, a thousand different tales are told. 
            One episode in the history of the fatal night of the Fourth of July, 1866, is recorded in these pages, which I dedicate to the memory of the Old Homes of Portland. 
          
       
      
         
            The story of Muff 
             
                
               MUFF is a cat-a great, gray cat, with broad white bosom, and such dainty white gloves and slippers! I saw him sitting, this afternoon, on the window seat, beside his mistress's work-basket, and I could scarcely believe the story they told me of his rescue, after the great fire, all smirched and scorched with smoke and cinders. 
               I need not tell you where he lived-for the terrible disaster, which swept over the beautiful city of Portland, last fourth of July, is only too well known. His home was a large old-fashioned house, on a quiet street, shaded by noble elms. The green yard in front had a broad walk, that led up to the great steps, where Muff and the children had many a merry play. Alas! that neither pets nor children shall cross that threshold more! Along the path, the tall white summer-lilies were in full bud-the crimson cluster-roses were just in their prime, and the broad bed of fringed pinks was fresh and fragrant, that ill-fated day. Indoors, were large cool rooms, low-ceiled but deep-windowed, hung round with old portraits, and set about with spider-legged tables and chairs. The china closet was full of rare old treasures, for Captain Vaughan sailed his own ship out of Portland harbor, for over thirty years, and he never came home without remembering his wife's pride in her china. The wide front entry led through the house to the garden door, that opened on a long brick walk, and a woodbine trellis. There had once been a gay garden there, but now the grass had grown round the rows of box. Only a standard pear, one white rose tree, and a bed of mignonette were left. Up stairs, were tall presses, with generous store of blankets and linen, still left, after the well-answered calls of the Sanitary Commission. The best chamber, with cushioned chairs and curtained bed of spotless dimity, stood ever ready for the welcome guest. "Mother's room"-the sunniest of all, bright with its gay chintz, and its open fire on chill evenings, had been, to many sons and daughters, a refuge and a delight. Beyond, was the nursery. The well-worn carpet showed the tread of little feet, and the tall fender still barred the grate. The old clock on the stairs ticked nigh upon its hundredth year, and children's children pattered up and down. Hither, the Captain had brought his bride, half a century ago, and thence, his children had gone out, one after another, to new homes, and thence, latest of all, the old Captain himself, full of years and honors, was carried to his long home. Only grandmamma Vaughan was left now, with Mary, the youngest of the flock, to wait, year after year, as the absent ones came back for the beauty and freshness of the summers, in the dear old town. This year, the old house renewed its youth, for Rob and Alice, aged seven and five, children of a son, who, like his father, followed the sea, were left in aunt Mary's charge, while their mother accompanied her husband. 
               It was a quiet house, but the children were always happy there. Kind, old friends of grandmamma were often there, and, in many a summer twilight, the fair faces of aunt Mary's young companions brightened the old parlor. There were merry cousins, at uncle James's, far up town, who came on holiday afternoons, to listen to grandmamma's stories, and race about the garden with Muff. 
               It was a home and a household, in no way remarkable, but I have described it, because it was like many and many another, out of which, on that awful night, went women and children, by the hundreds together, leaving their all to the flames. 
               It had been a peaceful sort of day, not much going on in the streets. Rob and Alice had fired crackers and torpedoes on the brick walk, all the morning. Too proud of Muff's glossy coat to risk singeing it with the crackers, they had peppered him with torpedoes, till his nerves and his back could stand it no longer, and he had retreated in utter discomfiture. When the bells rang at noon, uncle James came in, and helped them fire their last bunch, in a barrel, with which grand fusillade, they finished their celebration bration. Uncle James promised to return, to take them to see the fire-works-"but," he added "there is a strong south wind rising. Perhaps they will put off the show. You do not feel it here in the shelter of the house, but it blows hard, and the clouds look as if more was coming." 
               So, each went his way-aunt Mary and Alice to put on white dresses in honor of the day, and Rob, to wash off the powder-stains, to be ready for the salmon and strawberries of the holiday dinner. They had scarcely risen from table, before aunt Mary had to shut the front door and the parlor windows, for the air was full of dust. All the people who passed by, were holding on to their hats or bonnets, and looked as if they had almost lost their last breath in the wind. But it was very pleasant in the old parlor. All the vases were full of flowers, and grandmamma sat in the great straight-backed chair, and told them stories of fourth of July, when she was a little girl. 
               Meanwhile Muff had betaken himself to his own abode in a little room over the summer kitchen. Muff was grandmamma's special pet. He had lived with her more than a dozen years-had attended five of the family weddings, and when the old Captain died, he refused to be comforted, but sat, all day, at the door of the dead man's room, waiting for the morning greeting to which he had been accustomed. He had seen many generations of cats and dogs come and go, among the neighbors, and had come to be regarded as a sort of patriarch-a guardian of the public peace. 
               Waiting up stairs till the silence of the children's voices told him the coast was clear, he made his way down, and set forth upon his daily rounds, from which, his curiosity as to what Rob and Alice were about, had detained him. Muff was a favorite with his friends, so that he was welcomed in the neighboring kitchens and sheds by both cook and cat. It was only a step down the garden fence and round a post, and then over the wood-pile to a little window, where he could peep in upon Madame Finette, a pretty little black-and-tan terrier. I doubt if she was glad to see him, that day, for how could a mother with nine sons and daughters to take care of, stop to entertain company? So she showed her white teeth and growled a little at him, and then curled down again, beside her rat-like babies, as much as to say, "Not at home." So Muff went on, through the clothes-yard and down the garden, up the back of the summer-house, to the top of the fence, where he could look over to the back piazza of a little brown house where lived, as Alice reported after her first visit, "two such dear old ladies, and such darling cats." The darling cats, three together were keeping fourth of July on the piazza, round a saucer of custard, which Miss Gratia Wrenn had set out as their share of the holiday feast. Muff was welcome, for did not he and "Old Puss," the grandmother of the group, come in the same basket, kittens together, from Newburyport, years ago? Mistress Conny, (short for "Contraband," for she was black as black could be) made room for him on the side, where he could best see the gay cockade, she wore in honor of the day. The kitten-"a little black slug," Rob called it-it curled itself, so round and flat, on the floor-slept quietly, while the friends gossipped over their dainty,-heard Muff's terror's of the morning, and how Miss Horatia and Miss Gratia had slept never a wink, all night, for fear of being burnt up, in their beds, by those wicked fire-crackers. 
               In-doors, dressed in their Sunday best, sat the two sisters, aged and wrinkled-for had not Miss Horatia been carried from her cradle when the British burned Falmouth? But the wrinkles were the traces of smiles, for theirs was a happy old age, under the roof, which had sheltered them, for eighty years and odd. Miss Horatia read the Christian Mirrror of the week, while Miss Gratia took her afternoon nap in the rocking-chair. All the while the wind was rushing through the great horse-chestnut, that darkened the sitting-room, till a wilder gust tore off a long branch of the grape vine and blew it with a crash across the windows, waking Miss Gratia with a start, and sending the frightened cats away off behind the currant bushes. 
                
               "It must be past four," thought Muff; so, he trotted round to his own front yard, not without stopping, more than once, for the blinding dust and flying leaves, and reached the broad stone-step, all strown with crimson and white petals from the cluster rose and the syringas, just as the Third Parish bell rang out, quick and sharp, an alarm of fire. Aunt Mary opened the front door to look out, but the whirl of the wind left her no chance to see, and she retreated, only giving Muff time to slip in, when he was seized by Rob, and carried off to the nursery, to enact, with Alice, the part of audience, for his fourth of July oration. 
               The bell soon stopped, and the alarm seemed over, only from the upper window they could see, above the elms, a column of smoke, but so far off to the south, that even grandma paid little heed. Presently, Norah O'Brien, the cook, came hurrying home, mindful of the belated supper. 
               "But oh! Miss Mary, sure, and it was the big fire!-the big mill on the wharf, and them old sheds, and the Foundry!-and it all began in that little boat-shop, this side Bridget Conover's my cousin,-and isn't it the good luck for Bridget and the childer, that their house is over beyont it, else never a roof would they have to their heads, this blessed night? And sure, and they say its the grate Sugar House that'l burn yit, and me and the women stood laughing at the old boat-house, to see it smoke, and niver thought to say 'fire!'" 
               The column of smoke grew broader and blacker. The southerly gale swept it along in great masses, almost over their heads. People went hurrying by, the neighbors were opening their scuttles to look out, and pretty soon, the black soot and cinders began to fall in the front yard, but they had come so far the fire was out. There could be no danger from a fire, a mile away. Rob begged to go out, and after much entreaty, aunt Mary consented, and he set forth, under Norah's charge. The passers-by reported the Sugar House burning-then, it was up in York street. Then, a neighbor, returning home, stopped to say "the fire was breaking through into Cross street. It was very dreadful, but they must be thankful they were safe! No doubt, it must cross the city, but it could not come below the First Parish church, at farthest." 
               Then grandma and aunt Mary waited and watched, while the gray light of the cloudy day changed, not to twilight or darkness, but to a lurid glare. The great elm branches tossed to and fro against the crimson sky, and threw ghastly shadows across the street and garden. 
               Rob and Norah came home, half frightened, half wild, with the strange excitement. "Middle street," Rob said, "was all full of chairs and kitchen things, and a piano on the sidewalk, and carpets in the dirt! And they saw an Irishman carrying his pig, and a woman carrying a barrel of flour"-"and oh! aunt Mary! one poor little boy was fast asleep, right on the hard bricks, in Middle street!" At this, Alice burst out crying so pitifully, that for a few minutes, all were busy in consoling her with assurances that she was safe, and should go to sleep in her own little bed, whither she accordingly went, with Muff in her arms, for a comforter. 
               Muff himself had, by this time, discovered something amiss, and was willing enough to get out of sight, on the dark side of the house, if aught could be dark, under that fiery sky. 
               The old clock on the stairs struck nine. Aunt Mary listened, from force of habit, for the nine o'clock bell, and then was, for the first time, conscious that the distant roar had come nearer. Some sounds were separating themselves and assuming distinctness. Could that be the crash of falling walls? or that explosion, like a cannon, the blowing up of houses? Was that awful flame coming nearer? Would it sweep over them?-and with a sudden throb of terror, her heart stood still, as she thought of herself, alone with her aged mother, the sleeping child, the helpless boy. Where, oh! where was her brother? But, almost with the thought, she heard his step in the lower entry, and sprang to meet him. "Oh! what?-where"?-was all she could say, still under the spell of the first conception of the possibility of danger. 
               "Not here, yet!" were his re-assuring words. "It must take the heart of the city now, for it is almost upon Middle street. When I left my office, it was coming up Union street, as fast as a man could walk-but the Custom-house must stop it,-"it can't pass there. It was like a charge of cavalry on the street. We have saved almost everything, but many a man has lost his all. Thank God, this dear old home is still safe!"-as Mary recovered her presence of mind, and could smile again. 
               "Don't let mother be frightened. I must not stop now, for every man is needed," and worn and tired as he looked, he turned to go, but pausing on the step, an instant, he came back, saying-"But, at any rate, I will take--, no! it is foolish! the fire certainly will stop! Yet perhaps, it may be best; I will take father's portrait, but don't let mother know it! And, Mary, do you remember the old canvass fire-bags, that were grandfather's, up in the north attic? Should you be afraid to look for them-if--" and the man's voice quivered, one instant, for that was the home of all their life,-"they might be useful you know. But, at any rate, be sure I will come back!" 
               No thought of fear for her now! The something to do, gave her, as it did many another weak woman, in that scene of dismay, the strength and courage of heroes. Sure that her mother, who sat watching the sleeping Alice, was still secure from alarm, she called Rob to hold her lamp. In another moment, she was pulling the old bags out of the corner, where she had often wondered at them, when a child, as the remains of some dark age, when fire-engines were not, and neighbors had far to come. To drag them down the narrow stairs to her own room, was an easy task-but, how to tell her mother of the need upon them? Rob's quick impulse had been before her. "Grandma! grandma! come help us pack the big bags! and can't we put Muff in, so he will be safe?" 
               "Mary! my child!" in her own soft voice, was all the old lady said, as she met her daughter, but on her placid face there came a smile-though Mary thought not of it then, nor remembered it till long after, and then with sorrowful weeping,-as if, with the summons thus to give up the home of her youth, the shelter of her age, there was sent a vision of "the house not made with hands," to which she stood so near! 
               Mary drew up the curtain to look again at the sky. It was no longer smoke and light, but the shooting, flashing flames rose, over the elms, in purple and crimson. Carts and wagons, loaded with household stuff, were hurrying by. Lights were flitting about the upper rooms of the neighboring houses. The alarm was spreading. It could no longer be concealed-the fire had passed the utmost bound of their foreboding. 
               Still that pitiless wind rattled the window-pane. 
               Scant time had they to choose what of the household gods to carry with them out of the burning city. It might be minutes only,-to decide among the relics of a life-time, where every shelf had its recollection, and every drawer, its memory. Miniatures, the Family Bible, and silver, the quaint old heir-looms of more than a century, with what clothing would fill the bags, was all they could hope to save-and again the sense of loneliness almost overpowered Mary, as she sought for warm shawls to protect her mother and Alice, on their midnight walk, if go they must. Rob watched by Alice, his little heart swelling within him-"would nobody come to help them?-when Patrick's house was burned, up on the hill, there were hundreds there, and they pulled everything out! Wont anybody come to save papa's books, and grandpa's secretary?" Alas! alas! long ere this, some of the strongest had lain down in utter exhaustion! Thousands of hands and feet could not have done the work that was needed that night! 
               On came the awful blast, merciless, remorseless, over-leaping, over-lapping, sweeping through busy street and quiet lane; rolling over roof and spire; sparing neither the delights of home, nor the sanctities of the church; the relics of the dead, nor the treasures of the living; the memories of age, nor the hopes of youth! The venerable blind, the helpless invalid, who could not so much as venture her foot to the ground for delicateness, the dead child from its coffin, the new-born babe from its cradle, must, all alike, forth into the night, at a command more terrible than Death's! 
               Mr. Vaughan, on leaving the old house, had lost no time in searching for some sort of carriage to remove his mother, as every moment made the completeness of the impending disaster more apparent; but everything of the sort had long since been seized upon for the earlier removals. His own horse had been lent before night, and was nowhere to be found. The hours seemed days in his search, and flakes of fire were falling in the garden, as he drove up to the back gate, with a little light wagon, a countryman had just come to town in. It would take his mother at least. Great was his relief, to find standing in the kitchen, a broad-shouldered Irishman, whom Norah presented as, "a cousin of mine, sir?" Coming in, to look for his friend, he had rendered vital service, in putting out the fire which had caught on the top of the shed, and now waited to aid in the departure. 
               Norah who had been alternately lamenting "the week's wash, all lying so swate and clean, in the baskets up stairs," and "the iligant dishes, the old Captain had brought from over the say," was wrapping ping up a loaf of bread; "for sorry a bit of bread there'll be in the town, the morn, with all of us burnt up alive. And wasn't it meself, that saw the big flour mill, all tumbling down with the fire!'" 
               Mrs. Vaughan and her daughter stood ready, if that could be readiness, which had no preparation, in the dining-room, where the light was least vivid, that Alice might not be frightened. For the moment, their chief care was poor Muff. He had crept away from grandmamma and Alice, at the first alarm, had startled Aunt Mary and Rob in their search for the bags, by his glowing eyes behind the chimney-had trotted in and out, in a curious sort of disturbance, as the packing went on, occasionally stopping to rub his head against his mistress. But when, as they closed the last bag, Rob, returning to his first thought, said, "but you haven't put in Muff!" the cat was missing. To desert him was cruel. Hastily calling him through all the rooms, they were abont to give up the search as hopeless, when Rob discovered him, his ears crested and his eyes shining in the firelight, behind the curtain, on the window sill, in the upper front entry, where he had often hidden, when tired of the children's play. Rob captured him, and he was now securely shut up in the china closet. 
               Their council was hurried. Mr. Vaughan hoped to have time to return, after taking his mother and Alice to his own house. If not, at the worst, aunt Mary and Rob could walk safely, with Norah and Dennis Crogan or--, "stay! If Alice could walk, he could save Willy's picture"-wee Willy, his mother's first-born, gone safe to heaven, five and forty years before! Norah was ready to carry Miss Alice "to the world's end;" and at any rate, he should meet them before they had gone far, if it seemed unsafe to wait. The little wagon, patched and frail, at the best, could only take himself and his mother, with the most precious of the bags-and, by leaving Alice, the portrait. Crogan would drag another bag, with Norah to help. The other two must be left. "But Muff?" Knotting his handkerchief firmly over the cat's head and front paws, Mr. Vaughan found he was so far helpless, as to make it possible, perhaps, for Rob, a strong boy of his age, to carry him at least out of the range of the fire. Mary had reserved her writing desk for her own hands. 
               Thus ordered, they opened the front door to set forth, but shrank back in terror, at the sight before them. All the air was filled with sparks of fire, like a whirlwind of fast-falling snow. Above them, the street was all aglow. Escape that way, was impossible. They must go, far round as it was, by the lower street, through which Mr. Vaughan had come to the garden gate. 
               Still that relentless wind fanned the hot fury of the devouring flame. 
               The brazen knocker clanged as Mr. Vaughan forced to the door with all his strength, and the rusty key grated in the huge lock, as Mary turned it, with a thought, "It may not burn, yet! I will at least lock out robbers!" The others hurried on, but she lingered for a moment at the parlor door. Except the two portraits, nothing had been moved, not a book or flower, since the happy morning. The music lay on the piano, her work on the table, "Felix Holt" and "Our Young Folks," on the sofa. She thought of the white spare chamber, all ready for the expected summer guests,-her mother's room, the sanctuary of the house,-the dear old nursery,-the rooms of her brothers and sisters,-her own shady windows, far up among the elm-branches, and her heart grew faint, in the agony of longing to see them once more. 
               The old clock on the stairs struck twelve,- 
                      
                        "Forever-never! 
                        Never-forever!" 
                     
                  
                
               "Mary, Mary!" called her brother, "are you wild? The church is all on fire! You are lost if you stay!" Taking Alice's hand, she went out, and the garden door locked itself behind her, and she stood-homeless! Yet with that keenness of sense, by which the brain, in moments of terror and peril, notes even trifles, she caught the scent of the mignonette, as they crossed the old garden, and knew, that on the white rose-bush, the first bud, which she and Alice had watched since Sunday, had opened since noon. 
                     "Oh flowers! that never will in other climates grow!"
                   Was even Eden dearer, than the home she was leaving, with the flaming sword descending upon it? 
               The gate opened upon a lane, through which the way was easy, though the breath of the swift-coming destroyer was hot upon their cheeks. At the little brown house, the sitting-room shutters were flung wide, the lamp burned alone on the table, but the front door was open-the sisters were gone. 
               Once upon the street, their progress was more difficult. Here, there was still hope. An engine was at work on the corner. Men were on the roofs, and even a woman, lashed by a rope to a chimney, stood throwing water. The side-walk was covered with motley piles-some, twice, thrice, nay, seven times removed, to be burned at last. Anxious faces looked out of the door-ways. Pleading voices asked, in vain, for help. Over all, was the deep hoarse roar of the fire, like the distant rush and roll of angry surf. Bending their heads before the blinding light, they made their way past two or three squares, till Rob could no longer hold Muff. In the pitiful ignorance, which prevents dumb animals from knowing their best friends, the poor cat was struggling to escape from his courageous little deliverer. Aunt Mary offered to take him, though that involved the sacrifice of her precious desk, for Crogan and Norah were already over-burdened. "No! no!" said Rob, "put the desk on my head, and I'll carry it, as the little negroes in cousin George's camp, carried the water pails." So the exchange was made, though not without frantic efforts to escape, on Muff's part, and a sad scratching of aunt Mary's arms, for she still wore the thin white muslin of the summer noon. Hardly had they resumed their walk, when they were startled by a scream of terror behind them. Two little girls had been following them, carrying some light clothing in their arms. One of them was protected by a water-proof cloak, but the bundle of the younger had taken fire from the thick-falling sparks. She had dropped it upon the sidewalk, and the two were trying to stifle the flame, which had spread to the child's own dress. Crogan sprang to her, and grasping her in his arms, extinguished the fire before the child was really hurt. Miss Vaughan asked their names, and whither they were going? They scarcely knew. "Father was gone to sea. Mother was sick. They thought she would be burnt in her bed,-but some men came and took her in a blanket. They laid her on the side-walk, first. They did not know where she was now. A cousin lived "down on the dump." They wanted to go there." 
               "Come with us now," said Miss Vaughan, "and then Mr. Crogan shall take you to your friend." The little dresses, all the child had left in the world, were by this time almost burned up, and the fragments were blowing off, across the street. Right over them, towards the path of the fire, bounded a little dark figure,-and aunt Mary bethought herself, that in her start of horror at the child's instant danger, she had forgotten the strong clasp necessary to hold Muff, and he had sprang from her arms. A stinging pain in her right hand and the fast-trickling blood showed, how resolute had been the struggle, by which the poor pet had freed himself from the handkerchief that bound him. Rob and Alice began to cry, but there was no help for it-Muff was gone, right back towards his home-gone to certain death! 
               No words can tell how weary was the way, along that noble shaded street, through which the children had laughed and played, on many a summer morning. At last, they were beyond the range of the flames, and sat down to rest, on a low stone wall. Here, Crogan proposed to leave the bag behind the wall, and to carry Rob the rest of the way. 
               "Why don't uncle James come?" had been the boy's sorrowful question, again and again. It was more than a long hour, since they started; he should have met them, long since. A gentleman passed them, looking anxiously right and left. "Uncle James!" screamed Alice,-and as much to his own, as to his sister's relief, he stood beside them. He had taken his mother safely home, but returning, a loaded dray, furiously driven against the little wagon, had totally wrecked it. He had escaped himself, strange to say, unhurt, though almost stunned by the collision, and had been seeking them along the streets. The addition of the little girls to the group, had prevented his recognizing them in the strange fire-light. 
               Rob took heart again, on his uncle's re-appearance, and insisted upon walking, the rest of the way; so Crogan departed with the little girls, promising to return and see the bag safe in X-street, before morning. 
               Sadly they went on their way. Distance gave some relief to their dazzled eyes, and aunt Mary and Rob could give some heed to uncle James's hurried account. "It was a clean sweep, from the Sugar House to Munjoy,-nothing left! Would this horrible night never end? But oh!-the morning! What sorrow it would see!" 
               "And oh!-the trees! the trees!" said aunt Mary, as they turned down State street, "the dear old elms!"-and a shiver of loneliness and desolation passed over her, as she looked up to the familiar windows of "happy homes"-alas! herself-homeless! No more "the household fire," the evening lamp for her! The church clock, hard by, struck two, as they reached her brother's door-but, long ere that, the old home, the elms, the roses, were wrapped in a sheet of flame. 
               All night long, the wrathful tempest never stopped nor stayed. Up in the grave-yard, beside the dead, all night, sat frightened women and children, with dim strained eyes, fighting the fire in the dry grass, while, close upon them, among the outer rows of graves, it scorched, and scathed, and smouldered, till the very grave-mounds charred and crumbled to dust. The old slate-stones cracked and shivered to splinters, and the thick marble bent in the glowing heat. 
               The broad July sun came up, upon smoking ruins and thousands of homeless! 
               
                  "The young children ask bread, and no man breaketh it to them. They, that did feed delicately, are desolate in the streets."
                  "How is the city of praise not left, the city of my joy!"
                  "O vine of Sibmah! I will weep for thee! the spoiler hath fallen upon thy summer fruits and thy vintage!"
                
               Yet in all those crowds, they say it, who saw it, was not a murmur or complaint. Patient courage and resolute hope braced every soul. Nor was help far off. Wherever Fire, was still the useful, domestic sprite, not the terrible destroying demon of the night, kind hands were busy. All over the land, generous hearts were stirred at the tale of sorrow. By noon, loaded trains were speeding from East and from West. God bless the hearts and hands that sprang so instantly to our relief, in that hour of bitter need! 
               The next day, grandmamma and aunt Mary were too exhausted to think much, or remember. One and another came and went, with sorrowful sympathy. Rob and Alice talked of lost balls and hoops, but, most of all, mourned for poor Muff. 
               Cousin Charles went out to carry soup, and came with stories to make one's heart ache. The great school-yard was full of hungry, tired, women and children. Men were asleep on the sidewalks and doorsteps. Down town, was all heat and smoke and burning cellars. The car rails were like twisted serpents along the streets. His shoes were crisped with walking over the hot sidewalks. 
               With evening, came uncle John, from Boston. It seemed a little gleam of light, in the gloom that was gathering round them, for a deep darkness was falling on all the city. The street lamps could not be lighted, and the smouldering fires among the ruins, only made the shadows more gloomy. Within doors, were only dim candles, or old lamps, hunted out from odd corners. There were rumors of wild rough men, about the streets, waiting for midnight, to do their deeds of violence. Each man must guard his own that night! Will any one ever forget, how thankful was that once peaceful city, for the protection of the soldiers? 
               Late, the next afternoon, the two brothers sought the old home. Silently, with full hearts, they walked down the desolate streets, where no sign nor trace of human life was left. In one brief night, the storms of centuries had swept by. White and hoar, the ruins lay, like the dead cities of long ago. Above them, rose the trees,-gaunt, stark skeletons,-the branches that waved, in the light and greenness and beauty of summer, now stretched, stiff and straight, northward, in piteous appeal from their doom,-dumb witnesses of death, against the blast that overwhelmed them! 
               Who can speak the thoughts of the brothers, as they stopped in the well-known street? Something more than half the front wall of the old house was left, so that the afternoon sky stared blankly upon them, through the windows of "mother's room," out of which, they had looked their first, on life. Oppressed by the dreariness and hopelessness of the scene, they turned to cross the yard, to pick up a few fragments, as mementoes, when something crept round the corner of the house. The brothers almost held their breath, as it came, very slowly, very softly, over the heaps of broken brick, to the broad doorstep. 
               It was Muff himself! Yet, how changed, his look, ow altered, his mien!-his glossy coat all rent and torn, his white gloves and slippers, all black and scorched, and one fore-foot, he scarcely touched to the ground, as he walked. Through what terrors untold, had not the poor fellow come?-terrors of blinding light, and drifting smoke-of burning heat, and of deep darkness-of hurrying crowds-and of lonesome streets-led by the strange instinct, that bound him to his home,-come, to find at last, that home, a ruin! 
               He paused on the broad stone, as if he knew his play-ground-then, resting his fore-paw on the sill, stretched his neck to look through. He drew back, then looked again, then up over his head, at the familiar door-way-then smelt of the stone, then gave another long look, over the sill to the right, and to the left, then, slowly turned, perplexed and baffled, by the strange sight before him. Mr. James Vaughan caught him in his arms, before he left the step, in great thankfulness, to save the household pet alive. For they had seen that, on their way through the garden of the little brown house, of which I should not like to tell you. Only, no one ever saw, "Old Puss," nor her daughter, nor "the little black slug," any more! Poor Madame Finette was carried away by her master, with her nine sons and daughters, but she escaped and ran back to her bed, and though twice rescued again, perished at last! 
               Very tenderly, they carried the dear old cat to X-- street, to be nursed by aunt Mary and the children, and the first tears that grandmamma shed, after the fire, were when uncle James laid Muff, all smutty and dusty as he was, in her arms. 
               In the end of the summer, the children's father and mother came for them. When October's leaves were brightest, aunt Mary took Muff, to a new home, which the tenderest love had been preparing for her. 
               The hopes of youth may bloom again to new beauty and grace, but the heart of the aged, knows no second Spring. 
               The winter wind whistles through the vacant windows of the old home,-the winter snow is piled high upon the deserted hearth,-but grandmamma, the beloved, the revered, is at peace, in the House of many Mansions. 
               
                  FEBRUARY, 1867.
                
             
         
       
   
