
    ----CITATION----
        Leonhart, Rudolph, (1832-). Dolores .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7070
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Dolores 
            
               DOLORES:
A Tale of Maine and Italy.
BY
RUDOLPH LEONHART, A. M.

AUTHOR OF
"Light and Shade;" "A Poets Life in America;" "The Mysterious Pedlar;"
"The Guerilla;" "Who is it?" "The Plot of 75." etc.

PITTSBURGH, PA., 1870:
ER NST LUF T, JOB PRINTER AND BOOK BINDER, SIXTH AvENwE.

4

i iT
.  }
t
j{ '
51
x
T
r

-               ,
aj('
.d1 s  '.                  '          euAvvCC: t   7    ,'
j

_I


iRntered according to act of Congress in the year 1870, by
RUDOLPH LEONHAREE
in the office of the Librairian of Congress, at Washington.

F F       ,
r
f t ';
T'3
g:
Y  )
' ,    i,
!   -
+   'i
J  {r  ..
ti {
1
S!!     S
f  ,    f
i
"               1
'      t
III    )
4"
f
d . Y
r

DOLOR S.
0-
CHAPTER I.
THE Sounds of a barrelorgan vibrate through the evening air.
"Home, sweet home" floats sweetly on the waves of the breeze,
that fans the face of the pleasant valley. The music is in keep-
ing with the charming landscape, which streches from the rock-
bound, but picturesque and romantic coast of Maine-but the
musician is not; and the glance, we cast on him, jars unpleasant-
ly with the feeling of contentment, that has imperceptibly stolen
over us. The man is evidently a foreigner, a native of the sunny
land, that boasts of Rome and Naples and his pale, careworn face
shows plainly, that he is deeply sensitive to the tune, he plays.
Home! sweet home! Alas ! no people in the world are so devoted-
ly attached to their native country, as the Italians. Even the
most prosperous rof that race never overcome a yearning for
"'beautiful Italy" and yet our minstrel does not belong to fort-
une's favorites. He surely misses his native country; for his hol-
low eye mirrors a melancholy sadness, a pain intense to distrac-
tion. The fickle, changing clime of the new world does not agree
with his constitution and even a careless observer can hardly fail
to discover, that consumption, the arch destroyer of America's
youth and strength, has made a fearful havoc upon the musician's
form, once so noble and vigorous. His cheeks are hollow though
covered with a treacherous bloom; his body has become emaciat-
,ed to the thinness of a skeleton and only his eyes have retained
their lustre. Yes, they have even gained in brilliancy and in con-
nection with the hair of raven blackness, which surrounds his
temples in rich profusion, impart to his face a ghastly pallor, pain-
ful to behold. His strength is gone; for, though relieved of the
weight of the instrument by a supporting frame, on which it stands,
his hand turns the crank with a languor, inexpressibly sad. In

,  _ - .,
. . i' R' S      } f'


4                       DOLORES.
consequence of this the air, so tei er in itself, assumes a mourn-
ful sadness, apt to bring tears int our eyes. It has that effect at
least upon a little girl, standing c ose by the wandering minstrel's
side and holding in a caressing manner his unengaged hand. She.
seems to be about twelve years of age and a family resemblance
lets us guess the relation of father and daughter between the two.
She has his black waving tresses and the large lucid eye, though
the color of the latter is more of a bluish, than a blackish tint.
The child is poorly clad, as is the man and the tattered dress
of faded silk half covers, half reveals a body of perfect propor-
tions, but yet too angular for our ideas of beauty. The frock only
reaches to the knee, leaving the leg beneath it and the foot ex-
posed. The child presses her father's hand with earnest devotion
to her cheek and the sad and tender glance with which she scans,.
his face, betrays a depth of feeling and an understanding beyond
her years. Does she fully comprehend the precarious condition
of her father's health? the delicacy of the tie, that unites them
and may be ruptured by the first rough contact with the world?
We do not know; but we know, that the group before us, if not of
ideal beauty, is such as the sculptor or painter likes to choose,
when he intends, to remind us of the frail mortality of our race.
The pair stands on the highroad leading through one of those
pretty villages, which only New-England can show. One side of
it is lined with little cottages encased in pretty gardens and the
other with an iron railingenclosing the pleasure grounds of a stately
mansion looming with grace and elegance from the dense cluster
of surrounding shrubs and trees. Opposite the Italian and his-
daughter the railing curves inward, and displays a handsome
double gate, shutting up a broad well kept carriagedrive, whose
.sides are adorned with gay flowerbeds in full bloom. The road,
running at right angles against the sea, is lost in clusters of bush-
es, above which the blue expanse of water, dotted with distant
sails becomes visible. Turning landward, the pike win s through
broad valley, dotted with farmhouses and orchards nd closed
in the distance by a sweep of semicircular woodlandranges,.which
with their terminus lean on the ocean. The road after leaving
the village passes through the-buildings of a large factory and at
last creeps over the hills, looking like the ribbon, with which we
tie a garland.' The suni approaching the western sky betokens

DOLORES.                         5
the neighborhood of the evening hours, whose freshness will
pleasantly relieve the intense heat of a sultry summerday. From
the factory above mentioned a stream of men  id women pours
into the street, all carrying their dinnerbuckets/and for the most
part wending their way towards the village and turning here and
there into the houses lining the way. Some of them stop, as they
come to the minstrel and his daughter; they listen to the plain-
tive music and then with warm compassion place a coin iqto the
box, which the girl passes round. A sweet smile of the little
-creature and a graceful nod of the head thank them for their
charity and then they part, reflecting on their way on the caprice
of fortune, which metes its favors out with lavish hands to some,
and denies even the indispensable mite to others.
The little girl however hastens back to her father, attracted by
:a violent fit of coughing, which threatens to put a stop not only
to the music, but even to the musician himself. The little one
has no such fears, for, alas, she is used to see her father suffer;
still she knows that after an attack like this he needs her assist-
nee, trifling as it is, for he is almost unable to stand on his feet.
Indeed, as she approaches him, she notices a tremor going
through his feeble frame; his hands rest on the organ for support
his head sinks wearily on his breast and from his mouth issues f
fearful stream of blood, taking away on its currents the last sparks
,of vitality, that remained in the wornout frame.e
A fearful shriek of the girl stops the passers-by and hurrying
near the unfortunate man, they come just in time to receive the
sinking form into their arms and thus save it front a rough fall
upon the ground. They carry him to the greensward lining
the side of the road next-to the railing and busy themselves about
him with the confusion of people, not exactly knowing what to
do. While some hurry for the doctor, others cry for water and
endeavor to stop the blood, which still continues to ooze from
the mouth, though .with lessened violence. Alas the poor fellow
had but little of the precious liquid and the fountain drying up,
the current of course began to slacken. The people around him
shook their heads and with pitying countenances gazed upon the
little girl, kneeling at the side of her father, holding his hands in
hers and with pleading fervor calling on him, to return to consci-
ousness and her. She used a foreign tongue, but yet the crowd


6                      DOLORES.
understood her, for there is a language, which every body com-
prehends, the language of love and sadness. There were few eyes
dry in that assembly and many seemed more affected, than the
child itself. No wonder! the poor thing was half stupified and
failed to realize the greatness of the loss in store for her. The
hemorrhage had frightened her, but she scarcely understood the
significance of the 1 enomenon. Her father had suffered so much
and so long, that sie failed to comprehend the fact of his near
release, his deliverance from all further trouble.'
Now the doctor made his appearance. He gazed a moment and
shook his head. Looking around in the crowd, that was increas-
ing every minute, he said:
"My friends, this man is dying; we must take him to some
shelter. Is there nobody present, that lives close by and is will-
ing to lend his roof to a suffering fellow-mortal, to die in peace?"
.Several voices responded to the call; but at this moment the
stamp of hoofs and the rolling of carriagewheels became audible
and a minute afterwards a welldressed gentleman accompanied by
a little girl stepped into the circle. The crowd drew back re-
spectfully and from this and other signs we conclude that the new
comer holds a conspicuous position in the neighborhood. He is
a portly man of medium size, between 35 and 40. His dress is of
fine material and fashionable cut, but he wears it with a careless
ease, approaching slovenliness. His face is broad and good-
natured and as his eyes gaze upon the dying stranger, they show
a sympathy and compassion, that cannot help impressing us favor-
ably as to the character of the man. The only thing we do not
like, is the ltoseness of the lower face, the want of expression
around the mouth, which, as psychologists assure us, indicates a
lack of firmness and decision.   The little girl seems of the same
age as the Italian's daughter ; but she is of a very different type..
While the child of the south is thin, angular, with sunburnt skin
and black hair, the new comer bears the impress of the north..
Her complexion is of a snowywhiteness, her hair of a hue bet-
ween gold and flax.  Dimples adorn her chin and the plump
cheeks, over which the glow of health is spread in a manner more
distinct, than delicate. Her lips vie in color with the cherry and
the eyes are of a light but charming blue. The face lacks nothing-
but intellect, to make it attractive; it has the beauty of the waxen

DOLORES.                         7
doll, in which we miss nothing so much, as the absence of anima-
tion. Timidly the girl holds on to her father's coat; but as she
peeps around, to she the poor invalid, we notice her father's ex-
pression of good nature in her eyes.
"Why, what, is this, Doctor?" asked the new corner "what is
the matter with the poor fellow?"
"A hemorrhage of the worst kind, Mr. Fox. I was just trying
to get the patient under shelter. These people volunteered to take
him to their houses."
"Just like them, good and kind, as ever. But the man would
be troublesome to them; better take him to my.house. There is
lots of room and better accommodations. John, just give the
reins to Richard and come this way. So, who else will lend a
hand? That's right; but gently lads, the poor fellow will feel
every movement. Now take him to the house, lads, to the front
room in the'bas ement. And this is his daughter? ,Poor child,
come give me your hand. No? Well go with your father then. I
reckon you wont have him much longer anyhow, eh Doctor?"
"I fear not Sir. The man may once more return to conscious-
ness, but he cannot live much longer. He is evidently in the last
stage of consumption and this hemorrhage will take him off."
"Well Doctor, do the best you can for him; I'll see to the pay-
ment of the bill. Jim, take that instrument ' off the road and put
it somewhere out of the way. Take care, that Mrs. Fox don't
stumble over it tho', when she returns ; you know, she don't like
vulgar things.'
"Yes Sir," the servant spoken to replied, accompanying his re-
sponse with a knowing look. Taking the organ, he carried it to
the house, trying on the road to elicit some music from it, by turn-
ing the crank. But the fir't sound made him start; it was so
much out of the way on this sad occasion, that Jim avoided the
crank with scrupulous care and taking a back door, executed the
order of his master.
In the meantime the patient had been deposited on the lounge
of a room, that bore the character of something between a library
and a smokingroom. The doctor applied the proper restoratives
and after a few minutes had the satisfaction of seeing him open
his eyes. The little girl had not relinquished herf ather's hand-
for a moment, and now when she saw him returning to- conscious-

I


g                       DOLORES.
ness, she uttered a cry of delight and in her native tongue began
to speak to him. , The Doctor however checked her.
"My dear child" he said, laying his hand upon her shoulder and
bending over her "you must not trouble your father now, for he
is very sick.. If you can be a good girl and keep quiet for a little
while, he may soon be well enough, to speak to you."
The child listened attentively and showed by a nod, that she
understood the physician. . It evidently cost her a struggle, to
obey, but she conquered and regaining hold of her father's hand,
relapsed into silence.
The patient also had heard the doctor and evidently understood
him. A sad smile flitted over his features and moving his lips, he
made an attempt, but failed in .the effort to speak, The 'doctor
noticed it and said:
"Keep still my good man; you are not strong enough to speak
yet. We,l1get you something to strengthen you."
"Shall I send for some wine ?" Mr. Fox inquired.
"You may as well. It would hardly do, to give him wine, if
there was any hope of recovery. But there is not and the stimu-
lus will enable the poor fellow to speak. He may have some-
thing to communicate to us or to his dauo-hter.",
The wine was brought,--a fiery sher  and its effect upon the
dying man was wonderful. His look regained its vivacity, and
his tongue the power of speech. Looking around he seemed to
scrutinize the persons present and at last kept his gaze fixed upon
Mr. Fox. He seemed to guess, that this was the proprietor of
the house and with a feeble gesture beckoned him to his -side.
"You are the master of this house ?" he c asked in low tones and
a foreign accent.
"Yes, Sir, that. I am." Mr. Fox responded with a kind nod,
"and if there is anything I can do for you, just let me know.
You may be sure, that it shall be attended to"
"You are very kind" said the Italian and a smile at once sweet
and melancholy flew over his features. "You are a gentil huomo,
I know and will be kind to my daughter, when I am gone ?"
"Of course Sir, the girl shall be taken care of. If nothing else
troubles your mind, you may die in peace."
The face of the Italian showed a struggle.  At last he said:
"Take the portfolio from my pocket, I am too weak."

DOLORES.
His wish was fulfilled and an elegant diary, evidently a remnant
of better days, produced. On seeing it, the stranger's eye lit up
and his face assumed an aspect of pride and dignity, at once sud-
den and startling.
"You open" he said and Fox, obeying his injunction, produced
several papers, which he handed to the patient.
* "Now listen" said the Italian, making a great effort to speak
clearly and concisely, "I look like a beggar, but oh, I am not an
ordinary one. I was once ? noble duke in my native country;
but wishing to free it from the yoke of Austria I joined an insur-
rection against that power. We failed and incurred the penalty,
attached to such attempts. My poor wife died in this country
from want and exposure, and I follow her from the same cause.
But there is my daughter Dolores- ali! truly has she been nam-
ed; for under sufferings she has been reared, the last member of a
noble race. What is to become of'her? Will she grow up in
ignorance and poverty? Oh! how her destiny afflicts my dying
hour !"
He stopped and covering his face with his hands, betrayed by
groans and sighs the deepness of his sorrow. Again his daughter
spoke to him in Italian, and he listened to her voice, as if angels
had addressed him. Fox was deeply affected by this scene and
wishing to comfort the poor sufferer, repeated his promise to take
care of the girl after her father's death. Still the man seemed not
satisfied ; but turning to the owner of the house, he said with much
hesitancy and indecision.
'But my daughter is the duchess of Gatana; will you raise her
a menial, a low, ignorant servant ?"
Why no" Fox replied,slightly embarrassed'but evidently wish-
ing to spare the feelings of the dying man "if she i0 a lady she
ought to receive the education of one."
"Oh! God bless you; you take a burden off my heart. And you
would be so good as to charge yourself with her education ?"
"Yes Sir, 'I will" said Fox impressed by the earnestness of the
Italian.
"You give me the word of a gentilhuomo ?"
"If you mean the word of a gentleman: I will."
"Thank you, Sir, thank you. You give me ease and comfort.
You swear, to: do it by this symbol ?"


DOLORES.                 31

In his eager efforts for his daughter's welfare the patient's.
strength had much increased and he was able .to pull from his
bosom a.small but beautifully wrought crucifix of gold and ebony
and to hold it to rds Mr. Fox, who as a protestant was some-
thing loth, to ace mmodate himself to the notionsof a catholic.
Still the look of intense suspense in the eye of the dying man was
unendurable and wishing to convince him of the sincerity of his
intention, he laid his hand upon the crucifix and said :
"I swear."
New the Italian seemed satisfied. A deep tranquillity spread
over his beautiful face, which seemed to have lost every trace of
the fatal disease, that had destroyed its owner. lie took his
daughter's hand and said to her :
"Dolores, I must leave you.......-
Before he could proceed, the, impetuous girl was on. her knees
and laying her head close to his, said with a voice almost drown-
ed by sobbing:
"No father dear, you must not leave poor Dolores alone. What
oh what is she to do without her dear father ?"
Tears started from the father's .eye, but checking his emotion
with his whole remaining strength, he said :
"I know you will miss me, Dolores; but you will also get a
good home and a guardian, who will -provide for you, and that you
know, your poor sick father was unable to do. I should like to
live on your account, my dearest child; but at the same time, I
am weary, so weary, that I delight to think, I shall soon steep the
long, deep sleep in the cool ground. Mourn for me my daughter,
but take comfort in the thought, that it is all for the best. 4 Will
my strong, brave Dolores promise this?",
A low "yes" almost stifled .by heartrending sighs came as an
answer from the lips of the little girl.
"That is right, dear" said her father, laying his hand upon herm
curly head. "And you Sir, take care of these papers. They con-
tain the marriage certificate of her parents and a list of her estat-
es. True, they now only exist on paper, for y cruel dynasty has
snatched them from her; but God is merciful and may some day
restore her to her rank and fortune. Take good care of the pa-
pers, Sir."
Fox promised repeatedly, to fulfil all the injunctions of the suf-

r
3
S;
°
.(
L°
i,
P
i

ferer with unswerving fidelity and thereby rendered his last hour
comparatively light and happy ; but the excitement now passing
away left the patient doubly weak and it was evident to all
present that his dissolution was fast approaching. With one of
his hands on his daughter's head and the other enclosed in hers.
lie now and then whispered a word of love and comfort into her
ears, her head still resting close to his. He could no longer speak
loud nor raise his hand to beckon; but an impressive glance meet-
ing the eye of Mr. Fox, that gentleman bent his head to the
patient's ear.
"I am happy" the poor man whispered "and you made me so..
Remember !"
After a while he whispered:
"Dolores"
This was the last word he spoke. When the child raised her
head in response to the call, his eye was becoming fixed and strang-
er to death, that she was, she could not mistake, that the moment.,
which would make her an orphan, was at hand. Bending intently
over his face, she watched every motion of his body. She saw
the last tremor creeping through his limbs, saw his body stretch
and lengthen and felt his hands grow cold in hers. Thus long she
had repressed her grief, perhaps; in obedience to his injunction,
perhaps also from the wish of making his departure as light and
tranquil as possible. This was surely a selfcontrol beyond her
years, but then .a single look upon -her pensive face sufficed, to
show, that she was no ordinary child. Now however she in-
demnified herself for all restraint by an abandonment to grief,
which much alarmed the persons present. She cried and' shriek-
ed and writhed as if in agonies of pain. She threw herself upon
the dead body and clung to him with a veh mence, that made all
efforts to withdraw her vain. She seemed deaf to all persuasions
and entreaties and for more than an hour would suffer no inter-
ference between herself and her grief. At last she calmed downy
more from physical exhaustion, than any abatement of her excited
feelings. She ceased to sob and cry and allowed Mr. Fox.'to take
her hand and speak words of comfort and consolation into her
ear. She suffered his daughter, to take her other hand and gent-
ly stroke it; she even raised her teardimmed eye to that of the
other girl and looked into it with a glance containing wonder-

(

10              DOLORES.

r


12                     DOLORES.
ment, affection and suspicion in a strange mixture. Still she
would not be separated frown the body and only when her eyes
had closed in slumber and her repose had reached the depth of
utter unconsciousness so natural after the exciting scenesthrough
which. she had gone, Mr. Fox was able to take her on his arms
and carry her to a chamber on the second floor, where a chamber-
maid took care of her.
"Be kind to the child, Susan." Mr. Fox enjoined upon her
"make her comfortable with some of Lucy's dresses and put her
to bed. I have to see to matters down stairs."
"Yes sir," the girl replied, but she also looked after him with
the queer look we noticed on the face of Master Jim, when that
worthy carried the organ in. Yet she obeyed his order and tak-
ing the sleeping child into the room, layed her on a bed and un-
dressed her as gently as she could. Lucy stood by and watched
the operation with considerable interest.
"Susan" she asked, "she is to stay with us, is she?"
Susan winced under the question.
"Indeed Lucy, that's more'n I can tell."
"Fither says so, at any rate."
The servant shrugged her shoulder, a gesture meaning perhaps
as much as : "What of that?"  But she said nothing.
"Her name is Dolores" the child said, "do you think it a pretty
name?"
"No Lucy, I dont, nor the child either for that matter. She
looks so outlandish."
"But I like her; Susan."
"You do? well, I know somebody, that wont, I bet."
"You mean Richard? I know, he doesn't like her, for he told
me so, and called her a gipsy."
"TbMd he? well I think your mother wont like her any better.
Law's me, what a fuss she'll make, when she finds the brat here."
By this -time Dolores had been undressed and provided with
one of Lucy's nightgowns and as she lay upon the snowy pillow,
her ringlets contrasting strangely with the pallor of her face, on
which the traces of a recent grief were still impressed, she formed
a sight well calculated to soften any heart. The servant girl's
was softened, but she left the room with a shake of her head and
~a dubious glance in her homely face-what could it mean?

DOLORES.               .    I3

CHAPTER II.
SKIRMISHES.
The funeral was over. While Dolores slept the sleep of ex-
haustion, Mr. Fox had made all necessary preparations. A plain
coffin had been ordered and delivered at the break of dawn the
next morning, while Dolores was still sleeping. The body had
been laid into the coffin and everything prepared for the last pro-
cession without her knowledge. For a moment Mr. Fox had been
doubtful as to the propriety of waking Dolores, to let her join it;
but at last he had concluded, that it would be cruel, to deprive her
of this last change of seeing her dead father. Sad as the cere-
mony would be for her, she would at least fully realize her loss
and be more inclined to adapt herself to the situation. So she had
been wakened and dressed by Susan, who had revived the recol-
lection of last night's occurrences as gently as her somewhat rude
nature would permit. At first, on wakening, Dolores had threat-
ened to rebel; but no sooner had the knowledge of the past return-
ed to her mind, when she at once submitted to the girl's directions
and, as it were, relapsed into apathy, suffering Susan to dress and
conduct her to the funeralchamber much like an automaton., Only
on seeing her father in the 'coffin, she had rushed to his side with.
a wildness, that threatened a repetition of last night's scene. She
had grasped his icy hands, loudly called his name and hiding her
head upon his breast, moaned aloud. Yet no tear had entered her
eyes and after a few mites she had gained sufficient selfposses-
A sion, to follow the admonitions of Mr .Fox, who had kindly taken
her hand, assuring her, that he would be a father to her and in-
formed her, that they were now going to take her father's remains
to his last resting place. Sitting in a carriage at his side she had
attended the funeral and in the graveyard behaved with a com-
posure remarkable for her years. There is something repugnant
in death and in a corpse, especially to children and the form we
loved so much when animated, fills us with a secret awe, when life
has once departed. 'This is a wise arrangement of nature and
Dolores now benefitted by it; tho' it would have been hard to
tell, even for more penetrating eyes, than those of Mr. Fox, whether
the composure of the little girl was the result of selfcontrol or of


14                    DOLORES.
an abatement of the grief, with which she mourned her father's
death.
Now they were back in the villa and from Mr. Fox's abstracted
manner it was evident, that.he was pondering upon- the sudden
death of the musician and the new duties it had imposed upon
him. He called his daughter, bidding her to take the little
stranger into the garden and show her the place and when she had
obeyed him and taking Dolores by the hand, departed from
the room, he paced the floor in a manner not at all in keeping with
the ease and,nonchalance, so plainly depicted on his goodnatured
face. On the contrary, he seemed extremely nervous a'nd the
hands, which were folded on the back, twitched and worked in a
manner, almost dangerous to the safety of the fingers. At last
Mr. Fox stopped and opening the door, called in a loud voice:
"Susan!"
"Yes Sir," the menial responded and a moment afterwards made
her -appearance at the door, wiping her hands in her apron and
holding its corner, even after the operation had been finished.
"What may you be wishing, sir?"
"Well Susan" Fox addressed her, coming to a dead stop in his
walk and trying to look unconcerned. "I called you in, to speak
to you about this little girl. I suppose you know, that I promised
her father, to take care of her, do you?"
"Well yes, I think I did hear, sir."
"Now then, as a man of my word, I mean to stick to that prom-
ise; but the question is, what had we better do with her?"
"Indeed, Sir, you ought to know best."
"Well so I do Susan; still,-however-it will do no harm, to
give me your opinion about it."
"But Sir, indeed I hain't any; unless you let her sleep with me
and give her to the kitchengirl to help her sweepin and scrubbin
and runnin errands."
Mr. Fox looked amazed :
"Sweeping and scrubbing? he exclaimed, why Susan don't you
know she is a
"A what?" the servant inquired, when he stopped.
But Mr. Fox would not tell. He feared to be ridiculed, if he
hinted at the pretended high station of his ward. So he said:

.       I-DOLORES.                     1 5
"Nevermind; only I promised her father, not to let her serve, but
bring her up a lady and give her a good education."
Susan struggled between astonishment and indignation. The
low and ignorant will pardon their superiors for possessing rank
and wealth, but woe to their equal, who endeavors to better his con-
dition and rise above their level-they will never pardon him. Su-
san had in her way taken a likingfor the orphan; but the words
of her master effectually destroyed it and at that moment she
hated her. What! a little beggargirl to be taken, and flattered
and caressed and be doted upon? No indeed, Susan at least would
countenance no such proceedings and this-resolution became un-
mistakably plain in her miens and words, as she replied.
'An education? Who ever heard the like! I wonder how Mrs.
Fox will fancy that."
With these words Susan had evidently played a trump; for Mr.
Fox winced and showed some hesitancy, when he said:
"'Why shouldn't she fancy it? As a good christian she cannot
but laud my good intentions."
The girl said nothing, but plucked the corner of her apron; Mr.
Fox however at once recollected, that, if Mrs. Fox did object,
Susan surely was not the person, to whom he had to account for
his actions; so he said With a good deal of resolution :
"As I said before, the girl must be cared for. She needs Ygar-
ments of all descriptions and until they can be procured, some of
Lucy's dresses will answer. Don't you think, they'll fit, her"
"They may, for all I know,tho' it's-hard to say, how Mrs. Fox
will take it."
Mr. Fox did not reply to this; but ignoring it, resumed :
If I recollect right, the little room above the kitchen is unoc-
cupied."
"So it is Sir; but .
"And it is furnished for a sleepingroom?"
"There is a bed there and a washstand; but I guess".
"Then it will answer, to put little Dolores in. I charge you,
Susan, to see, that everything is done, to make her comfortable."
Susan was sorely vexed and she couldn't for her life quit the
room, without  showing it and making an attempt at rebelling
against her master's orders. Past experience must have shown


16                     DOLORES.
her the feasibility of such a conduct, or she would perhaps not
have risked the experiment.
hYou must excuse my gain saying Mr. Fox" she said, plucking
her apron with greater zest than before and coloring a little-
either from vexation or excitement "but it strikes me Sir, that
Mrs. Fox will never give in to such an arrangement. She is look-
ing for a second cook I heard her say and wants the room for her
to put i"
"She does ?" Mr. ox replied, well if that is the case,'we must
not interfere. We cainput Dolores as well in the cornerroom above
the parlor.
"But that is a spareroom for visitors, and I heard Mrs. Fox say,
as how she expected lots of friends soon."
"Did she say so? Well then there is the little chamber next to
mine; that is a cozy little room and not wanted, I am sure."
At thi's suggestion Susan became still more excited. Letting her
apron go and putting her hands on her hips in such a way,as to make
her elbows stand out in the shape of a pair of squares, she cried :
"Mr. Fox, you clout mean that, ? The best costliest, room in the
whole house for this little brat of a beggar? Mrs. Fox will be de-
lighted to see her silkspreads soiled by her dirty fingers."
Mr. Fox received this new objection with a patience, showing
that he possessed an unusual stock of that virtue. Having reflect-
ed a while, he resumed:
"You women are dreadfully particular, I know, and I count like
to cross your arrangements, if I canhelp it. If all these roone
dont answer, I know but one more and that is the closet next
to Lucy's room. I looked in yesterday and noticed it to be just
ready, to receive an inmate."
Susan shook her head:
"The Missus won't like a strange beggar child so near her darl-
in' I am sure" she said "Nobody knows- what sort of a person
she is and she might play all sorts of tricks on poor Lucy, before
we'd know."
This last argument was the best she had thus far advanced; but
yet it irritated Mr. Fox and perhaps for that very reason. We
are apt to get excited just in proportion to our antagonist's suc-
cess in warding off our thrusts. So Susan accomplished by good
sense, what she had failed to accomplish by nonsense, tho' surely

DOLORES                         17
against her will : namely the rousing of her master's ire, Tojulge
by her surprise and consternation the sight-must have been pirfect-
ly novel to her. With open mouth she stared at him, as he said:
. Nonl sense Susan!. I am gettingtired of your subterfuges and
want no more of them. I thought, you had a better heart, than
to try ousting a poor lonely child, that never harmed you. I
want to. be obeyed without further parlance; (1o you understand?
I don't care, what room you fix, butJI.want you to fix one and that
at once. Begone, I say and let me hear no more of this. If ifind
that the child's comfort is neglected, I'll make you rue it. Dont
stare at me and go."
The reader will perceive that Mr. Fox had nicely worked Jiim-
self into a rage. 'That is the way with many a timid man, though
we are far from imputing cowardice to Mr. Fox,--&amp; theywpn't
take heart, until they hear their on voice. cheeringthem up  r.
Fox was cheered by his; he' seemed '{to like himself 'in this .new
character much better than Susandid. She was dumbfounded
with surprise and without the utterance of even a syllable, left the
room to do his bidding. Mi. Fox however resumed his walk; he
might as well benefit by his excitefment, in making the foor
tremble :under his firm and, eergetic step, therein imitating the
engineer, who makes the paddles fly, while steam isup
."These womenfolks are intolerable with their "bu4s' and "(f's",
The deuce may take them all, not excepting-(here Mr. Fox low-
ered his voiceand cast a cautious glance around himJ-Mrs,
Fox. When a fellow wants to be comfortable, fhey come with
their brooms and scrubbing brushes; when hewants to be sociable
they pout and stick up their noses; when he desires to be left
alone, they make hikhead swim with their gibberish apd when he
wants to act like a ch stian, they come and prove, thathe is worse
than a heathen. I shouldn't wonder at all, ifSirs.Fox would do
thatvery thing. I wish, she was back and the whole thing over
for come it ~yill, that, is more than sure. She'll try' to make me
nd this poor little thing to the poorhouse aid}persuade me
the bar ,in.:thatnthing  il, "b mo                 mein
e  a1,tt nothing wile more calculated to advance her
wefre  utMs.Fxfujtry in vain is. m.I have given
my word and even sworn 'to take cae of the id and I shall doit
nt ac- of all opposition.. Still, they wil make me very un-
comfortable and the little one too, I fear. Wiel-e may si  ? T
2


'' t .
1
1
Y
1
G
f
1
t
i
.
f
i
i       ]
i

DOLORES
inust go and hunt her up, for somehow, the little one hay bewitch-
ed me with her deep sensible eyes and the quiet way, with which
she bears her loss."
Mr. Fox left the house and stepped into the park, but just as he
was turning the corner of the house, the person he sought, came
running towards him with every sign of- the greatest excitement.
Her eyes were flashing fire, her little hands were clentehed and the
lips firmly pressed together. Without heeding Mr. Fox, she'was
on the point of hastening by him, when that gentleman with a
voice expressing tenderness and surprise called her name.
"Dolores! Little one ! what is the matterI"
Now Mr. Fox had not at all, what we call a nusicaltvoice.lit
was rather common; if not rough; but it isn't always the quality
of the voice, that makes it find the way to the hearer's heart- it is
the feeling, which dictates the words. Now Mr. Fox was one of
the very few, who had ever spoken kindly to Dolores; moreover
he had spoken kindly at the very moment, when she needed kind-
n ess most and is it strange, that the image of her benefactor had
engraved itself into her heart; that the tone of his voice fell pleas-
antly on her ear? It failed not to affect her even in the state of
feverish excitement, whose prey she was and stopping short in
esponse to his call, she said with a flying voice-:
"I want to go away, Sir. - Yoh are kind to me; but the others
are not; your people sneer at me, whenever they look at me and
that boy has struck me and called me a gipsy. I am no gipsy
and I11 go away, where I need not hieawr it any more.
good to me, Sir, and Dolores thanks you very much.  f
After these words, that had been poured into the car of Mr.
Fox with a rapidity, calculated to bewildet anybody, Dolores had
stepped up to him and kissed his hand. Then turning, she
again commenced her hasty flight, when another exclamation of
his mouth stopped her a second time.
"Dolores'!"
This time, he spoke more tenderly yet and although surprise,
was still manifest, his voice bore the character of reproach. The
girl stopped at once, but she did not turn ; hanging her head and
working her hands in a restless manner, she awaited his further
ade went-upto her, and taking one of her hands into his cwn,

DOLORES.                        19
led her to a part of the park, where dense undergrowth limited
the view, but was also calculated to conceal the couple. No word
was said on either side, until they reached a seat, overhung .b -
flowering shrubs and climbing plants, a snug cozy place. Mr.
Fox sat down and drew the girl to his side ; but neither of them
noticed the beauty of the place.
"Now, little one" Mr. Fox began "repeat to me what you said
before ; but say it slowly; you perfectly drowned me before with
your hurried charges."
But by this time Dolores had cooled down a little and now felt
the repugnance innate to noble natures, to play informer. She
hesitated and stammered and it was only by dint of perseverance
and numerous questions, that Mr. Fox.elicited the truth from her.
It was this; while walking with Lucy in the park and garden she
had suffered the rough contact with persons either ill disposed or
void of sensibility, who, by their sneers and covert allusions or
their uncouth sympathy equally deeply wounded her feelings.
Still she had born it all and taken comfort from the even kind-
ness and gentleness of her companion. She at least had done
nothing to hurt her sensitive companion, though her calm and
perhaps shallow nature had on the other hand also prevented her
from making rapid advances to affection and intimacy. Then
followed the scene, which had so deeply stirred the ire in the girl's
bosom and whose very recital even now made her tremble with
agitation. Walking on one of the roads, that wound through the
,groves of the park, they had on a sharp bend suddenly come upon
a boy, whom Lucy had addressed as her brother, but who with
scornful laugh had declined all intercourse with a beggar brat.
'To this word Dolores relunctantly confessed, insinuating shyly,
that many others of a worse character had been used. However
she had not borne them all with tame indifferent, but stepping
boldly up to the young ruffian's face, had parried his thrusts
with so much skill, that in his vexatious disappointment he had
lowered himself to the mean act of striking a feeblesrkn  little girl.
This act it was, that had made her temper run off with. her and
would perhaps have driven her away from her protector's roof, if
he had not opportunely intercepted her flight. He now sat sil-
ently, no doubt deeply annoyed at the dishonorable course ofone,
he alld is son. Dolores saw it and wishing to' comfort him,

i


DOLORES.

20

i
t.
I
i
i'
i#
E
f
F
SFF
ji
S
f
t
f
tFg
]1!t
f
1
1
S
G

she told him with a cheering voice, that she did not mind it any
longer and begged him, not to think about it any more.
Fox was deeply touched by this display of generosity and the
liking he had from the beginning felt for this little girl, fast ripen-
ed into a warm affection. Drawing her closely to his side he said:.
"Little one, I see, I have not wasted my fostering care upon an
unworthy object. What I promised to your father from a feeling
of christian duty, I now pledge to you from true and sincere af-
fection. Will you in all respects, in the full sense of the word.
be my dear and loving daughter?"
The- child nestled closely to his side, her face assuming a happy
expression and lovingly she whispered:
"I will"
"Well then, our compact has been duly made and ratified ; but
Dolores, my power to protect you goes only a certain way. Of
course, that booby of a boy shall no longer abuse you, nor the
servants jeer you; but there is a-power to abuse, which being in-
direct and only in tone and expression lies beyond my control and
from which I cannot shelter you. Alas! poor child, many will be
the instances, where the world jars upon a highstrung character
and I would be false to my trust, to persuade you to the belief,.
-       that such trial will be spared you in my house. Forewarned is
forearmed and I want you from this present moment to form the
resolution of meeting all such low attacks with calm indifference.
Do you understand me Dolores?"
"I think I do, Sir."
"I knew you would. I knew from the first sight, that you were
a little lady in every sense of the word and that induced me to be--
friend you. Yes, my good girl, you will have many an unpleasant
hour in this my house, from which even I cannot save you; but
will you recollect at such periods, that I am and always shall be
your true and sincere friend and father?"
"I will Sir."
And will you recollect, that I can perhaps protect you best,
when I seem least disposed to do so? May be, I expect more of
your penetration, than your years would warrant?"
"No, Sir I know well, what you mean. Seeming to care but
little about me,,yqu will make the others let me alone."
Fox looked at the little creature with surprise.

DOLORES.                        21
"God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb and gives cunning to
the worm" he said earnestly. "Yes Dolores, I see you are prud-
ent above your years and having hinted so much, I may as well go
a step further. Mrs. Fox you know, my wife ... "
He hesitated and the little girl noticing his embarrassment,
hastened to reply:
"Say nothing more, Mr. Fox. That naughty boy. I mean your
son Richard, said something, that made me think, his mother
would not be kind to me. I do not know, why it is; but I feel,
that it will be so. Still I shall not mind it, Mr. Fox; or rather I
shall try hard, to make her love me too, just for your sake, Mr.
Fox and because you are so good to me."
Tears started to his eyes. His affection for this little creature
increased wonderfully and threatened to equal and outstrip the
love he bore-to his own children. Richard often annoyed him by
his numerous failings and Lucy, though a good child, was hardly
bright and lively enough, to awaken strong affections even in a
parent. In this child Fox had for the first time found his ideal
realized and therefore involuntarily opened to her the fountains
.of a heart, which he was perhaps often enough compelled to close
up. His feeling was moreover increased by the readiness, with
which Dolores adapted herself to circumstances and to say that he
felt grateful for the indulgence, which she had promised to Mrs.
Fox' caprices, would be stating the case but very feebly.  A
load was taken off his mind and he began to look with different
feelings towards the hour, that would bring back his wife. The
.marriage of Mr. Fox and his lady were not exactly, what we term
an unhappy one; but this was merely due to the husband's con-
sideration, his easy disposition and the happy humor, with which
he adapted himself to all her notions. If he had been as head-
strong, as he was kind and tolerant, you term would have found'
its application in its worst definition. As it was Mr. Fox yielded
the point in almost every instance and the reader will therefore
find Miss Susan's wonderment fully justified, when he for the first
time in her experience showed proofs of a will of his own. But
to return to the pair under the elderbush. Mr. Fox drew the girl
tenderly to his heart and holding her in a firm embrace, said :
"Dolores, my dear child, little did I dream, what treasure I should
Receive in you, when I promised to your father, what christian


k
. is
r
C
i
i
i
s
i
i;
hi
r
1
t
t
r
F
1
l
f
f
,4
1
_
4
r        t
r
r
I
}
i
t
i
I
t
'

charity compelled me to promise. I confess, I felt uneasy, when
I thought of your first meeting with Mrs. Fox; but your assurance,
fully eases my mind on that score. Perhaps our fears are un-
grounded and she may for once pull evenly with me. Nor will IT
advise you, how to behave to her; your own good sense will tell.
you better, than words of mine could do.  And now let us part;
it will be best from the beginning, if we avoid any show of great
familiarity; but never for a moment forget, my child, that I love
you dearly and always shall love you with unchanging fidelity.
If any one should dare to annoy you beyond endurance, come to
me at once, no matter from what party the annoyance comes. I
shall stand by you on such occasions; but if they let you alone.
and only now and then by word or look betray their littleness of
soul-well, then let it go, my child; remember, that by resenting
eveiy little annoyance, we would annoy ourselves more than our
evil wishers and destroy that even tenor of our lives, which consti-
tutes our happiness."
Mr. Fox arose, still leading by the hand the little girl he had
taken to the seat and yet a different creature. Graspi r g firmly
the hand of her protector, she walked lieside him with a step, that
hardly touched the ground. Fox noticed with satisfaction the;
buoyancy of her spirits.
"Dolores" lie began again "we had to talk so much that I for-
got to ask, how you stand with Lucy?"
«Oh! very well indeed ! She is so good and gentle ; I shall al-
ways like her very much."
"I am glad of it, for Lucy is really a good girl and will undoubt-
edly return your affection."
Dolores shook her head :
"I don't know Sir, how that will be. Supposing, her mother-
forbids her, to love me?"
Fox was again startled at her keen perception of the situation..
Still he smiled and said:
"Love can neither be commanded nor forbidden, child., There-
fore try to win the.love of Lucy and nobody can deprive you of it."-
"But she may be forbidden to show her love."
"That is true ; but we would nevertheless gain an ally to our,
party and have so much more prospect- of a final victory."
Dolores smiled. Near the house the two parted, and while the

girl sought her foster sister, Mr. Fox turned his steps towards the
stable, where lie was almost always sure to find his son. Richard
loved horses better than books and understood the merits of-a
racer better than those of a lecture. In town, during winter, Mr.
Fox enforced a strict attendance to school of both his children
and at first had even brought a governess to his country residence,
to keep up, if not improve, their knowledge ; but Richard's conduct
had always made her stay of short duration and as Mrs. Fo
took his part and pretended, that studying in the heat of summer
did not agree with her son, her husband had yielded for the sake
of peace and lately allowed the children the whole summer for plav
and recreation.
On reaching the stable, lie found his boy engaged in an .eager
conversation with John the coatchman. The subject seemed. to
please the speaker and the listener equally well, for Mr. Fox heard
frequent shouts of laughter and the name of "glipsy' repeatedly
struck his ear.
"Richard, step this way" lie said, "I want to speak to you."
The boy, a lad of some 14 or 15 years, was a little startled .oi
hearing his name so unexpectedly called; but turning around and
recognizing his father, lie quickly regained his composure and re
sliming his former position with his back towards Mr. Fox, lie
answered:
"I will after a while, I am just helping John a little."
Now the boy had no doubt many a time disobeyed his father
without apy manifest evil effects to himself; but if he expected to
get off as well on this occasion, he was much mistaken. Before
he was aware of it, his father's hand was on him, seizing him by
the collar of his jacket and wheeling him with a vigor, that made
him spin like a top, before he finally stopped, confronting the
angry brow of his father. He was out of breath, but apparently
more with surprise than with exercise. This energetic action of
Mr. Fox was probably as strange to him, as another manifestation
of it had been to Susan. Yes, so little could he realize it, that for
a monient he took it for a joke and assuming an air of injured
dignity, said with a brusque voice :
"What do you mean, Sir?"
"You are of very dull comprehension" Mr. Fox sternly replied

DOLORES.

22

DOLORES.

2id


DOLORES.

"and it is well for you, that I set down your impudence on account
of your stupidity."
The boy still stared at his father, but by this time he began to
realize, that the whirl had been applied' in good earnest. John
the coachman had also come to this conclusion and therefore re-
treated to a safer distance; but having reached, what he considered
a secure corner, he imitated his young master and with dilated
eyes and mouth gave way to1his unqualified astonshment in the
shape of a hopeless stare.
"Still, I desire to be understood hereafter, sir" Mr. Fox resumed
and therefore advise you to listen with due attention to what I
have to say. If ever I hear of a repetition of the dastardly act
against Dolores, of which you are guilty ; moreover, if in the least
way, by word, look or act you dare to molest her, I shall punish
you in a manner, that will make you rue the hour, when you took
it into your head, to disregard your father's order. Did you un-
derstand me, sir?"
Sullen silence on the part of Master Richard. Making another
step towards the boy, Mr. Fox repeated the question with a sharp-
er tone.
"I want to know, whether you understand me?,
This time a morose "yes!" came from the boy's lips.
"Very well, I am glad to know it and John, I want you to wit-
ness his reply. He understands me. Now sir.begone! and don't
appear before my eyes, until you have learned to know, that no
true gentleman ever strikes a woman. Begone sir!"
Stupified, but apparently cowed, the boy left the stable, and
John, considering his corner no longer safe, was on the point of
beating a retreat, when Mr. Fox' voice arrested him.
"John !"
"Yes Sir!" the response came quicker, and more respectfully
than it had ever issued from the coachman's mouth and that in-
dividual appeared before his master with an awkwardness, show-
ing plainly, that his conscience was far from easy and that he did
not know exactly, what was in store for him.
"You have seen Dolores, the little girl, whose father died in this
house yesterday ?"
"Yes Sir!"

DOLORES.

25

"You know, that she is henceforth to be regarded and treated
1ike a member of my family?"
"Well, sure Sir, I didn't know exactly."
."Mind it then, that such is the case. You have witnessed my
order to Richard, regarding his conduct towards the girl; well
what I forbid my children, I shall surely not allow my servants. I
want you and all the rest to treat Dolores with due respect or in
case of a contrary conduct be prepared to quit my service. Will
you have the goodness, to communicate these matters to your
comrades as well as the female servants of the house?"
"Yes, Sir" was the reply of the perplexed coachman-
"Thank you, John, that is all. I suppose you know that you
have to drive to the depot this evening for Mrs. Fox? I expect
her by the 6 o'clock train."
"So the children tells me" John replied with returning assurance,
feeling evidently like a, man, that has gone through a severe
thunder storm, without being struck by the lightning. "I was jist
gittin' ready, when yer Honor came in the stable."
"Very well, start in time, you know Mrs. Fox dont like to be
kept waiting."
With these words, Mr. Fox returned to the house. He went to
his room, but if he had gone into the basement instead, he could
have witnessed a considerable excitement, produced by John's
communications, which that worthy of course hastened to make
without delay. le overdrew his master's passion, if anything' and
delighted in frightening the servantgi rls by empathizing the strict-
ness of the order. In this he was successful; for though they pre-
tended to treat the whole matter very lightly, they were really
frightened by the unexpected fierceness of a man, whom they had
accustonied themselves to consider void of all elements calculated
to produce such emotions. They all valued their places in his
household ; for they were well treated and well paid, and therefore
resolved to comply with his demands, as far as outward show was
concerned. But though there were no communications on the
subject among them, there was not a servant in that house that
day, who did not secretly vow to him--or herself, that the beggar
girl should pay for this.

Fi

24


26

DOLORES.

CHAPTER III.
MAIN BATTLE.
Supper was over. Mr. Fox was sitting in his armchair on the
portico and tlhe two girls occupied a lounge in his neighborhood.
He had missed Richard at the meal, but abstained from asking-
questions, 'because he guessed the goy's whereabouts.  True,
John had driven alone from the mansion; but Richard had-so
thought his father-joined him on the*road, to be the first to see
his mother and pour into her ear a colored story of every tding,
thatshad transpired-in the house during her absence. His thoughts
kept him silent and imitating his example, the girls also said but
little and that little in a whisper: All at once the sound of wheels
became audible on the road and a moment afterwards an open
carriage drove up before the house. At the first sound Fox had
arisen and in that position he awaited the arrival of his wife. There-
she sat, richly attired, and at her side her son, thus verifying his
father's supposition. His wife, then, knew everything and that
perhaps was well; for it saved him the trouble of breaking the
news to her and allowed him to act on the defensive in the con-
flict, which. as he knew, was sure to come.
When the carriage stopped, Lucy and he -'ather stood waiting
at the door, to assist Mrs. Fox in alightin ,while Dolores had re-
mained at the top of the stairs, secretly trembling at the thought
of meeting the woman, whom she had good reason to consider the
arbiter of her fate, the person, in whose power it lay, to make her
happy or miserable.
On reaching the groum d Mrs. Fox stooped to kiss her daughter,
taking good care, not to derange her splendid toilet; then raising
herself again she answered her husband's "good evening" and
"welcome home" with a gracious nod and laying her glove hand
into his extended right, vouchsafed to him a condescending smile.
Mrs. Fox was a handsome woman, some might have .called her
beautiful; but it was the beauty of the marble and like it cold.
Even her smile would not light it up nor take from those large
gray eyes the sharp stinging look, that made Dolores shrink when:
they rapidly glanced over the house and for a moment dwelled on
her figure. With stately bearing the Lady swept up the flight of

DOLORES.                        27
stairs leading to the portico, refusing her husband's ,assistance
and stepping on the platform with a mien, that seemed to say:.
"this is my realm and I am queen of it !" Passing Dolores and
pretending now to get the first sight of her, she stopped a mo-
ment and said coldly :
"Ah! whom have we here? I suppose that is the little girl, my
son told me about. Edward have you already instructed Susan
to assign her such duties in the servant's department, as willsuit
her capacity ?"
Mr. Fox hesitated a moment, before he answered. He had hard-
ly expected that she would begin the battle so soon, or that she
'would open it with a battery of such heavy, caliber.. Generally
her tactics consisted in light skirmishes and ambuscades, from
which she would fall upon angngarded point of his position, and
capture him, before he was aware of it. This time she evidently
preferred an open fight, perhaps provoked by the, magnitude ofhis
offense. True, her face showed not the slightest evidence of vex-
ation; but then Mr. Fox knew very well, that these placid features
were not always a certain index to the feelings underneath; that;
while the imouth could smile, a sea of rage could heave and surge
and seathe below the glassy surface. It might be so this time
and Mr. Fox was inclined to consider this rather fortunate; for an
excited fOe rarely resorts to feints and wiles and false attacks. At
any rate, he was resolved to meet the issue fairly and squarely and
knowing the .danger of yielding the slightest point,,replied.
"I have not, Caroline; nor is it my intention to do it at all."
"Well, there you are right," she answered with a smile "this is
properly my province and I shall attend to it. Here my little.girl;
I11 give you a chance of showing your docility; take these things
of mine and put them on the rack.'
Dolores with a willing hand stepped forward, to do the lady's
bidding, but the voice of Mr. Fox at;once arrested her.
"Stop a moment Dolores" he said with his face slightly coloring
up you are hardly strong and skilled enough for this and might
drop the shawl. There is Susan coming, who can do the job a
great deal better- Susan take your Mistress' things and put them
away."
"You haven't had your supper yet, Caroline, have you?"
So sir," his wife replied, biting her lip, but in no other way-


showing herself vexed at the manoeuver, with which he had par.
ried her thrust "I haven't had anything worth speaking of, since
we left the city this morning."
"Well you had better have a bite then, before you change your
dress. I ordered Susan to have supper ready for you." -
"Thank you Sir" Mrs. Fox replied and in his company and that
of her children, descended into the diningroom. There she seated
herself at the table in company of her son, who for the sake of
meeting her, or may be for other reasons, had foregone his supper.
"Poor boy!" his mother said caressingly "missed his supper for
mother's sake. Well it will now taste doubly good in my coin-
pany."
Susan had brought tea and was going to serve at the table, when
Mrs. Fox interrupted her.
"Susan" she said "you must be very busy and I hate to impose
on you. Supposing you go on with your work and send me the
little girl from the porch This surely is an easy task and she may
as well relieve you of this extra labor. I am not hard to please,
and if she is not perfect all at once, she certainly will do better
after a while."
Susan spoke her "yes nia'm" with a slight embarrassment, cast-
ing a furtive glance at her master,' before she turned to go. Be-
fore she reached the door his voice stopped her :
"Susan" he said with a laugh "I am afraid Dolores would make
a batch of it. You better leave her where she is and, if you are
really busy elsewhere, Lucy and I will do the waiting. My little
girl will certainly delight in serving upon her mother."
This was said so definitely, though in a pleasant manner, that
Susan dared not disregard it; but with her stereotyped "Yes,
Sir" left the room, without any other comfort than the exchange
of a significant look with her mistress.
That Lady was evidently the prey of unpleasant sensations.
Twice in the period of half an hour she had been foiled and con-
tradicted by a husband, on whose record such things were entirely
unknown. . True, Richard had faithfully chronicled the astound-
ing display of energy, which Mr. Fox had lately been guilty of;
but that was to children and servants. She doubted not, that the
very sight of her!would suffice, to crush in the bud the, struggle
for independance, her husband seemed inclined to make. His

downright contradiction therefore on two occasions and the ready
obedience he found with the servants, at once irritated and al-
armed her. Yet his opposition to her wishes had been so consid-
erate, so entirely in the limits of politeness and good breeding,
that she was deprived of any chance whatever of putting in the
powerful levers with which she had. always carried her point. She
was still uncertain as to the best course to pursue,.when Mr. Fox
changed his tactics and benefiting by the advantage he had gained,
assumed the offensive.
"Caroline" he said as quietly and politely as lie could "the ser-
vants being absent, Imay as well seize the opportunity of rectify-
ing an error, under which you seem to labor in regard to thi3 lit-
tle girl. , I thought Richard had already explained her case"-
Mr. Fox looked sharply tt the boy, who dropped his eyes and
blushed under. his gaze-"but it seems I have been mistaken
and have therefore to enlighten you respecting her case. Her
father, who died yesterday under this roof, exacted a promise from
me, to take care of the child and to educate her in a manner be-
coming her position."
Here Mr. Fox hesita   a little. He probably felt, that from 
prudent, worldly point of view, he had given a rather hasty pledge
and that by the adherence to it, he would expose himself to the
ridicule of the scoffers. Mrs. Fox saw her advantage and feign-
ing an unbounded surprise, exclaimed:
"But Mr. Fox, I am at a loosto comprehend this. Can it barely
be possible, that you, the experienced business man, should have
suffered yourself, to be imposed upon ? Position indeed! pray
what rank does this protege of yours hold?"
Mr. Fox slightly colored. This was another weak point of his
case and lie felt the keen reluctance of the republican, to appear
captivated by the lustre of rank and station. For that reason he
merely replied :
"Her father left me papers, proving that she belongs to one of
the first noble, families of Italy"
Ms. Fox laughed, but if she could have heard, how ugly that
laughter sounded, she would have been less prone to indulge in
her merriment.
,'Noble families indeed !" she sneered "pray, if her father was
of such high rank, why did he beg his bread in the streets ?"

l
, -  _                 ,
,'

DOLORES.

DOLORES.

29

28g


30                    DOLORES.
In niakingthis inquiry, Mrs. Fox betrayed a knowledge, which
she had formerly denied. But this slight inconsistancy escaped
observation in the ardor of the fight and without alluding to it Mr.
Fox replied :
Becausedhe joined a-conspiracy against the house of Austria
and on discovery had to flee for his life."
Another outburst of merriment, holding the middle between a
laugh and a sneer.
"The old story of the political refugee ! I must confess, I have
never yet seen an Italian, who was not at least a duke and had
not taken part in some dreadful conspiracy."
Mr. Fox remained silent. He felt; that he lost ground and his'
wife seing her advantage, was not slow, to follow it up.
"Indeed Mr. Fox, I am not only perfectly thunderstruck at the
credulity, with which you have fallen a prey to the machinations
of these people. I should have expected more of one of your
experience.''
Mr. Fox got somewhat nettled at these taunts.
"You show little charity, Mrs. Fox, in excluding from your
explanations even the possibility of the poor fellow's honesty.
A hemorrhage is generally no trick in'the. role of imposters and
people are apt to speak the truth, when they seal their statements
with their death."
There was no gainsaying this and Mrs. Fox knew it and there-
foie changed her front.
"Even admitting, that the man was honest," she argued, being
careful to preserve a show of fairness in word and expression,
A"was it not inconsiderate in you-to make the promise?"
"Not to my knowledge, madam."
"Well then, let me explain. It was not tiy considerate;to im-
pose a new burden on me, without consulting my wishes."
"I gvas not aware, that you were a heavily burdened woman. If
vou want more help, a word will suffice to procure it.
"It isn't help I want, sir. Help cannot do everything. If I
were to act the mother to this girl, a hundred duties would arise,
which I could not shift upon other shoulders. But that is not ail.
You were even more inconsiderate to the girl than to your wife, in.
making that promise.'
"You love to speak in riddles, madam."

DOLORES.                        31
"Indeed I do not; nothing can be plainer. You agreed to raise
this little girl a lady and when you have done so, what is to become
of her? Do you intend to shorten your own children's inheritance,
by bestowing upon the stranger's girl a fortune, that will enable
her, to live in conformity with her education ? Or will you cast
her oil; after having given her a taste for enjoyments, which will
never be hers ? That is not only inconsideratenessiso
right cruelty."
Mr. Fox felt the force of these objections; but he also felt, that
they covered the extreme limits of the case. Moreover he felt,
that his wife reasoned very cleverly at the expence of her feelings.
and that in doing a good deed it will never do to contemplate
distant unfavorable possibilities and thus suffer ourselves to be
prevented from executing it. Lastly however all this fine reason-
ings were totally useless and unseasonable, because not only by
his word, but even by his oath he was pledged to the fulfillment
of his promise. 'Ihis he intemated to his wife in plain words,
begging her to receive the case as a fixed fact and to accomodat
herself to circumstances, which it was out of his power to alter.
But if he had expectated a ready compliance to this request, he
tas evidently.nuch mistaken. Mrs. Fox not only refused to yield
point, but seeing, that calm reasoning would fail to answer,
she at once entered the field with declamations and protesttions,
with tears and lamentationsin short with all the powerful weep-
ons at the disposal of the female sex.
"So you really mean to say, Edward, that you will adhere to
this foolish project ?"
"Why Caroline you are too good a christian to desire, that I
should perjure myself."
"That, Sir, you have to settle with your conscience. It wasn't
I who advised such silly pledges, and you can surely not expt
that I should consider myself bound by your vows ?"
"I do expect, that you will respect them and do
terferewith their fulfilment." .
"But what am I to do with this beggar child? You do not ex-
Pect, that I nd y children shall associate with her on terms of
equality  ?"whe                              her mli f
"Imrl4oe6htTo            ild   ohn, omk        e i~i


32                     DOLORES.
my house a burden. As to the rest, I shall take everything upon
myself."
"And this creature, this beggar girl is to be about me, a foreign
element, to interfere with my designs, destroy my comfort and
spy my actions? No, Sir, I shall never- consent to such an ar-
rangement, and I warn you from the first that I'shall do all in
my power, to rid myself of this girl, whom I cannot see in any
other light, then that of an intruder and annoyance."
With these words Mrs. Fox arose anid sweeping with the dig-
nity of an offended queen across the room; had reached the door,
when her husband bade her stop a moment.
"Caroline" he said, I hope you will think better of this after
calm reflexion ; but if you should not; if you should insist upon
crossing my wishes in this respect, I hope you will at least limit
your opposition to passive resistance. Any direct interference
with my orders, any 'ttempt'to incite my' children or servants to
a rebellion against my dispositions, will compel me to use my
rights and powers as the master of this houst. You know I hate
disputes and you can easily avoid them. Let me hope then, that
this disagreable subject will never be revived, betwee ius."
hirs. Fox  disdained to reply; she hardly awaited the end of his
remarks, but leaving the room an-slamming the door with un-
ladylike vehemence, went upstairs and retiring to her room, be-
came invisible for the balance of the night. Her children how-
ever were summoned to her presence, to receive instructions; but
while LucY was merely strictly forbidden to have anything to do.
with the "beggar girl," her son was taken into her more intimate
confidence. He remained closeted with her for quite a length of
time and when he reappeared it was with a malignant joy on his
face and 'a triumphant scowl, which he hardly thought necessary
to conceal.
Mr. Fox was the last, to leave the diningroom. He ascended
the stairs with a heavy heart and when he stepped on the portico,
where Dolores had been waiting in painful suspense, a deep sigh'
betrayed her at once that the interview had not furthered her in-
terests. Mr. Fox laid his handon her head, but he said nothing
and with a vacant eye stared in the air. Only when Dolores
caught his other hand and caressingly laid it against her cheek,
he looked down upon her with a mournful smile, saying merely.:

DOLORES.                        33
"Poor child!"
Mrs. Fox don't like me "Dolores asked shvly."
He shook his head.
"She hates me very much."
"Oh I do not think she does; at least she did not say so."
"But she does not want me in the house ?"
"It is hard to say, child, what she wants, he answered with a
shade of vexation, in his tone ; hardly remembering to whom he
spoke.
After a while Dolores resumed -
"It will make you miserable, Mr. Fox, to have her be angry
with you?"
Mr. Fox started and looked troubled.
"I hardly know, child, for I am used to it. Trit I try to avoid
such things, but if they can't be helped they have to be borne."
"But they might be helped" Dolores suggested.
He looked up in surprise.
"How child?" he asked abruptly.
"If you sent me away" she said, dropping her head and speak-
ing so softly, that he could hardly hear her.
He was deeply moved at such self denial. Drawing her into his
embrace and kissing her forehead, he said quickly and with deci-
sion:
"Do not mention it again, for it is out of question. You are
worth a dozen of her and at such a prize I will not purchase
peace."
Releasing her and taking a chair he mused a while and then re-
sumed:
"But I am selfish Dolores; I forgot that you must suffer more
in such a fend than I."
She shook her head:
"I shall be sorry to displease her" she said,, but then I know,
that you love me and that will make me not mind it."
"Are you sure of that Dolores?"
'Very sure."
"Well then, let us weather it, as well as we can. If she refuses
to be a mother to you, I'll have to be both father and mother
that's all. Come child; it is late and I must see whether Suan
has done my bidding and prepared you a room to sleep in."


34                     DOLORES.
Taking her hand, he led her into the basement, where Susan
was still busy washing dishes and making preparations for to mor-
row's breakfast.
"Is the room ready I ordered Susan ?"
"Yes Sir."
"Show us to it, then."
Susan led them up a pair of back stairs and opened the door of
the room above the kitchen, about which she had made so much
fuss a few hours ago.
"That will do, Susan, you may go."
"Shan't I assist the miss, to undress ?"
Before Mr. Fox could reply, Dolores said in a pleasant way :
"Thank you Susan, I can do very well alone. I thank you for
fixing this room so nicely for me."
If Susan appreciated her thanks, she did not show it; but leav-
ing the room returned to her sphere of business.
"And you really want no help Dolores ?"
"Indeed, Mr. Fox, I do not, since my mother's death I had no-
body to assist me and then you know, if I had had help, why it
wouldn't have done me any good, because I had no clothes to
change."
This was said half sadly osnd half jokingly; but Mr. Fox was
more affected by the sadness, than the joke; so he said:
"Poor little one ! Clothes shall never fail you again if I can
help it, nor help either, if you need it. Still if you can get along
alone, it will be so much the better and spare Susan's dignity.
There is a great deal in management and I am sure, my little
Dolores will know how to manage."
"I hope I shall, sir ; at least I shall try very hard, to make them
love me."
"They must be monsters, if you do not succeed at last. But
now good night Dolores; I shall wait outside, until you are in
bed."
He took her hand and when she held up her little face to him,
pressed a tender kiss upon her lips. Poor thing! perhaps it had
been her habit to offer that tribute of affection to her father and
now in the yearning for love, so general in children, she bestowed
it upon the man, who had given her parent a decent burial and
shown her more kindness, than she could recollect to have receiv-

DOLORES.                       35
'ed on her whole dreary journey through life. Then Mr. Fox left
the room, and patiently stood sentinel at the door, until Dolores
'voice informed him, that she had safely reached the haven, in
which she was to anchor for the night, a bed more comfortable
-and tidy, than she had seen in all her past experience.
CHAPTER IV.
CONQUEST.
The next morning, at break of day, when Susan was kindling a
fire in the range, a light hand was laid upon her shoulder and a
childish voice inquired:
"Susan may I help you?"
The girl started and looking up saw Dolores, who being washed
and combed and attired in a plain calico dress and a white apron,
offered as pretty a picture as one would want to see. Her head
was bent a little, to catch Susan's eye, while from her own eman-
ated a flood of genuine kindness, truly captivating. For a mo-
ment Susan was captivated; but recollecting, that such a speedy
and unconditional surrender would be disgraceful and altogether
humiliating she checked the kind reply already upon her lips and
.said rather sharply :
"Is that you? What do you want here in the kitchen ?"
"I want to help you Susan. Do let me."
"Nonsense ! It won't ho for so fine a lady, to soil her fingers.
Didn't Mr. Fox tell me plain enough, he didn't want you to work?"
"Mr. Fox meant kindly- I think he promised my dear father,
(her eye swam in tears at the mention) to be kind to me and to
teach me to read and write and learn all sorts of things. But I
think, he didn't mean, I shouldn't work at all; only I shouldn't
work all the time, but learn a bit every day."
"I don't know what he meant ; but I know what he said."
"O Susan do let me help you; I love to work, so very much and
you will see, I am not quite so stupid as you think me. I can
make the coffee and toast bread and spread the table and wash the
dishes and do a great many things beside, if you would only let
me."


36

DOLORES.

Susan-was considerably worried. She was naturally a well dis--
posed person, though somewhat rough and the genuine loveliness
of the little stranger stole irresistably into her heart. Yet she re--
sisted stoutly and the recollection of this little beggar having
been exalted high above her, as yet sustained her. Still her voice
had not longer its former roughness, when she said:
"Listen to the child ! I wonder, where you learned all the
things you mentioned; may be on the street?"
Dolores colored and was evidently hurt by the blunt allusion to
her former wretched condition; but she had a purpose, the pur-
pose, of conquering these ungenial spirits and with a control
above her years she suppressed her feelings and replied:
"Oh Susan, we were not always on the street. Some years ago
when my father's health was better and my mother living, we fared:-
better and had a little home and then it was I helped my dear ma
for she was feeble and after a while got sick and grew worse and
worse, until at last, she died and we had to put her in a coffin, like
that of poor father. After that he also got sick and too feeble to
work and so he bought the organ with the last money he had
and-and-"
Dolores' voice was completely drowned in the tears, that now
streamed down her cheeks in a torrent, though evidently against
her wish. She struggled hard to suppress them and after a while
succeeded. The cloud passed from her face and she smiled with
double sweetness through the moisture that still filled her eyes.
Susan was more moved than ever. These tears annoyed her
very much and tho' unwilling to comfort the girl, she thought she,
could at least do no less, than grant the request, which original
denial had provoked them.
"Well, well".she said abruptly "don't cry: what is the use of
it? If you are bound to dirty your hands and clothes, you may
work, for what I care. But if the master scolds, I hope you will-
recollect, that it wasn't any of my doings and that you forced me
into it."
Dolores' eyes brightened visibly. Clasping her hands she said:
"Oh you are so good Susan, and [ shall love you for it. I know
you dont like, me, Susan and have made up your mind, not to
either. But Susan I shall be so good so very good to you, that
I'll make you nevertheless."

DOLORES.                        37
A- queer sensation crept over Susan's heart. What could it
mean ? Was this little girl to make a fool of her, as she had of
Mr. Fox? It would never do, no never; therefore she put an end
to this dangerous conversation, by saying:
"Law me, child, what do you talk about. What has put such
strange notions into your head? Come, come I han't no time to
dispute with you any longer. Here is the coffee and there is the
mill; you may grind away and I'll soon see, what stuff you are
made of."
The coffee was ground and the table setfor the servants, who
.had their meal much earlier than the family. When every thing
was ready, John and Jim came in and Jane the cook and they i-
valled i staringat the little girl and wondering, what her presence
meant. But they were soon to learn; for after they had seated
.themselves, Dolores bade Susan sit down and on refusal forced
her on a chair in a pleasant, flattering way, that was irresistible.
That much accomplished, the child fetched the big coffee pot,
so big, that she had to take both her hands to hold it, and then
poured the brown aromatic beverage into their cups and fetched
them milk and sugar and bread, and her rapid eager eye discover-
ed every want, before it had made itself even felt. At first they
,did not know, what to say and sat in rather an awkward silence;
but Dolores understood how to jnake them speak. She asked
them questions and made remarks bearing upon their different
-occupations, showing a familiarity therewith, that made them
wonder. But she succeeded at the same time in dispelling their
embarrassment and before they knew it, the men and women were
in a lively conversation with her and with each other and jokes
and railleries were taken and given and before the meal was over,
ohn declared she was a little beauty and Jim pretented that her
smile made the coffee sweeter than any sugar. Even the women
had lost their prejudices and made up their mind, to accept the
little stranger and her position in the house in good grace. Their
.faces told Dolores, tho' their lips did not and in consequence her
eyes got brighter and her smile sweeter and she felt as if she could
dance and embrace the whole company one and all.
At this junction of the affair Susan gave a start and grew slight-
pale, for she had looked through the half open door and seen
itui master s face'. But he didn't at all look anry in the con-


38                     DOLORES.
trary, a gay smile rested on his features and he warned Susan, by
raising his finger not to betray his presence and then vanished
before the others had noticed him. When the meal was over,
Dolores would not rest, until Susan had supplied her with a large
coarse apron, to save her clothes and then allowed her, to dry the
dishes, as they came out of the pan. Only when everything was
finished and all the traces of the meal had been removed, she
would consent to go up stairs. Stepping on the portico, she saw
Mr. Fox and running up to him, bade him a good morning. He
replied in warm tones and then by questions that seemed unpre-
metiated, elicited from the child a recital of her recent achieve-
ment. She was evidently proud of it and he was careful not to
check her ardor. With some children a dangerous familiarity
with coarse characters might have resulted from such a begin-
ing; but somehow Mr. Fox had no fear of this in the case of Dol-
ores. She had thus far acted. with so much propriety, that her-
protector could not find the heart, to blame or even advise her.
He abandoned her to that instinct of propriety, which seemed to
innate to her and this was well. Moreover he rejoiced at the good
impression which she had made upon the servants ; for he well
knew, how much even the subordinate members of a household
can contribute to a person's happiness or misery. If the servant's
loved his little foster-daughter, Mrs. Fox would in a great mea-
sure be deprived of the means of annoying her. Lucy's gentle-
ness disqualified her naturally for any agency in such an attempt
and the hostile forces were therefore reduced to his wife and
Richard; for Mr. Fox knew his boy well enough, to feel sure that
he would not only second his mother in any measure against Dol-
ores, but even delight in anything, that required craft and cun-
ning for its execution.
Shortly afterwards, Richard and Lucy joined the pair on the
portico. They both offered their "good morning ;" but.after that,
the boy abstained from taking the slightest notice of Dolores.
Lucy behaved with her usual gentleness; but she labored under a.
constraint, that was evidently inspired. Mr. Fox said nothing.
He knew well, that interference would make matters only worse,,
and therefore allowed both his children, to conduct themselves
towards Dolores as they pleased, provided they abstained from
any direct attempts to insult her or hurt her feelings.

DOLORES.                        39
The bell rang and called the party into the dining room, where
a tempting breakfast was set for them. Mrs- Fox sent word that
she would not be present, pleading fatigue from yesterday's jour-
ney as an excuse. Nobody, but Richard seemed to regret this.
annoi ncement, and he perhaps only because he felt the want of a
congenial spirit. On the contrary, the tone of the conversation
was gay and lively and even Susan seemed infected by the general
hilarity. Mr. Fox saw with pleasure, that she waited upon no-
body with more satisfaction, than upon Dolores and always help-
ed her to the best of everything, without seeming, to have the in-
tention of doing so.
When breakfast was over, Mr. Fox announced his intention to
take a walk to the factory and invited the children to accompany
him. Richard alleged that his mother would want him and beg-
ged to be excused; bit Lucy after some hesitation consented to
join them. Leaving the park, the trio took the highway on the
right, passing through common but nevertheless pretty scenery'
On the right the park stretched nearly all the way to the works,
and on the left it was lined with little cottages, as before said,
with only here and there an opening of an acre or two'"between
them. As they approached the last house, which had quite a
number of handsome shade trees around it and in its architecture
and surroundings showed more than ordinary taste, they saw a
woman sitting at the window, on observing the party, greeted
them friendly and came to the door, insisted upon a short stop at
her house. She was so urgent in her invitation that Mr. Fox could
not well decline ; he therefore directed his companions to stop a
little while and opening the gate of the fence advanced towards
the house, to salute the hostess.
"How do you do Mrs. Fuchs?" he said shaking hands with the
dame. who was about 40 years of age, but had withstood the tooth
of time very well, showing an embonpoint indicative of a surplus
of health "how do you do, Madam and how do your worthy hus.
band and the boys fare ?"
"The boys are very well, Sir, thank you" the hostess replied
with a strong german accent reversing Mr. Fox' questions in her
reply. Mr. Fuchs works as usual in the factory, and as to myself
why I cannot complain, only sometimes I think, I get a little old
ind frail."


40                     DOLORES.
"Frail Madam?" Mr. Fox replied: "Why you aihe as stout as
ever and will undoubtedly remain so for 50 years to come."
Mrs. Fuchs laughed and begged her company to be seated,
which they refused to do, alleging a lack of time, to indulge in
anything besides the meditated call at the factory.
"Oh! you must stay long enough, to taste a glass of Rhine wine,
my brother-in-law sent os from the old country" the hostess re-
plied with an earnestness, that would brook no contradiction
"just sit down on the porch; I'll be back in less than no time."
Suiting the actions to the words, she disappeared, but shortly
afterwards returned with some glasses and a bottle of wine, which
all her guests had to partake of, before she would be satisfied.
Mr. Fox praised the wine, as it well deserved; for it was of the best,
the famous Rhine produces and had been sent by a relative living
at the source. Then he once more asserted the necessity of con-
tinuing their walk;. but the hostess was.evidently bound to pro-
long the visit.
"Why, Mr. Fox" she said "you are always in a great hurry. I
havn't had time yet to look at these little ladies. This' here is
Miss Lucy, I know, and growing fast too; -but whom have we
here? Is this the little guest staying at the mansion?"
"Yes Mrs. Fuchs and I seize, this opportunity, to recommend
her to your favor."
"She is welcome, indeed she is" the hostess said with a genuine
kindness, that could not well be mistaken, at the same time seiz-
ing the girl's hand and giving it a firm pressure. "I hope she
will often ,call to see me and stay longer than Mr. Fox is willing
to do. But there are my boys. Charles ! Henry ! come and pay
your respects to Mr. Fox."
Two boys about 16 and 14 years of age presented themselves
before the party, to do their' mother's bidding. - They were both
handsome, clever looking boys, especially the older, who had a
certain something about his person, which we sometimes but rare-
ly find in strangers, and which attracts us powerfully from the
first. He was tall for his age possessing a body, evidently strong
and wellknit, yet by no means void of that grace which is seldom
matched with robustness and strength. When he took of his
straw hat, he showed a high and commanding forehead; but though
a pleasant smile seemed to .play habitually around his lips, a

DOLORES.                 41

thoughtful earnestness was stamped on his upper face. His hair
and eyes were of an auburn color and the latter of a brightness,
which in moments of excitement must certainly assume a start-
ling brilliancy. -Altogether the youth was of an. extraordinary
character and this Dolores, seemed to feel, for her eye dwelled
long and earnestly upon him and when she shook hands with him
she blushed and dropped her eye before his keen and searching
glance.
Henry, the younger boy, was no less attractive in his way. He
had not the striking appearance of his brother, but in the eye of
some was more handsome. His beauty was not of an intellectual
character however and in the eye Dolores his glossy hair, smooth
skin and fair color were no compensation for his brother's ap-
pearance of superior intellect. Not that Henry had looked any,
way's dull; but his lively eyes lacked steadiness, wandering here
and there with restless vivacity and creating involuntarely the
impression in the observing mind, that his purpose was as un.
steady as his glance.
Charles was evidently one of Mr. Fox' fovorites ; for he shook
hands with him with great cordiality and inquired about his
loings. Before the boy could answer, his mother replied in his
stead.
"Mr. Fox, excuse me for interrupting you; but I'll he honest
and confess, that I had my little side reason for calling you in
to-day and for trespassing on your precious time. It is my boys
I wanted to speak to you about and if these young ladies will go
a moment with then and allow them to show them the garden
and their pets and treasures generally, I shall unburden my heart
Sir, and not keep you much longer either."
Mr. Fox had much respect for the whole family, that was evi-
dent from the readiness, with which we complied with her wishes.
"Well, little ones be off then for a spell; but be careful not to
go beyond ealling distance nor to impose upon the g llantry of
your, guides."
The young people obeyed and Charles from- the start assumed
the guide; not, that he had pressed his services in that capacity
upon the girls-no, it seemed rather a matter understood, of
Course, than anything else, he falling into it as naturally, as the
others including' Henry into that of followers.


42                     DOLORES.
"Well, young ladies" he'began with a smile and tone, that was
condescending, without intending to be so "what do you like to
see? Your fathers visit will be of short duration, as he says and
I cannot show you half my treasures,-as mother is kind enough
to style them-before he'll call you away. What would you see
then? Shall I take you into the animal, mineral or vegetable
kingdom? Will you have beasts, plants or stones? Speak Lucy."
Lucy smiled and rather shyly answered:
"It makes no difference to me Charles; suit your own pleasure."
"But I would rather suit your pleasure. What does this young
lady say? How did your father'call her?"
"Dolores is my name."
"Dolores? that means pain" the boy said gravely; it is a pretty
but a sad name. Well Miss Dolores, what do you say?"
"I say what Lucy said. I don't know your treasures, and one
is therefore as welcome as another."
Charles looked sharply at the little thing, that spoke so defin-
itely.,
"You are right" he said "and I shall yield the point. I'll show
you things then, which I like best myself; if they don't suit your
taste, you must blame yourselves."
He led them to the rear part of the gardan,;where an enclosure
contained several pet onimals of his. There was an eagle and
lesser birds, a raccoon, a fox, a deer and other quadrupeds be-
longed to the collection, which was a very choice one. The girls
where delighted; for the animals were indeed fine specimens and
very different from the lifeless crippled creatures, we generally
see in museums or menageries. They were not very tame either,
especially those, who from their nature were beasts of prey.
Charles would therefore not allow Henry or the girls, to enter
their enclosures; for they had on former occasions not only fright-
ened but even attacked strangers. He himself however went in
to every cage without hesitation and Dolores was at once delight-
ed and frightened at the fearlessness with which he handled them.
and the great attachment to their master and entire subjection
to his will, these animals showed. She looked at him with con-
siderable respect and listened to his explanations with profound
attention. Much of what he said was new to her, but Dolores
was not altogether so ignorant as her previous life would war-

DOLORES                         43.
rant. Her parents had been educated people, and striven to the
best of their ability, to impart their knowledge to their daughter..
From them she had inherited a language above her recent station
and many other things, which long neglect had made very dim,,
but not obliterated altogether. As Charles spoke they rose to.
view made his remarks doubly valuable and instructive.
From the menagerie Charles took his visitors to other equally
interesting departments of his little dominion, and wherever they
went, he addressed his remarks unconsciously to Dolores. Per-
haps her decisive language had impressed him, or he noticed in,
her replies marks of a superior intellect, that enlisted his symn-
pathy. Seeing that treats of an intellectual character pleas-
ed her best, he made his selection accordingly, much to the dis-
appointment of Lucy, who clamored for the white mice and pet.
lambs and the large swing, in which Charles had often made her
scream with fear and delight. But to-day, he seemed deaf to all
her hints and allusions and seeing him so little inclined to humor
her wishes, she gave Henry a hint and before Charles and Dolores
knew it, they had strayed off to amusements more congenial to,
their dispositions..
And Charles and.his little mate, what did they in the mean time
admire? The lad took her into his sanctum, which was study,,
library, workshop and laboratory all in one. First he showed
her the model of a frigate, a beautiful piece of workmanship, all
his own making. He knew and told her the names of all the
masts and sails and riggings and enlarged on the duties and
beauties and hardships and perils of the seaman, until her fancy
was completely captivated and she could scarcely tear herself
away from the model. Next they went to a little engine,'which
he had built, tho' the main parts had been cast for him at the
factory. He had given the dimensions and calculated the power
and at last had had the satisfaction of seeing the machine work
perfectly. Now of course there was no steam up; but Charles of-
ten fired his engine and then used its power in turning, boring or
performingother mechanical labors he required.
From the engine they came to cases with books ofvarious kinds,.
whose very titles sounded too-learned for ignoratt little Dolores..
She told him so with her wonted honesty and he said it was a
pity and asked her, whether she had no desire to learn. Then it,


44                     DOLORES.
was her turn to become animated and with a shining to tell him
how anxious she was and that Mr, Fox had promised, to give her
a chance, Her eagerness pleased the young student and their
mutual exchanges and discoveries of similar likes and disliks
made them fast friends and feel as if they had known each other
ever so long. When Mr. Fox' voice finally summoned Dolores
away, they were not half through with examining and talking
and Charles exacted a -promise 'from her to come soon again,
which Dolores was very willing to give. They .reached the older
couple about the same time with Henry and Lucy; but the young
people were too much occupied to notice the closing remarks of
the hostess, who, judging from the earnest countenaie had been
talking'rather serious matters."
"And you will not take it ill, that I thus touched on matters,
that are not my businessY'" she said.
"How can you ask that question ?" he returned reproachfully.
{I would be very ungrateful, not to appreciate your kind motives:
though your friendship to me and mine makes you see things
rather too gloomy, I think. If that man ever deceives me, I shall
lose a faith in human nature and for that, if for no other reason
simcerly he may not."
"Well, it is in human nature, to err" the hostess resumed "and
1 am the last, to claim infallibility. Having told you my suspi-
cion, I feel relieved, and if after all this my warning is not heeded
and you'l come to .harm, Sir, I shall at least have the conscious-
ness, in having done my duty."
"Certainly, certainly" Mr. Fox exclaimed and your words have
proven anew, that you are, what I always thought you to be,-a
true friend. Nor will they be thrown away, iMrs. Fuchs, indeed
they will not and I promise you to keep my eyes open."
"That is all I want,.and in regard to the boys, you will instruct
IMr. Wood?"
"Of course, I will, Mrs. Fuchs and that at once. Indeed I can-
not imagine, what he meant by refusing your husband and I half
believe, there must be a misunderstanding somewhere. At any
rate, I shall soon know and misunderstanding or not, you may
rest assured, that the boys will be admitted into the factory in
.:ny way, that suits you'

DOLORES.                        45
The hostess thanked him and then they shook hands and parted
Fox and the girls resuming their walk to the -factory, which was
now only a few hundred yards distant.
CHAPTER V.
THE SUPERITENDENT.
The buildings were of considerable dimensions and well finished
and the neatness and order prevailing everywhere bore evidence
of an efficient management. The party entered the main building
and going from place to place saw cutlery of all descriptions going
through the various processes of manufactory. Lucy had seen
this so often, that the charm of novelty was lacking ; but with
Dolores it was very different. She was all attention, evidently
taken in the most minute details and asking pertinent questions,
wherever her little head could not furnish the explanation. Mr.
Fox was much pleased at her zeal and furnished all the infor-
ination, she could possible desire. From the main building they
went into another of minor dimensions, in which the various sorts
of knives and forks underwent the last finishing touch. The girls
were delighted with the fine polish lying upon handle and blade
and the eye of Dolores sparkled with delight, when Mr. Fox took
a pocket knife of ingenious desire and more than ordinary beauty
and made her a present of it.
"I am to have this beautiful knife?" she cried in extasies. The
Gift was so much in keeping with the energetic practical charac-
ter of the child, that she enjoyed it very much and came near
being thrown off that balance of mind, which she generally un-
derstood how to preserve so , well. Her eyes beamed with a
brightness more satisfactory to Mr. Fox than ever-so many words
of thank would have been. He was glad to see, that she so soon
regained rhe buoyancy of mind and body, which her excessive
grief at her father's death had made him fear she would be want-
ing for a long time. Her parent had only been buried a day and
now this little girl assumed a' mien, of gayety, that might have
led most observers to the belief, that she was a shallow, heartless


46                     DOLORES.
creature, sacrificing the memory of the dead one to the charms
and allurements of her new situation. Yet such observers would
have been very much mistaken; deep natures like that of Dolores
do not easily show their sorrow on the surface; like deep waters
they preserve their tranquillity, unless agitated by storms of feai-
ful magnitude in which'instance however they pitch their billows
with a startling vehemence. Moreover Dolores had a will, a strong
will and closing the rememberance of her father with filial piety
into the recesses of her heart, she endeavored to spare her bene-
factor the sight of sighs and tears, which would be foreign to him
and, as she thought, unpleasant. Whether she preserved this stoic
composure always when alone-whether she did not often wet
her pillow with her tears in the still hours of night-who knows?
Happy she, if she could control her grief; happy childhood, which
rapidly forgets and already applies a healing balm, before the ar-
row, that inflicted the wound, is well removed.
"Good day, Mr. Fuchs" Fox addressed a man of his own age,
who was busying himself about some machinery, that seemed
out of order. "Always busy, as I see; if you'll stop long enough
to listen, I shall deliver your wife's best wishes to you."
This was said with a jocund air, as one man speaks to. another
of equal standing; yet they slightly confused Mr. Fuchs. Mr.
Fuchs was the true type of the german mechanic, as he emigrates
into this country at mature age and with habits formed. There
were the square strong features of the face, the eyes beaming with
intelligence and good nature, the strong, sturdy frame bent some-
what forward, either by hard work or that modest submissiveness;
which formed an essential element of his earliest training. He
shows a slight embarrassment when addressed by his betters and
in spite of himself cannot unlearn that involuntary motion of his
hand to his cap, when spoken to. Mr. Fox' kindness, instead of
easing the man, oppressed him as it were, with a load of indebt-
edness for so undeserved a condescension and in vain that gentle-
man had through years of intercourse battled, to put Mr. Fuchs
at his ease. That worthy man showed himself as nervous and
fluttered to-day, as at the hour, when Mr. Fox first engaged his
services for the factory-which by the by had been a considerable
number of years ago-and finally Mr. Fox had got used to his
ways and 16 longer minded them. .

DOLORES.                        47
"Why Mr. Fox, that's you" the foreman said starting up in sur-
prise, for he 'had been stooping down with his back towards
the party. He smiled and bowed repeatedly, in the mean time
holding his light working cap suspended above his head. "Quite
a surprise indeed."
"Why man I dont make myself as scarce as that; do I ?"
"Well I think, I havn't seen Mr. Fox for a whole week, I am
sure.
"Indeed, is it that long, I have been absent? Well I guess I'll
do better in future. Your wife, Mr. Fuchs, thinks so at any rate;
I had a good long talk with the worthy lady."
Mr. Fox spoke so meaningly and the look he cast into the
other's eye, was so significant, that the foreman could not help no-
ticing it. He grew more nervous. in consequence and said with
considerable stammering.
"Did she indeed ? Sure, Mr. Fox, I warned her, not to, I told
her, I  . . .. I  . ..."
"Never mind sir" Mr. Fox replied. "I took it, as it was in-
tended and even if your lady were to apprehensive, it would cer-
tainly do no harm. I shall keep my eyes open hereafter and
visit the factory somewhat more frequently."
Mr. Fox had lowered his voice in saying this, still his fear of
being overheard was trifling, compared with that of Mr. Fuchs.
That individual was the ambitudement of fear aod trembling and
turning here and there, cast his eyes in every direction with a
nervousness truly ludicrous. Still Mr. Fox did not laugh at him ;
but in a soothing manner said to him:
"Fear nothing, Sir, he is not present, nor shall he hear the least
about your wife's eommunications; so rest easy on that score. In
regard to your wishes about your boys I shall talk to Mr. Wood
at once. I cannot imagine, what he meant by refusing you-"
'Nor I Mr, Fox, unless he feared, that by the presence of the
boys, my influence with you would be encreased. I know he dis-
likes me, Mr. Fox."
Mr. Fox shook his head.
tI dont really know,. why he should ; he never intimated any-
hing of the kind to me. At any rate, it will avail him nothing.
Rest assured, my ood friend, that I value your services too high.-
y    e ifluenced against you even by Mr. Wood."


DOLORES.                         48
With these words Mr. Fox went on with his conpaniolns and
leaving the factory, approached and entered a one story building,
above whose door the word: "Office" was painted in large striking
letters. In the only room of the building two men were engaged
in rather a lively altercation, so lively indeed that they did not hear
the entrance of Mr. Fox, who in his turn stood still, rather sur.-
Sprised at the tone of a dispute altogether too hot for the office of
a large manufacturing establishment. Besides the disputants
there was a young clerk in the office, who tho' following rhe argu-
ments with much interest had retained sufficient control over his
eyes and ears, to 'notice the entrance of his employer. He was
evidently startled and by various signs and sounds endeavored to
warn one of the disputants of possible troubles. The man thus
warned appeared to fill a position of importance, in the factory;
one could see this from the elegance of his clothes, the easy post-
ure in an arm chair, which he occupied during the altercation,
while his antagonist was standing with his hat in his hand; from
assurance,-some might have termed it presumption-with which
he eyed him: in short, from a certain something, that always be-
speaks authority, though it is apt to change with the character ofl
the occupant from the modest selfreliance of the gentleman to the
swagger of the upstart. We dont want to be hard on appearanc-
es, but we must confess, that we dont like that man's looks at all.
His forehead is low and overhung by masses of coarse black hair,
from under which his small eyes shine forth with a sparkle, that
shares the charm of the rattlesnake, if that reptile really possess-
es the power to hold gazer spell bound. His features were com-
mon, with nothing to repel or to attract. The most singular
qualityy of the man however was his voice, which preserved a son -
orous sweetness even in the heat ofsdispute, what in this instance
evidently had the effect, of irritating his adversary the more.
We sons of Adam have the weakness, of becoming doubly nettled.
when an insult is oflered us in a bland and polite manner.
"Well Mr. Wood" the man addressed the person we have des-
cribed "is that your last word? Is there no chance frr us, to earn
a decent living in this factory? God knows, we haven't done too
well before ; but if you insist upon taking ten more percent from
our wages, we'll have to stint ourselves to dry bread."

/

DOLORES.

49

"Dry bread is very healthy food, my good man, and eaten by
many a fellow, that knows as much and more than you."
The man winced under the taunt.
"May be they stand it, because it is'nt your bread."
"Who compels you, my friend, to eat my bread?" the manager
asked with the greatest suavity.
"Necessity, Sir, and you know it and therefore venture to op-
press a poor man. You know, I can't easily move with a 'large
family; you know, this is my native place and also my comrades',
and you think we'd rather suffer you to flay us, than quit and pull
stakes. But, Mr. Wood let me tell you, there is an end to every
thing and when a fellow is pushed against the wall, he can't back
any further."
Mr. Wood yawned:
"My good man" he said "that will do. I understand you and
you understand me: what then is the use of talking any further?
I have my orders and they must be obeyed; so that ends the
matter."z
It may for you; but not for us. Indeed you always talk of
orders; but somehow, I can't get it into my head, that Mr. Fox
should want to be so hard on us. He used to be very good to us
and fair too, and it's only since you are standing between us and
him, that matters have changed for worse, .,You threaten to ,dis-
charge any one, that complains to Mr. Fox; but if you discharge
ne a dozen times over, I am going to have a talk to him.. May
be I could tell him things...."
Mr. Fox had only overheard the last remarks; but he had'
heard enough, to deem his speedy intervention desirable.
"Myy fsirpple.
"My friends, what is all this about?" he said   forward
and thereby causing both disputants to turn towards him with a
start. Both were alarmed, though perhaps from different reasons;
ut before either had time to respond, Mr. Fox continued:
e whatc     I understood you right, you spoke of calling ont
a I do for you, my friend?"
"Well Mr. Fox," the man replied, letting the rim df- h  a g
Through his fingers "the truth of the matter is, I wanted to ha
a talk to you about your intention of reducing our wages. We
earn little enough as it is, and..
4


50                    DOLORES.
"Reduce your wages ?" Mr. Fox said in surprise "what do you
mean? I never thought of such a thing. Who told you?"
"Why Mr. Wood...."
By this time that gentleman had regained his selfpossession.
Wishing to check all further communications on the part of the
laborer, he interrupted him, saying:
"Mr. Fox, you surely recollect our 'conversation concerning
this, You did not exactly authorize the measure, but I inferred
from your remarks....."
"Something, that was not in them" Mr. Fox said somewhat
sharply. Then recollecting, that it would not answer to lecture
his superintendent before one of the hands, he checked himself.
Turning to the workman, he said:
"Wilcox, this is a misunderstanding, which Mr. Wood. will be
able to explain, no doubt. You may go for the present, to let
your friends know, that we shall do nothing to you and them, but
what is fair. I have some business with Mr- Wood just now; but
if you'll do me the favor of calling at my house this evening or
any time, that suits you, I shall be glad to see you."
"Thank you, Mr. Fox, I shall be glad to call" the man replied
and donning his hat, left the room a much happier fellow, than
appearances had warranted a few minutes ago.
Mr. Fox on the other hand, took a chair and his face bore a
darker expression, than it was wont to show.
"Little ones" he addressed the girls "business is too dry for
your ears and you will undoubtedly prefer to run about, while I
am deliberating with Mr. Wood. George, they haven't seen the
machine room and the engine building. Supposing you lay down
your pen for half an hour a d conduct them around. I charge
you with their safety tho' and expect them back without broken
bones. Be careful therefore and dont let them go too near the
machinery."
George was the young man at the desk. Doing his master's
bidding, he arose and led the girls from the office. After the door
was shut again, Mr. Fox turned to his companion and said:
"Well, cousin Richard, what does all this signify?"
It seemed, that it was Mr. Fox' destiny that day, to astonish
everybody. He had startled his male and female servants, surprised
his son and amazed his wife and now it was the turn of this gent.-

DOLORES.                        51
leman with the cunning eye and the sonorous voice, to experience
the same thing. Mr. Fox was so very-different from what he used
to be; he, spoke so much more sharply, shortly, to the point, that
Mr. Wood for the first time since their long .connection felt em-
barrassed altho' the confusion was but momentary ; using the
sweetest undulations of his voice, he said:
"It signifies, cousin Edward, that I go so far in my devotion to
you, to save you all unnecessary trouble, even at the cost of my
popularity."
"Your popularity? I don't see how that can suffer, by making
me the scapegoat fors our obnoxious measures."
"Obnoxious they nay be-necessary they surely are."
"Necessary? how necessary? I see no reason for this reduc-
tion."
"You will, if you examine the books. Cutlery has fallen in
price and the raw material has risen. The expenses of your house-
hold are considerable, you know, and if you want to'live as
usual-."
"I'll have to press the money out of the sweat of my poor lab-
orers. No Sir, that is not my desire. I was'nt aware tho', that
we lived so very extravagantly, Richard: how much money did
you furnish last month?"
"Three hundred Dollars for household expenses."
"Well, that is enough, but hardly too much. I dont think, such
sums will break us up for a while."
"But Sir" the manager resumed reluctantly "you know there
are other expenses."
"Exactly, Richard, but they are small compared with the above
expense"
"There are, firstly, fifty dollars charged to your private account."
"Well, what more?"
"There are one thousand dollars charged to Mrs. Fox' private
account."
Mr. Fox straightened himself up in his chair.
"Richard, you are joking: one thousand dollars monthly ex-
pdenditure of my wife?"
"Exactly, Sir, not a cent more nor less.
"And the month before, how much?"
"ne thousand dollars."


52                    DOLORES.
"And the month before that?"
"One thousand dollars."
Now it was Mr. Fox' turn to be astounded, yes thunderstruck-
One thousand dollars a month for his wife's private necessities 1
No wonder then, that a new reduction of the laborers' wages
had become necessary. He felt his ire rising within him; but he
was even more ashamed than angry; ashamed of his own neglb-
gence, his culpable ease and indulgence, without which such things.
could never have happened. But this should change now, he
would rouse himself to redoubled energy and exercise a vigilance
over his family, his servants and employees' which would make
such outrages impossible hereafter.
"Why did you never inform me of this, Richard?" he said ab-
ruptly.S
"Inform you Edward? Why of course, I expected you to know
it. How could I think, that cousin Caroline would spend such
sums of money without your knowledge? Indeed I am more as-
tonished at my discovery, than you could possibly be at yours."
Fox felt the point and calculated, that silence would be the best
policy. So changing the topic, he begged Wood to show him the
books and having received them, applied himself to their examin-
ation with so much zeal, that when the girls returned after an
hour's absence, he declared, that he had thought them gone but
one fourth of that time. Still he would not let them wait any
longer, especially since the accounts had evidently been kept with
the most scrupulous care and had still further convinced him of
the fact, that the blame rested chiefly with himself, at least as far
as his wife's prodigality was concerned, and indeed even regard-
ing Mr. Wood's intended measure. towards the hands. Mr. Fox
saw well enough, that such extravagance could not well be indul-
ged in without some penalty and if Mr. Wood preferred to let the
poor laborers pay it and keep this unpleasant fact concealed from
Mr. Fox-why, surely such conduct might show wrong principles
and a false consideration, but still a consideration. Mr. Fox arose
with a troubled mind; he had not yet exactly marked out his
course of conduct, but he had at least resolved to commence the
reform with his own person. Preparing to leave the office he said
to Wood:
"Cousin Richard. I have been a fool, that's evident; but I shall

DOLORES.

take off that, cap now, rely on it. Let matters remain here, as
they were before; but when Mrs. Fox comes for more money, tell
her she cannot have a cent more than $100.00 a month. If she
don't like it, refer her to me."
He was on the point of leaving the office; but remembering
something he had forgotten in his excitement, he once more
turned to the manager.
"Richard" he said, "Mr. Fuchs tells me, that you refused to
-admit his boys into the factory. How is that ?"
Mr. Wood's mien showed plainly, that this question touched
another sore of his. Yet there was no way of avoiding the issue;
-so he summoned courage and replied :
"Well Edward, to tell the truth, I did refuse him. He asked
special privileges, such as wanting his boys to work only p t
of the time and having them turn to anything, they had a min
to. Granting such favors would be a dangerous innovation and I
doubted, whether I had authority, to do it. Therefore I refused."
"Still you. thought you had the authority to reduce .the wages
of all the hands and also forgot that it is as much, an act of
.authority'to refuse is to grant. Conscience is a queer institution
isn't it Richard? But to set yours at ease, I herewith give you
full power to grant the wishes of Mr. Fuchs concerning his boys.
Good day, Sir."
With these words he departed, leaving Mr. Wood and his
junior clerk in a rather perplexed state of mind. They gazed at
one another with a sheepish expression and Wood at last began:
-George, what in all creation does this mean? Do you under-
stand, what has got into the head of the old dolt?"
"Not exactly Mr. Wood; but what I see, means caution. It
would be a nice thing, if Mr. Fox should remain wide awake and
spoil our fine calculations."
"The deuce take him! I'd sooner see him go to h-h, than give
up my plans and my long cherished thirst for vengeance. But
no, this energy of his will not last; it is too sudden to wear."
"And if it lasts contrary to your expectations?"
"Then we must change our tactics. The consummation of our
present plan requires altogether too much time and the slightest
suspicion would at once result in discovery, which would be worse
than failure. No, I cannot bear the thought of disappointment

53


54                     DOLORES.
and if this sudden freak of his should last, we must take measures
to quicken the denouement."
"Perhaps Mrs. Fox can give you the clue to this change."
"She may and I shall call on her, as soon as I can. This sud-
den discovery of her imaginary extravagance is also a bad thing.
It will stop one source, from which we swelled our income; but
"it never rains, but it pours," as the proverb says.
"That is so, and the admittance of the Fuchs boys comes also
very importunely."
"Well, yes, tho' after all I cannot see, how they will harm us
m ch. I was wrong in making any ado about it. I fear the
father more than the boys and a certain something tells me, that
he suspects our operations."
"That old poltroon? Why Richard, I should as soon suspect
my boot-jack. No, I have no fear of him, but a good deal of his
son. There isn't a smarter and more cunning youngster to be
found for five miles around."
"YQu may be right George and it will do no harm, to watch
his movements. , It's surely very vexing though, to be bothered
at a dozen places at once. Sometimes I think, if I had known,
how much trouble would be in store for us, I wouldn't have
embarked on so perilous an undertaking."
"Why Richard! I am astonished. You and Fox seem to have
swapped characters."
"It isn't that George; but I begin to understand what it means,
when the bible says: the way of the transgressor is hard."
George laughed lustily.
"Mr. Wood in the role of the parson !" he cried. "That is too
good and if somebody told me now, the world would come to an
end to-morrow, I should believe it. Indeed I must take some-
medicine to guard against infection; for this madness seems to
be in the air and before I am aware of it, I shall have caught it
myself."
His companion did not heed his mockeries, but brooding over
the dark thoughts, that filled his mind, preserved his silence.
George in order to rouse him, shook him by the shoulder.
"Man, wake up !" lie cried. "If the prospect of wealth and
vengeance cannot stir you up, let the sweet thought of love
requited warm your sluggish blood."

DOLORES.                        55
Wood -started.
"What do you mean? What do you know of love? Listen to
the boy! Hardly fledged lie talks about the passion of a man !"
"You forget the school I am in, Richard" George said with a
sneer. "Under your tuition one ripens fast. But to come back
to the point; it is hardly fair, that you should -try to hide this
courtship of yours from pour faithful ally. It is no use, at all
events, for I know as well as you, that you mean to steal not only
your employer's money, but his wife in the bargain. Do tell
me, how far you have succeeded !"
Wood cast a look upon the other, that made him stop at once.
"George" lie said, "if I were you, I would not meddle with mat-
ters, that don't concern me. We are allies in our attempt upon
the purse of Mr. Fox; but not in any upon his wife. If, what
you hinted at, were true, it would surely be none of your business,
and I'll tell you once for all, that I shall brook no attempt of
yours, to extend our partnership in that direction."
"Jealous !" the young man muttered to himself, as he resumed
his seat, to close an account. "I'll follow your advise and hold my
peace; but at the same time it will not be amiss, to keep a look-
out on your movements. A man, who sells his employer; will not
he slow to sell his friend and it may be well enough to set a trap
or you, that can be sprung, when necessity requires it."
The worthy youngster chuckled at his smartness, but in moral-
izing on his friend's treachery, he forgot the trifling circumstance,
that he came under the same category.
CHAPTER VI.
1)EVELOPMENTs.
Dolores had conquered the basement ; but, -if from this success
she formed the hope of conquering also the buodoir, she was great-
ly mistaken. The servants at least had hearts; but if Mrs. Fox
at all possessed that organ, generally considered the seat of feel-
ing, she did not show it in her conduct. Perhaps her heart had
uindergone a slow process of petrifaction, or it was, may be, so


56                       DOLORES.
filled with her own important self, that there was no room for
other parties in it. She certainly had none for poor Dolores and
from the way, she treated her husband, for him either. Richard
alone could boast of receiving from his mother tokens of affection,
but even these were of a very capricious character and more cal-
culated to injure than to benefit the boy. There was no notion
of his, however odd, which his mother did not gratify, and though
Mr. Fox was far from approving such a course, he kept his coun-
sel for the sake of peace. That exhibition of energy, which had
astonished the whole household, was too antagonistic to his char-
acter, to last any length of time. It had indeed come to a speedy
terminus and Mr. Fox had resumed his old habit of rather yielding
and avoiding, than by decision ruling. Only in regard to Dolores
lie was determined to make an exception; but as the prudent little
creature had quickly read his disposition, she took good care, to
give him no occasion for the scenes of strife and dispute, he shun-
ned so much. She had resolved rather to suffer herself than to
make him suffer and many were the taunts and jeers and insults,
she received from Mrs. Fox and her son, which she bore in pa-
tience,, without even in the slightest intimating their existence
to her friend and protector. This was meant kindly, but for Mr.
Fox' reformation it certainly was unfortunate. Practice makes
perfect, says the adage and the practice wanting, Mr. Fox remain-
ed a bungler in the art of ruling.
We have neither the time nor the disposition to dwell on the
method of torture, which the enemies of Dolores applied in her
case; nor to describe the thousand little tricks, by which they
endeavored to make her uncomfortable; the words containing
poison, the eyes looking daggers, the miens conveying jeers.
There is little pleasure in painting in detail human wickedness;
but it is perfectly intolerable, if it bears upon the innocence of
childhood. Fortunately Dolores had been provided by nature
with various weapons of defense. The attempts of Mrs. Fox she
always met with that sweet forbearance, which in itself is more
calculated to lame the arm of the assailant; than resistance though
as yet her conduct had not lessened the disposition of that woman,
to abuse her, it had at least on various occasions driven the
blush of shame and confusion into her cheeks. Master Robert,
however, Dolores met with other weapons. The threat of Mr. Fox

DOLORES.                         57
had effectually stopped that young man's attempts, to inflict cor-
poral punishment on the little girl. The only way, in which he
now could annoy her, was to abuse her in words and this was a
mode of warfare, in which she was more than a match fdr him.
Returning irony for scorn,-tho' never leaving the precints of de-
corum, which her adversary totally disregarded-she would soon
turn the point and from the position of the one assailed change
to that of the assailer. Punishing him severely by the keenness
of her wit, she would drive him from corner to corner, until at
last he had to beat an unglorious retreat, hating her worse than
ever, but gradually becoming a little shy, to challenge her to en-
gagements, which invariably terminated in his defeat.
As we have intimated, she kept her annoyance carefully con-
cealed from Mr. Fox; but the constant stress upon her mind
could not be endured without injurious results for her ,health.
She grew nervous and the angular forms of her body became still
more angular. She lost both color and appetite and even Mr. Fox,
indifferent observer as he was, could not help noticing the change.
His attention once attracted and his-apprehension roused, he be-
gan to show again a spirit resembling that, with which he had
adopted and installed his little foster-daughter. Taking her hand
and leading her to the very arbor, that had witnesssd their ori-
ginal compact, he made her sit down and looking into her eve
with anxious tenderness, said
"Dolores do you recollect, what you promised ne once, at this
very place?"
"I do, clear father" she said with her usual sweet expression. "I
felt too happy at this place, to ever forget, what was said between
us here."
"You recollect, that you promised, always to love me like a
daughter?"
"And have'nt I loved you so?" the little maiden cried, throwing
her arms around his neck and smiling archly. "Indeed if I tried
ever so hard, I dont think I could love you any better, than I do
now."
"I believe you, darling" lie said, returning her caresses "but
Dolores, love begets confidence, and have you confided to me, as
you ought to have? Look in my eyes child, and answer that ques-
tion ?"


DOLORES.
But Dolores hung her head, the victim of a lively embarrass-
ment, that dyed her cheeks with scarlet and even drove the tears
into her eyes.
"You do not answer, Dolores and by your silence confess your
guilt. Instead of confiding in me, and telling me, that they are
teazing you and worrying you to death, you bear your injury in
silence and let the paleness of your cheeks betray the secret, which
your lips ought to have imparted- Say, was that right; was it
well done?"
Instead of answering, the little one hung her head still deeper
and the tears came trickling more copiously from out her eyes.
"I know your motives, Dolores," he resumed, "and they would
still more endear you to my heart, if that were possible ; but if
I love ease and tranquillity, I value your welfare and happiness
infinitely more highly and would with cheerfulness sacrifize the
former, in order to secure the latter. This cannot be tolerated
any longer ; but what must be done? Tell me, shall I put you in
some institute or other, to pursue a course of study?"
D6lores no longer hung her head. Raising it quickly and
energetically, she answered :
"No, no, father, I will not leave you. If they vex me by their
enmity, you make me much more happy by your effection."
"Heaven knows, I would not like to part with you. What I
proposed was for your good. But if you will not leave me, there
 must t least be some alteration. If this were to go on much
longer rou would waste to a shadow and (lie with consumption
like yor poor father."
The girl thought a moment; then she said
"You spoke of studying. I think, if I could be allowed, to'
learn;I should be happy."
"Allowed? Of course, my good child, you will be allowed; but
where will you study and what?"
"Where?" Dolores said wistfully, "I think I know. There is
Mr. Goodman, to whom Charley Fuchs says his lessons."
"Why sure enough" cried Mr. Fox, "I never thought of him.
He is a worthy man and, as they say, a good teacher. At least he
had made quite a scholar out of Charley. Run Dol and get your
hat and mine, we shall see at once, whether Mr. Goodman will
consent, to bother himself with my lit tle beauty."

DOLORES.                        59
Dolores fairly skimmed the sward as she ran to do his bidding.
When she returned a minute afterwards, she did- no longer look
the pining melancholy child of the morning. The old lustre had
returned to her eyes, the smile to her corners of the mouth and
the glow of health to her cheeks. Mr. Fox was delighted at this
change, thinking, that he had now found the panacea for his
favorite. Leaving the park, the pair took the street in a direction
opposite to the side, where the factory lay. Walking through the
greater part of the village, which formed one long line along the
turnpike, they finally reached a building almost concealed by the
clusters of bushes surrounding it. It was much less presumpt-
uous than the mansion, but yet superior to most of the cottages
of the village, excepting perhaps the house of Mr. Fuchs. It stood
in close proximity, to a venerable stone church, from the numerous
cracks of which ivy and other creepers were hanging in beautiful
profusion and around whose weather-beaten steeple multitudes.
of crows were making short trips filling the air with their
(lismnal cries. The house was the parsonage and Mr. Goodman,
the gentleman they were in search of, the worthy pastor of the
village. He was a widower, having lost his wife a number of
years ago and now living in company with  spinster sister, who,
unlike most old maids, had guarded her heart from shrinking like
her features. She kept house for her brother, and was the oracle
of the village in everything beyond the margin of every-day's
life and Mr. Fox insisted, that in consequence of her conciliatory
counsels the justice of the peace in the village came near starving,
She was now standing in the garden, examining the blue clusters
of grapes, which were approaching ripeness and blinked with
tempting richness at the passers-by. Discerning the visitors, as
they entered the gate, she went to meet them with her hands ex-
tended and a genuine hospitable smile on her wrinkled face.
"Aye, aye ! Mr. Fox and my little Dolores !" she cried, "rare,
but welcome guests. [thought you had forgotten us altogether."
"Why, Miss Sarah, you know the passion of us foxes for
grapes" Mr. Fox said with a cnnning twinkle in his eye and
laughing at his own joke, "I see yours are getting ripe, madam."
Aint, is that the reason of your call?" the damsel said, entering
into the spirit of his remark, "then you really deserve to fare like
your namesake, that didn't get any."


60

DOLORES.

"If I dont, I'll imitate the fellow still further abusing your
grapes all over the village and telling everybody, that they are
sour."
"That would be dreadful Mr. Fox and more than I could stand.
I suppose I'll have to compromise the matter and give you your
.share, even if you dont deserve it."
"Well now, that sounds more reasonable, doesn't it-Doll?
Won't we two pitch in?"
"You won't to-day, my dear sir, because they aint ripe; but
come into the house. I'll call brother Andrew, he'll be glad to
see you, in spite of your dreadful intentions against his grapes."
Miss Goodman led the way and entering the house showed the
guests into one of those old fashioned parlors, where comfort
was the great consideration and boastful elegance a total stranger.
One could sit on the chairs without fear of their frail legs and
step on the carpet with out risking the displeasure of the lady of
the house, for soiling a handsome flower in the pattern. Excus-
ing herself, Miss Sarah left the room, but shortly afterwards re-
turned with her brother, who shook hands with his guests, show-
ing the genuine cordiality and guileless simplicity, which Oliver.
Goldsmith so beautifully depicts in the parson's colleague, the
vicar of Wakefield. If the reader will kindly allow me to sub-
stitute that famous portrait of a worthy minister for my own,he
has the character of Andrew Goodman to the letter. No worthier
man ever filled the pulpit than he, and in all his bearings, be it
as the preacher of the gospel, the teacher of his flock, the visitor
of the sick or the genial companion at the fireside-he showed an
amiability, which was perfectly captivating and caused the whole
village to look upon him with pride, love and respect.
"Ah! my dear Mr. Fox" he said with a touch of sarcasm, "how
fortunate for me, to be the proprietor of those handsome grapes.
They secure me at least one visit a year from your worthy self."
"Don't scold, Mr. Goodman" Fox replied. "You somehow
-Are less apt at it, than anything else."
"There you are right Mr. Fox" Miss Sarah interrupted, "but
it's no wonder, for he attempts it so very rarely."
"Practice makes perfect, Miss Sarah. However Mr. Goodman
is perfect in so many other things, that-he can well afford, to do
without the perfection at scolding."

DOLORES.                         61
"You'll spoil him by your flattery."
"I'll run the risk, madam. But Mr. Goodman, you were right
in blaming me for having selfish motives in my present visit.
Isn't the grapes tho', that brought me this time, 't is something
worse."
"Let us have it.. After your warning, I am prepared to receive
the shock without detriment to my nerves."
"Well, sir, I have the intention of trespassing on your valuable
time. This little girl of mine has conceived the idea, that she
must needs drink at the fountain of knowledge and that nobody
)ut Mr. Goodman is fit to administer the draught. What do you
say now sir?"
"1 say, that the idea of stilling the thirst of a good little girl
like Dolores is much more comfortable, than that of having a fox
after one's grapes"
"Thank you Sir. Am I to understand from your reply, that
you would really charge yourself with the 'instruction of my
daughter?"
"That is my intention, Sir, and I can assure you, that, instead
of being a trouble; it will be nothing but a pleasure. I have been
watching the little Miss and from my observations and the praise
of my pupil, Charley Fuchs, I have an idea, that Dolores will make
a good scholar."
"I am glad, to hear you say so. Pll leave the matter entirely
to your excellent judgment. When do you want Dolores to com-
mence?"
"The sooner the better. The fall is drawing near and if you.
want the little one to accomplish much, before your removal to
town, she cannot begin too soon."
Mr. Fox' face got very sober.
"It is a fact ;" he said "four more weeks and our country life
will be at an end. I hate town, I do, heartily and if it wasn't for
Mrs. Fox, I should stay here all the year round."
,,Well, Mr. Fox I share your views ;" Miss Sarah remarked "if
I were to stay in town a single winter, I think I'd die with suffo-
cation. I pitty the little ones on account of their confinement.
"Oh! Lucy and Dick are used to it; they even share their moth-
er's liking for town."
"But this little one: wont she feel like a bird in a cage?"


.2                     DOLORES.
''I fear she will and that too like one picked at by mischivious
atbirds." Mr. Fox said with a sigh.
"Why, I do not understand you, Mr. Fox" the parson remarked
with some wonderment in his voice. What does your smile sig-
nify ?"
Mr. Fox shrugged his shoulders.
"Mr. Goodman, I wouldn't tell everybody; but with you I'm
safe enough.- Did you never notice, that there is some opposi-
tion in the mansion to this little one?"
The parson nodded.
"I sometimes thought so much; but from charity discredited
my supposition. If Dolores is disliked by your family, her resi-
dence in town will surely be unpleasant."
"Unpleasant is hardly strong enough a term. Still, what am I
to do? I cannot leave the girl alone in the big empty house, with
the servants ?"
"Hardly" Miss Sarah replied "but if I knew, that brother
Andrew would concur, I think I could find an expedient."
Mr. Goodman smiled.
"j think, I do anticipate your proposition.  At all events
you canl make none,, that would not meet with my hearty appro-
bation.'
"Thank you, Andrew. I thought if you would agree and Mr.
Fox be willing, to part with his charge during the wintermonths,
it would give us much pleasure, to receive the little girl into our
household during that time."
Mr. Goodman nodded with a mien that seemed to say:
"Exactly! that's what I expected and-.suits me to perfection.
Such a.dear little creature will lighten up our somber house."
Dolores looked "shy. She moved nearer to Mr. Fox and took
his hand.
"They may be very good people" her motion said, "but they
ain't my dear foster-father after all."
Mr. Fox was much affected by this unexpected kindness. It
really relieved him of a load of doubt and anxiety, which the very
thought of removing Dolores to the narrow sphere of his winter-
residence, where she would be much more exposed to the malice
of her adversaries, had created. Rising and taking the lady's hand,
he said:

DOLORES                          63
-Miss Sarah, that is just like you; but much more than I had a
right to expect. From the bottom of my heart I thank you for your
offer, and accept it on condition, that you will allow a compensa.
tion for the outlay occasioned by Dolores, presence."
"Never mind the compensation" Mr. Goodman said "which is a
secondary matter. We forget that Dolores is also a party to the
agreement. Her countenance does not look, as if she liked it
very much."
The face of the girl was indeed much clouded up, and tears
were shining in. the corners of her eyes; but Mr. Goodman's
words had a wonderful effect upon her. Checking her feelings
with that strong will, we have noticed in the girl before, she tried
to smile and with considerable firmness said:
"Of course, I wouldn't like to leave my dear good father, and
I was sorry for a little while, when you talked about it; very sorry
indeed. But I know also, that he wouldn't want to leave me here
if it wasn't for my good. So I won't be sorry any  more, at least,
I'll try not to."
Mr. Fox looked at the others with an inquiring glance.
"Just as I thought" he said "just as I expected my little
daughter to speak. Mr. Goodman, I never saw the like of it; al-
ways right, always sensible; she has a wonderful perception of
propriety. Nor can she be spoiled either, or I wouldn't praise
her in her face. I praise the day, that bestowed this gift upon
me."
Dolores hung her head. It was evident that she was less fond
of praise than of doing right. Mr. Goodman looked at her ap-
provingly and Sarah stroked her hair, which, however, would not
be straightened out, but with a rebellious obstinacy always spring
hack into its original curly condition.
"She is a good girl" the damsel said, "and it shall be my
endeavors to make her miss her good papa as little as possible.
Our house is.a little quiet and old fashioned, but I think Dolores
will like it well enough."
"At any rate she has a respite of four weeks and in that time
will get to know us a little better" Mr. Goodman suggested. "I
think like Sarah, that we shall succeed in reconciling te young
lady to her fate."
"Reconcile?" Mr. Fox replied. "1 think she will be reconciled.


4;-                     DOLORES.
I have half a notion to make you certify in writing that I merely
lend you the child; for when I return in the spring, she'll be so
fond of you and the parsonage, that I'll have difficulty in coaxing
her back to the mansion."
This was said jestingly and with the purpose of giving the con~
versation a cheerful turn; but Dolores took it in earnest and
would have protested, if the others had let her. As it was, Sarah
proposed a ramble over the house and the ground, to which the
child assented. By the hand of her new friend and prospective
foster-mother, she started on her tour, which gave her much pleas~
ure and soon put her on familiar terms with the spinster. They
saw the house and the yard and the outbuildings with the fowls and
cows and other stock; they walked through the flower and vege-
table gardens, which distinguished themselves by taste and neat-
ness, spurning the very thought of weeds. Dolores had seen
gardening on a larger scale at the mansion, but what those of the
parsonage lacked in size, they made up in taste and neatness, so
that Sarah's fear of a disparaging comparison was entirely un-
founded. ' Dolores was pleased and her honest countenance'
showed as plainly as could be, that her tongue did not dissemble.
Encouraged by the little girl's tokens of enjoyment, Miss Sarah-
extended their ramble to the adjacent church, showing her first,
the grounds, which were no longer used for burying purposes and
then the edifice itself. Climbing the winding stairs, that led into-
the steeple, they stepped upon a gallery, from which a charming
view-the most charming one of all her experience, Dolores de-
clared-met their eye, showing not only the beautiful valley, in
whose midst the church was lying, but also the blue expanse of-
the ocean to the far and almost invisible, line, where sky and
water kissed each other. From the gallery they could look over
the intervening clusters of trees and see the craggy shore of the
little bay, which from the. ocean penetrated into the coast and;
where the restless, neverweary waves had eat out the softer parts.
of the rocks, leaving the harder ribs standing in the most phan-
tastic forms and shapes. To-day, with such mild and pleasant,
weather, it required some stretch of imagination to realize that
these gentle rippling waves should have been able to reach the-
the top of those towering crags and, more than that, eaten out a
considerable portion of their substance; but Miss Sarah warned

DOLORES.                        65
Dolores not to form an idea of the sea by a summer's sojourn on
the coast, It would be en erroneous one, she said and the blasts
of winter would soon rectify the wrong impression. But who
could think of storms and desolation, when all nature breathed
joy and tranquility? Dolores could not tire of looking at the lit-
tle bay, forming a rather precarious harbor and containing that
,afternoon a dozen fishing vessels and quite a number of smaller
,crafts of various descriptions from the boat with mast and sail
down to the nutshell of a skiff, propelled mereiy by means of oars.
The gils eyes would not withdraw from the pretty picture, but
pointing out to her companion one beauty after another, she got
quite excited. This excitement however got to its climax, when
all at once she saw a sailing boat draw its graceful furrows
through the water, which she recognized as that of Charles and
Henry Fuchs. Two young men were in the craft and although
the distance was too great, to recognize the features, the size and
the suits of the boys left Dolores no doubt, that the brother's
were in the vessel.
"It is Charles !" she cried, making no mention at all of the
.second figure and thereby unconsciously showing her predilec-
tion "it is Charles sailing in his craft. He showed it  me the
other day and promised to take me out and he must do it.too, for
.oh see Miss Sarah, isn't it beautiful?"
Miss Sarah agreed and indulged her young friend as long as
possible. When she thought it time to return to the house, she
only needed to say, that Mr. Fox would be waiting; for no soon-
er had the words left her lips, when the little girl hastennd down
stairs, taking two steps at the time, making it a hard task for
Miss Sarah. to keep up. This also the considerate little creature
did see and stopping to await the damsel's arrival, apologized for
her want of consideration. Miss Sarah was much pleased; she
congratulated herself upon her splendid idea of receiving this
little girl with the bright understanding and the sensitive perg.
ception into her household. It is a pleasure, to manage clever,
docile children and Sarah, in guiding this gifted girl, anticipated
the same pleasure though in a higher sense, which the horseman
experiences in a steed of delicate mouth, which feels and obeys
the slightest pull of the rein, or the sailor in the craft, that spins
like a top on her heels, minds the helm in fair weather and foul
5

4


66                       DOLORES.
and dives through the salty element like the duck in search of
fish.
When the two reached the parlor, they found it empty; the
parson and his guest had long ago settled the question regard-
ing Dolores' instruction and in imitation of the ladies, left the
house in search of nature and her beauties. Sarah and her charge
found them walking the very covered archway, whose fruit had
furnished the topic of the innocent badinage, we have recorded
on a previous occasion. They heard Mr. Fox say :
"You may draw on me for $100.00, Sir, in support of your be-
nevolent efforts. In fact you will always find me ready to aid'
you in any project of charity according to my means. A man
that has a little money, ought surely not to hesitate to give in a
cause where his betters spend time and comfort and health. No
thanks, Sir, I should feel ashamed to receive it. But ah, there are
the ladies. Dolores, Mr. Goodman has kindly consented to take
you in charge as early as to-morrow. He will furnish you with
such books, as you may need. And now good bye, my friends.
Am I not to be envied? I need neither say: fare gently with my
child, nor on the other hand: honor the mouth of thy teacher,,
for wisdom floweth therefrom. Both these wishes are a fixed
fact, a matter of course. Good bye, good bye."
CHAPTER VII.
THE TEMPTER.
That same afternoon anther scene was being enacted at the
mansion, which is my duty to describe, tho' I do not take much
pleasure in making the attempt. The public are as much blase
in their reading matter as in most other things and to satisfy
them, villains of the deepest dye, their doings and their victims
must be depicted. Nothing less, than foul murders, villainous
plots, hairbreadth's escapes andseductions or abductions will
answer, and the fair readers seem to forget altogether, that, to.
make us write all these things,-however true and natural,-they
-condemn us to a close companionship with people, who are any-

DOLORES.                        67
thing but prelossessing.lThey make us breathe as it were, the
foul air of their dens, listen to their low language, familiarize
thatelvy swith their mode of thinking and feeling and perhaps in
 wysbJeu      thedanger of a slight taint adhering to
our own person, and of assuming rats which we pretend to ab-
hrartandwtochpainremerelto'ad
hor and to paint merely, in order to have them be abhorred by
others and presented as a warning example to the
simple. Still as my tale requires it and no reasoning of mine is
likely to effect a change in the public taste ason, I may as
well go to work, and bring before my reader's eye oon,  who
the world esteemed a fair cop of agentean; but  whom
maynowclssiy aco 1n cpy o  gentleman; but whom they.
may now classify according to their own conceptions of right and
bwrong.......
"Susan where is Mr. Fox?"
"Gone out, Mr. Wood, with Miss Dolores."
"Miss indeed! and Mrs. Fox?"
"Is dressing for a ride.. I heard her bid Richard, to have the
brown mare hitched to the new buggy"
"Very well Susan; when she comes down stairs, tell her, I am
in the parlor."
Mr. Wood deposited his hat ont     aw             o
room, where about ten minutes afterwards, he wasjoined by the
mistress of the house."jon                           yth
"Ah! cousin Richard" she said with a smile, offering him her
gloved hand "a rare guest indeed. I havn't seen you for a century
and am therefore doubly sorry, not to be able to enjoy your visit.
In going t    iv to town, to do a little shopping. Will you
kindly excuse me?"
"Who is to take you, Caroline?"
"Why, Dick; I hear him driving the buggy before the house,
even now,"
"Lethus go out then; I dont want to keep you waiting."
As the two stepped on the portico, they saw Richard Jr. sitting
in the gy,ip in hand, his face radiant with the expecta-
tion of the drive.
"Dick
"Dicky, my boy" Mr. Wood addressed him "I have a favor, to
ask."
"What is it uncle?"
Want you, to give me your seat in the buggy."


68                    DOLORES.
The boy's miens grew sullen.
"I won't do it, Sir," he said shortly.
Mrs. Fox looked inquiringly at Mr. Wood.
"I think, you will Dick" that gentleman said, "as 5oon as you
have heard the rest of my proposition. If you will give me your
seat in the buggy, I shall give you a note to George, to the effect,
that he may saddle my pony for you and give you my new gun,
so that you may have a ride and a hunt at the same time."
Mr. Wood knew, that theboy fancied his pony more than all
the horses in his own stable; but to make the offer irresistable
he added the offer of the new gun, which Richard had thus far
'never been allowed to touch. The effect was as marked as sud-
den. Jumping from his seat, the boy cried eagerly :
"Agreed Sir, hurry up and write me the note."
Wood did his bidding; tearing a leaf from his diary, he pen-
cilled a few hasty lines. Handing the paper to the boy, he signi-
fled to Mrs. Fox his readiness to assume his duties as cavalier
attendant. The lady said nothing; but taking her seat in the
carriage and allowing him the place at her side, suffered him to
drive from the park into the road, without asking an explanation
of his conduct. Still when they had passed the factory and Wood
seemed exclusively engaged with the management of the horse,
she remarked:
"Richard what is the matter with you? I didn't interfere in
your bargain with my boy, because I know, that you are not the
man to do a thing without a cause. But yet your explanation is
'not forthcoming and I must confess, that I am curious, to receive
it."
"Patience Caroline" he answered "my explanation was already
coming; but I have to tell you so many things to-day and things
of such importance, that I was arranging them in my mind, in or-
der not to forget any of them. Now I am prepared."
He broke off, but after a few moments he resumed:
"Let me go back a piece, Caroline, back to the time, when you
and I were children, children of poor parents, but happy withal.
We were constant playmates, you recollect and Richard Wood
was of'nothing more fond and proud, than of his cousinCaroline.
'Was it not so, madam ?"
Mrs. Fox seemed somewhat uneasy, even annoyed at his way..

DOLORES.                       69
"May be it was, Richard;" she answered "but what is the use
of calling up these recollections? If that was your only pur-
pose-"
"Stop Caroline, do not form hasty conclusions. I said that
Richard Wood was fond and proud of his cousin and his fond-
ness grew with his years. I was a passionate boy, you know, and
when my fondness changed into love, it was no common passion,
but one that rooted deeply in my soul and could not be torn out
but at the expense of life."
"But Richard ..-  theLady said with evident uneasiness.
Your words are painful to me; please desist...."
"Desist?" Why, Caroline, you might as well order Vesuvius
to stop, when with a mighty inner pressure he bursts the bowels
of the earth, hurling rocks and lava to the sky. No, madam, I
have been silent long enough and even if I wished to remain so
longer I could not. Painful? what does it matter? You may
well afford to endure a moment's pain after the long years of suf-
fering you have caused me."
Mrs. Fox said nothing, though it was evident, that she was the
prey of conflicting emotions..
"Yes, I loved you deeply, sincerely, passionately then and if you
had consented to be mine, I would have been like wax in your
hands and you might have made an honest man of me; you might
have even inspired me for great achievements and enabled me to
write my name on the tablets of fame."
Again he paused ; but if he expected a reply, he was mistaken.
Mrs. Fox sat still and motionless, with her head averted, with
only the violent trembling of her hands betraying her deep emo-
tion.
"You chose the contrary" he resumed "and by casting me off
sealed my fate. My passion, which if requited, would have made
me foremost among the good, drove me irresistibly to wicked
oghts and evil practices, when spurned."
"Richard" she now broke in with a faltering voice "your me-
mory serves you wrong, for your love was not spurned; only...'
Oh! I remember well enough" he said bitterly "you said you
loved me in return but you had more ambition yet than love.
You ridiculed the idea of love in a hut and insisted:upon the ne-
cessity of wealth and position, to keep love alive and prevent it


70

DOLORES.

from becoming a bane instead of a blessing. You bade me wait
-and strive and while I waited and strove, you accepted the hand
of a man, you did not love, merely because he offered you at once
what with me lay in a distant and very uncertain future."
"I shall not dwell upon the period of wretchedness that follow-
ed your marriage" he continued, when she did not reply "I shall
not tell you of the awful thoughts of suicide, of murder to which
I then fell a prey. Yes your life and his were in imminent dang-
er for months in succession and if I spared you, it was, because
my hope refused to die and because my vengeance was not satis-
fied with the mere death of him, that shut on me the gates of
-paradise. I lived and suffered him to live, in order to henceforth
entertain no other thought, no other purpose but vengeance. For
that purpose I sold myself into his service, worked for him day
andnight and played the faithful friend, to gain his confidence
and thus the power to destroy him. Vengeance was my meat
and drink, vengeance und another passion. Caroline, when you,
a bride, stepped from your father's house and saw despair in
your wretched cousin's eye, you took his hand and whispered in-
to his ear a word of consolation, which alone prevented him from
turning mad. Caroline, say, do you recollect ?"
He tried to catch her eye, but failed.
You must remember" he continued "for I 'cannot believe, that
wanton cruelty should have ,dictated those words of comfort.
You said : Richard, live, love and hope ! Well, Caroline, I have
lived, I have hoped, I still love as ardently as ever: say, will my
patience be rewarded?"
Mrs. Fox was evidently crushed by this confession and the ex-
pectation connected with it.
"0 Richard !" she cried "this comes so unexpectedly. After
a long silence of 16 years, this passionate avowal. How can you
hold the wife, the mother of grown children responsible for the
foolish promise of a thoughtless girl."
"Thoughtless you were not, Caroline- A girl, who can disre-
gard the dictates of her heart and sell herself for mammon,is not
thoughtless. Nor can this my avowal come altogether unexpect-
ed. Has not my life during these 16 years of slavery been one
act of devotion and fidelity to you? . Have I not on all occasions
taken care of your interest at the expense of his? Have I not

DOLORES.                        71
endeavored to accumulate large sums, which at any moment are
at your disposal?"
"I think by dividing these sums with you, I have fairly paid
you for your services" she said with a slight touch of sarcasm.
"Paid? no, you have not paid me; for what is money to me
without you, to share it? When I agreed to take my poition. it
was merely to gain your consent for the measure and to invest it
for you as a faithful steward."
"But Richard, this sudden disclosure almost overwhelms me :
why do you speak now, after so long a silence?"
"Because I knew, that you wanted gold and that wihout it, you
would reject me as readily now as sixteen years ago. To gain
you, I needed gold and to get gold, I have plotted hard, using
fair means and foul and now after a servitude longer than Jacob's
I step before you, to receive my compensation: am I to be cheat-
ed out of it?"
His language became threatening, but it did not displease Mrs.
Fox. She had something in her nature, which understood such
fierce wooing and perhaps was fascinated more by it, than she
would have beenlby sweet and flattering persuasion. She dislik-
ed her husband for nothing more, than his easy yielding disposi-
tion, though-strange contradiction-she was very ready to bene-
fit by it and rule him with a rod of iron. There was undoubted-
ly a genial element in the pair, now driving in that buggy and if
she hesitated, to grant his wishes, it was more the fear of the cen-
sure of the world, that would fall on the guilty wife, than any
serious scruple of her conscience. So wavering between the wish
to gratify him and the fear of the unavoidable consequences of
such a step, she said:
'But Richard, be reasonable! Consider what you ask? Re-
member what abuse the world would heap upon the, faithless wife
and mother."
They would say nothing, Caroline, fqr do you think, that I
would expose the woman of my love to idle gossip? No let me
see to that; only requite my love and I'll shelter you against the
world."
"How can you avoid such censure Richard? If I were weak
enough to follow your dictate and that of a silly heart: how could
you avoid, exposing me to the censure of the public?"

K


72,                    DOLORES.
"Let that be my care Caroline. If you belong to me, I shall
have strength and cunning sufficient, to accomplish anything."
"Then-you-you do not-do not purpose to take me from
my house?"
Shame was as yet alive and made her stammer but "it is only
the first step, that costs" the adage says and when we see the
fallen woman again, we shall no longer notice the blush of shame
upon her cheek.
"Not for the present, Caroline. My plans are not mature;
though the time may not be far distant when I can claim you
openly and fearlessly before the world."
"But Richard how can I dare to step before him and my child-
ren witha guilty conscience? I'd sink into the ground with
shame."
"Before that dolt? before a man, who is no man? whom you
cannot help despising with all your heart? Come'dear Caroline,,
you surely are not weak enough for that !"
Thus he spoke to her, now flattering and persuading-now us-
ing threats and fierce exclamations, until at last, he reached his,
object. Indeed the battle was not very obstinate: a woman ready
to scorn and ridicule her husband, will not be slow, to dishonor
him.......
That evening Mrs. Fox did not return to her house the unpol-
luted wife, she had left it.
CHAPTER VIII.
AN .ADVENTURE.
It was now late in October and Dolores had just taken her
abode in the parsonage. Usually the family of the mansion had
left for town three weeks sooner ; but this time for a- wonder
Mrs. Fox had been the cause of delay. She seemed all at, once-
to take an interest in nature, which had never been noticed in her
before, and almost daily planned excursions into the surround--
ing country., Mr. Fox also loved nature; but not exactly in his
wife's company and-felt grateful to Mr. Wood for offering to take

DOLORES                         73
charge of her on such occasions. He preferred to stroll about
with Lucy and Dolores, the latter of which had by this time
plunged into her studies with a zest, that promised great results.
She had recovered her buoyant spirit and even gained more flesh,
than she had lost, and when Mr. Fox told her how proud he was
of her on account of Mr. Goodman's praise, a perfect radiance lit
up her countenance.. Besides, she thought, she noticed a change
in Mrs. Fox' conduct towards her and the hope of sooner or later
gaining her love, contributed much to her present happiness.
Now however they had all left and Dolores shared the company
of the minister and his sister. True, the parting from her foster-
father had made her sad; A ehad already learned to love and
respect her new friends by that time and the assurance of an ear-
ly reunion would not suffer her to be dejected any length of time.
Indeed she had no leisure for sadness. Her studies were so in-
teresting and nature, in spite of the lateness of the season, was so
beautitul! In fact its beauty had rather increased, than diminish-
ed; for Jack Frost had already at nights bitten the leaves of the
trees and thus clothed them in their magnificent dresses of gold
and scarlet and purple and brown. They were evidently enjoy-
ing their carnival before a long winter and only give way/the ar-
rival of frolicsome spring.
The nuts were ripe and in spare hours Dolores in the company
of gallant Charles Fuchs would scour the woods and return with
heavy baskets full of the precious fruit, that was to shorten the
long evening hours of winter. The intimacy between the pair,
which -a similar disposition had created, had been enhanced by
the pursuit of kindred studies- True, Charles was far in advance
of Dolores; but they had the same teacher, studied in the same
room and, what was more.possessed the same thirst of knowledge.
It was really wonderful, what progress Dolores made. The child
did not seem to acquire by any effort; the knowledge seemed al-
ready to lie within her and only to require the touch of the teach-
er's magic wand, to spring into sight. To say, that Mr. Good-
man was surprised, would hardly describe that gentleman's emo-
tion. He was amazed; he did not understand it; but con d only
second Mr. Fox' statement, when that gentleman had said: it lies
within her ; she is as good as wise, a perfect little wonder. Yet
she was childlike withal, not one of your precious women, whose


74                     DOLORES.
maturity is produced by the sting of the worm eating its way to
the core. Her amiability captivated all, she came in contact with
and Charles who had no sisters, doted upon her with the fondness
of a brother. Though reserved and even somewhat domineering
to other children, including Henry-the consequence of the hom-
age involuntarily paid by inferior minds to those superior-he
was all gentleness and attention to Dolores, humoring her wishes
and even guessing those, she hesitated to express.
Thus far, they had not found a chance, to carry out the long
cherished plan of a sailing excursion in Charlie's boat; but as the
season was getting late, bringing squally weather and sudden
changes, they agreed, that the next fair day should be made a
holiday and devoted to that purpose. So when one Saturday
morning the sun rose in a cloudless sky, with merely a gentle
breeze creating a rustle in the leaves, Charles and Henry appear-
ed at the parsonage dressed in their sailor suits and summoned
Dolores, to prepare for the trip without.delay. The child requi-
red no urging ; in less than 10 minutes she stood before her
friends ready to receive Miss Sarah's warnings to be cautious
and the large basket containing all the dainties that were to grace
the voyage.
"Do, Child be careful now" she enjoined for the thirtieth time
"and you Charles take good care of her, my lad."
"Never fear, Miss Sarah. You know, I would not for the world
expose Dolores; so rest easy on that score. But now we must
depart or noon will be upon us before we know it. Good bye
Miss Sarah."
So off they went, taking With them the best wishes of the par-
son and his sister. The walk to the bay consumed only a few
minutes and was soon accomplished by these young elastic feet.
Now they reached the boat and Dolores was helped in and the
basket with the provissions depositetlin a box at the stern, the
cover of which served as a seat. Next Charles jumped in erect
ing the mast and getting the sail in order, while Henry loosened
the chain, ready to drop it and follow his brother into the boat.
"All right!" cries Charles, a spring of Henry and the sail be-
gins to fill and propel the light vessel over the water. Charles
sits at the stern, with one hand handling the rudder and with the

DOLORES.                        7J
other the line, that regulates the sail. Henry is in the bow
watching for his brother's words of command and ready to ex-
ecute them on the spot. At Charles side sits Dolores, with flut-
tering heart, all excitement at the novelty of the amusement, but
not yet all delight. Charles laughes at her, when she seizes his
arm with a nervous grasp at any sudden turn of the boat; but
soon she gets used to its motions and then no longer furnishes
stuff for merriment. Her fear subsides; but her excitement re-
maining, assumes the character of pure delight. Now leaning
over board and letting her fingers trail through the water, now
clasping her hands in extacy over some new point of beauty re-
vealing itself to her eye; now laughing, at Charles quaint remarks
or amusing the boys in return by those of her own invention,
she was the very picture of happiness and assumed a radiant
beauty, such as Charles had never noticed in her before.
"Dolores" he said smiling "I really think, the water is your
element, I shouldn't wonder much, to see you suddenly change
into a water fairy and return to the element, from which you may
be, were taken merely by mistake."
"Why Charles, yes, that would be fun. To live down there
amongst the pretty fishes, in palaces of corals and seaweeds :
wouldn't it be splendid?"
"I don't know about that, Dol. I have'nt much of a taste for
brine as a beverage."
"Oh water-faries don't drink salt water, Charles.' They live on
goldfish and sea stars, you know."
"I don't know whether I should like them any better."
"Oh you are hard to please Charles, I know your mother spoils
you with all the dainties she cooks and bakes for you. But I do
say, it would be fun, to live down there and surprise you when
sailing in your boat, by diving from 'the water."
"Well, Dol, it might be fun for you, but then what should we
(1 without you? 1tiss Sarah would make a pretty fuss indeed
on learning that you had turned a ;sprite."
"Why yes, I see it wouldn't answer at all Charles. Miss Sarah
might miss me and Mr. Fox surely would. So I wont dive yet
for a while. But Charles what are you doing? Ain't we going too
far from shore?"
"Why no, that is the fun. I see the wind is getting favorable

[,.


76

//

DOLORES.

for a good cruise and I am bound, to show you the sailing quali-
ties of the mermaid."
Dolores had implicit faith in her companion's skill and strength
so she acquiesed in his decision and instead of fretting abandon-
ed herself to a full enjoyment of the hour. Receiving the wind
from the rear at an obtuse angle with her course, the boat cut
the waves with the rapidity of the seabird and thereby created in
the bosom of the girl the pleasure always engendered by rapid
motion. Her curls fluttering in the wind, her eyes dilated her
mouth drinking eagerly the bracing air she revelled in the beau-
ties of the ocean with an abandonment, which pleased and flatter-
ed Charles. It was he, that had procured this recreation for Dol-
ores .and he was gratified to see her so delighted. Since the above
remarks no words had been exchanged between the trio; they
seemed too happy, to speak much, thus verifying the truth, that
great bliss inclines to pensiveness rather than boisterous mirth.
At last Dolores remarked:
"Charles you promised the other day, to tell me some beauti-
ful fairy tale; supposing you do it now. I think it would be
doubly beautiful on the sea."
"Perhaps you are right Dolores ; but I wish you knew german,
the tales I know are german tales and they sound much prettier
in that language than in any other."
"German? yes you told me, your parents are germans, coming
from a beautiful country beyond the sea. I wish, I knew german."
"So do I Dolores ; it would give you access to so many beauti-
ful books."
"Is it very hard to learn?"
"It is not very easy Dol, but you could learn it easily enough."
"Would you teach me Charles?"
Of course, I would. Strange, that I never thought of this be-
fore."
"Why no Charles, it is not so very strange. We have'nt known
one another so long yet."
"I know Dol, we haven't; but still it, seems to Ine, as if I had
known you all the while."
"And so it seems to me Charles. I suppose it is, because we
are such very good friends together. But as to german, tell me
the name of one of your stories in german."

DOLORES.                        77
"Oh! Dol, there are so many of them, that it is hard to pick.
There is for instance "Dornroeschen."
"Dornroeschen?" Dolores said with an accent so correct, as if
she had spoken german all her life, "why that is not hard to un-
derstand; it sounds familiar to me, say: doesn't it mean as much
as "Briarrose?"
"Of course it does" Charles said with a look of surprise "Dol
you are a strange girl, I never saw one like you before."
"Why am I strange Charles ?"
"Because yon know everything beforehand. Mr. Goodman says
you do and you will soon excel me, if I don't look out ; he says."
"Pshaw! Charlie, you are making fun of me."
"Not the least, Dolores. You are a strange girl and I shouldn't
at all wonder, to see you turn into a mermaid in good earnest,"
"I like that word "Dornroeschen" said Dolores abruptly, as if
she wanted to change the conversation: "but I should like to
know some more; try me on another name."
"Schneewitchen" then."
"Oh; you take easy ones. Every body might know that that
means Snowwhite."
"No indeed, every body wouldn't; for every body isn't Dolor-
es. But here is another:
"Aschenpuddel"
"Why that is some one, who puddles in the ashes; if german is
no harder than that, I'll soon know it"
"I shouldn't wonder, if you knew it now" the boy replied "Lis-
ten and see whether you don't."
And then he began the pretty story of Briarrose in his moth-
er's tongue, which I shall not repeat here. On the one hand it
is familiar to almost every body; on the other I am afraid but few
of my readers would understand it; for with all due respect to
them in regard to the german language I think with Charlie, that
they would not be all of them like Dolores.
While Charlie spoke and at the same time keenly eyed her,
Dolores sat like one dreaming. It was evident from the expres-
sion of her face, which varied with the modulations of the story,
that the words beat not meaningless against her ear but reached
the seat of understanding; but it was clear at* the same time, that
e impression was by no means distinct and well defined. The


girl listened more with her instinct, as it were, than with her rea-
son, or rather like one, that listens to something far away and in
spite of strenuous efforts, only succeeds in getting a faint idea of
the meaning. Nevertheless, when Dolores related to Charles the'
-story, as she had understood it, he was so astonished, that he was
scarcely able, to tell her so.
"Dolores, you are making fun of me now? he said positively..
You do understand german."
"If I do, I didn't know it."
"Were you, ever in Germany?"
"I was not, Charlie."
"But you were with Germans in this country?"         .
"I may have been, Charlie; but never long, at, least I do not.
recollect of ever hearing words like those you spoke before."
"Your father came from Italy ?"
"Yes, sir."
"And your mother ?"
"Came from there too, for all I know."
"Wonderful, wonderful !" he muttered and for a while became
very silent, evidently turning this enigma over and over in his
mind, without finding a solution. From this silence his broth-,
er's voice roused him.
"Charles" he said, if you want to go to the cemetery to-day, it
is time to shift. It must be past twelve and we have a long tack
to go there."
Charles looked at the sun and nodded.
"You are right Henry" he replied. "I had got into a brown
study."
The sail was shifted and the boat obeying the new impulse, no
longer stood into the sea, but in a diagonal line approached the
shore in a north-western direction. They might there be about
two miles from the coast and from the course of the boat Dolor-
es judged, that they would strike land about the same distance-
above the harbor from which they had started. The name ceme-
tery had struck the girl and after pondering upon its possible,
character in this connection, she at last inquired :
"Henry spoke about a cemetery. I wasn't aware that there is
a place of that kind at the coast about here."

"There isn't either, Dol. Only the people call it so from the
many rocks, which stand in the water, tombstone fashion."
"O yes, I recollect now. Miss Sarah spoke about such a'place
the other day, saying it was haunted."
"You know, what that  ans Dol?'
"Of course, I do, thong I dont believe in it. It means, that it
is visited by ghosts,"
,'Ain't you afraid of ghosts, Dol ?"
"Not a bit Charlie, for there ain't any."
"Well I dont know, some say there ain't, but other's swear, there
are and that they have seen them. I hope you arte not afraid to
go to such a place ?"
"No Charlie, I am not" the girl said so quietly, that the boy
had no reason to doubt her word, and therefore continued to hold
his boat in a position,.that would effect his purpose.
"I have my special reason, Dol, to go to the cemetery" he said
"I have been told, that there is an eagle's nest somewhere up
there and I shall try, to get the young ones."
"You haven't been there then very lately, Charlie?"
"No Dol, to tell the truth, I have never been there yet."
"Why, that is funny: you aint afraid?"
"Of course I am not, but other people are, you know."
He winked at his brother.
"You mean Henry is? But that need not keep you away."
"I know, but mother is afraid and she always made me promise
not to, go."
"And you would disobey her to-day Charles?" the girl said
with a touch of reproach.
"No, not exactly Dol.  The truth is, she didn't make me
promise to-day."
"Perhaps she forgot."
"May be, she did Dol" he said with a laugh, "but that is her
lookout and not mine, you know. I am bound, to benefit by the
chance and try for the eagles. But Henry, what is the matter?
What are you doing?"
"Getting my fishing tackle ready, Charly. I promised mother
some fish and want you, to put me off on the rocky island. You
know, they bite well there, and when you come back, I expect to
have more than mother wants."

78

DOLORES.

79,

DOLORES.


80

t

DOLORES.

"What a thoughtful boy and dutiful son! Charles exclaimed
with a touch of sarcasm and a wink at Dolores. "Henry isn't a
bit afraid, not lie; but then mother wants fish, you know and so
he can't visit the cemetery."
"Henry colored slightly and the glance he cast at his brother
was anything but friendly., But when Dolores laughed he joined,
in the chorus, probably thinking, that it was the best thing he
could do. Nothing more was said about his motives; but Char-.
les resumed:
"Dol, the rocky island is well worth seeing; and as it is noon
and time, to think of dinner, we may as well cast anchor th ere
and take our meal on '-terra firma."
This proposition was agreed to and the course continued. By
this time the characteristic features of the coast began to show
themselves. While the main shore rose in high crags of more than
100 feet almost perpendicularly, masses of scattered rocks from
5 to 10 feet high at the time of the tide rose from the water, re-
sembling to a certain degree the tombstones of a gravyard, es-
pecjally when seen from the distance, and thus justifying the po-
)ular appellation, of the cemetery which, as above mentioned, had
been bestowed upon it by the country people. Being of limestone
the rocks by their whitish color strengthened the impression.
Near the coast they gradually grew higher, thereby creating the
idea, that the graveyard was situated on a hillside, exposing to
gaze almost every monument. The flat rock, which Henry had
honored with the name of "island" was the only exception from
the general rule, in as far as it had not the shape of a thin pillar,
but of a table rock some 3 feet above water at ordinary tide and
about 20 'feet square. It was a short distance from the other
rocks, appearing to stand to them in the same relation of fore-
runner, which they themselves sustained to the main shore. The
water around this island was deep and free of reefs and as an iron
ring had been riveted in the rock, our travellers found no diffi-
culty in fastening their boat to the island.
"In the name of my sovereign queen, Dolores di Gatana, I take
possession of this island." Charles said with a laugh, springing
on the rock and swinging his straw hat. Then turning to the
boat, he bowed with mock reverence and said:
"Does it please your Majesty to dine on her newly-gained soil

DOLORES.

81

-rock I meant to say-or does she prefer the shadow of the
sail?"
"The sail will be more acceptable for the repast" Dolores said
with graceful condescension, happily imitating the style of her
friend; "but I must confess, that I am well inclined, to pay a
visit to this land of mine, to acquaint myself with its manners,
and customs and to let the sun of my royal grace shine upon its
inhabitants. Stewart, you will in my absence make due prepar-
ations for a pleasant meal, for it pleases my royal stomach, to
share the weakness of common mortals, so vulgarly called hung-
er. And now Sir Chamberlain, if you will reach me your loyal
right, I shall endeavor, to ascend my rocky realm."
Charles in silence did her bidding. He had made up his mind
hence not to wonder at anything he might see in this little creat-
tire ; for the grace and dignity with which she spoke, was truly
marvelous and would have done credit to Any real princess.
Walking around on the rock the pair enjoyed the beauty of the
scenery, especially the view on the rocks, which from that spot
was really grand. The white pillars looming from the deep with
their bases washed by the rippling waves, offering a great variety
in their fantastic forms, rising gradually to the height of the
crags composing the shore; here and there crowding closely to-
gether, while at other places they allowed rooms for little basins,
whose watery bottom however remained invisible-these pillars,
I say were well worthy examining and Charles and Dolores hast-
ened to their meal, in order, to be able, to commence their ex-
ploring expedition as soon as possible.
Henry had already brought forth the basket with the eatables
of Miss Sarah's concoction and their -savory nature in connec-
tion with the good appetite of the adventurers made then disap-
pear fast.
When they had finished, Henry took his tackle, jumped on the
rock and loosening the rope, allowed the boat to yield to the pres-
sure of the tide which was near its height and gently carried the
the boat towards the rocks. The sail had been furled, and the
mast taken down, because they were of no benefit amongst the
crags, and a pair of oars in the hands of Charles were used to
propel the boat instead. The young man handled them with ex-
6

I

I


82                     DOLORES.
emplary skill; but before entering the labyrinth, he stopped a
moment.                                                b
"Henry" he said "hadn't you better come along? We may be
hours in returning and in case of ennui you'd have no means of
reaching the shore without us"
"Never mind Charles: you know I am fond of fishing and shall
think the hours too short, if anything."
"But, Henry, we might be prevented from returning at all, by
getting entangled in one of these many channels."
"That wouldn't better my case much. Charlie" Henry said
laughing "on the contrary, under such circumstances I could
benefit you, instead of being benefitted. Mother knows, that I
meant to fish here; if we aint back at dusk, she'll cause a boat to
come in search of us."
"Well, as you please. May be you are right. Good bye Henry
and much pleasure to you.'"
Henry's "likewise" was still echoing among the rocks, when
the boat had already turned the corner and gone out of sight.
They swam in a channel or rather a multitude of channels, which
were so like one another, that strangers found great difficulty in
distinguishing the right one. Charles noticed this from the first
and with a readiness and circumspection, which would have done
credit to a navigator of experience, he impressed certain features
of the rocks around him on his mind. Still this was all he could
do and so he begged Dolores to keep a lookout for game, laying
his gun in reach of his hand, in case an eagle or other bird should
present itself. Dolores would have liked to know more about
the story of this strange place, since Charles had intimated, that"
he was aquainted with it ; but seeing that he was too busy, to
narrate it just then, she curbed her curiosity and waiting for a
favorable opportunity, eagerly send her eyes around in search of
game. Nothing however would present itself and the solemn si-
lence of the place, rather deepened than broken by the rippling
of the water or the clashing of the oars, fell like a damper upon
the gay spirit of the girl. At one of those basins, I have men-
tioned, Chairles stopped his boat and said:
"So Dol; here let us halt a while and look around us. This
basin must serve us as a landmark, to shape our course; if we'
forget our entrance, my whole trouble will be in vain. Do you

DOLORES.                        83
see these two rocks together, looking like a pair of weatherbeat-
en salts in their overalls? Very well; our channel lies between
them. Now for our next steps. It is hard to say, in which
tion the shore lies. These rocks are getting so high, that they
exclude the sight of everything, even that of the sun."
"But not his shadow" Dolores suggested.
Charles started.
"Dol, you are a jewel" he said "the smartest little thing that
ever wore skirts. You think of things, that escaped this
head of mine. To the deuce with all my measures of precaution-
If on returning we can't see the sun, the shadow will indicate
our course."
But the sky may cloud up."
"Oh well, the world may perish, for that matter; one mustn't
always expect the woi-st.."
So they went on, directing their course by keeping the sunlit
side of the rocks to their right.
"Can't you-tell me now, what the people say about this place
Charlie?" Dolores inquired.
"Why' yes, I may as well; it isn't much though and nonsense
at best. The story goes that many years ago aoiratenfrequented
this place, hiding his vessel and his treasures in s?me cave in the
crags. One day, while on sea, he fell in with aman-of-wa  th
had been in search of him. It was too late to run away and
moreover the pirate was not much inclined to run. So in spite of
heavy odds against him he accepted fight and skillfully baffled all
the efforts of his foes, to take him. At last however his mast
was shot away; the ship became unmanagable and the crew of
the man-of-war succeeded in boarding his vessel. The cread-
ful hand-to-hand fight ensued, in which no quarter was given 
either side. The pirates fought with desparation, their captain
at their head: they never yielded; until, receiving the mortal
wound, they would fall on the deck, never to arise. At r last the
captain alone was left. Seeing his comrades dead, he benefitted
by the dusk of evening, which in the meantime had crept upon the
vessels, and jumping into the sea, succeeded in reaching a little
boat, that, ad been trailing behind his vessel ath ing ot
the figh.'0utig hero      beginning of
height.  Cutting the rope, he managed to get away from the
ships and. by,-meanso  aro  as h    reeadtetd          n


84                     DOLORES.
reached the neighboring shore and his hiding place. But he saw
so much exhausted, that he fell upon the ground in a fit of faint-
ing, never to awaken again. The wounds he had received in the
fight, though not mortal of themselves, had become fatal in con-
sequence of the loss'of blood. Slowly, but surely the flood of
life was oozing out, until at last the vital spark became extinct
and the wicked, but brave buccaneer lay a corpse upon the beach,
that hid his treasures."
"That story makes me shudder, Charlie" Dolores said after a
pause "but yet I like it. Does the story not tell the pirate's
name ?"
"It does" he replied with a light hesitancy "it calls him Fox.'
"Fox? why, it is funny, he should be called like my father.'"
"It is, Dol and what is queerer yet, malignant tongues whisper
of a relationship between the pirate and the family of the man-
sion. But this is all nonsense of course. I dont believe the part
relating to the man's existance, much less that one connecting
him with our Mr. Fox.'"
"Nor I Charlie" she said with indignation. "To think of it!
My good foster-father the relation of a bloodthirsty pirate!"
"It isn't likely, Dol; tho' stranger things have happened for
that matter. But here is another basin and-let me see-yes
surely, that is the shore. Do you s'ee, how the crags are hanging.
together on top?"
"Yes Charlie; but at the bottom are large fissures. May be,
we can pass through."
"I'll soon find out Dol. Look out, that you dont strike your
head against some prQjecting edge. But what is this? Oh Dol,
how beautiful !"
This exclamation s drawn from him by the strange beauty
of the place, which they had reached on passing through the fis-
sure. The sky was no longer over head: but a dome like vault
of limestone rock loomed more than 50 feet above instead. Nar-
row fissures on the sides and the top admitted the rays of the
sun, which, flitting like as many streaks of gold through the vault
lit up the space with a colored light of a subdued brightness.
The bottom consisted partly of water, partly of snow-white sand
on which in one corner several bones and a scull became visible.
On the right the water entered into another fissure, naturally sug.-

DOLORES.                        85
gesting the idea, that the cave continued on that side. The place
was extremely beautiful, though showing a beauty in which the
august and even awful predominated.
When Charles had uttered the above exclamation, the boat
grated on the sand and with the impulse of the lass store glided
far enough up, to remain fastened. Charles sprang on shore and
reaching his hand to Dolores, assisting her in also gaining the
ground. They looked around like bewildered and, when they no-
ticed the bones, the girl drew nearer to her companion.
"The pirate's cave!" she cried half loud.
"Yes and his skeleton" he replied.. "I begin to believe that
there is.something in the story after all. But isn't that lovely?
I could almost fancy a freebooter's life with such an abode to
dwell in."
"And such a death to die" Dolores said "no Charlie you would
do no such thing."
"May be, I wouldn't Dol" he said laughing "but if the story is
true so far, may be that part about the fellow's treasures is also
correct. We must bring a pick, and shovel, to dig for them."
The girl shuddered.
"I wouldn't want money, on which the blood of poor murder-
ed people is sticking" she said. "Come- Charlie, let us leave this
place; it makes a person feel so wild and wicked."
"Little goosy !" he said with a laugh "you wild and wicked? I
defy any place to make you wicked."
"Well I don't care, I am afraid and wish to leave."
"If that is so, I suppose, I'll have to humor you. But before
we go, let me examine that fissure just for a moment. You see
there is a strip of dry sand along the water, which will enable us,
to pass with dry feet."
She yielded with evident reluclance; but his ardent desire of
farther discoveries made him for once disregard her wishes. Tak-
ing his shot gun on his shoulder and extanding his hand to his
companion, he walked with her towards the fissure mentioned
and following the strip of dry sand soon reached another cave of
smaller dimensions but similar character, whieh howeves was
much more poorly lit up. In fact so somber was the vault, that
Charles with his feet struck against an object, which his eyeshade
faled to discover.-


DOLORES.
"That sounds like wood, Dol" he said relinquishing her hand
for a moment'in order to ascertain the nature of his discovery."
"Indeed it is a box and a heavy onetoo" he continued in an
excited manner. "Dol this is an adventure. If this box should
contain gold !"
"Give me your hand Charlie and let us go" Dolores said with a
tone of urging supplication. You know I am no coward; but
here my heart is failing me. I feel as if some evil thing will hap-
pen us."
"Very well, Dol" he answered soothingly "I'll not press the
matter now.' The discovery may suffice for to-day and its devel-
opment be left to another time. Come let us return."
Suiting the action to his words he entered the passage with
Dolores, when, all at once the sounds of oars striking the water,
mixed with guarded voices of men, fell upon their ears. They
stopped and Charles felt the hand of Dolores tightening around
his own.
"I knew it" she said " th a whisper "I knew that something
would befall us. If you had only minded my warning."
"Your warning would have been too late child. But I don't
believe in danger yet. We shall most likely meet another com-
pany of visitor; though I didn't think, that the cemetery was so
much frequented. But hush, the're coming."
Remaining in the fissure they now heard the noise getting
more distinct every moment and at last saw a large boat with
some'eight or ten men gliding into the first vault. There were
several boxes in the boat; but Charles had not much time, to ex-
amine them, for no sooner had the new comers seen the boat on
the sand, when all of them uttered loud exclamations of surprise
mixed with copious curses,
"H-1 and damnation !" cried one of them, who seemed to be
their leader, at the same time springing on the .sandy bottom
"what does this signify ? An intruder in our cave? Where is he
that I may send him to the fishes of the sea, for surely he'll not
leave this place alive."
His companions followed him, making boisterous demonstra-
tions of their indignation and swearing numerous oaths reiterat-
the declaration of their leader, to at once dispatch the intruder
or intruders.

DOLORES.

87

This was a trying moment for our young friends and if they
had yielded to their fear and thrown themselves with cries and
lamentations at the feet of the men, who so fearfully threatened
their lives, we would have no reason, to be at all surprised. Still
then did not and those expecting great things from Charles Fuchs'
unusual qualities, would not have been disappointed, if they could
have witnessed his conduct.
"Back into the cave" he whispered to the girl "you are not
safe here; I'll guard the entrance."
Urging her back with his hand, he expected to have her follow
his injunctions, although he had no time to convince himself, for
the strangers finding the first cave empty were already hastening
towards the second. Charles had not a moment to lose. Caus-
ing the muzzle of his gun to become visible to the eyes of the ap-
proaching party he cried with a loud voice:
"Back!"
The sound, breaking against the rocky walls, filled the grotto,
with an uproar, truly startling. It accomplished its object how-
,ever, for the men came to a dead stop, probably more affected by
.surprise than fear.
"Who ventures to impede our progress?" the leader inquired,
while the others preserved an expectant silence.
"One, who has the power, to enforce his dictates. One more
step and I shall order my companions to fire."
"But who are you? and what are you doing in there?"
"As to the first question, I must refuse to gratify yqur curios-
ity. As to the second you may know, that we came biy chance."
"Then you knew nothing of the cave?"
"Nothing but the idle rumor in the moutlhof the people."
"But we cannot allow you to return. If you do not surrender
all at once, we shall attack you and shoot you down like dogs."
"It takes two to make a bargain. I We shall defend our lives as
well as we can."'
The intrepid tone in which this was said, did not fail, to im-
press the men. The passage wasnarrow and only to be affected
in single file. They did not know, how large the party in the
second cave might be and taking all the things into consideration
the attack, which the leader had threatened was a pretty risky af-
fair. Putting their heads together the men seemed to deliberate

7


/

88

DOLORES.

on the best course 'to pursue; but before they had come to a con-
clusion, the voice from the passage attracted their attention.
"We dont know, who you are" it said "nor do we care to learn
it. We are not interested in this cave and were brought here by
the merest chance. Now under these circumstances, I should
" think we could come to an understanding, which would on the
one hand your secret and on the other our retreat.."
"How would you secure our secret" the leader of the strangers
replied.
"By swearing to respect it."
"What security would you give us for keeping your oath'?
"That could hardly satisfy us."
"Well to get away from here, we would have to confide in your
oath; why shouldn't you trust us o s much?"
"That is, you mean that we should swear, to let you go, in case
you could satisfy us, as to your discretion?"
"Exactly. Under no other circumstances could we consent, to-
surrender ourselves to your mercy."
"Well; I think, we must decline that offer. It will be much eas-
ier, to starve you out and thus compel your surrender without
condition."
"You forget some circumstances calculated to interfere with
that arrangement."
"And which ones, pray.'
"Firstly you leave out of your calculation the fact, that while
we are protected from your attacks, a guard of yours would be
subject to our bullets."
Ah indeed ! And the other circumstance "
"Some of our party are on the ocean fishing. They know, that
we intended to visit the cemetery and if we dont return at sunset,
they will surely come here with a force, to trace u's."
The other suffered an imprecation to slip through his lips.
"You see, that to blocade us, instead of securing your secret
would only endanger it the more" The voice from the passage
proceeded.
"Curse you and the whole of them" the speaker said savagely.
"What business had you, to put your saucy face into a pie, that
don't concern your"
"We had no idea of meeting you or anybody here."

DOLORES.                        89
Again the men put their heads together for a consultation..
After a few minutes they seemed to have come to a resolution,,
for the leader turning towards the fissure said :
"My friends have authorized me to accept your proposition.
So you may come out and give your pledge."
"Not unless you swear, to let us go unobstructed." Raise your
hand and speak, as I speak.
The men did his bidding and faithfuily repeated the oath by
which they bound themselves not to do any injury to such party
or parties occupying at that moment the inner cave. This being
done, Charles boldly stepped into their presence leading by the
hand his trembling companion. The men looked blank. Was
this the formidable party, that had threatened their destruction
in case of an attack? They had been sold by a boy, but while
they felt mortified at this humilation, they could not help admi-
ring the fortitude and cunning, with which one so young had
averted a fearful destiny.
"Is that the whole party?" the leader inquired in a tone holding
the middle between a scowl and a laugh.
"The whole party in the cave, yes Sir."
"And you are not afraid, that we will punish you for your de-
ception?"
"You forget your oath, sir. Besides, I do not recollect of
having deceived you."
"You spoke of an outside party ."
"I spoke the truth. If we are here detained, there will be
many persons out this very evening, to search for us, and it
would certainly be strange, if they should miss the cave."
"You may be right sir; but even if we could trust you on your
oath, this little girl will surely tell on us."
"No, I will not sir" Dolores answered, conquering her fear and
stepping forward. You can trust me as safely as Charlie. In-
deed I am no tattle tale."
"I'll answer for Dolores" Charles now remarked.
"She is no common child and what she says, she will faithfully
adhere to."
"She looks like it" the man resumed. "At any rate we have to
run the risk. What is her name Sir?"
"Dolores di Gatana."

V


90                      DOLORES.
"That is an outlandish name. Where does she reside?"
"At the mansion in the village, with Mr. Fox."
The man cast a significant look at his comrades. -
"And your name" he inquired.
"Charles Fuchs, of the same place."
"Very well Charles Fuchs, I shall note these names and if ever
we learn that you have violated your pledge, you will learn at
your cost, that we can not safely be trifled with. And now you
both solemnly swear, that for two years you will neither return
to this place nor tell any human soul about its existence."
"We do" the pair responded.
"Well, in that case you may go. I trust that a lad, who has
shown such selfcontrol and sagacity beyond his years, will show
himself as trust worthy, as he. was prudent."
"You may rely upon it" Charles replied and then helping Dol-
ores into the boat and taking a seat in it himself, propelled the
vessel from a place, which had verynearly become fatal to them.
They remained silent for a few minutes; but Charles had too
buoyant a spirit, to remain dejected long; so he roused himself
saying:
"Well Dol, that was a real adventure wasn't it?"
"I dont like adventures, Charlie" Dolores said with a shake
of her head, her natural cheerfulness still battling with the de-
pression her nerves had experienced in consequence of the late
exciting ordeal. "They are much nicer to read about, than to
go through. Please, do row fast, so as to get away from these
savage men. They must be pirates surely."
"Hardly, Dol, or we should have heard of depredations on the
coast."
"Why then should they hide in caves and fear to be discovered?"
"They may have many reasons, for what I know. They may
be smugglers for instance."
"Is smuggling so dangerous."
"It is punished with fines and imprisonment; but Dol, what is
this? We. have lost our way; this is not the channel in which
we came, it is much wider."
"So it is Charlie and there is the cave again. Oh! quick ! let
us get away from the ugly place."
Charles in his excitement--for we imagine that even his pulse

DOLORES.                        91
had beaten with increased rapidity--had evidently missed the
right direction and describing a curve, had returned to the basin
before the cave. Fearing to fare worse in a second contact with
the party in tbe cave, he rowed away as fast as he could choosing
the wide channel, on account of the greater chance for speed it
offered. But he had hardly gone over a space of a few hundred
yards, when an exclamation of Dolores caused him to cease row-
ing and to turn around. There at a distance of not more than a
hundred feet lay a small brig, barely visible through the fissures
and interval of the rocks, which at that place were less densely
planted. A boat like that which the two had seen in the cave,
was lying at the side-of the vessel and a party of men were bus-
ily engaged in loading it with boxes by means ofa pulley, which
was fastened to the end of the main sail-yard. Fortunately the
men were too busy with their work to notice the pair in the boat
and Charles soon succeeded in gaining a point, where they were
secure against discovery.
"The plot thickens Dol" the lad said with a l)zzled counten-
ance but I'feel pretty sure now, that my guess was not much
amiss."
"What guess, Charlie?"
"That the men in the cave are smugglers."
"But what should they smuggle at this point ?"
"That's what puzzles me. If they only hadn't secured our si-
lence by making us swear, I'd soon smoke them out and know all
about it."
Another exclamation of the girl caused another stoppage of
the lad's labor. Turning around lie saw, before him an avenue
of considerable width at the end of which was the sea. This av-
enue however was not open, but closed by a large number of
rocks, which stood there even more densely than-at most other
places, just as if nature had intended to hide this easy access to
the harbor, where the brig was riding at anchor. The outlet was.
on the left hand side, hardly visible from the ocean, because
guarded by various gropes of rocky pillars, which concealed the
entrance without impeding it. Through the intervals of the clos-
ing palisades they saw the rocky island and oh. it the figure of
Henry, who was evidently deeply engrossed with this sport.
When they first discoerd him, he was just engaged in hauling


92 ,DOLORES.
up a fish and Dolores requested her companion to take her out
at once, because she wanted to see the sport. Turning the corner,
tha boat soon swam on the open sea, loudly welcomed by the boy
on the rock, who in spite of his entertaining passtime, was evi-
dently giad, to see the adventurers safely return from a place so
badly reputed in the village. Seeing his brother without any
booty he laughed and said triumphantly:
"Where are the eagles Charles? Wouldn't the ghos, allow you
to take them away'? May be I chose the better part this time;
for look at the fish, I caught in the mean time. Did you ever see
more splendid fellows?"
Charles, and Dolores could not help admiring the really fine
fish, which Henry displayed, by raising from the water a line, to
which they had been fastened in order to prevent their exposure
to the sun. A desire of imitation seizing them, they both went
on the rock and threw their tackles in the water; but without
much success, to the delight of Henry, who continued to be as
lucky, or-as he pretented-skillful, as ever. Half an hour after
the return of the others he declared his intention to stop, as he
would find difficulty in taking to the house, the fish he had caught
already. The others acquiesced and it really seemed, as if the
desire of changing the current of their thoughts, more than the
pleasure of the sport had induced them, to make an attempt at
fishing. The trio went into the boat and rowing in silence to the
place of landing, deserted the vessel in a much more sober mood.
than that in which they had entered it.
CHAPTER IX.
FLUcTUATIOxs.
If anything had been wanting to complete the intimacy of
Charles and Dolores, it was the common secret, which 'they were
now compelled to harbor in their hearts. Being prevented from
confmunicating their discoveries and adventures to others they
could not refrain from making them the topic of frequent con-
versations. Their friendship moreover became so fast and ardent

DOLORES.                         93
from the fact, that they had both of them no other channels for
their flow of feeling. As we have said before Charles was of a
reserved and somewhat lauglity disposition and even his brother
Henry did not escape the condescending nonchalance with which
he treated both boys and girls of his acquaintance. He was cons-
cious of his mental and physical superiority and this is no wond-
er, for not only in school had he long ago outdistanced all com-
petitors for distinction, but also on many hard fought battle-field
proved his superior strength and prowess. Experiencing no op-
position in anything he did or said, he had unconsciously acqui-
red the vice, resulting from unrestrained sway, i. e. willfulness
and imperiousness. Even his parents yielded to his influence
and it was well for the young man, that his intellect was so strong
and his taste and disposition so pure, or the want of wholesome
restraint might have proved even more injurious, than it really
did. As it was he only had acquired the evil habits spoken of
and the hatred of ever so many individuals of his age and sex,
who had once been rivals and all of them sustained defeats more
or less humilating. Like all persons of prominence -he did not
escape either hatred or envy, though so far, he had found in the
knowledge of this fact merely a source of proud exultation, a
proof that as yet his enemies had not succeeded in touching any
vital spot.
His brother Henry was no exception from the rule. As long
as he could think, Charles had always been an authority to him,
too brave which was totally out of question. But ready obedi-
ence engenders the relation of master and servant and this rela-
tion excludes friendship. We have heard and read of ardent at-
tachments between such parties but on close examination always
found that they failed to stand the test of friendship. The slave
may love his master with fidelity; but the dog does the same
thing; and yet the animal crouching at his master's feet, is not
his friend in the true sense of the word. The master may dote.
upon- his servant with warm affection, he may love him sufficient-
ly to expose his life for him: still pure friendship he cannot feel,
because the principal and fundamental condition of friendship is
equality.
Henry did not love his brother, while the latter only enter-
tained a feeling of kind toleration for the former. Yet Henry


94                       DOLORES.
wash h            brother's inferior in intellect, as in character.
not so mucprehended things as fast; but his thirst of knowledge, in-
stead of being the steady even flame, that seeks to light up the
dark recesses of nature, resembled more the fitful, wayward streak
of lightning, more consuming and destroying, than ennobling and
enlightening. Between such flashes long periods of total darkness
were the rule for him and instead of being the joy of his parent;
teachers he had proved to them a source of sorrow and vexation
in proportion to his growing age.
They had constantly drawn a parallel between him and his
brother extolling the latter at his expense and this though per-
haps just enough, ad in no small degree influenced his feelings
towards Charles. Now,he latter's new attachment to Dolores
had made matters ev  worse; for the spare moments of the
eldea-bother, which had formerly in a measure been devoted to
the younger one, were now much more pleasantly spent in Dolo-
res' company. It is hard to say, how Henry would have liked
the girl under different circumstances: as it was, the influence she-
acquired over onegenerallyT so in accessable and the additional
estrangement it causedbetween them-much as it was against her'
wish and will-could hardly be productive of much sympathy
between them.-
For Charles however the acquisition of his new friend was very
fortunate. What he had failed to meet with amongst all his com-
rades-an equal spirit with which his own might struggle with-
out the danger of too great a preeminency, lie now found unex-
pectedly in this little girl. He had at first attempted to treat her.
ike the others, but experienced a signal failure. Yet she had
not rebuked him, not bandied words with him, or in the least.
assumed the position of an antagonist;-no, there was a certain
something in her quiet unobtrusive manner, which said more ef-
fectually than any words could have done it:
"Stop, sir, if you please; this will not answer in my case. Ify
u and I are to be friends, it must be on a different footing."
This language her manners had spoken with much benefit to
him. He not only abstained from attempts, to domineer over
her;, but showed  even more regard for the wishes and feelings ofo
othrsndespcialyhi paets who tho' proud of their promnis.
igsn cod espec is toalyblind to his faults, They noticed

DOLORES.                        95
the change and ascribing it correctly to her influence, received
the girl in their house and arms with parental fondness and vied
with the parson and his sister, to make her happy.
It is not to be wondered at, that under these genial circum-
stances the happy germs in this gifted creature's nature develop-
ped with.a truly astonishing rapidity. Her course of study might
fitly be compared to the race of the noble steed, which out-dist-.
ancing all competitors,. reaches the mark in an incredibly short
time and thus gains the palm. But while some children skip aind
hurry over the field of learning, to show a piece-meal erudition a
superficial and fragmentory knowledge as the result, that of Dol-
ores was the very reverse. To learn a thing and to remember it,
was the same with her and Charles was more than once compel-
led to have recourse to her memory in matters pertaining to the
rudimental studies. Such applications however, instead of caus-
ing jealousy, gave him much delight, as they were so many reas-
ons in his eyes, why he should love and cherish this clever child..
One day, he found an Italian quotation in one of his books and
being ignorant of that language went to Dolores to have it trans-
lated. It was the first Italian she had seen for a good while and
r eye lit up with enthusiasm when she interpreted thequota-
tion. She found a little difficlyficulty in doing it however and ex-
pressed her fear to Charles, that she would soon forget her native
tongue from want of practice. This remark resulted in the adopt-
tion of a new study for the two, in which the general order was
rersed Dolores appearing as teacher and Charles as her pupil.
sWe know him to be an apt scholar; but 3 et his progress in Ital-
ian, great as it was, was far from equalling the proficiency, which
hedgirl soon acquired in German. Before a month of study had
passed, the was able to understand the parents of Charles Fuchs
and converse with them fluently on all ordinary topTics.,u
Charles maintained, that even Dolores could not have accompli-
shed this, if the language had not been, as it were, sleeping in her
mind. She must have understood it in early childhood "he said"
or all smartness in creation would not divest this phenomenon of
its miraculous character.
So the winter was one of earnest study and genial intercourse
i the house, but it was also one of healty recreation and pleasant.
passtime -without, No sooner had winter with icy hand bound-


96                     DOLORES.
up the streams and pounds and spread a warm covering of snow
over the sleeping herbs and flowers. when the young people ex-
posed their persons to its icy breath, now gliding on skates over
the glassy ice, now hitching Charles' own horse to a handsome
sleigh and at the merry tickling of the bells, flying with the swift-
ness of an arrow over the smooth course.
At last christmas came, bringing Mr. Fox himself, instead of the
box with presents, which Dolores had been led to expeet. Not
that the box had been left behind-o no ! it also came along and
much larger, than expected. Now Dolores was all lif and O
and motion, not on account of the presents, not she! Th gir
a grateful heart and amidst so much love and affection had not
forgotten him, who had befriended her before all others and ex-
tended to her a helping hand at the expense of his domestic peace.
Dolores was not blind to his imperfections; but they did not in
the least affect the love she bore him. Dolores thought so at inf
rate, or rather felt so ; for as we have more than once. intimated,
this little girl reasoned by perception and argued by intuition.
When 'first he alighted from the carriage at the parsonage she
flew into his embrace and for a long while would not release im.
At last when she withdrew her arms, she commented on his
apearance, telling him, that the sojourn in town did not at all
agree with him. And she was right; for he had got much thin-
ner and an additional wrinkle had laid itself across his forehead.
At first, in the excitement of reunion this wrinkle did not amount
to much and the merry emotions of his heart seemed not only to
have the power to smooth that one, but all the others also. But
when the first uproar had subsided and his features had glided
back into every day's shape the wrinkle returned and deepened
and obtruded itself upon the gazer, as if it meant to say : Here
I am! here I mean to remain, I am a reality, I am a. chapter of
this man's history, as you can learn, if you only have the key,
that opens his lips.
With Dolores the case was different ; her body had developed
almost as rapidly as her mind and the glow on her cheeks intens-
ified by the bracing winter air spoke of health and strength-.
Three short months had hardly elapsed since his departure to the
city and yet this girl had gained that roundness of form which
only childhood can give so rapidly and which therefore is maine4

DOLORES.
in the cold,--whoknow&amp; how long-fondling his girl and askin
and answering questions, if Miss Sarah had not finally
and ihsinuated, that a continuation in the parlor would be ted
able all around. So'they went in and the box was also b
though under protesv too,    ,nc;th"  bx ws  lsobought,
ug rpr since: it must. not bel opened before
Christmas  eve. Then Dolores told. him, that Mrs. Fuchs was
going to have a beautiful christmas tree and had invited her, to
be her guest that night and then argued, that Mr. Fox must also
go, or she couldn't at all think of it and yet liked to uo  so
much. Mr. Fox promised her, to go along if she could secure
him an invitation, a task which Dolores took upon herself with a
.gravity truly becoming.
Mr. Fox could not stay long. Besides the desire to see Dolor-
'es, the condition of the factory had necessitated his presence. In
commenting to the parson on the latter subject, the wrinkle on
;is brow grew a little deeper, and it was evident that pecuniary
troubles had been added to the domestic ones. Themanage-
ment of Mr. Wood was without a "flaw" he said to the minister,
and yet the income had been so much reduced, as hardly to meet
the many expenses unavoidable in so large a household as his.
ie wanted to see for himself, he said, though 'he knew before
hand, that it would avail him nothing, since he could do no bet-
ter or hardly so well as Mr. Wood, whose only fault was over-
great fidelity to his employer-
To this Mr. Goodman neither objected nor assented. Person-
ally he did not like Mr. Wood; but he was far too honorable to
allow his likes or dislikes to influence his words or actid u
less they were seconded by outside reasons of weight  The la
orers in the factory did not like Mr. Wood either; they had often
intimated it to Mr. Goodman; but severity was not necessarily
iniquity and Mr. Wood's fidelity to his employer might indeed be
the cause of his exacting rigor. So Mr. Goodman remained si-
lent on the subject and it was dropped without any fourth
marks concerning it.
The next morning John came from the mansion with the sleigh
and drove Mr. Fox and Dolores to the factory  The d  g
establishment were not closed against the cold, but the busy life
within was the same, which Dolores had witnessed on th4 cca
sion of her fist visit. Only one feature was ew; Charles and


98                       DOLORES.
Henry occupying a workbench for themselves were now amongst
the laborers, both working away with a good will, though with,.
different results. On close examination one could see good pro-
gress on the article in the hand of Charles. while Henry's work;
showed the hands of the bungler. Old Mr. Fuchs was with the-
bsowthe Foand olores were approacing their bench and
boys, wm the look of vexation in the father's face and that of sullen-
ness in Henry's it was evident, that a lecture had just been ended.
When Mr. Fuchs however noticed the presence of his employer.
the      p              fa    Smilin  officious and with a
rapid dexterous grasp baring his head, he welcomed Mr. Fox and
expressed his satisfaction of seeing him well.
Mr. Fox took him aside.
"Old friend" he said "a word in confidence,"
"1How does the mill fare?"
Fuchs played his old game in casting uneasy glances in every
direction.
"Pare? Mr. Fox, why she fares well ex1ough. As far as I know,
she goes on as usual."
"The same number of hands?"
"The same number, Sir."
"The same amount of work finished?"
"To all appearances, yes Sir. Mr. Wood ought to be able, to
answer that question."
"But I want your statement. From the books I see, that you
have changed a number of hands."
"Mr. Wood's doings, Sir."
"Were those dismissed, unfit?"
"Not to my knowledge."
"Are the new ones better?"
Mr. Fuchs winced at the directness of these questions. Falter-
ing between the wish to serve his employer and the fear of secur-
ing the enmity of the superintendent, he answered :-
"Why no! That is, they may, but I think....'
"You also ship your goods to different customers, I perceive?"
"So it seems from the marking on the boxes."
"But what in the world can be the reason?"
Mr. Fuchs shrugged his shoulders.
"The new purchasers pay less and pay poorly."

DOLORES.
Mir. Fuchs repeated his gesture.
"Can you tell me, why Stellman &amp; Co. no longer buy from us?"
"Well, it is.. .think it is, because we sent them.-at least
I think so-a poor article."
Mr. Fuchs seemed to be astonished at his own audacity, for
he drew a deep breath after finishing his remark.
"A poor article? Why in the world did you send them a poor-
er article than formerly ?"
"Not my doing, Sir. Mr. Wood you know....."
"Ahyes, I forget. Well never mind Mr. Fuchs, I'll go to see
him. Only I wish you would keep your eyes open as much as
possible, and report to me, if you see anything wrong. Will you
do that, Mr. Fuchs?"
"Of course, I will, sir and with much pleasure" said the fore-
man lifting his cap again and leading Mr. Fox to the door, where
Dolores joined him, after having talked to Charles in'the mean
time. At the door Mr. Fox turned back.
"Charles my lad, can you come here a moment.?"
When the lad was at his side, he continued :
"Charlie, I learn from Dolores that she has an invitation from
your mother for christmas eve.  Can you secure one for me
too?"
"Of course I can, Mr. Fox; but it is unnecessary; you know
you are welcome without invitation."
"May, be, my son, but I want one nevertheless and I want you
to come and deliver it in person this evening at the parsonage.
Do you understand Charlie?"
"I think I do, Sir," Charles replied construing the other re-
marks as a hint, that he wanted to speak to him privately "I'll
"Very well, my boy, that will do."
A few minutes afterwards Mr. Fox stepped into the office. Mr.
Wood had received the news of his arrival but he feigned surprise.
"Why, cousin Edward, this is unexpected" he said joyfully
springing to hid feet and extending his hand to the new comer
with'evident tokens of ph aure in his 'face. "What brings you i
so rough a season into'the country ?"
I   thought'  suspicion'had dwelled in the mind of Mr. Fox,
ticorda reception was apt to chase it away in one so unsoph-


100                    DOLO1 ES.
isticated. He was even somewhat ashamed of it and hastened to
reply.-                                          That is
"Why Richard, I came to see this little girl of mine. Tht
my principal errand and as a secondary matter, I thought I might
consult with you about the factory and see whether we couldn't
possibly make the concern a little more remunerative. Your re-
mittences have dwindled down to such pitances, that I have been
forced to considerably overdraw my deposits in the bank."
If Mr. Fox had watched his foreman closely in making this
statement, he might have seen a flash of malignant joy shooting
from his eye; but it was not in the good natured character of that
gentleman to watch other people's features for the purpose of
reading their souls. So Mr. Wood found sufficient time in bring-
ing his countenance into that doleful cast, which fitted the dis-
agreeable revelations of the proprietor.
"Why, I am glad you came" he said with a voice, whose capti-
vating sweetness was still enhanced by a sympathetic touch.
"I have been ill at ease, all this while and felt the weight of res-
ponsibility as a crushing burden."
"Oh well, you mustn't take the thing so much to heart" said
Mr. Fox. Our embarrassment may be only temporary indeede I
hope it will be and that spring may restore us to our old prosper
ity."
"And so lo I" Wood eagerly struck in. "I have done my very
best to avert it and even proposed measures; that drew the odium
of the hands upon me. Still if you think, that under a different
management the business would revive, I am perfectly willing, to
retire from my situation."
Mr. Fox was startled at the thought of the bare possibility of
such a step and the cunning manager knew it, or he would never
have ventured such a proposition. He knew, that Mr, Fox loath-
ed the idea of taking such a burden as the management of the
factory upon himself and that he necessarily must dislike the
idea, of changing superintendents at the time of a crisis. More-
over the service of Mr. Wood had always been so faithful; lie
had guarded the interest of his employer with such sacrifice of
self, that even a more discriminating man thah.. Mr. Fox might
well have hesitated to feel 'suspicious of one, who had so well
stood the test of many years. So when the proprietor had once

DOLORES.                      101
more examined the books and found them kept with the old scru-
pulous neatness and exactness, he drowned all the questions he
had intended asking and after a consultation'of more than an
hour left the factory in no ways wiser than he-Thad entered' it.
During the day he was unusually still and *hen Charles arrived
in the evening, he had not yet recovered the healthy tone, which
generally characterized his manners. The youth formally. deli.-
vered his mother's invitation, waiting for further developments
at some suitable moment. - Mr. Fox however allowed several fa-
vorable, opportunities of speaking to him to pass by, without
benefitting by them and Charles thinking he might have forgot-
ten his purpose, resolved to aid his memory. Waiting untilehe
was alone with Mr. Fox and Dolores, whom he evidently did not
consider in the light of an obstacle, he said:
"Mr. Fox, when you begged me this morning to deliver my
mother's invitation in person, you meant more than you said; at
least I thought that you desired to speak to me in confidence.
Was' I correct in that opinion?"
Mr. Fox started from his pensive mood. He looked to the
bright eye of the youth with pleasure and then said :
"You were right, Charlie,.a new proof that you are a clever lad.
However I have learned something since, that makes my commu-
nication unnecessary, and I shall now forbear troubling you with
my troubles."
After these words, Dolores pushed her chair nearer to his and
laying her hand upon his knee looked earnestly into his gloomy
countenance,
"Papa Fox, there is something the matter with you" she said
"and I want to know it. It won't trouble me a bit and I am sure
Charles neither for that matter."
"No indeed, Sir, I'll be glad to do anything for your sake" the
youth earnestly asserted.
Mr. Fox was moved.
,'Why, Children, it isn't so very much" he said "and I may as
well tell you, if only to set your minds at ease about it."
He stopped a moment and the absent look of his eye showed
plainly, that his mind was wandering over the past. The- child-
ren did not interrupt him, but with respectful consideration fixed
their looks upon him, waiting for the moment when he would be

c


102                    DOLORES.
ready, to break his silence. At last he sighed deeply and turn-
ing to the children, said :
"Excuse me, children, if I keep you waiting; but what I have
to say to you, embodies thoughts of distrust to those, I have been
trusting many years, and it is but natural, that I should hesitate
to plant into your young hearts, the seeds of feelings which em-
bitters our mind and can not so easily be eradicated again. Still
you desire to learn my troubles and I accept your sacrifice; for it
is indeed pleasant to have confideuts though they be young and
unexperienced."
Again he stopped a minute. Then resuming he continued.
"There are several things, that trouble me and if I once reveal
them to you, I may as well make a clean breast of it. You know
my relations to Mrs. Fox and I think that hardly requires an ex-
planation."
His companions nodded and Mr. Fox continued.
"Lately the difficulty has extended to the children and that is
one thing that worries me considerably. Lucy is total under
the influence or her mother and if not removed from it, will soon
be nothing but a senseless doll, an idle worshipper of fashion. It
is hard to speak so of my own daughter; but it is oniy the sad
truth. To make matters worse, I see no remedy."
Charles seemed to think differently, to judge from the expres-
sion of his face.
"Why, Mr. Fox; it appears to me, as if you could easily stop
those bad proceedings. Lucy surely is a good girl and if you
pronounced a firm "veto" to Mrs. Fox fashionable affairs. . .-
He stopped..
"Charlie, you do not understand that, my lad. In forcing
measures, as you advise, I would make life one continual torture,
which I could not endure. Besides Lucy's development is an-
noying me less, than that of Richard, who shows all the symptoms
of a precocious depravity. He indulges in every fashionable vice
and spends more money, than I am able to pay, even if I were in-
clined to do so. He finds no difficulty in securing credit and thus
far I have not come to the extreme of withdrawing my assistance,
in paying his debts; but he must have other sources than my
purse, for the bills that come to me for settlement can not pos-

DOLORES.                       103
rsibly contain all the items of his expenditures He must receive
encouragement from without."
"His mother?" Charles suggested.
"Has not enough money, to defray her own expenses and con-
tinually troubles me for contributions. No, he must have a friend
interested in his ruin."
"Or yours" Charles suggested.
Mr. Fox started; with a troubled look he said:
"The same idea! You meet me halfway. Charlie, what do you
.mean?"
"Nothing definite. Your remark suggested the idea."
"But it has haunted me too, I do not know why; it caused my
remark to you this morning and now, when I mean to confide it
Ito you as a secret, I meet it on your lips."
"I will not pass them' tho' to reach any other ears, Sir."
"I know Charlie and therefore chose you as a confident in spite
of your youth. Your father, tho' my good and faithful friend, is
not cunning enough, to do me much good., You see I place great
confidence in you, Charlie."
"I appreciate your goodness."
"Goodness, Charlie? No indeed my lad; it is anything but
goodness, to draw your youthful mind into my troubles. Still I
desire it, you expect it and so I suppose it has to be."
Another short pause.
-"Has your mother never touched this matter to you Charlie?"
-"No, Sir, not to my recollections. She has her likes and dis-
ilikes; but beyond that...."
"Very well; so I shall have to give names after all.. The man,
whom I have always considered my fast friend and only lately
'been led to suspect, is....
"A person, whom I know without your declaration" Charlie in-
terrupted. "I must confess, that strange things have happened
in the factory since my admittance, but I thought they might
possibly'be explained in a natural manner and that it wasn't my
'business 'to interfere."
".But anew Charlie, if I entreat you earnestly; to make it your
:business: will you promise me, to be watchful and this state of
uncertainty, which destroys the little peace, of mind remaining
ane and Threatens to reduce me to beggary at the amne time."~


104                   DOLORES.

Charles started.
"Is it as bad as that Mr. Fox?"
"Fully as bad; but you haven't promised yet."
"Well, then, I promise ; though my promise conditions a work
of espionage, which I despise and wouldn't undertake for every-
body. But I always liked you Mr. Fox and like you doubly since
you acted so kindly to this little girl."
"Why, this is strange! So you befriended me on her account?'
It really seems as if my little foster-daughter were intented to in-
demnify me for all the misery resulting from the treachery of re-
lations."
He stroked Dolores curls and then continued :
"Mind Charlie, I want no guesses, no uncertainties. I quess
already and that makes me wretched. Only, when the plainest.
evidence establishes him guilt.... .then, and only then speak, the
word, that is to decide his fate and mine."
Charles promised and this ended the matter; for Mr. Fox de-
clared that he had full confidence in the youth and would there-
fore abstain from' any rules of conduct. This was of course-
agreeable to Charles, who from that moment bent all the energy
of Mrs mind upon the mission, that had been entrusted to him.
Mr. Wood was very gay that evening. The interview with Mr.
Fox had been so satisfactory and promising, that he thought, he
might allow himself and his accomplice George an unusual in-
dulgence. He had procured several bottles of wine and finished
them off with many toasts to their success and the ruin of their
employer .... 
If he had known, what terrible foe had been put on his track
that very night, he might have felt very sober in spite of his ex-
cessive drinking.
CHAPTER X.
ON THE TRACK.
Mrs. Fuchs'es Christmas party had been a great success and.
the box from the city its crowning feature. Everybody had been
considered by the kind honor, who however had left on the morn-

DOLORES.                        105
ing following, thus depriving himself of the pleasure of seeing the
faces, which his liberality had caused to brighten. In conse-
quence of his departure the two families had sobered down and
the young people-excepting Henry-resumed their habits of in.
dustry. Every thing assumed its old-features or at least appear
ed to do so; for in reality there were two secret currents running-
under the surface, that seemed so tranquil. MIr. Wood and his
accomplices carried on their nefarious plan, which was to result
in thefinancial and social ruin of Mr. Fox; but while they were
fooling themselves into a false security and by degrees grew
kolder in their operations, a vigilant eye began to watch every
motion of theirs, encouraged at first by grateful emotions for the
man, whose ruin was being plotted; but by and by also by dis-
coveries strange and startling.
Charles conducted himself with the greatest caution. Not be-
ing very fond of the occupants of the office nor indeed a favorite
of theirs, he took good care, not to excite their suspicion by too
rapid a change.in his demeanor towards them. He needed the
priviledge of a free admission to the office and the books and to
gain it, managed with a rare tact. Changing gradually from a
cold conduct to polite advances first to George and afterwards to
Mr. Wood; he soon exercised over them the charm innate to his
person. Benefitting by the indulgence of Mr. Fox concerning
his position in the factory, he examined the various departments
with an eye, keen enough to penetrate the slightest details. The
first thing that struck him as strange was the nature of the boxes,
containing the steel used for the manafactures of the establish-
ment. They were of two sorts, one very unlike the other, and
yet marked as coming from the same firm. Even the handwriting
was different, both sets evidently emanating from different in-
dividuals, who preserved too distinctly their peculiarities, to be
mistaken.
Another suspicious circumstance was the difference of the metal
packed in the different boxes, one being considerably superior to
the other, as Charles knew from a test he made for the special
purpose of ascertaining their quality. Yet there was no distinction
made in the manufactory as to the material, as Charles could
easily perceive on the better article premiscuously packed and
sold with the inferior.


DOLORES.

What could this signify ? Could it be barely possible that Mr.
Wood was buying the inferior stuff without the knowledge of Mr.
Fox? Charles resolved to ascertain this at the earliest moment
after the latter gentleman's return to the country. In the mean
time he worked himself into the good graces of the superintendent,
by doing little turns for him and showing such aptness in making
calculations, that Mr. Wood readily consented, when Charles
manifested a desire to devote a portion of his time to the study
of bookkeeping. The youth wrote a beautiful hand and executed
the tasks, the manager set him, with such rapidity and skill, that
Mr. Wood was at once surprised and pleased. Soon the student
understood enough about the-management of the various books,.
to examine their contents with a critical eye ; but he was no more
successful than Mr. Fox. Whatever might be the character of
other transactions of the superintendent, his books were evident-
ly unexceptional. Nor did Charles wonder. It is so easy for a
practiced eye to discover inaccuracies in books containing ac-
counts; the figures show such merciless conclusions that a man
.so cunning as Mr. Wood, would surely be very cautious not to be
caught at such puerile blunders. If anything was wrong, it had
to be looked for in another province and Charles resolvod to do
so. He returned to his work bench and with reboubled energy
renewed his observations on all the different branches of the est-
ablishment.
In this way the winter wore away, faster than Charles could
recollect itto have gone over before. The reason was evident,
besides the exciting watch on affairs in the establishment, he had
his studies to attend to and above all his new friendship to en-
gage him and absorb his thoughts. To please Dolores, he shun-
ned no labor nor fatigue, and many a tiresome march through
slush or snow did he make, for the purpose of either catching
wild animals alive, .to give to her as pets, or killing others for the
sake of their fur, of which he caused articles of dress to be
manufactured for his friend. He spent nearly half his leisure
hours at the parsonage and his mother would have become out-
right jealous, if she had not herself loved the little girl with a
mother's love and managed to secure a good portion of her free
time for herself. Indeed Dolores spent so many hours at the
house of Mrs. Fuchs, that it was hard to say, which was her real

106

OLURE.                       107
home, the parsonage havin merely the advantage of the study
hours and those of night. Even the latter Dolores often spent at
the cottage of Charles' pa ents and the desire of enjoying the
girls company drew the two families much more together and
made them much more intimate, than they had formerly been.
Miss Sarah all at once discovered new genial features in Mrs,
Fuchs and the latter declared she daily saw new points in the
spinster that deserved love and admiration. Dolores lived and
breathed and hgl her being in love and tenderness and her nature
developed in consequence with the rapidity and luxuriance of the
tropics. Of the rank poison however peculiar to that zone, she
was entirely free; and all the praise and care and affection be-
stowed upon her, merely had the tendency of coloring more deep-
ly the amiable traits of character.
Besides the pleasure her studies gave her she delighted in noth-
ing so much. as to brave the hardships of season and in Charles
company roam over the snowcovered fields and forests of the
neighborhood. She often accompanied him on his hunting ex-
cursions and though of a very tender disposition and sensitive
character could admire his skill as a marksman and look with
childish delight on the conquered game, as it rapidly increased
finally swelling to a burdensome load. She was totally free of
that fashionable weakness, which cannot see a fly killed, though
it does not hesitate to worry a servant a friend or relative to
death. Indeed there was nothing sickly in the girl's nature her
body being as healthy as her mind, receiving a tone and vigor
by the judicious course of exercise to which she subjected herself
that could not be surpassed.
Dolores had been present at the interview between Mr. Fox and
Charles and she now was the only confident, to whom he com-
nunicated the progress of his operations. She was always kept
"aufait" but still she was considerable startled, when late one
evening he appeared at the parsonage, gun in hand and with a
countenance all in a glow and excitement. Mr. Goodman was in
his study and Miss Sarah in the dinning-room, setting the table
for to-morrow's breakfast; so Charles found Dolores alone and
could at once unload his heart of the burden, with which it was
evidently oppressed.


108                    DOLORES.
"Why Charlie so late at night! I did not expect you any more.
Where do you come from? What is the matter?"-
Charles set down beside her, with his gun between his knees.
-'Dolores" he said with shining eyes "I have got them now."
"Got whom, Charlie?"
"Why the rascals, of course, on whose track I have been all
this while."
"Is it possible? You did discover something then, and papa
was right?"
"He was Dolores; but listen and I'll tell you all about it. You
know, that I tracked the bear the other day and have been trying
ever since to get the cubs for you?"
"No, dear Charlie, I did not know that; for if I had, I should
have begged you, not to expose yourself so much for my sake."
"Expose myself! why, child. don't you think, I am a match for
any bear? I have made more than one rue his audacity to make
a stand against me. But that is not the point now, Dol; I simp-
ly meant to explain to you, how I came to inake the great disco-
very I 'spoke of., Last night I got everything ready for a hunt
and before daybreak this morning I started on my way. I took
the road to the bay ; because there the beat- had made her appear-
ance. It had snowed a little during the night and when I reach-
ed the shore, I saw the fresh tracks of horses and a sled."
He stopped and looking at her with a expectant glance seemed
to wait for a sign of surprise Yet it did not come.
"Well Charlie, what else? That surely isn't the great discovery
you spoke of'?,'
Charles laughed.
"Dol, you little goosy, it wasn't the discovery, but it led to it.
What do you suppose I thought, when I saw the track?"
"You wondered, who had made it."
"No I didn't, for I knew that at once from a spoke, which had
been left behind. It was painted red and black and belongs to
the large sled of the factory."
"Ah!" Dolores exclaimed. A light seemed to dawn to her.
"So I didn't wonder, who had made the track, but rather, why
they had made it; moreover, why they had made it during the
night. You know there is some little ice along the shore and the
track went to the very water's edge. In following it I saw in the

DOLORES.                        109
snow the impression of a box, the shape of which struck me as
familiar. I thought a moment and then was sure, that it had
been made by one of the -boxes, in which we receive the metal at
the factory."
"Ah !"
"You begin to see now, Dol don't you? Well a blind man
might, for that matter" Charles rejoined jokingly. "Thinks I to
myself: Charlie, what can this signify? A box from the factory
and well filled too,-for the impression was deep and sharp-
fetched from the seashore at the dead of the night! I was puz-
zled, but only for a moment; for all at once a flash ran through
my mind, lighting up my memory with a wonderful brightness. I
had seen such boxes before, besides those at the factory: I had
seen then on the boat in the cave !"
These words were spoken with an impressive voice and to in-
crease the effect, Charles had in saying them seized the arm of
this companion. This had the desired effect. Greatly excited,
she sprang to her feet, and clasping her hands together, cried in
a hurried manner:
"Oh the cave, the dreadful cave ! I shake even now, when I
think of it. Charlie, are you not mistaken ?"
"Not a bit of it and I'll fathom the whole thing. Didn't I tell
you at the time that I thought those men were smugglers?"
"Yes, you did and so you think ...."
"That they are smuggling part of the steel, from which we
manufacture our cutlery."
"But why should they do it?"
~Because they can import steel much cheaper than buy it here,
provided they avoid the duty. I always wondered at the dif-
ference in the boxes and the metal- now I understand it all."
"And do you think, that, that my dear papa knows about it?"
"No, I do not. Firstly Mr. Fox is too good a citizen, to desire
to cheat the government of its dues and secondly, if he were a
party to the fraud, he would surely not have. set a. spy upon his
own actions,"
"But who then, should have to ran so great a risk?"
"Who else, but Mr. Wood? Of course, he isn't alone, for he
needs accomplices in such a transaction. To make sure, I went
to the stable and asked the driver divers questions, taking good


11o                     DOLORES.
care to make them perfectly innocent. In spite of my careless
mien, the fellow got confused, contradicting himself several times,
and finally getting vexed and rude. If a doubt had existed in my
mind before, this man's conduct would at once have destroyed it."
',I wonder, Mr. Wood should have acted so carelessly as to let
the track in the snow betray his actions."
"I do not Dolores. I saw, there was a consignment of metal
from the depot too and he most likely thought, that he could
conceal his smuggled boxes best by mixing them with the others.
Besides. it snowed so heavily last evening, that it had the ap-
pearance of continuing all night, in which case, the tracks would
have beeen obliterated."
"That is true, Charlie. The weather has favored us greatly;
but what do you intend doing next? Will you communicate with
papa at once?"
Charles shook his head.
"Mr. Fox wants positive proof and to give that, we must catch
the evildoers in the act. This we cannot do."
Why not Charlie? Will they not sooner or later repeat their
action?"
"They will undoubtedly ; but to prove smuggling we must show
the connection with a foreign vessel or at least a vessel from a
foreign port. Can we do this, Dol?"
Dolores started.
"Our oath !" she said with a tone of awe.
"There lies the difficulty" Charles resumed. "We can hardly
convince Mr. Fox, without violating our plighted oath, and yet
we cannot perjure ourselves."
"Of course not" Dolores earnestly assented.
'Therefore, it will be better, if we say nothing of our discoveries
at present; but continue to watch and do our best, to counteract
any pernicious influence of the superintendent. I am sure now,
he is cheating Mr. Fox out of his profits, for a man, who goes so
far, will not hesitate, to dive to the bottom of iniquity."
On this they finally resolved and after some further delibera'
tion on the subject Charles withdrew.
A start was made; a point gained and our young friend had no
doubt, that he would now be able not only to discover Mr. Wood's
otherNmachinationis, but also to foil his evil intentions and secure

DOLORES.                       111
Mr. Fox from their pernicious consequences. If that fatal oath
had not been, his task, would have been much more simple, but
even as it was, he felt confident of final success.
Before his discovery, the examination of the books had been
fruitless,--now they promised rich results. Resuming hi "vst
atuthe offie Charlesevthisfto        eiRumn his -visits
Sales devoted himself to their perusal with renew-
e zea and soon learned, how Mr. Wood had been able to
1 h.oo                     en abe tocon-
ceal his operations so long and successfully. According to the
books Mr. Wood used nothing but American steel, charging the
fatheraye wih the whole hadmaskedand crediting certain firms with
fat  r   ihthe  w oe  a o n   n   rdtn     eti   im same.  If Mr. Fox  had 'asked for the receipts of those parties,
the thing might have been very different;pts ohse  goodes
naturehad always prevented such thorough measures,thesuper
intendent found no difficulty in making the whole thing very
plausible in the books, which moreover captivated the exam
by their extreme neatness.
Charles readily understood the motive of Mr. Woods smugg-
ling operations; but why was the inferior metal thus smugg-
worked -hus acquired
worked p promiscuously with better material? This consider-
ably puzzled our young friend, who was enoughofabsns
man, to see, that by classing the goods according to their value,
the superintendent. could have secured a better market and also
more remunerative prices. His management could    a
tendency of creating discontent amongst the purchasers and final-
ly drive them to another market. What conld it mean? Wa
barely possible, that Mr. Wood had not only the desire of enrich-
ing himself, but also the more damnable one   of     em-
ployer, after he had reached his own purpose? It must be so, for
Charles could conceive no other motive, and holding fast this
idea, until something better would present itself, lie concluded to.
act upon it.
By this time, spring had begun to send its, for-
shape oohoesfn s                            runners im the
ne of showers and storms and glimpsesbof sunshine and the
unerring cry. of birds of migration high above in the air. The
'weather began to become more and more settled but even before
the country was at all inviting, the family at the mansion to every-
body's surprise, made its appearance. Mrs. Fox was the instiga-
tor of this unexpected movement, which had been hertiga-
dorsed by her husband, though he could not help wndeartily en-


112

DOLORES.

self at the change of his wife's notions. Formerly she had derid-
ed the pleasures of the country and only consented to a residence
in it, because her fashionable friends all indulged in it, and
because the dullness of the city during the summer months was
even more intolerable, than that of the country- She had always
come as late and gone as early, as possible; but now it seemed
as if the exception of the fall was to become the rule for the
future. She declared herself to be delighted with the beauties of
nature and Mr. Fox was glad enough to perceive the change ; for
it was not the only change visible in his wife. Her conduct to
Dolores who of course returned to the mansion on the arrival of
the family, was all Mr. Fox could desire; for though she would
not condescend to bestow any marks of affection or regard upon
the girl, she abstained on the other hand from those manifesta-
tions of disgust or enmity, which had made Dolores so miserable.
As we have said, Mr. Fox was pleased with the change in his
wife's conduct, without caring to know the source. If he had
known it: would he have been as indifferent? Hardly, for the
faithless woman had wronged her husbaad in a point, where men
are very sensitive and ready to avenge their sullied honor even
if not wounded in their heart. Easy and indluging, as Mr. Fox
was, it is more than likely, that the guilt of his wife would have
roused the lion in his nature and brought up a tempest fearfulin
proportion to its rareness-
And she, who has forgotten the vow of love and fidelity, which
once she plighted to the man of her choice-how does she feel?
How does she manage, to sooth and quiet the monitor, who per-
sists in telling her, that she is emptying the cup of sinful lust-
how does she feel ? She does not care to sift her feelings; for on
the surface she finds a happiness, that suffices her. "'If anything
redeems her lost condition and mitigates the severity of our
judgement, it is the fact, that she really loves the man, who has
accomplished her ruin. He has devoted a life to her, he has with
tenacious perseverance pursued a plan, the only plan of his exist-
ence, and on it has wasted all his strength and'energy and feel-
ing. Sueh a love is tempting. What does it matter, if it is ac-
complished with a fierce hatred to her husband and the burning
wish to accomplish his ruin ? What is that husband to her? Her
vivacity, her restlessness, her deep emotions and passionate feel-

DOLORES.

113

ings are foreign to the ease and nonchalance of his character.
He might have answered for a slave; but slave he would not be
and else he 'could not. So when the tempter stepped up to her
and with a sweet and insinuating voine spoke fiery words, which
struck a kindred string and pleaded the cause of his mad passion
with a fervor that was congenial to her ardent nature, she strug-
gled but a moment, as we have seen and readily yielded to the
glittering enticement.
She had sinned and by adhering to her lover, continued to sin:
but, i spite of it, her love, however wrong, threw those softening
influences around her, which that passion always excercises over
woman. She seemed to grow younger and more beautiful, though
that beauty had even before been remarkable, as we have seen.
The servants were like Dolores benefitted by their mistress'
change. She was less, fretful, and more easily pleased. Lucy
with her quiet ways and, peaceful mind was least affected by the
change; but Richard instead of being benefitted, was actually in
jured by his mother's increased indulgence. Aping the dandies
of the city, which tolerated and flattered him for the sake of his
money, he fell into all kinds of absurd extravagances, which
secured to him the ridicule of the neighborhood and the dislike
of the household, his mother forming the only exception.
Towards Mr. Fox his wife showed a certain reserve, approach-
ing shyness; but this diffidence so charming in a woman when
the result of bashful coyness and timid modesty and the first
dawning consciousness of conjugal love, had no attraction to the
husband, when it was the result of the admonitions of a guilty
conscience. Mr. Fox was glad enough to be left alone and nothing
indeed was further from his mind, than the desire to resume
more intimate relations to a wife, whom he had oice loved and
cherished, but who, by her way-wardness and her caprices had
long ago succeeded in stiffing the emotions, which had filled, his
heart.

8

"


114                 DOLORES.

CHAPTER XI.
TWO YEARS LATER.
Time flies fast; but the narrator can accelerate its motion. He
need but raise his wand and months fly faster than seconds; sum-
mer changes to winter and winter back to summer. He lets the
infant be born and by a wink mature to maidenhood or adoles-
cence; he plants the acorn and by his magic power causes the
mighty tree, to shoot up in a moment and spread its branches
amongst the clouds, to protect the warbling birds or the weary
wanderer in its shadow.
We call at the factory two years after the first visit of Dolores.
We enter the office and see Mr. Wood in a perfect tempest of rage.
He strides up and down with a vehemence, that knows no bounds
and it is doubtful whether his words are uttered in soliloquy or
addressed to George the only occupant of the room.Georgehich
shrugs his shoulders repeatedly; but returns no answer, whic
silence creates the doubt alluded to. But enough of reflections;
drawing up the curtain for the second act, we retreat behind the
scenes and let the persons of the drama speak for themselves.
"Confound them all !" Mr. Wood exclaimed, showing a far
greater sense of propriety in this amaible utterance, than in some
of his previous expressions "confound them all, I-say! This is
more than I can bear, either they or I! I must at once press
matters to a decision."
'"But by too great a haste you may spoil, what hasn't been
spoiled yet" George now interposed.
"Too great a haste! yes indeed! you have been even selling
tardiness all the time and tardiness has spoiled everything."
"But what is lost, Wood? I really think, that you see things
in too gloomy a light."-h
"What is lost?" the irritated man repeated with that snappish
tenac'ty so peculiar to persons in his mood "ask me rather, what
is no t  ? Have we made any headway these 18 months?
"Not much, to be sure, but remaining stationary and to lose
ground are two different things."
"I think differently, There is nothing stationary in this world
and not to progress is to slide back. Have we not been obliged
to give up our new customers and fall back upon the old ones?"

DOLORES.
"Why yes; but ..."
"Have we not in that way lost all the gain accruing from oar
clever operations?"
"Of course; but then. .."
Have we not been obliged, to smuggle a better quality of steel,
in order to be at all able to continue that fete " qualisee,
to the success of our plans?"
"That is all very true; but we smuggle still in undisturbed
security and the profit we derive from it, is not     "
Wood stopped short, he shook his e   i  an angry    an
said:
"George you are like all the others,l g     o   e
over the parts. You may be a good private, but you will never
be ageneal.Do you think, I care foriae u  o  ee
you think I accumlthk l  care for  or a few paltry pennies? Do
ate lucre, for the sake of lucre? I thought
you knew me better, and surely you ought; for I revealed myin.
most thoughts to you so often. If I  ga;n r ievee   nc
for which I worked and planned through maiary yeance
don't care that much for all the treasures in the world,"
Mr. Wood did not refer to that other and even stronger
of his; indqed he had never made G ga eventofg passion
"B George a confident of it..
"But your chance for that is as good as ever, Richard  I
nothing to spoil the game."
"I do. Have you forgotten Charlie's visit to the cave?"
"No, but he has faithfully kept his oath of secrecy.
He need not keep it any longer; for Captain Butler  ou r
member bound him only for two ears thinking
be ngre likely to remain silent during that period than a ore
lengthy and indefinite one. One more week and the n  a
will be free to act.  "
"But do you think, he will venture there again?"
"He venture? Why George, you sometimes ask childish ques-
tions. You surely know Charles Fuchs long
vinced, that he is not the person to be easily scared."
"Still he knows nothing of our contraband trade. He may pad
a dozen visits at the cave and never meet our friends."
"He may and may not. I -surely cannot run such risks. Be-
sides I am not so sure about his ignorance concerning the secrete
of the cave,"g                     cecnennthscrs


116                    DOLORES.
' h kow? His short visit can certainly not have
given him a ue. Moreover, Charles has changed wonderfully
lately; he has formed a strong liking for you and I think we
might without much risk make him a party to our plans."
"Fo hevens skeno!" the other shouted with a frightened
FTor heaven's sake, no -.
oouutenaflce.
.ou"Whanchat is the matter, Richard?'' George inquired with
rmuch wonderent in his voice. "I do think, you are getting
nervous."
"I know, I am. This continual suspense and excitement is tel-
.ing on me."
"But whatkmakes you so afraid of aCharlie?"
'I .hardly know myself. I like the boy and yet I fear him; at
least I wouldn't for the world make him a party to our plot."
l"ea ll ona  o like" George replied with a touch of coldness
a"daesru doaf hs shoulder.
a     h       huI cannot stand this any longer" Wood continued without
di   the other's remark. "I'll bring matters to a'crisis and
that too within a week. Like the gambler, that has been losing
long, and with a desperate energy stakes his whole upon one card
to win or perish, I shall play: "va banque."
"That is king Richard again" he cried "the fearless leader, who
leads through peril to success- Goon, my friend, George pt
his fortune on your card."
.But Wood had already cooled down agaili.
..cwont get excited, boy" he said, lifting his hand against his
Scaling manner. "This is no child's play and wants
a. calm deliberation. Sit down G'eorge and let us talk the matter
over."
The other obeyed his injunction and sitting down at the side
of Mr. Wood,' who had himself taken a chair looked expectantly
inteofhis face.
Has utler not been heard of yet ?" Wood inquired.
"Not to my knowledge. Old Peter has thus far failed-to report
any. signals."
e ought to be here and surely will, if it is at all in his power.
le knows as well as we, that the secret of the cave will cease to
.~ a secret inwess tan wea week."

DOLORES.                      117
"I think with you,.that he will soon be here."
"Well, go to see Peter this evening and warn him into double
vigilance. Let him report the arrival of the vessel without -a
moment's delay."
"I will, Sir."
"Very well. Now listen carefully. Captain Butler is not aware
of my intentions. He thinks that Mr. Fox has knowledge of our
clandestine connections. Thus far neither party has received
any writings from the other concerning-.these transactions;' but
this time I shall demand a receipt from Butler's hand, for the
payment of the cargo of steel, he will deliver."
"But will he give it?"
"I think so. I shall pretend, that my employer suspects fraud
and that I want him to see the receipt for the whole sum."
"But what good will such receipt do you?"
"Why, George, don't you think, it will make the commander
of the revenue cutter start, when he la3 s his eyes on it?"
"But the cutter lies at P., a goodway off."
"P. is not out of the world and a quick messenger can take it
there in 12 hours. That part of the enterprise I thought of puii-
ting into your hands."
"Into mine?" the other asked with a look of surprise. "1
hardly know, whether I should fancy the idea of being so far
from the scene of action."
Wood looked at him with a keen searching lance.--
"Why don'tyou say at once, that you don't trust me and that
you expect to be cheated out of your portion of the earnings'7"
"It isn't that" George replied slightly embarrassed "but yon
would not be here on my return and where should I find youth"
t isn't necessary that you should find me George" Wdod
coldly responded. "Dont misunderstand me; you shall faith
fully receive the liberal reward, your assistance merits and that
too before you start; but as to furthe.j fellowship, it is neither
desirable nor wise. I like you well enough, George, but I cannot
say that I like the idea of having a living, speaking monitor
about me, to remind me of a transaction, which it is our interest
to bury in oblivion. If you reflect a little. my lad, you must con-
fess, that separation is our best policy."              -
George now returned the other's glance. Hes suspected, that


DOLORES.
there was another reason in the heart of his accomplice for wish-
ing a separation and this want of sincerity, considerably annoyed
him. A certain dark thought again arose in the depth of his
soul and while he deliberated with the superintendent on the ruin
of his principal, he calculated, whether by the betrayal of the
former he could not induce the latter to double his gains. To
obtain this end, however he must of course acquiesce in the others
arrangements without further contradiction: so smoothing his
countenance into an approving smile he said :
"May be you are right, Richard; indeed now I think of it, you
are right, though at first I didn't fancy the idea, to be thrown
away like a squeezed lemon."
Wood laughed.
"What an absurd smile! If you had compared yourself into a
swollen sponge, you would have been more correct."
"But what other measures do you propose Richard?"
"That is soon told. I am going to give Butler a forged check on
the Phoenix Bank of P. and divide with you the profit of the
"coup." It isn't more than fair, that the Captain should at last
pay the penalty for the violation of our laws: don't yon think
so?"
.The two worthies laughed at this joke. It is so easy to laugh
at the expense of others.
"He cannot suspect the trick," Wood continued "and to make
the joke more capital, he can have no recourse on account of
forgery."
"Hardly!" 'George struck in "I wager, that he'll keep very
ipm about it,"
"Mum? no George, he'll swear at us,until his bile is all exhaus-
ted and the devil tired of his invocations."
' Xo doubt of that, but go on. I am decidedly curious, to see
ypur fine tactics developed."
, am nearly done. I expect considerable remittances shortly
f goods delivered and these also will be divided and go a good
pice towards swelling our funds."
."And the money you hold for Mrs. Fox?"
."will be faithfully surrendered to her hands. It wouldn't do
George, to cheat a faithful ally out of her dues. Honesty amongst
thieves you know."

DOLORES.                       119
"Why yes, of course" the young man replied, being unable to
suppress a slight blush, that persisted in mantling his cheeks.
He was determined, to set that proverb at naught and at the
same time entertained serious doubts regarding the truthfulness
of the other's statements. But then he didn't care, if Wood ap-
propriated that money, as he was at the very moment revolving
plans in his mind, whose results would more than compensate
him for any loss, he might experience at the hands of his-accom-
plice. He aimed at nothing less than the destruction of his com-
rade and that too with an indifference truly diabolical. Of the
two rogues he evidently was the blackest; for while the super-
intendent aimed at the gratification of the powerful passions of
love and hatred, his younger accomplice merely worked for the
satisfaction of the meanest of all earthly vices-miserly greedi-
ness and heartless avarice.
"And we must really part?" he added with a hypocritical sad-
ness. "I shall feel lost, for hitherto I have faithfully looked to
you for guidance."
"I presume you will find better guides and safer ones" Wood
said with ironical sincerity. "Comfort yourself oin that score.
And now be off George and notify Peter; so that wee will at once
be warned of Butler's arrival."
CHAPTER XII.
AN ARRIVAL.
On the afternoon of the same day a stranger walked the road
leading to the village. He had a foreign air and a foreign look-
ing carpet-bag and we need therefore not wonder, that he stopped
every few minutes to subject the different houses to a scrutiniz-
ing glance. The appearance of the stranger was not very prepos-
sessing.  His suit was rather shabby, but this circumstance;
which we are apt to overlook when connected with a pleasant
countenance and a genial look, was in his instance aggravated by
a very uninviting face. Not that the features had been ugly-
no, their expression rather than their form repelled those, who, in


120                    DOLORES-
passing the man, looked at him with natural curiosity. One or
two overcoming their dislike and judging him to be a stranger
from the indecision of his movements, stopped and kindly asked
him, what he wanted and whether he was trying to find somebody.
To this they got no satisfactory reply however. The stranger,
after a few words of answer, muttered so indistinctly, as to make
it uncertain whether they were english or not, rudely turned from
the would-be-guide and resuming his indecisive motions, con-
tinued his walk towards the village.
Now, when he passed Mr. Fuchs' cottage, it happened, that the
mistress of the house occupied her wonted seat on the porch of
the building. She happened to call with a loud voice to one of
her sons, who was evidently near, though not in sight and her
words, spoken in german at once attracted the attention of the
stranger. His face lost a portion of that eager spirit peculiar to
horses, when after a long fatiguing trip, they approach the crib
and smell the oats. Approaching the gate that led into the garden,
he called the attention of the woman to his person by saying in a
voice, which was sharp and snappish:'
"Sie sind deutsch, Madame, nicht wahr?"
Mrs. Fuchs looked at him attentively.
"Jawohl, mein Herr, warum?"
"Warum ?" the stranger said snappishly, continuing of course
in German, which for the benefit of the reader, I shall however
translate into good English "why? That is self evident, I am a
german, seek a german, and wish to find him, for I am tired,
hungry and thirsty."
Mrs. Fuchs looked at him with a mien, showing plainly, that
she did by no means appreciate the fellow's plainness and short-
ness. Still there is something gratifying in meeting a -country-
man even tho' he be a boor and she replied more kindly than his
manners warranted:. 
"Ursache genug ! Reason enough, to be sure. It is but Chris-
tian duty to assist in ending so much distress. Will you not
come in and eat and drink and rest and then continue your search,
in which I shall of course assist you, if I am able"
The lady's kindness still more reduced the stranger's sourness.
He signified his readiness to accept the invitation and passing
through the gate, assumed a comfortable position on the porch

DOAT FLORQ

-AJJ 5  c.                    121
with a readiness and n ichalance, that showed at once the great
care, this individual took of No One; i. e.,himself.
"So Madam" he said, depositing his long and slender carpet-
bag. "I am seated, Gott sei Dank and if you will procure some
eatables, I shall not fail to do them justice. I have had nothing
since this morning and to tell the truth, my breakfast was merely
the shadow of a one."
Good-natured Mrs. Fuchs forgot over the fellow's hunger the
cynic way, in which he informed her; or perhaps she excused
him on account of the circumstances in which she found him.
She probably knew, that the rough contact of the world is not ex-
actly calculated to make us either smooth of mouth or tender of
touch and that like the butterfly we lose the delicate bloom on
our wings when an uncouth hand intercepts our merry flight
amongst flowers and their perfumes.
"Wait a moment" she said and disappearing in the house soon
returned with some of the substantial blessings of life. The
bread and butter and cheese were accompanied by a glass or two
of wine, though not of that prime article, which Mr. Fox .had
tasted on the visit we witnessed. No indeed! Mrs. Fuchs knew
better. She believed in the adage, which forbids us, .to throw
pearls unto certain animals and understood the great art, to stop
charity within the proper limits,
The stranger however vas a judge. He ate and drank and
smacked his lips.
"Nicht uebel! not so bad; though I have drunk better growth
on the banks of father Rhine."
"So you hail from the Rhine?" Mrs. Fuchs inquired with in-
creased interest--her own cradle h it been rocked to the airs in
vogue in that favored country.
"Yes,. I do," he said sharply and a fool's errand it was, that
took me away frow there."
"Would you deem it rude, if I asked you its nature?"
"No it wouldn't. Woman are curious, that is an old truth and
can't surprise a man of my experience."
"Well Sir?" she suggested overlooking his freedom.
"Well Madam, I simply went to America in quest of fortune."
Why, I suppose everybody does that, more or less."
"Everybody is more or less of a fool. I haven't found my


122                      DOLORES.
fortune yet, tho' I have been six months in this abominable coun-
try; yes what's worse,,I haven't found my brother."
"Your brother? So you have relations in America."
"Yes Madam, they are so fortunate."
"And you expect to find your brother here? You will hardly
succeed, for we are the only german family in the place."
"lol's der Kukuk! the deuce take it, This was my last trump
and if it misses, I may as well give up the game. Isn't this Fox-
ville?"
"That is the name of the place."
"And there is nobody by the name of Fuchs living here ?"
"Fuchs? Why, who said there wasn't? You said you wanted
to find...."
"My worthy brother Conrad Fuchs, -the senior of the family.
If you know anything about that person and will communicate
your knowledge to me, you will oblige Jacob Fuchs his younger
brother."
Mrs. Fuchs was astonished. She was more, than that, she was
overpowered. The ties of relationship are closer in Germany
than in any other country and even the cousin in the 10th degree
continues to be counted amongst the kindred. But this was her
husband's own brother! at least he said -so and in the simplicity
of her heart she never thought of doubting his statement. She
clasped her hands in astonishment and taking the hand of the
stranger into hers, she embraced and kissed him, totally forget-
ting his rough and uncouth ways and by divers exclamations en-
deavoring to assemble the rest of the familiy.
"Why is it possible ! she cried, my husband's own brother! his
only brother, Jacob-if I have been rightly informed-my, good
dear brother-in-law! Oh! how Conrad will rejoice! Of this he
never dreamed, to be sure. Husband Conrad! Charles ! Henry!
why dont you come? Your uncle Jacob is here! Your uncle
Jacob in his own selfsame person !"
Now in her zeal thegood dame forgot, that her husband and
the boys were at the factory at that moment, or at least ought to
have been there, tho' master Henry wasn't, for, obedient to his
mother's call, he soon afterwards emerged from the house. This
didn't at all strike her as odd, on the contrary, she wondered at
the absence of the others, inquiring for the reason. Only when

DOLORES-                       123
Henry replied, that they were probably at the factory she remem-
bered the connecting circumstances, hinting to the lad, that it
wouldn't at all be amiss for him, to be there also. But this was
not the day to scold and telling Henry, that he saw his uncle be-
fore him and vide verra she begged her honored gupst, to excuse
her a few moments, in order to prepare for the reception of so
worthy a person. Jacob Fuchs did excuse her, enjoying the bread
butter and cheese like one famished, setting down the inferior
quality of the wine on account of the ignorance of his claims.
While eating and drinking, he eyed and addressed ,his young
nephew, who in his turn showed by his suspicious scornful
glances, that he was far from sharing his mother's enthusiasm.
But Jacob wasn't easily disconcerted.
"Heinrich, my lad," he said coolly, after finishing his first bot-
tle "you would greatly, oblige me, by getting this exchanged.
Just tell your mother, that I.prefer Deidesheini Traminer to all
other kinds and if she should happen, to keep, that sort...."
Henry obeyed with a bad grace; but returning carried a flask
bearing the etiquette mentioned. Uncle Jacob was pleased, he
was considerably softened and with every new glass seemed to
imbibe the very essence of the milk of human kindness.
"Why, Henry, my boy" he said, "this meeting is as pleasant,
as it is unexpected. After wandering six months through their
hospitable wilderness of these United States, I meet at last the
brother, whom I intended to surprise and-to make rich and in-
dependant."
Henry began to listen. Richard independant? This shably
uncle, that was so hungry and thirsty like a beggar,-to make hi
father rich and independant? Yes indeed, lie-Henry--would
first see it and then believe it; but not sooner. His uncle's remark
therefore sharpened the look of scorn around his mouth. The
stranger saw it:
"That sounds funny, Henry, doesn't it?" he inquired "never-
mind the fun, my boy; it will by and by become dead earnest, I
assure you. You seem to be be tolerably well fixed here."
Henry stated, that they were fixed well enough for everyday
aspirations.
"A fine house?"
"Oh, yes !"


DOLORES.                   125

"And much land?"
"Some 5 acres around the building."
"And other sources of revenue?"
Henry felt, as if prudence dictated discretion towards a com-
parative stranger. But this was his incle, and that uncle had
boasted of making his'relatives rich. Indeed Henry felt much
disposed to exaggerate his father's means to impress this new
uncle of such shably looks and high pretentious. So he asserted
that his father had ever so much stock in banks and other papers
from which he derived a splendid revenue.
The stranger listened attentively. These qualifications of a
brother seemed very acceptable, but Henry thought his display
made hardly the effect, which he had expected.
"Very well, Henry" the newcomer said, "very well indeed; but
what has been the result of it? What is your father doing?"
"Working in Mr. Fox' Factory, as foreman though."
At the word "Fox" the stranger started, but collecting himself
he said:
"Foreman indeed. And your brother-didn't you say, you
had another brother?"-
"I did Sir. He working in the factory as volunteer, to learn
the trade."
" Volunteer! Just a little gilding, to smooth the rough name.
I think, he will soon volunteer at pleasanter work. And you my
boy?"
Henry took good care, not to tell him, that he too would have
been at the factory, if his indomitable pench ant to idleness had
not induced him to make a blue monday, which lpractise with him
often extended over the whole week. Henry had not yet resolved
.upon an answer when his uncle saved bim the trouble, by saying:
"Never mind, lenry, what you are doing. I shall give you a
chance of doing better. I am not joking, lad ; but in sober
earnest you seem to be a clever sensible boy and I have no doubt,
we shall get along swimmingly together. Reach me- your hand:
what do you think? Are you willing to form a treaty of offense
and defense with the uncle, that can soon make you "steinreich"
i. e. possessing more gold, than you have now stones on your
premises?"
Henry was clever, but he was also credulous like most persons,

who dislike labor and look for unexpected turnups and sudden
chances to take the place of industry and perseverance. His
uncle might possibly be more than an idle boaster and in such a
case, would it not be very profitable, to worm himself into his good
graces, before the rest of the family had a change? If such a con-
duct should not result in great profit, it could hardly do much
harm and the youth instantly resolved, to assume a different
mien towards this Croesis in a beggar's garb. So he laid his hand
into his uncle's extended palm with a good enough grace and sig-
nified his readiness, to tie with him the knot of firm friendship
and mutual good will. Indeed this union had nothing strange
about .it; if the younger partner was as yet lacking the callous
skin, the brazen face and the ready wit of the vagrant, by means
of which he eeks out a living, which promised these qualities in
rich profusion and a family resemblance between the pair was un-
mistakable. They had no further chance, to advance their inti-
macy just then, for Mrs. Fuchs appearing in the door, begged her
guest to enter and retire to the room, she had hastily prepared for
him. He would find a bath prepared she said and plenty of Con-
rad's clothes in the closet, in case he wanted to replenish his ward-
robe. She hoped he would enjoy the bath and feel refreshed by
it. Supper would be ready in a couple of hours and the rest of
the family home by that time, tho' she wouldn't wait that long,
but send Henry to the factory without delay, in order to take to
her husband and Charles the glad tidings.
Uncle Jacob submitted to her directions with the grace of a
man, that has learned to weather the storms of the world. Tak-
ing his carpet-bag he suffered himself to be shown into his room,
while Henry betook himself to the. factory, to inform his father
and brother. He did not overhasten himself however, but walk-
ing slowly pondered on this unexpected event, on his uncle's
mysterious hints and their possible consequences. He did not
exactly know, how to take his amiable relation, but he was ready
enough, to benefit by his assistance and before reaching the fac-
tory, he had fully resolved, to have a chance at the fat things in
prospect and not allow -the others to step in before him, as they
were want to do.
Mr. Fuchs and Charles were busily engaged in calculating
something lying oin their workbench; their backs were turned

124                 DOLORES.


126                     DOLORES.
owards the messenger and both were considerably startled, when
Henry with intentional abruptness, cried out to them:
"Father! mother wants you at home: uncle Jacob from Ger-
many has come."
"Who has come, Henry ?" Mr. Fuchs asked with a surprise
bordering on bewilderment.
"He has been in the cellar, father" Charles suggested with an
ironical smile, "he has paid a visit to the rhine-wine and seen
visions of home."
A cold hateful glance from Henry's eye resented the irony.
"You are right, I have been in the cellar" he replied, "I have
also fetched up wine, but not for myself; I tell you again, 'uncle
Jacob has come and mother wants you to come home."
Mr. Fuchs shook his head. This seemed Ivery. incredible to
him for reasons of his own. Turning to Charles he said: -
"What can this mean? I have not seen nor corresponded with
my brother for more than twenty years: could it be hardly pos-
sible...."
"We can easily find out father. Somebody must have come
and I suppose we may as well go home, to see. Henry run back
to tell mother, we are coming. We shall just wash a little and
see to things before we start."
Charlie's word was law to Henry ; morethan his parents'. True
he hated his brother for the authority he exercised over him; but
still he obeyed, therein resembling most other slavish spirits, who
smile and lick spittle in their betters' face and make a fist at them
within their pocket.
So on master Henry strolled. His relatives however prepared
to leave the. factory, pondering on the news, that had been
brought to them and wondering what it could mean.
"It cannot be, it surely cannot be" Mr. Fuchs continued to
reiterate.
"Why not, fatherr" Charles, replied,' struck by something
peculiar in his father's manner. "If your brother is living, he
surely might have come, for though you did not correspond with
him, he might have easily got our address from other friends at
home. Is their anything special, that makes you think, he

DOLORES.               127

Mr. Fuchs was the prey of uneasiness and hesitancy. For a.
few moments, he remained silent; then however he replied:
"My Charlie, you are more of a man and a friend to me, than
many another boy would be. I can trust you without fear. I am
glad you sent Henry back; for I can now give you a few hints
concerning this brother of mine, that may prove useful, in case
he should really have come."
By this time, the two had left the factory and begun to walk
towards the house, which was not far distant, as the reader will
recollect.
"I must be brief, Charlie," Mr. Fuchs co menced again Jacob,
you know, was my only brother. I hate to say evil things about
him, but the truth is, that he from his ear y childhood was the
black sheep of the family. Often when I ee Henry's wayward-
ness, I can't help thinking, that he bears a trong resemblance to
his uncle and that thought needs makes m wretched. I cannot
tell you Jacob's misdemeanors in detail, m. son, but shall merely
state, that he managed by his intrigues to eprive me of my par-
ent's affection and finally to drive me fro  my native home; to
seek another beyond the ocean. The wound he thus struck me,
has healed long ago and I bear my brother no malice. I have
even abstained from mentioning anything about it to your mother
for nobody likes to blacken his own kindred. But now this is,
different of course. If your uncle has really come,-a thing I am
strongly inclined to doubt,-my duty requires me, to give you a
hint, so as to guard against the evil consequences of any intrigues
he may feel disposed to spin. If on the other hand he has re-
formed and comes with good intentions, why my communications
will be buried in your breast and not prevent you from doing jus-
tice to your uncle. Am I right Charlie?"
"Right as ever, father. I thank you for your confidence and
promise you to treat this uncle according to his merits, provided
some strange vagrant has nof, imposed on mother. But here we
are and shall soon know, what it amounts too. There is mother
in a glow."
He was right. When they stepped into the house, Mrs. Fuchs
met them with a countenance, so fluttered and excited, that she
didn't at all look like herself.
"Oh! there you are at last" she cried.  I thought you would


DOLORES.

never come. And how sober you look ! I declare, you don't seem
to.be glad at all. Didn't Henry tell you, that brother Jacob has
arrived?"
Mr. Fuchs was going to explain; but Charles laying his haud
on his father's arm, stopped him saying:
"Leave -mother to me father, you better go up at once and look
to the stranger. We must of course identify his person before
we can proceed."
Mr. Fuchs nodded and ascending the stairway, left his wife and
son to themselves. Charles laid his hand around his mother's
waist and closeted himself with her in a neighboring room.
When a few minutes afterwards they appeared again, the face of
Mrs. Fuchs had much sobered down; indeed she looked so gloomy
that Charles thought it necessary, to caution her.
"Cheer up mother dear" he whispered in her ear. "Remember
our visitor must not see this change, nor Henry either. The boy
is not considerate enough to be trusted. Moreover, all may be
right, you know, and we may still rejoice, at our kindman's com-
."
"You are my good, clever boy" she replied, looking tenderly
into his noble face "and I shall endeavor to control myself. But
listen, they are coming."
She was right. A door up-stairs opened and the sharp snap-
pish voice of the stranger penetrated in all its modulations
through the house.
"I don't like his voice" Charles whispered to his mother, "if
his person isn't more agreable.... ."-
He hadn't time to finish, for already the stranger was descend-
ing in company of Mr. Fuchs.
"Aye! aye!" they heard him say, "just in time brother Conrad,
just in time, to recruit my strength and purse. I .tell you, they
are both considerably, exhausted."
"I am glad Jacob, that I am able to supply to all your wants."
It's really uncle Jacob" Charles whispered to his mother.
"And so am I brother, so am I. Not that I want much from
you, or long, or to .keep--no indeed, I have rather come to bestow,
and not to take."
"Speak plainly, Jacob, I do not understand you."
"Of course you don't, Conrad, I do not wish you should. All

in due season you know, in due season. But whom have we here?
Ah my good sister-in-law, the Samaritan, who fed the stranger
without knowing him, though the wine she gave me, was a beg.
garly wine. And this young chap? ah I recollect, you have
another boy. Charles-isn't that your name my son?"
"Nephew, uncle, you mean to say. I am Charles Fuchs and at
your service."
These words less, than the manner of utterance excercised as a
check upon uncle Jacob, at least as far as Charles was concerned.
The young man practiced that effectual means of holding at the
(listance-overdrawn politeness-than which there is no better
remedy. It acts like so many weapons, thrust against the rude
invader, repelling his advances like pointed bayonets of a needles
sharpness. Uncle Jacob could not break down Charles defences
then, nor-indeed-afterwards and we may as well state at. once,
that the relation between uncle and nephew never became a cor-
dial one. Mr. Fuchs could be bullied, his wife persuaded, and
Henry coaxed ; but Charles preserved his distant politeness or
rather his polite distance and proved a most effectual barrier to
uncle Jacob's forwardness. That gentleman felt an indistinct
aversion to the young man and this similarity of feeling soon be-
came a new bond of fellowship between the new comer and Henry,
so that they were mostly in each other's company.
"Thank you, Sir, thank you indeed" the visitor replied. "Uncle
Jacob may call on you, before you think it; though he is not the
man, to accept services without compensation. But sister Bar-
bara, I see you are getting impatient and so am I. If you'll lead
the way to the dining-room, I shall show you without delay, how
my little lunch of before has prepared my stomach for a good
supper."
Mrs. Fuchs opened a door and the company entered a room,
where a very acceptable meal had been spread. Uncle Jacob was
the first one to sit down ; he had already pitched1Aeeply into the
mysteries of a half a dozen dishes, .before the others had taken
up their knives and forks.
"You do pretty well for America, madam," he said with'a con-
descending nod, without letting his speaking interfere with his
eating "and if a glass of good Rhinewine washes the victuals
down, they pass to their receptacle in a pleasant enough manner.
9

0

129

DOLORES.

128


130                     DOLORES.
Brother Conrad, I hope you have provided yourself tolerably
well with this sort of wine. You recollect, I always preferred it
to all others."
"Indeed I don't Jacob."
"Well, take my word for it then, brother. I'll do my best in
helping you finish your supply and then it shall be my turn to
treat and you must assist me, as I do you now. Only wait, u14
I make my fortune....."
"Oh you are going to make your fortune uncle?"
Uncle Jacob was annoyed and for a moment felt inclined to re.
sent Charles irony; but the face of the young man didn't look
at all inviting, so he checked his vexations and said with a laugh:
"Indeed I am, though you seem inclined to make light of it.
Ju  wait until I call you all in a familycouncil; for then you will
hear astounding disclosures. But now we are at supper friends
and it is my principal to always do with undivided energy, whet
I am doing. So please, sister, to reach me some of that pudding
and, brother, if it wouldn't be too much trouble, to replace this
empty bottle by a full one-thank you, sir. I love to deal with
people that take tender hints and needn't be winked at with
fence posts."
Any one seeing uncle Jacob at his supper wouldn't entertain the
least doubt, that he was concentrating all his energy upon that
work. If his other undertakings all resembled this, he surely
was a pushing fellow and the search after fortune might be suc-
cessful. True, thus far he had evidently failed, judging from the
shabby garments he had now exchanged for better ones of his
host and brother; but then the best pointer may sometimes lose
the scent ; and there is hope as long as there is life. Uncle
Jacob's life was very tenacious; for if all the adventures and
hardships, of this with the narration of which he entertained the
family, were true, he surely could boast of having borne what
nine tenths of mankind would be unable to endure.
At last they arose. The visitor's capacity of receiving and
storing food had by no means been entirely exhausted; but he
managed to take a bottle of wine and a plate of cake into the
parlor comforting himself with the thought, that it wasn't much
farther to the cellar and pantry from there than from the dining-
o-omi and that at all events this labor fell to the lot of others.

DOLORES.                       131
The evenings were getting long and Mrs. Fuchs found it ne-
cessary to light the fine lamp, which graced the mantlepiece and
was only used for extraordinary occasions. Its light drew a pleas
ant comfortable glow over the room and uncle Jacob, who had
planted himself into the most comfortable easechair of the room,
had good reason to congratulate himself, to have found a home,
which contrasted strangely with the adventurous life, he had lat-
ely led and appeared to exercise a double charm in prospect of
the coming winter. He had lit a cigar without in the least as-
certaining Mrs. Fuchs' sentime t concerning this privilege and
the pleasure of puffing off rings nd columns of smoke had for a
while even overcome the enjoyment of letting his tongue run and
keeping his auditors in suspense with scenes and sketches of his
past life, which were entirely more striking than probable
During one of these lulls, the gate of the garden was heard to
swing and then a knock at the door betrayed the coming of
another visitor.
"Why that is Dol" Charles exclaimed, springing to his feet and
hastening towards the door. "She was to come this evening;
ut we forgot through uncles arrival."
He left the room and a minute afterwards reappeared in com-
pany of a young lady. It is well that we know from Charlie's
words, who stands before us, or we would surely not recognize
our former friend. This young stately creature the little girl of
old? In this splendidly devolped form we do not recognize the
angular points of a wandering minstrel girl, who by her painful
leanness awoke the pity of charitable souls? Charles tells us,.it
is his friend Dolores and we surely have no reason to doubt his
word. The black massy curls are there, as of old; so is the fiery
eye, though moderated and subdued by gentle, sweetness and a
look of thoughtfulness, which speaks of mental treasures under-
neath. Her complexion is not very white, but clear and trans-
parent, showing the slightest variations of the' purple flood be-
neath. Her teetl are perfect and as she greets the company as-
semnbled, a smile of exquisite beauty flits over her perfect feat-
ures. They are now fully developed and the promise of the bud
has been fulfilled by the open flower. She is-but no! I shall
not attempt to paint a beauty, which defies the painter's brush,
much more the sharp point, with which the author is to depict

L
4
x
e
l
l
s


132                    DOLORES.
the features of his heroes and the traits of their character. Per-
haps tbe reader may, by following my tale, catch here and there
a glimpse of the charms, a view into the soul of this young being.
on which nature had for once without freaks, wasted her richest
gifts and blessings-with these glimpses he must rest satisfied.
CHAPTER XIII.
A LETTER.
Mrs. Fuchs arose and with motherly care, took the hat and
shawl of the visitor.
"You are late Dol" she said-having long ago adopted Charles
mode of naming her-"we had almost given you up."
"I had to wait for papa," she said, casting a sideglance at the
stranger on the arm chair. "He intended coming with me, but
being suddenly prevented by pressing business, sent James along,
too see me safely to the cottage. It wasn't necessary" she added
with a light laugh "for I am no at all afraid ; but papa wills it so
and like a dutiful daughter I obe ." -
After this Charles took it upon imself, to inform his friend of
the great event of the day. First her eye brightened consider-
ably at the news of the arrival of a uncle from Germany and she
welcomed the stranger in his native tongue with her usual warmth
of expression; but when he an vered in his cynic style and in
course of the evening displayed traits of character not at all com-
*       mendable,.she shrank from the new comer, becoming rather taci-
turn and merely casting uncertain glances on his vulgar features,
when she thought she could do this without observation.
Uncle Jacob in the meantime continued his libations and from
the growing freedom of expression and total absence of restraint
it became evident, that fiery wine began to make a marked im-
pression upon his brain. Becoming more boastful and vainglori-
ous every minute, at last he said:
"This wine is good, verteufelt good. It opens man's heart, as
the poet says; it surely opened mine. I did not mean to make
you so early the recipients of the golden news, I bear within my

DOLORES.                    133

pocket; but you have been so clever to uncle Jacob, that he' an-
not think of leaving you in the dark any longer. Yes indeed, you
have not honored a niggardly uncle as my communications will
soon show. Brother Conrad, do you recollect our great grand-
uncle Eberhard?"
"Yes, Jacob, I do. Grandfather often spoke to us about him.
He had a restless roving disposition, visiting all the countries on
the globe and finally dying far from home, nobody knows, where."
"Nobody knew where, you better say; for lately documents
have been discovered, which make it almost certain, that he died
on the cost of Maine, probably in the neighborhood."
"Indeed?" Conrad inquired with that curiosity, which is so na-
tural, when the destiny of some member of the family is made
th'e topic of conversation. The others also listened to uncle
Jacob with more attention, than they had hitherto evinced during
the evening, ithout however in the least understanding what the
history of a great grand-uncle could have to do, with the golden
news, that had been promised.
"Indeed?" he said "that must have been quite recently; for it
is altogether new to me. How did that happen?"
"Why, this way. You recollect our grant aunt Sarah, who
died an old maid a number of years ago."
"Of course, I do. We received a little legacy from her."
"Exactly. Well, about a year ago the house in which she had
lived and which had lbeen in the Fuchs' Family for many gener-
ations, was repaired and on removing some old rubbish on the
garret, a box with musty papers was discovered, which on closer
examination proved to contain family documents. The owner
not belonging to the old stock and hearing about my temporary
presence in the town, sent for me and on my ar 4al at the house
delivered the whole box into my hands. I caus d it at once to be
removed to my lodgings and feeling rather curious to learn the
nature of the papers, began to examine them. It was a tedious
task. Most of the papers were diaries, treating on the income
and expenses of the Fuchs' for many a year. To me they were
extremely indifferent, or rather a course of vexation, for it made
me angry to think, that such large sums had once been handled
by my ancestors and yet not a cent come down to my poor person.
I was already on the point of delivering the whole plunder to the


134                    DOLORES.
fire, when all at once a name and date attractd my attention
and kept my eye like riveted to the document on which they stood.
The name was Eberhardt Fuchs and the date the year 1760."
"Well, what more ? Go on uncle Jacob" Charles urged the nar
rator, who had stopped for a moment.'
"Ah! the young gentleman gets interested", Jacob Fuchs
remarked with a grin and evident satisfaction at the other's im -
patience. "Well, I'm coming; only give me a moment's time, to
produce the document."
With these words he put his hand into his coat pocket and
drew out a large and old-fashioned diary which was firmly secured-
by a leather-string reaching half-a-dozen times around it. Uncle
Jacob unwoun'it slowly and with the dignity of a man, that
knows, what he is about. At last the string was off and the cover
yielding to the presence of the hand displayed a number of pock-
ets all of which were empty, excepting one, that contained a yel-
low looking paper. Jacob seized it with a solemn mien and turn-
ing to the company remarked:
"The time has come, when those of you that suspected uncle
Jacob's soundness of mind, will humble themselves before him
and eagerly beg his forgiveness. It will be easily obtained and
readily bestowed; but Mr. Charles being the greatest skeptic, if
I am not mistaken, deserves a little penalty, which we shall inflict
on him, by making him read the letter to the company."
Charles was well satisfied with this punishment ; his interest
was awakened and fearing the delay, which would surely result
from his uncle's pompous way, he was very willing to act in the
capacity of reader. Taking the paper from the other's hand and
holding it to the light, in order to decipher the lines, which time
had half obliterated, he read:
On Board of Rover, Gulf of Mexico.)
;   erCrln!July 20th. 1760.(
'Dear -Caroline !
In spite of your interdiction, I take the pen, to write to you. I
cannot heljit; for just as the plant turns its head to the sunlight,
I turn to you for one smile, one word of comfort, yes of love.
You banished me from my native home; you drive me a fugitife
over land and sea and I shall not even have the comfort, to write
to you? to tell you, that I love you as much, no, more than ever.

DOLORES.                135

This can, this must not be, and if I displease and offend you by
this letter, I take comfort at the thought, that my approaching
dissolution will atone for it.
I shall not live much longer, Caroline and there is comfort in
the thought, for it means, I shall not suffer and sin much longer.
Suffer and sin! Yes Caroline, I have had hell in my bosom, eve.
since you disdained my love; and reached to brother John the
hand, which ought to have been mine. A sea of fire has been
raging there, where others carry feelings of a gentle nature. It
has driven me from continent {to continent and plunged me in a
vortex of the worst of dissipations. Or do you think, that deeds
of virtue could spring from fiery passions such as mine? No,
Caroline, it could not be and your good and pure soul would
shrink from me, if it could look into the dreadful abyss from
which the deeds of my dark career have risen.
Why do I write this down? Why do I make you, as it were,
an accomplice of my crimes? Ah, love is selfish, Caroline and
unrequited love yearns for revenge. You were mine, mine alone
if deep undying passion secures a claim, and yet you gave away,
what belonged to me and by doing so created a blank in my na-
ture, which has never since been filled. No smile has lit my face,
no affection warmed my heart; no sympathy has drawn me to a
fellow being. No ray has ever shone into that blank, that dread-
ful blank; but grim spectres have arisen there, spectres with dia-
bolical faces, that have sneered at innocence and virtue and al-
lured me on to a path of wickedness, on which no sin is wanting,
that hell can boast of. You know, I never was a halfway man,
and my love which could have made a saint of me, if requited
has driven me to the extremes of iniquity, since you disdained it.
I am tired of life, for life can offer nothing worth living for,
since you are denied me. The long years of separation have been
one continued effort, to forget yon; but that effort has been no-
thing abut a miserable failure. Imagine then, how glad I must be,
to see the moment approaching, when this wretched wreck of
mine will forever disappear from the surface of.-life's ocean. I
shall not prompt the hand of time, I am not coward enough, to
lift my hand against myself-but I feel, I know with deep satis-
faction, that the volcano in my bosom has nearly spent its wrath,
that the substance feeding it, has wellnigh become exhausted.
Farewell Caroline. I owe to you much suffering-but I also owe
to you a happiness of bygone ,days, the very recollection of which
would be bliss, if not embittered by the torments of jealousy. I
do not curse you or .your memory-let that suffice; for as to
blessing you-I have forgotten how to.
I leave much gold; I leave it to your children. My will has
been executed end rests safely in a- cave on the coast of Maine,
near the large estate on which my brother Walter lives as steward.


136                      DOLORES.

He is to have a competence, but the greatest portion goes unto
your children, as the testament will show. I shall deposit it in
the courts, as soon as I return there, for I feel, that my days are
numbered.
Do not thank me Caroline; for you have no occasion. In leav-
ing my money to your children I hardly know, whether I act
from motives of revenge or affection. Alas I love your little
ones in as-far as they are part of you; but I feel malignant hate
arising in my bosom, when I consider that they are also part of
his.
No, Caroline, no, thank me not! But when you sooner or later
look upon the mementoes of a man, that died a victim of his love,
remember with a tear
poor Eberhardt.
During the reading of this passionate letter a deep silence had
been reigning in the room. Even after Charles had finished the
echoes of soul stirring appeal continued to vibrate in the hearts
of the hearers, and when uncle Jacob interrupted the silence with
the exultation of the heir expectant, they felt it like a discord
jarring upon their hearts. He evidently was callous to such silly
sentiments; or may be, the many readings, he had given the letter
had hardened him against its impressions.
"Well, what now ?" he inquired, sending a triumphant glance
"round the room "where are the skeptics, the scoffers ? Who is
the first, to ask pardon of the benignant uncle, that is to make
you all rich?"'
His words in a degree dispelled the feelings of the company,
awakened' by the reading. Charles was the first to collect him-
self sufficiently for an answer:
"Not quite so fast uncle!" he exclaimed with a smile on his
lips. This letter is a fine document and well calculated to set our
hearts throbbing; but it is merely a promise uncle and a promise
and its fulfilment are two different things. Before we humble
ourselves before you in sackcloth and ashes, tell us, where is the
testament of the writer?"
"The testament? Ah-hm-well the testament is-is at a
place, of which I am not exactly aware ; that is, I presume I have
my idea . ."
"And what is your idea, uncle?"_
Uncle Jacob cleared his throat and arranged his cravat. Then
he emptied a glass of wine in a draft and finally said:

DOLORES.                        137
"You see, the letter speaks about the courts...."
"But which courts uncle ?"
"That's more, than I can tell; but Eberhardt Fuchs evidently
means the courts of Maine."
"There are many courts in Maine, uncle."
"Pshaw! nephew, I know all that; but there number is not so
large, that we couldn't soon find out, whether the last will of a cer-
tain Eberhardt Fuchs, or Fox had been recorded there."
"Fuchs or Fox?" Charles inquired with increased attention,
.what do you mean by these two names?"
I mean simply that from a diary of,our Great grand aunt it is
evident, that Eberhardts brother Walter, mentioned in this letter
had changed his German name of Fuchs to the English equival-
ent of Fox."
The family exchanged glances; but there seemed to be a tacit
agreement tt leave to Charles the office of speaker.
"That brings us nearer home indeed" the young man remarked
thoughtfully, "for there is a family of Fox in' this village, who
have been here for several generations and in case of the correct-
liess of your statements would be our relatives. Just think of it
mother! you the cousin of proud Mrs. Fox in the mansion!
Won't she enjoy the idea tho'?"
Charles laughed heartily, turning his eyes from his mother to
the fair visitor at his side, who sat there the very picture of sus-
pense and excitement. However before Mrs. Fuchs or anybody
else could reply to Charlie's remark, uncle Jacob hadsnatched up
the word, saying:
"Let her enjoy it or not, dear nephew; that can be very indif-
ferent to us. Let us discover the testament, the precious testa-
ment, and we may laugh at her displeasure; for displeased she
will be, I am sure, on receiving short notice to quit and make
room for better people.. Yes. she wont like it, I dare say."
"But even if we find the testament uncle, you forget that this
Mr. Eberhardt makes his brother joint heir with the children of
Caroline."
"Pshaw ! a trifle, a bonus, a bone thrown to the dogs. Don't
he speak of munch gold, and that his brother John is merely to
have a competence?"


138                    DOLORES.

"That is true, and if you find the testament you may indeed be
able to compel Mrs. Fox, to move her trucks. .
"Ali there ! I am glad you think so!"
A silence followed these words and the company was evidently
the prey of some embarrasment. At last Mrs. Fuchs drew a
breath saying.
"I 'for my part hope, it won't be found. I don't like to drive
people out of their possessions."
"Nor I!" said Charles promptly, his father joining him. Henry
kept silent, his eager eye watching his uncle's lips,"
"Are you crazy?" Jacob inquired, letting his wondering eye
wander from one member of the family to the other. "That is
down right madness. But if you want to play the sympathizing
fools, bear well in mind, that uncle Jacob will not keep your com-
pany, I haven't for nothing set my last farthing on the success-
ful establishment of this claim, and if you are willing to forego
your rights, I for one shall push mine with, every particle of
strength in my possession.'
Another silence, which uncle Jacob employed, to drain another
glass of wine. Charles was the first to speak again.
"I do not blame you much, for your determination; for you do
not, like us, entertain friendly relations to the family concerned. I
acknowledge, that you have a right to investigate this case; but
I feel extremely doubtful, whether you will succeed.- If such a
will as that this letter speaks about had ever been . filed in our
courts, we could hardly have failed to learn something about it.
However it is not impossible, and if you do succeed, I shall not
be slow to congratulate you."
"Charles, how can you speak so?" his mother inquired with
tones of reproach. "Does it not clearly appear from that letter,
that the gold of Eberhardt Fuchs is the result of sin -and iniquity?
It is dated on board a vessel: have you forgotten the story in the
mouth of the people concerning a certain pirate, who bore the
name of Fox?"
"No, mother, I haven't. I never believed in it; but now I
think, I was mistaken."
"And such gold you would rejoice in?"
"Mothers I did not say so. I merely said, that I should con-
gratulate uncle Jacob, in case he should succeed in establishing

DOLORES.                        139
his claim. iMoreover our opinion concerning this ancestors of
ours merelg rests:on a supposition; let us at least give him the
benefit of a doubt."
The miens of uncle Jacob showed a nervous restlessness.
Helping himself to-more wine and gulping it down as if desirous
of gathering strength and resolution from it, he snapped his
fingers, saying
"You are a pious set, you are. When a member of the family
comes across the ocean, a man that is tied to you by bonds of
blood, and holds out to you the prospect of unbounded wealth,
You say "f" into his face and would rather see him die in want
and poverty, than have a family of strangers come to harm. I
call that mean, and when you set up wry faces and cross yourself
against the demon, that helped amass the gold and may be guards
it all the while, I call that ridiculous."
"Don't get excited, brother Jacob" Mr. Fuchs now exhorted
the visitor, whose flushed countenance threatened further com-
plications. "Keep calm and let us all sleep upon this wonderful
relation, before we make it the matter of further deliberations,"
"well, I have no objections" Jacob said, "only the matter ought
to be kept amongst ourselves. If we allow it, our adversary may
take measures to strengthen his position. The family I hope,
will keep the secret and that young lady...."
"All eyes were turning to Dolores, who in the excitement of the
discovery had been overlooked.
She blushed, but after a moment's hesitation replied:
"I shall respect your secret, sir, although you are conspiring
against a man, who is my father ard my benefactor."
"What!" uncle Jacob exclaimed with indignation, "she a
(laughter of this man and I received no warning?"
"She is a foster-daughter, uncle" Charles replied, "but I go bail
for her secrecy."
"A foster-daughter?" Jacob returned and his look became quite
Vague and absent. "She looks, as if she wasp a member of the
family. There was a miniature picture amongst aunt Sarah's
things, that looked exactly like her. Are you sure she is not a
relative of ours?"
"Sure, uncle! She is Italian by birth and her name is Gatana."
"Gatana? That name sounds strange to me, tho' one of Caro.


140                    DOLORES.
line's sons went to Italy and settled there. He was a painter and
a roving fellow like his uncle Eberhardt, though nothing evil
could ever be, said of him. He married in Rome and had a son
who also became a painter and a celebrated one too. I shouldn't
know this, if it hadn't been for a diary of our great grand-mother,
which fell into my hands with this letter."
"You have her diary?" Charles inquired eagerly. "0, let me
see it, uncle, for she must have been a wonderful woman, who
could inspire such a violent passion.'
"Indeed, I never could see anything wonderful about her looks-
or her writings. There was a picture of hers in the box."
"But the diary, uncle, the diary!"
"I am sorry, I cannot give it-to you just now; it is in my car-
petbag. But if you'll have patience till to-morrow...
"Of course uncle, I can wait that long. To-morrow morning
then, I shall call on you for the papers."_
The conversation now turned on other points; but it was flat
and dragging, as might well be expected after such startling dis-
closures.  Uncle Jacob moreover by this time reached the
drowsy stadium of drunkenness and after a good deal of nodding
was gone into the land of dreams. Delicacy of feeling prevented
the family from making commentaries on himand his doings and
other topics proving stale, the family retired sooner, than was
customary. Dolores gave the signal, by rising and signifying her
intention to depart for home. James having beent ordered at a
later hour, the company of Charles was offered and accepted and
soon the young couple wandered under a starry sky. But the
heart of Dolores was too full. to remain unopened and stopping
suddenly she exclaimed:
"0 ! Charlie, this is wonderful! almost as strange as our ad-
venture in the cave."-
"You see the the bearing then, 1)ol, which both events 'have
upon one another?",
"I think I do, Charlie, though I tremble at making my deduc-
tions. Mr. Fox' ancestor a pirate'!"
"Why dont you say, and mine too!"
"Because, I couldn't think of wounding thus your feeling."
Charles smiled.
"I am not so easily wounded, D~ol, as that. Uncle .Jacob would

DOLORES. .,141
be proud of the connexion, if that could only secure his money,"
."Uncle Jacob is no favorite of mine; pardon me for saying that
much of a relative of yours."
"There is no occasion for asking pardon, Dol. You know we
never differed much in judgment."
"So you don't like him either?"
"Like him? I have a notion to make you ask my pardon now."
"And you think, there is 'not much danger of his finding the
testament?"
"Not much danger of his finding it; but I know a couple, who
might have better chances."
Again the girl started. Stopping short, she said.
"You mean us two: could it be barely possible that the cave
should still hold the secret?"
"Not only possible; but almost certain unless the ancestors of
your foster-father discovered and destroyed the document,in or-
der to improve their claim."
"That would have been a crime?"
Charles shrugged his shoulders.
"Few men are overscrupulous, where money is concerned.
Take uncle Jacob as an example : lie would do many things, I
venture, which are not recorded in the book of honor, to approp-
riate the prize, he is in search of."
When Dolores did not reply, lie continued:
"No, I think the willstill lies secreted, where the pirate buried
it and I have but little doubt, that the cave is the spot. How
fortunate, that our term of probation is drawing to a close."
',Why Charlie, you think of aiding this man against my father?"
"No, Dol; you must not look at in this light. The finding of
the will may be as propicious to Mr. Fox as to us and then, it is
more than likely, that the place which hides the testament, will
also contain a portion, may be a large portion of the treasures of
which the letter speaks."
"Then you think, that the unhappy man never returned to the
cave?"
"Returned perhaps to die there. Don't you remember the tale
I told you, Dol ?"
"I doremember" she said with a shudder. "What a horrible
end !"


142                     DOLORES.
"The story may magnify the horror. The bones however, we
found, warrant a shade of truth to it."
"But why should later visitors, why should those men we saw
there, not have buried the skeleton?"
"Perhaps, to terrify uncalled visitors. Let that be, as it may:
I am bound, to search for the will, as soon as I am free, to go to
the cave.'
"When will that be?"
"Within one week, just from to  '
"Is not the risk you run too great a stake for the possible
gain ?"
"May be, Dol; but it isn't the gain, that tempts me. There is
a mystery concerning our family and as long as that is unrevea-
led, I shall have no rest.
"I think, I understand you, Charlie and I shall make no further
objections, provided you allow me, to satisfy my curiosity at the
same time."
"There you have got me now, Dol, I declare. It is hardly fair,
to set such traps for your friends; but you have the advantage
and may as well follow it up. But ain't you afraid to go, child?"
We see that Charles carefully preserves old privileges, for the
appellation of "child" is hardly applicable to that companion at
his side.
Dolores shook her head.
'I am not afraid, Charlie" she said with a smile, "but I experi-
ence the feeling, that used to creep over.me, when a child I list-
ened to the fairy tales of old. b If it is a fear, it certainly is clothed
into a very attractive garb."
The dear girl in -giving this reply evidently did not examine her
inner 'self very closely. If she had done so, she might-have found
that she was more afraid for her companion, than for herself and
being unable to prevent his going, found a comfort in sharing his
danger.
Therdistance to the mansion was but short and the young
couple reached the carriage-gate much sooner than they liked.
Not, that this feeling had manifested itself to them in a tangible
shape-Dol might have even attempted a denial-but it surely
was in existence ; it showed itself in the pressure of their hands,
at parting, in the slightly doleful character of the "good night"

DOLORES.                        143
and the repeated turning of the head, of which both parties were
guilty, although they might as well have omitted it, for all the
benefit they derived from it in the dead of the night.
Happy young couple! happy, because they are so without
knowing it, enjoying, as it were, the rich hour of promise just be-
fore the dawn of morning. The sun will soon rise; the glories of
his colors will set the skies on fire; his genial heat, his alluring
smile will entice all nature into frolicsome gladness. 'he flowers
will then open, the bugs will buzz;. a deep, a trembling happiness
will penetrate through nature. The earth will heave, and shout
in thousand voices the supreme rapture of existence, as if it feared
to suffocate of the fulsomeness of life's delight.
All this the hour of early morn anticipates and so does the
youthful heart foretaste the bliss of love, before the conscious
ness of love has even dawned. No constraint has as yet fettered
the general intercouse between the youth and maiden; no stam-
mering diffidence, no burning blush become the treacherous index
of their heart's sensations. Hand in hand they wander over
meadows, decked with flowers; their bosoms calm, their faces
serene, their steps elastic. But now the heavenly light peeps over
the horizon, wrapping the distant mountains in a vail of purple.
They stop, to look; they look and wonder; they wonder and an
ined sensation, as strange as new, creeps over their hearts,
inns along their nerves, shoots through their brain, knocking
every where at the secret doors of their existence and caus-
ing new life to spring under its footsteps. At once they know
and tremble at their knowledge; they shrink from one another's
ght and flee each other, merely to unite.  No longer does
their laughter's merry peel echo through the woods and on the
banks of the rivulets; they grow pale and melancholy, but drink-
appiness from     their very sadness; they-in short they
love, obeying thus the great eternal law, which called them foth
to existence for that purpose. Love! life's essence and con-
dition, its in and out, its up and down, its all and everything!
Love! the old story, told ever since Adam learned to know the
charms of Eve and yet not finished and never to be finished as
long as minutes run along the everlasting stream of time.


144                 DOLORES.

CHAPTER XIV.
A VOICE FROM THE GRAVE.
When Charles called on his uncle the next morning for the pa-
pers promised, that gentleman was still in bed, snoring away the
effects of last night's potations. But Charles declined, to stand
on ceremony; he was impatient for the papers and at the same
time thought, that his uncle wasn't the man to be approached on
tiptoe. So he went up to the bed, and shaking the arm of the
sleeper, cried into his ear.
"Good morning uncle Jacob. I hope you enjoyed a good
night's rest."
Oh! ah !" the sleeper groaned, throwing his arms wildly around
his head. "Don't take the will, you shan't have the will.
"He dreams about it" Charles muttered and giving his uncle
a second shaking, tried to, awake him.
At last the man opened his eyes, staring at - the youth with a
gaze, so vacant, as to lack every vestige of intelligence and re-
cognition. However bye and bye he grew more wakeful and rub
bing his eyes, said to his nephew:
"Ah, Charles, that's you; up and dressed.  Ah, you young
folks have the advantage of us. I declare I am as drowsy, as if
I hadn't slept an hour. What time is it Charlie?"
"Oh it's early enough, uncle. Only I thought I'd wake you
in time, to get ready for breakfast."
"Thank you my boy; but I don't feel a bit hungry this morning
and with your kind permission shall get another nap. Your
mother's good things won't run away, youknow."
"Just as you please, uncle. Only I would thank you to give
me that diary now. I have to go to the factory bye and bye and
should like to read before I leave.
"Exactly, Charlie. Here take the key and open my carpet-bag.
Do you see the bundle of papers! Just take the top one: that's
it. I hope you'll enjoy the reading, though I doubt it very much,
for to tell you the truth Charlie, it's nothing but woman's gossip
and awful dry in the bargain."
"I'll try to make the best of it, uncle."
"Exactly, Charlie, but stop a moment, if you please. One favor
is worth another, you kiow and I may as well state to you inl

DOLORES.                       145
confidence, that I am in the habit of regulating my appetite for
the day by a little dram in the morning."
You want a glass of wine uncle?"
"No Charlie, no wine. The best wine has some acidity, which
contracts the stomach and prevents it from doing its whole duty.
I want something of a stronger nature, something that will shut
up the cracks and fissures in my old receptacle and impart a glow
of health and vigor to its muscles."
"I understand you uncle" Charles replied with a laugh, for he
could not help enjoying his uncles pointed way of stating things
in spite of his uncouthness. He applied to his mother for' the
strongest stomach bitters she had in the house and filling a large
tumbler with it, returned to his uncle; who on his arrival at the
room had already closed one eye and merely seemed to keep the
other open, to report the coming of the dram at headquarters.
"Ah, that's a good boy. If the quality equals the quantity I
shall hardly have to find fault,"
Charles smiled,' when his uncle took the tumbler and in one
draft, poured its contents down his throat. The young man could
hardly have swallowed a drop without burning his throat and he
felt a mischivous pleasure at anticipating his uncles discomfiture.
But he had reckoned without the host-not even a mien did that
experienced imbiber of alcoholic drinks suffer to get out of shape.
"First rate !" he said smacking his lips and sending forth at
almost the same instance the first of a number of snores, which
at once convinced his nephew ofthe uselessness of further efforts
at conversation. The youth was however by no means inclined
to waste any time on the old tippler ; but seizing the paper with
an eager grasp, left the room, to seek the solitude of his own.
Moving a rocking chair to the window, through which the first-
rays of the sun proclaimed a golden morning, he prepared to read
the effusious of a heart, which had been mouldering in the grave.
yard for many, many years. It was with a certain veneration
that Charles brought the manuscript to his eye and read:
. - - ---.... .. ..Be quiet, heart: what doest thouwish? Hast
thou not husband and children-such darling children to dote
upon --what doest thou want? Canst thou not quit, to dwell upon
a recollection, which is as idle as it is sinful?   ,
Alas, thus IO admonish it every day, but in vain. I cannot


146   '                 DOLORES.
banish his memory; for the more I try, the more distinctly it rises
to my vision. Eberhardt, you have been well avenged, and your
sad words of farewell will never cease to echo in my soul. Where
are you now? [Jave you finally found a home, to rest your weary
foot, a loving voice to comfort you, a caressing hand, to wipe the
perspiration from your brow? Alas, it was my province to admin-
ister to your wants, my destiny to travel the path of life at your
;side-but a strange perversion blinded me as to my fate and now
-am I culpable? no, merely miserable, in spite of the many bles-
sings of my existence. My husband is good and noble; my
children are worthy both of love and pride and yet-what makes
mxy life a desert? Is it not the endless, ceaseless, neverdying
earning for the man, whom but too late I recognized as the idol
.,Of my soul?
This is sinful, I know; but I have given it up, to stifle-an emo-
tion, which fills my heart to the exclusion of a wife's affection, a
mother's love. Sometimes I feel, as if I could no longer bear
this suspense; as if I had to tear myself from home and kindred
and my native country to hunt his trace all over the world and
having found him, die contented at his feet.
................I was too cruel when he went. I forbade him
to think of me, to write to me. Ah, at that moment I was yet
unconscious of the condition of my heart. To-day I have no
greater wish, no more ardent desire, than to hear from him, to
,know, how he bears the exile to which my madness drove him.
................ I have -heard from him. Years have passed
since his departure; but every circumstance connected with it, is
as vividly impressed on my memory as on the very day, he left us.
Poor Eberhardt ! he cannot rest and by his restlessness destroys
my peace as well. My heart at least has learned to beat more
quietly; but my soul is as much troubled at the exiles destiny as
ever it was. If I could only see him enter in heaven, where he
might rest from the storms of his life : I think, I could still learn
to be happy. My husband's affection is increasing with his years
and my children are displaying traits, of which a mother might
well be proud. My noble John, who with his father's name seems
to have inherited his happy disposition, his equinamity and peace-'
fulness of mind. My beautiful Eberhardt, named after the rest-
less wanderer and restless to himself. He cannot settle down at
any peaceful occupation but always builds up castles in the air.
May heaven protect him from his uncle's destiny.
. ............... Again a letter, the last one I am likely to re-
ceive from him. This awful letter! half curse half blessing.
How, after twenty long years of separation, it has once more pro-
duced an uproar in my soul, of which I would have thought my-
self incapable., Alas ! is this so wonderful? a stranger could not
persue these lines, without feeling a shudder creep through his

DOLORES.                        147
body; much less the person, whom he would like to make account-
able for his transgressions. But am I guilty of his sins? Had
he a right, to rebel against his God and make his wretchedness
an excuse for yielding to his evil passions? No, thank God! I
am not guilty. If I misunderstood the feeling of my heart; if
in the innocence of unconscious maidenhood I took for love the
voice that spoke in me for my husband, his brother John-I suf
fered agonies of years and thereby expiated my mistake. But as
to guilt--I here deny the charge and call to heaven for a witness
of my innocence. But though he wrongs me in his char e I
not help crying and trembling at the horrid picture he conjures
before my eye. What can lie mean? what do his allusionss
ify dOh thiis uncertait, this ambiguity is worse than tes mst
horrid detail of his crime's.3
lHe talks of gold- how did he earn it? He talks also of l
mg it to my .children. I do not want it; they shall not have it
for I fear, their is--but no, I cannot write down the word which
a fearful suspicion whispers in my ear. Let him kee his old
I will pity him, I will pray for him, I will even with gentle hands
adnster unto his wants in case he comes to die at home-but
-I do not want his money.
.... . .. . .He must be dead; I feel it in my heart but
who knows in what country he has laid his weary head upon th
pillow, never to lift it up again.
He must not have returned to Maine or we should have heard
from Walter, to whom he had entrusted the stewardship of h
estate. Should Walter hesitate to write, because he fears, th
we might come and claim a portion of the spoils? Alas the
no danger and if he knew my feelings he might write perhaps and
let me know. It is hard to bear this suspense.
.. ... .......Another year and not a word from him or
Walter. I am more fully convinced than ever, that he is dead.
he thought troubles me and gives me comfort at the same time.
is life was so miserable, that death must have been a blessin-
to him. Indeed his letter says so and if I could but fi
thoughts upon a spot where his weary body rests, I might pray
for him and in my prayer experience a feeling of relief pa
..  ............. To-day my son Eberhardt left us, to  o to
Italy and study the works of art, which grace the cities of that
happy land- He is a great artist and much as my heart aches at
e thought of our long separation, I cannot grudge him the de-
light he anticipates from visiting the home of many master spirit
ay angels guard you on your way. my son, and lead you safel
ack into the arms of your loving mother.
e - - -r. . ........He is in Rome, the city without' rival, the
eternal Rome, which loomed through many centuries and will-
continue to raise its hallowed head as long as the earth harbors


148                       DOLORES.
the children of man. He is in extacies and it is pleasure to
read his letters
.      Resignation is a mother's destiny. After she
has fed her children with the blood of her heart, they leave the
parental roof, may be never to return. Eberhardt has found in
Rome the maiden of his choice and he requests our sanction to
his union with the loved one. What can we do, but consent? and
yet to consent means nothing but to sign our son's degree of ex-
ile. Once married in Italy he may never return to the land of
his fathers.
.         .     Joyous news from Italy! Eberhardt's Maria
has given birth to a son whom they will name Carlo in honor of
his grandmother. Alas! a sad honor it is! for will I ever see
again the son of my heart and the dear child that bears my name?
.     ......I have become resigned to the prospect of
dying without blessing my absent son. The ties that bind him to
his second home become stronger every day, aid though lie pro-
mises in every letter, that the next year shall witness a journey
of his across the Alps-I have my own thoughts about it. Carlo
is getting tall and handsome, his father writes and shows a greater
talent for his father's art, than that father himself. I hope he
will some day be a great artist.
...  ... . ...The expectations of Eberhardt regarding
Carlo's talents have been more than realized. The young man is
only twenty and yet his picture of the crucifixion won the prize
at the exhibition. If anything can mitigate the sadness of sep-
aration from my dear ones, it is the pride I take in their achieve-
ments.
m.             I am getting old and feeble and my days are
numbered. Alas! I am ready to depart, for my days on earth
have been many-only-I wish I could see my friends in Italy
before I close my eyes in slumber everlasting. I am great grand-
mother now, for Carlo has chosen his companion of life and she
has born him a daughter. A sweet face is hers;he sent me the
picture in miniature and I cannot tire of looking at the soulful
face.-
face....Aunt Caroline is dead and I have assuned
the legacy of her papers. To me' they are dear relics of a womnan,
who came as near the angels, as human beings are capable. She
suffered much in early life and the perusal of her notes, written
in the agony of pain, has deeply affected me. But her strength
of mind at last overcame her weakness and the latter part of her
life passed in peace and happiness. Poor aunt! if she could but
have seen her son Eberhardt, before her death! This was her
wish by day and dream at night and her yearninge has no doubt
accelerated her dissolution. I think Eberhardt might well have
humored the wishes of his mother; but then, she would not le

DOLORES.                       149
him know, how much she longed to see him. If he does not come
of his own accord she used to say-my foolish prayer shall never
bring him. So she died and only an hour afterwards the sad news
of Eberhardt's death arrived. It was well she died beforehand,
for if not, the letter would have killed her with a shock.
 .                                          ......... .....A  number of years have passed without
my touching these papers. Now I have to chronicle a number
of changes. Carlo has risen to great fame in Italy; his daughter
Maria is wooed by one of the country's princes, the duke di Ga-
tana........
Further than this Charles could not read. The last name acted
on his feelings pretty much the same way, as the lighted match
on a keg of powder. It exploded him to such a degree, that he
had to collect himself considerably before he was able to reflect.
A film over his eye prevented him from seeing and he had to
wipe them before they were capable of exercising their functions.
At last when his power of vision returned, he hunted the place a
second time and-there it stood in plain letters: Duke di Gatana.
Could it be possible ? If a woman of his house had married the
Duke of Gatana-why, then-
He stopped thinking, to resume a reading, which had proved so
fascinating.
. "''............The report was true enough; two months ago
the wedding was celebrated with great splendor and Maria Fuchs
the painter's daughter, followed her noble husband to his princely
domains in Lombardy.
. - -.-M- - .... ....fary has written to me, the dear child. She
pretends to be perfectly happy and yet I feel a shadow of sadness
in her letter. They have been married now these five years and
yet no children have blessd their union. Perhaps the sadness or-
iginates from this. Indeed there is no perfect happiness beneath
the skies.
...            .At last!  An heiress has made her appear-
ai e i the ducal palace and time vein of sadness has disappeared
from Maria's letters. May the sun of bliss shine  ee for ever on the
worthy couple.
..   ...........In reading over the above wish I am struck
with the fickleness of fortune. Alas. I am old and decrepid!
Why could I not depart without seeing the loved ones in Italy
come to want and sorrow. Caroline died before the news of Fber-
hardt's death reached her-her niece is much less fortunate, for she
has to chronicle a destiny much worse than death. This terrible
political convulsions! If the duke had only taken Maria,s warn-
ing! But no, he loved his country better, than his ecrnfor oar


150                    DOLORES.
even his life and by assisting in an effort to restore its liberty put
both at stake. Fortune did not smile on his undertaking and
now the duke and his family wander as fugitives in a distant
land across the ocean. To us they could not come. Austria's
mighty hand would have reached the duke and then--what should
they have done here but mourn the downfall of a family once
rich and respected? Our house has sunk! Instead of the riches
of uncle Eberhardt, who died in foreign lands, the children of
Caroline seem to have inherited the evil seed springing from
the curses of his letter..Conrad her grandson has gone to America
and Jacob his brother by his vagaries is doing his best, to drag
the gray hair of his poor aunt with sorrow into the grave. Oh!
I am weary! Welcome death, how long wilt thou tarry to lead ne
through thy gates into the regions, where all the friends of early
days are dwelling. Come! oh come! to relieve me.
With this the manuscript closed; but Charles continued to gaze
at it, as if he could not free himself fron the influence 'of the
spirits, that seemed to breathe at him from the lines. He pon-
dered on the sad fate of both the writers on the decline of a fam-
ily, once rich and influental. He meditated on the strange fate,
that scattered its members here and there following their wander-
ings in his mind, visited the famous cities of Italy. Then all at
once the name of the duke, who married Carlo's daughter came
back to his memory and from that name it skipped unto the fair
companion of last night's walk. Dolores his kin, his dear, dear
cousin!
The thought was too exciting to suffer him in his room any.
longer. Seizing his hat and putting the manuscript into his
pocket, he rushed down stairs, to cross the hall and run through
the open housedoor and gate into the street. In vain his won d r-
ing mother cried to him, that breakfast was ready and that e
should not leave just then. Beckoning to her with a waving laid
he ran rather than walked towards the mansion. Never yet had
he traversed the distance in so short a time and when lie pushed
back the gate, he was a good deal out of breath, partly from ex-
citement, partly from the exertion of the run. He stopped to re-
cover himself and also to think about the next step he was going
to take. It was quite early yet, between the hours of seven and
eight and what would .the servants say about so early a call? le
felt somewhat like the hero of Cervantes and might have retraced
his steps to ,await a fitter hour, if fortunately the door of the

DOLORES.                       15
house had not opened at that moment, to admit to the porch the
lithe figure of the girl he was in search of. This induced him to
remain. He let her come down the stairs and wander a while on
the paths of the park; before he stepped up to her and made his
presence known. Dolores started at his call ,and seemed to
wonder much at his appearance at that hour. She was on the
point of asking him the reason; but a glance in his beaming eyes
convinced her, that something unusal had occured. So she in-
quired at once:
"What is it Charlie? What else have you discovered?"
"So you think that I have discovered something else, Dol?"
I judge it from your excited manners and the unusual hour of
your visit."
He did not reply at once but taking her hand led her to a seat;
the very same seat, where Mr. Fox had adopted her and promised
to take the lonely wanderer to his heart. She had told Charles
about that place and hour, but they were both too much excited
then, to think of it, he in in the eagerness of communicating his
discovery, she in the great suspense of waiting for his words.
"Set down Dolores" he resumed, pulling the faded manuscript
from his pocket and holding it up to her gaze. "Do you see these
papers?"
"The will of Eberhardt !" she exclaimed clasping her hands
and rising to her feet.
,"No, not exactly !" he said with a mysterious smile "it is a
will, though not the one my uncle hunts so eagerly. The gift, it
bestows upon our family, is much more precious, than gold or
precious stones."
"Dont teaze me, Charlie, but tell me, what you mean. Dont,
you see, that I am dying with suspense?"
He pressed her back upon the bench and laid the'inanuscript
into her hands.
"Read' Dol, just read !" he said. But no sooner had she laid
eyes upon the paper, when lie snatched it from her again and in
a jubilant voice exclaimed :
"No! dont read it Dol! dont read it or I shall in the mean time
get crazy. You want to know what treasure has been left to us?
Well listen: it is the best dearest, prettiest, little cousin in the


152                  DOLORES.

world and that cousin's name is Dolores di Gatana. Does my
little lady now understand, does she still wonder that Charlie
Fuchs got tipsy over the news and doesn't know, what he is
about?",
During these words he had seized both hands of the girl and
pulling her up, lifted her into his arms, whirling her around and
stealing kiss after kiss from her rosy lips. But this was really to
much for her. For the first time she tried to get angry at her
friend; and attempting a genuine frown, endeavored to disengage:
herself from his embrace.
"Charlie !" she said with pouting lips, "have you kept company
with your uncle in his attempts upon your father's cellar? I
never saw you so before and cannot say, I like it very much.
Please sober down and speak coherently, or I must refuse to lis-
ten to your queer expressions."
Her attempt at indignation merely increased Charlie's mirth,
Seizing her hand a second time in spite of her opposition and
then holding it a captive between both of his he said:
"I told you Dol, that I am tipsy; tipsy with joy, though not
with wine. Is it to be wondered that a young man loses his bal-
ance of mind, when such a dear sweet cousin falls unexpectedly
to his lot?"
"But I am at a loss to comprehend your meaning. You found
a cousin you say, and that cousin ...."
"Is nobody, but my good and loving Dol, my mate, my friend,
my fellow student, my everything. Here, read this diary; read
it I say, or you might berate me a second time and thereby ex-
haust my patience. You know I can stand much... "7
"Yes- very much" she said ironically, and then taking the paper
made a second attempt, to read the cause of Charlie's unusal
merriment..
"Not from the beginning !" he cried "it takes too long, to read
it all at present. Here let me show you; dont you see: Carlo-
that is Carlo Fuchs, the painter-has risen to great fame in Italy;
his daughter Maria is wooed by one of the country's princes, the
duke di Gatana.'2
"My father !" she exclaimed with glowing cheeks.
"Of course your father. Here- you.can read how you were

'DOLORES.                      153
born and how your father lost rank and wealth in' his rash at-
tempt to liberate his country."
"Why it is true, Charlie ; it is true ! and I am not without re-
lations then; besides my good and noble foster-father. I have
real kindred and you Charlie, are my cousins you my cousin?"
"Ah, who is tipsy now? he inquired with a-laugh, "Madam, I
fear you have kept my uncle company in his'attempts upon my
father's cellar. Please sober down and speak coherently or- ."-"''
She, interrupted him.
"Stop, Charlie, stop or I shall cry presently, and that too with-
out knowing whether it is with joy or sadness. Have pity upon
my dizzy head, Charlie."
"I will Dol, on one condition- You must come this very mo-
nent and help me break the happy news to my mother."
"But Charlie father will soon be up and miss me."
"We won't be long."
"And may I tell him too?"
"Of course Dol, though with a caution. I do not know, how
he would receive his new relations?"'
"Why yes, I am his kin as well as yours! Oh how this makes
ine happy ! to know that it-was after all the voice of nature, that
spoke in him for the little stranger; to know that I had real
claims upon his love and protection!"
She would perhaps have gone on with her exclamations, if he
had not stopped her, reminding her of the necessity of speed. So
she started leaning on his arm with double resignation or rather-
less restraint; for I doubt very much, whether the discovery of
their relationship had had the effect of increasing her affection
for the youth. She liked him well enough before, I venture to
suggest; only the natural diffidence of maidenhood prevented the
open manifestation of her feelings. Now he was her cousin and
to love a cousin is not only proper, but our bounden duty you
know. She may without great impropriety press his arm-es-
pecially if he falls as suddenly from the sky, as this one had done
-she may without reserve rest her slender form on his support-
ing arm; she may even smile on him and turn her head and look
so lovingly into his eyes. Is that not the fashion with cousins ?
She thinks it is and she is bound to use a privilege so new and
50 delightful. Now they approach the cottage. Thef walk no


154                  DOLORES.

longer; they fairly run and fluttering into the house like two gay
butterflies, surprise the family at breakfast. Dolores flies into
Mrs. Fuchs' arms and kisses her until she pants for breath and
Charles shakes his uncle's shoulder's until that worthy cries for
mercy and asks for something strong, to steady debilitated nerves.
Mr. Fuchs and Henry in their amazement lay down their knives
and forks, gazing with open mouths at the intruders and forget-
ting to swallow the inorsels, they had entered for promotion.
And finally the new comers attempt an explanation; but by their
exclamations and mutual interruptions and interpersed caresses
make matters rather worse than better. It takes a good while,
until the truth dawns upon the company;, but that point once
reached, the delight of all of them surpasses even their previous
bewilderment.   Even Henry betrays signs of satisfaction and
uncle Jacob, striking the table with his fist, so as to make the
dishes rattle, exclaims:
"iol mich der Kukuk! The deuce may take me, if I didn't
kiiow it yesterday. I have her grand-mother's likeness and when
you see it you will say, that it resembles her, like one egg does
the other."
"Yes, you did, uncle; but I claim the exclusive merit of this
discovery," Charles now remarked. "Without my literary incli-
nation and passion for old manuscripts we might have groped in
the dark for years to come. Therefore Dol is my cousin "per
excellence" and the rest of you come after me."
They all laughed and were just ready to settle down a little and
enjoy the presence of the newly found relative; but Dolores
would not consent to stay. She had only promised to remain a
minute she said and must surely go, to see Mr. Fox and make
him a participant in the glad tidings. To this however uncle
Jacob objected.
"I have your promise, to keep my secret" he admonished her.
"Nor shall I violate my promise ; for in stating my relation-
ship to him, I need not in the least allude to your secret."
Mr. and Mrs. Fuchs looked rather dubious.
"Dolores" the latter said "I have no doubt, that Mr. Fox will
rejoice at the fact, that his dear foster-daughter is also his niece;
but I am not quite so sure, whether he will be over anxious to re-
ceive us all in the capacity of kin."

DOLORES.                       155
"I know he will" Dolores replied with beaming eyes "and by
your doubt you wrong my good foster-father."
"May be I do, Dol; but I am almost certain, that Mrs. Fox will
see the matter in a different light and I fear, that instead of mend-
ing your position in the family, your communication will only
serve to make it worse."
The countenance of Dolores became sad and pensive.  She
studied a minute but after that resumed her former cheerfulness.
'You may be right, aunt" she said-she had always called Mrs.
Fuchs aunt; so the discovery did not alter the address-and [
have resolved, to leave it to Mr. Fox. I consider it my duty, to
communicate the news to him and he may then proceed, as he
thinks best. Indeed it would make me miserable, to know I held
concealed from him a matter of such importance."
CHAPTER XV.
NEWS BROUGHT HOME.
She bid them good bye, as if she feared to meet with more ob-
jections. Charlie's company was also refused and alone she re-
turned to her father's house. She found him in the garden, where
he enjoyed his regular walk before breakfast. He nodded when
he saw her passing through the gate.
"Been out so early, Dol?" lie inquired.
She nodded and folding her hands above his arm and keeping
step with him, replied:
"I have been out like the princesses of old, while the dew was
on the grass and the elfs were playing on the flowers. I have
seen them pa and they have told me wonderful tales more wond-
erful than any fairytale, my mother used to tell me."
"And may I know these wonderful tales, Dol?"
"Certainly, pa; that's what I came to see you for. A dutiful
daughter ought to have no secrets before her father."
"Spin away, then, at your yarn, Doll; the breakfast-bell will
ring in less than 15 minutes."
"I will, pa, but you must not interrupt me, or I may get con-
fused ."


156                 DOLORES.

"I'll try, not to, Doll."
"So listen then. Once upon a time there was a worthy burgher
in the land across the sea, iho had acompetence and some to
spare. His good wife bore him three sons, who were alike in
beauty and grace of person,but different in disposition. While
the oldest was quiet and sedatary in his habits, the youiest dis-
played a restlessness and roving spirit, which filled his mother's
heart with apprehension. The second brother was neither quiet
like the oldest, nor wild and restless like the youngest; but par-
taking a little of them both formed as' it were a mediating link
between them.
Now it happened, that in the neighbour's house a maiden of
great beauty held her court. She was not one of noble birth,
but also a burgher's daughter; still many noble lords apppeared,
to do her homage. However, she listened not to their insinuations,
but following the dictates of her parents and-as she thought-
of her own heart, she reached her hand in marriage to the burgher's
oldest son. The wedding was celebrated with great joy and ex-
ultation and the noise for a while deadened the cry of despair
which, issued from the youngest brother's mouth. He also loved
the handsome maiden; but battling with a diffidence 'so foreign
to his free and open nature, had never ventured to betray his
passion, till it was too late. Only when a bride, the lady learned
the nature of his feelings towards her and frowning on the man
that would destroy her peace, she bade him, never to repeat to
her words of such improper import. He left- her presence with
a curse upon his lips and yielding to the dictates of his fiery na-
ture fled from his native home, never to return, but to die an ex..
ile in a foreign land. The lady sympathized with his bereaved
parents and mourning with the mourners allowed a voice to
awake in her heart, which at first she construed as the offspring'
of pity. But the voice grew louder every day and when at last
it filled her bosom with stifled yearning for the fugitive, she
made the terrible discovery, that she had committed a sad mis-
take in chosing the oldest brother for her husband. She suffer-
ed long and painfully; but like a dutiful wife struggled and bat-
tled against her rebellious heart, until at last she had conquered
back the peace of former days.
Of the fugitive she heard but rarely. The'second brother had

DOLORES.                        157
gone to meet him in the wilderness of the new world, where for-
tune had heaped her choicest gifts upon the homeless wanderer,.
as if to compensate him for his first and fatal disappointment.
She would have liked to see him again, yet she consoled her-
self until her oldest son in imitation of his uncle, also deserted
his native town and crossing the Alps, ,settled in the fair land of
Italy. There his name. became noted amongst the famous and
skilled in art and his son achieved even a greater reputation than
his father. Princes vied to do him homage and one of them
sought and received in marriage the hand of the daughter of the
house. He took her to his princely dominions and prepared for
her the life of one that knows no sorrow, until all at once black
clouds arose in the distant sky, a fearful tempest broke loose
over their devoted heads. It swept away every trace of wealth
and comfort and finally landed them a pair of beggars on the
shores of .the new world. The name of that unfortunate noble-
man was di Gatana."
"Aix Doll, I comprehend ; you are...."
"No interruption pa! I have your promise."
" Exactly, child, go on then, Doll, go on!"
am proceeding pa. Let us return to the roving lover and
his brother, in order not to lose sight of them. The latter was
put as steward on the wretched man's estate, while the owner
hastened from one country to another, as if the furies were al-
lowing him no rest. Fearful tales were told about his occupa-
tion and pursuit and even now these legends live in the mouth
of the people on the coast."
"I see, Dol, you have heard the silly story; but...."
"Your promise, pa! We shall not quarrel on the merits of the
tale; but rather turn our eye upon the brother, who, in conse-
quence of the happy combinations of his traits of character,
strove and labored and came out victorious in his struggle with
the world. Changing his name of Fuchs into that of Fox, he
rose in wealth and consideration and became the founder of a
family, whose name has ever had clear wooing throughout the
state of Maine. His descendents were all worthy men ; but none
of them reached in goodness, cleverness and kindness of heart,
the present patriarch of Foxvile, my good, my precious father."
It had cost Mr. Fox much exertion, to listen to that ; but fin-


158                     DOLORES.
ished or not finished he was bound not to let the story proceed,
without throwing in a word himself. Stopping short' and hold-
ing Dolores at arms' length before his eyes, as if he wanted to
get a good look at her, he cried:
"Now, Miss, that's more than enough. Promise or no pro-
mise, I mean to have my saying too. Does the vixen know, that
she completely confused my head with her long stories ? I kind
of guess the meaning of that gossip and yet I must confess I
hardly know....
He looked so comical with his dubious"countenance, that Dol-
ores could uot help laughing.
"Let me perform the task of solving the mystery for you, pa,"
she said. "I'll state it in the simple form of a mathematical pro-
blem. Now pa, do pay attention: when two brothers have child-_
ren, what relation do the latter sustain to one another?"
" Why that of cousins, of course, yon vixen."
"And the childrens' children ?"
"Are cousins still, though in the second degree."
"And their children again ?"
"Cousins, Dol, nothing but cousins in a homeopathic fashion."
"Then, worthy Sir, allow me to present to your consideration,
your cousin Dolores di Gatana."
A moment he stared at her. Then nodding eagerly.he dried:
"That is the kernel of the nut;.indeed it is. And so my good,
my darling daughter has all at once become a distant cousin in
the fourth degree. Dol, I protest against that change."
His voice showed a queer mixture of joy and sadness and it is
likely, that he merely spoke at random, to prevent himself from,
falling a victim of the deep emotion, which had seized him. But
Dolores took it differently. Her excited mind had merely heard
the melancholy touch in her companion's voice and throwing her-
self into his arms with an unexpected vehemence, that almost
made him stagger, she said:
"No pa, there must not be a change from that. I want to re-
main your loving dutiful daughter. Yet I can hardly tell, how
much I was delighted, to know, that you and I are kin; for it ex-
plains to me, why you and I were drawn together from the start.
Moreover it lightens a little the burden, under which a consci-
ousness of endless obligation to my benefactor made me stagger.

DOLORES.                       159
I am your cousin now, you see and cousins have a legal claim of
mutual protection."
"I see from your face, that you are joking Dol; else I might
feel inclined to lecture you the first time since our connection.
You speak of obligation, while in reality I am your everlasting
debtor for all the rays of happiness, which ever since have lit my
loneliness and sadness."
"Well, ,pa, I say nothing more; let us exchange receipted bills
and then commence a new account."
"Agreed Dol, but there is the breakfast-bell. Come let us rap-
idly inform our sovereign Lady. I ain very curious to know, how
she receives the news and whether it-will make the flowers spring.
up within her frosty heart."
Dolores started.
"Pa" she suddenly cried, stopping him short. "Your words
remind Inc of the fact, that you interrupted my story and that I
never finished it."
"True Dol, but I know, the most important part, and can wait
for the end till after breakfast."
The most important, pa? Iow do you know that? Indeed I
must detain you even at the risk, of letting the coffee get cold."
"Well child, hurry then. I have spoiled you, I know and you
must have your way."
"Exactly pa; I '11 not engage you longer than a minute. The
lady had another son, besides the one, that went to Italy, He
stayed at home and marrying a maiden of his native, town, raised
a family and struggled to maintain the ancient glory of the house.
But it was all in vain, the means and the influence of the family
dwindled from generation to generation and at last the old home-
stead had to be sold. Before this happened, one of the two
brother's, representing the family at present, in consequence of a
quarrel stirred by his younger brother; left his native town and
turning his steps towards the great republic of the West, settled
in the little town of Foxville. There....
"But Dol that goes beyond the bounds of reality. Your story
is more romantic than the wildest fairytale .. ."
Mr. Fox said this with more excitement than he had even I
manifested at the first discovery, and that is easily explained. A
man is more exposed to the danger of intoxication at the second


160                     DOLORES.
bottle than the first one and Dolores construed her father's ex-
citement in that way.
"That is not my fault, pa", she said shrugging her shoulders
and dragging him towards the house "but you haven't told me
yet, what you think about the other relations."
"Relations, yes relations" Mr. Fox exclaimed allowing his head
to rise and fall in regular intervals. They are all my relations
and glad am I of it, of course, for honester people than they
aint to be found in the United States."
"There! I thought so !" Dol exclaimed, her face bearing an
expression of triumph.
"What, Dol?"
"That you would'nt hesitate to acknowledge our good friends
as your k in."i
"Ofcourse I don't, Dol; you did me but justice in that Sul)-
position."
"But Mrs. Fuehs had one too, pa. She thinks Mrs. Fox
would'nt be quite so delighted at the change as I."
His countenance became thoughtful.
"She may be right, Dol," he said with a nod, "but .that cannot
alter my part in the programme. I am bound to inform my fam-
ily of their new acquisitions and the sooner they receive the in-
formation, the better it will be. But, child, oncmore question,
before we enter. Where did you all at once collect so much in
formations. Did you turn somnambulist or establish e regular
telegraph line with beings from a higher sphere?"
"Not at all, pa. My channel is rather duty and commonplace.
A brother of our Mr. Fuchs suddenly last night made his appear-
ance at his brother's door and after eating and drinking like a
hero, announced himself as Mr. Jacob Fuchs beyond the sea the
knight without much fear but not without much love of anything
that can administer unto the wants of the stomach. ..."
"A brother of Mr. Fuchs, you say? Why, wonder over wonder!
If this week continues, as it has commenced, it will surely become
the most momentuous one of my life."
Is Saul amongst the prophets? Poor Mr. Fox! .Does an i-
ward voice whisper to you of coming evils? Does the traitor's
wicked purpose throw its shadow ahead upon your path?

DOLORES.                       161
Without further remarks they stepped into the house. Mrs.
Fox and the children were already engaged at their meal.
"Caroline, you must excuse our tardiness" Mr. Fox addressed
his wife, "on account of very strange discoveries I have made.
I would ask you to guess their nature, if I were not convinced
beforehand, that you would never find out."
A guilty conscience is easily alarmed. Mrs. Fox was conceal-
ing things from her husband and the thought that her conduct
was very natural. She grew pale and even had to eize the table
for support. Mr. Fox observed her confusion. He nodded
pleasantly and said:
"Well, Caroline, you seem to have an idea after all. You get
excited, I notice, and well you may, for I did not fare any better."
She trembled worse than before, but her lips remained closed.
"Why, what is the matter, Madame." Fox inquired, "you sure-
ly are getting nervous. I never knew that you took so much in-
terest in Dolores,"
"Dolores."  Mrs. Fox breathed more freely. Then her h us.
band did not allude to her, and yet she had nearly betrayed her-
self. For a moment she hated the girl as much as ever.
"Dolores," she gasped, betraying in her features the nature of
her feelings. "What of her? I expected from your excited mien,
that some accident, indeed I hardly know....I thought...."
"No, no, Caroline," he answered more softly than he had been
wont to speak to her lately. "Rest easy as to that. I do not
know of any accidents whatever. Who should have met with
one? We are all present excepting Dick and he ."
Mr Fox left the sentence unfinished; but his face revealed the
thought, which his lips had refused  to communicate.  His
brow became clouded and his lips compressed, thereby bestowing
upon his face the expression of energy and decision, which we
generally missed in it.
If Mr. Fox expected to be interrogated by his wife, he was mis-
taken. She had learned that her husband's discoveries did not
relate to her, but to the girl, whom at best, she had regarded
with indifference, she abstained from all further manifestations
of ' uriosity.
Not so Lucy. We have much neglected that young lady ii our
or. She also had grown and developed; but their had beein


f

162

DOLORES.

hardly any change in the character of her appearance. There
were the same gentle features, the same blue eyes and   yellow
curls. The bloom on lips and cheeks had deepened, and her form
was approaching the embonpoint, which even her childhood had
predicted and which ceases to be a virtue, as soon as it passes a
certain limit. This limit Lucy had not reached; she still moved
with grace and ease, embodying the idea of what is called a
"sweet girl". She now was curious to know the news of her
father, because they concerned her friend Dolores. Ever since
her mother had ceased to restrict the intercourse of the girls, a
fast friendship had sprung up between them, in spite of the dif-
ference of their character and intellect. While Dolores with her
keen penetration and energy formed the positive pole, Lucy, with
her gentle and yielding disposition, supplied the negative. She
moved as it were planet-like around her sun, receiving from it
light and warmth. Still, unlike the relation between sun and
earth, that of the girl showed no seasons. There was no heat, no
drought, no icy coldness; but the current of their friendship ran
on with even tenor. Lucy not only loved Dolores; she also look-
ed up to her; she respected, admired and even worshipped her,
and anything concerning her idol was of course received with
lively interest. So taking up her father's interrupted sentence,
she said:
"And he, is not likely to meet with accidents. Like a cat he
always lights upon his feet in case of a fall."
"You don't flatter your brother," Mrs. Fox said with a touch
of displeasure.
"Nor is that at all necessary," Mr. Fox suggested speaking rap-
idly. "If he had been flattered less, he would fare better now
than he does."
Lucy saw the danger of an altercation. To avoid it, she ex-
claimed:
"But the news, father, the news! It is hardly fair to hold them
out in prospect, and then refuse to make them known."
"True, child," Mr. Fox exclaimed, his face brightening with
the recollection of Dol's communications. "I am in duty bound,
to let the cat out of the bag."
"But I don't want a cat, father; you know I don't like cats."
"But supposing, I substitute a cousin for the cat?"

DOLORES.

163

"A cousin, pa: what do you mean?"
"A bran new cousin, child, and what a cousin."
"Wouldn't yon like to have a cousin Lucy?"
"Why yes, I would ; but that is an idle wish, for it will never
be realized and I am still at a loss, to comprehend, what you are
driving at."
"Well, Lucy didn't I tell you plainly, that I have found a
cousin for you? How would you fancy Dol for one?"
"I should be delighted with her, pa."
"Well take her then; she is your-cousin. Caroline what do
you think?. The foster-daughter, who entered our house a stranger
to shed light and sunshine over it, has turned out a relative, a real
relative."
"Pa, you are joking," Lucy answered for her mother.
"No indeed, I am in dead earnest. Her mother descends from
a brother of our ancestor. She is a cousin in good faith, though
not in the first degree."
Lucy was delighted. She rose and embraced her new relation
and kissing her tenderly, exclaimed:
"Oh, I am so glad, I have a cousin, a real life cousin and better
still, I have my Dol for one."
Dolores smiled.
"I don't know whether I ought to feel flattered or not," she
said. "You seem very willing, to renounce the sister,just to gain
a distant cousin."
"Dol. shame on you" she cried "you know I didn't mean it
that way. I love you doubly now, once as a sister and secondly
as a cousin. Indeed I shall have my heart so full of you, that I
must build an addition to,"
While the girls laughed at this remark, Mrs. Fox inquired:
"That is quite a romance, Sir: may I ask you where you got
the material for the plot?".
"Yes. madam' he replied somewhat vexed at her derisive tone
'you can be furnished with the source as well as with the proof.
It does exist in writings of the most conclusive character, and
since you seem to be so much delighted at this acquisition, [reel
inclined to intimate, that there is a certain prospect of a further
increase of our stock."
"How fortunate for you, that claims to be a philanthropist.


164                     DOLORES.
We on the other hand will suffer from the access, since by a
simple rule of arithmetic the quotient is reduced in just propor-
tion to the increase of the divisor."
"No danger madam, the heart is like the magnet; the greater
the weight it carries, the greater also its strength. But ain't you
anxious to learn the other names ?"
"Ladies are decried as being curious; a denial on my part would
therefore awail me nothing."
"That,s what I call an unconditional surrender. Now, if I tell
you, that the family name of Dol's mother was Fuchs, can you
guess the balance?"
Mrs. Fox started.
"Edward" she said with dignity "if you confine your joke to
Dolores, it can be borne, because. it does not alter facts; but if
you go beyond this and threaten to draw your factory hands into
the family circle, I must decidedly object."
I shall draw nobody in, that has no business there, Caroline;
but you don't expect me to be able to undo established facts."
'"And these facts: will you have the kindness to enlighten me
as to their nature?"
"Of course I will" Mr. Fox replied and then proceeded to state
briefly the history of. the family, from which his own had sprung.
Mrs. Fox could not help being impressed with the correctness of
the statements; but yet her aristocratic mind rebelled against the
thought of receiving on terms of intimacy a family, who thus far
had been counted amongst the hands employed by her husband
in his factory.
"And what-what does Mr. Fuchs think of this?" she inquired
addressing herself to the girl, who had also had the presumption
of pressing her claims upon her delicately organized mind..
"He was loth to have me tell Mr. Fox at all." Dolores replied
with emphasis.
"And why did you see fit, to disobey his wishes?"
"Because I felt unwilling to keep, so important a matter from
his knowledge. Fear nothing however, madam; if you take no
measures to open connections with the family they on their part,
will be very slow, to encroach on you."
"That shows, that Mlr. Fuchs and his wife are very sensible
people in their way. They know that we in our position can neve1

DOLORES..                       165
think of receiving them on terms of equality and therefore have.
the good sense, to preserve the proper distance- I do sincerly
hope, Mr. Fox, that you will not suffer yourself to be surpassed
by them in their sense of what is proper."
Having said this, she arose and dropping a distant courtesy,
withdrew from the room.
"I thought that much" Mr. Fox remarked with a look of under-
standing at Dolores "and can therefore hardly say, that I am die.
appointed. She may have her pleasure: if she refuses to recog-
nlize established facts, she may take the consequences."
"But pa," Dolores remnonstrated. "I hardly think, that you
would do Mr. and Mrs. Fuchs a favor by drawing them forcibly
into your house. They would not only derive no pleasure from
such a course ; but actually suffer from manifestations of neglect
or contempt, with which Mrs. Fox might hardly be sparing."
Mr. Fox reflected a while.
"You are right Dol" he said at last, I shall not force matters,
but leave everything to time and circumstances. Still as for my-
self, I cannot resist the temptation to drop in at the cottage to
shake hands with cousin Conrad and to see the fellow from across
the ocean. Good bye children; I shall be back before the hour
of dinner.
CHAPTER XVI.
A CRISIS APROACHING.
"Captain Butler has arrived and cast anchor in the cemetery"
George cried to Wood the same morning, rushing into the office
with excited mien and trying to recover breath. "I have nearly
run myself to death from the wish of impartighg the news as early
as possible."
"And by your haste and excitement you have drawn the atten-
tion of spies. upon your movements. George, can you never
learn, that selfcontrol is the first indispensable duty of any man,
that wishes to rise above his fellow beings?"
"To preach is easier, than to practise."
"I practise what I preach, Never through all this time, hive
you seen me, to give Away to passion in such a measure, as to al

/
/ -~


166                   DOLORES.

low the world an insight in my schemes. But that is idle now
I may as well proceed to give you further instructions. When
did the brigg arrive?"
"After midnight."
"Then by this evening, the boxes will all be in the cave.
George have a boat ready by ten'o'clock, to take us there; but
let nobody but you a nd me know of our errand."
"I will not, Sir."
"One of the drafts, I was expecting, has come this morning, the
other may be here by to-day's mail. We cannot act before it is
in our hands. It would not do, to leave a sum of $6000.00 be-
hind us, if we can secure it by a little waiting."
"But waiting may endanger all.".
"Very true, still I cannot bear the thought, of leaving such a
sum in his clutches, I am not satisfied with crippling him: I
want his ruin."
George looked at him.
"Richard" he said "with your permission I should like to ask
a question : what makes you hate this man so much?"
Wood shook his head.
"I would rather not inform you. It has nothing to do with
our project and if you get your stipulated sum, that is all you can
in reason, ask."
George did not answer.
"Will you please go and see, whether the mail has come?" Wood-
resumed. "In case the letter in question has arrived, we need
hesitate no longer but may fix the hour the coming night. What
do you think?"
"Nothing at all, Sir, I leave it all to you. I'll run to the office
now and see whether the mail is in."
He left and 10 minutes afterwards returned with a letter, swing-
ing it triumphantly in his hand. It bore the stamp of B. and
Wood's face was lit with an ugly scowl, when he said:
"That's the right one. I thought it would come to-day. That
puts a couple of thousands more in the pocket of each of us."
"Is there anything else to be done during the day?"
"No Sir; only don't fail, to be at the coast this evening at eight
o' clock."
"I thought you told me ten before-"

DOLORES.                       167
I did, but it strikes me, that we go so late, too great a portion
of the night would be consumed by the visit. Indeed if it were
not for the papers, I want the captain to sign, the visit would be
altogether unnecessary."
"But supposing you visit him during the day: wouldn't you in
that instance get your receipt as well?"
"I cannot get away during the day, George," the superinten-
dent replied with a slight embarrassment.
"There are several things, which need my presence, and in
fact....
"And what do you think of my going?"
"It would; do well enough, excepting the possibility of the cap-
tain's refusal. Having once refused you, he might become sus-
picious and refuse me as well. On the whole, I think, it will be
best to go at eight o'clock."
"Very well, Sir, and when do you propose to settle our ac-
counts ?"
Wood smiled an ugly smile.
"Why, Georgie, what a careful mode of doing business you
hav e adopted all at once. You never before evinced such zeal in
straightening up accounts."
"Perhaps I didn't Sir in the service of Mr. Fox; but noiy, you
know, I am minding my own business."
"Exactly George, nor do I blame you. I shall divide with you
before we start on our errand. In fact we might proceed at once,
only Mr. Fox might come in the meantime and want to see the
letters."
"The deuce! if he should take it in his head to appropriate
them."
"That is not likely as he is not in the habit of doing so. In
case he sees the money, he may desire me to settle at once the
arrears of the laborers. In that I can accomodate him, com-
mencing with the liquidation of your account and mine. If that
should take all the money who could complain?"
Wood laughed at his remark, and George followed suit. All
at once however, they noticed Mr, Fox through the office-window
and sobering down to their daily routine, awaited his appearance.
He was in a very good humor, perhaps th result of the visit
he had just paid at the cottage; at any rate, Mir. Wood had not


168                     DOLORES.
seen him so gay for a good while. Mr. Fox was so easily pleased
that the manager found no difficulty in securing his approval to
various propositions he offered as well as his endorsement on the
drafts in question necessary for collection.
"Just as you please, Richard," he said, "just as you please.
We are over our hard spell now, and every thing is prosperous.
With due respect to your talents, don't you think that I deserve
a little credit for the way I managed things?"
"Of course I do, Edward and you will recollect, that I was the
first to acknowledge my mistake and your better judgment. You
managed admirably.",
"Yes, yes, Richard, I did tolerably well; but then I must not
forget, that it is chiefly due to ........ Tut, tut ! what am I gos-
sipping about? I think my mind is wandering this morning. It
would'nt be so very strange after all the adventures I met with.
I tell you, Richard,-no I won't tell you either, at least not now.
I must first sober down a little, to guard against my talking non-
sense and thereby losing the trifle of respect I have secured from
you for clever management."
With this he hastened from the room, leaving the two plotters
at a loss to comprehend him.
" What does that mean?" George inquired. "He talks as if he
had got tipsy early in the morning."
"It isn't that - he never drinks anything before his dinner."
"Some unexpected pleasure then; but of what sort ?"-.
"Who cares ? It is enough for us, that his excitement greatly
facilitates our measures. I venture to say, the dunce will not re-
turn to-day, and we may as well divide our spoils at once.  Are
you satisfied regarding our last settlement?"
"Certainly, Richard; it was very satisfactory."
"So much the better. Now in regard to these checks, they are
not equal, one calling for the payment of $6,000, or the other for
that of five : In case I give you the larger check: Will you pay
ne the difference in cash?"
"Why, no Mr. Wood; I should not like to do that?"
"Not do it, George?" the other inquired somewhat astonished
"is not the note endorsed ?"
"It is Sir."
"Docs that not make it as good as cash?"

DOLORES.                        169
"It does, to any one, who has a chance of collecting it."
"Why, George, you have the time."
"Not if you want me to start for P. without delay."
"0 you will have time, to stop long enough in town, to cash it."
"But they might hesitate, to trust me in the Bank with such a
sum. You know. I never drew money before."
"But George: that objection is just as applicable to the smaller
check."
"It is Sir and that is the reason, why I am forced to refuse the
'acceptance of either."
Woods face darkened.
"You get all at once very particular" he said "but if you think,
that I shall humor such -notions, you are much mistaken. You
say' you refuse the smaller draft and $500.00 in cash?"
"I do, Sir !"
"But you forget that by your obstinacy you run the risk of get-
ting nothing."
"No greater risk than you, Sir. , You may rest assured Mr.
Wood, that I should take care in such a case, to place the money
at a safe distance from your grasp."
Wood looked at his accomplice with undisguised amazement.
This was the first instance, where the lad had shown any will of
his own and when the veiled menace  betrayal reached his ears,
he did not know, whether he could trust them. Still George was
right and had Wood completely at his mercy. How fortunate
that the superintendent had not intrusted his other secret to the
fellow as well! Thanks to his prudence, that portion of th lpro-
gramme was safe at least. But as to. the money question, Wood
saw no way of forcing George into compulsion and with that sag -
acity and rapid penetration, so peculiar to his character, he saw
at once, that it would come with a better grace, to yield at once
than to let the final consent appear as the result of further menaces.
"George" he said all at once, changing the nature of =his voica
and forcing himself into, a smile. "I make you my compliment.
You are fast reaching your maturity and exact your claims from
me with a sharpness, which allows little doubt of your capacity
to fo.rce your purpose. If you refuse the draft, I shall of course
be forced to pay your share in cash, although that will necessitate
miy staying here another day."


170                     DOLORES.
"Exactly Sir, and I like that arrangement better; because it
gives me more time, to reach P."
More time to ruin and betray me, or at least to discover my
trail: Mr. Wood thought to himself. But wait, I shall take mea.
sures, to counteract all treacherous mines that you may spring on
me.
"Why, that is true" he said loudly, stooping to gn open safe
and taking from it a large number of $100 notes. "Here George
is your money and we are quit now-are we niot?"
"Exactly, Sir !"
"And you are satisfied?"
"Fully so."
"And you agree to take the information to the revenue-officers?"
'I shall faithfully execute your commission."
"Very well, George. I am compelled to rely upon your pro-
mise. I would rather have you act from motives of attachment
than of fear; but this much I say: woe to you, if you betray the
trust I put in you."
George's face blanched a little, but collecting himself, he .said:
"Fear nothing, sir, I shall not dissappoint you."
'So much the better for you. I'll have to leave you now, and-
may be absent for an hour or two. Please have an eye to things,
for I must not become guilty of neglect during the waning hours
of our administration."
He left the office and after arranging his attire, took the road
to the mansion. On arriving there, he found that Mr. Fox had
gone to the parsonage with the girls, and that Mrs. Fox alone
was at home. This suited his purpose, and sending his card to,
her, he stepped into the parlor, to await her coming. Throwing
himself into an arm-chair, he gave himself up to the host of tu-
multuous thoughts, that were crowding through his brain.  His
plans had reached a climax; what he had hoped and worked and
struggled for, was on the point of becoming a reality. Ah! it
was well! for he felt that his mind could not have borne much
longer, the heavy strain upon it. Fear and hope and glorious ex-
pectation, were struggling for the mastership within his breast,
and he found the greatest difficulty in preserving the outward
calmness, that was so indispensable, to secure success. .

DOLORES.                       171
When Mrs. Fox entered the room, he sprang up and approach-
ed her, with a haste, that startled her.
"What is the matter, Richard," she said, blushing at the fervor
with which he carried her hand to his lips,"you seem ver,- much
excited ?"
"No wonder, Caroline. The hour has come, when I sh 11 take
you with me, as the precious jewel which the owner hid s from
the vulgar gaze of the curious crowd,"
Her hand quivered in his. Laying the other that was fiee up-
on her bosom, she replied:
"What do you mean, Richard? Must I go, with you; must I
leave the home of my' children? Much as I love you, I tremble
at the thought."
"And yet you have to learn to face it ; for I have chosen the
coming night for'the time of our flight."
"Impossible!" she cried, "I cannot leave so quickly: why did
you not give me longer warning?"
rFroi motives of affection, Caroline. I knew that you would
worry all the time, and perhaps by worrying betray our secret.
Besides you knew that it would come to this, and if you really
love -me, as you say you do, you will without much difficulty, sue -
teed in severing such bonds as tie you to this house."
"And my dear, poor children-am I never to see them any
more ?"
"Not for the present Caroline. What future years may have
in store, we do not know and it would be idle to make conjectures.
Come now, dear Caroline, take- courage: you ought to delight in
this opportunity of showing your love to me."
"You cannot doubt that love Richard, after so many proofs,
given at the coat of my tranquility of mind. But what do you
propose to do?"
"I shall be at the gate at 12 o'clock, to receive you and conduct
you to the buggy, which will be waiting in the neighborhood.
We shall at once drive to the station and be in time to take the
early train for the border. Once in Canada we shall finsl little dif-
iculty in concealing our trail and after a while take the steamer
to Liverpool. In the fair regions of the old world you will soon
forget the fetters, which tied you to the new one and in the arms
of your Richard live a life of leepfelt happiness."


I

172

DOLORES.

"And am I to take nothing with me?"
"Yes Caroline. Your departure to the city is near at hand and
I have been thinking, that you might pack a trunk and send it to
Adam's Express, pretending that it holds your winter-dresses,
which need attention at the milliner's hand. You need not mark
the trunk, but just send word by John, that you will call at the
office to-morrow, to give directions. In that way I think you may
without suspicion take your most valuable wardrobe along."
"Well I will follow your advise" she answered with a sigh,
"and God may grant-ah Richard I do not dare to call on Him
any more."
She shuddered and buried her face in her nands.
"Not so, my love" he pleaded with his most alluring tones and
soothing and consoling the conscious stricken woman, gradually
succeeded in restoring to all appearances her peace of mind.' En
joining upon her the necessity of caution and firmness, he left.her
to return to the office and there watch the movements of his ae-
complice, whose conduct had created serious misgivings in his
mind.
Mrs. Fox in the mean time had left the parlor and returned to
her room, where she made preparations, to pack such articles of
dress as her great travelling ,trunk would hold and as could be
collected in a hurry. To say that she began the work with an
easy heart, would do her injustice. On the contrary she took the
various garments from the wardrobes, as if they had keen solid
iron instead af the light and airy fabrics which they really were.
Many a tear started from her eyes and running across her cheek
and falling to the ground unheeded. He thoughts seemed to
wander far away, judging from the absent look of her eyes. All
at once however she started like one whose heart had been pierced
by a bullet: the dress she held slipped from her fingers and her
whole frame trembled as if in fever.
What was the matter?
The door had creaked on the hinges, and Lucy's voice had ex-
claimed in great surprise:
"Oh! mother, what is that? Moving already? I declare, you
pack your things for going to the city, do you not?"
That was the cause of Mrs. Fox'es sudden start.  She could
not force herself to answer her daughter's question, but nodding

DOLORES.

173

merely with her head bent low to store the dress away, she pre-
tended to be very busy at the task.
Lucy laughed.
"Too busy, to reply. I really think, that you have caught the
working fever from Dolores. But mother, don't you fear, that
you'll spoil Susan?"
The name of Dolores, had nerved Mrs. Fox sufficiently to face
her daughter's loving glances. "She will remain" she thought,
"and nobody will miss me, except perhaps poor Dick, who will
have a hard time, to stand the flood of reprimand and admonition.
But I do not give him up altogether; Richard hinted at a possi-
bility of meeting him again. ...
Again Lucy broke in upon her train of thoughts."
"Why, mother, are you sick? I never saw you so-so taciturn.
I hope I have not offended you?"
Mrs. Fox'es heart was touched by this appeal. Tears started
to her eyes and embracing her daughter with a fervor, which
was even stranger to the girl, than the reserve of before, she
said with streaming eyes:
"You offend me, Lucy ? No never, never did you in the least
offend me. .You were always the very pattern of a good and du--
tiful daughter."
"But, mother, I see no reason to cry at that. I for my part am
glad to have you tfiink and say so: why then do you talk, as if
you meant.to leave me, never to return?"
Mrs. Fox was frightened :
"Foolish child, what do you talk about?" she said, casting a
shy glance around the room. "Did I lead you, to entertain such
silly thoughts?"
"No mother; I only mean, you talk, so serious, as if you in-
tended taking leave for ever."
Mrs. Fox was deeply impressed.
"We are mortal', she said gloomily, "and nobody knows, how
soon we may be called from one another, never to meet again on
earth. Lucy, would you-would you-in such a, case-sometimes
think of me ?"
"You know I would mother; tho' I really think, that I have as
much right to think of dying, as you. There is something the
matter with you, mother and you had better lie on -your lounge


174                    DOLORES.
and rest, instead of packing these dresses. We are hot going to-
morrow, you know, and you'll find plenty time yet."
"We are not going, but the trunk is. I want to have  .. the
milliner. ... make some alterations...."
Lucy shook her head.
"Mother, follow my advise and desist from working this to-day
.I do not see..."
This time, Mrs. Fox interrupted her sharply. She saw no other
way to withstand the flood of emotions awakened bp her daught-
er's gentle pleadings.
"That is enough, Lucy" she said. I understand your motives,
but your contradiction worries me and you will oblige me by
desisting. Indeed I can attend much better to this work when I
am by myself. So go to your room, until I call you or send for-
you."~
Lucy had listened to these words with"increasing sadness. Her,
mother's tenderness had for. a while awakened the hope in her,
that hereafter her mother would take her nearer to her heart, but
now she was at once and cruelly undeceived. The animation in
her face died away, her smile faded, and a large tear dropping
from her eye, slowly rolled across the cheek to fall unto the floor.
Thus she stood for half a minute, then heaving a deep sigh, she
turned and was on the point of leaving the room, when her moth-
er's voice stopped her.
"Lucy !"
When she turned, she saw Mrs. Fox with outstretched arms,
ready to receive and fold her to her heart. Her name had been
uttered with so much longing, such deep and yearning love, that
Lucy felt like one stupified and instead of throwing herself at once
into her mother's arms stood like one totally bewildered. But.
Mrs. Fox did not wait for the return of her composure ; hasten-
ing towards her, she flung her arms around her neck and laying
her head upon her shonlder, cried' bitterly a~s if her heart would
break. Lucy several times endeavored to speak to her, to sooth
her grief and fathom its cause; but Mrs. Fox stopped her every
time with so much earnestness, that the poor girl saw no remedy,
but to lead her to a lounge and there resting her had against her
own shoulder, suffer her to try~ herself to rest. Nor was she mis-

DOLORES.                       175
taken. Quicker than Lucy has expected Mrs. Fox arose to a sit.
ting posture and drying her tears remarked:-
"There, Lucy, that will do. This has been in Ine for a long
while and my heart being full to overflowing, the flood of tears.
could no longer be restrained. It was well, my child, that I had
no witness of my weakness, but you, of course you will not ex-
pose your mother's silly conduct."
"Of course, mother: but why?"
"I have a second favor, to ask you Lucy: please abstain from
questions; the time will soon arrive when you will understand me
without interpretation"
"I will mother, to please you: will you abstain from exhausting
yor strength still further by attending to this unaccustomed
labor?"atedn                                 1ailtld
-'It must be done, Lucy and that at once. Come be a ood gi
now and bother me no longer with questions and objections Go
wt a ouraroom, or play and work with Dolores. I shall be done
Thn a  ur obdtene twilljoin you for the balance of the day."
To secure obedience to her wishes she gently forced the girl
toarsh the ooklg and embracing her at every step. On
the threshold shetge once more with fervent tenderness into
her eyes, then turning, closed and-locked the door, leaving Lucy
in1 a strange confusion of-  and  -  olaigLc
iastagcofsoofjoyan      sorrow and 'Wonderment at the'
possible cause of all these strange phenomena.
Meanwhile Mr. Wood was walking fast, to r  h
meditated and thought, that in dividing his spoils with George
so early, had committed a mistake. Where was his grant
the faithful execution of his contract, the garanteeagantee for
mediate betrayal? He thought of this too late but while h
trembled at the possibility of a failure of his plans  e
quence, ht hoped on the other hand, that fear would be a factor
of sufficient power in the young man's calculation, to prevent him
rom committing treason, even if he should fail to execute his
revenue ofier    h   plicating papers into the hands of the
rvneofficers.
But Wood must even guard against this latter emergency  So
sitting down he penned and sealed a letter, which was addessed
to the above officers, giving such information, as would
surely lead to the apprehension of the guilty party, even in cas

0


A

176

DOLORES.

George had failed to deliver his papers in person. This letter he
placed in his pocket, intending to drop it as soon as their flight
would have proceeded sufficiently for to make it safe. The balance
of the afternoon he spent in superintending the various departe-
ments of the factory and those, who saw the calm indifference
lying on his countenance, the sharpness, with which he reprim-
anted slight mistakes, the orders, which he gave, affecting, the
work of weeks, would have have hardly dreamed, that this man
stood on the point not only of ruining his employer's business
character, but also his social and moral position. Collecting all
his strengbt-of mind for one last great effort, he seemed to all
appearances as calm as the calmest and most unconcerned of all
the men in his principal's employ.
CHAPTER XVII.
A FAILURE.
"There goes a trunk from the mansion" uncle Jacob addressed
Mrs. Fuchs and Henry, who since hi's relative's arrival could not
be persuaded to visit the factory and was stoutly backed in his
obstinacy by that worthy relative. "There goes a trunk" the
latter said; observing John with a springwagon, on which a large
trunk was being taken away "and if you don't hurry Sister, you
won't have the satisfaction, of lowering Mrs. Fox' pride a peg or
two."
"And how should I accomplish that, Jacob?"
"Of course by paying her a visit in your new capacity of
cousin."
'In order to give her a chance of humbling me so low, that even
dogs would refuse a piece of bread from my hand: no indeed!
you wont catch me, to play such silly tricks."
'P'shaw fiddlesticks! you are over' sensitive. Only let me find
the testament, and you'll see me handle these fancy people after
my own fashion. You are all overdelicate, excepting Henry, who
is lad according to my heart. Just let me get hold of the last
will, I'm hunting and I'll show you, what I mean by rewarding
aid and sympathy."

DOLORES.

177

In this way uncle Jacob had spent the greater part of the day.
During the absence of Conrad and Charles he tried the patience
f his sister-in-law and when she at last began, to show signs of
exhaustion of that useful virtue, he addressed himself to Henry
and in him not only found a nevertiring listener but also-and
that was more--a person willing to enter with him on such mea-
sures, fair or foul, and spin such intrigues, as might be necessary
to attain his purpose.
Uncle Jacob was an everlasting talker, but the quality of his
conversation was not at all in keeping with its quantity.. Per-
haps that accounts for his voluminousness, and he acted on the
principle, a man always should give a good measure of an inferior
article; while we find another explanation in the circumstance,
that uncle Jacob had managed to secure a key for his brother's
winec-ellar aid that he took good care, to keep his lips well mois
tened.
At the time of the above remark, Jacob' had already paid fre-
quent visits to the cellar, without however so far destroying the
equilibrium which is necessary, to carry a person with decorum
through his daily routine.  Still Mrs. Fuchs was afraid, that
further visits would have.that undesirable effect and she thought
proper to remind uncle Jacob of the fact, that they had all been
invited to the parsonage that night, to celebrate the discovery of
the relationship of Dol with the families of.the mansion and the
cottage. Mr. Fox would be present she said and then hinted how
unpleasant it must be for all concerned to have the general satis-
faction marred or destroyed by the incapacity of one visitor, to
conduct himself with common propriety.
Jacob resented the insinuation in his usual blunt way; but yet
he proved by his abstinence from further potations, that he well
understood the importance, of meeting with prudent reservation
the man, whom he had good reason to believe his rival for the ac-
quisition of countless wealth. Besides, they were to visit a preach.
er'r house and Charles had taken pleasure in telling his uncle that
preachers in this country always stand on great ceremony and do
not say or suffer to be said in their presence any thing, that is not
unexceptional in all its bearings.
At supper-time the men came home; but taking- merely time
enough to change their suits, they and the rest of the family so~u
12                                           .


178                       DOLORES.
.started on their way to the parsonage, were they were expected
to take supper. At the gate of the mansion they where joined by
Mr. Fox and the girl, Mrs. Fox having plead a headache as her ex-
cuse for remaining at home. Mr. Fox smiled when she made the
statement, but little did he dream of the fearful crisis which was
fast approaching, while he in company of his daughters left the
house to spend a few hours in social intercourse. Enjoy them,
poor fellow! who knows, how soon an hour will come round again
which does not contain the element of great bitterness?
The parsonage was decorated in a manner, becoming the occa-
sion. Miss Sarah had plundered her flower-garden, to secure a
fine bouquet for every table in the house. The dining-room es-
pecially bore a gay look and the hostess was greatly pleased to
see so much praise bestowed upon her arrangements. She smiled
through tears when she took both the hands of Dolores. '
"Dol, my good girl" she said drawing her old ward into her
arms and kissing her with warm affection. "I wish you luck to
your acquisitions. I and my brother are the only friends that
haven't turned into kindred : will you still allow us to think of
you as we are wont to do-that is our daughter?"
"Of course I will" Dolores said. "I shall not mei'ely allow it,
but demand it. Indeed the daughter comes before the cousin
and if the latter is not satisfied. with that arrangement he may ex-
pect short notice to quit."
"Why! this is dreadful for all concerned!" Charles now struck
in. I fortunately am not in that dilemma. In my case the cousin
does not interfere with the daughter, although I could no doubt
summon the necessary dignity for a graceful performance of a-
father's role."
One playful word produced another and even before the com-
pany had seated themselves around the well spread table, every
trace of restraint had vanished, excepting uncle Jacob who was
unable to follow the conversation, which was carried on in English.
To indemnify himself he bestowed his undivided attention upon
Miss Sarah's dishes, which met with his profound approbation.
At first she was delighted to see him appreciate her culinary ef-
forts so well; but by and by her delight assumed the character of
alarm, as-she had never before seen a person,.that could let cakes
and pies custards and jellies disappear with such marvelous rapid-

DOLORES.
ity. hO course, she was too kind and welibred, to make remarks
but the timid glance with which she followed the gluttons motions
spoke plain enough. Charles and Dolores enjoyed her scare and
were extremely amused at the energy, with which the spinster
.ged Sares of the company, to partake of her good things.
andellfed ah'sdiay diddnot spring from any avarice, but from
al wtefondhd apprehension that, in spite of the bounteous sup-
ply, the others would have no chance of admiring her killing cook-
was allowed sewing and preserving, if this locust without wings
s aowed to continue his depredations without a check. From
the spinsters frcompassion therefore the young people seconded
the   artses etrts, partly by letting the dishes wander round the
tab, pTy by drawing uncle Jacob into a conversation in- Ger-
man. This latter remedy fully answered the purpose. Putting
thaallotoesteam of his lingual engine, he tore away at such a rate
that Dolores thought tne medicine was worse than the evil and
told her friend as much in a confidential whisper.
Charles laughed.
"Its a pity, that men like him don't carry a safety valve on their
raesUnle carries on such a pressure of steam, that an explo-
sion wouldn't at all astonish me."
But this whispering was contraband. Uncle Jacob told them
cameuh, and willing or not Willing, the unfortunate couple be-
cam the viims of their generosity, For that however the
had the gratitude of Miss Sarah, which took a tangible shape i
many delicious morsels, that were piled on their plates  Aft
ppe th   arty strolled through the house and garden. It was
aboeutil cT er-night, with a starry sky of rare brightness
ae. wThe stillness of the hour caused distant sounds to strike
the ear with great plainness.
g"Listen, Dol," Charles addressed his friend, with whom he was
anering up and down the garden-walk, "some one is loosening
boat: that is a grand night for a ride on the bay."
but who may have any business out there so late? The fish.'
lug season is over; is it not?"
"Yes, Dol. I hardly know, who could be out so late:  There
taet m any such romantic souls as we in the village: However
that reminds me of our proposed visi to the cemetery. A few
propdayedandswe willhbe at liberty, to act.


180                     DOLORES.
Some one approaching, the conversation took a different turn.
The evening passed away pleasantly, and therefore rapidly. It
was fully ten o' clock when the gathering broke up and the guests
with many a "good night" departed. Their ways ran together to
the parkgate of the mansion, and there the scene of parting was
acted over again. All this had caused delay, and when the last noise
died away in the cottage; the clock struck eleven. Everybody
soon found rest and oblivion in the arms of sleep, excepting uncle
Jacob. The injudicious packing of so many victuals, after many
months of compulsory fasting, began to avenge itself. Even on
the way home, Jacob began to feel uncomfortable.  is stomach
had indulged in queer heavings, which reminded him tf the time
when he was on the ocean, and had fallen a prey to sea-sickness.
On his arrival at the.cottage, he had paid a visit to the cellar, and
there, endeavored by a large tumbler full of rum, to compromise
the matter with his stomach; but like most compromises, that of
uncle J- 'lob's had merely a temporary effect, and he had hardly
been in bed an hour, when strange sensations made him rise.
His bowels pained as if some force- was tearing them asunder;
his head grew dizzy and he would have sworn that he was unable
to stir a foot, if certain laws of nature, which no man can escape,
had not forced him to leave his room and the house in hot haste.
Uncle Jacob had no time to arouse the family even if lie had been
inclined to do so; but forward and callous as he was, he felt a cer-
tain shame arising from the consciousness of the origin of his
sickness.
In the open air he felt a little better; but yet the revolution in
his bowels would not let him rest. He felt a crisis coming near-
er and nearer and an increasing nausea drove him from the garden
to the street. He hardly knew, that he went there, much less
why: a new cramp in his stomach forced him to lay both his
hands upon the aching part; the heaving within became more and
more tumultuous and then uncle Jacob underwent the disagreable
sensation of a man, who has his stomach relieved by the process
which in common parlance we call vomiting.
Ie had sinned considerably against his stomach and his pen-
was in proportion. A full quarter of an hour passed by, be-
fofrhe could venture to straighten himself up again.  Wonder-
ful sensations had in the meantime passed through his brain. lie

DOLORES.                        181
had an indistinct retollection of the tramping of a horse and the
rolling of carriage-wheels. On reaching the place of the road
opposite the cottage the horse had shed at him if his impression
was correct, and after bounding sideways with a jerk. that sent
the wagon -spmning, had started off at a furious gallop. He had
also heard a scream, that seemed to emanate from the lips of a
woman, judging from its shrill nature and high pitch-or had he
been only dreaming that part? No indeed, for listen ! there it is
again, tho' not so shrill now, but low and moaning as issuing
from a person in the agonies of pain. It is near by, quite near
on the other side of the road and there is something lying on
the ground, that resembles a human.being...
Jacob had now fully recovered from his sickness. Coarse and
forward as he was, he could not help being impressed by those
pitiful moans and running to the spot where the figure lay, dis-
covered to his consternation a woman in a state of semi-consci-
ousness. From her mouth came the plaintive sounds, that had
moved and startled him; but they grew lower every minute caus-
ing him to fancy, that the poor sufferer was fast approaching
death. Jacob was in great tribulation. He tried to lift the head
and shoulders of the person; but a louder moan induced him to
drop her again.
"I can do nothing by myself," he muttered and running rapidly
into the house knocked at the door of the chamber, where the
boys were sleeping.
"Charles! Henry! get up ! get up, I say."
Charles was the first to answer.
"Who is there ?"
"I, uncle Jacob. For God's sake, get up and open. There is
a woman dying on the road. She must have fallen from a wagon."
"A.woman you say?" Charles inquired obeying his injunctions,
here is she ? what is the matter with her?"
"She is dying on the road, I say. B3 quick boys, or you won't
find her alive."
"Are you sure you ain't dreaming uncle?" Charles inquired
with a dubious shake of his head, but hurrying his dressing as
much as possible notwithstanding.
"You will soon. find that out, when you reach the road" Jacob
anshwered.


182                    DOLORES.
"Come on then uncle, I am ready,"
Rushing down stairs the two soon stood beside the prostrate
form, which by that time had ceased to give any signs of pain or
even life.'
"She is dead" Jacob said with a shudder.
"No, she is not" Charles replied "she is still warm.  Lend me
a hand uncle; we must carry her into the house. I have a good
hold of the shoulders and you take the feet. Where is Henry?"
"Gone to sleep again, I guess."
"The drowsy good-for-nothing! We have to do without him
then. Are you ready? Lift her up then."
"It will give her pain," Jacob suggested, as they were carrying
the body towards the gate.
"Not now; you see she has fainted; and if she had'nt, it can't
be helped. We cannot leave her in the open street.  I-f that
sleepy-head had only got up.-ah! there is mother with a light;
I am so glad. Mother turn the lamp this way! We have a poor
woman, that has come to harm someway or other."
Mrs. Fuchs had much of Charlie's resoluteness; she was a
woman for emergenci'es. Instead of indulging in useless ex-
clamations, she held her peace, obeying her son's injunctions and
thus enabling the men, to take their burden to the porch and
thence into a spare bedroom, that adjoined the parlor.
The body was laid upon the bed and the bonnet and thick veil,
which covered head and face, removed Then, when the lamp
was raised for further inspection it threw its rays upon a face,
the sight of which drew a simultaneous cry from both mother
and son. The lamp in Mrs. Fuchs' hand shook so as to make
the chimney rattle and she had to put it on the table, to prevent
its falling. The eyes of the two met in a long and significant
glance. "She here!" it seemed to say "and at this hour! and in
this dreadful condition ! what can it mean?"
But there the inquest ended, No sound was suffered to escape
their lips, to give voice to the mute supposition; even the wond-
ering inquiry of uncle Jacob was disregarded and conquering
their excitement with a strong resolve, the two set to work with
a will.
"Water, Charlie !" Mrs. Fuchs said in a manner, that made the
words come out, as if under a strong pressure "I'll see to all the

DOLORES.                  183
rest. Jacob, please summon Conrad down; but leave Henry
where he is. You also would do better to retire, may be; for you
look sick and tired and we can get along without you."
"But Jacob was not to be removed in that way. He suihmoned
Conrad to be astir: but as to going to bed, he couldn't think of it.
He had discovered that woman and if it hadn't been for him, they
would have found her dead in the street on the coming morning.
And yet he should be put aside on the plea of consideration and
never know, what that cry of mother and son meant? Not he,
indeed.
During the absence of the meli, Mrs. Fuchs had removed the
garments of the sufferer by cutting them apart; she had also pul-
led off her shoes and when Charles returned with a basin of water
and a sponge, he found her nicely covered with a quilt Mrs.
Fuchs took the sponge and bathing the temples of the woman
with the cooling fluid, endeavared to recall her into consciousness
She succeeded in a measure, for the patient opened her eyes, but
the glance she cast on ier surroundings showed by its vacancy
that though no longer in a swoon, her mind was wandering,.
At this moment Mr. Fuchs came in the room, with Jacob at his
heels. His face showed some uneasiness, but he evidently did
not guess the truth, for when his wife lifted her hand in caution
and stepping up to him, whispered a word into his ear, he started
with a look of consternation, which seemed to say: how is that
possible? But when he neared the bed and cast a glance upon
its inmate, he saw that it was just as his wife had intimated.
Folding his hands he merely uttered:
"Gracious God !"
Charles roused his parents from their torpor.
"This will not do" he said, "we must at once take measures to
secure medical aid and then to notify her husband."
"Good heavens! could it just be possible, that he should be
ignorant of her absenee from home at this late hour?"
"No guesses mother. See rather to her comfort. I'll go and
get the Doctor and then call at the mansion.
He went away leaving his parents alone with the sufferer.
Uncle Jacob would have liked nothing better, than to keep them
Company; but a plain hint of his nephew sufficed to send himto
is room. We have intimated before, that the young man had


184                    DOLORES.
managed to secure his relative's respect in a considerable degree,
and Jacob saw fit, to mind the son in a matter, where the mother
had hinted in vain. True, uncle Jacob muttered somewhat on
retiring to his room; but he was doubly sleepy in consequence of
his "parforce" cure and found consolation for his slight the mo-
ment he stretched upon his mattress.
Not so the pair at the sick bed. They knew, that Charles would
use the utmost speed, in fetching the Doctor and yet the time
elapsing before his arrival, appeared to them almost like eternity.
At last the garden-gate was swung, the door was opened and the
physician of the village made his appearance in the room. Char-
les evidently had prepared him in a measure for the sight in store,
for the man of science was more excited than the Fuchs' had
ever seen him before,
"Good evening friends" he said in a low but hurried accent,
your son has told me strange news. Mrs. Fox thrown from a
carriage and that at midnight! Ah! there, she is poor soul.
Please madam move a little, to give me a chance of examining
her. Has she spoken since the accident?"
"Not a word Doctor. She was unconscious when they fetched
her in; but the cold water brought her too. She looks delirious."
"She is delirious and J should not wonder, if :a brainfever
w gld set in, in consequence of the fall."               -
"Is anything broken Doctor?"
"I think not: but her case is had enough without it. Please
to get some linen or muslin, madam. I want to lay wet bandages
around her head."
While -Mrs. Fuchs procured the desired stuff, the door opened
again, this time admitting Mr. Fox and Charles. The former was
perfectly bewildered, showing clearly by his conduct, that he was
as much at a loss to comprehend his wife's present flight, as the
family in the cottage. Neglecting to greet the persons in the
room, he hastily stepped up to the bed and gazed with intense
anxiety into the vacant eye of his wife. He saw how the doctor
applied the wet bandages and also how he forced seie medicine
through her compressed lips; but more than ten minutes had
elapsed since his arrival, before he finally asked:
"Doctor, is there any hope?"
His voice was so hollow, that all were startled.

DOLORES.                        185
"I- can say nothing definite, Mr- Fox," the physician replied.
"As far as I can judge there are no bones broken; but the head
has evidently received a jar and I am afraid, a brainfever may
set in."
"Then she cannot be removed?"
"No Sir; the most absolute rest and tranquillity are necessary
for the patient. If you remove her, I can answer for nothing."
"Oh! she is in good hands," Mrs. Fuchs earnestly remarked.
"Dont fret on that score Mr. Fox."
He looked at her intently; then shook his head.
'It isn't that" he said. "I wouldn't want better care; but the
people, madam,the people !"
They understood well what he meant, but nobody came forward
to offer consolation.
"What will they say, when the rumor spreads about, that Mrs.
Fox was, found at midnight on the highway without her husband's
knowledge of the fact ?"
"Now, don't take it so hard Mr. Fox," the owner of the cottage
said with an effort of consolation. "Mrs. Fox may have had very
good reasons for being out and as to the people-why I do not
see, why they need ever learn anything about it. Doctor Palmer
is the only one besides the family that knows the whole affair and
I am sure, he is not the man to carry gossip to the people."
"Of course Mr. Fox, we can keep the whole affair a secret, if
you think best to have it so."
"That is a good idea" Mrs. Fuchs exclaimed, "until we know
the object of Mrs. Fox'es being out at so late an hour, we must
endeavor to keep the whole affair a secret. Was -it John that
drove her ?"
"No madam, he is at home ; so are the horses.  That is what
bothers me. I hav'nt the least idea, what this strange move-
ment signifies."
"Well, don't you fret about it now, Mr. Fox.  I am sure; we
shall soon get the clue, to the mystery. But listen, she begins
to talk: is that a good sign Dr, ?"
The physcian merely answered by a "pst!" and all could dis-
tinctly hear how the patient said:
"The horse Richard! the horse!"
After a minute's silence she resumed:

N


186                     DOLORES.
"Let me off, Richard ! Let me off to return to my children.
What will they think of their mother?"
Another pause.
"They will point with their fingers at me; at me, the adulteress !"
Mr. Fox covered his face ; then groaned aloud.
Mrs. Fuchs laid her hand upon his shoulder.
"Now don't! don't condemn her on the testimony of a feverish
brain. You see she does not know, what she is talking of."
"I know she does'nt" he said bitterly. "If she was sensible,
she would hide that confession in the deepest recesses of her
ouL"
All felt the force of his remark.
"I could have borne much from her" he continued, "I did bear
much. But that she should have sullied my honor, should have
found the heart to abandon my home and children, to cover us
with shame, that is too much, is more than I can ever forgive
her."
Again Mrs. Fuchs attempted to console him.
"Mr. Fox" she said "do not rashly judge, or you may be judged
again. Even if your conjectures be correct-a thing, which is by
no means certain-you should thank God for his gracious: inter-
ference and that he has put her plans to naught. There she lies
helpless and prostrate. How fortunate that it was just our house,
in which she was received. If she should not recover from her
injuries, silence will forever cover her mistake; if on the other
hand she is restored to health, she will have learned a lesson and
you Sir, in time will not withold your pardon. But now Sir,
talk no more, for, unless I am mistaken, she hears us and becomes
excited."
The doctor agreeing with her, the room became perfectly still.
Charles at the doctor's request accompanied him to his office, to
take the proper medicine back to the cottage. Mr. Fox eon-
sented to return to the mansion and tell a plausible story in the
morning, so as to shape public opinion and to prevent idle rumors
from spreading amongst the neighbors. He was to call however
in the morning and to bring Dolores with him, so that the girl
might assist 3rs. Fuchs and relieve her in a measure of the burden,
which thissick spell in her house imposed upon her. Mr. Fuchs
retired to a 'lounge in a neighboring room and his wife assumed

her seat at the side of the bed, to watch the patient and adminis-
the medicine in accordance with the doctor's directions.  When
Charles returned she tried to persuade him too, to catch a little
more sleep; but he refused so definitely, that she gave it up, to
carry the point and allowed him to share the vigil at the bedside.
Thus the hours of the night wore off End with the returning
sun the doctor again made his appearance.
CHAPTER XIX.
IT NEVER RAINS, BUT IT POURS.
He was not alone; Mr. Fox and'the two young ladies appeared
in his company. The intelligence elicited from Mrs. Fuchs was
not satisfactory. The patient had had a restless night and
spoken considerably in the same strain as that related. In fact
she hesitated, to admit the girls into her room and taking Mr.
Fox aside intimated as much: It would hardly do, she said, to
allow Lucy to listen to a mother proclaiming continually her own
shame. And yet how would they refuse her? On what plea
should they exclude her from the presence of a mother, that
might die before the setting of another sun? The Doctor was
consulted and induced to state,- that the presence of too many
persons would injure the condition of the patient; but Lucy
generally so gentle and yielding was deaf to all persuasions this
time. Indeed she guessed the truth and told them as much.
"L et me in" she pleaded "for my place is at my mothers bed-
side. If she is delirious and in her fever talks at random, I shall
not hear it, atleast not heed it. So do not hinder me from going
in to her. .I shall not make the least noise, nor be at all in the
way; but see her and nurse her, I must, indeed I must."
What should they do?   She guessed the truth and so they
thought at last, they might as well indulge her. To the entrance
of Dolores there was no objection after that; indeed nobody
seemed to think it wrong from the beginning. She was strong
of mid, they knew. To imagine that she might be injured in her
morals, N ould be preposterous. The even tenor of her mind, her
high principles, the purity of her heart, that lit up her face as it

DOLORES.

187


188                     DOLORES.
were, with a hal of innocence, excluded the thought of even the
possibility, that she might be injured by 'the contact with sin
and evil. Nobody ever mentioned this in words; or thought of
it even in distinct thoughts; but that is the triumph of a pure
and high strung nature, that it fills all around it with an instinc-
tive confidence, a trust as much a matter of course as the eternal
laws of nature.
So the girls were admitted in the room and after a few pangs,
of bitter anguish on the part of Lucy and rapidly suppressed
tears of sympathy on that of Dolores, the young nurses entered
upon their duties. There is a soothing influence in youth, gentle-
ness and beauty even upon sickness and the feverish blood of
poor Mrs. Fox seemed to flow less violently through her veins.
Perhaps the Doctor's medicine also began to take effect and half
an hour after Mr. Fox' arrival at the cottage his wife fell into
a sleep, which tho' broken and feverish as it was, might be con-
sidered as a great improvement on her previous ravings. It
also gave the others a chance for a short deliberation, on the
course which had better be pursued) It was impossible to con-
ceal the sickness of Mrs. Fox altogether; but it was to be hoped,
that they might succeed in giving it a natural explanation. She
had been sick for some time, and under the influence of a slow
fever packed and dispatched her trunk. In the night her fever
had increased sufficiently, to cause an aberration ofher mind. In
this delirious condition she had wandered from the house and
taken refuge at the cottage where she was kindly received and
nursed, the malignant nature of the sickness making a removal
of the patient impossible.
This story, they hoped, might find credence with the public,
provided it was systematically repeated by all concerned.. True,
it was beyond their power, to prevent idle gossips from starting
rumors; but a frown at the proper time would suffice to chase
them from open day into the night, where they, pat-like, might
eek out a shadowy existence. The only danger of betrayal lay
with uncle Jacob and Charles volunteered, to take upon himself
the task of securing his silence.
"I think I can manage him" he said "and may as well go up at
once, to try. Bat before I forget it: when I returned with the
medicine from Dr. Palmer's offiee I saw something white lying

DOLORES.                       189
on the road, at the place, where we discovered Mrs. Fox. On
closer examination I found it to be a letter, and thinking, that it
might have fallen from the poor lady, I put it in my pocket, to
hand it to Mr. Fox in the morning. Here it is, Sir, and you had
better examine it, while I go up, to see to uncle Jacob."
With these words he, pulled an envelope from his pocket,
that was unsealed and unadressed, though it evidently .con-
tamed a letter,' judging from its -eight and stiffness. He
handed it to 1Mr. Fox and then left the room and went up
stairs to see his uncle. The sickness and vigil of last night had
prolonged Mr. Jacob's slumber and Charles had to shake him
considerably, to secure his awaking.
"Ah! yes, yes, ah ! what is the matter? is that you Charlie?
what is it my lad ?"
"Are you fully awake, uncle?"
"Wide awake, like a lark, Charlie !"
"And do you recollect last night's adventure ?"
"Exactly !" he exclaimed, although it was evident that only his
nephew's inquiry had roused his memory. "The woman, that
had fallen from the carriage; is she dead Charlie ?"
His voice became low and husky at this question.
"No uncle, she is alive and may recover. It was on her ae-
count, that I came to speak to you."
Uncle Jacob straightened himself rapidly; his interest had been
awakened and he inquired with eagerness:
"Well, Charlie I am all attention; what have you to tell inc
about the woman?"
"You saw mother and me start last night on recognizing her.
You won't wonder at that, when I tell you, that the woman is
the mistress of the mansion-Mrs. Fox."
"Whey! Charlie, you dont say so !"
"Yes, I do uncle; it is Mrs. Fox, that now lies down stairs with
a typhoid fever."
"Typhoid fever? Strange! I never heard of anybody getting
that from falling off a wagon ?"
. "But she didn't fall from a wagon, uncle" Charles said, impres-
sively, looking at his i'elative significantly. "I came up for cor-
recting that impression."
"But I heard the wagon, Charlie."


190                    DOLORES.
"Nothing but the fancy of a sick brain."
"I tell you, it was no such thing, boy. I saw the horse too and
I could swear...."
"You better not uncle," Charles interrupted him.
It is just, as I tell you. Mrs. Fox has not fallen from the
wagon, but is suffering from a typhoid fever."
"But Charlie....." the obstinate fellow resumed.
"Why uncle, I wonder at your dull comprehension" the young
man said impatiently 'fallen or not fallen-she mustn't have fal-
len, but suffer from a typhoid fever. Do you understand now?"
"Yes, yes, I see, you want to hush the matter up."
"Exactly and will you promise to let nobody know, the real
state of affairs."
"Of course, my boy, if I can do you a favor by it,."
"Not even Henry?"
"You want even him to remain in ignorance ?,
"Him more than all the rest. He gossips like an old woman."
"Well if it must be, I will not tell him. It will go hard though,
for I like the boy."
A derisive smile passed over Charlie's countenance..
"It must be uncle, and now let me tell you. By hinting a word
of this affair to anybody, you will make me your enemy-do you
know, what that signifies, to have me for an enemy?"
Charles looked daggers while he said this. Uncle Jacob had
an idea and he said so.
"Well I am glad of it. However I would rather be your friend
and if you humor me in this, I shall befriend you. I have an
idea, where Eberhardt's testament may be concealed and if I find
you a man of your word, I may assist you in discovering it."
Charles could not well have hit upon a more powerful incentive,
to shut his uncle's mouth. Jacob's eye had lit at the mention of
the will, and he was on the point of launching on a torrent of
eager questions, when a rapat the door interrupted him. Charles
opened and saw Mr. Fox standing outside. Dejected, as that
gentleman had been since the discovery of his wife's want of fidel-
ity, he looked so pale and frightened, so much the prey of hope-
less consternation, that Charles at once guessed a new calamity.
Stepping out to him and closing the door behind him, he asked
in guarded tones:

DOLORES.                       191
"What is the matter Sir? She isn't worse, not dying?"
Mr. Fox shook his head.
"The letter ! the letter!" he gasped pointing to an open paper
he held in his trembling hand.
"What letter, Mr. Fox? The one 1 gave you?"
Mr. Fox nodded.
"Take and read" he said, "I am a ruined man."
Charles took the letter, but instead of looking at it, he said:
"Come Mr. Fox, let us go down into the parlor or the arbor be
hind the house. This is too public a place, to discuss delicate
matters. Come my dear Sir."
Taking the other's arm, he led him down stairs.
"Does my father know about this ?" he asked on the way.
"No Charlie, I thought of you first. I knew that I could rely
on your judgment and energy above that of all others."
"Thank you, Sir, for your good opinion; but father is a man of
much experience, though a little timed in consequence of earlv
training: Have you any objection, if we draw him iii the secret?"
"Not the least, Charlie; on the contrary, I applaud your pro-
position. Call him at once."
Charles found hisfather making preparations for going to the
factory. Looking at the clock on the mantelpiece he saw that
the hand had passed the hour of six by thirty minutes.
"Have you had your breakfast father?"
"A bite Charlie, a cold bite. [thought I wouldn't wait for any-
thing else, for my presence may be necessary at the factory."
Charles looked up; the thought of Mr. Wood struck him for
the first time. Had he any connection with the letter? But he
had no leisure to meditate now, so he said:
"Dont go for a minute or two, father. Mr. Fox wants youin
the garden."
e Fuchs nodded without asking questions and the two went int
the grape arbor, where they found Mr. Fox sitting at a table, his
had resting heavily on his hand.
"Here we are, Sir," Charles addressed him "and ready to listen.
You may beforehand rest assured of our assistance, feeble as it
'Thank you" Mr. Fox said monotonously, at the same time
handing him the letter.e


192                     DOLORES.
Charles opened it and recognizing the handwriting exclaimed:
"Mr. Wood's hand: shall I read aloud?"
"If you please Charlie."
Foxville Date-blank.
To Lieutenant D-, commander of the Revenue Cutter Speed.
Dear Sir!
It is my painful duty, to inform you today of a nefarious
practice to which Edward Fox of Foxville of L-County Maine
and a manufacturing house of England are parties. A smuggling
trade of steel has been carried on between these parties for years
and on so grand a scale, that the Government has been cheated
out of thousands. A few days ago I dispatched a messenger to
you with the necessary evidence to prove the misdemeanor; but
fearing, that for some reason or other, the information may not
reach you, I take pains, to send you these lines. If you will take
the trouble to visit the coast of Maine near Foxville and there
examine the cave of the cemetery, you will find ample proofs of
the correctness of my statement. Hoping that the law will have
its way and that this great swindle will find the punishment due
to it, I sign myself truly yours
A LAW ABIDING CITIZEN.
"The scoundrel!" Mr. Fox exclaimed with a readiness showing
that he had for once overcome his diffidence.
"Yes, more than scoundrel!" Cnaries struck in." Now I under'
stand his machinations."
"I don't" Mr. Fox said with an apathetic voice. "What can
he mean with this senseless information ? It is not only fear that
moved me so,- it is horror at such black ingratitude."
"When I explain, you will understand it easily enough. First
let me tell you, that Mr. Wood has been really smuggling and for
several years."
His hearers started.r
"Smuggling? and you knew it and did not inform me?" Mr.
Fox said half, wonderingly half indignantly.
"Yes Sir I knew it and so did Dolores. Allow me to tell you,
how we found it out and why we concealed it from your know-
ledge. We may have been wrong; but if we were, it was a fault
of the head, ot of the heart."
He now re ted the adventure with the sled and his subsequent
discoveries. He gave as the reason of his, secrecy the wish t
catch the offender in the act of smuggling, but laboring under

DOLORES                         193
the difficulty of being obliged
failed in satisfying his hearers.s
''You meant well, Charlie." MI
meant well; for by        .   r. Fox. replied. "J knew you
meantwell;fo by means of your hints I wasenbdtocuer
act the pernicious influences of this traitor. senabledto counter-
formed me, I might have prevented this misfortune  Wh o nows
what seeming evidence the scoundrel may have colce, ofse
this crime upon me. He speaks of a m      collected,to fasten
days ago; he speaker of eaves, which  eene  who was sent
--ah ! even nowwthi,            h are entirely unknown to nwtesrat  ftelwmyme
ready to fasten n e servants of the law may be on the track, and
r      n on my name a stain, that will never leave it aga
even if they fail to prove the charge against me." i
"Yes Charlie, you did wrong" Mr. Fuch      - -
was always your fault, to act too". Fcs now joined in. "It
mas aw br fabut to a   oo indepentendly and your conduct
may now bring about the ruin of our benefactor."
Thisa was more than Charles could bear. He-sprang to his et
nd was on the point of repelling the charg     atoce he
remembered thpini           . th  hr   e' whlen all at once he
edthe binding obligation of the oath. No,ehe would
not perjure himself, even at the risk of being misjudged by those
whose good opinion he valued. rA few bein wsulde eeythose,
right and even if the revenue officers should raise the charge of
smuggling his testimony and that of Dolores would et arge uf
fice to clear Mr. Fox. So calming down he merely said:
"Father! Mr. Fox! you surely  ron  me  ey ca id:
an1y more, than Ihetodyuwutng me. I cannot now reveal'
an mre tanI have told you; but in a few dasshl iv.o
satisfactory explanations. Unti then I be  days shall glive you
I did nothing which -t  -      en  bg yu t bliev e, that
l inotig'     hchyurjdement would not sustain, if -o
knew all. But time is precious now: letld us rsoupn, iou
nlext movements in this matter. Of   us wesl non Mr
W ood at h fcoyOhsf course we shall not find Mr.1
W  at the factory this morning, nor George either.."
" Why not George"
"Because he is the accompliceon             f   m
presence will therefore be very necor  there  thm   . O
shall go with fathra  heuiancessary there this mrnin g. I
shal o  it fther at the usual hour and proceed asusa.  o
31r. Fogy must Come at little aouanprce as usual. You
iast." omlater, to avoid the appearance of
haste."                                                 o
"Yes, yes, that will be best" Mr
'lust come at your usual hour, to keep the workmetu from s"o
Big rumors'"                    eptewoke        rmsat
13


194                     DOLORES.
After this remark he stopped and both the elder men involun-
tarily turned to Charles, as if they expected to receive from him
directions as to what else was to be done.
"When you arrive, you call me out and take me to the office"
the young man continued with a resolute, decisive tone, that
showed exactly what he though was necessary and imparted that
feeling to the others. "There we must first examine everything,
before we decide upon our next steps. I am very much afraid,
we shall make discoveries; that will prove, that this letter and the
attempt on Mrs. Fox are not the only items of Mr. Wood's list
of crimes. Mr. Fox have you had any breakfast this morning."
"No Charlie, but I have no appetite whatever."
"You must force yourself to eat a little nevertheless. Other-
wise you too' would break down and goodness knows, we cannot
spare you now. Come, dear Sir, I think mother has some break-
.fast ready now. Cheer up; all may be well yet.""
CHAPTER XX.
WORSE AND WORSE.
Mr. Fox suffered himself to be led into the house. Breakfast
indeed was ready and the three sat down, to snatch a few morsels
before going to the task, that had been resolved upon. Mr. Fox
was first to go to the mansion and there relate the story concern-
ing his wife's illness and afterwards make his appearance at the
factory. The girls were to remain at the- cottage for the present
and assist in nursing the patient. Mrs. Fuchs was able to give
them all the comforting assurance that the condition of the suf-
4erer was all that could be expected under the circumstances and
that there was reasonable hope of recovery, provided undue ex
excitement could be prevented from preying on her mind.
They soon separated. Mr. Fox taking the way to the mansion,
cast uneasy glances about him, to see whether people were
already acquainted with his shame. A few people of the village
passing him, greeted him with the usual salutation, but in his
opinion their accent was ironical and their smile malignant. Pro-
bably these persons looked and acted after their wonted fashion,;

DOLORES.                       195
but his mood colored the visions of his eye, causing it to act like
a prism which dyes the object, on which it casts its colored rays
On reaching his house he noted an unusal stir and bustle
amongst the servants. They knew, that something was wron
and he shrank from the thought, that it was his province to giv
the necessary explanations. Still he knew, that much depended
on his looks and words and'going to the library he rang the bell.
When Susan entered, he had tolerably well succeeded in banish-
ing from his face all emotions excepting a sadness, which was but
natural on the occasion.
"Susan" he said "I want to speak to you. Take a chair; so
and listen well to what I tell you, for I want you to communicate
sad news to the others."
Here Susan interrupted him. Clasping her hands together she
exclaimed with a frightened voice:
"O Mr. Fox, I knew it! I knew it! They wouldn'Ct believe me,
when I told them, that something had befallen my mistress; but
see it now from your face. Is she dead? is my
dead?, is y poor mistr ess
(lead?"
"No, Susan, it is not as had as that; but what made you think
so?"watmdyothn
"Oh! when I knocked at her door this morning,
not a bit of one. I tried again and again but ih  bette lu
And then too I heard the bell in the night and noticed your  t-
ting up and going away. I thought something was the matter
ut when you came and took the young ladies away, I knew it for
sure. Oh! Mrs. Fox is dead! my good mistress is dead onl y
are afraid to tell me."                         ,oyou
"Indeed Susan it is not so bad as that, Mr. Fox replied, evi-
dently moved by the manifestation of an attachment, whichehe
had not expected. "Still she is very sick, and there is no telling
what may happen. Tell me, Susan, did you notice anything  u-
usual in Mrs. Fox lately? any symptoms of sickness?"
p                                 f Not to my knowledge, Sir, excepting may be, yesterday after-
non. Mr. Wood called during your absence; but he didn't st
ong and when Mrs. Fox went .up stairs, I thought she looked
verish like. Yes, now I think of it, she did and then she com.
fenced to pack the trunk, a thing she never did in all herclife.
Ieed she must have been sick then, only we didn't think Of it.'


196                    DOLORES.
"Yes, Susan, I think like you, she must have been very' sick
even then and it is a great pity we dn't              t
me, that she was very anxious about her dresses and would
let her even touch them. She seemed to have the queer idea, that
dn.atonehhesntto the
the dresses needed altering and must at once be sent
city."
Indeed, Sir, and she did send them, a big trunk full.  John
had to take it to town to Adam's express. She would call and
see about it. he had to tell them."
"And she did go, poor woman. We must have been strangely
blind, not to see it coming. About midnight Mrs. Fox must
have become delirious, for from what 'happened, afterwards, we
know that she must have left the house about thtt time."
"Good gracious! the darling woman! to leave the house at such
an hour, alone and in a fever! It's a wonder, it didn't kill her!"
"It came very near it, Susan, and may still, for all we know."
"But where is she? where is she now?"
"At the cottage, you know, Mr. Fuchs' house. We were at the
parsone last-        t night and didn't get home till late. Mrs. Fuchs
had some arrangements to make before retiring, and the clock
struck twelve before she had got through. To-day is her wash-
day and looking out, to see what kind of weather we might ex-
pect, she noticed something white lying on the street. At first
she thought it was a rag or something of that sort; but when she
heard a moan, she knew it was a human being and running down,
discovered Mrs. Fox. They were sorely frightened, you may
well believe and so was I when they summoned me-to the bedside.
I found the Doctor there, who told me it was a typhoid fever of
the worst description. She didn't know me, nor the girls either
this morning."
"Oh dear! oh dear !" Susan exclaimed, "and there are no hopes
of her recovery?"
"Oh yes, she was a little better, when I left an  a  into
a slumber. Still she may be sick for weeks, if she does recover
and we couldn't think of moving her. So she'll remain at the
cottage and the girls will be there too most of their time, to nurse
ota   eaher and  keep her company."~
"Oh how dreadful! how dreadful! The house will be like dead
and we might as well go all away."

DOLORES.                       197
"Indeed we mightn't Susan. I shall be here and I expect
everything to go on as usual,"
"But may I go and see her, Sir?"
"Not just at present Susan, The Doctor has ordered the strict-
est seclusion and says the slightest excitement may-kill-her.. As
n      er as she is ou t of danger, you may see her as often
asyou please."                                        e
"Thank you Sir and will you want any dinner to-day?"
"Of course Susan; I expect to take my meals here. So, now
you may go and tell.the others. See that they do not ask me
any questions. It worries me and don't do your mistress any
good."
"So far, so good." Mr Fox said tohimself, as he left the house
and took the direction to the factory.  "Still there ither
task before m  n   evnkosoy            tl there is another
S me and heaven knows, how I'll get through that."
"Charlie can't you come to the office for a minute? I have a
commission for you."
Thus Mr. Fox voice rang through the building plainly heard
by the hands, as it was intended that it should be.
"Aye! aye! Sir." Charles responded, a load being
mind at the saetm'rpo                a  eng, taken off his
same time.  Mr. Wood was nowhere, and George
was absent, and in spite of Mr. Fuchs' efforts to keep the machine
in the track, it threatened to come to a still stand every minute.
For that reason Charles felt greatly relieved  on hearing Mr. Fox'
Voice and stepping briskly over the yrd, joined himin te o
He closed and ocethdvrbey rJomdhmi the office.
' c    and locked the door behind him, and then facing his
companion, said :
"'Twas high time for you to con; They keptamany
questions, that my wit was near at an end."
"And what do you propose to do, Charlie?"
"That depends on the result of our investigation. Mr. Fox
have you the keys of the safe ?"
"Yes, there is a duplicate in my Possession-whydy a?"
e"Wmipsssson-wydo you ask?"
Will you please open the safe, then."
Mr. Fox obeyed his injunction.
"Now look for the money, or was there none ?"
"Yes, Wood showed me drafts amounting to $10,000.00.
"Aiy couCharles said with a sigh of relief "so much the better ;
they col8  becahd     itou yu    tnhersement.


4

198

DOLORES.

"But" Mr. Fox stammered "I think, he made me indorse them;
He said he wanted money to pay off the hands."
"That is bad" Charles responded. "Please look for them at
once."
Mr. Fox looked, but they had disappeared.
"I thought -so!" Charles exclaimed.
Mr. Fox however did not take it so cooly. He groaned and
sank into a chair.
"Eleven thousand dollars!"
"I wonder it isn't more. It may be more for all we know.
Come let us examine the books. A man is never ready to act,
until he knows the worst."
Mr. Fox assented. The books were run over and' in spite- of
his dejection the owner could not help admiring the quick and
comprehensive glance with which Charles took in the smallest
details. In less than an hour the total lay before them. It was
not at all flattering, but, as Charles had suggested worse, than
Mr. Fox was prepared to expect.
The hands in the factory had not been paid for nearly a month;
pay-day was near at hand and no money in the treasury. But
that was not all.  On close examination Charles found several
letters of the firms, from which the factory was in the habit of
receiving its steel. These letters contained polite but urgent re-
quests to settle certain dues and after figuring up the various
items they contained, Mr. Fox found himself indebted to the firm'
for more than $10,000,00 This together witir the sum due to the
laborers threatened to exceed his resources. The money had
been there, to meet all these .contingencies; but the fraud of the
superintendent had at once created a deficit of more than $24,000.00
We need not wonder therefore, that Mr. Fox became more and
more dejected and expressed to Charles his conviction of the
uselessness of any efforts to stem the tide.
"To make the cup full" he said "nothing but the appearance of
the revenue officers is wanting. Indeed I shouldn't be surprised
to see them enter this very moment.  Nor would I care.  My
honor blighted, my credit gone: what does it matter, if my repu-
tation as a law-abiding citizen is destroyed?"
Charles was alarmed at this dejection. He could not help be-
lieving, that Mr. Fox in his heart blamed, him to a certain degree

DOLORES.

I 6

and in a measure ascribed his misfortune to the young man's
secrecy. If lie could only cheer him up, to hold out a few days
until that fatal bar would be taken from him, then he would at
least be able to justify his own conduct and maybe eve render
Mr. Fox material assistance.
"Now Mr. Fox this is downright wrong, you see. No good
mariner will leave the vessel as long as he has the prospect of
holding her planks together. Our case is not so bad as that.
True, we have sprung a leak; but I am confident of our ability to
stop it. Cheer up, sir! Excessive grief is neither manly nor exped-
ient; it behooves us better to take measures to retrieve our fortune
than to lay our hands in our lap and look the picture of despair."
"But what would you do? I see no means of raising at short
notice the large amount we owe.. Indeed by the bad manage-
ment of the establishment my credit in the banks has already
suffered and I see no chance of raising the necessary funds."
"There is nothing like trying, Mr. Fox. Will y6u promise to
make an effort?"
"Yes Charlie, I will, but for that purpose, I'll have to pay a
visit to our town, or, if necessary, even to the city. Before I leave
however, I must take steps to install you in Mr. Wood's place."
"Hadn't you better appoint myfather? It would look better
and I could still assist him in all his measures."
"Ithink you  re right, my boy.  Will you please call your
father in ?"
When Mr. Fuchs appeared, he was informed of what had hap-
pened and what was to be done. In his timidity, he shrank from
the great responsibility of his new position and only the thought
of Charlie's assistance reconciled him to the arrangement.  The
three were on the point of leaving the office and calling the
hands together, to acquaint thep with the change; when Charles
stopped the others, saying:
"I never thought of it: shall we take no measures of bringing
the runaways to justice? Perhaps we might be fortunate enough
in such a case, to recover a portion of the booty."
Mr. Fox shook his head.
"I have thought of that" he said "but I have come to the con-
elusion it would not answer for certain reasons, which I need but
hint at. Mv wife's reputation is at the scoundrel's mercy and I


200                    DOLORES.
am afraid he would have little scruple, to threaten her, in order to
secure impunity."
Charles saw the subject pained him; so he abstained from touch.
ing it again. All the hands were called together and informed of
the new arrangement. There was some surprise of course and a
good deal of envy and jealousy; but Mr. Fox took the proper
course, of ignoring these manifestations and ordering a resump-
tion of the work, as if no change had at all been made. From
the factory he went to the, cottage, where no remarkable change
had taken place. What little change there was however, was for
the better and Mr. Fox felt inclined to share the hope of the girls
and the family at. the cottage, that his wife would recover.
Hope? did he really hope it? wouldn't it be a mercy for her, to
find oblivion in the grave? would it not be a, mercy for him too?
At times a bitterness of heart induced him to believe, that 'such
an event would be acceptable, nay even agreeable to him; but at
other times again he felt ahgry with himself aid persuaded..him
self, that he would find no difficulty in verifying Mrs. Fuchs' pre-
diction, namely, that he would readily pardon her great offense.
Thus his, thoughts vacillated, when he left the cottage, to pay a
final visit at the mansion. His adieu to his daughters had been
short but fervent. A kiss, a Godspeed, a pressure of the hand
and one parent had departed to leave them with another, who
might also depart at any time, depart for another home, never to
return.
Those were solemn thoughts, that filled these young creatures,
while they attended to the duties af the sick-room; nor did the
meditations of the father differ niuch.from theirs. He and Lucy
would have discovered great similarity of views, and ideas if an
exchange could have, been made just then. Kind as Mr. Fox'
easy disposition was,gentle as we have found Lucy to be-neither
of them had the genuine charity which Dolores noble soul develop-
ped towards the unfortunate woman. And yet she was the one,'
that had been slighted-by the patient, she the recipient of many
taunts direct and indirect, expressed and intimated. But her gen-
lay prostrate on the sickbed, she had been the first, to approach
erous heart had kept no record of her injuries and when her enemy
her without a secret shudder at her pollution. Dolores hated si
but she imitated the example of the founder of the Christian faith,

DOLORES.
who warned the people, not to condemn others, unless they felt
themselves free from sin.
And.--strange !-the patient seemed to feel, what her delirious
mind was unfit to comprehend. She preferred the presence and
assistance of Dolores to that f all others and appeared to find a
great relief, when the girl aid her hand upon the temple, which
burned with the rapid heat of a tumultuous blood. Strange in-
deed! What a false perception, a willful blindness had kept
asunder in the days of prosperity,.seemednow destined to be joined.
together by the bitter but salutary lessons of adversity.
CHAPTER XXI.
A NEW'REIGN.
After Mr. Fox had left, Charles seized the reins of government
in the factory with a strong hand. While father and son endea-
vored- to reconcile their former fellow laborers by kindness, to
what they necessarily must consider as a great good fortune, they
suffered on the other hand no encroachment on the prerogatives
of the office. These were not theirs, but inherent to the place
and it was Pot their business to introduce innovations, which
might affect their successors. On the whole, they had less diffi-
ulty, than they expected and this Mr. Fuchs rightly attributed
to his son's influence. Charles was not. only liked, but he was
also esteemed and--what goes farther with a certain class,-
feared. He could knock down the ,best man in the factory and
there were a few anecdotes in circulation, which showed, that he
was very ticklish and quicker to strike, than was acceptable to
parties, who thought of making something out of bulleying.
Charles had received carte-blanche-indeed he would not have
accepted the office on any other condition-and when Mr. Fox
had departed, he at once adopted the policy, by which he had re-
solved to be governed. Mr. Fuchs was satisfied with anything
his son might suggest and so the first measure was carried into
practice without delay. He sent word to about a dozen of the
Oldest and most influential laborers in the factory requesting them
to meet hi in the office. After they had entered and seated-


202                       DOLORES.
themselves, he communicated in concise, sharp outlines such fea-
tures of the fraud, as he thought best for them to know.
Wood and George-strange, now when he thought of it, he
found, that the young man had never gone by any other name-
h'ad defrauded Mr. Fox to the amount of many thousands, and
crippled him sufficiently, to make the meeting of all dues a dif-
cult matter. Mr. Fox he said had gone away to raise the neces-
sary funds, but times were dull; the war in Italy had brought on
a crises and money was scarce. Now, in case Mr. Fox should not
succeed in getting enough to satisfy everybody-lie wanted to
know, whether they would be willing, to do a little for their em-
ployer by giving him some time and inducing their fellow work-
men, to do the same? He was their benefactor and the benefac-
tor of the village and the man that could point out any injury he
ever received from Mr. Fox, was yet to make his appearance.
It was a perfect little speech, he made thereand it was well re-
ceived. The sturdy fellows wtth their blackened hands and faces
declared, that Mr. Fox needn't fret on their account and that
they would say the same thing for theirpomrades. He hadgiven
them a chance to lay by a little and they could get along well
enouh, even if payments should be postponed for a month or two.
They thanked Charles for his confidence and the chance he had
given them, to show, how much they thought of their generous
employer.
"So far, so good" said Charles to his father after the delegates
had left the office. "That is one slip farther from the track. But
what is this?"                (
He had taken a letter, which with other mail matter had arrived
a little while ago. "Ha! George's handwriting! Listen father,
to what the scoundrel h .ts to say. I bet he is going to sell his
partner.
Charles Fuchs, Esq.-(the fellow addresses the letter to me!
seems to have had considerable forethought.)-Dear Sir!-
(thank you sir; I would rather not be feared by you. )-Having
been compelled by Mr. Wood (voluntary sort of compulsion, I
guess) to participate in an act, which never had my approbatt nt
I es now write to you these lines, to offer a tonemnent to the extent
of my. ability. I hold in my hands valuable papers, which are of
the greatest'importance to Mr. Fox-(I bet lie is the messenger,
that was to see the revenue officers and now proposes to sell out
to us)-If you should feel inclined to secure these papers, yOU

DOLORES          .20&amp;
can obtain an interview with me by making  our appearance
the rock called the Devils needle(I have no doubt the fellat
feels very much at home at such a place)-a place, of which you
have doubtless heard. I shall give you time to the end of this
week. If you fail to call at the rendez vous until then; I shall
construe your nonappearance into a refusal of my offer and at
once make use of the papers in a way, that ,  must result in your
employer's ruin.                       Yours respectfully
(thank you, sir, I'd rather be despised by the like of you) GEORGE.
'-George Nobody" Charles exclaimed, waxing warm "or rather
George Arnold; for every other- name is too good for such a trai-
torg."
"And you think, lie holds the paper, which Wood mentioned
in the letter, you found before our house?"
"Of course lie does. He cannot know that we see through his
trick; for I am sure lie has not the least idea of the other letter."
Wod evidently wrote it, because he did not trust his own ac-
complice and we would never got a sight of it, if it hadn't been
for that fortunate accident last night."
"Charles!" his father admonished reproachfc
call fortunate, what put a human life in jeopardy?"
"W hy not, father? Is it not better that she should have broken
her husbands heart and ruined his rep it  n i
the bargain? She may well consider herself fortunate ' ve
escaped a fearful destiny with the slight penalty of a  w week's
confinement I(1 not bear her any grudge, father, indeed I
nthe contrary, I hope sincerely, that this accident Will
prove a salutary lesson for the future."
"Amen !" Mr. Fuchs struck in. "But you have forgotten to
l            mean to do in regard to this communication?"
"Disregard it of course. On Sunday my time is up and then
never mind father ! trust me another week, and all will come out
ht. For the present it is sufficient, that a second cloud has
mercifully passed us, without sending the destructive thunder-
lt. ie will be safe from the revenue officers unless Wood
should deem proper to write another letter, which I deem rather
improbable. The failure of the attempt to abduct Mrs. Foe
must have been a serious shock to him and may debar him from
hostile acts; How he must have hated Mr. Fox, to do,
him so much injury !"


DOLORES.                  205

204 '1DOLORES.
"I think he did hate him and your mother actually warned Mr.
Fox a couple of years ago. But he paid no heed to it, and there-I
fore must now pay the penalty. He took it too light and so
you-pardon me, for saying that -much-and it gives me much
annoyance to think that you-though unintentionallyshould
have contributed to his ruin."
Charlesremained unmoved.
"Father" he said "would it not be a little more charitable, to
wait awhile before pronouncing judgment on my actions? I  need
but say a word, to clear me of your accusations, but it is against
my conscience to say that word and I shall leave it unsaid."
"Beit so Charlie! be it so!" the father answered, eagerly dI take
your word, as readily as the best evidence you might produce.
Are there any new measures you contemplate?"
"None, father, just now. We must work up the raw material
judiciously, neither too fast, nor too slowly. We do not know,
how soon Mr. Fox will send a new supply and yet it would not
do, to stop the hands or dismiss a few. We must avoid every-
thing, that might create dissatisfaction."
"That is true, Charlie. Fortunately we have enough on hand
to do us 3 or 4 weeks. In the mean time Mr. Fox will likely
send us more."
"Exactly father" Charles said with a brightening countenance
" or I make a big haul of" which you little dream. No questions
Sir, no questions! I could not answer them."
"As you please Charlie, but I must ,go and mak hef  asn
through the factory. The master,s eyes make the horses fat as
we may say in -German and I am sure it is so.i Charles remained,
With these words he left the ofce,d whin Che rmain
throwing himself into an armchair and studying the situation
with a zeal, that surely deserved favorable results. And to judge
from hip appearance, he found results that were tolerably satisfac
tory; for after a series of eager nods and snappings of his fingers
he exclaimed:
, elaidoscoundrel has challenged us and
"So, that, will do. -A cunning scouhisuerofhthebcombat. Well,
staked his very existence upon the issue of the combat.Wel
let him tryhis best: know his cards and his highest trumps
shall be wasted upon our cause, as the blow of the sword that
bounds back from the polished shield and only jars the arm of
him that struck the blow."

CHAPTER XXII.
LOVE DAWNING--LOVE WANING.
In the cottage things went their quiet way. No noise was heard
from roof to cellar and silence thickened and became tangible in
and near the sick-chamber. None but the Doctor and the ladies
were allowed admittance and even of them never more than two
at the time. The patient grew better and worse or rather her re-
covery was interrupted and retarded by spells of fever, which
would return at regular intervals. At such hours the task. of
nursing her was not very easy. It did not only strain the body
-for at times the patient had to be retained on the bed b  i-
cation of physical force--but also the mind. To listen to the
ravings of the giddy brain, the incessant harping on the sinful
love, that had caused the flight and.sickness; the passionate ap-
peals to her seducer, to release her from her.bonds and the sad re-
proaches of a guilty conscience--all these things could not be
listened too, without a shock upon the hearer's mind. Lucy was
evidently sinking under it. One day coming from the room, she
threw herself into Dolores' arms and burst into such a flood of
passionate tears, that both Dolores and Mrs. Fuchs became
alarmed. The gentle, even disposition of the girl was so foreign
to these passionate gusts,,that on their appearance her friends
could not but apprehend a serious derangement of her nervous
system.
"I cannot stand it any longer" she cried amidst her, sobs in-
deed I cannot. When I hear her wild appeals to that wicked man
her earnest supplications of forgiveness I feel as if I sat in judg-
ment over her. I try to bend my heart to sympathy and compas-
sion; but oh Dolores, I cannot break myself to feelings of indul-
gence and, forgiveness. Do not let me go into that room an
longer, or I shall lose the control of my reason-yes, grow insane
without even the hope of recovery."
"Still Lucy !" Dolores now addressed her, drawing the quiver-
ing form nearer to her heart and stroking with a gentle hand the
disheveled hair. "Say nothing more at present- andweep away
the load, that threatens to overpower your strength. I understand
you, child and pity you. Oficourse, you must not watch in that
room any longer just at present, at least not when she wanders


206                     DOLORES.
in her fever. Leave that to me Lucy and to Mrs Fuchs; you can
do a thousand little things out here and in the kitchen, that willbe
just as welcome as your vigils in the sick-room. Indeed, if you
had not been so stubborn on your coming, you might have been
spared this trial."
"Oh Dolores!" Lucy answered, raising her head a little "I had
no idea what it is, to sit in judgment over a fallen mother. Don't
,don't these ravings ever shock you ?"
"They shock my reason without influencing my heart. I am
far from feeling any aversion to your poor mother, Lucy, I rather
love her better than before; for I pity her from the bottom of my
heart and compassion engenders affection. Perhaps it is selfish-
ness, that makes me feel so; perhaps I feel a satisfaction to see
her descending from that cold reserve, that distant coldness, to
which there was no chance of access. If Mrs. Fox recovers,-
and there is no more doubt of it, I think-I hope to find an ave-
nue to her heart and induce her to receive me in the same affec-
tion with which our good father regards me."
"And you can really forget, that she. ..." Lucy hesitated. She
seemed impossible for her to clothe her thought in words.
"Stop, Lucy" Dolores reproached her somewhat sternly "it
surely is not your province, to sit in judgment on your mother's
failings. To you she . has always been a good and indulging
mother. But it isn't my kind and gentle Lucy, that speaks; it is
a foreign voice engendered by this overworking of your mind and
body. Just rest yourself a while and I am sure these sickly,
overstrained notions will vanish of themselves and instead of
grieving on your injuries you will thank a kind dispensation 1r
its timely interference."I
Lucy did not reply; but from the lowered brow and compress-
sed lips it was evident, that she was as yet incapable of appreci
ting the spirit of her sister's remarks. When Mrs. Fuchs came
out a moment afterwards, Dolores stated Lucy's wishes to her
and that motherly friend at once consented to the change. Indeed,
she was glad of it and without delay took Lucy to the kitchen 1n
order to assign her task, that would employ her hands, without
taxing her brain, The young lady was not a very expert hand
in this new sphere, as her mother had made her form the notion.
that work of such a rough description was rather below

DOLORES.                       207
dignity; but she was willing and under Mr1s. Fuchs guidance did
well enough.
In the mean time Dolores had taken ner  position att
bed. This was the hour, when Mrs. Fox was at the height of fever
and must be watched with double care. Dolores seemed intended
for such Samaritan office, for she went to work so quietly, so un-
obstrusively, that many an older nurse might have learned from
her.
"Here! here! give me your hand!" the patient cried, fumbling
eagerly with her nervous fingers. "So, that does good; it stops
the fire within me. Lay the other on my head; lay it on,  stops
Ha! how that cools! You know I am doomed to burn; yes, burn
forever, because I listened to the serpent and tasted of  s buit
that is forbidden. Burn! burn! burn! =ah! to burn forever:uis
that thought not horrible? Away! let go. let go, I wantorow:s
myself in cooling water! Oh! water! water!"
"Yes here is water, mother; come let me lift your head, that
you may drink with greater ease. Dos it refresh you "
"Yes it does, it does; but who are you, that takes such compas-
sion on one that's doomed? You are an angel, are yo  'pos-
"No, madam, I am far from being one. I am onlDolore-
dont you know Dolores?"                                es:
"Yes I do know her; but you ain't Dolores. Dolores is
at the judgment seat, to testify against me. Oh so much tes
mony will crush me! They will heap more fire upon me    -
fire! more fire!"um, more
Again Dolores had to hold the patient, until the fever abated
and total relaxation followed the unnatural excitement- Mrs.
Fox lay with closed eyes and her breathing was so faint as to be
hardly perceptible. Yet Dolores could not withdraw her had
When she made a motion for that purpose, the weary lids o th
sufferer opened a little and a supplicating glance expressed wha
language could not.
Thus several days passed off, bringing only the slightest changes
of improvement. Finally on the fourth one the Doctor declared
er out of danger. "The crisis set in last night" he  d "andta
ood constitution and your excellent care have -caused the scale
fe to sink. The fever is over and the patient will no doubt re-
tn to consciousness and coherent talk. But the danger is by


no means entirely past. She will ask numerous questions,-'which
must be answered with great discretion; for the slightest shock,
an excitement or fright may bring on a relapse, which would cer-
tainly be fatal. It will be best, to let only Dolores be about her
for a while."
"Would not Lucy answer better?" Mrs. Fuchs inquired "her
face is more familiar."
"That may all be; but I have noticed, that the presence of Dol-
ores has something soothing to the patient, and we ought to take
the hints of nature in preference to our own opinion. No, let Dol-
ores stay with her and I guarantee that all will soon be well."
"But Dolores is going to kill herself with this everlasting watch-
ing Doctor: don't you see, how thin she looks?"
"Never mind my looks aunty" Dolores answered with a laugh,
that was fresh. enough under the circumstances "I am not the
least fatigued and can stand it a good while longer. Pst, she is
stirring. You talk .to the Doctor, I Inust go in.".
When she took her seat at the bedside, she thought she noticed
a profuse perspiration on the foreheadf the patient. At this she
greatly rejoiced since the Doctor had said that every thing would
go right, if only that symptom would make its appearance. She
drew the cover higher on the body of the convalescent to keep
her warm and promote the perspiration. While she was doing
this with her head and shoulders bent over the bed, Mrs. Fox
opened her eyes. For the first time they looked clearly and intel
ligently wandering over the room and at last adhering to thelovely
countenance bending over her., She smiled and with feeble accent
asked:
"Dol, is that you?"
The girl's eye shone with radiance. Never before had.Mrs. Fox
called her that familiar name. She nodded in reply, looking ex-
tremely happy and casting as it were the reflection of her rosy
countenance on the pale cheeks of 'the patient. Mrs.'Fox closed
her eyes again-perhaps she was unable to stand so much light
all at once-but only for a minute. Opening them a second time.
"Whereg I?"
"With friends, dear madam, who rejoice at your recovery."
"I have been sick?"
"Yes madam."

DOLORES.

208,


"Very sick?'
"The doctor tells us so; but you are past all danger now-indeed
the doctor said you would be free of fever."
"Good girl! but this is not my room-where am I?"
Mrs. Fox' look expressed some anguish and therefore Dolores
hastened to reply:
"Amongst your friends, dear' madam. Let that suffice you,
come ask no more questions now. tHere take a sip of this cool-
ing lemonade I have prepared for you. So, that will do!  Now
close your eyes and sleep, I'll keep you company."
With one hand she stroked the patient's face closing the weary
eyes, that yielded readily to the kind persuasion; and with the
other took and held the emaciated fingers. Soon the soothing
influence stole over the weakene d frame. The eyes closed more&amp;
firmly, the breath increased in strength, and the bosom rose and
fell-in regular tempo. A mysterious fluid, which the physicians
call with learned names, but which is nevertheless a mystery to
them, emanated from the point of the nurse's fingers and creep-
ing along the thousand nerves of the convalescent, imparted to
them new tone and vigor. Mrs. Fox slept soundly for more than
an hour and mean while Dolores hadtto sit perfectly still and con-
tinue sending the stream of life in gentle waves 'all over the feeble
body. At length the patient awoke again and this time at once
sent out her glance in search of her nurse. Having found her,
she let it dwell upon her face with so much love and fervor, that
it went into the girl's innermost heart, and filled it with a rapture,
that made her feel like shouting with delight. Still she remained
perfectly quiet, until Mrs Fox began:
"Doi, tell me, where I am, I feel strong enough to hear it."
Dolores reflected a second.  By hesitating she would excite
the patient more than by a prompt statement of the truth. If
Mrs. Fox should try to make deductions and further inquiries, it
would still be time, to check her and advance the Doctor's pos-
itive orders as a screen behind which she might retreat. So she-
frankly answered :
"You are at the cottage, madam, you know, Mr. Fuchs' resi-
dence."
"But how. . .."
"How you got there, you mean? That is hard to tell.  You
14

" DOLORES.

'209


must have wandered from our house, in a fever, for you were
found insensible=at the gate here. The Doctor was summoned
without delay and pronounced your malady a typhoid fever." '
Mrs. Fox listened as if in a dream. Slowly her memory began
to act and she gained a dim vison of the past.  But that state-
ment of Dolores ? Was she deceived or trying to deceive? Firmly
her gaze fastened upon the girl's features; but Dolores knew, what
was at stake and with heroic courage stood the test.  Mrs. Fox
seemed satisfied; a sigh of relief escaped her bosom, and dismis-
sing a vague apprehension she delivered herself solely to the new
love that had suddenly sprung up within her bosom. Tears started
to her eyes, welling up spontaneously from her heart and she
tried to lift her arms, as if she wanted to fold the girl in her em-
brace.- But she was too weak and the name of her nurse, feebly
whispered was all the manifestation she was able to make.  But
the language of love speaks eloquently even in whispers, and no
sooner had Dolores heard her name, when, sinking on her knees
before the bed, she kissed the emaciated hands and said:
"Dear Mrs. Fox, what do you wish? what can I do for you?"
"I want you, to call me mother."
"My mother!"
deep emotion prevented both from speaking; but when Dol-
ores had sufficiently recovered, she all at once was frightened at
the thought, that this might be injurious to the patient. So she
arose and with a beseeching look said to her newly gained friend:
"Please be calm now! This is all wrong and Doctor Palmer
will scold me for neglecting-his directions. This excitement will
injure you, mother."
Poor child! she wanted to cure the patient from the intoxica-
tion under which she labored and yet continued to apply the sti-
mulant.
Mrs. Fox shook her head with a happy smile :
"Fear nothing, Dol," she said "this will not hurt me, darling.
It is a medicine, that will promote my convalescence: 1 feel it
does me good."
"So much the better, mther; but now it is enough and you
must sleep again. Here is your medicine ; it is time to take it;
So! now sleep yourself well; I shall not leave, you for a moment."
Mi's. Fox obeyed her like a child. Holding Dolores' hand- as

firmly, as her feeble strength permitted, she closed
soon once more slumbered towards new heatherd h  eyes and
yes towards a new life. Poor Dolores had t  - an  frh. .
without a motion, for sickness is Very apt to sit again forihours
and tyrants worse than which the annals of hstake us egotists
during this spell of sleep the Iloctor called, butc benot sho
ss   the appearance of things he         eig fully
wakening the patient.                   went awaywithout
and Luemends faster, than I dared to hope" he said to M
du     y and I sincerely think, that it is due to the magnetichin-
fluence of that wonderful girl in there. If Mrs. Fox, after her
recovery, does not hold her as her most precio  -ewx, after her
not deserve her good fortune of having clearewel, she dof
death."                                          e gates of
Away he went and minute after minute ran b  wanted
Silently, quietly, as if they feared to check th  onehaste,
enthe patient in the sickroom. The clock seemeCdonticence
gently and the sunbeams to moderate their light.      me
the evening when Mrs.gFo- It was late in
t   her eni  went Mrs.sox awoke from her second nap. As
usul hr ees  entinsearch of Dolores; her hand byagnl
pressure seemed desirous of ascertaining he pres an d gentle
thus satisfied, the patient said:ein
"Icam hungry."
Sick persons are like children. They speak their wants
feel them. It seems their weakness neutralizes th contol, whey
iaming has acquired over our instincts andntrongs.
"I am glad, to hear it, mote".(tseedt    eeiso.uc
delight to use that word, that she lost no oPportuivey er so much
Irs Fus epreparethe nicest gruel for you and I shall
go out a moment, to-fchaitsin."
"No Do, dont go. Can't you call Lucy in--where is 
before had expected this question and nerved  erse
that thed otie      so far succeeded in persuading Mrs. 0Frx,
thttemtves of her late nocturnal dons®axntcoet
light. Thi-secnocturnal doings had ntcm
Dolh   Tis conviction seemed to have soothed the patient and
Doores considered it expedient, to sustain it, until Mrs.ient as
strong enough to decide on her course of conduct  If sh oxwas
to make a clean breast of it to her husband, it  a she wanted
to do so: if on the other hand she thought bestpa to  hethep

.21o

3 T M,
'   i                               I           5 h                i'1             _k  M1'~ Y

DOLORES.

DOLORES*

A J r


212                     DOLORES.
in oblivion, the measures of Dolores were calculated to support
he'-Mrs. Fuchs had sanctioned 'them and promised to inform
Lucy and induce her, to conceal from her mother any emotions
calculated to destroy her assurance. As yet however Dolores did
not know, how Mrs. Fuchs had succeeded and this uncertainty
induced her to dely a meeting, which might result disastrously.
So she said:
"She must not see you for a little while yet; the Doctor thinks
an interview with her might. excite and therefore injure you. The
Doctor's veto is the patient's law, you kncw mother and you must
submit to it. To-morrow you may be strong enough to see your
daughter.".
After finishing, Dolores awaited the reply of Mrs. Fox with a
beating heart. What if she should fret? if she should insist upon
an interview, before the wounded feelings of her daughter had had
time to heal? She was therefore greatly relieved, when the pat-
ient with evident indifference acquiesced in the decision and
merely said :
"As you please, child; but I am hungry, very hungry."
"Oh! you shall eat, mother, of course you shall.. Just allow
me, to step to the door and call Mrs. Fuchs."
This was done and a minute afterwards the hostess entered
with a little dish containing the promised nourishment.
"Here is your soup, my dear madam" she said without any in-
troduction, acting as if the presence of the convalescent in her
house was a matter of course. "Dol sit on the bed and support
the head of Mrs. Fox, while I feed her with the spoon."
"That is the way with sick folks" she continued with a pleas-
ant smile "they are like little children and have to be fed. They
cry too, sometimes, when they dont get, what they want; but as
with the children, their crying makes us happy, because it indicates
the change, the return to health and strength. How do you like
your soup, madam?"
"It is so good; and you are good and kind, Mrs. Fuchs. I
must have caused you great annoyance."
"Tut! tut! don't say a word about it now, unless you want to
make me scold you. The little trouble is of no account com-
pared with the happiness it gives me, to see you recover under
my hands, as it were."

The patient smiled; but when she wanted to speak, Mrs. Fuchs
checed er saying :
"Just you lie still, dear madam, and don't s
you to get well right.fast and, to secure that object, must insist oa
rest and sleep. Do you think, you could get a nap after your lit-
tie meal?",ganaafeyorit
"I'll try."
And she did' try and soon her regular breathing indicated a
sound slumber. Dolores also caught a little sleep;1 lning ic k
in a rockingchair, the patient's hand still enclosed in hers, she
y an   slept till near midnight, when the voice of Mrs F
aroused her. She straightened up with a start and the look sh
cast upon the patient bore an expression of anxiety. Still  e
thing was right.
"I am sorry to disturb you, Dol; but I   -
would you please reach me a little water ?"
"Of course I will and I a1m sorry, that I suffered myself to be
'overcome by sleep."
"I am not sorry, Dol, for I fear you are wearing your strength
away by these incessant vi-gls. But I hope I shall soon be well
now and then we shall change relations and I shall nurse you as
you have never been nursed before."
"But I don't want to get sick."
"Nor do I want you to; but I shall nurse you sick or not
sick; I shall try to seebwhether I cannot spoil you a little bit.
To tell you the truth, ol, it has always worried mt, to see you
so nearly perfect, and so little subject to the weaknesses of hu-
upon myr hour conduct was somewhat of a mute reproach
upon my shor'tcoming.s"
"Now, don't talk so, mother; partly because I oughn't to hear
S     partly because you oughtn't to talk at all.  Suppose you
try another dose of sleep.",-,poe.o
"Yes my dear girl, I shall obey your wishes; but is there nothing
t gruel left? Feel as hungry as a bear, and if I hav
gruel, I might make an attempt at you. Oh JDol! I   e o
much that I could eat you up.".                 l   y
D olores  did  not  know  w hether she  w seer e  ch a ha  t  the
manfesatins f' ffetio orat the cheerful character theyT bore.

,21

DOLORES.


.I,

214

DOLORES.

She kissed the patient repeatedly and in her embraces Mrs. Fox
passed over into'the land of dreams.
On the morning her improvement was even more visible. She
repeatedly asked for her daughter Lucy and Dolores went in
search of her, in order to ascertain, whether it would be safe to"
allow an interview. Lucy's swollen eyes showed, that she had
wept mu'ch; but Dolores found her much more calm and resigned,
and in answer to her inquiry received the assurance that she felt
strong enough to see her mother.
The girl was an enigma to Dolores. She wondered, that one.
so feeble in intellect, so free from passions should show so pas-
sionate a repugnance to the manifestations of weakness in others.
She did not know the world; if she had, she would have learned,
that it is not the character of little minds, to be tolerant and in-
dulgent. The greater the soul; the wider the scope of vision and
thought, the greater also the virtues of generosity and magnan-
imity.
"Come then" Dolores said to her "your mother wants to see
you. Recollect however, that on your firmness her whole chance
of future happiness depends. Show yourself weak, and you will
doubtless plunge her into a sea of trouble and wretchedness, that
may only cease with her life."
"I can bear to see her, Dolores," Lucy replied and, indeed, the
girl's countenance bore the stamp of greater resolution, than one
was wont to see there.
When the two entered the chamber, Mrs. Fox stretched her
hands towards them.
"My daughters! both my daughters !" she said as ardently as
her weakness would allow. "I praise myself happy indeed, that
by grievous affliction I was enabled to increase the number of my
children."
Neither of the girls spoke a word in reply. Dolores .knelt at
the bedside, drawing 'down her rather unwilling companion.
Once there however and her mother's hand resting upon her head,
Lucy found tears, and wee-rftng bitterly felt the chill of her
heart melting away with the copious stream that rolled down her
cheeks. Fortunately Mrs. Fox attributed her daughter's tears to
the anguish of the days of danger now past, and stroking her
golden curls, tried to comfort her:

DOLORES.

25

"Don't, Lucy" she said "our friends here tel me, that i am
getting well and I know from my feelings, that they do not de-
ceive me. Cheer up then, darling, and show by a joyful counten-
ance that you rejoice at your mother's recovery."
But Lucy could not persuade herself, to go that far. To smile
would be as much as saying, that she was glad and happy, and in
her uncharitable mood such a deception did not seem justifiable
to her. To stop her weeping was all she managed to accomplish
and the rigid features of her countenance might have struck even
Mrs. Fox as something strange, if she had not always been ac-
customed 'to a negative affection in her daughter and if on the
other hand Dolores had not attracted her attention in an unusual
degree. So the interview passed off without any evil consequen-
ces, Dolores excusing Lucy's withdrawal on the plea of house-
hold affairs, and Mrs. Fox accepting the excuse with a coolness
rather unacountable to the foster-daughter, When Lucy left the
room, a new feeling had nestled in her heart, a feeling so bitter
and tantalizing, that she would gladly have exchanged it for the
previous coldness. Perhaps, she could not have defined it her-
self, if any persons had asked her questions ; but one that knows
the human heart and has had sufficient experience in the fickle-
ness and utter inconsistency of emotions, would without hesita-
tion have told us, that jealousy had struck its poisonous fangs
into Lucy's bosom. Jealousy? how is that possible? We are
aware, that jealousy begrudges the participation in a boon we
value highly,--but can we also fall a prey to that passion, if a
stranger shares with' us the affection of a party, we little love?
The case of Lucyseems to answer in the a rmative and we can
but wonder at this strange contradiction of her feelings. Or
could'it be barely possible; that her mother's love again rose in
her estimation in proportion as she saw the danger of a stranger's
appropriating to herself the fairest portion? Children often
value toys, because other children possess them, and for the same
reason covet things, which they themselves had frequently rejected
with disdain.
In one respect Lucy was a child; but this new passion took
away from her the harmlessness of a child. Alas ! poor Dolores
little dreamed, that she only gained a mother's love at the ex-
pense of a sister's affection.

-          0


CHAPTER XXIII.
THE CAVE AGAIN.
Four days had passed without bringing Mr. Fox or even a. let-
ter or dispatch from him. The convalescent had been cautiously. -
informed of her husband's absence and the communication had
evidently much more affected her, than the first interview with her
daughter. Still she received in resignation the daily reports- of
his prolonged absence and made it difficult for her friends to learn
whether she looked with fear or hope towards the hour of re-
union.
Not so Charles. He had cause to wish Mr. Fox' presence for
many reasons. Letters of importance were received every day,
that had to be answered without delay, and Charles began to un-
derstand, that the management of such an establishment requires
something' more than mere energy and intelligence ; to be success-
ful, the manager must have experience and that qualification time
alone can give. Fortunately his father had this requirement in a
high degree, and under ordinary circumstances the partnership
might have answered very well. But the whole mechanism had
got out of order by Wood's fault and Mr. Fuchs regularly shrank
from measures, which his judgment had acknowledged as equally
necessary and daring. The fact, that they had not made the cir-
cumstances and that the circumstances left not the shadow of a
choice, did not console Mr. Fuchs much and he labored under
his responsibility like a vessel, that carries too great a pressure
of canvass on a disproportionate mast.
But if, for his father's sake, Charles was anxious to see Mr. Fox
return, with a pocket full of money, to satisfy pressing creditors,
he had within himself a romantic element, which delighted in ex-
traordinary situations and looked for channels of assistance
which the ordinary world would have ridiculed. The diary of
his female ancestors and the letter of Eberhardt, containing the
allusion to a testament had never entirely deserted his mind. Even
in the pressure of business, Charles saw tempting visions danc-
ing before his mental eye and it was only by a firm resolve, that
he banished them  sufficiently to allow him, to attend to other
and more important matters. His excitement of course increased
as the day approached, that freed him from all obligations ofQ

DOLORES.

secrecy. The evening before he had found an opportunity to
whisper to Dolores, that he wanted her company for the afternoon
of the next day. But wanting and obtaining are two different
things; so Charles thought best, to take the matter in his own
hands and work it to the desired issue.
"Mother" he said after supper "it is a shame the way you con-
fine Dolores to the sickroom."
"But Charlie, Mrs. Fox will not let her go; she seems to be un-
able to get along without her."
"If she is no more reasonable, she will have to do. without her;
for this constant strain will make her sick. As long as Mrs. Fox
was in danger, I didn't object taking the absolute necessity as a
consolation. But now she is out of danger and I do object de-
cidedly."
Mrs. Fuchs smiled.
"Charlie, what are you driving at? Why dont you come for-
ward like a man and tell your mother, what you want?"
Charles blushed lightly.
"Want?" lie said s'nothing particularly, but I want Dolores to
have air and exercise."
,"And propose for that purpose...."
"A boat ride on the ocean. I know she likes that well...."
"And I know, that fr. Charles likes that well and that I was
rglit in thinking, that some selfish motive was liing at the bot-
tom of all this philanthropic talk."
Charles had to laugh in spite of himself.
"You are too smart for me, mother" lie said. "But supposing
you were right, I dont see that alters the case any. Dol needs
air and.exercise and it matters little, in whose company she enjoys
them."
"You are right Charlie and I'll try to second you in this affair
When do you want Dol?"
"To-morrow, after dinner. I could not well be absent from the
factory a whole day."
"Nor she from the cottage."
"Well then, let us have the afternoon. But mind, I want no
company; neither Henry nor uncle Jacob."
"That is a pity, Jacob is getting so bothersome in the house, I
would gladly spare him for a whole day."

Y

DOLOREs:

216-

217-


218                       DOLORES.
"Well if you. promise to' disengage Dolores I shall free you
froth uncle Jacob for a whole day. All I have to do, is to send
him on a fool's errand."
"Be careful how to treat him Charlie. He is yonr father's,
brother and though not examplary in every thing entitled to
.respect."
"Oh! I respect him hugely! So much indeed that I would
never come to near him if I could help it. Still he must be borne
with that is a fact. He knows all the circumstances of Mrs. Fox',
sickbed and could to her infinite harm, if he chose to set his
tongue in motion."
"True enough! I never thought of that: a double reason to
treat him with due caution."
"I shall be careful, mother. But he is very intimate with Henry,
if any mischief is brewing, it surely will spring from this union
of two kindred spirits."
"You are hard on your brother."~
"I cannot help it, mother. It makes me impatient to think of
that lazy goodfornothing drone. I wonder where he got his love
of idleness. It surely is neither in you nor in father-he must
have got it from his uncle."
"    oMao be he has, I am glad you mention this matter, for I shall
now have my eyes upon them."
"It will do no harm, mother; though for the present I have
managed to secure uncle Jacob's sympathy in our behalf, Unless
eandseit his advantage to secure my enmity, he will be careful
to abstain from all gossip in regard to Mrs. Fox I forbade him,
even to make Henry his confident."
"The conversation closing, Mrs. Fuchs went to the sickroom,
for the purpose of recognizing the ground and making prepara-
tions- for a general assault upon the fortress. An hour after-
vards she returned and made Charles happy with the assurance
that the excursion had already been decided upon, and that other
circumstances being favorable the convalescent would hardly raise
any objections.
In consequence of this communication Charles without delay
entered upon an activity, that was as noiseless as efficient. Going
no his workshop he secured a revolver with the necessary ammiv
titiod and various tools, adapted to digging in the ground.

DOLORES.                       219
With the revolver in his pocket and the tools on his shoulders
he managed to leave the house and reach the boat unseen. There
he locked all the articles in a chest, whose cover, as we have seeki
on another occasion, served as a seat and then with a lighter
heart returned home to wait for the momentous hour.
That night Charles did not sleeps'much. Slowly the hours or
darkness passed away; and the morning hours in the office of the
factory'not much faster. At last the whistle proclaimed the mid-
dle of the day and Charles walked to the cottage so quickly that.
Mr. Fuchs could hardly keep up with him.
The young man was still afraid, that something would happen
to spoil this double pleasure for him; and when at last dinner
was over and Dolores with a becoming blush presented herself to
him as ready for the excursion, he.hardly accepted it as a matter
of fact, but rather as an illusion that would flow into shapeless
mist on the first contact with reality. But when they left the
cottage and walked towards the bay, her arm leaning.for support
on his own as of old, he became tolerably well assured, that he
was not dreaming and displayed a gay humor which was in keep-
ing with the occasion and the day. The latter was a copy of the.
one that had witnessed their first joint attempt upon the sea, shin-
ing with all the brilliancy and radiance of a northern autumn day.
Dolores could not help recalling the adventures of that eventful
day. How things had changed since. . How some actors had left
.the stage, to make room for others! How she herself had grown
and changed ! Yet she was to embark in the very~boat that bore
her then and the same nimble handsome youth, that led her steps
two years ago, was at her side. But Henry? His absence caused
her thoughts to turn upon him.
"Where is Henry?" she asked her friend "did lie refuse to ac-
company us? If I recollect right, I have seen neither him nor
your uncle in the cottage at breakfast or dinner."
Charles laughed:
"They had no, time to waitfor breakfast this-morning" he
said "so they took a bite and started off at a good speed."
"But where did they go?"
"To chase  wild oose and ride uncle's hobby."
"You mean, they hunt the testament?"


a

220

DOLORES.

lawyer nearly seventy years of age, who has always had a great
Ipractise and is more likely to know of any such instrument, in
case it does exist-than any other man of his profession. To put
uncle on the scent, was all that was required; he shot off like a
well trained pointer and by this time undoubtedly is boring old
Mr. Sharp to death with his questions."
"But Charlie ,will our expedition be any less of a wild goose
ch se, than theirs?"
'Yes Dol considerably. We know at least the nest of the bird
and if we fail to find any eggs there, we will at once be satisfied
that there is no use, in hunting them at any .otherplace. But
here is the boat Dol. Jump in while I erect the mast and loosen
the chain."
Soon the boat was in sailing trim and the paig started on it
errand. This time the straight course to the rocky island was
str  ck and that reached, the entrance to the wider channel was
gained. Here the sail was taken down and the oar substituted
an l assisted by his previous knowledge, Charles soon reached the
last basin before the cave. On their way they had found the track
clear; no sign of any vessel had shown itself and Charles was
th refore reasonable certain that they would this time remain un-
m1 lested by foreign intruders. Still lie thought best to prepare
fo the worst;1 so, opening his chest, he armed himself with his
re toluer placing it ready for immediate use and after that took
out the tools. -'t
oNow Dol, look out for your head" he said "we are going to
rbss the Rubicon."
t'he boat entered the fissure and half a minute afterwards they
ce more swain on the basin within the cave. There waste
sme old beautiful twilight, the somber shade, the trembling
streaks of light on the walls, the looming vault, the deep mysteri-
ous silence. The recollection of the first visit and the exciting
:adventure rose so vividly within their minds; as to cast its shadow
to the present hour. They could not help feeling a little nervous
and Charles said:
"Come, Dol, let us go to work. If we indulge too long in con-
tempitation of the beauty of this place, we shall get so sentimentalee
your hand now, to alight. What a beautiful sand this is."

DOLORES.                        22L
"Yes fit to grace the halls of any king of old. What do you
mean to do now?"
"I mean first to pay a visit to the rear cave. I put a dark lant«
ern in my pocket, that will now do us good service."
He set to work lighting the lantern and meanwhile Dolores
asked him ihat he expected to find there.
"I have reasons to believe, that the 'cave contains a cargo of
steel. Wood left it there, to serve as a trap for Mr. Fox to fall
into: instead of that it shall do us good service and partly indem-
nify us for'the superintendent's rascalities. But we must not sell
the bear's hide, before we catch the animal; so away with specu-
lations. Come, Dol, reach me your hand and forward into the
laws of H-ades!"
He laughed but started a little, when his mirth awoke a loud
echo in the cave, that filled it with its verberations.
"Listen! the spirits of the cave are mocking you !"
"Let them mock; if they only resign to us the treasures in their
dare."
"But people say, treasures are watched by evil malignant spirits
it would hardly do to provoke their ire."
"I do not fear them, as long as my good spirit is leading -m."
"Why Charlie" Dolores answered with a laugh "if that come
pliment refers to my humble person; you had better reverse yom
figure of speech. If my senses do not deceive me I am a spirit
led ,not leading."
The young man had no time to answer to her raillery; for th
had meanwhile traversed the p ssage and, now stood within t
second cave. Charles opened 1 is lantern and when its light shot.
through the specious vault a sl out of joy burst from his lips
Piled up in formidable rows large numbers of the well-k1nown
boxes displayed themselves to their view. Charles could hot in'a
moment form an estimate of their value; but he knew that they
were very valuable and that if he appropriated them for his em-
Il)oyer, he would find nobody to dispute his claims. But the
sword of Damocles was still hanging over their heads and an un-
timely visit ion the pai:t of the revenue-officers was apt to spoil
the game. Opposed as the young man was to smuggling
claimed the right of Mr. Fox to appropriate this cargo  tee
on account of the losses he had sustained by the sperintend


222                   DOLORES.
cuts fraudulent transactions. He did not know the shipper and
did not care to learn his name. If he was bold enough to come
and advance his claims-then it would still, be time to consider
the expediency of surrendering the goods, or pay for them.
This reasoning might perhaps not have stood the test of logic;
but it was natural under the circumstances and such as a fair-
minded person would hardly have objected to.
"I must engage a few trusty persons, to land this cargo," Char-
lie remarked to his companion "it would be too dangerous to
leave it here any length of time."
"But does it belong to us, Charlie?"
"I think it does. It has certainly been paid for by money out
Mr. Fox' pocket. We cannot think of relinquishing it now."
"Well you know best: what next do you intend to undertake?"
"Oh yes ! I am glad you put me in mind of it. We must now
search for uncle Eberhardt's last will and----maybe-treasures."
"And you have really any hope of finding it?"
"Why not, Dol? It was made-we know that from his own
testimony. It was nlot recorded, or the books of some court or
other would contain it: why then not think, that it may be hid-
den in a place where the writer found a sudden death?"-
S"And where do you think of searching first?"
"There, where the skeleton is lying in the front cave."
"Br! I shudder at the idea of disturbing the pirate's remains."
"The thought is not pleasant; but it must be entertained and
acted upon, if we want to make any discoveries. Just think of
him returning from the cave. Hardly able to stand, he reaches
the precints of fhe cave. He lands and sinks upon the ground;
his'blood is oozing from his wounds in spite of all efforts to stop
its flow. He grows weaker and with approaching death the burn- .
ing passion of his restless ,heart flames once more up with its
.     former brillancy. His thoughts turn to the love of his youth; the
testament in which he gave his all unto her children becomes fore-
most in his mind. . Reason is already waning and his instinct be-
comes supreme. Like the faithful dog, intrusted with the keeping.
of a treasure he gathers the last strength to make an effort of
reaching the spot, where the will is buried. The task is painful
in the extreme; but he bends an iron will to its achievement and

DOLOREs.                       223
he succeeds. He covers the ground where his secret dies with
him and with a sigh of relief his soul parts from his body."
"Ah! you paint lively, Charles" Dolores whispered with a shud-
der having grasped her companion's arm more firmly as he pro-
ceeded. Methinks I see him now. Say nothing 'ore about him
please. I am not supertitious, you know, but I feel as if your
eloquent description could conjure his spirit into life.''
"Well you shall have your way, Dol. I do not wish to disturb
his soul, unless it is like that of the Spanish licentiate which was
buried on the wayside. You recollect the clever student, that
lifted his saul in the shape of genuine coubloans. To such a re-
surrection I should have no objections whatever. But reallywe
chat as if it was our object, to talk us into courage. Come now;
let us begin, or we shall not get through to-day."
With these words he retraced his steps carrying the lantern in
one hand and leading Dolores by the other. Having reache the
front cave, he blew out the lantern, the sunlight creeping through
the fissures of the racks illuminating it sufficiently for his pur-
pose. Then taking a shovel he approached the spot where the
decaying skeleton was lying. He felt an unpleasant sensation
creeping over his body, when the tool touched the first bone;
but nerving himself and laughing at his own folly, he went to
work with a zest, that soon accomplished his purpose. When the
place was cleared, the young man stopped and begging his com-
panion to come up, laid the pick into her hand.
"I don't want to be better than you in the way of superstition"
he said gaily. Just drive in- the gick for a beginning: it will bring
me good look."
She complied with a light laugh and then returned the tool
which he handled with a good will. But the ground was dry and
loose and he soon found that the shovel would do the work alone.
Throwing the sand to one side, he had penetrated to the depth of
A. foot and a half; when the shovel struck on something solid.
Dolores heard it and in her excitement could not prevent a light
cry from escaping her lips. Charles did not cry, but he was
hardly less affected and obliged to stop working for a moment.
"There! see, what a fool I am" he said stretching his trembling
hand towards Dolores "Simply, because my shovel strike as


224

DOLORES.

body, that may be nothing but a board or worthless box, I fall a
prey to an excitement, of which I ought to be ashamed."
"But, you surely struck upon a box, Charlie" she said eagerly.
"Well supposing I did, child, where is the difference? We
study the works of ancient and modern philosophers ; we can't
upon the vanity of gold and yet when we cafch a mere glimgse of
its lustre; we get into extasies and forget our lessons like the
poodle does his tricks, when he sees a chance at mutton chops."
"But why don't you proceed Charlie?"
"Talking, Dol?"
j'No digging, sir. You know very well what I meant."
"I stop for twoi'easons, Dol. Firstly, I want to punish you
and me for this want of equanimity and secondly I want to steady
my nerves for further efforts. If I give way at the sound of an
olcboard, where will I be when my eye lights' on treasures like
Aladdin's?"
"Charlie I never knew, what a great talker you could be."
"That will do Dol. Say nothing more, for here it goes."
Again the sand flew from the hole and a repeated striking on
the substance underneath gave proof beyond a doubt, that it was
a board in a horizontal position which impeded their progress.
In her zeal to see, Dolores came nearer and nearer and both she
acid Charles had by this time lost every recollection of the bones.
They began to feel that sfrange mysterious influence, which magic
gold exercises over the calmest of men. - Mind, they didn't know
as yet, whether they would strike a golden vein or not-the mere
prospect was sufficient, to make their eyes sparkle with Jeen sus-
pense, their nostrils widen like the steed's that that scents the
bloody battle. The bloodhound can not more eagerly pursue the
track of the runaway, than man follows up the track of gold. Yes,
gold is powerful on earth, more powerful, than we might wish for
the sake of mankind; but no teaching of philosophy, nor preach-
ing of the gospel will much affect the case. I am pretty sure,
that if such a chance should present itself to me jnstnow, I should
lay down my pen and stopping these reflections, grasp for the pre-
cious metal as greedily as'most other persons.
Charles pnd Dolores' were noble specimens of their kind and if
the good, the virtuyus are thus affected by the thought of gold,
what may we expect of the warshippers of sin and mammon? Is

DOLORES.                       22,
It a w'ondCert, that so nIa                            225lme
iNo, wonder thso mar   crimes are committed in the diggings?
N1o, we are to marvel that matters ar ntWose ha poled
not ct t suh paces niater are not worse, that people do
not act at such places, as if all the demons of hell were driving
them to sin and death. That even the gold fields of Australia,
California, and Nevada show instances, numerous instances of
public and private virtue is apt, to impress us with a high opinion
of man's spiritual condition.
Now the sand is all removed and a board that has perhaps been
abre tere for tho, tnany years, comes to light. But it isn't
fo mere board, for tho' the edges lie free from the ground, the ef-
fotto turn it up with the shovel, l .oesil
Jt is a box, beyond all doubt, and in the excie
covery Charles applies most chilish means to raise it from the
ground. Kneeling dow-ni ensthrieetfrmthe
gundi th  eia on  he1)11115 and tugsdand lifts and pushes,
until the perspiration roll -fro  his forehead to the gronnd and a
merry laughter on the lart of Dolores calls him to his senses.
iCn  f oi t t  "  e 'ried, joining m her mirth and spring-
lrto his feet.  ot sticks in there as tight as if a dozen imps
Wiesre i con it.!    mist enlarge the hole, and loosen the
Tides, efroma t expect to lift it from the ground."
To judge from the cover the 1ox seemed to e about two feet
square, the third d pension as sticking in the ground, remaining
largerenouh to wals therefore no small labor, to dig out a cavity,
laged, eoe Colow room on all sides of the box and a full hour
elapsed, before Charles accomplished the task. The box was
bundrth  ottoe and lteo ie succeeded in getting his fingers
under" the bottom  and lifted with all lte  n''  ,  his might, he did not sl
ceed in raising it more than a line O htwo.
This weight was a favorable indication.
"Dol" Charles said seriously "that chest contains either lead or
open and fnd it  oul make it so heavy. If I should break it
disapoint   to contain the former metal--could yon bear the
"Yes Charlie I think I coult1-
"Yes  harle I hinkI coltough I must confess, that it
would be a disappointment. I neverough  t    , that    it
trash could so engross our mind."
"Nor I, Dol, to tell the truth. If any man should now order
me this place, I would oraw my revolver to defend it. Still
e mus l  15pr ousle  ose our golden expectations dissolve


226                     DOLORES.
in vapor. I could never pardon myself for having first aroused
and then disappointed your expectation, unless I knew, that in
such a case your peace of mind would suffer no lasting detriment."
"Oh! Charlie, it is not as bad as that. Just work away, I think
I can bear the consequences like a stoic, no matter how the thing
may turn out."
"Well then, here is the pick,-which will soon settle the question.
A couple of blows well applied and the cover will spring: hold
your breath Dol !"
Down the pick went between the over and side board, but the
box was stronger than Charles had fancied. Strong hinges held it
on one side and a massive padlock on the other and in spite of
lifting and tugging the first blow made little impression. The
second one, dealt with even greater force somewhat widened the
crack produced by its predecessor, but it wasn't until a full dozen
had been spent upon the cover, that it finally yielded with a crash
and in consequence of a jerk with the pickax flew back. Eagerly
four eyes send their glances in the box, but another obstaele in
shape of a piece of oilcloth impeded their view. This/ cover being
also removed by the trembling hand of Charles some parchments
made their appearance and between them and beside them round
coins of large size and yellow color, on which the feeble light of
the cave awoke a fait reflection.
"The testament!"
"The gold!"
After this simultaneous cries deep silence. It was true, reality!
Their boldest expectations had been realized, yes more than
realized, for if that whole box was filled that way-their fancy
was slow in furnishing figures large enough to meet the truth.
There was gold in masses, in larger heaps, than these young peo-
ple had ever seen or dreamt them. There was also the testament
of the former owner, by virtue of which they, without doubt, were
installed as proper heirs. Charles took it up as if in a dream and
glancing over the contents, convinced himself of the correctness
of his supposition.
"Well, Dol, what now? he suddenly addressed the girl, turning
abruptly to her., "Are you satisfied with my sagacity? Was I
correct in my conjectures ?"
"Yes Charlie, you were right; but don't speak to me just now!

DOLORES.
227
I cannot think, I can but gaze. Gold! gold! gd!
gold!"go                                    oh so much
He looked alarmed and gently shook her arm:
"Child what is the matter? you are drunk-!"
"Yes Charlie I am' drunk, intoxicated with this sight But I
am getting over it now and if you will bear with  f
meant, ['11 be myself again. So, now my head feels clearer."
It would be vain to try, to render the rambling conversation
now ensuing. Little children could not have ben wildersafter
school-hours, than our friends hovering over their discovered
treasure. Now they laughed and the next momentthey sobered
down to earnestness ven tinged with sadness; now they let the
coins slip through their fingers, listening to the merry tinkle
with which they struck against their comrades underneath; and
anon they rose to their feet, stepping even back and looking at
the treasure with a look of awe. But sitting or standing, laugh
ing or chatting, they built all the while air castles of the most
fantastic nature, and would no doubt have continued th sport
if the deepening'shades of the cave had not at last reminded thet
of the approach of night and the necessity of fixing  e
"We must bury the gold again for the present," Charles pag-.
gested, "and come for-it some other time."
"But it may be found and stolen !"
Care and trouble, the inseparate companions of gold had al
ready made their appearance.
"That is true!" Charles replied "but it can't be hel  W
could take but little with us, and that little would be apt to be-
tray us. But I shall take the will and place it in the safe of the
office. There it will be secure,'you know, and we shall need it,
to establish our claims to all this gold."
"It will not all be ours, Charles. Part of it bel
Jacob and part to father."
"No'Dol, I hardly think, that the testament gives anyth
siderable to Mr. Fox. I should not wonder, if it deprived him
even of a large portion of the wealth he now enjoys.
"Do you think so, Charlie? If that be the case I shall take nca
more pleasure in the discovery of all this gold. I do not want o
participate in any-transaction calculated to derive my
of his fortune."privmydearfather


-228                    DOLORES.
"Nor I either Dol. I could not think of such a course."
"Are you in earnest Charlie?" she asked with brightening eyes.
"In dead earnest child: how can you doubt my word?"
"I do not doubt it; only the fear of danger to pa's prosperity
confused my head. I thank you Charlie from the bottom of my
heart."
"There is no occasion for that Dolores. But to obtain our
wishes, we must secrete the document for awhile. If it was put
in court, I should be powerless to protect the interests of Mr.
Fox; but by keeping it back and merely hinting atour discovery.
we may obtain better terms from uncle Jacob." '
"Manage it just as you think best ; only Mr. Fox must not suf-
fer in consequence of any good luck of mine."
"He shall not, Dol, if I can help it; but I may as well tell you,
that Mr. Fox is at present in great pecuniary embarrassment. He
may even become a bankrupt, if he does not soon succeed in rais-
ing large sums of money."
"Charlie, you alarm me."
"Now, would you have ahy objection, if in case of necessity,
I take a portion of this money, to set him right again?"
"Not the least, Charlie: how can you ask. You know that I
would gladly forfeit my whole share to assist him."
"I thought so; but this is business and in business it is always
best to have a clear understanding. But now I must set to work to
bury the gold. It would not do, to leave any trace of my digging."
After fastening the cover on the box, Charles threw the sand
with the shovel back into the hole and this task being much eas-
ier than the work of excavating, he finished it in less than half-
-in-hour. Every trace of the operation was then carefully oblit-
erated and the bones were replaced in their previous position. The
sun had already sunk below the horizon when the pair finally
stepped into the boat and shoving it through the entrance, steered
throuagli the intricate passages of the channel. On reaching the
open ea the mast was hoisted and a favorable breeze drove the
loat rapidly through the waves towards the little harbor. Many
glances he two cast back at the place, that had their precious se-
cret, and even after reaching the land and walking towards the
village, their eyes wandered in the direction of the cemetery, al-
though the last vestige of it had long ago disappeared from sight-.

DOLORES. -                     229
S uggaer was over, when they reached the cottage, but Mrs.
Fuchs had not forgotten them. Placing tlhe reserved food upon
the table and pouring out a cup of freshly prepared tea, she sum-
moned the two, to sit down and make up for lost time.
Neither Charles nor Dolores were in the least hungry; but they
had to force themselves, to take a few bites, in order to avoid
questions, which they could not have answered without consider-
able embarrassment. They had resolved to keep their discovery
secret, until they were capable of calm reflection, and Dolores
had left it to Charlie'sjudgment, to decide when this period should
arrive. Mrs. Fuchs kept them company but while their lips were
talking one thing, their thoughts wandered off to another.
The hostess noticed it; she told them, that they were rather
stupid, but being kind enough, to attribute their absence of mind
to the fatigue of their excursion, she advised both the young peo-
ple to retire to bed at an early hour.
"I have arranged with Lucy, to relieve -you altogether for the
coming night, Del" she said. After this trip you will enjoy a
good sleep and you shall have it. Don't contradict me! It is all
cut and dry and no use to try a change."
"But Mrs. Fox...."
"Is so well this evening, that she expects to sleep the whole
night. You may see her for a minute; but after that-to bed
Miss Dolores and that without delay too."
Dolores was only too well inclined to accept Mrs. Fuchs'. kind-
ness. Her late discovery had in a measure disqualified her for a
nurse and she greatly delighted at the thought, of lying on her
bed and being at liberty to let her thought wander over the adven-
tures of the afternoon. Yet she did not enjoy that pleasure very
long; for she had hardly stretched her weary limbs on her mat-
tress, when the fatigue of the body overcame the excitement of
the soul and soon sunk her into a deep slumber, during which her
fancies assumed the garb of dreams, treating the same stuff, but
exaggerating a thousand times the circumstances of reality.
CHAPTER XXIV.
A DRIVER DRIVEN.
Cearles being less fatigued had resisted the flattering caress of
sleep longer than Dolores. He thought on the discovery until


230                   - DOLORES.
his head ached; but in spite of his musings he saw no way of
securing the treasure, without the assistance of some confidental
friend. Henry would not answer; much less uncle Jacob with
his greedy avarice. His father was too timid and indecisive in
his measures, but still he was the only one, that could be thought
of. So next morning, when they had reached the factory, Charles
requested a private interview with his father at the office and gave
him as short and clear an account as possible. Mr. Fuchs list-
ened with every sign of astonishment and after Charles had ended,.
replied:
"My son, if I did not know that you are a sober steady lad and
would not entertain the thought of. making fun of your father, I
should not credit the story. And you knew the secret of the-
cave for two years?"
"Yes, father and that was the reason of my silence in regard to
Mr. Wood's transactions. I burned to speak, as you may well
imagine; but I could not think of violating my oath."
"Of course not Charlie, of course not. I approvd of your con.
duct; yes I admire it, and that of little Dol even more' pet. Who.
would have thought of giving her credit for so much character?"
I father; indeed I would have trusted her in far greater temp-
tations. But you forget the gold."
"Ah yes; I can as yet not force myself to look upon your story
as reality. You have the testament in your possession, you say?"
"Yes father" he replied, untying a portfolio, which he had taken
from the house and never for a moment released from his grasp..
The parchnent he drew out, had grown yellow with time; but the
sand in which it had been buried, was so dry and the oilcloth-
cover had so effectually kept out all destructive influences that,
not a letter of the document had become illegible.. Unfolding it
he asked his father:
"Shall I read it?"
"If you please.
On Board the Rover.
Septbr, 20. 1760.
Be it known to all concerned, that I have this day drawn up my
last will and testament and intend to leave my property as follows:
1st. The box in the cave of the cemetery. on the coast of
Maine, containing in doubloons and diamonds the sum of $250,.
000.00.. . .

DOLORES.                       231
-'It is possible !" Mr. Fuchs could not abstain from interrupting.
....I leave to the children of my sister-in-law Caroline Fuchs
residing at B. in the Palatinate on the Rhine in equal portions.
2. My estate at Foxville in the Colony of Maine, I also leave
to the children of said Caroline, and the heir or heirs of my
brother Walter, who now resides thereon, taking charge of th
same for me; the land to be equally divided amongst all the part-
ies above named.
"Poor Mr. Fox" Charles interrupted himself.
"That would deprive him of a portion of his property."
"The great portion father; /,but Dol and I have made up our
mind, that he shall suffer no detriment whatever-were we right
father?"
"Of course m3 boy; but I fear, uncle Jacob would think differ-
ently."
"So do I. For that reason we must keep quiet about the will
unless we can induce him to sign a written agreement, that suits
our purpose."
"But will he do that?"
"I think he will; leave that to me, father, I know how to
manage him.
"Very well, Charlie: but go on with the will."
"Well, that is nearly all. The signature is testified to by two
witnesses, both of whom seem to have been officers of the Rover.
The paper is evidently unfinished or at least the formality of
recording is lacking. We know from Eberhardt's letter, that it
was his intention to have it recorded; but a rapid death seems to
have prevented the execution of the purpose."
"You may be right Charlie; but what do you propose doing
with the money ?"
"That is the difficulty. By means of levers we two might suc-
ceed in shipping the box and conveying it safely to the cottage
or better to the large safe here in the office; but how shall we
both get off at the same time, without creating suspicion?"
"We might start before daybreak and that way manage to get
aback at an early h our."
'*But not in time to start the factory here."
"That would be hardly necessary, I might instruct the foreman
the night before and he could get along well enough for a couple
of hours."


DOLORES.

"But the horse and wagon father ?"
"On returning to the bay, I could stay in the boat and you go
for the wagon."                                  . ,,,
"But if Henry or uncle Jacob should ask an explanation?"
"We must send them off on some errand or other."
"They will hardly go. I took that liberty with uncle yester-
day, sending him to lawyer Sharp at Hilltown. He is not in the
brightest humor this morning in consequence of the useless walk."
Mr. Fuchs laughed.
"I do not wonder : it is no fmi to run ten miles and back for
nothing. We must hit upon another expedient then. How would
it do, to give him plenty of Deidesheimer Traminer this evening?"
"That would indeed chain him to his bed till a late hour; but
what of Henry ?"
Mr. Fuchs sighed.
"Alas! Charlie, your brother will not neglect a chance of im-
bibing freely. If I don't check his drinking, he will be even less
dangerous to-morrow mornimg than my brother."
Charles shook his head.
"I hate to base my calculations on my brother's degradation.
Goodness knows, he is low enough without it. However we must
secure the box to-morrow and one drunken spell more or less will
eventually matter little. So the plan is fixed, thanks to your
sagacity, father. It seems to me, as if we had changed roles for
once. Generally you counsel caution and have to check my ardor
this time the case lies just reversed. Can you account for that
phenomenon?"
"No Charlie, unless it is, that I am getting restless and inpat-
ient, to see so big'a pile of gold."
"May be that is the cause; but I know this, that if you had
once seen the gold like me, you would be shy and timid also. I
cannot rid myself of the thought, that by some chance intruder
the secret may leak out."
"Well, that risk is as great one day as another or rather every
day increases it. The sooner we remove the gold, the better."
"You are right again father, so have your way about it. You
had better make the necessary arrangement all at once. Invent
any story'for the foreman, that seems credible."

Mr. Fuchs was on the point of leaving the office, when suddenly
he returned, saying:
"Charlie, you spoke of a cargo of steel in the cave: we have not
fixed on any course regarding that."
"You are right" Charles lively responded; ,that too requires
immediate attention."
"And what would you propose?"
"Oh! that is easily managed. Wood in his contraband trade
must have had accomplices to fetch the steel. Has any one be
sides George lately left the factory?"
"Not to my knowledge, Charlie."
"Then we have our men. .1 know John the driver is one of
them and if we attack him on a sudden and threaten with dire
punishment, he will not only betray the other part ies, but vol-
unteer to haul the cargo as an offset for his offense."
"So you. will shift the matter entirely off your hands? The
plan is excellent. When do you mean to start them?"
"This evening if possible. The revenue officers might spoil the
job for us."
"But can they remove the boxes in one night? You know, to-
morrow they would be in our way."
"I hope they can, and--if not. they may divide the job into
two night's labor."
"Exactly. You seem to have regained your nerve Charlie.
Shall I send you the driver while I inform the foreman?"
L you please Sir."
A few minutes afterwards John the drivernade his appear-
ne. This summons was somewhat suspicious and Charles saw
from  th e  fello w 's  m ien s,  th a t  h e  h ad  a  g uilty  co n scien ce. " i  o n  o n  h r e  d r s e  i . "  a t d t  p a
"Sit down, John" Charles addressed him. "I wanted to sek
a word or two to you. You know the superintendent has cut sticks
and left us in a pretty fix?"
The driver started.
"Well yes, I know, Charlie ; but then, you' 'know-I don't see
exactly--."I dont see, what I have to do with that."
"Oh! I thought, you might give us some information, John.
You know you were always on very good terms with Mr. Wood."
"?" the driver stammered in great consternation "indeed I
dont know. .

232

233

DOLORES.


l

234

DOLORES.

By this time Charles was sure of the man's oomplicity. So
changing his easy mode off speaking into a rapid energetic one,
he said suddenly:
"But I know: Wood used to smuggle steel from 'the cemetery
and you assisted him."
A flash from the blue sky could not have struck the driver
more unexpectedly and forcibly, than this sudden declaration. He
stared at Charles with eyes and mouth open, the helpless victim
of unbounded consternation. At last he made an effort to collect
himself, but before he had uttered a single word, Charles contin-
uied:                                       wvahito
"I have witnesses for what I say. I need but give a hit to
the revenue officers and you will be delivered to the severity of
the law. Moreover your situation is in jeopardy: one word from
my lips and you leave this factory an unemployed man-..
Longer John could not constrain himself. Springing to his
feet and lifting his hands in an imploring manner, he cried:
"Ahi Charlie,good Mr. Charlie, don't ruin a poor fellow, that
merely did, what he was bid to do. It went against my grit to
assist in cheating Mr. Fox-but what could I do? In these hard
times a poor fellow is glad to earn an honest penny outside of his
work. Please Sir, don't ruin me; I'll do anything in the world
for you, only don't, don't inform on me."
Charles looked at him with a steady eye. At length when he
thought the fellow's fear had been wrought to a high enough
pitch, he broke his silence, saying:
"Very well John! You are a married man and I pity your wife
and children. I shall keep silent on one condition."
"What is it, Charlie, what is it ?" John inquired eagerly  "I'll
do anything in my power to make amends."
"There is a cargo of steel in the cave at present," Charles re-
sumed.
"Indeed is there? I didn't know it."
"It is paid for with Mr. Fox' money and he cannot afford to
lose it. He despises the nefarious practice of smuggling, but as
Wood has smuggled this cargo so far, he cannot now inform the
revenue officers without losing both his money and the goods. Do
you understand me?"
"Exactly, Sir, exactly."

DOLORES.

"well then, I'll pardon your assistance at
you can manage to haul the cargo from the cave to the factr
this very night."
"Is it a large cargo ?"
"Tolerably large."
"And two nights would be too late for you?"
"I should prefer to have the job done all at oce. To show
you, that I mean well; if the boxes are in our yard, tos-mrow
morning at 4 o'clock, I shall not only say aod word ourrow
vor to Mr. Fox ; but also give you and your eor
ar note as a token of my satisfaction."
John's countenance brightened. Making  f      p
Charles and extending his hand to him, ie said:
"Charlie, I am your man. The deuce shall take me if you ain't
the honestest man I ever did see. I shall eh  you  l
this night and no mistake and what's more: ifch ou Rie boxes
forgets your kindness may ten thousand bombshells blast me all
to pieces."
"Very well John" Charles replied taking
count on you. Bu o     o hdbt       n the proffered hand,  "Il
outoyo.But now you had better go, or people might htw  ae twonl-
der what we two have to confer together all this while."
CHAPTER XXV.
SPECULATIONS
About 9 o'clock a wagon with one horse drove up to the offic
door. There were two men in it using a ro  upstro  b  asfce
seat. We hardly need tell the readett  th socupants  ar
the Fuchs', father and son and that they are just etcupntis from
a successful expedition. He knows the box also an do   m
wonder in the least, when we state, that rollers and levers   o
be used, before the chest wssf      0esadlvr had to
be uedbefre te cestwas safely deposited on the floor of thme
office. A couple of laborers howeverIstm w o  te flled, to
lend a hand, had wondered considerably and only becae  to
fled when they had been informed tha steelbans became satin
quality formed the contents.ay fme
"So" said Charlie with a contented midn locking th d
the men had left, and then dropping into a chair, wiped the per.

231)


X36                    DOLORES.
spiration from his brow. So far, so good. , We have reason to
be satisfied with our success. Did you notice the boxes with steel
in the shed?"
"I did my son; but then we were sure to find them here, for
you recollect, the cave was empty."
"To be sure; but still it gratifies me considerably, to know
them safe. We may now at our leisure transfer the contents of
the chest to the large safe. This here would not hold half of
them."
"You promised John and his men a hundred dollars."
"Exactly; but it would not do, to give him the money before
the other hands. After we are through here, you.may please give
him a hint to call on me after working hours."
"I will Charlie ; but here is the hatchet. and a chisel,.to open
the box."
"Just one minute more father! Let Ime lower the curtain, to
keep inquisitive eyes from prying into affairs, that do not concern
them."
The box was then opened and Mr. Fuchs, who now saw its con-
tents for the first time, experienced nearly the same sensations of
awe and pleasure, which his son had felt two days ago. Age is
said to make us wiser and cooler; but few men get wise and cool
enough, to free themselves from the charm of gold.
The two had no time to count the money; but they had on the
night before procured a dozen small but strong bags from Mrs.
Fuchs and now put the coins into them for better handling. At
the bottom of the chest they found a little box of rosewood,
with steel corners and beautiful inlaid work of gold and enamel.
It had a lock and a key sticking in it. On turning the key and
lifting the cover, that worked on hinges, they had a sight, truly
grand and startling. Large quantities of precious stones filled
the box to the rim, some eut and reflecting the light a hundred
fold, others, with rough covers, such as they are found in the
mines of Brazil and India.
"These are diamonds" Charles cried in excited but yet sub-
dued tones. "No wonder the testament speaks of $250,000.00
These stones alone, must be worth that sum in the hands of any
man, who understands to sell them to advantage."
"You may be right, for all I know; I have but little knowledg

DOLORES.
of such matters. So here is the last bag; jut '
 the safe."                                   put that in
"No, stop a moment father. I want to count off twenty-five
thousand Dollars to meet Mr. Fox' outstanding debt y
"What? you would pay them of this money?"
"Yes father. Dolores has given her consent, I hope that you
have no objections?"
"No my boy, not the least. Only be careful '
This money belongs by right to the descendents of  olir achs,
but the courts might raise trouble in the matter and...c"
"I think it will be best, not to trouble the courts at all. If
can get the heirs to make an amiable settlement t    e
no outside person need know anything about this  attemev
"But Charlie, there is danger in that. It is hardly possible to
keep such things secret and if they do leak out yous subject your-
self to bad repute and, may be, persecutions by the law."
"Well let us leave that to more mature reflections, Now I want
to count this money."
Mr. Fuchs yielded the -point, as he was wont to do and the sum
of twenty-five thousand Dollors was counted and hid aside.
The rest of the day was passed in the common routine ofebusi-
ness and in the evening, when the driver made his- appearance i
the office, Charles handed him the stipulated rewad g old.in
The fellow's eyes sparkled.a                mo
"I thank you very much, sir. Did youes
"I did, John and found them all right. exami  e the boxes?
your promise like a man."                      come up to
"I thank you for that too, sir. I'll not rg.
and if ever you want a body, that is to do a jo for you, hard or
not, hard, pay or no pay, you know where to find hr-"
"Yes John I'll think of that. And now my friend, no more ir-
regularities: you understand me?"
"I do Sir and you may clip my ears, if ever you find
wrong track again."
"It is so easy to gain a man" Charles said to h'
walking home. I wonder why there were ever uns, at was
hated by their people."ings, that were
We could have solved the mystery for hi  Ch
this fellowsyfailings and rewarded his honety. he kvg ow

0


238                    DOLORES.
ever, whom history has marked as tyrants, did just the reverse.
They overlooked the virtues of their people and rewarded their
iniquity. Thus they gained the approval of the wicked, the hat-
red of the good and the curse of.posterity.
At the cottage he found smiling faces, excepting uncle Jacob's
and Henry's, that were shadow's. Uncle Jacob was out of humor,
because so far he had made no headway at all in the great enter-
prise of his life. Charles confidental communication regarding
the whereabouts of the testament cheered him for a while; for
having failed to receive any satisfactory detail from his nephew
he began to suspect that the young man had merely talked at
random with no other objeet in view, than that of securing his
uncle's secrecy concerning Mrs. Fox' nightly adventure. He felt
so vexed at this thought, that he would at once have broken his
pledge, if the young man's impressive warning hadnot'stood vi-
vidly before his mind and suggested the propriety of not risking
his enmity. Besides, the knowledge of the real facts of the case
might become too valuable, to merely throw away. If the testa-
ment could not be found, uncle Jacob might after a while succeed
in getting Mr. Fox to cash that knowledge to the amount of a
few thousands and with that money he might return to Germany,
for, rich or poor, he would never think of sending the remainder
of his life in so disagreeable a country as these United States had
proven themselves thus far to be.
Uncle Jacob's thoughts were running in that strain, when
Charles entered the parlor. Jacob was alone and Charles resolved:
to benefit by the opportunity to push his plans. He had hardly
seen, much less spoken to his uncle since that worthy's expedi
tion into the country, and now the young man approached him
in a pleasant manner, which was captivating to his uncle in pro-
portion to its rareness.
"Well, uncle, how do you do this evening? I havn't had time
to speak to you, this day or two. You must excuse me on ac-
count of the urgent duties, that now devolve upon me."
Certainly Charlie, certainly my boy. I know you must have
a hard time of it now."
"Rather hard, uncle."
"When do you expect Mr. Fox back?"

DOLORES.                       239
"That's hard to tell, uncle. Mr. Fox is trying to raise money
and that is a hard operation now-a-days."
"Very true that Charlie, very true. I am a living example of
that truth. I have been trying to raise money these twenty years
and have not succeeded over well."
"Better luck for the future then, uncle. You remember the
testament."                                            1
"Curse the testament" Jacob said with a sudd           -
passion. But he checked himself saying:
"Charles you held out some hope to me the other day: tell me
the truth now, my boy: you merely wanted to lead your uncle
somewhat by the nose, didn't you ?"
Why uncle, what do you think? How would I dare to sho-
disrespect to my father's brother?"
"Thank you, Charlie, thank you very much. But to return to
the subject: there was some foundations for the hints youdr
ped ?"or-
"Of course, uncle, or I shouldn't have dropped them. I repeat,
that I have a pretty clear idea, where the testament emape
found."m                                               be
Charles smiled at the thought of uncle Jacob's total ignorance
of the fact, how near his statement came to truth.
"You have? have you my lad? Now come don't p      bl'
man's buff with your old uncle, but speak out plainly that af
low can understand you."
These words were uttered with a kind of confidential security,
the speaker moving up to Charles and laying his had p ersuas-
sively upon the other's knee. Charles laughed.
"You are trying to catch me with soft sodder uncle Jacob" he
said "just as mother does the flies with honey. But I aint so
easily caught as that my dear Sir. Do you think I  ant  o
my knowledge away? Thsi h'aodof hn          mean to throw
my knwlede awy? This is the land of speculation, unclean
when a man possesses a secret tbat's worthpenowin, he, and
the most out of it he can."
"Ah, you want to skin your poor uncle, you young rascal. do
"No. uncle, I want only to shave you. That will save you the
trouble to go to the barber."


240                     DOLORES.
"Well shave away Charlie : how much hair must I sacrifice?
Will a thousand dollars do?"
"Ah you are generous uncle. I see you have a due appreciation
of my secret; but I prefer to state the matter differently. First
and foremost will you have the kindness to state in how many,
shares the inheritance ought to be divided, according to your
opinion ?"
"In two Charlie, of course in two, one share falling to your,
father, the other half to me."
"And Dolores, uncle? It seems you leave her entirely in the
cold."
"Dolores? Ah yes I recollect now, she is the represetative of
the Italian branch. -It is hard io think, that a little girl should
come in for such a pile of money. ..."
"Pile of money?" Charles interrupted him "hold on, uncle, your
fancy is running off with you. Who spoke about a pile . of
money?"
"Didn't you speak of one Charlie? I thought you did.'At any
rate there ought to be one. But what was I saying Charlie?
You interrupted me."
"Youtspoke of Dolores uncle."
"Exactly, Charlie. I was going to say that if the thing could
not be well avoided a few thousand dollars might be sacrificed,
to satisfy the girl."
"You are very liberal, uncle, that is a tact" Charles replied
somewhat vexed by the manifestation of such sordid greediness,
"the matter might be looked at from a very different point' of
view. Dolores, one might say-represents the one branch ; you
and father the other; consequently she is entitled to one half of
the inheritance."
This was too much for uncle Jacob. Jumping up with every
sign of consternation in his face, he said:
"Charlie ! lad! you must be mad, to entertain such thoughts!
I tell you it would be downright wicked, to let so much money
go out of the family."
There! so much money again. I told you not to be too hasty,
sir. If you entertain such miserly principles, I have nothing
more to say."
After these words Charles pretended to be desirious of ending-

DOLOltES.24
the conversation by leaving the room but h
he had gone too far, eagerly pressed him bac  hisa ha
"Dont go, Charlie" he cried "dont ou gs c          as
merely letting on you know. The girl m  do my boy. I was
a third, but an entire haZf--just think ofit e  a entitled to
half! It is preposterous to-entertain the idea."
Ah! you are coming round, I see. A third that sounds more
reasonable."
"So you give up the notion of the half?" Jacob cried "I th
you would, for the position was untenable. Yes we'l ought
one third; we'll allow the girl one thi              her
fatherWlegsrsonethid.Poorthin                  h   i
fatherless and motherless, you know. It wouldn't be  h is
like to taktadvantage of her, would it Charlie?"
The young man had to bite his lips, to keep from br 't
a laugh. lie thought, he never saw the smile of the wolf in
sheep's clothing more strikingly illustrated. Bnt to laugh  m -
spoil the game; so he remained serious and said:-
''Well, have it your own way. Let us assume that
titled to a full third of Eberhardt's inheritance--ou see the eng
might be looked at                        yoa ey  see the thing
-  in a very different light; bringing inMr
Fox and myself and Henry we might reduce your share to 'sixth
-but assuming that you were entitled to a full third  ha would
you be inclined to take for your share?"
"What ? take? for my share?"
Jacob was somewhat bewildered in consequence of th
ple in fraction, which Charlie had given him. One sixthte erem
idea was enough, to make him tremble."etmere.
"I want to know, how much you would take for your third? Is
that not plain enough uncle?"
"Yes, I understand you n1ow, Charlie. How mu
take? That is hard to say: what do you think ofca hundred
thousand?".
"Coppers?"
"Dollas of course" Jacob replied with a mien of injured d
"One hundred thousand dollars? Charles said breakini
boisterous laugh. "Uncle Jacob if you were not  y father
brother, I shouldsay to you: You are an ass !"
Uncle Jacob swallowed hard at that tough expression; but ye


DOLORES.

he succeeded. Charles knew his man. He had much knowledge
of men for one so young; he would have made a great statesman,.
may be, if his cradle had stood in the hall of some great noble
house. As it was, he merely had the chance of making his uncle
keep step to his pipe; but he made the best of it.
"Well Charlie, being your father's brother, I hope yqu didn't
mean to apply that word to me. The sum can hardly be consid-
ered high, when you take into account the property of Mr. Fox,
which also belongs to Eberhardt's bequests."
"I wouldn't be too sure about that, uncle. Mr Fox has been
n possession so long, that you would find it exceedingly difficult
to unhorse him. Moreover I'shall tell you in confidence,-mind
uncle Jacob in confidence--that Mr. Fox is on the point of be-
coming a bankrupt."
Jacob started up.
"You don't say so ? a bankrupt with that factory and fine man-
sion and park?"
"Yes, Sir, with all that and in spite of it; Mr. Fox is embar-
rassed. But you mustn't speak of it, uncle."
"Honor bright.!" Jacob cried pompously. "But that alters the
case. I suppose I have to come down a button-hole or two."
"I suppose so too, uncle."
"What do you think of-of-no indeed!, I wont ask a sum at
all. You better make me an offer now; yes make me an hand-
some offer. I know you wouldn't skin your poor uncle too badly."
"I told you, I would merely shave you: What do you think of
twenty thousand?"
"Now Charlie, come, you cannot be in earnest: twenty thousand!
bah!"
"Well call it thirty thousand, uncle."
"Thirty thousand !". Jacob exclaimed, while his eyes began to
sparkle at the readiness with, which his nephew flung away ten
thousand Dollars. "Charlie my good boy, add another ten and
Iam your man."
Charles hesitated a moment, then he said:
"I shall do even better uncle and pay you fifty thousand dollars
=  for your share, but on one condition."
"Name it Charlie, name it my boy."
"After having given me a written renunciation, which is to be

certified before witnesses, you depart at once for Germany, never
to return."
"But the money, Sir, the money?"
'Will be handed you in drafts on a Frankfort house"
Now uncle Jacob's selfcontrol was at an end. Jumping up and
embracing his nephew, who suffered the caress with a bad enough
grace, he cried:
"Nothing else, Charlie? nothing else? With all my heart will
I go and never           secofoudeWUialmyhrtwl
return to these confounded United States. G
me the money Sir and I'll start to-morrow."
"I'll give you the money to-morrov and you may start the daf
after."
"Just as yon please, my darling, just as you please."
"Well, come to my room uncle. I shall draw upthe Papers ilT
at once"
"But you will not cheat me, Charlie will you?"
The brow of the young man darkened:
"I pardon your suspicion on account of your excitement If
you think you cannot trust me, let us drop the matter altogether."
"No! Charlie, no! my dear lad. You must not mind my
tongue, because it makes me say things against my own will. I'll
g w    you.
In his room the young man drew up a paper in which J
Fuchs pledged himself, to renounce all claims of a certain inherit..
dance coming from his ancestor Eberhardt Fuchs in consideration
of the payment of $50,000.00 in cash.                  o
"Is that correct uncle?"
"Exactly."
"Now sign and then let us go to a couple of'ighois to  -
ness your signature."                             '  i it
"But Charlie I haven't my noney yet."
Why uncle this paper only binds you in case of suc p
muent, dont you see?"
"I do Charlie, give me the pen. So."
He signed and then said:
"Nowlet us go, Charlie."
The two left the house. A couple of neighbors were willing
enough to certify the signature. When their nam  re wit
Charles and his uncle returned to the cottage.

r

242

DOLORES.

243


"N o bep mum, uncle" Charles cautioned his companion.
"Go to bed, and to-morrow morning you shall have your draft.",
"I will Charlie, only I feel awfully dry: don't you think, we had
better go into the cellar and seal our treaty with a bottle?"
"I don't care uncle," Charles replied, fearing to contradict him
in a point, where he kuew him to be stubborn. "I have no objec-
tion to take a glass with you."
So they went into the cellar and after a moderate libE tion
Charles saw his uucle'into his room. There he waited until Jacob
was in bed and then he went away to imitate his example.
The next day was pay-day. When Charles reached the office,
the men to whom he had made the confidential communication a
few days ago, entered the room. They announced themselves as
delegates from all the workmen in the factory and then stated,
that they had been authorized to inform the new superintendent
that they would all be willing to wait a month or even two months'
for the money if necessary.
"I thank you in Mr. Fox' name," Charles replied to them "I
thank you most sincerely and I am sure Mr. Fox will be much
pleased on his return, to learn your handsome conduct. However
it gives me much pleasure, to announce to you, that your sacrifice
has become unnecessary. We have managed to raise sufficient
funds, to pay you all and if you will call at this office after twelve
we shall be prepared to satisfy you. We intend to give you this
afternoon as a holiday."
"But, Mr. Charlie," said the speaker "if it should in the least
embarrass Mr. Fox...."
"It will not Sir, not in the least. We are fully prepared to set-
tle all our debts with you and that without any trouble at all."_
The men left. They didn't seem to like the turn of affairs; they
seemed to be sorry, that they had been deprived of the chance, of
rendering Mr. Fox a service.
In the afternoon the hands were all paid off and the works were
stopped for the balance of the day. While this transaction was
still going on, uncle Jacob showed his face in the office. Charles
beckoned himto his side.
"You see, I am busy now, uncle" he whispered in his ear. "We
shall have to postpone our settlement until to-morrow. In the
meantime you get your things ready for leaving and say good bye

to the women. They needn't know the reason of your going,nor
your riches either. Do you hear uncle."
"Yes Charlie, but the money. ea  .
"Will be yoursto-morrow. I shall accompany you to Boston.
I have business there and shall buy foreign bills of exchange for
you."
"You would trouble yourself that much for your uncle; Charlie,
would you?"
"I1t is no trouble, for I hav  o
"s no to   f   have to go at anyerate. But now please
excuse me. You see these people are all waiting and I must
satisfy them."watn
Uncle Jacob left Adgon1 o
byhe anobnef and going home greatly surprised the women
by the announcement of his resolution. Henry was even nore
surprised than they and with his wonderment there was mixed a
considerable amount of anger. nehad  really trusted to his
uncle's good fortune : he had abandonned his daily pursuits for
his sake and now suddenly heard him           purs     f
reurintoh'y         ead'i    announce his purpose of
returning to his native country. What could it mean? Had he
paidunm   te hope of finding the lost will? Or had somebody
him a bonus to get him out of the way? He spoke to his
butcloquaingto make him reveal the reason of this sudden change
but loquacious as uncle Jacob naturally was, the great sum of
]Honey at stake induced him, to keep his peace.
Charles.in the meantime continued his labors at the office, his
father and the foreman assisting him. The people had formerly
always received their wages in banknoteshe i e ad joymerd
wonderment at the same time, when Charles this time paid down
their money in gold coins of full weight. On the banknotes they-
hoften to lose a fraction of a cent and more, and even with
house at parstere was 'always the possibility of their being spu-
induce hithe currency for the poor man; nothing will ever
W     him to prefer to it paper-currency, no matter how good.
benefit themerchant, the speculator, or the capitalist, is glad to
beeft by the lighter and more convenient banknote, the day-la-
borer wl d    in nothing so much as in the solid coin, which
hie cn hoard away without any danger of losing the result of
Chard labor.
Charles was glad enough to see the'men satisfied; but he did
t like the many questions they asked him. Most of them ha

244

r1

DOLORES.

DOLORES.

91A5.,


246                    DOLORES.
never seen these Spanish coins and, Charles had to explain their
value to almost every one of them. Fortunately he was able to
show them the column of doubloons in the "banknote detector;
Other-wise he might not have been able, to induce them to receive
the -money in spite of its being gold. Suspicion or rather dis-
trust is one of the distinct traits of American character and one
that is hardly commendable or creditable. While a due amount
of caution may be regarded as a virtue,- undue suspicion is an ob-
jectionable weakness. When, a man is over-cautious, it is but na-
tural to presume, that he is guarding against measures which he
Would not hesitate toemploy in his transactions with others.
The foreman shared the common wonderment at these old
coins.
"Them doubloons is rather a curiosity" he said. "Where did
you succeed in getting so large a pile of them ?"
"They must have been hoarded away by the former superin-
tendent in some old box or other," Charles answered evasively'
pretending to be too busy, to give more detailed explanations.
"I was s fool for paying the hands in these coins" he said to
his father, when they finally were alone.
"I warned you before-hand Charlie didn't I."
"You warned me against touching the money at all, and not be-
cause it consisted in Spanish doubloons. At least I didn't un-
derstand it that way."
"I may not have mentioned it ; but I surely had my misgiv-
ings."  ams
"I am almost sure, father, you didn't raise that objection. At
any rate; it is too late to mend the matter now. The only thing
we can do, is to guard against spending any more of that money
in this neighborhood. I thought of laying .a check at our bank
for the balance of the $25,000.00; but I am afraid to risk it. No
city nearer than Boston will answer the purposee"
"You do not think of going there, Charlie?"
"With your permission, I do. You can manage the factory
alne for a few days;'can you not?
"Well, yes, I might."
"'Then, please, raise no objections to my going. I have two
objects more in view."
jMay I know them?"

DOLORES-,

"Of course, father. One is, to test the value of some of the
diamonds."
"And the other?"
"To see uncle Jacob safe on his way to Germany."
"Uncle Jacob? He go home? ha! ha! you don't know, my
brother, if you think that he entertains any such idea."
"I do not think it, I know it father."
"How know it?"
"Simply because he informed me of his resolution last night."
Mr. Fuchs looked at his son. shaking his head he said:
"Charles, you are growing over my head. Such things can go
on in my house and I not know them?"  .
"Now, don't scold me, father. I meant well and am still incli-
ned, to think, that I acted for the best."
"Well, that may be; but tell me all about it. I do not see, how
in the world you could induce Jacob to give up his chase after
the testament.".
"I induced him by buying up his share."
"At what figure?"S
"Fifty thousand Dollars: wa Ahat fair?"
"Tolerably fair ; but not legal."
"Father, you come back to the old point. The more I think of
it, the more I am convinced that we ought not to take this mat-
ter before the courts. I sounded uncle Jacob yesterday: if the
will is taken into court for adjustment, Mr. Fox will be reduced
to beggary. Your brother has no more scruples to sacrifice him
than our cat."
"I fear you are right," Mr Fuchs said thoughtfully.
"Very well. To make him safe, we must not only keep this
case out of court, but even destroy the will."
'KNot just now Charlie?"
"No, not just now, With your permission I shall show it to
Mr. Fox on his return, to convince him, that its suppression is in
his favor."
"Yes, he will see, that he owes his security to our generosity."
"It isn't that, father., Only in case the thing should ever  eak
out, I want an interested witness, to testify to the fairness of our
action. As to generosity, I shall even go a step further if you
permit it."S

247

!  '


t. s                  DOLORES.
"What step do you mean?"
"I shall allow him the twenty five thousand Dollars as his share
of the noney. He may secretly blame his misfortune on me, be-
cause I did not inform him of his superintendent's action. The
sum mentioned covers all the losses and I shall feel easier by re-
pairing them."
"But Dolores has to be consulted."
"I have her sanction, father."
"Well I shall not withhold mine. After once abandoning legal
grounds we cannot any longer be governed by legal scruples, or
I would say, that Dolores as a minor, has no right to give away
anything."
"She may be minor as to years; but her mind is riper, father,
than that of many an older woman."
"I think so too, and therefore have no objection."
"So the matter is tolerably well settled. The only point, about
which we have to come to an understanding is-Henry's. interest
in this affair."
"He must be kept in total ignorance about it" Mr. Fuchs, said
readily.
"I say so too, father. The knowledge of so much money at our
disposal .would be an encouragement of his evil inclinations. He
has not at all improved since his uncle's arrival and it is partly
on his account, that I made uncle Jacob's immediate departure a
feature of our contract. I shall accompany him to Boston and
there buy him bills of exchange on Frankfort."
"That is'a good idea. I cannot say that I hate my brother, but
his-departure will take a burden from my heart. He would ruin
Henry beyond a doubt."
"And hold -Mrs. Fox' reputation at his mercy."
"Dear me! I never thought of that. Yes, my son, you man-
aged very well; but tell me, did you inform your mother of all
this?"
"No fatherII did not, simply because I lacked the time to do it."
"Then you intend to tell her?"
"Surely, father. I am proud to say, my mother is no gossip.
She can be trusted."
"Certainly she can and ought to. Had I better tell her, while
you are absent?"

DOLORES.                       149
"No, father, I think, I shall find leisure to tell her all to night.
But it is getting late; come let us go.,'
He seized his hat and the two were on the point of leaving,
when Charles suddenly grasped his father's arm.
"Father, tell me, did Wood use the larger safe ?"
"Yes, Charlie: why do you ask?"
"Were there two keys to it, as to the smaller one?
"I see what you are driving at: no Charlie I never saw but one:
but even if there were two-you do not think that he'd be bold
enough to venture here?"
"A rogue like him is bold enough to d0 anything. I'll caution
the watchman, before I go."
On crossing the yard, they found that individual smoking his
pipe.
"Josiah, have you got a revolver with you?" Charles addressed
him.
"No Sir, I hain't. No use for one, is there?"
"Well I don't know. You are aware that Mr. Wood and-George
ran off with a large sum of money?"
"They tell me so, Sir."
"Well, the scoundrels are bold enough, to do most anything.
Do you know how to use a revolver?"
"I kind o' like handled one one'st or twiste."
"Very well; just come along and I'll lend you mine. I want
you to have a particular eye upon the office. There are valuable
books and papers there, thatMr. Fox wouldn't miss for a good
bit. I shall be absent for a few days and if you'll promise to take
good care of things generally and the office particularly, I shall
not mind a few dollars, to pay you for your trouble when I return.'
"Exactly Sir, jist give me the shootin' iron and I. warrant you,
there won't be nobody a goin in to yer offlee, without'payin' toll."
When they reached the cottage, Charles ran in and a minute
afterwards returned with a revolver, which he handed to the watch-
man.
"So!" lie said to his father, after the custos had withdrawn. "I
shall now start with a lighter heart. It isn't very likely, he'll ever
show his face again at Foxville but-foreseen is forewarned."

s


DOLORES.

DOLORES.

CHAPTER XXVI.
A JOURNEY.
Charles did find time, that evening, to see his mother privately.
If what she heard from him filled her with great astonishment, it
certainly cured her of her wonder at her brother-in-law's move-
ments. She understood them well now and enjoyed them still
better; for ,she too had noticed his influence over Henry and knew
that it would hardly have the tendency of making her son any
better. For that reason--although she regretted to lose Charles
even for a few days-she readily approved of all his actions and
especially of his intended journey. Their interview had occupied
so much time, that he found no opportunity of exchanging with
Dolores more than a rapid farewell. before retiring to bed.
"Mother will tell you all" he whispered as he passed her and
Mrs. Fuchs. had indeed voluntered to set her perfectly au fait in
regard to the late development of affairs, So he parted with an
easy heart. Mr. Fuchs had hitched his horse to the light spring-
wagon and sat already on the frontseat, whip in hand when Charlie
and Jacob left the house, stopping a moment on the porch, to
shake hands and saying good bye-the latter most likely for ever.
Mr. Fuchs was to drive the two to the station and it must be
confessed, that uncle Jacob cut a much nicer figure on departing
than he had done on arriving. His brother had given him a good
travelling trunk and such articles of clothing as he could spare
himself or procure in the village.
*At the -factory they'stopped a moment, to take from the office
a small but very heavy valise. It took Charles' entire strength to
lift it on the wagon and the watchman could not help wondering
at a weight so out of proportion to the size.
"I   alculate that's part of them birds, we got the other day.
It's no wonder he wouldn't fancy to have anybody hook that there
breed. But- rest easy, sar, rest ye interely easy: I and this
shootin' iron shall do our dewty."-
Charles was.glad, when the factory was left behind. It was
early yet, the fog and sunlight battling for the mastery. The
scenery was pretty enough fantastic, forms of fog varying with
everi- minute. Now this misty veil showed through a sudden rent
a handsome farm with fields, meadows and orchards; anda minute
afterwards the rent was sowed up by rapid spirit hands and a new

251

one made through with a forest, a creek, a rivulet displayed them-
selves to the eyes of the travellers. The distance was a short one,
not more than three n'iiles and the stout pacer of-Mr. Fuchs soon
took them over it, landing them safely at the depot. They were
just in time for the morning train. Charles had to use all his
strength to preserve an easy gait while carrying his carpetbag.
At the cars he feared to to be compelled to leave it in the baggage-
car-but no. Nobody hindered him in taking it to his seat-it
was so small, so insignificant. It would be in nobody's way.
"The cars for Boston will leave in five minutes!"  It is time
for Mr. Fuchs to say good bye. An earnest "God bless you!" to
his son, a "happy journey !" to his brother and he leaves the car
and standing outside at the window watches the two, until the
bell begins to ring and the train to set it self in motion. Looking
after it, he remains five minutes without stirring from the place.
He meditates without endeavoring to get a clear impression of
his thoughts. Oily this he knows: he feels no sorrow at the
parting from a brother, whom he is not very likely to ever see
again. He also knows, that this brother is even more indifferent,
gazing with feverish impatience towards the hour that will put
him in possession of the dear, the long-coveted thousands.
But his horse is before the depot ; so he goes and jumping on
the wagon, whips him into a faster gait, in order to forget -his
thoughts by the rapid motion."
The train also shoots forward, increasing its speed from second
to second, until at last it reaches its maximum rapidity and then,
as it' were, with suspendedbreath hurries the passengers over hill
and dale-yea even through the bowels of the earth.
Towns are reached and left behind; big forests passed, which
in consequence of the rapid passage appear as mere groves, fit for
Sunday-school picnics. Cows grazing in a string along the rail-
way, are by rapidity condensed in herds of such magnitude, that
we wonder how one farmer manages to milk so many and what in
the world he does with 'all the milk and cream and butter.
At length darkness descends npon the earth. It throws its
veil over all the country around us. We know there is something
there though and a second afterwards something else and we feel
oppressed at the thought of tIe existence of so many things, of
which we fail to form the slightest idea. But this too does'not


252                    DOLORES.

last long. We are tired of thinking and closing our eyes, man-
age to snatch a few moments of slumber, from wv hich however
every shrill whistle awakens us, causing us to start and wonder,
whether the steam pipe will not soon whistle for our station.
Nothing is eternal on earth; even a day's journey on the. rail
road comes to a terminus. Even? I hear my reader ask. Yes}
even; or has it entirely passed his or her observation that our im-
patience increases in the exact ratio of our means of gratifying
it? Who ever thought of grumbling about slow speed in the days
of canal-boats and stage-coaches? oiOly since railroads have
started into vogue, it has become the fashion to be impatient and
lament over the loss of half.-an-hour, as if it were the last one at
the disposal of the traveller and badly needed, to make his-peace
with heaven.
But to repeat it. Charles and his uncle reached Boston iii
safety; but at an hour when even in great cities people begin to
seek nobody's company but that of their pillow. Charles hap-
pened to recollect the name of the hotel, which Mr. Fox was in
the habit of frequenting on his trips to Boston and seeuring a
carriage ordered the driver to take them there.  Fortunately
there was room in the house and the young man secured two ad-
joining apartments for himself and his uncle. Jacob didn't like
the arrangement; thought it was much more simple to take one
room with two beds; but Charles ventured to differ and intima-
ting that it wouldn't answer to make a change so late in the night,
got his worthy relative to acquiesce in the arrangement. But why
did he hold his uncle that way at a distance? Was he afraid
of him? No, not exactly afraid; but their sojourn in Boston
might last several days and the young man intagined that cir-
cumstances might arise, which would male it desirable, to have
a private.retreat into which Mr. Jacob could not stick his prying
proboscis without permission
Charles was an early riser. In spite of yesterday's fatigue he
was ready for breakfast, while uncle Jacob still snored away with
a skill of such as only long practise can give. So the young man
went down-stairs and after taking his breakfast went to the clerk
in the office, to enter his name and that of his companion.
"Has Mr. Fox lately been here?;' he asked the clerk.

DOLORES.                        259
"Which Mr. Fox, sir. We have severalcf
There is one of them with us just now."o
"The Mr. Fox, I mean, hails froi Foxvil,    ai
christian name is Edward."                    ,   aine. His
f"That's the man sir. He lodges in No 8, second floor, you will
Shim in now, hasnt had his breakfast yet."
"Not just now, Sir." Please don't mention to Mr. Foxthat
hotel Can     m.    want to surprise him on my return to the
hotel Can yoiannme the address of some prominent jeweler,
that deals in diamonds?" "e  i,  a.TeeaeMsr.y
Yes, Sir, I can. There are Messrs. Ruby &amp; Co., 279 ^street
a very prompt and reliable firm.   Nothing bo.,   treet
genuine, all solid."
"Are they likely to be open at this early hour?"
i                                  "Geerallyopen about this time.; between eight ani nine. What
me itfow? Half past eight: yes Sir. I think you'll find them
"Very well, I shall go there. Much obliged for your inform-
ti"oocso     i
"No occasion Sir; just go down this street, No. 279; you can
ha  rdl miss  foit o w ed. th
Charles followed the directions and reached the store just as
the oor Wee opnedforthepublic.
"r. Ruby in ?" he asked the janitor.
"N6 Sir, Mr. Ruby is hardly ever he.e before 12  'clock;
his partne., Mr. Brillant, is  tevr oe.2o'            but
"That will answer" the young     e
of the store to a'small rom w wman replied,walking the length
by a gls-pattoadb        h   eka separated from the store
byaglass partition, and by the desk, stools adamcar    n
Flounced itself at once as th "    sol and armI-chairs an-
.ahoung m a won was the office. On entering Charles found
?f young man, who was sitting" in."g an arm-chair, readingohemon
ing paper. When he observed the stranger, heai    the morn-
him ad riing o                politely saluted
him and rising to his feet, asked what he wished.
"I wanted to see Mr. Ruby on business; but since he is absent
as I hear, any other head of the firm will answe well.
"I am his partner, Sir. Please take a seat."
After following the invitation, Charles drew a small apet-
from his pocketed                            s    paperbox
"M.      Brilliant. if I am right.

; ;
s
;:
._            ,
.Y   _ -
r    ,     ki' x
a      '' ,


"Brillant, Sir, is my name."
"Well Mr..Brillant,'I have by Inheritance become heir of a fire
selection of diamonds, which I should like to dispose of. I need
the money more than the jewels, besides being no great admirer
of trinkets of that kind
"Have you got the stones with you'?"
"Yes, Sir. I have some of them. I was afraid to carry a
larger number on account of the insecurity of larger-cities such
as Boston."
Mr..Brillant took the box and opened it.  On perceiving the
stones, he started: that was more than he had expected. He had
seldom seen a more brilliant selection of diamonds and yet this
young man said, they were only a part of those in his possession.
The enthusiast for once got the better of the shrewd business
man and he said:
"My dear Sir, do you know, that you have a fine selection of
diamonds there. Your relative must have been a pretty rich fel-
low, to leave you such diamonds?"
"He was an old bachelor and a queer kind of a fellow. I never
knew him.personally, but those that did, tell me, that he was fond
of collecting them."
"May I request your name Sir Y"
"Why?"
.Because we could hardly venture on so large a purchase with-
out knowing the name of the owner and receiving some good re--
ference. They might be... .".'
"Stolen?" Charles continued, when the other hesitated, half
vexed, half amused at the idea.
"Do I look like a thief, Sir?"
"No, Sir,.you do not and you must pardon my straiglitforwhrd-
ness. But we cannot always take a person's looks as an index
for his character and if you had been bitten as often as we, Sir.
you would not only find our caution excusable but even neces-
sary."
Charles'muted a moment.     S
"Do you happen to know a certain Mr. Fox of Foxville, State
of 'Maine?"-
"Mr. Edward Fox, owner of a Cutlery-factory?"
"The very same" Charles said greatly relieved at the thought

of being able now, to refer to him, "Would.
answer your purpose, even if I prefer to maintainhmy
"Perfectly Sir.'',pee"omina                 ynontp
Without any further words Charles stepped to a desk, penned .
few lines and after folding and envelop,           ee    a
toM.EdadFo       oenevlpng the note, addressed it
to Mr. Edward Fox-.,Hotel, No. 8.
"So" he said, turning again to Mr. Brilant"if   have the
kindness to send this to its address, you'llave sasfave in
less than ten minutes."
Mr. Brilliant called a boy, ordering him to carry the letter to
the address and wait for an answer. Then he resumed his exami-
nation of the stones and was still engaged with that agreeable
pastime when the boy returned with an answer. On opening it,
Mr. Brillan t read as follows :

Mr. Brillant

Hotel Nov. 5th. 1858.

Dear Sir !
I heartily edreaytaselno
you set     endorse any transaction of the writer of the note
he sents.   Y   may consider me as responsible for anything
he does.                   Yours truly
EDW . Fox.
"That is more than sufficient, Sir," Mr. Brillant addressed our
friend. "I beg pardon again for my necessarycaution.aaddrsae
you already fixed a value on these stones?"
"Only a very vague one, Sir. To tell
I~~~~ ambuellr'u            you the honest truth, Sir,
I am but a poor judge of precious stones and came to
cause you have the reputation of great fairness. State t yobsum,
you can afford to give for the stones and I am indSto ths
that I shall accept your offer"icned to think,
Mtr. Brillant now -xmne
ful manan t nowlexaind ftone after stone in the most care-
fkil manner. It took him fully half-anhu  ogttruh       u
when he was through he had also made um to mind.
"These are beautiful stones," he said "but then so
have to be cut and that is rather expensive, We could give you
fifty thousand dollars for the stones, and not a cent more."
Charles had taken somewhat. less than half the stones. The
offer was morecthan he had expected, and he at oncessignified his
rediess to accept it.
"You will double your sum on those
that is no more than fair.sA  a  oe diamonds f  tesaidbu

. ° , x  ,

DOQLORES."

254.

DOLO~tES.

250)


DOLOR.ES
dollars for nothing. I shall take your offer, provided I can have
the sum at once,"
Mr. Brillant scratched his head:
"Fifty thousand dollars are no child's play. Can you wait till
noon ?"
"I can."
"Then the stones are mine. Here, take them and if you will
call about twelve o'clock, you will find me ready to pay you."
"I don't want the stones with me" Charles replied. "A due
note to'the full amount answers my purpose."
Mt. ,Brillant wrote the note and Charles after pocketing it,
withdrew from the store. He hurried back to the hotel and tak-
ing his carpet-bag with him, was going to start on a second expe-
dition when the clerk stopped him.
"The gentleman, who arrived with you, seems to be in great
tribulation about your absence. He talks a language I do not
understand-German I believe-and perhaps you had better see
him a moment, just to put him at his ease.".
Charles laughed.
"The old fool !" he cried. "Have you nobody in the house,
that speaks his language?"
"One of the waiters does, Sir."
"Well then, just tell him to bear with me for one more hour.
If I go up, I'll never disengage myself again. The old fellow is
a perfect sticking plaster."
"Very well, Sir, I'll do your bidding."
Charles left the house andl walking down street, entered the of-
fice of the first private king house, he came to.
"What do you pay for doubloons?" he asked a man behind the
counter.
The banker stated the price.
"Do you feel disposed to buy any?"
"As many as you have" the man said with a smile.
Charles opened his valise and as he pulled out bag after bag
and placed them in a line on the counter the countenance of the
banker gradually became more respectful. So it is in the world.
They dont value us according to what we are, but what we have
and their faces, like thermometers, indicate the degree of respect
which, according to their opinion, corresponds with our means.

DOLOINES 2.
When the valise had become
beoeexhaulsted, thebankeanaf
assistants counted the doubloon8 with the rapidi   and a few
peculiar tonhe tribetAetrapidity and accuracy
pecuoar toue te. Afer counting, the lead pencil wandered
for a minute over a piece of ae     n   h   aclto      en
finished, it a  aifeo    h   paper and the calculationben
Finsed, t was laid before Charles without a word of explanation.
on them?                  ' what use is there in wasting breath
Charles had made his own calculation at home. The di
was too immaterial, to cavilover t an     he        ferenc
"Very well Sir."
"What kind ofmoed"
"None  t    noney (10 you want?"
your housts at present. I prefer a couple of accepted orders on
"To what amount"
"One eleven, the other nine thousand dollarss; payable to
bearer.                                        pybe"    t
"Here they are.
Charles pocketed theeodr
the hetp oted   these orders like the first one and then with
Fox was indlebedecto1. searched and found the firms whom Mr.
Calling at the th. creito- h
Fox' bill.         c         stated his readiness to settle Mr.
The man looked astonished.
"Why, how is that?" he asked. "He was here but yes
stating his inability. The debt is in the hand of ou ttorterdy,
coection."nefor
"You will withdraw it on payment?"
Of course we will."
"Here is a draft of eleven thousand dollars."
The head of the firm seemed to be a little ashamed an
imagined that Mr, Fox must have been subected   ndaCharles
rating treatment. Taking, his receipt, he strted fo rthe huni-
firm and only after having arranged there also matters to snd
satisfaction; he returned to the hotelmtal
"It is time you are coming, Sir' th   .    -
your friend is roaring like a hungry 1Bolok.salugh
Charles muttered something ik a 1.
uip stairs, taking three steps at a time.i Tecdo, o his ue's


I'

258

DOLORES.

room was left upon the latch and he could hear,, how the old gen-
tleman lamented in his native tongue to some one within.
"The young rogue!" he heard him cry "to leave his poor uncle
in such a fix! To leave him in a strange town, in a strange hot,
with no means to pay expenses! I might have known, it would
come to this, old fool that I was; yes, 1 might have known from
oaed me. But it shall cost him dear, this joke
upon his uncle. I shall without delay walk back to Foxville and
have him arrested for false pretenses, yes for swindling."
That was as much as Charles wanted to hear. Pushing the
door open with an energetic jerk, he rapidly stepped into the room
and stood before his uncle with brows contracted and Aflashing
eye, that portended little good to the whining adventurer. In
fact he stopped as suddenly as if a slap had shut his mouth; his
figure assumed a bent posture and his hands were clasped partly
in astonishment, partly in supplication.
Charles was on the point of giving way to his indignation; but
the presence of the waiter caused him to check himself.
"Please Sir, have the kindness to leave us for a moment" he
said to the servant and only when the main had obeyed his injunc-
tion, he addressed his uncle.
"What does this farce signify ? he said sternly. "Am I to in-
fer from your conduct, that you liave gone crazy? Indeed i no
other way can I explain to myself this ridiculous conduct."
"Now Charlie, please, don't be mad. I thought,-I feared-"
"Say nothing more, Sir, for I fear that your thoughts embod-
ied a gross insult to myself. I ask no excuses Sir; but this I say,
'if you once more conduct yourself in this disgraceful manner, Itat
shall at once leave you to your fate and take good care too,
the door of my father's house will not be opened again to you."
Uncle Jacob was completely cowed. Charles looked at his
watch: it was exactly twelve o'cl ck.
"Take your hat Sir and come w th me" he said in the same stern
tone. "I shall buy the drafts I promised you and then- dispatch
you without delay. There is but little pleasure in your company.
Uncle Jacob took his hat and silently followed Charles down
stairs. The clerk tried to catch a glance of intelligence from the
young man; but Charles was not at all willing to make him a

DOLORES.

259

party of thissembroglio and therefore passed him without vouch-
safing him a single look.
"Proud like the dickens !" the clerk muttered to himself. "I
shouldn't Wonder, if that poor old gentleman had good reasons
for his lamentations after all. If the trunk wasn't here, I would
present the bill at once."
Inconsistent Mr. Clerk! You are not the only individual, that
measures the character of others by the scale of his sensitiveness
A man is a perfect gentleman, if he smiles on you; but if he steps
by chance upon your corn, he is a low-bred pup.
Fortunately for Charles the remarks of e pup
him. Walking rapidly he soon reached the clerk who affect
chasd hi diaonds  Mr  ubhe jeweler, who had pur-
chased his diamonds. Mr. Ruby was present now and compli-
mented the stranger on the possession of such nice stones. Af-
ter redeeming their note and receiving the receipt ofalCharlesste  the
dealers requested him to call on them first in case he shouldsh
to dispose of his other stones. Th  he prmse a  hulefwish
the store, followed more than accompanied by his uncle, who
found difficulty in keeping up with his nephew's rapid ste, an
yet shunned to remonstrate with him. p
All at once Charles stopped. He had discover
attracted his attention. It read :
Transatlantic Steamship-Compay
A circular pasted to the show window informed the public, that
the splendid Steamer "Sea-serpent" wouldleave for ntwirpea
on the next morning; also that bills of exchange on any Eurpn
ean City Were sold and bought here at the cheapest rate.
' Charles had found what he wanted.
"Come in" he laconically addressed his uncle and entering the
buildingYdhsunl                          n   ntrn    h
,1uformed one of the clerks that he wanted to buy bills
of exchange on FIankfort and also engage a state-room on ths
Sea serpent.
"To what amount would you want the bills ?" the clerk in-
"Forty nine thousand Dollars in favor of Jacob Fuchs" Charles
p   saying as many notes on the counter.
The clerk smiled. They don't charge for smile's in money.in.
quitktions-but they don't smile on paupers either. They are y
such places but for forty nine thousand dollars they


260                     DOLORES.
surpass themselves. Charles had his bills in less than ten min-
utes.
"Now the state-room" he said.
"Exactly Sir. You can have your choice. Here is No. 28.
which I can recommend to you with a good conscience, because I
once made the trip in it myself."
"Let it be 28 then."
"What name Sir?"
"Jacob Fuchs."
"One hundred dollars Sir, if you please. Thank you. Here is
your ticket. You had better send your baggage to the vessel at
once."
"I shall, Sir. Good day."
"Now for the trunk and then to the vessel."
At the hotel Charles settled his uncle's bill and then ordered a
carriage.
"You forgot to pay your own bill" the clerk said somewhat in-,
pudently.
"I do not intend, to leave as yet."
"That makes no difference. It is our custom to collect the
fare in -advance, where there is no baggage to secure it-"
Charles pitched him a hundred dollar note.
"I commend your caution" he said derisively. "It speaks well
for the class of guests you deal with. Does that suffice as secur-
ity ?"
The Clerk was as susceptible to the influence of money as other
persons. Besides Charles had spoken haughtily and it is the
privilege of nabobs to order their fellowmen about. Handing
back the money he said:
"Never mind Sir, about the money. We can afford to make an
exception in your case."
"But I cannot afford to accept a favor from you, Sir. - Keep
the bill until we settle."
The clerk felt cheap, when Charles left the office.
"He must be something big" the consistant logical muttered
to himself.
ItWas a fact however: Charles had the airs of a duke.
Away the carriage rolled, landing them in due time at the pier
where the Sea-serpent lay at anchor. Entrusting the trunk to a

DOLORI '

porter, Charles led his uncle to the office of the steamer and on
presenting his ticket was shown to No. 28.
"tSit down Sir" the young man said, accompanying his words
with a motion of his hand and taking chair himself "I want to
settle withacobu
Uncle Jacob had not yet recovered from his depression; so he
yed his nephew and looked at him i
"Here are 49,000.00 Dolxpetato-
"He -Dollars in bills of exchange" the youu
n resumed. Here is your ticket and here the sum of $900.00
in cash. That makes 50,000.00, does it not?"
"Yes Charlie so it does. You are a good lad and I hope .."
aI hope that you will abstain from hoping anything at all. We
ar     e Sr andI shall now see, that you live up to the letter
andspirit of our contract. There is no necessity for leaving this
vessel any more : you know it will leave early in the morning?"
"Yes Charlie I know.
ere ob ehad better stay on board. If you dont, I will not
be responsible for any loses you may sustain."
"I shall stay on board, my boy. I am too glad to have reached
it,to leave it again this side of the Atlantic."
'Very Well. You will no longer need me now, and I may as
wish you a pleasant voyage and retire."
"Won't you shake hands Charlie?" Jacob said reproachfully.
"If it gives you any satisfaction why not?"
Charles spoke and shook hands with equal coldness. He could
not force himself to feign a sorrow he did not feel. His uncle's
character had filled him with extreme disgust.
Sodthey parted. Charles sincerely hoped for ever. He had or-
dered the cabman to wait for him and now rapidly drove to the
hotel. It was near dinner-time and Mr. Fox at home. Charles
knocked at his door and on the inmate's "Come in!" entered. Mr
Fox sat on a lounge; but Charles was frightened at the great
change, which the days of their separation had produced on his
face. The furrows on the forehead had deepened and the cheeks
looked pale and hollow. The lipv
hun d- - ps, not over-firm before, now
hung down with an expression of utter helplessness. On erceiv-
ing the young man, Mr. Fox half arose, with a shadow of his for-
n ovialit  i  s   face. He stretched his hand towards the

261


262                    DOLORES.
"Ah! there you are at last, my boy ! I have been expecting
you ever since the reception of your note. Was my reply of any
use to you ?"
'It was Sir and I thank you for your confidence."
"Confidence? Ah Charlie, I wish I could trust all the world as
much as you."
h      o           have dealt roughly with you my' dear Sir..
"The world seems to haednt     ogy
You look pale and haggard."
"The world is the world Charlie. It smiles upon the prosper-
ous; it frowns upon the unfortunate. It frowns upon me, my boy,
at present ; that tells the whole story."
"You have not been successful then in your endeavors ?"
"They have been worse than failures, Charlie. This Italian
war has made money so tight, that affairs have much the appear--
ance of a panic. I have tried every means to raise the ne essary
money, but I have failed. Everybody has treated me with such a
strange distrust, that I sometimes have felt inclined to see more
of it, than the general suspicion incident to times of panic."
"Mr. Wood's doings." Charles suggested.
"I shouldn't wonder; indeed I have thought so too. But that
fact does not much alter things. I cannot pay my debts: I lack
the means to carry on the factory and the sale of my property un-
der very disadvantageous circumstances rises before my mind as
an unavoidable calamity."
"Is the want of money the only thing that troubles you? Par-
don the question Mr. Fox, since it is dictated by the most sincere
sympathy."
"I know my boy, I know that very well" Mr. Fox said earn-
estly seizing and pressing Charlie's hand. "I wish ovidence
had bestowed upon me the gift of such a son. Indeed i gives me
pleasure to think of you as one related by the ties of consan-
guinity."
"Then Mr. Fox you will relate to me all that troubles you?
Perhaps I can relieve you more than you may think."
Mr. Fox shook his head.
That is hardly possible, my boy. My other sorrows are sor-
rows of the heart and engendered by the unworthy conduct of my
family: Do you understand me now?"
"I do Sir, but yet I do not despair of offering effective consola--

DOLORES.                        263
tion. First let me tell you, Mr. Fox that I have good news from
home"
"You allude to Mrs. Fox? Ah Charlie-ma-not-in
-   ali mynom this instance
good news be bad and bad ones good?"
Charles started.
"Mr. Fox" he said with somewhat of reproach in his tones "you
cannot really desire the death of a repentant sinner?"
"She is repentant then?" he asked with averted looks.
"Not so much in words as actions. We have managed to im-
press her with the belief, that the causes of her sickness are n-
known to all but her. This has quickened her recoveryand un-
doubtedly engendered her resolution to bury the l yast in oblivion
and begin a new life."
He stopped as if expecting a question on the part of Mr. Fox,
but when the gentleman preserved his silence, Charles continued:
"aer former aversion to Dolores has suddenly changed into so
ardent an affection as even to arouse the jealousy of gentle Lucy.
Indeed Dolores had to remain with her (lay and nigtandtohe
1he dy an     mgt and to her
care and magnetic influence the Doctor ascribes the rapid conval-
escenee of the patient."
Mr. Fox became interested against his will.
"And Dolores?" he inquired.
"Has conducted herself in this affair with the strange good tact,
she always shows. She nurses Mrs. Fox with the love and pat-
ience of a daughter and has even influenced Lucy's stubbornness
when she refused to pardon her erring mother."
Mr. Fox groaned.
"That is the point Charlie !" he cried "the thorn  my s
that turns my foot into poison and makes my nights sleepless.
Thus to be deceived by the mate of my house and bed! To have
the honor of my name sullied before the eyes of
it is enough to drive one to madness."ryingworld
Charles took Mr. Fox' hand.
"My dear Sir, will you tolerate the advise and consolation of
one as young as I?"
"Speak, my boy."
"Well, then, allow me to assure you, that you look at this in
too dark a light. As to the world ituwill never know thisfals
stepof  rs.Fo- Dcor Palmer is the only one outside our


264                  DOLORES.

family, who knows about it and I will answer for him as for my-
self."
"Yes Doctor Palmer is true."
"Very well. Henry fortunately was asleep at the time of the
the accident and the only dangerous witness has just taken the
steamer for Europe."4
"What do you mean?" Mr. Fox inquired with a start.
"My uncle Jacob. We have induced him to return to his native.
country. That is only one of the many strange events I have to
tell you. But everythfng in due time. At present let me return
to the poor patient at our house. We have all buried the occur-
rence in the deepest recess of our soul: Mr. Fox could you not
do the same? Could you not pardon the poor lady's offense and
allow her to open a new record? I know well enough, that you
are a deeply injured man ; but from what my mother says, there
has been such a radical change in Mrs. Fox, that there is no doubt
of much happiness in store for you, if yo can only overcome a re-
sentment, which, though natural, is neither christian nor politic.'
"You are a warm advocate Charlie" Mr. Fox said with a smile,
that drove much of the former gloom away from his countenance
'but you ask impossiblities. A man cannot change his heart in
the twinkling of an eye. All I'll promise you, is to make the
effort to forget."
"I ask no more. But in regard to the new state of affairs?"
"Of course I'll recognize them. The future will much depend
from her conduct."
"Then I predict a happy solution. But Mr. Fox there is another
sore spot, you haven't touched as yet. Let me spare you the pain
by stating that "Richard" is its name."
Mr. Fox nodded.
"Is he really getting so bad?"
"Yes, I have been obliged to listen to a long record of shame
and sin on my arrival here" Mr. Fox said with a sigh. "His em-
ployer has dismissed him long ago and thus far all my efforts to
ferret him out, have been unsuccessful.
"That is'too bad indeed. How may he manage to exist with.
out your support?"
"I fear he has received assistance from his mother; but that will
now be different and may as well be buried with other errors, I

DOLORES.                        265
must not dwell on it, or the task of forgivin' her, will bea 265
ted."o, wibaggrava-
"Then let us fre   tb    1
"The  le usforget it by all means. I am here now and to
can always accomplish moreathansone. I amus not ank two
going home, until we discover Richard's hiding place.
~  "But you forget the factory,         i    place.
~~hri.I ae esudrthink of its present conditoCah.Inmksmhde to
'nthesu of itspresnt c o. The hands have not been paid
and the supply of steel is nearly or entirely exhausted."
"Excusei my contradiction Sir; but the hands have been paid."
Mr. Fox was not merely startled
deutly idno udeserlystrte--he was puzzled. He ev-
detl lid not understand the other'smaig    Chrecul
surely not make sport of him'hte s meaning. Charles could
el c     maes       o       that would be outrageous under
the circumstances.
"Yes paid" Charles replied, evidently enjoying Mr. Fox' bei
derment. Besides that,   , na      enoyng     r.Foxlbwil.
and paider r.' B, a new supply of steel has been procured
an  adfor."
Mr. Fox got alarmed., Could it be barely possible
mind  of his  young  friend  should  ha ahsufred    edat the
him with a glance, that spoke hisaa re d? He Cooes et
joy ed his mytfctontomci apprehension ; but Charles en-
Jed      mystification too much, to end it all at once; so he con-
tinued:
"A tide of good luck has set in since your departure, Mr. Fox.
Will you have the kindness to examine thesepapers?"
"A receipt in full from Messrs. Steel&amp;Co. AnotherfromMessr.
Ironton, Bro. Charlie, what de  t     mAnoe, dont plsa
with me any longer. I might not be  e toand i me,   onper
A minute ago I feared for vo  rm                   h
for my Own.'                 reason-now I begin to tremble
Mr. Fox in saying this, laid h' h         -
thesam  tie h  loked  is hand upon his forehead. At
thsamehmenecessy ooedso very much perplexed, that Charles
saw the necessity of immediate explanation).
"Your reason is all right, Mr. F
I shall tell you a strange story.' ox and if you will listen to me
"Go on then Charlie, the faster the better:"
The young man told his story. It was as long as wonderful
and more than once Mr. Fox thought that the solution was more
Puzzling than the puzzle. Still he listed patin was end
but when Charles at last had d  iened patiently to the end;


266                     DOLORES.
pent-up feelings. Taking both the hands of his young friend he
shook them heartily and said:
"Charles, you are a greater jewel; than any your ancestor left
you in his will. Without you-what would I be to-day? By re
ceiving my wife into your house, you saved my honor, at least be-
fore the world. By plundering your own inheritance you sus-
tained my sinking fortune. What I am to-day, is your work-
Charles how can I ever pay this debt of gratitude."
The bright tears ran down the cheeks of Mr. Fox. It is en1-
barrassing to see a man weep and Charles therefore cried:
"Now please, don't Mr. Fox, I cannot stand it.--Y ou have borne
misfortune like a hero-don't let good luck unman you now."
"You are right, Charlie, right in this as in everything," r.
Fox said with a smile, drying up the evidence of his weakness.
"But now come at once and let me write you an acknowledge~
ment of my indebtedness. How much did the whole sum amount
to?"
"Never mind the sum. My father, and Dolores could not think
of receiving the gifts of fortune without bestowing a portion of
the blessing on the American branch of, the family. They want
you to consider yourself the owner of the sum advanced."
"No, Charlie, no, that will never do. How could I ever ..---
Charles stopped him rather abruptly.
"See here, Sir" he said somewhat sternly. "I just now took
uncle Jacob with fifty thousand Dollars to the Sea-serpent. Shall
we bestow that sum upon one so unworthy and be deprived of the
pleasure of bestowing less than one-half the sum  upon a man
whom we both love and respect?"
"But, he is an heir by right."
"You are an heir by nature and there is no more sacred right
than that. Now please Sir, say not another word, unless you
mean to hurt the feelings of a person, who deserves better treat
ment at your hands."
"I give in Charlie, I give in my boy, but if I ever forget you
this...."
"Now there again. We want you to forget this and many other
things. But there goes the gong Sir; come on to dmner--taling
has made me as hungry as a wolf."

DOLORES.                        267
CHAPTER XXVII.
A EAN HUNT.
Charles, young as he was, readily saw the reason, why Mr. Fox
had thus far failed, to find any track of Richard. He had merely
made underhand inquiries ; that is he had searched a pin in the
river, while standing on shore. There are only two ways of find-
ing the frequenter of dens of vice. One of them is, to pay the
police for lending you their eyes and the other-and far the surest
is to use your own. So while Charles humored his friend in see-
onding his efforts helept his own counsel and, at night, when
3Mr. Fox had retired to bed, started on expeditious of his Own
He hard read enough about large cities to know that criminals
and adventurers, who live on their wits, and devotees of low and
obscene pleasure seek the night as naturally, as the owls of his
native forest in pursuit of their game. He knew moreover, that
the frequentation of their dens were even more dangerous at
night, than during daylight; but that could not deter him from
his purpose. Armed with a small revolver, which could easily be
concealed in his breast.pocket and with a cane of solid material
he set out on his mission. Night after night he hunted the groo--
shops, the dancing-houses, the brothels of Boston; but evidently
to no avail. A week passed without bringing the least clue of
the lost son and Mr. Fox falling back into his previous despond-
ency, declared any further efforts useless and reminded Charles of
the necessity of returning to Foxville. In vain the young man
demonstrated the desirableness of prolonging their researches-
Mr. Fox hrd become so crabbed in consequence of his late mis-
fortunes. that he was difficult to manage and disinclined to hu-
nor Charlie's wishes.
"Very well" he finally answered his persuasions. "I give you
one more day. If we fail to discover any trace within that time
I shall give him up for lost and return to Foxvilie without him.
A father cannot be expected, to make himself a slave for the sake
of a degenerate son,"
Charles had to content himself with this reply; but he resolved
to make the most of this respite and to secure the assistance of a
skilled detective. On inquiry he learned, that a certain Mr'. Sly
Possessed the greatest reputation in that branch of business.
Mr. Sly might be found at the headquarters, if not engaged lie


268                     DOLORES.
he was informed and going there, Charles was so fortunate to find
his man. Mr. Sly took him to his office and inquired about his
errand.
Charles drew a ten dollar-note out of his pocket and handed it
to the detective.
"Please to accept this as a token of my consideration. If you
can help me in the accomplishment of my purpose, I shall give
you ten times that sum."
Mr..Sly replied, that it would give him pleasure to assist so con-
siderate a gentleman, and, thanks to the ten, lie meant what he
said.
Charles proceeded to state the nature of his wishes. He also
stated, that he had scoured all the dens of Boston for a week,
without even the shadow of success and that he thought he could
use the remaining day to no better purpose, than to renew his re-
searches under the guidance of Mr. Sly.
The detective meditated for a minute. Then lie asked:
"How old is the lad?"
"About seventeen."
"His name ?"
"Richard Fox."
"Formerly employed by Steel &amp; Co. you say?"
"Yes Sir."
"That firm could give no clue to his whereabouts?"
"No, Sir, they hadn't seen him for 6 months."
"Had he any passions? any favorite pastime while at home?"'
Charles started. That thought had never struck him.
"Yes, Sir, he was a complete jockey. He was only happy, when
in the stable or on horseback."
"That is important, Sir. I know a livery man that deals with
all the fops and dandies of the City. If it suits your pleasure,
Sir, we shall go to see him."
Charles answered by taking his hat.
"Mr. Sly, my purse is at your service" he said "don't hesitate
to take a carriage, whenever you deem it desirable."
"Yours is a wise policy, Sir. By using the horses legs instead
of yours, you'll double your time Hoh! Jimmy ! this way!"
Jimmy was a driver and obeyed the summons and a minute
after wards the new friends rolled towards the livery-stable in ques-

DOLORES.                       269
tion. It was not far from headquarters and before long the car-
riage stopped.
"Mr. Dash, allow me to intrduce my friend Mr. Fuchs to you.
"Mr. Fuchs, glad to see you. What can I do for you?"
"That's easily stated.  Mr. Fuchs is in quest of a voung
cosn, who always had a passion for the noble steed. You kee
the best horses and most stylish vehicles in the it.fposo
and it is natural, thatinoes tls  ehce  nte city of Boston
andri goisnatu, otha weshould apply to you for information be-
fore going to other parties."maonbe
"Very flattering, Mr. Sly, but yet correct. Please may I ask
the name of your relation?"
"Richard Fox of Maine."
"Handsome youth of seventeen, slender frame, fair hair mus-
tache in the actof sprouting?"
"The very man" Charles eagerly exclaimed. "Can you give us
any clue to his whereabouts?"
"Sorry to say no. Hasn't been here these three weeks. Out
of cash, I suppose, couldn't pay for the last horse, he hired.
mtis too bad "Charles cried with much clisappoiit
aceton'    Sly, I am afraid, we'll have to shift our stage of
"Not too fast Mir, Fuchs, if you pi
until yo idabte      n    ho please. Never give up a t rail
unt you find a better one: that is our first rule, Sir. Mr. Dash,
don't yon recollect any customer of yours with whom Mr. Fox
used to be intimate?"                                  o
Mr. Dash hesitated a moment.
"See here, S yI  lout a  mnt.
"Se  re, why, Idont want to go to court on this affair."
"Court? what do you think Sir? I know better than that. Your
as welwll hell out  r   ou have no other scruples, you may
aswel helutyou news."
"well, on that condition I have no objection to let you know,
that Mr. Fox was very intimate with Charles Burlesque."
"BuresqueoneYou mean the comedian?"
"The very one."
"Thank yuS-r     o, r     u
ur trail you in No, Mr. Fuchs, to the carriage if you please.
O      reis gaming in distinctness. Jimmy, do you happen to
know whee Brlesuethe actor, lives?"
"Funny Charlie? I thinkacto, EIves?"
tell you."o. Everchil


fro                     DOLORES.
"Drive to the house then, but fast. Double rations for you and
your nag, you know."
*Three cheers for yer-honor!" Jimmy shouted and away the
cab flew with commendable speed.
"Here we are!" Jimmy cried, stopping the carriage and opening
th'e door. "Up that flight of stairs, you can't miss it."
"All right Jimmy."
Sly and Charles ascended the flight of stairs and soon discov-
ered a sign with the actor's name on a backdoor.
"Come in !" a merry voice answered the knock at the door
"How do you do, gents ? Take a chair and excuse me for failing
to rise. I am lame just now."
"Lame Mr. Burlesque? I am sorry to hear it and so will the
public be. I dont see what they'll do without Mr. Burlesque, to
set their laughing muscles a going."
"Oh, Sir, it isn't as bad as that!" the actor cried. "You see
my lameness merely affects my pocket. I am out of boots, out
of pants, out of linen,-in short, I am out of sorts."
"But how do you manage to play?"
"Oh, my wardrobe is good enough for lamplight yet. In that
cravat I was a king last night. But these Bostonians are so con-
foundedly particular, that they would cry : "stone him!" if I dared
to make my appearance on State Street in this fashion." -
"But when do you eat?" Charles inquired. He was so amused
at the light-hearted son of Thalia, that for a, moment he forgot
his -object.
"At night, Sir, on whatever I can get, and that is deuced little.
Romance, Sir, is getting scarcer every day and soon the happy
days will be a reminiscence of the past, when a fellow could get
an oyster supper and a bottle of claret without paying for it."
"You are painting darkly Sir. I should like you to look at
things from a brighter point of view: would you have any objec-
tion to a small loan, to put you in ondition, to appear before the
public in becoming decornm?" -
The actor raised himself upon one elbow.
"Mr. Sly, just have the kindness to touch that gentleman's
shoulder. Is he real"
"Of course he is: why do you ask?"
The comedian fell back upon his couch.

DOLORES.                        271
"That is an enigma worthy of solution," he said as if in solil-
oquy. "A real live person, that offers a loan to an actor without
being asked to do it."
"You have not signified your pSir"
"Have I hurt your feelings ?"
"No Sir, but you have puzzled my wit. - When do you want the
money back, Sir?"
1 5"Whenever you can spare it,"
"Tiat may be never."
"It suits my convenience. "
This time the actor jnmped to the floor
"Allow me to shake hands with you, Sir" e
ing, that shone through all his mi'th. "    he    fdsta fe
nderstaad the story of Diogenes and the anterior.  t wht ca
I do for you gents? I iaines         atr. Bt what can
I d fo yu gents?. I imagine you hadn't called for nothing
a cripple ?"                                    nothing on
"No Sir, we have an object in view,- We'are in search of one
of your friends."
"Speak more concisely man. The nubi
gion.".               e nuber of my friends is. le-
gion."
"And yet you suffer want?" Charles inte
"By friends I mean of course thosedwhom   .   "
"Ah'"s                                 I befriend.
"Now you ufiderstand; but which of  -friends
"A yonng man by the name of Fox."
"Aho Dick Fo. The poor fellow is crippled like myself, the
governor has ceased to send remittances and he keelps his sofa
like myself. Its only at nights that I neetime kep h  sofa
"But you know his residence?"
The actor started. His look became.
"What do you want with him? Do suspicious.
on account of debts? Is this merely a bribe, to betray himinto
the hands of justice? If that is so, take lack your money., I
am no Judas."
The more Charles saw of the actor, th b
"No Sir, be easy and keep your money," he he li him.
the slightest notion to harm the lad. Heis a cousi   e n
as to his debts, I am more disposed to pay, a n of mine and
"I do not doubt your words, becausepIa ,'tha eenyou uaootis


272                    DOLORES.
Yes, Sir, I know the whereabouts of Dick Fox. He lives 107 -
Street, second floor hack room."
"Thank you Sir," Charles resumed, writing down the number
and street. "You have done me a greater service'than you think
and if ever you need the assistance of a friend-do you under..
stand, a real friend, that differs from the legion you possess,-
you call on me. Here is my name and residence."
"I take the offer, as you give it. Have you any objections if I
call on you before you leave town?"
"Not the-slightest. You'll find me No. 19-Hotel. But you
must excuse me, Sir, as I am in a great hurry to find my cousin.
I intend to leave for home to-morrow"
Another hearty shake and they parted. Charles was astonished
to find so much principle and genuine honor in so gay a fellow,
but if he had seen a little' more about the world he'would have
found, that it is not always the sedate, portly gentleman with
standing collar, white necktie and a goldenheaded cane, that is
the embodiment of honor.
The street and number were given to Jimmy and once more
that equestrian pegasus made the wheels fly, as if he had under-
stood the hint about the double rations. Oh the way the two de-
liberated about the best mode of securing Richard's- voluntary
company.
"Burlesque spoke about debts" Mr. Sly suggested.  "How
would it do, to take him between kind persuasions aid stern
menaces,to press him into acquiescence?'
"The idea is good Sir. I shall introduce you in your official
capacity and thereby awe him into submission.
The carriage stopped before a house of rather shabby appear-
ance. A dirty flight of, stairs led into the second story and the
banister was so greasy, that Charles preferred to ascend without
its, assistance. On reaching the second floor the two examined
the doors. There were no signs on them; but as there was only
one leading to the rear part of the house, they knocked at it at
random. This time they received no summons, but a step was
heard approaching the door. A key was turned and the door
slightly opened. The hall was dark and as the visitors could not
be recognized, the inmate opened his door a liltle wider, to let the

DOLORES.                       273
light from within fall upon their faces. Then Charles recognized
his relative and stepping forward with a rapid step, he exclaimed.
"Richard Fox! it is really you?"
On hearing his name, the inmate made a rapid motion, to shut
the door; but Charles had anticipated such a course and set his
foot beyond the sill. At the same time he gave the. door a vig-
orous push and thereby making it escape theaother'n grasp.
"Charles Fuchs !" he cried with a mixture of surprise and in-
dignation. "What does this signify? Who gives you the right
of thus intruding into my room? Depart at once or I shall be
compelled to eject you forcibly."
"Richard Fox, you had better think twice before you act so
rashly. I intrude my presence upon you in the sacred right of
ambassador. Your father sends me here, Sir."
The calm dignified conduct of the visitor had its effect upon
the youth.
"Come in then and state your errand ; but be brief if you
please; ,I have neither the time nor the inclination, to listen to a
speech."
"I am not at all inclined, to make one. Your father's message
is as short, as plain. It is embodied in two words: come home!"
"And if I decline, to follow the injunction?"
"I am authorized to use force. Here in this companion of
mine you see a member of the city police."
Richard stepped back in evident surprise.
"We have learned of the contraction of certain debts of yours,
Richard, which are very apt to lead you into difficulties. You
have only the choice between wandering into prison or your
father's arms."
"And you, you have ferreted me out ?" the young man cried
with flashing eyes and clenched fists. "I thank you, Sir, and hope
the day may come, when I can pay you back."
"These are idle threats, Richard," Charles replied with a calm;
deportment, that gave him a great advantage over his excited ad-
versary. "Your time you say, is measured : so is mine. You will
oblige me by stating without delay, whether you prefer to follow
me or this gentleman,"
. Richard saw himself driven to the wall,
"How will my fatlier'0receive me, if I come?"
I8


"I guarantee you a lenient reception. To grant yot more, is
beyond my power. It is your affair to win back your father's love."
"Do you know, what he intends to do with me?"
"I think he means to take you home at present; but this is not
the time nor place to negotiate. I want your final answer.'
"I'll go."
"Very well, Sir. Have the kindness to prepare your luggage
for removal."
A flush of shame passed over Richard's features.
"I have no luggage," he answered sullenly.
"No other clothing?"
"Well, then we must procure some on the way. You cannot
appear in a beggar's garb before your father. Take your hat."
By this time the authoritative manner of Charlie had begun to
make an impression upon Richard and he obeyed his injunction
without reply. When he was ready to go, Charles said to him:
"Allow me to insinuate, that you are yet in a measure the mas-
ter of your actions. You can make an attempt at flight if you
choose; but in that instance, I shall withdraw my protecting hand
from you and surrender you to my companion. He is tolerably
expert in catching runaways and in case of capture I shouldn't
at all wonder at half-a-dozen suits of swindling finding their way
to .the newspapers, .I have nothing more ,to say, Sir, and you
may now suit your pleasure. Let us go."
Richard's spirit was completely broken. It is doubtful whether
he would have attempted flight even on discovering that Mr. Sly
was merely acting as a scarecrow. They went down stairs and
entered the carriage. Jimmy had to drive first to a clothing store,
then to a shoemaker, then to a hatter. He felt proud of the pat-
ronage he was permitted to exercise that day. At last he had to
drive to Charles' hotel, where he was dismissed with the promised
double rations. That of the horse he received in cash and it is
to be hoped, for the sake of his conscience, that he didn't cheat
his fourlegged partner out of his dues.
Mr. Sly took his departure at the door; Charles had managed
to slip the stipulated sum into his hands unseen by Richard.
That young man became more and more crestfallen as the mo-
ment of meeting his deeply injured father approached.

Charles took him first to his room.
"Stay here, until I call you" he said to him. "IFwant to
pare your father for your appearance."                pre-
.    Going out he locked the door, leaving Richard as a prisoner.
But the youth did not care; he was more afraid now of the nlock
ing' than the lockig of the door. Charles on the other hand
descended to Mr. Fox' room, and finding him at home, entered in
to his presence. There was something his min, that'
the other's attention.
"You have found him, have you?" he exclaimed with an effort
at calmness. But Charles saw how his lips quivered and his
hands trembled.
"Yes Sir," he answered, deeming it best to avoid all e
I have found him and less depraved, that we had reason to
"And where--where is he ?"
"In my room Sir; but in order to overcome his reluctance, to
follow me, I have promised, that he should finc in you aanet
judge and father. Are you prepared to verify that promise
Yes Charlie" Mr. Fox said softly. "I don't pretend to b
better than the father in the parable. I am prepared to kill th
calf, for any boy, that has been given back to me."
Charles left without speaking another word. On reaching  h'
room he beckoned Richard:
"Come!"
 The way to the room of Mr. Fox was traversed in Silence.
Charles opened the door and pushed his trembling companion in.
Then he shut the door-it was not meet, that this meeting should
be profaned by the eyes "f a third party....
....That evening a happy trio took the northern train.
-
CHAPTER XXVIII.
A TRESPASS ATONED--A DEBT CANCELLED.
Charles had telegraphed from Boston and Mr. Fuchs w
the depot with the .wagon. He was surprised at the sight of
Richard, but suppressing every sign of that emotion as bst he
could, he heartily shook hands with him and with his father Af
er Putting on the baggage, the party got on board and stArted

1

C

-01,41\                                                        1

DOLORES.

DOLORES.s

274

275

I


276                     DOLORES.
for the village. Mr. Fuchs had to answer many questions, but
Charles thought he noticed a certain something, a reserve in his
manner, that was not natural. Still he said nothing, intending to
askanexplanation on the first chance he had. Mr. Fuchs had re-
ported "all right" in response to questions concerniugounot-
tage and factor and if anything else was wrong, it could not be
very serious .On reaching the factory however, he thoug  e
noticed an unusual stir about the building. A crowd was stand-
ing in the yard and as they came abreast the yard, they saw the
offestanding open and within it a plain coffin resting on two
chairs. A foreboding seized his mind, and grasping his father's
arm he said.
"It isn't-his body?"
Mr. Fuchs nodded.
Yes Charlie it is his bod. It seems, providence made you in-
YeCal in dawig the sinner to an early account. The revol-
rtwhich you gave into the hand of old Josiah, sent off the fetal
bullet."
.' Understand these allusions. He became restive
Mr. Fox did not ndrtn      eea        .
and inquired with' evident curiosity.
" W homnq uire u  t al e ad n t ?  Som ebody  w as  killed  w ith  a  pistol
"Whom do. you t-lkabo"t
shot, it seems. Who was it? speak !"
"Mr. Fox I did not nean to push this matter to your face the
very moment of your return; but I could not, help it. re
arrangements for his buri  d  ben made he      recived
Charlie's dispatch, and I could not well change the hour, without
giving rise to idle speculationsMm
"But the ~ nameSr h ae ! Mr. Fox exclaimed impatiently.
"But the name, Sir, then  h   ubepatc        fhsery
For once Mr. Fuchs forgot the humble practice of his early
oays.r Te remained perfectly quiet and turning his full face to
the inquirer, said.    -Te             r      t   m   that
"Can you not guess, his name?.  h cops    of the  cofan-
has so deeply injured you in heart and purse, lies in you cofti-
his soul may even now tremble before the tribunal of retribu-
tion?"
Now Mr. Fox understood.'d- He was evidently deeply =ovet
and folding his hands exclaimed:
"Wood! her cousin! is it possible?"

DOLORES.                       277
"Does my wife know?"
"No, Sir, we thought best not to tell her at so critical a period."
Again a silence. After a while Mr. Fox resumed:
"Please tell me the particulars. It will ease me, to know all
about it."
The others were equally anxious and listened with suspended.
breath to Mr. Fuchs' recital.
"I can only give you the story Josiah told me," he said. "The
second night after Charlie's departure, the watchman saw some-
body creeping about the office. It was near midnight and dark
and on Josiah's summons the noise ceased. But the watchman
had been cautioned by Charlie in regard to the office and the
mere cessation of the noise did not satisfy him.  So he walked
up to the spot, where he had noticed the suspicious movements.
By the light of his lantern he was enabled to see the form of a
human being cowering in the corner made by the office-walls and
the fence. The man saw no chance of escape; except by running
past the watchman. He rose and started but his face becoming
visible Josiah disc vered that it was the superintendent's.
"Mr. Wood!" he xclaimed.
"That exclamation sealed the fate of the intruder. On hearing
his name he stopped-at least Josiah says so-and cursing the
person, who dared to interfere with his designs, sprang towards
the watchman with a dagger in his hand. It seems to have arou-
sed his anger, to see himself discovered; else it is hard to under-
stand, why he should have stopped his flight. Perhaps he also
wanted to satisfy an old grudge against the watchman, who seems
to have been a thorn in his side, preventing him from moving
freely in his nightly operations-at all events, if the statement of
Josiah is correct, the superintendent ran towards him with mur-
derous intentions and justified the use of the revolver, as an act
of self-defence.. Josiah fired but one shot, the bullet penetrating
the forehead and killing him on the spot."
"And what-what do the people say about this?"
Mr. Fox gasped on asking this question.
"They generally share the opinion of the coroner's jury, which
readily acquitted Josiah of all .blame and passed the verdict of
death in consequence of unjustifiable assault upon a fellow-being.
The knowledge of' the late conduct of the dead man may have


278                    DOLORES.
influenced public opinion, or it may n t-it isn't my business to.
sit in judgment over the jury."
Here the subject was dropped and the balance of the way tra-
versed in silence. ~ Mr. Fox had arrived in so contented a mood
aud now this tragedy must occur and cast a gloom  over the as-
pect of affairs. He felt sad indeed on arriving at the cottage;
but the joyous cry from the lips of Dolores and the more quiet
demonstrations of joy on the part of Lucy had the effect of cheer-
ing him again. He "wandered from the arms of one into those of
another and the welcome from Mrs. Fuchs was hardly less warm
than that of the girls. She took him and Richard into the- par-
lor and from her expectant look it was evident that she was anx-
ious for him to broach a certain delicate matter. Mr. Fox under-
stood it very well; but he had, to undergo a last violent struggle
before he could force himself to ask the question:
"And Mrs. Fox, how is she to-day?"
A pleasant smile and grateful look on the part of Dolores re-
warded him for his effort and Mrs. Fuchs also seemed to be grat-
ified, for it was in her happiest tone that she thanked him for the
inquiry and stated, that Mrs. Fox was not only a hundred-per-cent
better than on the day of his departure ; but also extremely anx-
ious to see him.
"She knows then, of our arrival?"
"She knows that you are here; but we thought best, to say no-
thing as yet about Richard's presence. We thought too much
emotion might imperil her recovery."
"Well, you are right madam and thoughtful as ever. I shall
manage to break the news tb her so as to avoid excitement - What
room shall I find'her in? No, Dol, not you; Mrs. Fuchs will have
the kindness, to point out the way. I'll soon be back children."
They all understood, that he wanted no witnesses to his in-
terview. Nor did Mrs. Fuchs presume to go any further than to
the door. Stopping there and laying her hand upon his arm, she
said in a low voice and with pleading earnestness:
"Spare her, Mr. Fox! She is weak and penitent."
He nodded.
-'Fear nothing, madam. I shall endeavor to secure your appro-
bation."
Mrs. Fuchs smiled and then stepped back. He on the other

I

DOLORES.                       279
hand opened the door and entered the room. Mrs. Fox was sit-
ting in an armchair and attracted by the noise turned her head.
A deep blush spread over her face, when she recognized her hus-
band. She tried to rise; but her weakness or emotion, or per
haps a union of both caused a failure of the effort. She sank
back into her seat and the hand, that had grasped the arm of the
chaeto sustain the movement now held on to it, to hide the tre-
mor which had seized it.
Mr. Fox had seen the effort and its failure. He had also seen
the ravages, which the recent sickness had committed on her face.
Her cheeks had sunk away, her lips lost their color, and the dark
hair contrasted strongly with the thin pale countenance. Her
eyes looked larger than before and Mr. Fox thought he saw a
meek resignation, an humble prayer for forgiveness in them, which
touched him deeply. A minute before he had thought, that in.
showing kindness and compassion lie would have to play a role;-
but there was no acting in his motion, when stepping forward and
raising his hand in admonition, he cried:
"Don't Caroline! you are too weak to rise. How do you do
to-day? I am glad to hear that you are rapidly recovering."
In saying this he had approached her and extended his hand in
greeting. But she shook her head and warding off his hand, she
said:
"Edward, you are very kind; but I cannot consent, to abuse
your kindness. Are you aware that---that you offer your handto
one-to one, that broke ?the pledge of affection and fidelity she
swore to you before the altar,?"
At first Mrs. Fox had faltered considerably in making this con-
fession; but towards the end her voice had become at once lower
and firmer. Her head was bowed upon her hand and in breath-
less suspense she waited for his answer. At last it came. He
Was still standing and looking down with a mixture of grief and
compassion he replied:
"Caroline, I am aware of it."
She shook her head with a mournful sadness.
"You cannot know all, Edward, or  ou would not thus kind
offer me your hand. I have sinned and have to bear    ly
The                           breathe penalty.
The blackness of my heart must be laid open to you, before I can
appeal, to you, to decide m  etn.


280                    DOLORES.
. "Caroline, that is a useless seiftorture. In torturing yourself,
you also torture me. I assure you that you can tell me nothing
new. I know your whole mistake and have forgiven it."
"I thank you, Edward. I had no right to hope for this. But
your forgiveness merely affects the past: you are also the arbiter
of my future. Dispose of me according to yonr pleasure and I
assure you, that I shall kiss the rod, that strikes me."
Mr. Fox shook his head.
"Caroline you little know my heart, if you deem me capable of
playing the part of the stern judge, who must condemn the deed,
even if he pai'dons the offense. No Caroline, our relation before
the eyes of the world must continue as it was before. We owe it
to ourselves, to our children, to these kind friends, who have ex-
erted themselves day and night to guard our name from evil re-
pute. As to my feelings, Caroline, I solemnly assure you, that I
harbour nothing in my heart, that bears the character of anger or
revenge. I have fully and from the bottom of my heart forgiven
you-more you cannot ask at present. If I told you differently,
you would not credit my assertions and a new obstacle would rise
between us. Men cannot change their feelings in a day; butCar-
oline, if what they say is true, if youm have really laid off the char-
acter of former days and assumed that spirit of gentleness and
meekness, which adorns a woman above every other grace-then
Caroline I shall with gladness welcome you back to my arms and
hear and bless the day, which turned a seeming curse into a bles-
sing. Now let me ask you: will you on these conditions return
to me and accept the hand, you did refuse before?"
Copious tears streamed over her cheeks; but she made no effort
to check them and taking his hand replied:
"I thank you Edward.' You grant me infinitely more, than I
had reason to expect. But you will see, that you have not be
stowed your charity upon one undeserving. Henceforth your wel-
fare shall be my constant prayer, your happiness my study. Oh!
why was I condemned, to wander in my blindness all these years!
why did I with my perversness check your salutory influence up-
on our boy and thus become instrumental in urging him myself
upon the road of vice!"
She hid her face and her tears threatened to assume the char-
acter of hysterical sobs. Mr. Fox thought, that under the cir-

DOLORES.                       281
cumstances a sudden announcement of her son's return might do
no harm; but rather act as a strong restorative to mental health
and vigor. So he said:
"Dont cry Caroline. In this instance as in others a kind pro-
vidence has averted the worst consequences of your errors.
Richard is not lost to you, he lives, he has returned with me and
longs for your permission to lay down into your hand the pro-
mise of a better life."
The medicine -was powerful, but in this instance it had been
properly administered and served as a check for the sinking spirit
and despondency of Mrs. Fox. On her husband's announcement,
she raised her head; her sobs ceased as if by magic and extend-
ing her hands, she cried:
"Richard! my son, where are you? Oh Edward, if you have
any compassion upon your erring but repenting wife, go bring
hm here, the missing one; him, whom I had given up for doubly
lost."
Mr. Fox left the room and a minute afterwards his son entered
the door.
"Richard!"
"Mother!"
The two lay in one another's arms and their tears mingled in
one copious stream. Mr. Fox had not returned; perhaps he
thought, that such a scene would be profaned by even a father's
presence. Reader, let us drop the curtain, to look in at them is
not meet any more for us, than him. The relation of mother and
child--though sullied by the dross of sinful passions-is always
sacred. Let us respect it.
CHAPTER XXIX.
PLANNING ALL AROUND.
Calmer days were following this stormy season; cahn within,
though rough and ungenial without. The family of Mr. Fox had
soon after his arrival returned to the mansion and the indis-
guised joy of Susan and the other servants had brought tears
into the eyes of their mistress. For the first time in allher mar-
ried life she seemed to comprehend the meaning of the word
"home." Mr. Fox although prepared for a change, had hardly


282                     DOLORES. -
dared to hope, that it would be so radical; and when Mrs. Fox
declared, that she was not well enough, to go to the city, but .de-
lighted at the thought of spending the winter hi their snug com-
fortable country home; when he saw her devotedness to ,Dolores
and made unceasing efforts to make the girl forget her former
hostile coldness; when she almost forced Mrs. Fuchs'to frequent
intercourse and insisted upon the rights and privileges of rela-
tionship-when all these strange changes developed themselves
before his eyes; he felt that the moment of reinstating her into
her former privileges, had already come and that, if he delayed
a confession of that fact, he merely hesitated from a fear of see-
ing these fine improvements all at once dissolve in vapor.
But such a fear was without the least foundation. Mrs. Fox,
was the first, to call her husband's attention to the fact, that Fox
ville would hardly furnish t'he means of finishing such an educa-
tion of the girls, as the times required of their station in life.
"You do not like the City," she continued, "and I too have lost'-
all taste for it - Would it not be proper then to select a good
boarding school, where Lucy and Dolores could finish their edu-
cation and acquire such accomplishments, as make home pleas-
ant? They both have fine voices and Dolores a great taste for
drawing and much as I hate the thought of losing their cheering
influence at home, I think e are hardly justifiable in allowing
motives of selfishness to, detain us from giving them every op-
portunity to improve their talents."
"I do not like boarding schools, Caroline," Mr. Fox replied,,
"but if you really are in earnest regarding your resolution, of
making Foxville your permanent home, I do not see how we can
avoid them. The girls certainly need further opportunities and
so I suppose we must choose the smallest of two evils. Do you
know of any good school in the neighbourhood, where they might
go? Mind I can notentertain the thought of sending them too
far away."
"Nor I either Edward. I really know of none that I could re-
commend at present; but don't you think, that Mr. Goodman-
could guide us in our selection? He is largely acquainted in the
State and I have no doubt, that he could furnish the desired in-
formation."
"We can at least try him, but Caroline this suggestion of yours

DOLORES.                       283
has called another matter to my mind, that needs attention  The
question is: what profession is our Richard to chose for life? H
has failed in mercantile pursuits; for a scholar he seems but poorly
qualified: what course then had weinyuopinbetavs
him toadopw? in your opinion best advise
him to adopt?"
"I hardly know Edward, and even if I had an idea, I should
hardly venture to disclose it. My influence on tea I hs
attended with such pernicious consequences, Edward, that I want
you to decide yourself.'?
Mir. Fox smiled.
"That's what I call a very cunning way of shirking responsi-
bilities; but you put the load upon my shoulders in such a grace-
ful manner, that I cannot well object. I have indeed been think-
ing of a calling that could not fail to exercise a healthy influence
upon our boy; but I have been hesitating to broach it because
feared your opposition."
She shook her head with a melancholy smile
"I see, my efforts have as yet been unsuccessful, to convince you
of my earnest purposes; nor have I reason to complain: ah! it
is hard to win back a husband's confidence, when once forfeited."
"No Caroline, dear Caroline, do not say that, for it is not the
case. Continue your present course and you will redeem even
more than you promised."
"Thank you Edward ; your words do make me happy. But you
have failed to mention the profession, you think adapted to our
Richard."
"Well, Caroline, what do you think of the sea?"
Mrs. Fox started, her cheeks blanched: she folded her hands
on her. bosom and cast a supplicating glance at her husband,
That was all the answer he received.
"There !" he said, smiling. "I thought as much. A mother
always thinks of the sea with a shudder, when it comes to trust-
ing her son toithe mercy of the treacherous element."
"No, Edward, indeed I do not object. My first emotionwas one
of fear, it is true; but that once conquered I am far from disapin on
proving your choice. I think myself, that the rii discplin onp
board the ship would have a salutary effect upon  edickle  on
acter of our boy. But will he not object?"
-"If you agree.Caroline, I shall not listen to his objections. Hie

I


284                    DOLORES.
owes us a reparation for his past offences and my proposal will
give him a good opportunity of showing the earnestness and
sincerity of his professions. There he comes, I may as well broach
the subject to him at once. Richard we have been talking about
you. We think it time for you to choose'a calling. What do you
think of a mariner's profession?"
"I think I should like it well enough. I have failed in a course
of my own and resolved to be this time guided by your judgment.
If you think a sailor's life calculated to improve me, I have no
objection in adopting it."
"That's spoken like a man, Richard. I do indeed consider a
sailor's calling adapted to your nature. But in what branch
would you like to serve? Shall I procure for you a cadetship at
Annapolis, or would you rather devote yourself to mercantile pur-
suits and after due apprenticeship enter the captaincy of a merch-
ant vessel?"
"I think the latter more desirable, father. A stay at Annapolis
might be fraught with new temptations and shake my good reso-
lutions. They have hardly rooted deep enough to stand much
shaking. Moreover I do not think, that I'll ever be much of a
scholar and so the merchant man will be the proper place for me."
"There is sense in what you say 1ichard, and I shall do accord-
ing to your wishes. There is a friend of mine, a captain Tarfield
ready to put to sea in a new vessel, the "Swallow" and I think I
can manage to secure a berth for you on board of it. Your moth-
er can meanwhile superintend your outfit; for if we fail ingetting
you on board the swallow, there will be hundred other chances. I
shall write to Tarfield without delay."
Thus measures were taken at the mansion to send the younger
generation away from home, to prepare them for a later struggle
with the world. Mr. Fox was very glad ththswfa      ae
the lead in regard to the education of the girls. Since Dolores'
accession to a rich inheritance, he had more than ever felt his res-
ponsibility and the necessity of giving her a thorough education.
Mr. Goodman had done his full duty ; but in modern languages,
in music and the lighter arts, which at once adorn and enrich our
life, he was unable to do anything for them. Mr. Fox did not as
yet feel justified to divulge to his wife the new circumstances of

DOLORES.                       285
their cousin and foster-daughter, therefore his satisfaction at her
proposal.
A similar process of fermentation took place at the cottage at
the same time. Charles had always had a great taste for the arts
and sciences and now, when fortune had smiled on his family and
put sufficient means at his disposal, his former love for them not
only revived, but became irresistable. He had not been bak a
month, when he announced his desire to visit some institution of
learning and under able instructors go through a regular course
of study. Of course lie found no resistance. His parents were
so accustomed to consider the wishes of the high-minded, intel-
ligent youth as binding, that they would not even have dreamed
of refusing their sanction to so commendable a resolution. But,
while the course of Charles was clearly marked out and rather a
source of pleasure than trouble, the future of the younger brother
often filled the parents' heart with apprehension. He showed no
predilection for either mental or manual labor and the drudgery
of mercantile pursuits was extremely distasteful to this fastidi-
ous youth. His parents were at a loss how to proceed with him,
when the destination of Richard at once threw light on their per-
plexity. The ocean! Yes the ocean! That is a wide berth for
all, that cannot prosper on the land. If they cannot make their
way amongst their fellow-beings, put them on the ocean-there
they are out of the *ay. This sounds like irony, but what is irony
except truth somewhat sharply drawn? The ocean is the great
school for good-for-nothings, where no temptation entices them
back to their ways of folly. This is at best. a negative preventa-
tive but it is better than none at all and in battling with winds
and waves many a youth has regained that healthy tone of mind
'n   y, that moral sensitiveness, which grieving parents had
already given up for lost.
Yes, Henry must go to sea. He must, if possible become a
shipmate of Richard. They will find a mutual consolation in
their company, when on the first rough contact with'the elements
their heart threatens to sink within them.
A feeble monitor warns against this arangement, demonstrating
that the boys will not only be a support to one another in the-
hours of trouble but also a weight in the wrong scale inthe hour


286                    DOLORES.
of temptation. They are not always s on the sea; th port is near-
ing with all its low enjoyments and the voice of conscience which
might have been listened to by each one singly may become
drowned by the noisy encouragement they give to one another.
This voice, so weak, so feeble, is lost sight of in so many con-
siderations of greater moment.
The boys like the arrangement, and when a letter from Mr.
Tarfiekr announces his readiness to receive both of them in the
capacity of ordinary members of his crew, the bitter pill of humi-
liation is very much sweetened by the thought, that they.can
weather the roughness of the trial in each other's company.
Busy scenes are now the order of the day. Trunks are bought
and packed, two of them with the infinite number of items con-
stituting a lady's wardrobe; two others with the rough and strong
materials used for a sailor's suit and the last one with the neat
but plain garments adapted to a student's character.
The scene of packing is followed by the more noisy one of
shaking hands and giving kisses and shedding tears and indulg-
ing in parting salutations in general. Then a sudden stillness
. follows, falling heavily upon the bereaved parents. Foxville
seems dead to them, the streets deserted. Their meals taste so
insipid and, the coffee has lost its flavor. Only by degree they
reconcile themselves to their solitary lot, and then lacking other
points of attraction and entertainment are more closely drawn
towards each other. How often do we notice a doting tenderness
in old married people to one another, which dates frpm the time
when the nestling made the first trial of its wings and perching
on another tree began to push affairs on his or her own account.
Besides missing his children in the house, Mr. Fox felt as if by
losing Charles from the factory, he had lost his right hand. True
Mr. Fuchs assisted him with all his strength and ability; but Mr.
Fuchs wasn't Charles, and could not replace him. The matter
would have been worse, if Charles had not in the queerest man-
ner procured a substitute just a few days before leaving. One
morning on calling at the postoffice, he had received a very odd
epistle, which ran as follows.

I)OLORES.

Charles Fuchs, Esq.

287
Boston, Nov. 25th 1858.

Dear Sir!,
Since meeting you the other dayi haven'thsatis-
faction. It is no wonder  r3 Ihve' had a moment of satis-
fato., ti n    oder. You are the first man I eversaan
when a fellow has once tasted the subst     I   ver saw and
to be contented agoanet     hesusance, he is not very likely
to becoentdagi with the shadow. I am not satisfied
am tired of treading the boards, that are    sat   ifye
boldi  bt in represent nothing but a concentrated em-
bibemn ofmeanness, trickiness and intrigues. Shall I, a sens-
ible man make a fool of myself; to mafosfela        fteys
might be sensible? No Sir, I am disguste  with theelos isy
ery of the stage: and wishing the legions o my oerglorious mis-
a pce, w e co   ata premium, I have a constant, raving to
escape to the man, that promised to be my friend intuh.Tl
me honestly: have you in or about your rend in truth. Tell
howe small, a situation, however humble, where a Bnrlesque
den, nor a drone  i  Uderstand me, I do not want to be a'bur-
denradoe          I want to work and by working, ana
honest penny. If you have such an opening;y  ifing, earn an
place, you feel inclined to execute whatpeou pifsm the second
write a few lines andha you promised in words
es and you will in a hurry see      Yours    '
CHARLES BURLESQUE,
Charles laughed. The letter amused him; but it als
him. The best of us are prone to be pleased to see ots  eter-
tain a good opinion of us, and Charles did not cl  e etter,
than the best. He mused a little and then former toluton.
He had'liked the frankness of the actor and was inclined to go
on first impressions. He did not know the man at' all be felt
assured that whatever his other failings might be h
be deceitful. Everything else might be tolerated and  ded
and Charles began to wonder, whether Mr. Burlesque would not
answer to act in a measure as his substitute. The actor was of
a cheerful disposition and might exercise a healthful influence on
Mr. Fox. Taking it all together the, 'pro's" outweighed the
"contra's" and Charles had no sooner come to this conclusion,
than he went to Mr. Fox, to gain hi opinion and consent.. Mr.
Fon waganot frea from the prejudice which many worthy men have
coeivedigate cors and a dubious shaking of his head at the
beginning of' the communication portended little good for our
Young friend's intentions. But Charles  as n  eiv  discour
aged. H    ea   oda    the actor's portrait in vivid color  n


_U

288

DOLORES.

after finishing, had the satisfaction of seeing his fatherly friend
embrace a different view..
"The fellow by assisting us in finding the track of Richard,
has put us under obligations" he said, "and what you tell me of
his character. has rather pleased me. Therefore, if you have. set
your heart on making the experiment, I may as well accord my
sanction."
So Charles sat down to answer the letter and on return of mail
Mr. Burlesque received the summons to pack up his baggage and
star t for Maine. "Leave the cravats that knew yon in the role of
princes, behind in Boston and-if possible-even the recollections
of those roles. You will find a very quiet corner and if you can-
not spent a mouth without seeing a strange face, you better stay
where you are."
Mr. Burlesque thought he could and so he cai1e. He was
kindly received by Charles and Mr. Fox and introduced into the
families of the cottage and the mansion. After he had recovered
from the fatigues of his trip he was at once imitated in the duties
of his new office and seemed to like it well enough. Only one
thing created his dissatisfaction, namely the early departure of
his new friend.
.tit is too bad !" he said. "After hunting and finding at last a
real friend, I must experience the grief, of parting from hun.
That minds me of the dying king, whose life could only be saved
by his wearing the shirt of a man of perfect happiness; the mes-
sengers, after scouring the whole kingdom, finally found but one
happy man and he possessed no shirt. The king died and so my
friend, will my contentment die, ou your departure."
Charles consoled him as best he could, promising numerous let-
ters and when the day of parting came, he left Mr. Burlesque n
a comfortable state of mind. Charles went by way of Boston,
and on his arrival at that city disposed of the balance of his dia-
monds to Messrs. Ruby and Brillant and of his doubloons to
other parties.
The money thus realized he invested in equal shares for te
benefit of his father and Dolores with the assistance o a rl
able broker, to whom Mr. Fox had given him a letter of in-
troduction. A dozen of the finest jeel &amp; however he retained for
Dolores leaving them with Messrs. Ruby &amp; Co. with directiofls

DOLORES.
of working them into a handsome s                      2
attededto  e cnst d  ' me set of jewels. His business
attended to, he continued his journey to the university, where he
interpret  surrender himself to an earnest -course of study, to
intrri~p hi i whchwould hardly be.:fair for terae   n
myself. Take care for   h         e          the reader and
him, oh muses!.
CHAPTER XXX.
"  GLIMpSES FROM A DIAR~Y.                    .
' . .  .. A t  sch ool ' M  sesca n oaiy l
LucyAt Lucool! bke can hardly realize'it and while I look at
Lucy, Lucy looks back   rid neither of us is any wiser for the look.
A props, Lucy has g"eatly changed; sineny meseefor iev.
gincyhermothr'seickme see=--y es ever
since her mother's sickness. She formerly so gentle and so lov-
ing, seems to grow colder every day. Is it only to me? I hardly
kbout alI ive tried my-best, to thaw the ice around her heart
course inds vai.e denies my assertion ota change and that of
course ends the matter.  It pains me though; for at one time
whe evrybdyin the house had turned against meLc   ln
sided with her good fathueahadtured gaist      e, Lucy alone
eared up man a        th       y er gentle even tenderness
where uphersyl gloomy hour for the orphan stranger. ow-
whe the others love me, Lucy withdraws her affection and why?
her motheu'sels e.   an she not pardon me for sharing now
get her mother s erro? as she not even by this time learned to for-
I sheothscrror?    I hardly know, to which of these reasons
But howeve the m   cange--perhaps they operate in union.
But however this may be, I think I have learned a lesson, a pain-
fulonebuthey onsay experience has to be dearly bought and I
cannot expect to form an exception. What I have learned is thi':
Aete     friipos ton is not always the evidence of afeeling
quakesand Tefrig  zone, they.say, is still and cold and for earth-:
hae oand eruptions of volcanos and sweeping hurricanes yhu
haou vstetdps       But gentle natures, one might thin14
od not be capable of intense hatred either. I hardly know; it,
temseome that they can be very chilling in their touch: a low
e     at     n more readily be depressed to icy coldness, than
h   At school. We have been here a week 'and    ssegin to lern

I


29                     DOLORES.1
in this new sphere of mine. On the whole I like it, as it promises
food for my mind. True Mr. Goodman did not let me starve at
home ; but his dishes sometimes were just a shade too heavy for
me, creating as it were a mental dyspepsia. It takes a good
stomach to digest his Greek and Latin and trigonometry and cal-
culus and I am glad to interperse my meals with lighter dishes. I
am studying French now, and by studying I mean studying.
Charles is going to learn the same language and we have agreed
upon a race. I should lie so much to beat him but I fear I can-
not do it. He has a powerful mind, I see that more distinctly
every day, because I have now the means 'of comparison. I am
sorry to say it- but it is true, nevertheless-there is much little-
ness around me, littleness of mind and ltttleness of soul. I cn-"
notray, that Iglike-.these:girls very much, and I- fear, that I shall
not form many friendships either. I read so much about school-
mate's intimacies and ardent friendships dating from school and
continuing through life; but I have thus far, seen very little of
the kind. Perhaps it is my own fault; perhaps I lack the neces-
sary sympathy and cannot become enthusiastic for the subjects
which interest the others. They are fond of dress and jewels-
I do not care about either: they fall in love with every mustache
and I find nothing interesting either in the mustaches or their
owners. They move in superlatives and exhausting their vocabu-
lary on commonplace affairs, are lacking language to enter' into
topics of a higher nature. I do not understand them, or rather
they pretend, that I am a closed book to them. I think they do
dislike me and a would-be-friend and gossip informed me of the
reason. I want to be better and wiser, they allege, according to
the say so of this friend and such an unpardonable presumption
connot be tolerated. Alas! God knows, that I have no such feel-
ings. I'll try to be a little more sociable and enter into-the spirit
of their conversation, although it will be uphill work, I know.
In fact I have been spoiled at home. The intercourse with Charles
and Mr. Goodman and Sarah--yes Miss Sarah too and all the
other friends-I mean the intercourse with them has spoiled
me They are real men and women and here I feel as if they were
ti  all of them and blaming me for giving myself as nature
mae me. Well, it is unfortunate, that I can take refuge to other
friends.. My books can comfort me and so can the grand view of

DOLORES.                        291
nature from my window.. It is winter now; but even in death
nature has understood how to maintain its grandeur. Ho  e't
thishbeautiful expause -of hill and dale and lake and forest ook
iner a  clors of spring and the burning gorgeous one of sum-
mhr and fall. I anticipate much pleasure from the ever ch
aracter of this landscape..... . .
....I am amused at my French professor and cannot hel lgh
ng at his odd language and movements. He is the very  '
of a Frenchman, at least as I imagine from the numerous descrip-
tions I have read. Monsieur Parbleu is a man of small stature;
his dress, his gait, his bow, his "tournure"--as he calls it are pr-
fect and he always appears to me as if on coming to school h
ad stepped from an etui, a case as it were and on  i
could do nothing else but return toit.--I show great defee to
the man, because I feel it and-either from this reason or because
I study my lessons he seems to have formed a similar regard for
me. According to his assertions, I must surely be th  eight
wonder of the world. Monsieur Parbleu has-never in hi  x
peeriaince found such ain aibell scholaire as Miss Doloraise upon-
honnaire, he nevaire fiattairs. -I take good care not to tell him
the reason of my efforts; it does a person good to be consid
something; because it urges them, to be something  M
teachers are also pleased .&amp;ith my progress; at least th  s oe
considering my application I am inclined to believe thes
My .instructor in Music is a German, a good man too I am em
lined to believe; but the very Opposite to Monsieur Parbl
lie isn't at all tidy in his dress,-all geniuses are slovenly the
say and Herr Spreitzfinger is on all sides allowed to be a member
o that chosen band. He smokes a detestable ciga     -   er
presence, to be sure, but the perfume 9f tobacco  d e  to h
clothes, becomes the tell tale of his besetting weakness.
wears a loose cravat and turned collars which are more resark-
able for size than cleanness. His long black hair hangs erk-
sheveled masses round his head, forming, as I hear, anoth  trik-
ing evidence of its Owner's superior organisation  Mr. Srestk-
inger' coatsleeves are of an unaccountable shortness, the arm
protruding almost to the elbow and however favorable that may
be ,to the free manipulation of his hands and fingers ithatimay
l  him grace nor elegance.

(


292                    DOLORES.
In short, my music-teacher is anything but a counterpart to the
fashionable Monsieur Parbleu and the girls always titter, when
he makes his appearance. I however am inclined to forgive is
shortcomings for the sake of the'pleasure I derive from his per-
formance on the piano. In fact, when he plays, I'don't see either
collar or coatsleeves; my sight becomes a secondary matter and
the ear steps into the first place. I know but little about music,
but I cannot help thinking, that the professor really is something
of a genius. The other girls don't like his music; they always
league him about polkas and schottisches and the like and Mr.
Spreitz finger don't like it. The other day I was present when
he replied to such a request:
"Ladies, you petter puy a krind-organ, tat plays tances better
tan I can to it."
The "Ladies" highly resented the idea, but I felt gratified and
ever since I have vouchsafed the professor an increased amount
of respect. A real artist ought to elevate the public to his stan-
ard, not lower himself to theirs. He plays fantasies of the clas-
sic school for me; sometimes also variations of his own and I de-
rive a vague kind of pleasure from hearing them. I do not un-
derstand that music yet, why should I deny it? but I hope I soon
shall-The pleasure, it gives me now, is about the same as if I
heard an orator in a language, of which I merely knew the rudi-
ments. I know the text, but cannot follow the development of
the arguments. Yet I hear the speaker's sonorous voice, I see
the graceful sweep of his accompanying gestures; I look into his
soul-lit features and have a mysterious anticipation of the sublim-
ity of the thoughts he is pronouncing.
Mr. Spreitzfinger begins to notice me. I am now through the
drudgery of the A. B. C. of music and he sometimes looks at me,
as if he wanted to look to the bottom of my soul and see, what
is within me. This morning after my lesson, he threw back his
long hair with a jerk; then wringing his bony fingers to make
them crack in a dozen places, he said:.ei
"Miss Tolores, you to remarkably vell. You have te material
for a real artist. If you go on as on have commencet, I shall
make someting out of you."
"Are you in earnest, Sir?" I inquired. "I despise flattery."
"You to?" he asked, casting a queer look at me; "te other ladies

DOLORES.                        29,
ntot. Put I to not flatter you, Miss Tolores I sait te trut and
notink, put te tint."
"Then Sir, I shah double my efforts. I dislike nothing more
than indifferent  jumping on the instrument. Rather than be
an indifferent player, I would be none at all."
Then the professor made a queer remark.
"Ko on, matam, at all events." he said-; "you have a soul t
others haven't; what can tey expect to learn without a soul?'
His tone was extremely sarcastic; but to me he sha
ference than ever. This afternoon I met him in the a  and
s hat and greeted me with a respect, as if I had been a
prin ess.sSome of the girls saw it and teased me about it. e
of th   said :ab
"Lo6 out Dolores, the professor is -
you."                              going to fall in love with
I real       they envied me this distinction, for as a enera
thing the p -ofessor shoots past us in atinrio, at es agenea
ing us a 6 descending nod. So every trifle becomes vouceaf
envy and jaos and Idrelvry til becomes a source of
senvx n jealousyan I do really begin to be ashaeofm
sex since my boarding school experience. If women all over the
world betray the littleness cropping out here at every corner, it
is no wonder, that the strohger sex  ows he re  pect forer
rigts . . ..       g   exshows so little respect for our
rights ,.......
a  n . . Mrs. Strictly, our principal is as perfect in her ways,
aMonsieur Parbleu in his. She always reid'eoftefg
ures exposed in the show windowsfor  eis   m of  tes
only difference is that M  S       the display of dress ; the
faultless toilet form but    strictly        merely display -a
pfultestl   for, bt also the mental and moral qualities of a
perfect lady. This would be all well enough, if thc qualities were
of defection  Sh exhibition. Mrs. Strictly is a living manual
of     noic. She seems to say all the time: Look at me young
ladies; notice my tournure: this is h way tobwadthsi   h
way to smile an  th''e way to bow and this is the
talk and do te  this is the way to rise and sit and walkand*
talk an do te tho usand things that make a lady "co.nme ilfont, ,
ahen on our w      r -kss sa penny to a beggar, her motion
says: This is the way to do it. When. she admires a view, she
seems to' say: now notice my tiessions! She is modest for
im~tio  an piustoofortha mate; for even in church. she

_..


DOLORES.

seems to say: This way, young ladies and benefit by the chance
of seeing a model woman kneel and worship.
Mr. Strictly is a mere cipher in the establishment. He is a tall
portly and rather handsome man but yet he is nothing but a ci-
pher. He represents the outside dignity of the school, like the
gaudy sign above a drygoods store or the carriages behind the
hearse. Besides this he keeps the books and buys the victuals
and on examinations and exhibitions, builds the stage and shifts
the scenes and pulls the wires and prompts the performers. I
must laugh, when I thinkoof him.' Not that I didn't like him-I
do like him well enough, just as you like a second fiddle, that.
adds the charm of harmony to the beauties of the air. Mrs.
Strictly sings the airs, or-if ydu prefer it--she putt them on.
The worthy pair reminds me of a droll story, that Charles told
me oce.A friend of his examining the City of Liverpool, no-
ticed a cobbler and his wife, who had established their shop on
the sidewalk of the street and assisted one another in their work,
Ae by mending she by recommending. Every once in a while the
worthy pair would rise and, parting, take separate sides of the
street. Then strutting down street with a dignified composure
they would proclaim this dialogue.
She. "My husband mends boots and shoes!"
He (in deep basso) I am the man to do it.
She. My husband etc. etc. ad infini'um.
In our seminary the case lies just reversed. She mends the ig-
norance and tattered manners of the pupils and he proclaims the
fact to all the world and adjacent counties. Oh dear me! if she
knew in what disrespectful terms I speak-about her to my diary.
But then a person must have one confidential friend. The other
girls gossip amongst themselves--I gossip to my diary.........
A letter from Charlie! That is always a feast, a holiday.
He writes in German, for fear he says, that I will forget that lan-
guage over my French, unless he keeps me in practice. I forget
German? Oh indeed! there is little danger of that. I like French
well enough in its way; you can express yourself se politely, sa
 it is the language for bon mots and sparkling wit-
but with German it can stand no comparison. To it it is what
the graceful birch is .to the, towering majestic oak. It waves
prettily in the breath, of the wind, and its bark shines with a

294

?

DOLORES.

wheiteis ltr but give me the oak for sublimity. 'The birds find
shelter in its branches and the weary wanderer in its shade. Just
as deeply as the oak sends its roots into the ground, the German
languagersinks within our hearts, embracing it, creeping through
it and pervading it in such a way, as to make any effort, to bear
it out, extremely idle. No Charles, I shall not forget my German
S    l a         forget you. Your letters do me good. We
have here the climate of California, long and uninterrupted drouths
and if it was not for an occasional fertilizing shower from you or
home in shape of a letter, my heart would -dry up and only my
brain ex and at its expense. Lucy neither loves me any. more,
nor allows me to love her. Indeed I have ceased all efforts in that
direction; for love is a mutual relation, is like the working of two
opposite poles in magnetism. Lucy used to be the negative and
I the positive and we agreed admirably. Now she hfs turned
positive and I cannot change. Perhaps by growing negative, by
playing  e role of the ivy climbing up the stronger tree, I might
d. B      Iam no ivy, I do-not like to creep and twist and
wind. I am very positive, too positive I sometimes think....
To day I spoke to my music-teacher for the firs
German. I shall nee    gmsctahrfitefrt. time in
Geran.I sallnever forget the amazement and subsequent
pleasure he showed on that occasion. It was in consequence of
an involuntary outburst of delight in listening toone of Beet-
hoven's sonatas, which the professor   for m
elamtio: "h! einGot p  sorplayed fo  e, that the ex-
clamation: "Oh! mein Gott, wie schoen!" escaped me. No sooner
shad the words been uttered, than I laid my hands upon my lips,
as if to catch back the treacherous words. But poit  m  late
Mr.Spritzing'r rok of inthes wr s  Bu itwas too late.
Mr. Spreitzfinger broke of in the middle of the chord and turn-
ing abruptly on his stool, gazed at me in undisguis  astonish-
ment.
"Sie sprechen deutsch?" he said sharply; "you speak Jerman
an tiftt knowme? Tat wasn't right Miss Tolores, inteet it vasn't.
If~~ ~~ Ihtkontayospoke Jermnan I shoult have taught you
in my native tongue ant you vonlt have shnt haven fastr t
After thatehevewantedetotk
you tit."
After that he wanted to know, where I had learned it and led
to speak of one th   and another, until I had given him a
tolerably complete picture -T-of Foxvile and my frends there. -I
don't know, why I did it and I think I as a liengr  i
.n.         was a little "angry with  °

295


-t

myself for doing it, but somehow it went so natural and Mr.
Spreitzfinger appeared so much more to his advantage in his na-
tiye tongue, which he speaks with a good accent, that one word
aye the other, and the story was out before I knew it. The pro-
fessor however made returns for my confidence, giving me some
rough sketches of his life. Poor man! the uncouth gestures of
his body,. and his slovenly habits have prevented him from mak-
ing a mark in life. He don't know it himself; but it is neverthe
less true. I see it from his sketches. His.talents were overlooked
and his shortcomings noticed. Oh ye artists! take warning from
poor Mr. Spreitzfinger and take to clean collars and coatsleeves
which protect your elbows. My teacher is an artist; I know
enough of music, to see that now-but his collars and imperfect
coatsleeves have driven him from concert-halls into the semin-
ary of a little country: town. Even here they injure him for I
have caught several glances of Mrs Strictly, which forbode him
little good. If he wasn't so successful a teacher, he would have
been dismissed long before this. But he makes very small pre-
tensions-that is another reason for our principal to retain him.-
Mr. Spreitzfinger says, I begin to play tolerably well. . He
praises my touch mnd expression. No wonder however!     He
-makes me practice three hours a day and if that is not calculated
to advance one's skill, I do not know what will. He thinks dif-
f&amp;rently. He says he knew people who praticed four hours and
could never succeed in playing the plainest air. Yesterday he
said in German:
"Miss Dolores, you have such a silvery laugh, you must surely
have a good voice: will you have the kindness to sing the scale
for me?.'
I saw no reason to refuse him and commenced with c, he sec-
onding my voice with the corresponding chords. I wasn't des-
thed however to reach the octave, for even before we were half
through, he jumped from his stool with a vehemence that fright-
ened me and walking through the room with his biggest .strides,
exclaimed:
"This voice! oh what a voice! and L did know nothing. about
it! Six months, six precious months gone and lost! It is  . sin,
a perfect shame. What, if I hadn't by chance tumbled over this
precious voice! It might have remained untrained, lost to her-

self and the world forever! But thank Gdd, it is time yet. Miss
Dolores, I dont ask you, to take singing lessons: you must, you
.absolutely must.',".odyou
S    excitement was so ludicrous, that I could not help laughing,
You may laugh as muclh as you please," he said, waving his
hand, and speaking german, which language has now become t
exclusive medium between us. "You may laugh. on condition
that you let me have my way. The man, who found the Koh ior
and he that ground it to its present brilliancy, can not be prouder
Qf their success than I shall be, when this nig a
first charms the ears of thousands."                 aine
What could I do in the face of such enthusiasm?' I had to
yield and now I practice singing as well as playino-
....To-day I received a costly present. It seems thatCarl
retaied some diamonds of uncle Eberhardt's and caused the
to be set in Boston in a very tasty manner. Now they are lim
in my hand and I hardly know, what I value more the gift or
id letter that accompanies it. "Dol" he writes---ideed I fear
the world is spoiling him, for he begins to latter-"Dol I beg
you to accept.from me these jewels. They are a fitting  embl
Of :your purity. The gold in which they are set, does no inreem
their value; but it is necessary, to show them to advantage ase
bring to light the brilliancy of their lustre. It is your history
over again Dolores. Mrs. Strictly.is the artist, who now is put-
ting you into a proper setting. She cuts and grinds and polishes
nd when she is done,, she will boast of her work and forget that
only the setting is hers and nothing else and that the beaut and
the sparkling, fire of the precious jewel were there before she
"touched it. With every other girl I should be afraid of suci
boardingschool work; but you cannot be spoiled-I know that of
old, because we tried it pretty hard at home  Th
and add thei'e, to make a flaw is entirely impossibleible .new beau-
ties must necessarily spring up everywhere under thcir touch."
leThats the way he writes and I am going to give him a good
turg about in my reply.- .g
But what shall I do with these stones? I cannot wear them
here--they are too costly. I should raise such a mountain of
envy amongst the girls, that an avalanche might break lose and
Suffocate me. But without joking, I do not want to appear better

_.                     v     ,_                    '             -        'ms s='''"-
i M      1  R       , ai

DOLL RE S.

296

DOLORES.

297


298

DOLORES.

or more highly favored than Lucy. It is enough to think, that
she treats me with so much coldness-I shall do nothing on my
part to widen the cleft between us.
Vacation is over and we are back in our school, ready to
plunge once more into the sea of learning. Strange! I was more
loath to leave my, dear home this time than the first time On the
first occasion I didn't know any better. The charm of novelty
helped me over the pain of parting. Ba' now I do know. Only
"n4au I fully understand the powerful charm and the melancholy
sweetness of the old song: home,'sweet home! It isn't the air
that captivates 'me,-though its gentle sadness is calculated to
bring home the sentiments of the words with double force. I do
not know,--why this air always pursues me waking and dreaming.
I cannot account for it on the great appreciation .of my' home
alone : a secret inward power drives'it to my lips a voice from the
spirit-land, an echo from the past. Where does it come from, why
does it strike me so powerfully?.....
.There is one more reason, why I hated to leave Foxville
worse than the first time. Charles was to be home too on vasa-
tion; but unfortunately our terms did not coincide and all we could
exact from him, was a promise, to do his best to meet us. I sup-.
pose he did his best; but we did not see him. We lingered day
after day, until Lucy refused to prolong our stay. Our school
would open she said and she would not like to lose any recitations.
Her parents praised her resolution and I?-of course I couldn't be-
- tray my rehuctance and its cause. Lucy knew it; that I instinc-
tively perceived. But no it was the love of study, her sense of
order and of duty, which gave birth to her desire for a return to
school.' I have really to conquer a disposition of feeling a bitter-
ness against the girl. She begins to make the same impression
upon me, with her even coldness; as a frog or other amphibiouni
would in consequence of their cold slippery skin. If -I am wrong,
if I wrong her-I cannot help it. I do my best, to force myself
- to friendly feelings towards my parent's daughter, but I-must now
repeat, what I said once before: Love cannot be forced and like
the plant in subterranean vaults creeps to the warm and genial
light..
I have committed another offence against my school-mates
in venturing to compete for and win the first prize at the exami-

DOLORES.-2
nation preceding the close of school. This is an old affair pow,
but on looking over my diary I find, that I neglected to record j$
Not that I place a very great value on the occurrence; but it would
be just as foolish, to leave it off these pages on account of a false
shame, than to proclaim it with a vain pride to the four, points of
the compass. [ chronicle events on these leaves such as they are
not as they ought to be and if the statement of any triumphs is
calculated to give offence, I have the comfort of feeling sure that
no eyes but mine will ever see it.  - ''
likei?"What do you think of Mr. Burlesque? and how do you
like him?' was a question in a letter from Charlie, that lies before
me. What I think of him? Well, he is a clever fellow with a
gay disposition, rather too gay for me though. I like originality
t Io not like farces. Over-drawn  characters become carica-
tures and those I could never admire. Moreover Mr. Burlesque
has driven his vehicle of life through "thick and thin" as they
say in German and in consequence the mire has pattered all over
him. I feel he is not so pure, as I should like a friend to be. To
me he has never over stepped the bounds of decorum but I thought
he Came as close to the margin as was possible. May be the sin-
pl ife in Foxyille will improve him; indeed I hope it will, for
ough my judgment can not exactly bestow the character of per-
fectkon the man, my sympathy is with him. I like him well enough
I like his constant efforts to cheer and help my dear papa; I like
his struggle to forget the gay pleasures of his city life and learn
proper appreciation of the charms of the country.  Bit
most of all I like :the enthusiastic love, with which' he speaks of
Ckarhe. He never tired of that topic and somehow I never tired
listen to him and so it happened that we had many and long-
chats together. He says, that Charlie is the only man he ever saw
and I subscribe to it. Dear me! when I compare him with the-
striplings on whom our girls here dote and about whom they rave,
the difference appears so great, that I lack a measure to define it.
Mr. Burlesque saw him but once and that sufficed to bind him
heart and soul;.now if he loves him so much from one short in-
terview, what can those do, that shared his leisure and his work.
his joys, his sorrows and his aspirations. Yesterday I took Web-
ster's dictionary to look for the definition of the word "ido" It

i      ?w:_   ate'


300  '                  DOLORES.
means an image to be worshipped as a God.- Now the Bible calls
the worshippers of idols heathens-I fear,I am a heathen.....
To day, when I came to my room, I thought Lucy looked
rather nervous, contrary to her habits. She soon invented a pre-
tence to leave me and when I took out my diary, I thought I no-
ticed a confusion in the writing desk, that is not, usual. Should
she have had the. meanness to pry into those papers? The box
was locked, but these common locks are easily forced. It would
be too bad indeed! But no, I shall not think it! I  all not
condemn her on such slight suspicion. .But I shall be m  cau-
tious and put the diary at a place hereafter, where prying eyes
and skillful fingers will try in vain, to penetrate to it......-
. Two years are gone and after the expiration of another I
shall be through with my course of study. It makes me glad and
sorry at the same time, to think of it. Sorry because the calm
happy days of school life will then be over, never to return; happy,
because then I shall be able to enjoy the company of my friends
at home, without the fear of early parting. What does a short
vacation amount to? Every day is spoiled and embittered by the
thought, that the one is drawing near, which will surely snatched
us from our home. Charles expects to be through aout th
same time and if I am to trust his litters, he is about as anxious
and impatient to meet me, as I him. Is it not strange, that two
full years have passed, without bringing us face to face? Daring
my two vacations he could not leave the college and when his va-
cation came around and he made a trip up this way, to take me
by surprise, I was absent on an excursion to the mountains with
a pleasure-party from our seminary. We were absent a whole
week and I did enjoy myself well enough, but when I got home
and found his note and nothing but his note, in which he told me
his sorrow on account of missing me, I felt as if I could despair
and sat down to a good crying spell, such as I have not had for
years. Now I shall have to wait another year, before I can ex-
pect to see him. Dear me! how many things we shall then have
to say to one another! How many stores we shall have to tell;
how many questions to ask and to reply to; how many puzzles
and problems of life and death to propose and solve ; how many
imaginary trips to subterranean caves and deepest bowels of the
earth; to make to mountain pcaks and to the airy realms above,;

DOLORES.                       301
even up to moons and planets and light dispersing suns. Indeed
,I do not see, how we shall everaget through, unless thehour so
night shrink to a minihum and the days expand to their double
length. This I am afraid, will never happen. On the  t
the hours spent in his company will share the common fate of
happy hours-their transientness.......
....My diary is much neglected now. The session draws to-
wards its close and I mean to compete for the first honor. Know
Charlie does and it gives me a: sweet satisfaction to share his
risk; but it will give me sweeter yet, te share his triumph.  My
triumph however will not be very great. Three years are a long
race, and most of our students are out of breath by this time.
There are a few only of more tenacious purpose, than the crowd,
who seem inclined to dispute my victory. Besides there are some
new students, clever girls, who scorn to yield the palm with
an effort. So the contest is not without a certain interest and
though Iam far from feeling the feverish excitement of the first
year, yet I feel the necessity of close application to make-success
secure. Farewell then thou friend of my lonely hours, only at
rare intervals will I, my diary! be enabled to visit thee. Farewell!
-.-..A letter from Charlie! Such extraordinary events form an
exception from the general rule. I must spare the time to chron-
icle it in the pages of my diary; especially since it is very likely
the last letter I'll get from him. One more week and 11l have
ceased to be the happy schoolgirl to enter into a state not less
laborious and even more responsible. One more week to prepare
for the contest! I ought to concentrate my thoughts upon my
studies, bnt I cannot do it. However much I struggle toretain
them here they constantly fly to my native home, and to'the dear
dear faces, I shall there meet again. There is a picture of Char-
lie inthe letter, a splendid photograph. He wears a moustache
now and handsome whiskers and I was so much engaged with
looking at the picture, that I didn't notice how one of the girs
came up behind and gazing over my shoulders, saw the picture.
I started like a thief detected in the act of stealing when she
clapped her hands and with a merry laugh exclaimed:
"A man! a man! Our Lady Perfect has the picture of a man!
He is handsome tho' and I'll keep mum, if you will on the spot
confess, who he is and whether you love him very much ?"


11

3O2

)OLORES.

I felt a burning in my face-of indignation I think it was, at
her indiscretion. Without deigning to answer a word to her ques-
tion, I turned abruptly and soht my chamber. There however
her question haunts me all th time: Do I love him? No I love
him not. If Webster is Correct I worship him and worship is no
love. Worship you can but idols. I worship the idol of my
soul and that is idolatry ........
Triumph! triumph! the palm is mine! The victory is won
It as not edeily won however and I value the prize just in pro-
portion. And he? Oh I have not the slightest doubt, that he
too conquered-all the rest.  It was my thought of him, that gave
me strength and can I doubt that he too thought of me? Doubt?
fearfulword, which now for the first time rises in my mind. Doubt !
If he had not learned to think of me, as I of him-what would
the future be? A blank, for I love him, love him dearly, worship
him   Why should I hide it from -myself? Alas I couldn't; for
this feeling has become so interwoven with my nature, that to ig-
nore it would be, not to exist. They write so much of love sleep-
ing in our hearts and bursting into consciousness with a sudden
start-well, perhaps they are right. I never knew how much I
loved him until on my return from the mountain trip I learned
that he had been here to see me. In the copious tears tien flowing
rom my eyes love took root and grew until it filled my heart and
 all the world. After that beauty received its merits but from
racing him.. Intelligence from shining through his eyes. Vir-
tue became of value since he cherished its pursuit and vice was
shunned because he shunned it.......
--Doubt! horrid word. How could I ever bear to live without
a kindred feeling in his bosom?
.A change has come over me. I now understand superla-
tives and-what is more-I use them. : To-morrow we shall go
home! I am the happiest creature on the globe. Time creeps
most terribly slowly for me and I should be infinitely obliged to
Morpheus, God of Dreams, if he could plunge me into oblivion,
until the moment of departure has arrived.

DOLORES.

CHAPTER XXYI.
HOME AGAiN.
Those were stirring, excited times in the two families of Fox-
vile, when the girls came home. Theirs was not the only arrival
for on the preceding day Richard and Henry had suddenly re-
turned from Portsmouth, were their vessel was to undergo
thorough repairs. They had leave of absence for the whole
winter and were received with a welcome doubly hearty, as they
bore letters from Captain Tarfield which gave them a pretty good
character. True, neither of them had as yet advanced much in
their profession as they had not succeeded in rising above the
rank of common sailors; but that was only of secondary import-
ance. If their new life had only improved their morals and made
them more firmer in principle, the balance could easily be borne.
A few more voyages would surely perfect them in the art of navi
gation and once fit to command a vessel, the means of Mr- Fox
would without much trouble secure Richard a captaincy with
Henry for his lieutenant.
Charles was now the only one wanting to make, the family circle
complete. His session closed a little later and they could hardl
expect him before another week. But though this circumstance
somewhat damped the spirits of Dolores, the young men were
gay and lively, and made the mansion and' the cottage ring with
eir laughter and their stories. They had been in most of the
countries of Europe and of course could relate many things that
weretether new to the others or nevertheless listened to with in-
terest because coming from the lips of eyewitnesses.
Lucy was the one least excited. She greeted her brother as if
he had been absent three weeks instead of three years. Richard
of course could not help noticing this; but he either cared little
about his sister's feelings toward him or was well skilled in hiding
his own. He treated her as lightly, as she him and Dolores b
came so much the object of his attention, that the whole family
could not well help noticing it. Dolores alone in her innocence
-failedto see anything unusual in his conduct and therefore lent
him her ear with the good-nature, which formed a fundamental
trait of her character. Oncewhen her eye suddenly, though un.
intention y turned to the place, where Lucy sat,she thought she
noticed a lurking expression in her look, which startled her. Her

303

r


304                    DOLORES.
eye passed on however and when a minute afterwards it met that
of Lucy a second time, nothing but tie old, tranquil indifference
was visible.
"I must have been mistaken" Dolores said to herself "though I
shouldn't wonder if the attention which this loquacious sailorboy
pays to my humble person, should increase her hostility. It is
my misfortune to suffer worst for what I value least. Heaven
knows, that I would gladly be spared the trouble, to listen to his
suada, for-let the others think what they please-t am not at
all inclined, to believe in there form'of these young rascal heroes.
There is something in Richard's eye, which says: beware! I wish
Charles would only come."
A sigh, which ended this soliloquy, induced Richard to press
her with thequestion, whether she felt unwell. A slight headache,
the consequence of her trip in the stagecoach, gave her a good
pretence, to withdraw to her room, where she threw berself upon
her bed and soon was lost in a crowd of promiscuous thoughts.
Richard was alone with Lucy now, for Henry had gone home
immediately after Dolores' departure from the parlor. He made
a motion like one that throws off a mask and said to his sister:
"Lucy, I am glad, we can have a tete-a-tete. You have studied
French, they tell me and you know what that means?"
"Supposing, I do Richard : what good will a tete-a-tete do you?
You surely have no secrets to communicate?"
"No Lucy, that is the fact. If I had, I might choose a differ-
ent person, to confide in."
"You are -very flattering, Richard, I must confess. If the be-
ginning of your tete-a-tete consists of taunts, what will the end
be?"
Richard looked at his sister attentively.
"Lucy" he said after a few moments, "it strikes me, that you
have changed most wonderfully, since I left you. Then you were
the embodiment of gentleness, kindness and consideration: now
you look sour enough to turn into No. 1 vinegar."
"May be I feel like what I look.. Many things have changed
here besides me Richard."
"So it seem, Lucy. Amongst other important items I notice the
reception of Dolores into universal favor."
Lucy smiled scornfully.

DOLORES.

"It does not take much penetration, to notice that"  -
No, nor that you'form an exception from the rule. haid-
use of it? Does Miss Lucyex
touches of jealousy and envy?"
Lucy's face remained unmoved.
"If you have no secrets to reveal, I may. In such a case how-
ever you will hardly wonder at my discretion."
Richard laughed.
"Lucy" he said, I do not recognize in you th  li
yore. But you have changed for the better; have improved..  o
show spunk and wit and cunning, all of which are imlroved qYou
ties. I must say my respect for you has considerably inqal
since our tets-a-tete.. I do despise nothing worse th  ireat
come under the head of geese."
"I am to consider that as a compliment?"
.Deoidedly. Since this discovery of yqur talents I shall treat
you very differently, from what I first intended. Instead treat
ing you as a dumnb and witless puppet-..J now mean to g ofus-
the clue=to the role you are to play.".iy
"Are to play? Richard, methinks you use expression a little
bit too positive."
"Do I? beg pardon then, Lucy. Of course I expect
on my behalf on your own free will, it being my business to c
ince you, that it lies within your own interest to do  so."
"Tsat sounds more reasonable. Let me hear, what you have
to say.
"First Lucy, allow me to insinuate, that you act very foolish
in giving way to any enmity to Dolores."y
ut why? Simply because you follow in the wake of th
ave seen very well, that you attached yourself to her inets.
I don't deny it; but Lucy, you must in justice confests.
you are as much to blame as she. While           ess,that
you turned a cold shoulder to my warm advance '  e kmdly
«It ma be;          y wrmadvances."
It may be; but I cannot-help it. It would make
crabbed, to see everybody worship before the golden calf."
"Jealous! upon my word! But Lucy you forget that if all the
world shifted round, you were no less inconsistent by turning her
Ny lfer having been her only supporter."
"Never mind that now; but come rather to the point."
20.

.

30521


I                    _
O6                   . DOLOfES.
"Very well, Lucy, just as you please. I have made up my mind,
to marry her-is that plain enough?"
started; but she didn't do her brother the favor, of seem
u    h s    d   On the contrary she broke out in derisive
igmuch surprised.O-  te
laughter. Richard was vexed.
"Wihter youar pas tellewhy that strikes you so ridiculous?"
"Wll you please tell masked
e asked.  t Richard? 'Leaving out of the question the propriety
of marrying a begar-girl-for she is really nothing else-the qes-
tion arises: Will she take you?"
'And that question, Lucy, you think-"
"Will be answered in the negative."hink
"The deuce it will! Ithnust T e     What1maes yo th
so?  he mtchis not so bad. The Governor has a heap of cash
so? The match is o   o
an.d TI-"
e stopped and cast an approving look at his person.
"You are a tolerably handsome fellow. That's what you meant
to  u a  Slit is idle to  speculate about it, for I can pitch a knour
to ay. S,,l
against every "think" of yours."
agichad hnng his head; but only for a moment.   g     .
"You see things too black," he resumed "and sIt cannot gve up
the hope of success' unless you prove your assertions. Why in
the worl should she refuse to marry me
"Yourmen are exceedingly conceited. If nothing else will satisfy
you, here is a direct answer: She loves somebody else."
Is that all?"
"If I tell you his name, you will change your tone."
"Out with the name then."
"Charles Fuchs."
'Richard jumped from the lounge as if a a scorpion had bit hima
but hs exctement was only momentary, at least as far as uwr
appearances were concerned.
"Fool thatsI was, to be frightened by a name. It was a mere
"Fool that I wasere
paroxsm and is over now."
p  Ahy Rcrd, don't dissemblebefore me: I know you fearhun."
"I did at one time I confess; but that time is over. His name
had the ancient power, but only for a moment. I tell you, I fear
him no longer; but I hate him. There is no remembrance of my
childhood, which is not in some way'ootemiduplhhs

DOLORES.

307

hateful face. He crossed me in every wish, he foiled me in every
undertaking, all my humiliations bear his name and if I have cause
t hate anybody, it is Charles Fuchs. . Bu I tell you I do not fear
him any more-why should I? Perhaps because he had easy d
at college, while I had to battle with winds        y ays
lowest kind of labor?"
"But Richard, it was your choice to go to sea      -
as easily have gone to college, if you had chosenou ight y
cann blame him for hardships of your own choosing?"
"Why, you wax e loquent in his defence. If I recollect rgt
there was always a -'nc.IfIiolet right,
theowas olors  a quiet penchant of yours that way. I see it all
now, Dolores has been condemned before your sight, because she
dared to lift her eyes to a man, whom Miss Lucy has condes-
*edd to adore."
Lucy made a disconnected attempt to disprove the charge; but
her confusion only confirmed his opinion.
"Dont you deny it Lucy" he said, "for I shall believe it not
withstanding. But then, that is no reason why we two should
quarrel. I sacrifice -ywhate toul
my hate to you, you yours to me and we are
even. Meanwhile we can promote each other's interest to the
best of our ability. How do you like the plan? If you agree,
here is my hand."
In justice to Lucy we must confess, that he took rather, than
received her hand. The gain of an ally restored Richard's good
humor.
"Ihknow now, that Dolores loves this Charles Fuchs; but I
should lie iu asanote'r question, if it wasn't rather delicate
under the circumstances."
"Do not spare me, Richard," Luc -as
"knw what you want to ascertain. I do believe, htCals
returns her passion."
This was uttered with so much melancholy sadness, that even
her selfish brother was touched by it.
"Poor Lucy!" he said. "I pity you with all my heart; but ity
alone will not do; we must act, conspire, spring mines-in short
o    ey thing, to foil this union and reach our purpose. I'll go
whileokher now, to gain her sympathy, and you may in the mean-
while keep your eyes and ears open, to benefit by any chance, that
mhay open."

*


f

308                    DOLORES.
Alas-! the seed thus sown fell on propitioUS soil. It sprouted,
grew, and ripened to a resolution, which put at jeopardy the 'hap
piness of two human beings. As long as she alone was concerned
Sth s love she had hesitated-now her brother's happiness was
affected like her own and what she had' shrunk from doin ster
herself, she now attempted with the convenient excuse of sisterly
affection.
Richard found his mother in her room. The excitement of the
last two days had somewhat affected her nerves and Dr. Palmer
who had called to see the children and on that occasionseen the
mother, had advised an afternoon's retirement. She smil, wh
Richard stepped into the room.
"That is kind in you my boy, to sacrifice your leisuretyour
their while more entertaining sport is to be found below.
am so glad, to see you Richard, and you can hardly realize how
muhImse"     o all the time. Come here my son and tell your
mother, all you have to say, and yet would  confide to every
body."
Richard followed her invitation.
"A mother's eye sees sharp, they say, lie remarked.  I
indeed a matter, which I wish to confide to you. It is a love af-
fair, mother."dino
'adisalways like to hear of love affairs. So Mrs. Fox did not
disguise her pleasure when she answered:
"A love affair? Perhaps you captured the heart of some for-
ein princess and now want my consent to your union?"
No mother, not exactly," Richard answered with a laugh. The
mistress of my heart is but a beggar-girl."
"A what?"
The old nature of Mrs. Fox flashed iop and for a moment she
felt inclined to resent, what she considered imprope sjoke.
But regaining her self-control as quickly as she had lost it, she
added:
"Explain yourself, my son. You surely cannot take pleasure
in making sport of your mother."
"No mother!'nothing is further from my mind. You will see
yourself, as soon as I pronounce the name of my intended. It is
Dolores."
"Dolores?"
yoursef, assoon
nn~lrP,.   /

DOLORES                       309
Mrs. Fox' amazement was genuine. She would have tho   h
of any name sooner than that. Her son had been away soolong
and only returned a day or two before and yet th''
very strange.
"Yes mother, Dolores. I wonder at your amazement. Has
' my selection not your approbation?" '
"es' Richard ver\T much, only I thought.-1 T   e, ht o
ma     y beggr-girl. But Dolores is no beggar-girl Richard:fdid
father never tell you of her birth? She is a Dutchess by right."
"I know she is!" Richard eagerly broke, in upon her words;
then checking himself he continued:  "Th'at is, mean I was
aware of her origin. It isn't the the Dutchess tho' I love but the
girl herself."
"God bless you Richard !"
That was his mother's benediction and consent. If she had
known, what a black lie he had uttered, she would have cnrsed,
instead of blessed him.
"Thank you mother" he now resumed. "I know, that you have
great influence over Dolores. Would you have the kindness to
use it in my favor?"
Mrs. Fox shrugged her shoulders.
influence on her? If you had spoken about her influence
on one, you would have been more correct. Dolores, gr  my boy, is
he girl to be influenced, and unless you succeed in winning
her free consent, neither I nor your father would venture to influ-
ence her decision."
. "A princess indeed !" Richard replied somewhat derisively  "A
real one could not receive more homage"
"A real one would not deserve more. No, my boy, do not rely
much on my influence; yet what I have, is "hn  o   at your disposal."
"Thank you mother, that is all I ask. I hardly expect that
ores will accept me all at once. I have 4 or 5 month at my
disposal and all I ask, is to -ginrm i t-
to her."ga                   ermission, to pay my attention
That demand is so reasonable, that a reasonable girl like Dol-
ores will hardly deny it, unless-"
"Unless what ?" he asked impatenly, when she stopped
"Unless her heart is already engaged."
There! a second time this objection! Until now he had hoped


310                     DOLORES.
that his sister might bare been mistaken, but now on hismother's
hint, he ceased to doubt. Very well then, let itbe so. The know
Sf hers and his too for that matter, shall not de-
S     tain hit. If he. cannot win her by fair means, he shall use foul
ones, for the prize at stake, is too great to be lost. It is not only
the girl he covets-tho' it cannot fue diem tha her sensuante
beauty begins to exercise a powerful charm on his sensual nature
---it is the....
Looking shyly around he interrupts his own thoughts. So much
does he fear, profane-ears may catch the secret of his soul
Sin his favor: Charles will not arrive before
There is one thin i  v    -.
-      k  nd h hasseve enire days to
the expiration of another week, and he has seven enti y
work in., Nut he has only these seven and what he expects to ac-
cbaccomplished within that time. But then,
complish, must be acm- h              hratro     h  bet
what shall he do? Can he calumniate the character of the absent
-what                       leaelfrom    hhshe cannot,
one and entice Dolores to a asty plge,       .
will not back out? Can he try the same game on him by playing
into his hand a forged letter, which shows her character as one
that's lost to honor ad repute? Both tricks are hazardous and
too uncertain of result. Something more cunning must be in-
vented so cunning, that even their sharp wit fails to comprehend
it. Or stop! would not the very simplest trap be the on . best
calculated for such superior minds? Would not- its verysimplic-
ity prevent distrust? Yes indeed the thought is worthy of his
brain,-he might have saidua demon's just as well,-and nothing
remains to be done except to specify the trap and the time of,
execution. But there is no need of hurry, in spite of the short-
ness of the time-indeed he knows, that many. a plot has failed
from sheer precipitation. He must first explore the grounds ; for-
tune seldom forsakes, the bold and he does not doubt, that more
than one chance will offer before the expiration of many hours.
CHAPTER XXXII.
INSTRUCTIONS.
tho' glad at Henry's arrival, tho'
-he- -ain the joy of their friends at the mansion, had, so o
anticipating  es                                  has . to

DOLORES.                       311
the light of their eyes, the joy of their hearts, he,.who under all
circumstances had proved himself the worth  - recipient of thefr
most fervent love, was yet absent. But hee
n the taas to come 'adt that.
fact alone was sufficient, to spread a glow of joyous anticipation
over their faces, which cast its reflection even on Henry. Not that
he had experienced much delight at the thought of soon meeting
his brother--no, he was at best-very indifferent about it; but chis
parents loved him moredearly on his brother's account, probably
without knowing it themselves. He however knew it and this
knowledge was hardly calculated to inspire himwith very warm
feelings towards his brother, H. had always be
t.h. faystbgrudged Charles
place in his parents'love, without ever taking the trouble
of finding the solution of that problem in his own short comings.
To say the truth, his probation on the ocean had not improved
him much if any, in spite of Captain Tarfield's laudator letter
and if it hadn't been for the pleasant excitement of his parents;
they would have seen it at once.
Ever since the departure of the two sans Mr. Burlesque had
been an inmate of the family. He had occupied Charlie's Tocnn
and taken care of Charlie's pets and collection
,mapn'asoletin at that young
man's particular request. At first Mrs. Fuchs could not bear the
ought of seeing a stranger installed in the room, where the
spirit of her boy had left its impress on every sp bg u
thmresoneer                        pot; but gradually
ways of the new-comer and especially his enthusiasts
tic love for Charles, had overcome her repugnance. She had long
ago received him under her particular care, and in her  ar
affection, and Mr. uls1e o     apa adi       e particular
afin  ndM. Burlesque 'vowed, that if he had improved' in
these three years it was solely due, to the salutary influence of
Charlie's mother.
It was touching to see hoth
ow these two persons now vied, to make
the reception of the favorite a festival worthy of his merits. Mr.
Burlesque spent all his spare hours in fixing up the room, in ar-
ranging the books, dusting the glass-cases containing Charlie's
collection of butterflies and insects; in polishing the memorable
engine and, lastly;in painting new the cages and enclosures of the
animals in the zoological department of the garden. Mrs. Fuchs
in the meantime was hardly less busy in her department. She
completed her stock in pantry and cellar, an-i
y    ce he and studied in -advance
Suc cae     .a.hewud.ae.easeh lkd hm bs,1              e


312. .                  DOLORES.
huslpand nodded and smiled at her bustle and activity, and so did
Henry smile; but a careful observer would have noticed an in-
gredient of bitter envy.in his smile, and that he ground his teeth
when indulging in. this manifestation .of satisfaction. The obser-
ver would have shook his head and wondered what this all would
come to yet.
Mr. Burlesque did not like the brother of his friend. He had
mixed too much with society of every description as not to un-
derstand the character of Henry. Burlesque. himself had been of
rather loose habits and he surely was the last person to cast a
stone at Henry for a similar weakness. But it was hardly for
such a defect, that one would have taken the the young mariner
to account. There was a certain something in him, which Bur-
lesque felt but yet could not define: The comedian could think
of nothing more fitting to compare him with, than the cat. When
he saw Henry strolling about, his eyes half shut, his gait loiter-
ing but his step noiseless and cautious, he could not help thinking
of that animal. You stroke her and she sings and brushes her
soft fur against you. She curves her back and whisk her tail-
in short she shows every sign of supreme satisfaction. But you
look into her eyes and you will perceive that expression of malig-
nant cunning, of cruel heartlessness. which she cannot entirely
banish. You also see the working of the claws,-they lie con-
cealed the balls of the foot; but there is a nervous twitching in
them, as if the animal was laboring under a strong temptation, to
spread them out and sink them into the hand, which caresses it,.
unconscious of its danger.
Henry on the other hand seemed equally disinclined to make
much of Mr. Burlesque. He spent most of his time in Richard's
company and the two were more frequently seen at the mansion,
then at the cottage. Their long companionship on board the ves-
sel made the intimacy so natural, that their parents found nothing
strange in it; but if they could have witnessed all their secret
meetings and whispered conversations, they might perhaps have
changed their opinion. The nearer the day of Charles arrival ap-
preached, the more numerous did this interview become. Some-
times Richard and Henry put their heads together and then again
Richard and his sister might be seen in lively but guarded con-
versation. It was on coming from one of; the latter, that we see

DOLORES.                      313
Richard wending his way to the cottage. Henry was sitting on
the porch, indulging in his favorite amusement-smoking and
idling-an
"Co4le in Dick !" he cried, when he saw the other stopping at
the gate.
"No, you come down, Henry. I want to have a chat with you.
Let us stroll up and down the road."
Ienry would have preferred to     g h   -
Richard wished him to come out and Richard genea;.butwthen
he was about. So he joined him.
"Well what's the matter this time Dick?"
"The old yarr Henry, old but always new."
"What's up now?"
"I have a paper in my pocket, that's worth a hundred thousand
dollars."
"No? The governor hasn't been that generous?"
"Dont be a fool, Hen. I am only using figures.,. The paper in
my possession is more than likely to. help me to those nice do-
mains in Italy you know."
" Ah ,!"
-
"And you to a handsome fortune in the bargain,"
"So much the better."
"But ain't you curious, Henry ?"
"No, you know, I. never was. 'Tis too much trouble."
"Well your laziness beats all I ever saw in that line. I like my
leisure as well- as you; but when it comes to working out a plan
"I thought 3 ou were going to tell me something."
"And so I am, See here, do you know this writing?"
"No, I don't."
"Well, it is Dolores'."
"Ah !"
"A' leaf from her diary."
"Ah !"
"And a precious leaf, I tell you.- Jut,read this line."
"Do I love him? No I love him not." "There now!"
"What does she mean? I do not understand it."
"She talks about your'brother. It is he, she does not love."
"But you told me the contrary all along."


0

314

D OLORES.

"I' do so still; but this paper says, she. does not love- him-it
surely isn't our businesstor conttadict her own writing?"
"Of course it isz't. But what does it mean?"
"It means, there is another page following this one, one in which
she states, that instead of loving she worships him."
"Ha! ha! I suppose, that was a bitter pill for you, Dick?"
"I didn't see it myself; but only learned it from Lucy."
"That doesn't .make it apy sweeter. And this leaf you got
from Lucy, did you?"    -.
"Yes, she is a precious girl and by getting her, you'll get a
jewel. None of your dry, insipid wax-dolls."
"I haven't got her yet"--
"But, you shall have her, depend upon it."
"Did you sound her on that point?" Henry asked with more vi-
vacity, than he had yet shown.
"No, I didn't. To tell you the truth, Henry, your case doesn't
lie any more favorably than mine. In fact I know she looks with
partiality upon your brother."
A curse slipped through Henry's lips.         '
"He always was in my way!"
"And so in mine.",
"He always foiled my purposes."
"And so mine."J
"I hate him.".
"And so do I."
"He must not interfere with- me in this instance."
"Nor with me, Henry. You see we are natural allies.  If he
succeeds, we- are done for; by his ruin we may effect our fortune."
"You are right; but how can we accomplish our purpose."
"By working into one another's hands. All that is necessary,
is to induce your brother, to believe, that Dolores is faithless, or
rather, that she does not love him-for I hardly think, that they
have already plighied one another's faith."
"And you hope to accomplish that, by placing this paper in his
hands?"
"Just so, Henry and by placing myself before his 'eyes in the
light of a successful wooer."
"That's a devilish good idea, I must say."

DOBORES.

315

"Yes it is good enough; but the ideasalone won't do it and I
rely on your. assistance to turn, it to account."
"What do you want me to do?"
"I was just going to explain. You have been absent on sea,
you know and you come home a repentant sinner.with a heart full
of love and tenderness for the long-missed brother."
"But Richard-that is a confounded lie."
"Never mind the lie. The weight of just one more will hardly
kill you. Well, our dear Charles arrives, he jumps from the car-
riage, and before he knows it, a loving brother lies in his arms."
"Split me, if he does anything like it!"
"Henry, you are a trying case. Have the kindness to hold your
peace, until I have done. Where was I? Oh,. yes! a loving brother
lies in his aims. He is agreeably surprised. His conscience tells
him, that he has hardly deserved such love, and he resolves to
make up for lost time. Arm-in-arm the affectionate couple step
into the house. Enter delighted parents, with profusion of bles-
sings. An affecting drama is put in scene: domestic happiness in
one act. Persons: Adam and Eve, Cain and Abel!"
"I am Cain, I suppose?"
"Suit yourself. Who'd be that soft dunce of an Abel? But I
told you, not to interrupt me. You make me lose my thread."
"Cain and Abel was the last."
"Exactly, Cain and Abel. Abel is in love and consequently
something of a fool. Cain's friend has a hankering after Abel's
mistress and has managed to get a leaf of her diary, in which she
says, she doesn't love Abel."
"I didn't know they understood the art of writing as -early as
that."
"Henry, you are intolerable. If I didn't need you so badly, I'd
desert you on the spot."
"Well, can't you let a fellow show his learning every once in a
while?"
"Why yes, excuse me, they ought to have made you professor
of history. But to come back'to our drama. Abel has been ab-
sent and flies to see his mistress ; but Cain-you pay attention:
do you?"                       .'
"Go ahead steamboat."
"Very well, I'm coming to the point nowa Cain, because of the


316                    DOLORES.
great love he bears his brother just catches him by the c atsleeve
and stops his exit. Abel frowns and wonders; but Cain, emain-
ing undiscomfited, says with a tender smile : Excuse me, brother
dear; you do not like my conduct, but you will appreciate it, when
you read these lines. I don't want my brother to make a fool of
himself."
"Veryingenious Dicky; the deuce take me, if it isn't.
"I knew, you would say so Henry. Need I pa in further de-
tails of the scene?"
"No, Sir, let me have the paper."
"And you'll be sure, to act'your role to nature ?"
"Never mind me; if you carry out your part of the programme
as well as I'll play mine, you may be pretty sure of success. But
then what will you gain by this?"
"I'll gain this much thata cloud of distrust will rise between
them and in a cloud, you know a good many tricks may be per-
formed. Charles is a proud hasty fellow and Dolores is not slow,
to resent insults. If we can only raise a spark of discord be-
tween them, we shall soon manage to fan it into a flame."
well, may be, we can; it is worth trying anyhow. But J am
tired of'walking any further; come let's go home and have a glass
of wine.
"I have no objection, Hen; but before we return, let us fix on
some certain signal, by which you can without delay inform me
ofm our brother's coming. It is essential that I should receive
p      instant warning.
"How would the flagstaff on the cottage do? I could run up a.
*:     small streamer, to let you know."
"Exactly. We can easily perceive it. from the mansion; but
when do you exactly expect your brother?"
"We got a letter this morning announcing his arrival on Sun-
day morning next."
"Then he'll come with the night brain?" -   .
"That's the calculation,"
"And you will fetch him from the depot?"
"Father or Burlesque I suppose. I hate to get up so early in
the morning."
Richard thought a moment.a,

impending visit at the mansion. It is essential, that I should
play the agreeable lover just in time for him, to see the sight."
"That's true. I have an idea, Dolores wouldn't let you play the
sentimental swain any length of time."
"Don't you fret. I'll do it Sir and do it well; but what abont
the second signal?"
"Why, I have a dozen streamers in my trunk. I can easily run
up a second one, as soon as he starts off for the mansion."
"And they'll think, you are flagging in honor of his arrival.
Ha! ha! That will be capital !"
"Yes so it will no doubt; but a glass of wine and a good cigar
are not to be despised neither. Here is the house. I am tired
enough to drop right down. Come in! come in Sir !"
Richard could not well refuse. He liked a glass of wine, espec-
ially, when it was as good as that of Mr. Fuchs and then, he had
to humor Henry, who was an indispensable accomplice. So the
two went in and Henryhgot the key and a few minutes afterwards
the wine sparkled in the glasses before their eyes. Sitting on
easy chairs and puffing their fragrant havannas, they sipped their
wine with a relish and a deep tranquillity, as if the most' angelic
business instead of a fiendish plot had just now been transacted
between them. They talked about their cruises and one word
chasing the other, it was nearly evening before Richard recollec-
ted that he had only intended to stay a few minutes and that bus-
iness of the most important kind was waiting for him at theouse.
He had only a few days to operate in and no minute was to be-
lost.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
A MITTEN.
When he reached the mansion, the bell just rang for supper and
he hastened to join the family in a very pleasant meal. The many
topics, which a long absence from home had accumulated were
not half exhausted and the conversation sprang playfully from
one subject to another, touching them lightly and merely extract-
ing their cream. After supper Mrs. Fox retired to her room, Mr.
Fox to his library and the two girls and Richard went to the par-

DOLORES-

317


-318                    DOLORES.
bor. The days were not only getting short but cold and the grate
therefore contained -a cheerful fire. The room was as elegant as
comfortable and Richard felt a keen; feeling of satisfaction, when
he dropped into the swelling cushions of an armchair, exchang-
ing occasional remarks now with Dolores, now with Lucy. The
open instrument called his mind to music.
"Dolores, I have not heard you play" he said "and yet they
tell me, that you excel jin music as much as in everything else.
Will you have the kindness to perform for me?"
"You have learnhd to turn your phrases well enough for a tar.
I shall play for you on condition, that you will hereafter exclude
the unwholesome element of flattery from your remark to me."
"I'll do most anything to please you."
Dolores shrugged her shoulders, as if to say: why, you are in -
corrigible! Perhaps to gratify his.wish, perhaps to escape further
adulation from his lips, she rose and took the seat before the in-
strument. Running her fingers up and down the keys and elicit-
ing from them some rapid passages like as many silver pearls, she
involuntarily, yes imperceptibly fell into the air of home, sweet
home! which she worked into an everchanging stiring of varia-
tions. Like every true artist, she forgot, that she was perform-
ing a task, even that she played before somebody. While her
fantasy raised its wings higher and higher, her thoughts began to
wander back, far back into the past. She saw a sicJ and falter-
ing ministrel in the street with a little girl at his side, and a tear
slipped down her eheek as an offering to the memory of the dead.
Then she ran over the years that followed, varying her music in
accordance with the gayer or sadder subjects of her thought. She
saw the cottage and its inmates, the parsonage with the quaint
but noble pair, the ocean and the cave and the exciting scenes
she there went through. Next her school-life rose up to view, the
Frenchman with his cut and dried perfection, the odd but genial
German, the model principal and her prince consort. Then came
the contest, the homeward journey and arrival....
She gave a start., She did not know how long she had been
playing. Richard didn't either. He thought it had been very
tiresome; but of course kept his thought unto himself. When
Dolores had begun, he had penciled a short note and shoved it
to his sister, in consequence of which she had risen and retired

.DOLORES.                     319
so' softly, as to escape the notice of the performer  Aft  th
Richard had wished, that Dolores, would sto  H  didn't a
about 'music! he didn't understand it! nothing but thumping,
dingling, gingling, anyhow. If she would only stop! ! pOfc g
he couldn't hint his wishes! He couldn't begin to entertaintrse
thought of causing her displeasure. She'll get tired at last
There, now, she's closing. Now is the time Dick!r
Dolores rose rapidly from her stool. On noticing Luy'
drawal, a shadow passed over her brow. Jealous! for ever jeal-
ois! were the words which passed through he    r  .  je
thought was natural, for of course she didn't know anything
about Richard's manoeuvres.
"I must have tired you Richard" she said taking her book and
handkerchief from the table; evidently preparing herself for re-
tirement "but you will undoubtedly pardon the offence on th
promise of its nonrecurrence."
"I have nothing to pardon you Dolores; but rather to thank
for the entertainment. But I am in a mood for asking favors ou
evening: will you have the kindness, to take your chair and vouch-
safe me a few minutes' conversation? I shall not detain you long.
Dolores.smiled; but she resumed her previous positiong.
rocking-chair,
"I never had an idea, that the ocean was such a good school
for politeness. It will hardly do, to slight so respectful a solici ta
tion, especially if the petitioner is a brother."
The word "brother" seemed to grate on Richard's ear  H
could not suffer her to put that bar between herself and h' a
rations.
"No, not of a brother Dolores. Understand me right: It would
make me happy to sustain that relation to one so ood  nobld
and accomplished, if I wss not ambitious, of assug, so noble,
more intimate and sacred. Dolores I tremble more before your
sight than I did during the raging of the tempest Spare meur
further explanation and tell me, that you understand me"
She did understand him; but her sensations-on discovering his
meaning were anything but pleasant. She felt like oneo  s
a venomous serpent winding at his face, ready to fasten its loathi
coils around 'him in unrequited tenderness. But she hno soone
become aware of thi. feeling, when she blamed herself for it a


,

2o

DOLORES.

unworthy of her generous nature.  If Richard had once wand-
ered astray, he had atoned by a long and\painful probation. There
was no dishonor to her in his avowal and this idea having strug,
gled.to the surface of her mind, her .original indignation and re-
pugnance changed to deep compassion. She thought of Charles
and her love for him, and how she would feel on being spurned
and loathed, as she had first intended, that Richard now should
be. Of course it did not'take her more than a second, to let these
thoughts flash through her mind, and there had been hardly a
pause, when she replied:
"It would be unworthy of me and trifling with you, to pretend,
I didn't understand you, Richard. I do understand you, but it is
my painful duty, to warn you not to proceed. I cannot, never
will be able to listen to your wishes, and the sooner you desist
from your efforts, the more will you spare your own feelings and
mine."
Richard knew, that this would be her answer; moreover he was
merely acting the passionate lover for a purpose; yet, when he
heard himself thus premptorily refused, he felt a burning ire aris-
ihg within him. He felt like hurling his defiance at the head of
this proud beauty; who spoke, or thought at least any aspira-
tions to her hand on his part mere presumption.' Indeed for a
moment he was in great danger of falling from his role-and
many a bitter hour would such an ocurrence have spared the girl
before him-but unfortunately he governed himself in time to
hide his emotions. Assuming a sad and reproachful tone he said:
"Dolores, have you really the heart of shutting thus on me the
ate of heaven, without any chance of entrance whatever? If
you forbid a fellow thus peremptority, to love you, why don't you
wear a veil? why don't you hide your dazzling beauty, your bril-
liant mind, your high accomplishments within a convent's walls?
Con you blame the person, who, warmed and cheered by the
genial sun, ventures to raise his eyes to his blending glory?"  j
"No Richard, I would not blame him, I would pity him, as I
pity you; for his wishes would be as unattainable, as yours. HQa-
yen forbid, that I should compare my humble self with that hea-
venly luminary-but you choose the figure and I borrowed it for
convenience sake. I am sorry for you, Richard, extremely sorry
and would give you a year of my existence, to restore your peace

DOLORES.

of mind, Requite your feelings I cannot and feel in honor  d
in conscience bound, to tell you so, without duplicity."
He sighed--perhaps the sigh was no longer mere acting  f  t
was almost impossible, to see this glorious creature in heg,for
reserve and not become impressed..gran
"Ah! Dolores! If you.but knew, how much more lovely     -
dignfied refusal is making you in my sight, ou w   d have
chosen a different mode of checking the ardor of m  would Lhave
at me, mock, scorn me, tread me in the dust--ony dontwaugh
yourself in this celestial light, which pains my eyes and  rep
me to destruction like the moth that is drawn into the aure
of the burning taper."e autodafe
Dolores rose to her feet. She smiled in spite of herlf
"Richard, you are too flowery, in your speaking for n  tht'
just going to die. I do not say, that you desire to deceive me ---
far be it from me !--but I think, you ard
have only seen me one day and thatrwas hardly long enoughYo
period, to conceive so desperate a passion. If you examinough a
feelings a little more closely, you will find, that the  aine con-
siderable portion of that spontaneous gallantry for which you
seamen are noted. Allow me, to wish you a very peasant night."
Dropping a deep courtesy, she was on the po  eainghe
room, when Richard's voice once more stopped her. He had risen
and there was an element of truthfulness in his voice, when he
cried :                                       iehnh
"Dolores! stop! for heavens sake, sto  on
When I told you just now, to laugh at me, I did no  oment
I was asking. Oh! if you could know,4 how ever  nof your
gay words pierced my heart like daggers, ou s ly one of your
forborne. Dolores do not go, without leaving me a ray oflh
to illuminate the darkness of despair. I know I hav been tooh
presumptuous to think, that so proud a fortress as ave beegio
heart, would just surrender on the first summons, I'our virgin
ience, I'll follow you as unobtrusively as your shadow; but vpa
just as constantly. I'll be your slave, my whole life shall be de-
voted to your service-only dont turn your back  me de
with one single word destroy every hope, thus doomin me tot
lot of the criminal, who, chained to a subterranean dugeo th
destined to pass a life without the genial sun.ngeoni
21h             eia   u.

321


$22                     DOLORES.
Dolores was a young and inexperienced girl; yet a certain in-
tuition enabled her, to distinguish between reality and acting.
She felt, that deep passion binds the tongue, instead of losening
it and that even the post gifted mind forgets its cunning and
trembles and stammers in the presence of the loved one. So, al-
though she did not doubt, that Richard felt something of the feel-
ing he professed, she was convinced that lie was guilty of over-
drawing perhaps intentionally perhaps unintentionly. She felt as
if she ought to check this game at once. If she indulged him,
that pain, which now she thought, was mere pretension, might be-
ome reality. It would not do-a german book had told her,-
to paint the devil on the wall. So turning to the passionate
young ipan with a resolute face, she said firmly, though with kind-
ness:
"Richard you ask impossibilities. To smile on you would be
to encourage you and that I can not do conscientiously. If you
understand my decision to be irrevocable, you will cease, to waste
your best strength in useless efforts. To now encourage you and
then at last repel your homage. would be the conduct of a coq-
uette-I am no coquette, Richard, Wand though I now may hurt
your feelings, I mean well. Let ut forget, what passed between
us and be assured, that, if I cannot listen to your wishes just ex-
pressed,---I shall always be to you a true and faithful sister.
The nod, with which she left the room, had nothing of the
former mocking playfulness. It was grave and sympathetic, but
on Richard it had the same effect. He could hardly wait for the
door to shut upon the departing form,-to burst into a raging
passion and to shake his fists in the direction, where Dolores had
left.
"Wait, madam!" he cried. "I'll teach you manners before you
are many days older, b I'll teach you to spurn the offer of a man
without whose assistance you'll always remain, what you are now
--a beggar-girl. Mock princess now-your proud neck will gladly
stoop, as soon as you learn, that I can all at once transform you
in a real princess."

DOLORES.
CHAPTER XXXiy.

323

HEIGHT AND DEPTH.
Merrily the whip in SMr. Burlesque's hand cracked through the
morning air, when on Sunday morning' htidviulrtre
From the depo  ih   ht    y monig that individual returned
een a photograph of tharles at his side. It's well we have lately
neenht findoprapfi th gentleman in Dolores' possession or we
might find difficulty in recognizing nphi saelyfomgrce
with mo~usta~che n  hrcgmzg in this stately form graced
with outpace and whiskers our old and tried friend Charles.
His countenance was radiant wihepcainCu hilaBrles.
.  u  ep  pa oss-ain with expectation ; but while Bures
Charles onty av ntant stream of talk, half comical half earnest
even them in the mte shortest and most inevitable answers and
eventhe  inthemost confused manner, so as to deontaeo
certainty, that his mind was absent,  so  a demonstrate to
nimble feet osoloBting far ahead of the
nith a neigh and   rowny, who had greeted his former master
wit anegh  n   ow tried hard to win his appro bationb  i
speed. Yet Charles' thotridhrs o  i  i   pproaton by his
have seen and hre th ought were faster than the horse, as we
mind had been th  the wagon landed his body at the gate, his
imsf ha te there long ago. On jumping down Charles found
himself in the embrace of a youth, that could be nobody but his
hardly county nd set he somehow, without knowing why, had
hardly cned on such warm reception on his part. But there
he was and smiling too and if the thought of a mistake had still
"Wn has, the other's address set every doubt aside.
"why Charlie, how you stare: dont you know your brother
"I thk                              o   ou    rt e
any more?"
"I thought you were Henry, only...
"Only you had hardly expected such merry welcome from his
flps? of  ha '  iis not fair, to charge the man with the
folly of the boy."hte
"God forbid I should Henry. Nobody can rejoice
ait the thought, that the disagreeable jarring betw  us  than 
no more. You know, I never meant you harm, Henry."
"Yes, Charlie, I know now; but there is moth
within her hear forkt.er, scolding me
heart, for keeping you away from her emb
up at once-I can afford-to come in afterwards".
A moment after Charles lay in hi
father cm          info  his hr.s mother's arms. Then hi
"N   w cam e  in  for  his  share.fs
"Now you are inle again," Mrs. F~ssi     fe  h   is  x
Fu                 h   ad a t r  h  i s  m.


324                    DOLORES.
change of salutations. "My pleasure at seeing you, will no longer
embittered by the thought of losing you again."
"But mother, I am even now meditating on a chance of leaving
you
His smile assured her of the harmlessness of his intentions.
She thought, she knew what he alluded to.
'You are, you wicked boy," she answered with that roguish
plainness so peculiar to her. "That is a mother's fate all the
world over. Hardly weaned, you youngsters desert her and run
after the apron-strings of some blue-eyed girl with rosy cheeks
and dimples."                      -
Charles blushed and thereby proved the correctness of her
supposition. Mr. Fuchs also began to see.
"Ah, the wind blows from that direction, does it?"-he asked.
"Of course, Conrad, didn't you see it all at once? If we force
him to squint at the mansion much longer, we'll have him cross-
eyed before night."
Mr. Fuchs laughed. He enjoyed a joke as much as anyone on
festive occasions and his son's return was a festival of the first
magnitude.
"We cannot load snch dreadful risk upon our conscience, can
we mother?" he suggested.M
Charles fell from one confusion into another. It is a good sign,
to see a young man of twenty-one blush-some have forgotten
how, at the age of fifteen. He tried to laugh it all away, but
laughing made it rather worse than better, for before he knew it,
they all had joined him and were enjoying their merriment at his
expense.
At last his mother had mercy on him. Taking his -hand and
fondling it, she said:
"Now father, leave my boy alone, will you. We have seen him
once every year. and a certain young lady has been obliged to
forego that pleasure for more than three years. Go my son, and
follow the dictates of your heart; we do not blame yon for obey-
its instincts. Only don't stay too long, and bring our Dol along,
that we may bless her, and feast our eyes upon a sight, which re-
alizes the ardent wishes of our hearts."
'"Oh, mother, you are the best of women! You need never fear,
that she'll dispute the first place in my heart with you."

DOLORES.       /

"I knoweit Charles; but tell us before you go: were you success-
(iii in the contest?"
Theform of the young man seemed to grow. A fire of pride
and conscious strength kindling in his eye, he said :
"Yes, mother, I'm going, to lay the first prize at Dolores' feet."
"I knew it!" his mother said, her voice echoing his triumph
'But Charlie you'll give but to receive. Dolores is fully your
equal. She too out-distanced all competition."
"You tell me nothing new, mother. I saw it in the girl the first
day she paid a visit to our house. But will you really pardon me
for leaving you for half-an-hour?"
"For double that time, Charlie, and with all our hearts too
But don't forget this condition : you must indemnify us for our
loss of time by returning with your better half."
Charles was in danger of becoming the prey t a second con-
fusion, and only escaped it by running from the room, In the
hall he took his hat, and clearing the steps of the pclrch with one
spring, he was on the point of passing through the gate, when
Henry's voice stopped him:
"Charles! indulge me just a moment: I want to talk to you on
matters of importance."
"Exactly, Henry, I am at your service, that iscif you will just
consent to postpone the discussion to this afternoon. If your
affairs are important, others still more important demand my
presence at the mansion."
Henry shook his head, and looked at Charles with such a queer
expression, that the young man started.
"I knew the object of your errand, Charlie, and if I tell you
that my communication directly bears upon it-will you then
vouchsafe me a short interview?"
Charles evidently was far from understanding his brother yet;
but a vague fear arose in his heart, that threatened to suffocate
him.
"You want to tell me something of-of Dolores?"
Henry nodded. Charlie's eye kindled. Setting his teeth to-
gether, he said:
"Henry, beware! I am very touchy on that- one point, and the
slightest abuse of her I worship might put atj eopardy the rel
tion which has begun under such good auspices.'

3$5


DOLOREs.

Henry nodded like a man that has well and carefully consid-
ered the consequences of his actions.
"I know-it, Charles, I know how unpleasant is the office of the
person, who advises us for our best interests against our inclina-
ation. The surgeon's cut, which precedes the process of heal-
ing, is even more painful than salutary."
Charles chafed under his brother's remark, like the steed that
strikes the ground with a restive foot; but Henry had so well se-
cured his bridle, that all his brother's efforts to get lose were idle.
saw it, and from that moment felt sure of his victory.
"Henry, if you had no other object, than to entertain me with
stale similes and well established axioms... .
"No, YCharlie, you know, that that is not my object. It is so
painful, tho' to hurt the feelings of those we love."
"I absolve you from all delicacy, Henry, on condition that you
hurry on with this affair.  What have you to tell me, speak !"
So pressed, henry saw no evasion. Taking his brother's arm
and leading him in the direction of the factory, he said:
"Charles, tell me truly: do you go to the mansion with the pur-
pose of offering yourself as a wooer for Dolores's affection? I
do not ask from idle curiosity."
"Yes, Sir, I do. There is no need of hiding the existence of a
feeling, which constitutes the pride of my life."
"I thought so," Henry said with a sigh. "But have you ever
f    by word or letter exchanged your vows of love?"
"You are inquisitive. But I shall construe your curiosity as
dictated by the feelings you profess. My answer is: no, Sir, we
have never spoken or written about love to one another and the
whole rich treasure of delight is still in store for us."
"But Charles"-Henry stopped walking and took his brother
by the arm-"has it never struck you, that there is a bare poss -
bility, of your feelings being unrequited?"
If Charles had been turned into a statue, he could not have
been more immovable, as he was for the period of five minutes.
Only by degrees his dumbness seemed to leave him, and at last he
was able to utter:
"Henry, this question-has a meaning-Recollect, what I told
you of the risk-you run: Do you know anything to the con-
trary?"

"Before I answer your reply, I would simply state, that I am.
no informer. If any act of Dolores, by which she may have
given away her heart to any-body else casts a reflection on her
character, 1 have no, more to say."
"Don't worry me to death by your evasions, Henry. I never
said .or did anything, which would have made it wrong in her, to
love somebody else. Now go on ! go on !"
"Your statement relieves me, Charlie. I am now free to give
the reasolls, that make me think, that Dolores looks at you in the
light of a dear friend, but nothing more. Firstly Richard has
intimated to me....
"Henry!"
This word pronounced with virtuous indignation, brought the
calumniator to a stop.
"Do you think the say-so of a fool and knave sufficient ground,
to weaken my faith in the purity of a girl like Dolores?"
"I do not, Charlie, and if you will allow meAo proceed, I shall
be able to convince you. The statement of Richard-on what
ground you bestow those flattering epithets on him, however, I
am at a loss to comprehend-his statement alone, I say, would
not have induced me to seek this interview. But if it is sustained
by testimony from the lady's own hand, it is certainly worthy of
some consideration."
"You understand how to apply all the means of a slow torture."
"No, Charlie. I am nearly through. The other day, when I
entered the park for the purpose of paying a visit to the family,
I saw a piece of paper slowly fluttering from the upper story,
which after numerous evolutions and somersaults alighted at my
feet. Inffuenced by an almost unconscious curiosity, I picked up
the paper and would surely have thrown it away as fast as I had
seized it, if I had not recognized Dolores' handwriting. Mother
had shown; me several letters of hers,.and there is so much attrac-
tion in the beautiful handwriting, and the more beautiful thoughts
of those letters, that I could not resist the temptation of scan-
ning the lines in my hand. If I did wrong, the supposition, that
a paper so freely passed, could not contain a secret, must be my
excuse."
"And this paper-you have it yet?"
The powerful emotion which, though suppressed, trembled in

n        x            l'  1  ' 3
=.

DOLORES.

36

327

,


38.                   . DOLORES.
every word of this question,; awakened in Henry's mind the con-
sciousness of the great danger, to which he had exposed himself.
His position was-similar to that of the man, who shares the lion's
cage, and knows, that his safety depends on his assurance-a
single step back, and the lion will tear him to pieces.
"Yes Charles, I have it yet. I kept it for the purpose of show-
ing it to you. I somehow had. an intuitive perception that things
would just come about, as they have done and, much as I loathed
the thought of paining you, I preferred it to the other of seeing
you the subject of, humiliating ridicule or even deception."
"The paper ! the paper !"
Henry took a portfolio from his pocket and from it drew a
paper, which he handed to his brother. Charles at once recog-
nized the hand of her, that was so dear to him. His eyes swam
and it took some minutes, kefore he was steady enough to read.
He proceeded and it was a painful sight to witness this perusal.
Henry, hypocrite that he was, took'care to look in another direct-
tion, while his brother was thus engaged. The paper ran:
Very likely the last letter, I'll ever get from him. One
more 'week and I shall have ceased to be the happy school-girl,
to enter into a state not less laborious and even more responsible.
One more week to prepare for the contest! I ought to concen-
trate my thoughts upon my studies; but I cannot do it. How-
ever much I struggle to retain them here, they constantly fly to
my native home and to the dear dear face, I shall there meet
again.
There is a picture of Charles in the letter, a splendid photo-
graph. He wears a moustache now and handsome whiskers and
I 'was so much engaged with looking at the picture, that I didn't
notice, how one of the girls came yp. behind and gazing over my
shoulders, saw the picture. I started like a thief detected in
the act of stealing, when she elapped her hands and with a merry
laugh exclaimed:
"A man! a man! Our Lady Perfeet has the picture of a man!
He is handsome tho' and I'll keep mum, if you will on the spot
confess, who he is and 'whether you love him very much?"
Ifelt a burning in my face-of indignation I think it was at
'    her indignation. Without deigning to answer a word to her
question, I turned abruptly and sought my chamber. There how-

DOLORES.                      329
ever her question haunts me all the time: Do I love him?--K
Love him not...
That was allso hut it was enough. No I love him not! Those
words sounded in his ears, they echoed through his brain; they
sounded like the sentence, with which the judge condemns the
after the jury having found him guilty. It is hard to tell, how
lofg Charles would have stood there on the road, staring at the
-nftatprsper; if Henry had not reminded him of the neces-
sity, to preserve the necessary composure before the people, who
began to flock to church.
"Come Charlie, bear it like a man" he said, and would have
continue his consolations, if an impatient gesture of his brother
had not stopped him
"I know, what you would say and 'tis well enough. Yes Iam
indebted to you for opening my eyes just in due time, to save me
from making a fool of myself. If I had known this before my ar-
rival, I should have invented an excuse for prolonging my ab-
sence. As it is, I told mother, that I would go and see her. Very,
well, I'll do just as I told her. Why shouldn't I? This egregious
conceit of mine deserves a punishment. Moreover I must con-
fess that I am curious to see what happiness she enjoys as the
betrothed of such a fellow!"
He spoke with so much bitterness, that Henry thought best to
keep his peace. He was glad, when they reached the cottage, for
he felt very much like ridding himself of the company of his vic-
tim. After reaching his hand to the parting brother he walked
up stairs, to hoist another streamer.
"So!" he muttered "my duty is done Mr. Dick and yours be-
gins. Itf you do your part as well as I did mine. success cannot
be wanting. But if you fail-and that is very likely; for I, tell
you,'tis hard to bamboozle him any length of time--if you fail, I
say, I shall escape the penalty of my offence by making you the
scape-goat. You must not think Mr. Dick, that I am the cat
which hauls the chestnuts from the fire for you; not I. Indeed I
think Charles wasn't so very wrong by calling him a fool-a fool
and a--well Henry dont you be calling names... One or the other
night keep sticking to you by mistake. He must be there now
pretty nearly, and this child is too smart for you, to step into his


330                    DOLORES.
way on coming home. I'll take the hook and line and try my
luck at fishing."
But let us now return to Charles and anticipate his arrival at
the mansion a few minutes.
Over the mansion the Sunday had broke as gloriously as over
the cottage and when dark clouds were already gathering over
the latter, sunshine was still shedding its pleasant glow upon the
former. At breakfast the question of going to church had been
raised Mr. andMrs. Fox had declared their intention of attending
service and walking the short distance, in order to allow John the
chance of a holiday. On hearing this determination Richard at
once volunteerrd his company, because he wished that Dolores
should stay at home, and felt convinced, that this would not hap.
pen, unless she could do so without the prospect of. being unmoZ
tested by his importunities. True, he had abstained from annoy-
ing her; but he had not always been so successful in governing
his looks, as his words and the conduct of Dolores had plainly,
shown that she deemed it necessary, to be on the guard. Gen-
erally Dolores was quick in joining any company like that pro-
posed; but this time she pleaded an unprepared state of mind as
an excuse for remaining at home. Lucy had received her instruc-
tions from her' brother, and of course announced her purpose of
going with her parents. Thus Dolores was to remain alone, and
when the church-party had left the premises, and disappeared be-
hind the bushes of the park, she felt a secret pleasure at being by
herself. No doubt her thoughts wandered to the friend, who by
this time had not only reached the cottage, but might be even on
the way to the mansion, if his longing for a reunion was only half
as ardent-as.her own. Perhaps the knowledge of that fact had
had much to do with her remaining home from church; tho' when
she asserted that she was not in a proper mood for devotional ex-
ercises, she certainly told the truth.
Dolores tried to take a book and read, but her eyes and mind
both refused to perform their ordinary task. The air was so close,
so oppressive in the house, that she felt the necessity of seeking
the open air. Taking her shawl and straw hat, she descended to
the portico and thence into the park. There she felt somewhat
freer, and with every new step, her composure became more com-
plete. She felt happy 'in the morning air,'in the consciousness of

DOLORES.                        331
her beloved one's close proximity. After strolling a while, she
came to the seat, where several important moments of her life
had shaped themselves. Would it exercise a salutary influence
upon her destiny to-day? Could fate vouchsafe to her the hap-
piness of receiving just there the friend that filled her heart to the
exclusion of every other feeling?-She trembled at the mere thought
of so much happiness--poor child, why not rather tremble, at the
peril so much more real and near? You do not know, that Rich-
ard, on some pretence or other has retraced his steps, and having
climbed the fence of the park, is now concealed in your neigh
borhood, ready to break in upon your peace, as soon as the ap-
pearance of his adversary gives the signal! You do not know that
everything combines to make the plot of the conspirators suc-
cessful; you do not.know, that on seeing the impunity with which
they act, a doubt arises in the mind of a neutral spectator, whether
there is a ruling providence or not. Poor child, of all this you
are ignorant, and yet the storm is- about to burst upon your de-
voted head.
The garden-gate has creaked; but she is too much absorbed in
thought to hear it. Richard however has noticed it-his senses
are impaired by passion. From his hiding place he sees a form
passing through the bushes, tho' not with the eager step of the
lover that goes to meet the mistress of his heart after an absence
of years. If it is Charles, Henry must have been at work and
considerably dampen his spirit. So much the better; his task will
be comparatively easy then. Now he sees the features of the vis-
itor through an opening-it is Charles. He goes to the house,
he rings the bell, Susan opens and points to the park. He comes
down the steps and walking towards the seat occupied by Dolores
approaches rapidly. As yet he has not seen her, nor she him, but
she seems to feel his presence, for she is getting restless-now is
the time. Kneeling before her in theatrical fashion he cries:
"Dolores !"
A low scream from her lips betrays her surprise of seeing at
her feet a person, whom she thought then far away; but Dolores
is not apt to remain the prey of any involuntary emotion and she
is on the point of rising and repelling the boldness of the in-
truder when-listen! a step approaches,-behold! a face appears
through the foliage. It is Charles! it is Charles and so'strong is


332                     DOLORES.
her emotion that for the first time in her life, she loses the con-
trol of her body. Yet her soul flies out to meet him; she totally
forgets the kneeling figure at her feet; she does not feel, how he
takes her hand, she does not hear the stream of burning passion
he pours into her ear. Her eye is riveted upon the approaching
friend; but what is that? Is this face indicative of the rapture'
she is feeling? What does that melancholy expression signify?
Why is his step so slow? Now the sadness vanishes;. but it is
not joy, that takes his place. His face grows stern and rigid; his
eye does not even dwell on her; it seeks the ground, some object
at her feet-merciful heavens ! the whole reality at once presents
itself unto her mind. She sees him now..that kneels before her;
she feels her hands engaged and that too with a grip, which baf-
fles her efforts to disengage it; she hears the words, he still is
pouring forth.
"Light of my soul! I bless the day, that gave you birth, Dolores
queen of my heart!"
The immovable form across the way hears them too. His rigid
features relax and a bitter smile of contempt flits over them  He
turns-he does-he cannot mean to leave her, simply because a
poltroon, a miserable creature of a man has dared to benefit by
the commotion into which the very presence of the other has
thrown her. He turns, he goes!
"Charlie !"
A world of expression lies in that one, that single cry; but
Charles heeds it not. He does not even turn, a repelling motion
of his hand is all his answer. It rather quickens his retreat and
she sees him hastening from the ground, as if the furies drove
him off.
He is gone! but the wretch, whose work this is, still holds her
hand, still kneels before her. Ha! that is more, than she can bear.
For once her wrath throws off the rigid control, under which the
passioned impulses of her soul are generally kept. She feels, as
if she could raise her foot and crush him under her heel, as she
would crush a spider. Now she is strong enough, to free her
hand. A sudden jerk and she is loose from him. Her eye flashes
with a fire, that makes him drop his face.
"Wretch! miserable wretch!.am I sunk so low, as to have be-
come the sport of your whims? How can you dare, to offend my

DOLORES.                       333
ears a second time with words so full of loathing? Begone! be-
gone I say, or I shall whip yon from my presence like a dog"
How he shrinks under these scathing words, how he rise and
sneaks away. He is gone, but full five minutes elapse before life
returns unto the form, that stands with lifted hands and flashing
eyes, like an inspirited statue of Nemesis. Alas, the flash of wrath
has not only hit the offender,--.like a two edged sword it has pene-
trated her own heart as well. She is angry with the despicable
intruder, but she is more angry with herself, for granting him
the spectacle of her weakness. She is also angry with the fugi-
tive, more angry, than she ever thought she"could be at him
What! has he so little faith in her to condemn her on a
ances so trifling? Has he no more respect for her character and
taste, than to entertain the supposition, that she could lower her-
self to one like Richard? The more she thinks of it th
his flight assumes the aspect of an insult and in the first fresh in-
dignation she makes the vow of doing nothing on her part to
rectify the error. If he thinks her so low and indiscrete as to
be capable of throwing herself on a Richard's neck-well, let it
be so. In case of a voluntary return and confession of his fault,
she might endeavor to forgive hin; else--never.
We see Dolores could be proud, as well as Charles. Indeed a
character, that is a real cdaracter can hardly be imagined without
pride. Pride is the support, which upholds a noble soul in its
position and guards. it from becoming poluted by all that's low
and mean. Dolores was proud and her pride upheld her in the
severest trial of her life. No tear moistened her eye; keeping the
solitude of her room, she paced the floor for hours. Nobody did
see her do it; her door was locked and all day long nobody was
allowed to enter, but they heard the hurried heavy step in spite
of the carpet. At times that noise would cease and then no sign
of life was perceptible in the room. Dolores did not appear at
either dinner or supper, and all questions as to whether sh walt-
ed food to be taken to her room, were answered in the negative
She was not hungry she said, but suffering with a sick headache
she wished to be left alone. If her parents had known the true
state of affairs, they might have felt more alarmed and insisted
upon admittance, to offer sympathy 'and consolation; but as
Richard after his rude dismissal had hastened to show himself


334                     DOLORES.
in Church and as he took good care not to furnish his parents a
clue to the strange conduct of the girl, they acquiesced in her
refusal to grant adhnittance to her room, thinking that it might
really be a little sickspell and that Dolores as a considerate girl
wanted to spare them the sight .of any fretfulness engendered by
her headache. So the poor girl had to fight the first stormy
battle with her heart all alone. She had to struggle with the pas-
sion, which can either bestow upon us the bliss of angels or the
anguish of the doomed Her's was the latter destiny. The cup
of sorrow was full to the brim and she refused to touch it with
all the pride and energy of her soul. But the struggle was vain.
As hour after hour passed on, her energy began to fail, her pride
sank with it and then her head bowed down, her hands raised up
the cup and her lips drew in the bitter drink until it was drained
to the dregs. Then came the anguish and the woe ; the doubt of
a ruling providence, the despair of ever trusting human heart
again, the utter hopelesness of life and light and sunshine.
Night set in, but not the end of Dolores suffering. No sleep
came into her eyes that night and only when the sun rose in the
skies, inaugurating another.day, Dolores thought that she had
conquered and could venture to show her face unto the others.
She made her appearance at the breakfast-table with her usual
smile, but her face showed such a deadly paleness, that both her
parents were frightened. They knew however, that Dolores would
dislike to be annoyed, by any signs of their alarm and therefore
abstained from asking questions; but when breakfast was over,;
Mr. Fox took his hat and that of his foster-child and putting it
upon her head and tying it with his own hands, he said to her:
"Come, Dol; you and I will have a walk. It will do you good
after your sickspell."
And Dolores, who had thought herself proof against all tribu-
lation, was so touched by his act and words of kindness, that the
clear tears stepped at once into her eyes and made them swim.
She thought she had burned her heart with all its woe; but alas!
the human heart is a strange enigma. Some say that it may
break and I am not inclined to dispute the assertion. But this
I know, it is extremely hard to bury it and ignore its feelings.
Bury it as much as you please: it will thrust its shoots from out
the grove and bear fruit -with wonderful rapidity. [t may be

DOLORES.e33
wormwood and bitterness that grow on them, but live and feed it
will and any attempts to deaden it, will only increase its vi
So in Dolores'case. She did not refuse, nor did she
but suffering herself to be led into the park sho e consent
ness and indifference of a little child  But th pred  not re
sufficient scope, Mr. Fox thought, for a good faguidnoakian
such a one he wanted. Therefore tie passed thegate withher,
and turning to the right, manifested his intention of goinghpaer
the cottage. Then Dolores showed signs of lif   g   g past
"No, pa, not that way ! not that way !" she said-fe-
verish haste, that he was more seriously alarmed th  such aie
stopped and taking her ha    eweyalarmed than before. He
stoped nd  an  her head between both his hands, loe
searchingly into her eyes  T               shns looked
seachigl ino er ye. The same phenomenon! They sto
ful of tears in less than a secondsand thisnme  They  tood
welled up osrnlta        h , and this times the bitter drops
w       p so strongly, that they passed the brim and trickled
"Child, my dear good child, what  - the matter?" Mr. Fox said
in a voice that plainly showed his great alarm. "It is not sick -
ness, that lsyou aHasanybody dared to harm you? Dol, let
ty, father know, and rest assured, that you have all his sympa-
o       h    lp-for that may not avail you anything."
Dolores shook her head ; but Mr. Fox persisted in his efforts.
Q "If you refuse, to go that way, Dol--have you any objection to
the Opposite direction. You have not, well let us go towards the
t   t then; one way answers me as well,; as another. Perhaps
the sight of the ocean will widen your heart and induce
de your secret to your father.'y
He led her on in silence, until they had passed the  -l a
the bay and the distant sea burst into view. The sightage and
majestic ocean has indeed some soothing element  i
Dolores felt it. A deep sigh rung itself loose from  hr ippand
bosom and she leaned more trustingly upon her guide, thrse
had done before. Mr. Fox pressed her to his heart
"That is right Dol" he said with low and gentle t  c
true your caresses as an indication of your wish tons.de o
me your heart? Am I right?"                   unburden to
She nodded.
"Perhaps Dol, I can facilitate the matter, by meeting you half-

. 1


3$6                    DOLORES.
way. Tell me, has not the arrival, of Charlie Fuchs something
to do with your distress ?"
He felt her body shrink in his embrace. So he had guessed the
truth.
"You see, I was correct?" he said somewhat gayly. That is be-
cause I symphatize with you and comprehend you better, than the
rest. But now, make a clean heart of it Dol and let me know the
whole story. Perhaps I may help you after all."-
She shook her head sadly; but she struggled no longer and
gave him a sketch of yesterday's events. To do her justice she
passed over Richard's offence as lightly as possible and abstained
even from making commentaries on Charles' conduct. When she
was through, Mr. Fox breathed a sigh of relief-.
"Well, Dol" he said, "that is a sad story, no donbt of it and I
can imagine what you must have suffered yesterday. But then
the case is by no means hopeless and if you'll let me, I shall this
very morning go to the cottage and set things right. Now don't
you fear anything, child" he continued, when Dolores made a mien
to contradict, "your honor is safe in my hands, I can assure you,
and I shall neither say or do anything, that is incompatible with
it .I'll make what you might call a tour of inspection, that is, I
mean to stick out my feelers and see how matters stand. Nor
will I be absent long; but return to you and report, just as soon
as I know how things look,"
To this Dolores could have no reasonable objection and when
the two retraced their steps after a while, she felt considerably
more lighter hearted, than before. While walking Mr. Fox touch-
ed some minor points.
"I wondered yesterday at Charlie's absence from the mansion
and so did Mrs. Fox; but then your sickness was the all absorb-
ing topic of our thoughts and conservation. Now of course I
marvel no longer at his failing to pay us a visit : but I wonder
with you, that the rhetorical exercises of that jackanapes of a
sailorboy should have made such an impression upon his mind.
Richard is my boy and I don't deny him a father's feelings; but
when it comes to a comparison between him and Charlie, I know
well enough, how I would choose, if I was a girl."
This undisguised praise of her ideal added still more to the
reaction taking place within her heart. When. they reached the

DOLORES3
gate and there parted---she to return to th ho ,37
take the promised tour to the     ..e ou         h  od
with a smileta  a   onotg,-she could bid him good
bye  ihasie, that had nothing of constrt   i  t
CHAPTER XXXV.
APLENIPOTENTIARY.
Dolores went to her room and taking asa     ttewno
which had a"iwoft"          ndtkn     a seat at the window
which had ~a view of the park".gate, watched forhefaerse
turn. He did not keep eprk aewthe.o her father's re.-
tfrn houre d nothep er waiting long; for after the expiration
of an hour she saw him entering heprk   f isfceh      don
a bright and hopeful expression she would  his rn  d sworn
to meet hi afwy btta            e would have run down stir
tmethim half-way; but that was not tecs.Hsstirws
measured and i   on           a   ot the case- His step, was
meeting him, she keutenance serious, if not sad. So instead of
his arrival in the room er seat and with a beating heart awaited
hisarrvalintheroo.  he feared, he would be thehabne
of bad news and in that case shearedn would  benth. Nger
his step sounds on the stair-case nw  hear son ent. Now
has not been msae;hs-se; now, he knocks and enters. She,
has ot eenmistaken; his countenance is serioustogisex
pression is more puzzled thanounjeane  ie sees though its ex-
quiry in his daughter's eye, and ejected s toaxioussihn-
"Don't e sae D]       a   hastens to assure her.
seen, is calecaed, op at my phiz. What I have heard and
seene Nos caculated to upset the reason of stronger minds than
mine. Not that the aspect of affairs look desperate--on the con-
trary, I have the sincere conviction, that every thing will come
rto afer a w i;btiwllak      time, and I think you'll have
to make up your mind, to spend couple of weeks  youtla
your eyes upon your beau."
"So he refuses to acknowled
ask him ortr t      eI     ge his wrong? Father, I shal  ee
akhm to return to me. If he refuses to visit the mansion, he.
may prolong his absence to suit his pleasure "
lfr. Fox rubbed his hands.
"Spunky, Dol, spunky!  That's
girl gets spunky, there's little danger  o her Ii  it Whena
heart."                           of her dying with a broken
Dolores could not hell
out des could     - p smiling ; but getting serious again with..
ou  elay, she asked:                          aanwt.
"Father, you would not h
my love?"e                        ci    m   er
22


338                     DOLORES.
"Indeed I wouldn't Dol; but the puzzle is, Charles stands on his
self-respect as much as you."                     yu    Y
What?is he still inclined to discredit my or rather your ex-
planation?" Ia                                   sfra
paa  not prepared, to answer that question;in as far as I
failed to see him."
"He was not at the cottage then?"
"No child, nor in the village either."
"Father.!"
"Fow child, don't get scared. I told you, the matter, wasn't
as bad as it looked, and if you'll let me tell my story without in-
errupting me, I'll try to bring you over to my opinion."
"'ltynotointerrupt you father."t
"I'llrywe, o t When I got to the house, I found it empty
"Vite epon of Mrs. Fuchs, who had eyes, that were swol-
with fm exepin. Nevertheless she received me with her usual
lea from weeping-                    "
kindness and invited me into the parlor.
"Well," says I to her, as- soon as we were seated. "I see there's
trouble here as well as there."
"Yes Mr. Fox, we are surely troubled," says she; "but what you
mean by trouble there, I do not understand."y  "with a co
If you had seen my poor child justnand me without trouble.-
tenance pale as death, y  would yuou tule."
"But father !" Dolores objected; "how could you thus expose
me? My sorrow will be water in their mill."c
Dolores would occasionaly borrow a figure of speech from the
German without knowing it.le
"N v r y u f a, c id " M r.  Fo x  responded.  "W hen  I  we n
the, to be sure, I had resolved on ever so many measures
caution; but on seeing Mrs. Fuchs' sorrow, they melted like ice
in July, and I gave myself as I felt."  -
"Very well go on fatys I: she was locked up in her room all day
1ng eea     ever king food, never showing her face, never
Closing  an eye all night."
I saw Mrs. Fuchs starting with a look of wonder.
till at a loss to comprehend you, .Mr. Fox," says she.
"If she felt so sorry for what occurred, why then--did she-turn
the cold shoulder on my por boy for the sake of that. ..."

DOLORES.

C, flj

"Jackanapes of a fellow" I broke in, when I see h
"Exactly, that would be i                 see her hesitate:
4'i~acty, hatwou~l e a unccauntable puzzle, if it wasn't for'
the fact, that she never did turn h cold shoulderif im, either
for the sake of Richard norhanimthe
s. Fuchs got sonewat excitedly.
What sou ssshe, "can you deny, what Charlie saw with his
gown sound eyes?" t                                      i
"I repeat, what I asserted" says 1, "and if he ten     -
I can explain the mystery in asf              te s       t.
my augtr'   w   lp y i a far as I have heard the storyfo
mydughter's own lips." yfo
"Then I told her the story, as I received it f -
be d ncWhen I was through, I expected to see her rise and
Sir! and the like. But  end take my hand and cry: all right
Sird. ' She sat perfectly still  d girl, she didn't anything of the
before, ifathn prcy      an her face was a little colder than
beoe fanythi~ng."a
"M1r. Fo"sasse"tt'
tobro"says s        tat's a very nice stor, but I am sorry
1?b cmele to say, that it is nothing" but a stoy.
"Madam !" sasIashing u       "Dont        our rief to pre-
vent you from considering the ipr  scimputagftio."  e
"h am prepared to prove my word, Mr. Fox,"- says h  some-
wacoldly.                                   '     soe
"You would oblige me then b dn
"Then i'ta     fy doing it, madlam" says I.
"Thkendansteadfanswering, Dol, she pulls a letter from her
pocket and ndn s  it over to me. I take it and read it n t tel
knyou   isie hoestanr dI was exceedingly puzzled. I I didn't
knoapabulinsifepanyioutside, Dol and if I wasn't as sure of your
incapability of playing a double gm, sIa  o   yonfexist-
ence, I would have given in and tak  ses with them."
"but father, you terrify me! Where is the horrid wrti
pableof casting a shadow even between us?"ringca-
"No Do, not so" he cried drawing her into his embrace and
Peingisso er gbrow.mt did not do that, it couldn't;
fact nothing at all could ee  ota.S      td e     te in:
jsieof suspecting my position."-thin
"Forgive me father; but where s that paper?"
"Here child."
"What? oh father, that is my own handwriting
dary! I do not know, how it ever got into his hands.; but


46                     DLOURSE
out regard to that, this paper surely can contain no testimony
ou   e a d t  h t  h against  me."
100 s like it, Dol. Just read the last line."
Doloree turned the paper and read.
"Do I love him? ;Yo, I love him not.
For a moment she stood silent; then all at once a shout ofjoy
r     omeartinthrough the room, she knelt at a.
burst from her l   mpsa in g thandsunlocked a drawer. Taking
from it a book, she returned to her father's side as quickly  lighe
had left it. Her face had undergone a perfect change. A light
of heavenly joy streamed from her eyes; the color had returned with
to lips and cheeks with marvelous quickes ad aksenfo wthe
nervous fliers tried to open the book she had taken from the
drawer, she presetdapcues beautiful and lovely, that Mr.
Fodrared hardly breathe, unless the sound might drive it away
like the vision of a dream, from which a rude shock awakens us.
"See father" she cried here is the proof of my innocence. Not
tha I areso  uchabout that proof itself--my word ought to
-  that I care so much                    hscnutiadf-
 c manthat loves me-but it shows his conduct in a dif
suffice the ma      hat he did not act from appearances alone;
but from evidence, which might well stagger any man. Oh father,
J am so haPPY !"
"Well, well, ol I am glad to hear it ; but then I must confess,
th       somewhat curious, to see this puzzle solved. So far
dont understand much of it."
"Her ,  fa herrea.  Y ou  see, this  leaf  fits  in  this  place. Th
line that caused this serious comp  t     the bottom    e
*  on pag andrequires the reading of the top line of the next age
LLto complete the seise. Nowred
oWelchd let  see  foWebster is correct: I worship hira
and worshipld  lsve. Worship you can but idols. I worship
ndo or my soul and that is idolatry. Aye, aye, child, I never
theoht, totyouhad such a big heart in your little body, as all
thought, that youhasuhabg
- -that. I tell yon, Charlie is a lucky dog."
that.    lushed,  She snatched the book from him and said:
Dolores blushswoldevr avseend
"Mind, pa, neither you nor any body el.e would ever have seen
t wt         f it had not been necessary to clear m
rat wriingaio     But how did the leaf get ott of my drawer?

DOLOREs;                       341
Gracious heaven That thought involves such dreadful pass
bilities that I tremble to pursue it."=
Dolores had folded her hands while saying this, looking the
very picture of consternation. Mr. F x looked at her inquiringly.
What can you meanDol? Explain yourself."
No, father, please do not demand this. By obeying our in-
junction, I might rouse spirits            eyng yo     i
,.a       of  pc iore  aen.  revenge, to banish
would be more difficult, than to conjure them."
"Ihunderstand you, Dol" Mr. Fox replied and his face grew pale
"such spirits might indeed make sad havoc on our domestic peace
But are you sure, that the leaf was not loct by hazard ?"
"This very leaf, father?" she inquired with bitterness of tone;
t et it be so; yes let that be the construction we put upon
this strange occurence; else I might be induced to lose my faith
inhman nature, and curse my sex for  oagtgthswce
.race. Or better yepahrtib         ropagating this wicked
rac. O beteryet, father, let it be buried in Qbliyjon."
"Yes Dolores let us try it. If you, the deepest injured party
ean succeed, methinks that I so much interested in your  a
ous proposition should find no difficult  in doing i.
you show but little curiosity, to hear the con clusion of my story."
"Oh yes, I did forget, that you did not tell me all yet.  ou
ave fad to explain your meaning, when you stated, that Charles
was not in the village now."
"Yes, that is it. A bitter pill yet remains to be swallowed-
gu fter the happy explanation you'll do it like a strong coura
,geous girl."                              asrn     or
"Oh, father, you frighten me by such a long introduction. You
eantmean that any serious harm has befallen him."
"No child, I do not mean that. But read this letter it will e
plain the whole affair to you. I should hv  eiae  opti
in your hand under less favorable circumstances: ut a  ptt
stand, there can be no harm in it."
Dolores took the letter. It was but a short note and ran as
follows:
Dear Mother!
I send you these lines from the station. Ia
leave you for another short spell.  Burlesque  I am going to
When you learn all you will pdo    r n    wi tellyou wh
youlern ll yo wllpardon yonr unhappyv


6s

342

DOLORES.

All joy had vanished from the poor girl's heart, while reading
3ote.Ter started once more into
this short but to her eloquent note. Tearssn        e
lier eyes and for ten minutes she indulged in a good crying spell..
The great trial she had borne bravely; but under this compara-
tively light disappointment she gave away. So it is in life ; the
man that storms a battery at the head of a regiment often shrinks
from having his tooth-pulled. Mr. Fox let her have her way for
a little while; then he laid his hand on her head and said:
"Dol, dont be selfish. While you are crying here about your
love's absence a mother in her cottage not only mourns his ab-
sence, but also his broken spirit. Had we not better go and
bring her comfort.?"..
Mr. Fox had touched the right chord.
"Oh father, low selfish that is in me. Come let us go at once'
to aunt Barbara. She must not suffer a moment longer, than we,
can hel 'it."-
Mr. Fox nodded. They took their hats, and without stopping
gto enlighten Mrs. Fox, who being ignorant of the whole affair,
might well afford to remain so an hour longer, they left the house
'and struck the direction to the cottage. Never in all his exper1
enae had Mr. Fox been hurried over that distance at such a fright-
ful speed. He had to stop. about a hundred feet from the gate
to catchhis breath; but Dolores had no patience to wai
event.- The important diary in her hand, she flew along the road,
then through the gate, and over the porch into the hail, where
Mrs. Fuchs was just in the act of opening a door.
"Aunt Barbara!" the girl cried with joyous rapture, and throw-
ing her arms around the lady's neck, showered such a profusion
of kisses, caresses and flattering appellations down uponher, that
she could not have warded them  off, if she had been ever so much
inclined to do so.                     t 'Doloesat iast.
"Don't say word, before you hear me aunty, laiolores a
exclaimed, shutting the other's lips by gently layin hr an
upon them. "Come inI can explain it now, I can unravel the.
mystery into the brightest sunshine."
She drew Mrs. Fuchs into the room and then to a chair on.
which she compelled her to sit down without much ceremony.
Then drawing another chair to her friend's side, and also taking.
a seat, opened her diary and said:

DOLORES.

343

"Here is the passage, on whose evidence you condemned me
Read it again !"
"Alas! I know it by heart Dolores; what is the use of reading
it?"
"But here is the continuation of the sentence; read that then,
if you please."
"If Webster is correct, I worship him and worship is no love.
Worship you can but idols. I worship the idol of my soul and
that is idolatry.
Mrs. Fuchs stopped and Dolores looked with triumphant in-
quiry into her face.
"What now, aunty, mother, say, what now?"
Mrs. Fuchs looked bewildered.
"I dont know, what to say. This is so sudden a revelation,
that I can hardly master the powerful emotions of my heart. Oh
Dol, if Charlie could have known this yesterday."
"Or aunt, if I had only known, that this paper was in his pos-
session, I. would then laid aside my pride and come to explain.
As it was, I thought he condemned me on more trifing evidence
and I was too proudand mortified, to take the first step in an ex-
planation."
"So you did not know, he had the paper? How did you happen
to lose it?"
"Pst', aunty, ask no question. That question might open hell
and give its evil spirits liberty to haunt the earth. The paper
was in my drawer-it disappeared. Let that suffice aunty. You
understand me, don't you?"
"I think I do, child; but this is dreadful?"
"Never mention it again! Come, pa is on the porch; he came
along with me, but couldn't keep steps. Let us go to him and
advise'about the proper means, to bring back the run away."
Mrs. Fuchs humored the girl and soon shook hands with Mr.
Fox. She was like newly born, a very different person from what
he had found her on his first visit. He told her so and she re-
plied:ersanshr-
''Nod:wonder, Sir.  Th's  -rl       -
, S      is gil of yours is somewhat of a sor
ceress. She understands it, to make a person laugh and cry in
one breath. No wonder poor Charlie is so perfectly bewitched!"


344                    DOLORES.
Mr. Fox laughed and then gave the conversation a practical
turn.
"Let me see," he said "the next train for Boston starts at 12
o'clock. If we dispatch Mr. Burlesque all at once, he can reach
the depot in.time to take it. We can telegraph ot the same time
and thus prevent our bird from fluttering any further. In that
way we can have him here in three days at furthest. Mrs. Fuchs
can I have your horse and buggy to take Mr. Burlesque to-town?"
"Of course Sir's Mrs. Fuchs replied and left her friends, to get
Henry to hitch. up the horse and drive the buggy to the front door.'
When she returned to the porch, Mr. Fox inquired :
"How did Charles get off so quick? The lad must have dis-
played his usual'energy on that occasion."
"Well Sir, his trunk was still at the depot. He had not brought
it with him, because there was so much baggage on the train and
he would have been obliged to wait at least an hour for it. When
he left the mansion yesterday, he did not call here at all, but
going to the factory, got Mr. Burlesque to drive him to the depot
with one of the factory horses. You may imagine my feelings at
the reception of his note. I entertained pretty hard thoughts
about our little girl here arid came mighty near expressing them
too."
"Yes madam, I noticed something like it" Mr. Fox replied with
a sarcastic twinkle of his eye "but here is the horse. Thank you
Henry. Good bye madam, good bye Dol. You must go home
now and inform your mother. I know she frets about you."
"Yes father," Dolores answered, and while he drove off in one
direction, she like a dutiful daughter returned to the mansion,
after having said a warm good-byeto aunty Barbara.
On reaching the factory Mr. Fox jumped from his buggy and
entered the office. He found gloomy faces the order of the day.
"Cheer up friends !" he cried: "there is no more occasion for
making long faces. My little one loves your son and friend after
all. No, she doesn't love him, she worships him, the little ;ixen!"
Mr. Fox after giving a hurried explanation, continued: "Mr.
Burlesque, the train for Boston leaves in one hour: can you with
any further preparation go there and fetch -the runaway back?
The buggy is- at the door, and I can take you to the depot." '
Instead of an answer Mr. Burlesque jumped up and took his

DOLOREs.

hat. His employer had in the twinkling of an eye driven all the
gloom fromuhis.brow.
"I am ready, Sir!" was all he said. He was so joyous, that he
forgot to make a joke,
"Well Mr. Fuchs take care of yourself and the factory."
With this warning the two left the office, jumpedinto th b
and made the horse do-his very best. They were in time touggy
cure the ticket, and Burlesque sprang on tue platform of th pro
while the train was already moving.
Mr. Fox next went to the telegraph office. He telegraphed the
following:
Charles Fuchs Esq.. Boston *--Hotel.
All right!  Mystery explained.  Burlesque coming!  Await
his coming!                                EDWARD Fox.
Mr. Fox had done his duty. In a contented mood of mind he
resumed his seat in the vehicle, which had brought him and re-
turned more leisurely, than he had come.
Three days passed away. In vain the two families had waited
for a dispatch announcing the train on which the friends would
arrive. At last, on the evening of the third, Mr. Burlesque arri-
ved on foot and alone. He looked doleful and crestfallen  Mr
and Mrs. Fox and Dolores were at the cottage in search'of news.
All got frightened at the sad countenance of the messenger Tey
felt distinctively, that he was the harbinger of evil tidin s
greeted them with a nod of the head but without saying a word
Speak man !" Mr. Fox exclaimed; "don't stand like an owl!
we can stand the worst. Is he dead?"
"No Sir, thank God, it isn't as bad as that. This letter no doubt
will tell you all."
He handed Mr. Fox a letter addressed to Mrs. Fuchs.
"May I?" he asked, laying his finger on the seal.
"Yes, Sir, but quick."
Mr. Fox tore open the envelope and unfolded a note. It wasn't
much longer than the first one Charles had written to his mother
from the depot. It read as follows:
Dearest Mother!
When you get this note, I am on the ocean-.
A scream of pain and surprise on the part of the ladies inter-
rupted him. But it was not repeated. The suspense of what

345


346                    DOLORES.
else the note would yet reveal, took away their breath. So Mr.
Fox continued:..
. hardly venture to ask your forgiveness for so grievious an
offence as mine. But Mother believe me I could not act differently.
To return to Foxville and witness the happiness of a pair so ill-
matched would have been worse than death and sooner or later
would have resulted in death, his or mine. I did not know that
any passion could so completely over power me, but it is the fact.
My love for her has filled me so long-it was a feature of my
boyhood-that it has pervaded my whole nature. To kill it, would
be to kill myself. On going,  now to Europe, I do not hope to
forget her; but I hope that I may learn in time, to bear the thought
of knowing her the property of another, Oh! my God! of one,
whom I most sincei'ely believe to be unworthy of her.
At this period Mrs. Fuchs took the hand of Richard's mother.
"Pardon him!" she said with running tears; "he knows not,
what he says."
Instead of an answer Mrs. Fox embraced and kissed her. Mr.
Fox resumed:
....I am going to Italy. 'It will give me the shadow of a con-
solation, to visit the land, where the cradle of her ancestors was
standing. Give my love to my dear father-she will refuse to re-
ceive  it.  A s  so n a- a   e o t p o re s i   y m s  ifc l
cendertakings   scan r p      p1tyou will hear from your
und     n                                      CHARLES.
Dolores threw herself into the arms of the bereaved mother.
They wept together-the only comfort that was left to them.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
A DECEIVER DECEIVED.
It was a dreary life that now began in the two famnhes All
those joyous expectations, all those anticipations of delightful
meetings, of winter-evenings with plenty of light and warmth and
mirth-where were they to be found? The source of light and
life in the cottage was a wanderer in distant lands and the maiden
in the mansion-she once so genial and happy and causing happi-
ness to others-Dolores was only the shadow of her former self.
We do not use the word as a mere metaphor, for not only her
hilarity was waning---o,'the substance of her body too was wast-
ing and those lovely forms once so round and fresh, soon assumed

DOLORES.                     . 347
an alarming angularity. Her parents studied day and night how
to divert her ; but it was all-in' vain. She did not complain, she
asserted in reply to all the anxious inquiries for her state of mind
and health, that she felt well and was even comparatively happy.
But the experienced eye of Mr. Fox could not be easily deceived
and lie resolved to consult the family-physician before it was too
late. In order to enable Dr. Palmer, to advise judiciously, Mr.
Fox deemed it necessary, to give him an outline sketch of the late
trouble, thereby enabling him to see that the disease-if such it
was-had its seat as well in the mind as in the body.
Dr. Palmer shook his head.
"Medicine" "he said will not do the slightest good in this case.
It seems, Dolores has sunk into a state of apathy, to arouse her
from which is no easy matter, and may require extraordinary
means. I should advise a change of place and air, in other words
--travelling."
"But doctor how can we travel in the depth of winter?" Mrs.
Fox inquired. She of course had been drawn into the consulta-
tion and now advanced this objection.
"Well, madam, for the present you must stay at home, of course;
but I would make plans for the coming spring and set her at work
to think about and to prepare for it. In that wayou may give
food to mind and body in the shape of healthful occupation.
Only dont let her look in your cards; as soon as she thinks that
you are doctoring her your whole project will fail."
In obedience to these injunctions Mr. and Mrs. Fox resolved in
their mind a dozen different plans, none of which however hacl the
merit of particular feasibility. They were still torturing their
brains in this manner, when all at once a ray of light burst into
the chaos, which was as unexpected as agreeable.
When Mr. Burlesque returned from -his last and unsuceessful
trip-on foot, his heart and head as sore as his body, he had, be-
tween the factory and cottage,--met a couple of idlers, whose
comfortable look, sauntering gait and laughter contrasted too
strongly with his gloomy mood of mind, not to fill him with an
undefined but yet strong feeling of hostility against men, who
were so much better off than he. When they noticed and recog.
nized him, they thought it proper to moderate their mirth and to
look concerned to a certain degree. The reader will already have


See8                   DOLORES.
guessed, that the merry companions were nobody but Richard and
Henry. Burlesque answered their inquiries rather sharply and
turned away quickly, to continue his walk to the cottage; but
rapidly as his glance passed them, he could uot help noticing a
malignant pleasure in their eyes, nor could he help hearing an-
other outburst- of their ugly laughter, in which they indulged a
little too quickly from a miscalculation of time and distance.
The stirring scenes at the cottage which now followed had the
tendency ,of crowding this meeting from his memory for a little
while; but when the feelings of the inmates returned to their
wonted channel, the circumstances of that interview returned to
his mind-with greater force than: before. , Why. should these two
laugh at a thing, which filled the others with such deep regret?
Did their interest vary so much from those of the rest, to account
for such different manifestations? And if the sad misunderstand-.
ing was so acceptable to them, was it not possible, that they had -
helped or even planned, to bring it about?
Mr. Burlesque was alone in his office, when this question arose
in his mind, It agitated him to such a degree, that he jumped
from his seat and for more than half an hour paced the floor. The
more he thought of it, the more he followed the thread running
through the whole tragedy, the more he became confirmed in his
belief. Yes, these two goodfornothings had, for unknown rea-
sons, concocted the scheme, which had chased the sunshine from
two firesides for many a sad day, perhaps for ever. They had
concocted it-but why ? That was the mystery. Could Richard
really have thought, that the memory of a man like Charles could
be so easily driven from the maiden's heart? Or was there an.-
other secret'treason, which made him hope for success, where
others failed to seeit"-
Burlesque did not know; but he knew, that he might try to
find out and he was resolved to do his best, to fathom the mys.-
tery. If Dolores and Mr. Fox had reasons to spare thie criminals
-if such tbey were-Mr. Burlesque had none and when he com-.
menced his operations, he did it with the bitter resolution, to
wage the war to the knife and to draw the culprits to shame and
publicity, if not to the punishment their meanness merited.
He seemed to feel, that it would not answer to make confidants
of either of the families; but trusting to^ the resources of his

DOLORES.                       34g
mind, commrenced the work without outside assistance. These
resources were by no means despicable. His great experience in
acting characters of the most different kinds gave him a weapon,
which he handled with the most striking and--to the conspira-
tors-fatal success. At first Mr. Burlesque changed his conduct
towards Richard and Henry but little. He~ had plenty of time
and much at steak ; their suspicion once alarmed, the efforts of
months might not suffice to obliterate the injury occasioned by
the injudicious movements of a minute. Only gradually and im-
porceptible he -wormed himself into the good graces especially of
Henry and revived his old relations to: Richard,' as the former
was is danger of being inaccessible to any influence, which was
antagonistic liking of the latter. Strange! without knowing it,
Mr. Burlesque-.a second Charles-repeated a game, directed
against a Richard, which two years before another Charles had
played against another 'Richard at the very same place. For al-
though, Burlesque directed his principal efforts against Henry, he
did it merely, because he considered him an easier material to
work upon and judged correctly, that he could reach Richard in
that way as well and better, than if he had directed his efforts
against him in person.
Burlesque was a master in the art of dissembling. Guessing
correctly that Henry disliked his brother, he thought that nothing'
would more really engender a familiarity, than the pretention of
a kindred feeling, especially if it was presented as the growth of
time and in the light of confidential communications. Henry
took the bait and before three months were over, lie had changed
feelings towards the actor so much as to wonder, how he could
ever have disliked him. Besides hinting at Charles as an im-
practical fool, who didn't deserve anything better, than to wander
over the world, Mr. Burlesque gained by nothing a quicker and
stronger hold upon the younger brother, .than by the readiness
with which he connived at his -little irregularities. Not satisfied
with shieding Henry from discovery, he even lent his office and
his money, to furnish him and Richard with the place and means,
to indulge in those little orgies, which were totally out of quest-
ions at either of the houses.
At last the fruit according to his opinion was ripe enough to
drop into his lap. We find him in the office at the late hour of


350                   DOLORES.

8 o'clock P. M. The curtains are down; a pleasant fire in the
grate warms up the air and a couple of lamps cast their bright
light on awell filled supper-table. A white cloth is spread over
the furniture, hiding its rough workmanship and several cans of
oysters and bottles of wine promise an abundant supply of food
and beverage. Burlesque surveys, the whole arrangement. and a
grim smile betrays his satisfaction. He puts a case with cigars
on the table and lighting one himself assumes a seat. before .tha
grate, to give himself up to his thoughts. But he has not much
time for this, for all at once a couple of voices became audible
before the door; he hears feet knocking off the snow that covers
all the groand outside, and then the door opens and admits our
wellknown mariners.
"Good evening, Burlesque !" they cries and Richard continues:
"You have a develish cosy cabin here I tell you. Good enough
for a prince."
"Yes a fellow feels mighty good here after tramping through
the snow" Henry chimed in.
"You must be cold bdys" Burlesque said, "come to the grate
a moment and warm yourself before you pitch in. The wine is
a-little to cold anyhow. I just fetched it in."
The visitors followed his injunctions and soon the trio sat. at
the fire, engaging in a conversation, which for the sake of fair
readers we must suppress.. Nor is it my intention to accompany
them through their revelry. It suffices, if we notice them again
when their tongues grow heavy and refuse to pass the ribaldry,
which had been the order of the night. I do Mr. Burlesque
justice, he had found no pleasure in the pastime although the tine
was not far distant, when he had partaken in similar orgies as a
full partner and abettor. - In this instance nothing but the love
for his injured friend and his ardent wish to avenge his wrongs
could have induced him to go through the sickening scene of the
gradual intoxication of the youths.S
Now the long looked for moment had arrived. As yet the fel-
lows were talkative enough, ~ to babble out their secret; but
that mark once passed, the sleepy spell would set in and then
good bye ye revelations. So the actor commenced his operations.
"Boys" he cried raising his tumbler, "'pears to me, we h'aint
-.done half enough homage to the women. Our sweet hearts long

DOLORES.                       351
life! A rascal who refusees to give her nameand toast her. I'll
set you a good example boys. My sweet-love lives iu Boston:,
alas? the charming Windermere sheds her lustre now on luckier
fellows. Well never mind this to her memory lads, come pledge
a glass." The visitors were not slow to join him in the toast and
the glasses soundedmerrily amongst the shouts.
"So" Burlesque resumed. "I've done my duty now. Henry
your turn comes next."
"Lucy Fox then?" the young man stammered forth, "her health
for ever. !"
Again the glasses met with a zest that threatened their im-
mediate destruction.
"Ah ! does the wind blow from that corner, Henry? Your taste
is good and.your judgment better. A cunning rooster always
hunts for a warmly lined.nest. Now you, Richard, give us the
last but not the least toast. I'm sure you can have picked no
unworthy subject for your love!"
"I should think not" he answered strutting like a turkey gob-
bler, "what would you say, if I pledged you for'-Dolores, duchess
of Gatana?"
"Good, Sir, good upon my soul. I wish that milk-sop of a
Charlie could hear you now. The fool! So run away and leave
his sweetheart to his betters. Ha! ha !"
"Ha! ha! It's surely funny; but Burlesque you know he would
not have run quite so quick, if I and Henry here hadn't signed his
passes. But you havn't pledged me yet: long life to the duchess
of Gatana !"
"Here I go" Burlespue answered, "and I most sincerely wish
her chances for the title were as great as her beauty."
"Never you mind, Sir" Richard popped out, "that title is a
deuced sight better, than you think. Do you imagine, I should
-allow myself to be captivated by !a handsome phiz, if it wasn't
backed by a ducal crown and plenty of fields and villages ? Heh!
Henry! it takes a man to see the world to make him clever-
doesn't it old fellow?"
"To be sure it does Dick. You and I have our share."
"There! Burlesque: do you hear that ? Just come and pledge
a glass to Richard, duke of Gatana and his consort."
"I will, with pleasure Richard;- yes more- than that: I'il pledge


352                    DOLORES.
you even a visit, if that duchy of yours is anything nearer than
the moon; which, in truth, I fear it isa't."
"Isn't, eh? See here old chap, if you weren't so clever, a fellow,
I'd say, you were a damned sort of an unbelieving Thomas. What
do you mean Charlie, to doubt the word of a gentleman, like me?"
Burlesque took it all in good humor. It didn't suit him, to get
angry. Laughing at the other's pompous air, he cried:
"So far Richard, I havn't had a chance to doubt your word.
You have been joking and- I have given joke for joke. In reality,
I guess, I have about as much chance to be a duke as you."
"You have? have you? Supposing we take the thing from a-
practical point of view: are you willing to bet $5.00 on that?"
"Of course, I will and win it too. Henry may hold stakes;
here is my five-fork.out your money."
"The devil take me, if I have any; supposing you lend me
some; when I am duke, I'll pay you back with interest."
That's cool!" Burlesque said with laugh, "but I have no ob-
jection to that novel way of betting. Here Henry is another five
and now Richard, if you can prove the point, the stake is yours."
Richard laughed the coarse laugh, peculiar to intoxicated
persons.
"That money is as good as mine" he cried. "I hope you'll ad-
mnit Henry's testimony."
"If he promises to adhere strictly to veracity."
"Honor bright!" cries Henry.
"All right then! Go ahead Steamboat!",
"Very well" said Richard' interrupting the following narrative
with the drunken man's hiccoughs and numerous attempts, to
moisten his tongue, all of which interruptions will be left out for
the benefit of the reader. "Very well Sir, I can satify you in less
than no time. ' This summer, you must know, our' vessel put in
at Leghorn, to take in a cargo of goods-was that so Henry?"
"Just so.".
'-Well, after a hard day's work the Captain would often give us
men permission, to go to shore. Henry and I of course improved
such opportunities, for I tell you Burlesque that country beats all
the world for its wines and girls-don't it Henry?"
"I think, it does."
"One night we had loaded so mnuch,e that we couldn't get back

lOLORES.                       353
to the.ship, to save ourselves. The host of the tavern, where we
had ,been carousing, allowed us, to sleep   aernhee the
bar-room and when we woke in the morning  te benche to an
-Wither and commeined o agh-dd' nn we stared at one an-
,other n  omne to laugh-~--didln't we H-enr y?'"
"I guess so.
"There Burlesque notice what: he sa
Well,.after washing a little and ad'usting o s dreto the Ieto
Henry: I'll be dmeovradj          ingour. dresses,- says I to
Heny: 'llbedamnedc over and over again, if f dontbnfty
this chance, to see teconrovra           fIdnt benefit by
Thi chnce toseethe, country. Come let's make an excursion
for more wine and women."smaenexuio
"But the captain Dick ! says Henry- looking very wise-to do
him justice he can look wise on rare occasions."
"The deuce take the captain!" says I. "I'll  -
Just come along now."                      make it all igt.
"So we went. Leaving the city behind us, we struck a road
that winds through the hills to the interior, rising hi r and
higher and affording thousand beautiful views on the by and the
city;at our feet. To tell the truth, Burlesque we didn't care much
about the picturesque, Henry and I. Wqe wet din' re much
and I tell you we got enough of it, before we etune  e so
handsome lads you know, and such ah
never saw. The girls were just picking the bunches ine you
yards and I hardly knowwehre in the vine-
yad,  n Ihrl      now, whether we got more grapes, wine, or
kisses. We might have stayed all day with these bewitchiug Ven-
usses, if I hadn't been anxions to see more of the country.
we said good bye to them and climbed until we reached the top
of the mountain that girdles the coast. T e  read the
us hungry and tired; therefore we were glad to discover an old
castle at the roadside, built in old style t dis  a nts
and turrets. It was tolerable   ll e with ditches, battlements
anted, for an old man sat before the gate, something of a porter
we supposed and our supposition proved, somethi Weaskedhim,
whether le could sell us something to eat and drink
wer being in the affirmative we sat down at the bench, while the
old fellow got up to fetch us some provisions  d a  wle  te
In Italy they keep a mighty poor table I tell you, ttl of wing
is concerned, but as to drinking-by Jove the wine is fit for Gods.
Hunger is the best cook, they say and we eat thr        d
maccaroni of he castellan with a good enouah  drycrust s  in


'354 ~DOLORES.
moreover indemnified us for his victuals, for I swear, it was the
best we had drunk so far. It made us talkative and since the
eastellan understood french and we had picked up a smattering
of that language in-the french ports, -we succeeded first rate, in
keeping up a conversation. We asked him questions about this
and that and somehow or other-I hardly knew how it came up-
he told us the name of his master, the owner of the castle. It
was the duke di Gatan a."
"The dickens it was !" Burlesque broke out with sudden vehe-
mence-he had forgotten his role. Fortunately the vigorous ex-
pression suited the occasion; at least Richard took it in good
humor.
"Aha! you begin to smell a rat, do you?" he said laughing-
"Henry hold on to the stakes the old chap is fearing for his
money."
"It  gins to look squally !" Burlesque replied scratching his
ears and looking concerned. "But go on with your yarn-the
sooner I know my fate, the better."
"You can be accommodated my dear Sir; tho' as to the money
-you better make up your mind at once to loose it-it's' a gone
case."
"I'll see about that, when you have done. So go on."
-'Very well. I started when I heard the name and so did Henry.
We did start Henry, didn,t we?"
"Guess we did.,'
"The duke di Gatana?" says I to the castellan. "I thought the
estates of the duke had been confiscated by the government?"
"That was under the Austrian government in Lombardy, where
most domains are lying" says he, "but this war has changed all
that. We belong to Italy now, the possessions have been restored,
to the rightful owner."
"The devil they have! thinks I" may be the little beggar-girl at
home is worth looking after.
"But who is the rightful owner, Sir?". says I to the castellan.
"I thought the duke had been obliged to flee for his life and never
returned to his native country ?"        .     s    .
"You have been rightly informed," says the old man 'with. a
sigh; "it is a sad story Sir, and brings the tears into my old eyes."
"Have you any objection to telling us?"

DOLORES.                       355
He had none and we now listened to a well-known story. Of
course, what we knew already, hadn't much interest for us, but
we learned other things that were well worth the time we spent
on thexi. When he had finished I asked hiui:
"So the present Duke is the brother of the one who had to
leave the country ?"
"Yes Signor."
"And you never learned from him again?"
"No Sir, we didn't. To tell you in confidence, the present
Duke idn't over-exert himself in finding him. It was his inter-
est, his brother shouldn't be found and interest you know, goes
above: blood. But then it isn't my business-what has a poor
od man to do with such affairs?"
"Then if the real Duke was still alive, the
back to him?"                   aie h property would go
"No doubt, Sir."
"Or to his son, in case of his death?" -
"Why certainly, Signor, that's the law of the country."
Now for a question more to the point, thinks I."
"Signor Castellano, you are very kind to answer the idle ques-
tions of a stranger; yet I must ask one more: how would the
case stand, provided a daughter had been left instead of a son?"
"Of that Signor, I can inform you correctly," says he; "because
e archives of the family have a similar case on record."
"And that record--what does it say?"
"It gave the property to the daughter and the title to the uncle."
Then the daughter was not a duchess?"
"No, but she married, and the king graciously bestowed the
ucal dignity upon the pair."
"Then the husband of Dolores may also get that title?'' says I.
e old man jumped up as if he had been a man of twenty, in-
stead of carrying sixty on his back.
"Dolores!" he cried ; "what do you know about her? You lww
her name, you know her residence-oh make the last daysof;fan
old man happy by letting him partake of your knowledge
I had made a blunder--the smartest of us can makehlers;
-can't they, Burlesque?"
"Of course," the actor responded and there is reasawtQ, be1ievel
tt he said, what he meant.


356

DOLORS.

"Well, I had made a blunder, but I am not the fellow, that re-
mains sticking in the lurch as easily as that.  So I says as un-
concerned as possible:
"What do you mean Signor? I know of no 'Dolores'; only you
mentioned that name before in speaking of the Duke's laughter,
and I had recollected it."
The old chap laid his hand on his forehead. He seemed deeply
pained by his disappointment and, upon honor, I felt for the fel-
low, as I owed him some valuable information. But then,'you
know, I couldn't let him look in my cards. That would have
been absurd-wouldn't it?"
Burlesque of course agreed.
"I knew you'd say so. But that's my besetting weakness., I
am tender-hearted as a chicken-if I wasn't, I'd fare a great deal
better. But see here Henry, just fork over that money of yours."
"I protest!" Burlesque cried, laughing against his will. "On
what grounds do you claim it?"
Richard looked indignant.
"There now!" he cried; "that's just like you. You are the most
selfish old coon I ever saw. You were so in Boston, You are so
now, you'll ever be so. What? protest against my pocketing this
'well-earned money?"
"How well-earned, Richard ?"
"Burlesque, you mean dog! didn't I tell you a nice story?"
"Agreed!"
"Didn't 3 ou and I bet abgut something?"
"Agreed !"
"Henry, what was it about?"
"Damned if I know!"
Henry was very drowsy.
"That's a pity! But see here, 'tis all the same thing. I know,
I won and that ought to be enough between gentlemen."
"Well, I don't care, you may pocket the stakes; bnt you must
finish the story.''
"If that's all here it goes."
But the tongue of the young toper had by this time become so
beavy, that Burlesque could make very little out of his words.
Nor did he care. He knew enough and allowing the two revel-
lers to sleep themselves sober on the floor of the office- to which

DOLORES.

357

the law of gravity naturally attracted them, he blew out the lamp
and taking for his part the comfortable rocking-chair, studied o
the startling revelations of his former friend and boon compan-
ion, until his eyes also became heavy and he fell asleep-
CHAPTER XXX VII.
THE "GREAT TOUR."
Burlesque wanted to awake in time, to send his companions
home and remove the traces of their opgies, before daylight and
with it the arriving workmen would notice such disordcrs-and
he did awakb. It was not easy to rouse the others from their le-
thargic condition; but a few well-directed kicks and blows finally
answered the purpose and they rose from the floor, stiff from their
uncomfortable quarters and dirty like swine, that have wallowad
he mud. Their humor wasn't the very best, and instead of
taking the stiffness of their joints and the pain in their heads as
a very moderate punishment for their excesses, they swore and
cursed as if thereby they could improve their condition. Bur-
lesque however did not stand on ceremony that morning, after
having somewhat brushed their soiled clothes, he opened the door
acdgave them to understand that it would be in their interest to
reach their beds as soon as possible, in order to sleep away the
most striking traces of las  ight's irregularities. They were
now sober.enough, to see tl propriety of this advice and acting
upon it withdrew from the premises. Burlesque looked after them
with contempt.
"Go !" he said with a scornful motion of his hand; "I have
what I want and now throw you away like the lemon from which
the juice is pressed. Go, if there was anything of a redeeming
character in you, I might pity. But no you don't deserve even
Pity-you are fit subjects of contempt."
Burlesque followed them at break of day. He found Mis.Fachs
stirring. 'From her looks he saw that she was aware of. his ab-
sence as well as that of Henry; but before she could put in words
the indignation.filling her, he took her hand and said-'
"Mother Barbara, don't scold ; for I do not deserve it. Don't

U l


ask questions either and be satisfied, if I tell you that oneCharlie
is working for the other."
After those words he nodded and sought his room. There
he .remained long enough to wash and dress and leaving the
house, took the road leading to the mansion, It was very early
-when he got there and Mr. Fox, to whom he was announced won-
dered what so unusual a visit could signify. Yet he admitted his
superintendent and remained closeted with him so long, that the
servants had to ring the breakfast-bell half a dozen times with-
out his minding it. He accompanied Mr. Burlesque through the
garden to the very gate talking to him 'in such an eager manner,
that Susan and Co. racked their brains to know what in the world
such intimacy could mean. But Mr. Fox was deaf to all hints.
and inquiries on the part of servants as well, as inembers of the
family. After breakfast he went to the cottage, from the cottage
to the factory; from the factory to the mansion, and yet he merely
seemed to have'reached the latter place, for the purpose of mak-
ing the same identical tour over again.S
At dinner increasd curiosity on ths part of the ladies- impe-
netrable smiles on the part of Mr. Fox. Only at supper that gen-
tleman vouchsafed a gracious explanation of his bustle. .
"My dear" he said bowing to Mrs. Fox, "Children I have the
pleasure to announce to you, that on the first of March coming
we are going to start on the great tour. I have received informa-
tion of a business character, which makes my presence' in France
and Italy unavoidable. We have bg  talking so long about this
trip, that you may as well accompany me, for-to tell the honest
truth-I hate to measure all the omnibusses, railroad-cars and
steamboat-cabins of Europe 'alone. What do you think of my
proposal? What do you think of the prospect of visiting the
land of ancient lore, the Rhine, the Rhone and the Po, the Arno
and the Tiber?,,"
On the pale cheek of Dolores a faint color made its appearance,
the first time for ever so long. It didn't stay long either as if it
was itself frightened at its own boldness. But Mr. Fox had seen
it and Mrs. Fox had seen it and the latter, glad at her husband's
announcement on her own accord, was doubly gladonhperceiving
the animating influence, which the mere thought of the trip had
,on her darling. She entered with a lively spirit into his prop

338

359

DOLOBIWS.

' DOLORES.

sition and spoke with so much enthusiasm of the pleasure she
anticipated, that Dolores found it' impossible to harbor for a mop
mnent the idea, that the whole affair was merely a novel dose of
medicine for her debilitated system.
"And we are to start on the first of March?" Mrs. Fox resumed
for the twentieth time, "dear me, children what a short time, to
get our wardrobes all arranged. We cannot go without due pre-
paration and I may as well, tell our worthy husband and father,
that a deep grip into the purse will be necessary to procure the
.necessary outfit,"
"I give you carte blanche" Mr. Fox said with a grace, which
alas! adorns but few fathers and husbands and a more becoming
ornament, than which no lady wishes, in her husband or father.
Nor did the ladies in the mansion fail to appreciate such noble
generosity and after a long and animated discussion in which
even Dolores showed a more lively interest than usual, it was re-
solved, that two of their number should make a trip to Boston'in
the company and under the protection of Mr. Burlesque, who,
they correctly thought would be apt, to show them the best
-sources for procuring the various articles they needed.
Mrs. Fox of course was to form one of the two delegates, as
her experience on the realm of fashion could not possibly be
spared. But who was to accompany her? Both girls could not
well go away, as they could not think of leaving so generous a
father immediately after his manifestation of munificence. True,
de volunteered to stand the tortures of single blessedness
for a week or so, but they would not think of accepting his
:sacrifice and the problem was therefore reduced to the question,
which of the two girls was to stay at home? They rivalled iii
generous offers;. but for a while it was doubtlul who was to carry
.off the palm. At last however Lucy taking her sisters hand
looked in her eye with an imploring tearfool look, saying:
"Dear Dolores, for my sake, go!"'
Dolores was so astonished at this sudden manifestation of re-
turning affection, that for a moment she could do nothing but
stare at the other with mute surprise. Then however recovering
from her wonderment she yielded to' the impulse of joy, which
seized her .and throwing 'her arms around Lucy's neck, she said :


360                  ' DOLORES.
"Anything you please, Lucy. It makes me happy to accommo-
date you."
The parents looked on with pleasure, but they did not under-
stand, why so ordinary an event should be made the occasion for
a solemn demonstration.
The reader however does understand. In Lucy's mind the un-
happy issue of her brother's intrigue had aroused the most bitter-
remorse. As long as Dolores stood in the bloom of health and
pride and strength she had succeeded in hardening her heart
against her. But when the arrow had left the shaft; when it had_
penetrated to her heart and caused the poor girl to wilt like a
flower, at whose root a worm is gnawing,-then at once Lucy,
awoke from her trance. Even her slighted love, and a jealousy
so natural under the circumstances could not induce her to rejoice
at the sudden and fatal change -in Dolores' appearance. The
thought that this lingering wasting fever would result in con-
sumption and that in such an instance she might justly ascribe to
her agency the principal cause of her rivals terrible death.
But tho' these thoughts had been agitating her soul ever sinca-
the fatal Sunday, she had managed to hide every trace of her
emotions from Dolores; so that when her conversion broke through
the cover with the suddenness of a wildfire, the patient could
hardly be blamed for showing such little preparation. At all
events she quickly understood the motives of Lucy and helping
her to glide over the next hours with her wonted good tact, she
managed not only to keep their parents in ignorance of the true
state of affairs, but also to let the resumption of their former
friendly relation appear so much the matter of course, that they
soon ceased to wonder.
The trip to Boston was made, and such a great stock of the
most exquisite tissues of silk, wool and cotton, was brought back
that all the seamstresses of Foxville were kept busy day and
night, to sew the numerous articles of dress, which were to be.
finished before the first of March.
It was' indeed a busy time. Mr. Fuchs and Miss. Sarah Good-
man of course were not only consulted but even engaged for that
matter. Dolores' was greatly benefited by this bustle. She had
no time, and no place to pine and this healthy, unceasing work
around her gave a healthy tone to her weakened frame. True,.

D.OLORES.                      361
she was yet far from regaining that former elasticity of mind and
body, which had, been her principal charm; but the feeble glow
on her cheek became less shy,. and at last suffered itself to be
fastened there permanently.
Richard was the only one in the family, who did not share in
the-bustle or in the hilarity thereby awakened. Mr. Fox, although
he had promised Dolores to forget certain under-currents of in-
trigue, which had produced this deplorable condition of affairs,
found it a more difficult task, than he had imagined. At first he
had pondered a good deal on the matter and..received a tolerably
clear impression of the part, which both his children had played
in the tragedy. But while he blamed Lucy for abetting, he con-
demned Richard for plotting and in spite of all efforts he could
not force himself to more than an indifference towards the youno-
man. Even Mrs. Fox seemed to have an indistinct perception of
his perfidy and treated him less warmly than before and so lie
reaped in rich profusion, what he had sown with such great e-
pectations. His accomplice in the house--Lucy-shrank from
him because she knew his wicked intentions more fully than the
others and the company of the other-Henry-was no great
scource of satisfaction. On the.one hand the inmates of the cot-
tage showed too plainly how unacceptable his visits were to them,
on the other no real pleasure can ever spring from friendship.
based on sin, Such amusement is like the counterfeit light of the-
moon; it shines, but, there is no warmth, no animating clement,
within it.
Dolores-she, whom he had so deeply injured-was the only
person, who  now showed him kindness. At meals, at night, while
gathered round the fireside, she spoke to him and tried to draw-
him into the general conversation. But these efforts, so well
meant, had the opposite effect from that intended. Richard's na-
ture though depraved had retained sufficient elements of good-
niess, to be impressed and troubled by these manifestations of
generosity. Instead of benefiting by her kind advances, he shrank
from her touch, as if her hand.had been burning fire. There was
a great upheaving in his inmost being-hewent as it were, through
the process of fermentation. As yet the :drege were not th-rown
out-wildly the conflicting elements of his nature raged within
his heart, and no one could tell, which wo'ld gain the victory.


362                 .  DOLORS.
Indeed nobody knew and even on the approachof March, whey
the struggle was over, when the lees had settled and the heart of
the young man issued purified from the fearful struggle--nobody
in the house had any idea of his change. Nor did he tell. tem
he feared nobody would credit his professions, andon his depar-
ture to his vessel which fell in the week before that of the others
he took with himthe indifference of his family as a merited pun-
ishment for his deeds. Yet he was not hopeless. Through all
the tedious hours of his monotonous calling, he took the pleas-
ant anticipation, of a joyful reception after a long and earnest
probation.
A lively scene preceded the departure of the family. Business
had nothing to do with it, for Mr. Fuchs and Burlesque had long
before that time received full instructions and authority. But all
the neighbors came and said good bye; the inmates of the cot-
tage and the parsonage of course in the front ranks. Now the
popularity of the family could be plainly seen. If this tour had
been undertakenbefore Mrs. Fox' sickness, the demonstrations
might not have been so numerous and so lively; but since that
time the changed conduct of that ladyhad gained her a love and
respect as warm as that accorded to her husband. The principal
share however fell on Dolores, who was the idol of the village. If
I have-omitted to report the many acts of Samaritan kindness by
-which she had endeavored herself to the hearts of the people, the
readers must blame the narrow scope of this tale and not my dis-
position. They may be sure that such acts were ex eedingly n-
-,nerous and the fact that the villagers re'collectcd them after the
young lady's protracted absence at school, is an el.oquent testi1
mony in itself. During the late winter the poor child had not
been seen much; but the people did not blame her. They rather
pitied her and loved her the more for her distress. Somehow or
-other a rumor had spread through the place-it seems that peo-
ple have an intuitive perception by which they reach conclusions
-and that rumor was not far from the truth. Dolores and Charles
figured in these reports as hero and heroine, and Richard as the
*ogre, who by his wicked charms separated the lovers. Indeed the
young man was made to feel the aversion of the people all winter
and to the moment of his departure public sentiment condemned,
him by word, look and gesture. In large towns individual mi-

DOLORES.                       363
-quity disappears in general the turmoil or is neutralized by rank,
wealth or other influences; but although flattery and adulation
live in villages as well as cities, the vox populi is there generally
ess biased by outside circumstances.
At last the day arrived, on which the family of the mansion
were to leave. They were glad, when the last hand was shaken
the last adieu spoken, and the carriage took them from their home
to the depot. Nothing is mord worrying than this incessant leave-
taking, and however well the good.speeds of our friends may be
meant, they can under circumstances annoy us as much as the
maledictions of our enemies.
The depot is reached, the seats are taken, the train rushes them
to Boston, and in the harbor the "Sea-serpent" opened its hospi,
table quarters to the party. Staterooms having been secured be-
forehand, all necessary arrangements were completed without loss
of time, and the next morning, when the steamer began to drive
her mighty paddles through the water of the harbor, our friends
were on the deck enjoying the beautiful eurroundings and anti-
cipating even greater pleasures from the future. Nor were they
disappointed. Excepting a few squally days, on which sea-sick-
ness knocked of the cabin-door of some of the passangers they
were favored with the fairest weather and the nearer they came
to the coast of Europe, the more marked became also the approach
of spring. We cannot afford to accompany the family on their
tour, cannot examine with then the great cities 'of England and
France, nor follow all.their steps along the romantic Rhine. Suf,
flice it to say, that having reached Switzerland they ascended
higher and-higher, reaching the famous peaks where snow is never
melting, and thence descended into the classic vallies of Italy.
The whole company had' longed for that moment with a rest-
lessness, of which they themselves were probably ignorant; but
which had surely existed and in a measure deprived them of the
pleasure, which otherwise they might have found in viewing so
many beauties of nature, so many specimens of science art and
industry. But once in, Italy their movements began to be more
measured and having reached the Lago di Como, Mr. Fox rented
an old villa which was sufficiently well furnished, to permit a so-
journ in the fair season. The house lay On the fake shore, hav-
ing a magnificent view on the greater portion of the crystal sheet


I

364

DOLORES.

that washed the base of the rock, on which it was built. At first
the family missed the comfort of their home; for the nobleman in
Italy lives and furnishes his house often more plainly than the
American mechanic in moderate circumstances. No doubt the
villa which .they had rented, had once been inhabited by .one of
these nobles such as the-country even now abounds with, like our
forests swarm with locusts in years particularly favorable to the
development of those insects ; but the race-had died out long ago,.
or by some cause ar other been driven from the home of their an
cestors.--At all events, when the Fox' rented the place at an al-
most nominal rate, they found it, what in Foxville would have
been termed, out of repair. The windows had not only lost their.
shutters or jalousiess" as the French call them so properly, but
many of their panes in the bargain and when Mr. Fox called the
landlord's attention; to their defective condition, he received the
information, that this circumstance was rather an advantage as
the draft produced would mitigate the heat. The balance of the
house was in keeping with the windows, i. e. in the landlord's con
struction in excellent trim. For every defect he found an excuse,
actually turning it into a merit, so that on his departure Mr. Fox
could not. help feeling proud of his new habitation. Dolores
laughed at him, and that heartily, the first time for a long, long
time, and so pleased was her father at hearing this long missed-
music, that he declared himself greatly indebted to the landlord
and willing to undergo a second trial of his patience with even
greater meekness, provided Dolores would .re ward him in a similar
manner Our young friend had at once become of even greater
consequence in the house, than at home; for she alone was en-
abled by her knowledge of the native- tongue, to interpret the
wishes of the others to the numerous servants. Numerous tin-
deed ! Mr. Fox had engaged a host of them just for fun. There
was the buttler and the stewart and the master of ceremonies and
the porter and the male and female cook and a half a dozen.
waiters and the coachman and a half a dozen house-maids and
dear knows what else. The first memorandum of Mr. Fox dated
from Lago di Como reads as follows:
Engaged twenty-one servants to-day. Amountof total wages
equal to those of John, Jim and Susan at home. Was afraid to
have my ears eaten off at first, but they tell me, these fellows live

' D LORES.

3165

on air, flgs and water. If that's the case, I dont mind a dozen
more. It sounds kind of big, when I write, to the folks at home.
"We keep house now, with only three dozen servants."
But Mr. Fox wasn't through yet with his experience. Just you
wait a little while, my good friend and you will talk in a differ-
ent key.
Mr. Fox did not make great pretentious to style an,d clearness
in his diary ; therefore we must be cautious, not to treatour read-
ers wth too many specimens.. Fortunately a certain young lady
has resumed a habit she forme&amp;,at school and if she succeeded so
well in the prosaic state of Maine where anything bearing the
name of -spirit is under ban, we certainly have reason to expect,
thatthe classic ground she steps on, will inspire her with efforts
as god or even better. Let this be as it may, I shall allow Dol-
ores to tell the rest of her story in her own way, laying extracts
from her new diarv before the reader. However well we imagine
ourselves to be able to read our fellow creatures' feelings and
ideas, we can- surely not pretend or expect to be able, to know
them as well, as they do themselves. Acting on this principle
we copy:
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
THE DIARY AGAIN.
Lago di Como,
July 25th. 1859.
Here we are and quite.happy too. By saying we I include my
humble self-why should I not state it? Three months ago I
should have deemed it absolutely impossible, that I could call
myself happy. Indeed I sometimes.feel angry at myself for say-
ing or rather feeling .so-isn't-that funny!-unhappy .for being
happy. And what makes me so? Nothing particular but a good
many things together. He is not with us yet.; but I rejoice in
the thought, that he breathes with me at)east the same air. Mrs.
Fuchs got a letter from him just the week before our departure
from Foxville, dated Januar and marked Vienna, and containing
the information, that he intend to spend this season in. exploring
Italy. He must be here then, perhaps near!. oh, the thought is
beatif'ing and excruciating at the same time. Hoiw will the first


DOLQRES.

terview turn out? What will he say? how will he look? Has he
iothis mother's letter, in which she wrote him of my weakness?
Indeed no woman ever fared as badly as I! no woman ever was
required to cry to the four points of the compass: come loved
one! here I am. I love you, please requite my passion! That is
the world upside-down, the wooer wooed.
Now there! castles in Spain again! I trouble myself about
what may come and forget that the chances are in favor of noth-
%happening at all. True Mr. Ftchs has written to the various
American Consuls in the Italian cities and as every person has
to show his passe here, our agents may get a trace of the deserter.
But they may not for -that matter and just as. propably too, and
then? A blind travelling here and there, a chance crossing or di-
v  g of our trails--and more years of separation. But yet II
cling to hope. I feel as if I could not stand a second disappoint-
met as if my fund of physical strength became exhausted away
from him. That is not very flattering for myself; it rather hn-
-   -ilites me; it dissolves to vapor that praise, which insisted on
ing me an original character. Ah ! I am no sun; I am a moon,
b   a lane, that loses all productive power as soon as the
treat central luminary leases to throw light and sunshine on its
face. In the morning when I wako up and in the night, when I
retre, my thoughts, my wishes, my aspirations are Charles and
always Chre.'nta of counting the hours and days unid
weeks I divide my time in that, which I was forced to pass with-
out him and that, when my eye will first be blessed again with
his sight. Alas, not yet... .
.1 am in Italy,. my native land. True I have forgotten the
customss of my people; but I remember their language and now
whenoIsmove amongst our servants or the inhabitants of the sur-
rounding village, I hear their talk and listed to their words, as
one would listen to distant bells, carrying a well-known air sweetly
bindistinctly through the air....
.but  We have a     -ost ef servants and yet hardly any at all. I-
tlah at father for making that very same remark.
to ldo not know, how it is, Caroline," he said to mother this.
morning with a perplexed mien; "with all our help we are more
poorly served than at home."
"But I know why father," I cried, when ma did not reply.

"Let's hear then, Dol."
"The reason is, that we havn't all these servants but they sus-
tain that relation to one another. You recollect the story of, the
house that ,Jack built?"      .
"No child, I don't think that I do."
"What pa! not know the story of the "morn ad the prist al'
tattered and torn, that married the maid, that milked the cow
with the crumpled horn....
"Enough, Dol !" he cried with a laugh. "I know now, and
shouldn't wonder if you were right. But I'll be hanged if I hu-
mor-another hour the disposition of these, lazy fellows to shift
eir responsibility on each other's shoulderss..
Pa went out in a rage and I was highly amused when he con-
voked his host of servants, paid them their wages a week in ad
vanes and then told one half of them, that he would dispense with
their services. They all understood the. first part of the speech
first rate; but when it came to the second, papa Fox had to
secure my assistance, to convince these obtuse fellows of the fact
that i future we should be able to get along without their valu-
able help. I made them understand however; but such crying
and lamenting! such promises of doing better, such, invocations
of all the saints and higher powers that our cruelty would deprive
a dozen children of a chance of living! Fortunately Mr. Fox re-
ceived these lamentations through my mouth, else the dear good
gentleman would have been shaken in his purpose in less than no
time. But I becoming stern for once, bade them begone and that
without delay.
They obeyed, in fact they are like little children and so differ.
ent a set from our American servants, that one can.hardly men-
tion both in the same breath. It must be in their education, their
government, yes in the very air they breathe. The air affects me
similarly. I run about and spring and dance and chase butter-
flies like a perfect schoolgirl or rather an imperfect one; for in
America. a girl in the beginnin' of her teens would be ashamed
to cut up as [do. Indeed I ought to be ashamed too, for feeling
so jubilant, considering it is my duty, to be sedate or sad or even
miserable because he isn't here. . But then I do not feel happy
because anything is or does; but rather because something wilt
be, it is the anticipation of something coming, or somebody. com-

ti
( 6 --J

DOLORES.

X366.

367,


368                    DOLORES.
ing! coming! Indeed I shouldn't wonder a particle, if he would
step this very moment into my -presence. I can hardly explain
the nature.of my feeling; but it seems to me as if I see him with
a spirit eye, as if a spirit hand was going from my soul towards
him, leading him nearer and nearer, until at last he stands ii the
presence of' his happy Dolores......
This morning father is going to leave us for a while. He
is going to make a trip to Turin, on business he says with a mys-
terious mien in answer to our inquiries. We wanted him to take
us along, just to ,tease him; but no! he cannot make any use of a
lot of troublesome women on a business excursion, he says. Be-
sides he thinks we ought to rest a little, and keep the goodforno-
thing ragamuffins in a wholesome perspiration. They are just
learning to shift their feet he says and he wouldn't for the world
go through the process of training them again. There is enough
remaining to be done in that line heaven knows "he complains"
to make the thought of recommencing perfectly preposterous.
So we of course submit with a good grace, but then, being
women, we rack our brains in order to conceive, what business he
possibly can have in Turin. He looked at me wtth a much mean-
ing glance-can he possibly intend to make inquiries-concerning
my relations?
. . . .Father has gone and I made use of my increased leisure
this afternoon to make an excursion along the lake shore in com-
pany of Antonio, our servant. I wanted Lucy to go along; but
she excused herself with the plea of being busy. I think she
told a little fib though-Miss Lucy shares the aversion of most
her country-women to using their feet more than is necessary. If
we could have taken the carriage, she would' have gone along.
But no indeed, when I take an airing, I dont want the horses and
the coachman to share the fun. -I should have left Antonio at
home, if it had not been for the many vagabonds, that loiter about.
The war they say, has largely increased their number and that it
is -unsafe for a lady to go without protection. Mother insisted
on Antonio's going and to keep from alarming her, I yielded and
departed without discussing the question:is Antonio any protec-
ti ion ?
The, walk was beauliful; we followed the winding lake shore
and even now I revel in the recollection of so many charms. We

I

DOLORES.                      369
must have been four miles from home and that was, farther, than
I intended to go; but then one new point of beauty chased the
other, alluring me on and further on, so that at last it required a
firm resolution, to turn my head and retrace my steps. The lat-
ter expression is hardly correct tho'; Antonio told me of an-
other road, higher up the hills, that would take us home and al-
low more extensive views of the lake and the distant shore be-
yond. Of course, I told him, to lead me on to it, and in conse-
quence had two adventures, ore pleasant and the other rather less
so. After we had climbed a path winding up the hill-side, we
reached the new road and indeed were amply paid for our trouble.
The views lost the charming details of those on the lower road,
but they more than compensated by their grandeur and expanse.
Far across the lake a castle rose in the air with such a brilliant
whiteness, that it attracted my attention, and I asked Antonio
whose it was. He said, it belonged to the Duke di Gatana. Ga-
tana! what recollections that name awakened in me! My name!
If my poor dead father's patriotic efforts had been crowned with
success-how differently would my destiny have shaped itself! I
would now dwell in palaces, and receive the homages of hun-
dreds. I would be a duchess and wear a crown, a real crown, and
be admitted to court. But then, would I be happier? Would
I even now exchange, if such exchange lay in my power? Not I!
For it was the exile who found Charlie; it was the exile, that gained
his love and learned to return it, and for all the castles in the
world I would not sell the thought: Charles, good, noble Charles
belongs to me; he is my own, my property! a domain that no so-
vereign king can show! No! I do not want my duchy back, if, in
receiving it, I must give up my love.. Yet I should like to visit
that castle! I wonder, whether it is the one, in which my parents
used to live? I should also like to see the Duke, the new Duke;
for undoubtedly the domains of my ancestors have been bestowed
upon some faithful follower of the government.
These reflections and many more engaged my attention to such
a degree, that I stood some time-I do not know how long-gaz-
ing at the castle in -total oblivion, of iny surroundings. All at.
ouce however I was recalled to reality in rather a startling Inan-
er    fl   uAan            9fyp    skirt. behind me  nq hen
 turned abruptly torsee e red

/  ii 7X§ . . k"  f ,

;


370                    DOLORES.
looked right into a face, well calculated to create alarm. The per-
son that had thus rudely drawn my attention to himself was a tall,
wild-looking man with hardly sufficient clothing to cover his pow-
erful body. A low-crowned felt hat sat sideways on masses ofb
black, dishevelled hair, and a pair of sparkling and dismal-looking
eyes shone from under shaggy brows. I was frightened at is
s ht and my face must have betrayed my fear, for he smiled with.
a sinister satisfaction, which foreboded me nothing good.
"What do you want?" I asked him and summoned all the cour-
age I could command. At the same time I looked around for my
servant-he had disappeared.
My question spoken in fluent Italian seemed to startle the man.
He hadqunstedly expected me to be a foreign Lady, such as
ehundoubtregion in lare numbers during the fair season, and
it struck me, that I might get rid of him by feigning to be a na-
ive-which in reality I was.
The man stepped back a step.itof a
"Excuse me," he said touching his hat~ith the grace
grandee; "is signora Italian ?"
"Of course I am, my friend--what  makes you asks"
"I thought you were with the foreign family in the old castle."
"So I am; but I am not their daughter. I am an
an orphan too at that. But what do you wish of me?
I thought, it would be well, to invoke, his compassion, as cour-
age and pluck could avail but little against so powerful an adver-
sary. My manoeuvre had the desired effect, for the conduct of the
man became more and more civil, and touching his hat a second
time, he said:
"If you are Italian,madam, I do not want anything, except you,
you feel disposed to favor me with a gift. There are enou
eigners we can plunder-I am too good a patriot, to raise  y
hand against a daughter of my country."
"Then you are a brigand ?" I asked considerably assured by
his polite conduct, handing him at the same time my little purse.
He received it with a polite bow and slipping it into his pocket
Heid'     -J:t received 's4                   vowtn sMJon
a     aiuwe  .  ."tti~  s1i~r   ii     ,' *' , T   ,   ..

DOLORES.                       371
"And you are permitted, to carry on your dangerous profession
so openly?"
The brigand,-for that he was in spite of his love for romantic
names-the brigand, I say, shrugged his shoulders.
"Who will hinder us?" he said. "The hotelkeeper, the grocer,
the milkvender, the servant--they all follow our trade, robbing
the strangers all the time in the most legitimate manner-why
then forbid us the innocent pass time of robbing a little every
once in a while? In fact those noble confederates I mentioned
do not begrudge us the mite we take from their victims;-they
acknowledge our claims and as to the sbirri?--bah! I care that
much for all their enmity."
He snapped his fingers and I must confess, that I began to look
at the fellow with quite different eyes. I had read so much about
these brigands and their tincture of romance; but to read about a
robber and to meet one are very different things. I wanted to
benefit by this opportunity and ask several other questions con-
cerning their daring calling and mode of living; but my brigand
cut me short.
"Excuse me, Signora, if I must;refuse to converse with you any
longer. Although I despise the sbirri, one ought not to chal-
lenge fate. Moreover I warn you against myself. When I said
that I did not feel disposed, to rob a country-woman, I did not
know, that those superb eyes of yours are on the best way of
stealing my heart. I warn you, signora, to depart--Luigi has not
the reputation of being a very tame lover."
I shuddered inwardly, although I was strong enough to keep
up an outward appearance of composure. Thanking the ma nfor
his considerate treatment, I bade him good bye and pursued the
road, which, as I knew, would take me to our house. I did not
venture to walk fast, for fear, the brigand would notice unfavor-
ably my desire of escaping from his presence. Still the. distance
between us increasing gradually, I began to feel easier and to no-
tice once more the beauties of'the country. While thus engaged
my eye was all at once attracted by the sight of Mr. Antonio, who
followed me with such an unconcern, that, instead of getting
.ff"1Mbabyla-nghxaths

,l±
; t
. ,
' "  a
fit k.,


. DOLORES.

"What do you want here, Antonio?" I asked after a good spell
of laughter, summoning all the sternness, then at my command.
"Go home with you," was the unconcerned reply.
"What? after your dastardly conduct? I shall tell Mr. Fox of
your bravery and he will chase you from the house as soon as he
comes back."'
Antonio shrugged his shoulders.
"What do you want?" he said with the mien of an injured man
you dont expect me to expose myself to the rage of the famous
Lui"So you know the gentleman? Who is this Luigi?"
"The greatest brigand in northern Italy. Did you never hear
of Luigi?"
Forunately I hadn't, for if on hearing his name I had known all
the stories of that robber's gallantry, cunning, cruelty and daring
with which Antonio entertained me on the balance of our home*
ward journey, I don't think, I should have had the strength, to
reain t  composure, which, in connexion with my knowledge
of Italian, saved me from his hands. When I think of the whole
affair, I cannot.help remarking, that, if the American servants
excel the Italian ones, I see myself compelled- to award the prize
to the Italian robbers in preference to our own. I must laugh,
when I imagine myself face to face with the scum of society, that
represent the stealing fraternity of the United States. I fear I
would hardly have received from them an equally considerate
treatment. My brigand is surrounded with something like a halo
m                -though I am not at all prepared to assert,
tha polish and courtesy make vice less vicious. Perhaps they
may have the effect of making it less repulsive, and it is as yet an
open question, whether that is productive of better morals or
'worse...
woSnce.e above adventure, I am a little more careful in the
election of means, to gratify my passion for nature and its beau
ties. I do not go further than the village, where more or less per-
surround me all the -time, and when I have exhausted the
views which offer from the shore, I take the little boat and either
11n 'ther'S'               ts *mpanyrowte     y    9
the first time I feel the full importance of a gift like that. *E%7

day I fasten one or two sketches on my paper, and thanks to my
assiduity I have already accumulated a handsome selection. I am
now painting a view from my window in Sepia, as a present for
father, when he returns. By the by, he has been absent now for
more than a week, and we have not had the slightest sign of life
from him. I cannot help thinking of Mr. Luigi and his assocj-
ates, though of course I keep my thoughts most carefully to my-
self. It would make mother nervous and restless, to imagine her
husband in the slightest danger. Ever since that memorable.
sickness, she perfectly dotes upon him, and it is no wonder, for
he carries her always---so to speak-on his hands. Of course I
never told my adventure to her or Lucy, for reasons obvious--if
I had, they could not help sharing my thoughts.

CHAPTER XXXIX.
r JOURNEY AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.
Here the diary abruptly ends, for reasons, which the readers
may by and by discern themselves. Failing to gain any informa-
tion from our heroine herself, we can perhaps do nothing better,
than return to the moment of Mr. Fox' departure, and using our
free-pass as the author and his friends, enter with him the carriage
that takes him to the place, where a railroad facilitates a more
rapid journey to the capital. When we started, it was the hour
of morning, and when the steeples of Turin became isible in the
distance, another morning had just been ushered in. Mr. Fox
and his secretary were not overloaded with baggage, and so they
succeeded without much delay, in reaching a hotel. There, after
the necessary ablutions and a meal, which fitted them for busi-
ness, Mr. Fox sent for one of the waiters. When the man came
the guest inquired by means of his famnulus:
"My friend, do you happen to know, whether the Duke di Ga-
tana is in town?"
"I cannot serve yqur Excellency; but I can show your Excel-
lency his palace, if that will be of any service."
"It w1il answer. If you'll show us the palace, we can pursue
our inquiries in person. Where then, does it lie?"
"Your Excellency can see it from the window. It is across the

DOLORES..

373

-372 .


374                     DOLORES.
place: Does your Excellency notice that large building over
there?"
"Exactly.".
"Well that is the palace. If your Excellency will wait a few
minutes, I can easily ascertain, whether the family is in the city."
The waiter was already at the door overlooking the -energetic
"nevermind!" of Mr. Fox. To find out deserves a drink-money
and the waiter is not the man, to let the opportunity of making
an honest penny slip by, without improving it. He flies,he re-
turns, he is already back and with a quicker breath, that shows
the greatness of his exertion, reports that his grace the Duke is
not only in town but also at home just then and that his Excel-
lency will no doubt be able to see him if he will only take the
trouble to walk over.
After this announcement the fellow smiles and assuming the
immobility of a statue stands before his Excellency with out-
stretched hand, a living point of interrogation. The secretary
explains and Mr Fox puts an Italin coin in the hand. The hand
closes the head bows, the figure turns and the pattern of a lackey
withdrawskfrom the Excellency's presence.
"Funny people, these Italians !" says Mr. Fox, looking after the
waiter "but I have a notion to act upon the rascal's hint andsee
whether his Excellency will have the condescension-to receive us.
Come James let's make the trial."
James is one of those men, who living in a foreign country
benefit by their knowledge of several languages, to tap the pock-
ets of wealthy travellers by acting in the capacity of* interpreter.
Mr. Fox-had fished James in Switzerland, the great vortex, where
all nations send their- streams of travellers. Dolores had volun-
teered to perform the duties of interpreter herself; but Mr. Fox
had his own reasons for declining her offer. He wanted to ex-
periment on her chances for the dutchy and in case of failure hide
*     the whole attempt from her knowledge. Therefore he had suf-
fered himself to be taken in tow by Mr. James Fitzgerald, who
now in his company passed the square separating their hotel from
the.Duke's palace.
Arriving at the portal, Mr. Fox handed his card to a porter,
and was conducted into a kind of antechamber, to await the
Duke's pleasure.

DOLORES.                      375
After the expiration of a few minutes a servant appeared and
requesting the visitors to follow him, led the way into the interior
of the house and up a flight of stairs into the second story. Every
where marks of great wealth met Mr. Fox' eye and that gentle-
man couldn't help thinking, what a nice thing it would be, if Dol-
ores could all at once step into such riches. He was not through
yet with this pleasant thought, when the servant ushered them
into an antichamber and opening an interior folding door, an-
nounced:
"Signor Foggs and secretary !"
On entering Mr. Fox perceived a man, whose family resem-
blance with the dying minstrel and even with Dolores proved to a
certainty that he was the Duke. He was a handsome man of
about forty years of age and would have made a pleasant enough
impression on the visitor, if the face had not been too much
drawn into lines of haughty reserve and the eye had glanced
through the lids with less sharpness. As it was Mr. Fox was not
favorably impressed and at once made up his mind that with such
an occupant of dignity, nothing but rigid exaction and unbend-
ing firmness would answer the purpose. Therefore when the
Duke arose and saluted the stranger with cold formality, Mr. Fox
bowed to the host with a stiffness, that seemed to say:
"Just as you please, Sir. We in America can stand as well on
our dignity as any Italian Duke."
"Be seated" said the Duke "what gives me the pleasure of this
call ?"
"I accept your civility, for, what I have to tell you, cannot be
said in a second. I come from the United States, Sir, the asylum
of most of your exiled countrymen."
When this remark was -interpreted to the Duke, he started
slightly and his eye looked at the visitor with double keenness,
to ascertain whether his words conveyed any hidden meaning.
"Yes I know Signor Foggs, or Fuggio-or-"
"Fox, Sir."
"Ah! Foggs then. Your visit, I was going to say, has hardly
the purpose of manifesting your sympathy with those country-
men of mine?"
"No Sir, not a bit of it, not a bit of it. Or rather, yes I do
mean, to show my sympathy for one of them at least."


376                    DOLORES.
"Please explain Sir."
The Duke smiled a supercilious smile.
"Never you fear, Sir Duke, I'm coming right to the point. The
man I allude to, is nothing more nor less, than the former Duke
your brother."
Mr. Fox had the pleasure to see that his straightforwardness
was not without the desired effect upon the host. The hand,
which rested on the back of the chair from which he had risen,
grasped that back more firmly to hide a slight trembling and the
otherhand figeted up and down the buttons of his vest. He evi-
dently did not know what to reply and so chose the expedient of
remaining silent. Mr. Fox continued:
"I am happy to say, that the Duke had full confidence in my in-
tegrity and that he intrusted me with the keeping pf the most im-
portant documents. These documents involve the inheritance of
all his estates and you will hardly wonder, Sir, that I thought
best to attend to such important business in person. In other
words you see in me the deputy or plenipotentiary of the Duke,
to arrange with you the proper means of settling the succession
and other matters appertaining to his former possessions."
Mr. Fox had on purpose spoken somewhat pompously, partly
to avenge the Duke's supercilious reception, partly to impress
him with the conviction, that he had to deal with a man of con-
sequence. Nor did his purpose fail him. While listening to these
sudden  and unexpected revelations, the Duke had become
more and more pale. He had made no effort to interrupt the
stranger; nor did he speak at once after he had finished; but fi-
nally as if aware of the necessity of saying something in return,
he answered in an uncertain tone of voice:
"My brother-the Duke-I was laboring under the impres 'on,
that he was dead. At least my efforts to find a trac   ere
idled. I continued them for years and finally gave them up, be-
cause convicted of the utter hopelessness of their continuance.
So you bring me word from him?"
"Yes Sir, though a message from the grave."
"Hah! you trifle with my feelings Sir! Be.vare or you may
learn to your cost, that the Duke di Gatana is not to be played
with."

DOLORES..                       377
Mr. Fox remained unmoved.    Duke or not duke-that was
rather indifferent to his republican nature.
"You are mistaken, if you think, that I am playing, Sir," he
said. "I am in dead earnest. If the Duke is not living, his right-
ful heir is, and that is the same thing to all effects and purposes
-is it not, Sir?"
The alarm of the other began anew. Yet he tried more eva-
sions.
"Perhaps you are not aware, Sir stranger, that the domains of
the Duke, my brother, were confiscated by the government on ac-
count of certain revolutionary attempts of his?"
"I am aware of that and also of the fact, that the property was
restored after the war."
"And this son of the exile, this nephew of mine-where may
he be now?"
"You are mistaken again by imagining, that the heir is a son.
It is a daughter, Sir, and she has been educated in my house. It
seems that these communications are not very desirable to your
race; but I assure you, if you could see the young lady-the
most lovely and perfect woman my eye ever rested upon-you
would rejoice in the thought, that she is your kin."
The brow of the Italian cleared up a little on this communica-
tion. A girl! There was solace in that thought. A beautiful
girl! that was better yet. He had a son and by uniting the two
branches of the house, he might still retain the princely posses-
sions in his family. But that man might be an imposter. True,
an inner voice told him the contrary; but still he might be, or he
might be lacking the means, to prove his bold assertions. In
such a case, the Duke could easily maintain his position against
an obscure stranger and his ward. Yes it was worth the trial.
"What you say there,-Signor, sounds fair enough; but you can
hardly expect, that I should credit the words of the first best
stranger, who tells me of the discovery of a niece. I suppose you
are prepared to substantiate your assertions with sufficient proof?"
"That is, you suppose, I am not prepared;" Mr. Fox muttered
to himself; then raising his voice, he said:
"Such a supposition is entirely correct, Sir duke. I have with
me tha copies of papers, which prove the descent of Dolores be-


378

DOLORES.

yond a doubt. - Here they are Signor, subject to your examin-~
tion. Recollect, these papers are mere copies!"
Mr. Fox said this with a cunning smile, that showed plainly,
how little confidence he placed in the integrity of a man, that
manifested such reluctance to receive a brother's daughter, be-
cause she threatened to assert her rights. The Duke understood
it too; but he merely bit his lips and receiving the copy of the
documents ran'his eye over them with haste and eagerness. The
stranger was right. If the original papers were really in his pos-
session-and the knowledge of the name Dolores seemed to war-
rant it-it would be vain to show an open fight against such
proofs. Open fight! His mind dwelt on this thought, and in a
moment the duke had resolved upon a different policy. His fore-
head became smooth; his eyes lost their stinging sharpness; his
mouth was wreathed in smiles; and stepping forward and extend-
ing his right hand towards the stranger, he said with great polite-
ness:
"Signor Foggs, you have conquered, me. Will you accept the
hand of a man, whose duty it was to doubt, until convinced?"
Mr. Fox was surprised at this sudden change; but the Duke
appealed to his fairness and such an appeal is irresistible to an
upright man. So our friend without hesitation accepted and shook
the proffered hand, and in a few words expressed his satisfaction
at the other's change.
The Duke now invited his guests to a seat, and ringing the bell
ordered refreshments.
"You must really pardon my reserve, Signor," he said. "I am
beset by so many adventurers, that I can hardly be sufficiently
careful against their snares. But a fair man confesses his 'mistake
and I am glad to assure you that I am in that case. Here, sig-
nor, do me the favor to accept a glass of wine grown on my own
soil. If it isn't the best in the world, there is certainly much
that's inferior."
"It is excellent, Sir Duke. Permit me to empty this glass to
your health."
"Let us rather drink the health of her, whom I am now anxious
to call my niece. I hope you have not left her beyond the ocean?"
"No,' Sir, my whole family accompanies me on this journey.
You see, I reckon Dolores as a member of my family."-

DOLORES.                       379
"I doubt not, that she fully appreciates that honor. You must
at some more propitious moment tell me her story, which may
be romantic enough, I wager. At present I am impatient to learn
her whereabouts in order to procede to her without delay and of-
her an uncle's welcome."
The Duke spoke with such apparent sincerity that Mr. Fox suf-
.fered himself to be deceived. He shook the hand of the host a
second time and declared repeatedly, that such language pleased
him infinitely better, than the Duke's original reserve.
"As to the girl'.e said "she will be pleased, to receive in you
her father's brother. Thus fare she has no idea of the object'of
my tour. I did not want to subject her to any disappointment
in case of a failure of my plans."
"You are as wise as honest, signor" the duke responded warmly
"but you have not yet gratified my curiosity as to the where
abouts of my niece."
"That's true. We av rented a building on the Lago di Como
which they call the old cas
"Exactly, I know the place, as I have been negociating for its
purchase."
"Indeed signor ? Why I am lad to hear it."
"We are even neighbors" th Duke resumed. "I own a manor
on the opposite side of the  e. The white house is visible from
your windows."
"I think it is, Sir Duke, for I have noticed such a building. I
cannot help feeling greatly gratified at the issue of this inter-
view."
"You cannot be any more so, than I Signor Foggs; but it is in
your power, to gratify. me still more by granting one, request.
It is hardly meet that the benefactor of our family should
lodge in a hotel, while I possess a home to shelter him. Say that
you have no objection and I'll send this very minute for your
baggage."
"We have nothing but a small valise; but Signor-."
"No "buts" Signor, unless you want'to hurt my feelings. If
ever I visit the United States, I shall submit to similar arrange-
ents. Iiere you are my guest and must submit to the sacred
obligations, which hospitality makes it my duty and plauet
enforce.".                                      peauet


380

DOLORES.

What could Mr. Fox say against such generous sentiments?
He submitted and before the expiration of another hour he found
himself installed in a comfortable chamber of the dukal palace,
with-James as a companion, He saw with great satisfaction the,
princeysplendor of every piece of furniture in the room; but
fortunately lor his peace of mind he did not notice,how soon after
his occupation, a servant took his position near the door, looking
for the world like a sentinel on duty. Was he placed there, to pre-
vent them from suffering or from doing harm? There was an-
other feature in the Duke's conduct, which would havc alarmed
Mr Fox, if he had been cognizant of its. It was this. Immedi-
ately after the withdrawal of the visitors, theDuke had sent for a
certain Giacomo. The man had come and been closeted with his
for more than an hour. On leaving him he had pocketed
a well filled purse, which the Duke had handed him, and then
taken the direction to the depot. On arriving there he had in-
uired for the next eastern train and learning that an express
would leave for Venice in half an hour, had hought a ticket for
Pavia, the station next to the Lago di Como. These movements
as we have said, would certainly have made Mr. Fox nervous and
restless, if he had only noticed them; but fortunately-or ought
we to say unfortunately?-he remained in total ignorance about
them. He enjoyed himself highly in his new quarters and it must
be confessed, that the Duke left nothing undone, toentertain his
guest. He showed him all the- sights of the city and plunging
him fromeone amusementainto another, caused him to forget to
ascertain the degree, that an anxious family was daily expecting
his return or at least a sign of life. The conduct of the Duke,
made this seeming negligence somewhat excusable, day for day
after he asserted his burning desire, to meet his niece- and ex-'
presseda deep regret, that circumstances prevented his depart-
ure. He did not explain, how it happened, that these cir-
eumstancesdid not prevent his devotion to amusements of all
kinds; but Mr. Fox enjoyed himself, and a man that does, is
not inclined to be over scrupulous.

DOLORES.                       381
CHAPTER XL.
A COUPLE OF OLD ACQUAINTANCES.
While this was going on in Turin, a young man,-a pedestrian
-followed the mountain-road, that led around the western shore
of Lago di Como. The traveller marched vigorously in spite of
the hot sun and the hour of noon, which was near at hand. To
judge from the dust on his clothes, he must have passed over a
good piece of ground that morning; but excepting an occasional
lifting of his light straw hat, in order to wipe the perspiration o ff
his brow, he showed no sign of exertion, much less fatigue. When
he stopped, it was less for the purpose of resting, than of catch-
ing and fastening a delightful view upon his sketch book. It is
at such a moment, that he first engages our attention. He has
left the main road and climbing up a rocky cliff reached a plateau,
from which a charming view into the valley and lake, paid him for
the little trouble. A few bushes gave him shade and made super-
fluous the straw hat, which the artist had laid on the grass at
his side. A well-seasoned thorn cane with many knots protrud-
ing, lay beside the hat, apparently an .innocent, but yet efficient
weapon of defence. A glance into the young man's breast-pocket
would however have shown us the butt end of a good revolver, as
an additional protection, leaving out of account, the lithe athletic
form of the artistwho seemed as well qualified to handle the
cane or a sword, as the pencil.
.e drew a castle on the opposite side of the lake, whose dela-
p daed, weatherbeaten exterior made it a proper subject for a
sketch. After drawing the general outlines he looked more
sharply for some details and failing to make out one or two es-
sential features, took his pocket teoscope, to assist him. By
means of it he discovered various feaefgrsYoigo       h
porch or balcony and the sight seemed to affect him, for allowing
the telescope to sink and the sketch book to fall to the ground,
he let his head drop uponshis hand,which in turn was supported
by the elbow resting on the knee and-mused. His thoughts
were evidently of o melancholy character, for a deep sigh escaped
from his bosom. We are not able to state whether a second
one was on the way, to follow it; rll  o teolefu iss-
timer o, the yogun; man was interrupted by- suchAlou ,dissonant
sounds in his mnectte..nignbonooC,° tittt hwh1      eay


DOLM ORES.

382
sprang to his feet and seizing his cane awaited the further devel-
oprent of affairs. le had not long to wait; for a moment after-
wardspen ofies. of severlpersons breaking through the bushes
wpeard te bthe oen plateau. There were four of them, evidently
appeared on a terea  strife. The artist saw weapons glancing
inghei has bite daso saw that in regard to numbers, the com-
in their han b ueal' Three struggled against one and only the
bat was very unequand prowess of the latter enabled him to sus-
wondrconflict against such odds. For a.few moments the artist
reained conectr aite skill and strength of the man fighting under
suchainedvnuate seemed to make him forget his perilous posi-
stdi s But his enemies pressed him harder and harder and be-
sion.. Bcmin fatigued he was with every second pushed nearer
the brim of the plateau, which was abrupt enough, to make a fall
almost fatal. The artist hesitated no longer.
"Fair play!" he cried in Italian, but with a foreign accent and
jumping towards the combatantslet his cane describe dangerous
circles through the air. "Is it manly forthrhi a lesson in man-
Turn this way, one of you and let me teach
ners."
H dressed the assailants in such a manner, as to compel one.of
the   to turn against the new comer. The man did it with a curse
d  srining on him with the fierceness of a tiger, would have
andsp his dagger into the artist's bosom, if the latter's cane had
ot promptly stopped the dangerous movement. A rapid blow
snttedagger spuingthrough the air and the arm dangling to
tthe ipgPlanting a blow between the fellow's eyes, that betrayed
his anglo-saxon origin, the artist set his adversary completely
hors du combat atd was just going to turn to a second one, when
he saw, that the combat was already at an end. A second mem-
ber of the trio lay on the ground with a dagger sticking to the
hilt in his l reast and the third one only saved himself from the
fate of his companions by beating a dangerous and precipitous
retreat down the -cliff. The artist was in the act of witnessing
his descent, when the victorious combatant seizing his arm, drew
-                               ,,~heerio    ~     owJ'
=w  no   ssalflo  ++  ~rsi n. snxbs-onesi    fLi   itc
oulda noay. omed coe! we are ianger.             m
o d  t p y. C  e        ei   a m gardil   abaloa

i

DOLORES.                       383
"We?" the artist inquired. "I do not see why I should be in
danger.
"If you don't see it, take my word for it. You have assisted
Luioagainst the sbirri, and that is an offence, they'll never par-
don."
The young man snatched up his sketch book and-then suffered
himself to be led by his companion over a rather rough road deeper
and higher up into the mountain, until at last every mark of cult-
ivation had disappeared., The respect, with which the bravery of
his guide had filled the artist, had thus far prevented him from
making any remonstrances; but when the country became wilder
and wilder, and every vestige of a road or even path disappeared
it struck him, that it might be. prudent, to ask some explanation
from a stranger, who, though brave, might nevertheless be a
great scoundrel. In fact, the name of Luigi, which he had given
as being his, had no good sound in the regions from which he
came. The papers had been full with accounts -of a famous bri-
gand of that name, and from what the artist had witnessed, he
was well inclined to think, that this Luigi and the hero of the pa-
pers, might be identical. Therefore he stopped abruptly, and said:
"Mr. Luigi, that is quite enough for friendship's sake. I have
done you a service, and you repaid me by .saving me from the
rough contact with the police. At least you say you have, and I
shall take your word for it; but as to following you without any
guarantee or explanation, why, it is altogether out of question."
The Italian eyed the speaker with undisguised affection and
respect.
"I see you are a brave fellow," he replied; "or you would not
beard the lion in his den. Very few persons dare to speak to
Luigi as you have spoken-what would you do, if I should now
turn my hand against you?"
"I should endeavor to prove to you, that an America gentle-
man is at least as much of a match, as three-fold the number of
your sbirri."
"I know yoi would, Signor, I know it. But nothing is further
from my mind, than the desire to harm you. You have rendered
grateful. What must I do, to convinoEgy jigiy IO
h4t eIp et  deI -e,M  skv gye MrW nrri 8  idJe  J'Tae  d  r$.I i9


384                     DOLORES.
"By showing me the straightest road out of this wilderness. I
want to reach the next town yet before evening."
"That is impossible, Signor, for it is past 12 now, and the dis-
tance to Pesanto' is more than 20 miles."
The .artist suffered an exclamation of impatience to slip from
his lips. The brigand took his hand.
"Signor" he said with earnest supplication "listen to my prayer!
do not forsake me now! - I have so few to love and you by your
noble and chivalrous bearing have gained my love to its fullest
extent. Do not feel offended! do not laugh at me eitherf for a
man, who like me, has to associate so much with the scum of so-
ciety, feels the charm of an honest man's company stronger than-
that of handsome women. Grant me the pleasure of spending
a few hours at least in your company, so that in after years, I.
may say to myself or to the people : "I have seen a man!"
The artist laughed.
"Burlesque over and over !" he cried, thereby setting aside our
last scruple as to his identity. It is Charles Fuchs and knowing
that much, we may as well give him his proper appelation.
"Burlesque over and over!" he cried "and for the sake of Bur-
lesque I will grant your prayer. I am at your disposal, Signor;
you may do with me, as suits your pleasure."
Instead of all thanks Luigi took his hand and led him still deeper
up the pass, through which they had been stumbling; but after
the expiration of a quarter of an hour the path came suddenly to
an end. The cleft in the mountain grew much narrower and a
number of rocks having detached themselves from the steep walls
and fallen "pele-mele" into the pass, seemed to stop every advance.
But Luigi was evidently at home here; climbing over a rock now
and slipping past another, he finally reached a kind of kettle or
caldron, which for protection or seclusion could not be surpassed.
Besides a sentinel, which guarded the outer entrance to the
grotto, the place was occupied by about half a dozen rough look-
ing fellows, who enjoyed their leisure in'as many different posi-
tions as they numbered persons. The voice of the captain called
them suddenly to their feet; their eyes looked wildly and spite-
-hilly  ttimstrang4Wfvrmimmnthei 3 ap. airsh  ed: so gastu
1 gg[         yjtuidgi polkegiro' of( obC I  m Ji:dW .' sf_
"Brethren" he said "this Sign~fhia yrfriernd,'*yOl anderateda

DOLORES.                      385
what that means :. he is my friend. He is tabooed, sacred, invio-
lable. To touch him yes even to offend him is certain death-
you know me!"
The eyes of the robbers dwelt as darkly upon the stranger as
before. Luigi saw it. Not so much, to yield to them, as because
he chose td communicate the reason of his action, he said:
"This gentleman has saved my life. He came to my assistance
in a fight with three sbirri.  I came near being overpowered-.
you know what that means-I shall never become a prisoner."
Now a sudden motion came into the brigands. They ran to
shake hands with the stranger, and there was not one amongst
them, who did not offer him the free use of his dagger. Having
thus shown their gratefulness, the men dispersed, and Luigitook
Charles to a hut, which was well furnished considering the place,
and its occupant. Instead of wooden furniture, which the nar-
row passage made impossible, cushions and'-mattresses covered
the floor along the walls, and when Charles in obedience to his
host's summons stretched his somewhat fatigued limbs on one of
these mattresses, his head resting on a silken pillow, he compared
himself to a Turkish pasha, who prepares to give audience to his
eunuchs and the members of his seraglio. But Luigi showed
himself a good host in other respects as well; for fifteen minutes
after their arrival, a number of savory dishes stood before them,
to find which palatable, one needed not to be very hungry at all.
"You lead a comfortable life, Signor Luigi," Charles remarked
to his host, while enjoying his meal.. "These meats are well pro-
pared, the bread is good, the fruit is delicious, and the wine worthy
of a king."
Luigi shrugged his' shoulders.
"Abundance one day and want the next," he said; "that is onr
lot. You had a fair specimen this morning of the danger, which
besets us on our way."
"Then you do not follow a brigand's calling from selection?"
"No Signor, a wanton act of folly committed in the exuberance
of youth threw me out of my career, and compelled me to seek
the mountains. Such a life once begun is hard to quit again, and
I lead it as much from necessity as from choice, I say this unto
you, though I should be very careful, to hide such sentinreats
from my comrades."


286                    DOLORES.
"I am glad you have such confidence in me. To reward it, I
can do nothing better, than to offer you my assistance in begin-
ning a new, life. Go with me to my country across the ocean;
there, a man of nerve, will, and intelligence such as you possess,
cannot fail to meet with success. I am not without %means and
influence in my sphere, and what I can do for you, will certainly
be done.",
Luigi was moved, more deeply moved than he chose to show;
but the strong pressure of his hand and the sudden hoarseness
in his throat betrayed him.
"You are very kind Signor-I have not learned. your name.
yet?"
"They call me Charles ,Fuchs across here, which, in Italian-
would be as much as Carlo Fuchs."
"Well signor Carlo, I was going to say that I appreciate your
kindness from the fullness of my heart. The thought of going
with you is very tempting; but an oath binds me to my compan-
ions, which I cannot break, No, no, signor, I shall have to ful-
fill my destiny, which is the hempen rope or at best an ounce of
lead."_
"But would your comrades not wish to join you in so com-
mendable an enterprise? I extend my hospitality to them, prov-
ided they pledge to me their vow to become new and better men."
"I'll think of it, signor, and I will tell them. It is my duty to
hold out to them this chance; but I doubt very much, whether
they would like the proposition-they have,. most of them, sunk
too deep, to extricate themselves as easily as that.".
The meal being over, thc conversation stopped and the brigand
and his guest left the hut, to enjoy the delightful air in front of
it. While Luigi went to his men and spoke toqthenm ofthe gener-
ous offers of the stranger, Charles took out his, sketch book and
began to sketch some of the interesting groups before. him. In
Italy there is a certain romance, a vestige of nobility to be found
in the very 'dregs of the populace and if the painter wants a.
model for a hero, an apostle he seeks amongst the peasantry of
the mounains. Charles sketched with interest, the pencil flew
rapidly across the paper and he hardly noticed the return of
Luigi, who stopped oves his shoulders, watching curiously the
progress of the work.

DOLORES.387
'That is a strange art, you exercise  3.8
satisfaction, thus to be able to fasten the features musfb a  gre
or a",person on a piece of paper, to put them inur ocandpe
thus make te    orr      aet themhem in our pocket   and
thu mae temyour property, which you  an aeay       -lc  o
please. I have seen m        wihyouen take any place you
plese.I hve  eenmany men of your profession and always
envied but never molested them."s
Charles laughed.
"I thank you in the name of all   n        -
sel amnon. Iamaer   l   painters" he said though- I my,,
self am none. I am merely a poor amateur and not at all proud
of my ability to soil good paper with a fwpni   ak.
"Excuse me, Signor Carlo, for contradfW  you, mas."
erably good idea of an artist's touch   nythato s   bea t
stamp of geniousnotwithstanding your modest self-u deatinth
Will you allow me the les    igyu      oetsl-nderrating.
Wil yo alowme pleasure of examining the book?"
"Of course, Signor" Charles replied,at  th e book?"
him the secewihtebia              ,at the same time handing"
hmtesketches, which the brigand viewedwihedntpasr
and a god deal ofudrtni           iwed with evident pleasure
adagood   eal of understanding. Commencinghseaia
tion with the sketch just finished he-  facing his examina-
way gradually from theater drawingsto those of an earlier date.
Some drawings he recognized and h
at them, that Charles concluded that he could not be depraved
beyond amendement     A man, who finds  esure    deprave
templation of works of art an admits   pleasure in the con
still accessible to noble impulses. O nly   the  r h  ss is
lain is da  gis    h  prss      Only the low and* hopeless vii-p
liisdead against the spark of genius.
The sketchbook showed landscapes.
and amongsthlaerwso     s and faces in rich profusion,
amongst the latter was one, which made Luigi start. Yet he
bstraid rom a making any remarks until he had found the same
portra it on a dozen different pages and in avreyoatiue.
Pointing to one o  hen      agsadi a variety of attitudes.
Pintin oeof the numerous copies of this lovely face he
said positively:                                 1   aeh
"You love her!"
Tiis unexpected and direct remark h d
the young man. He blushed with a i      sty, whic   upones
us t tae th glw ofhisan intensity, which inclines
us to take the glow o his countenance more as an indication
of pain, than of bashfulness. At the-sm   ieama        rk
from his bosom, so deep, so plaintive same time a moan broke
her. With a tact innate in these people, he laid his had upob
Charles' shoulder and said:                      hand upon


- 388                   DOLORES.
"Pardon me Signor, I have hurt your feeling. If I had known
the effect of my remark, I would sooner have cut off my tongue
thmai made it."
Charles smiled painfully.
"Never mind Luigi, you are perfectly excusable. It is my busi-
ness to ask your pardon for showing such unmanly weakness."
"Then you love unhappily?"
Charles replied by nodding. This was the first time since -his
departure from home, that this subject had been: broached by or
to him. Carefully the feelings of his heart had been pent up, and
he thought sometimes that the moment was nearat hand, of which
he had spoken in the letter to his mother, and that he soon should
be able to write to her again. But now the wild uproar of his
bosom taught him differently, and like young wine in fermenta
tion, which threatens to break the cask confining it, the fulness
of his long stifled emotions forced an utterance. He rose and
paced the narrow space with an energy, as if he wished to bnrst
the rocky bounds, that hemmed his movements. Luigi felt ex-
tremely unhappy at this unfortunate occurence, but for full fifteen
minutes his guest refused to listen to his words. At last however
the first paroxysm of his grieflhaving spent itself, he returned of
himself, to where Luigi was sitting with a mournful face.
"Excuse me, my good signor," he said with an. attempt to
smile";- "this is the first time for a long while, that my sore heart
has been'touched. The shock was too much for me and you see,
that I had to yield.to the powerful emotions, which swayed me
like the hurricane sways a reed. Now it is over and I promise
you, to save you the repitition of so unmanly an aspect."
Luigi took both his hands.
"I feel for you; but I shall never recur to that sad face again.
Charles shook his head.
"There you are wrong, Signor. The first pain being over, I
wish nothing better, than to speak of her. Oh Luigi, there is not
one girl like her, in the world, and though she breathes thousands
of miles from here, and the broad Atlantic ocean rolls its mighty
floods between us, she attracts me as powerful as the pole the
magnet."
uii looked surprised. i

DOLORES.                      $8g
Charles nodded,
Then she must have a duplicate--Y saw this very face a few
days ago on the shore of Lago di Como."
Charles sprang up again, the prey of excitement--.-this announce-
nent was too much for his composure. But then he-Ybegan to
think, and'as the conviction seized his mind that the statement
of Luigi could not possibly be correct, he smiled bitterly, and
with a shake of his head resumed his seat.
"I am a fool," he said in melancholy tones. "I know she ' can-
not be here, and yet I suffer myself to go frantic by the statement,
that you have seen her."
"If I have not seen her, I have seen somebody, that resemble
her, like one egg the other., Has she not long black tresses of
luxuriant profusion ?"
"She has."
'And a high commanding forehead with arched brows from
under which a wonderful pair of dark-blue eyes are gazing with
high intelligence and just a touch of sadness?"
"You paint her to perfection," cried Charles, beginning to be-
come excited a second time in spite of his efforts to remain calm.
"I recognize Dolores excepting the touch of sadness you men-
tion."
"She may be pining for the absent one," Luigi said with a hope-
ful smile, as if he wished to encourage the despairing lover. "But
I have not yet completed my description. The lady I saw, was of
medium size and a model for a Pallas. Never before have' I seen
such perfect grace and stately dignity united."
"You paint vividly Signor Luigi. The lady seems to have made
a deep impression on your heart."
"She did, Carlo, Ican assure you," the other replied earnestly
"I had to beyhert'pd
wishes arisng hr mto depart, to save her from certain curious
wishes, arising in my heart."
-"Can you give me no nearer details? nothing,. by which an ac-
quaintance could identify her?"
"Of course I can, Dunce, that I was, not to think of it. I had
a conversation with the lady in which she told me, that although
she was with the Eiglish family in the sold castle--you drew the
sketch of it this morning, she was Italian by birth and an orphan.


390                    DOLORES.
Here is a.little purse she gave me-gave me, Signor, I swear it
by'the madonna-I could ,not have robbed her for the world." .
At these words. he pulled out a pocketbook of small dimensions-
and fine finish, which Charles recognized on the spot. Dolores
had bought it in his presence the day before her departure for
school. Every doubt was.at an end and the certainty of the close
proximity of her, he loved burst upon him, as the glorious sun
on a cloudless morning upon a dazzled world. He was unable to
think, he could merely feel and all his feelings centered and burst
outinto her name.
"It is her purse!" he cried, snatching it from the brigand "it is
Dolores' purse and I must have it, if you demand a price ten
times its weight in gold. It is Dolores ! here in Italy! near me!
r the thought is apt to set me mad! But now Luigi, good Luigi
do not delay. Come I must see her. Lead me to the road, that
takes me to her presence. Come, Sir, make haste, unless you
wish to see me dying with impatience."
Rushing into the hut, he snatched his cane and hat and then
coming out again seized the arm of Luigi, in order to drag him
to the entrance. The brigand saw the hopelessness of stopping
his impetuous demand and with a goodnatured smile humored
him to a certain extent.
"Signor Carlo" he said smiling, "I am ready to conduct you;
but you must give ne time for preparation. Recollect our en-
counter with the sbirri. If you fall into their hands, I guarantee
nothing. "Caught together, hung together." is the motto on
which the scoundrels act. No Signor, not so desperately fast.
"Boft and fairly goes far" is the adage and it is a true one.-
Therefore suffer yourself to be conducted by it."
Charles saw the propriety of these remarks; but he found great
difficulty to apply to apply them to his case. Yet he checked him-
self sufficiently, to allow Luigi time for needful preparations. The
brigand assumed a complete disguise and when he had donned
the suit of a peasant and stepped before his friend with cane in
hand, Charles had difficulty in recognizing the bold dashing rob-
ber in the meek, smiling nd. rather stupid looking countryman.
"So, now I am ready, to go with you; far you must know,
that I have resolved, to. see you safely to the end ofyour journey.-
Sshouldn't wonder, if the shirri wonld show an unusual activity

DOLORES.                       391
after that adventure of theirs and unless properly guided you
might easily fall into their hands. That must not be, if Luigi
can help it and therefore he will go with you. Now come along
Signor, we have no time to lose; if we want to reach the castle .;S.
before night."
Charles of coarse had no objection to depart. and so the two
retraced their, steps over the tiresome '.road, which they had,
pursued in the morning. As long as-, the ravine protected them
everything went well,. but on -reaching the margin- of the road
they saw theapprehensions of Luigi verified by the presence
of large numbers- of armed policemen,. who were scouring the
surrounding country in squads of different size.
Luigi laughed, when he saw them.
"The fools" he said, "they might as well hunt for a pin in
the Lago, as hope to catch me, by keeping to the turnpike.
But the truth of it is-they are afraid to venture into the moun-
tain-passes."
"But they will hinder us from pursuing our way?"
Luigi shrugged his shoulders.
"I see no other chance, than to wait for the, cover of night and
now across the lake. I have a little boat, that will just answer
the purpose. Water leaves no trail and I see no better way to take
the bloodhounds from your trail."
Charles fretted much at the thought of such delay; but he was
sensible enough, to see that Luigi counselled wisely and he finally
consented to the proposal, although with a bad enough grace
Fortunately-dusk was already near at hand and the hour of 'twi_
light being short in all southern countries, the prospect before
them was.less gloomy than it had looked at first. The hour of
waiting'was mostly-spent in silence; once or-twice a few remarks
concerning the old castle and its inhabitants were exchanged,
but the suspense and expectation of both of them were not favdr
able for an exchange of words and thoughts and Charles started
from a deep study, when Luigi finally said:
"It's time, Carlo."
Cautiously they crossed the road at a place, where it was
densely fringed with bushes and making a short tur any object
on it from distant spectators. Creeping- on their hands and feet .,
they descended the' rocky shore of the lake as well as they .could


~J~2DOLORES.
and finally reaching it undiscovered entered one of the' little
skiffs that lay ready for use along the edge of the water. With
gentle strokes they forced the craft into the lake and .the skill
with which Charles seconded the efforts of his guide, drew more
than one wordof' raise from Luigi's lips. So rapid was their
progress, that they reached the opposite shore before the dark-.
ness of night'had fully 'set in. The feeble twilight was seconded
by the moon,,which hadjust raised her first .quarter in the sky
and in that: way the inmates of the -skiff were enabled to reach
the beach just below 'the place, where the' old castle raised its
malls into the air
CHAPTER XLI.
ALARMING NEWS.
"INow go in, Signor" Luigi addressed his friend "and ascertain
how matters stand. I shall wait for you a whole hour until the
moon disappears beyond the mountain. If by that time I see no
sign of you, I shall construe it as an indication, that everything
is right and that I can return leaving you in safety. Farewell,
Carlo, give me your hand-you cannot imagine how much good,
your visit has done me and how sad I shall feel after your depar-
ture. - You cannot have mourned your love more deeply than I
shall mournmy- friendship." ,--
Charles was deeply moved,' in spite of the excitement of the
moment.
"You must not go,.before I come back to the shore to see you"
he said "moreover, I cannot think of leaving you in such .a hope-
less ,condition and before I go for good, I shall once more renew'
my offer. But Luigi, I fear I have acted like a fool and that my
presence in that house will be anything but requited. Tell me,
did you notice a certain young mariner in her company?"
"No, Carlo, she was alone and I know for sure, that no such
person'is in the company. I have a friend of mine in the castle,
and from him I know for certain, that the party-consists of the
parents and two daughters."
"Hah! that relieves me in a measure. I can now hope, that she
may have changed her miind, may have awoke as from a dream.

DOLORES.

I'll go now, Luigi-.-remember that I want to see you yet this
might."
Saying tiis the young man left the shore, and ascending the
:light of stairs leading to the conrt-yard, soon reached the open
:space before the portico. The place looked not only neglected,
but even deserted,. and for a moment the heart of Charles stood
still with apprehension, that the family he sought, had left. that
error however lasted but a moment, for all at once, he noticed
servants running to and "fro, as if"in a state-of alarm or-perplex.
aty. He entered, and tried to stop one or two of them; but they
were too confused, to give him very satisfactory information. A
vague fear took hold of him, and he resolved to push on without
a previous announcement of his arrival. Following the hall and
ascending a broad flight of stairs, he reached the second story,.
which was totally dark with the exception of one room, whose
.door was on the latch, thus .sending out a narrow streak of' light,
as the evidence of its 'being illuminated. This door Charles
pushed open, and he did not know whether to feel delighted or
alarmed on discovering Mrs. Fox and Lucy huddled together on
a sofa, with tearful eyes, the hopeless prey of anguish and con-
sternation. The sound of his footsteps attracted their attention,
and a ray of joy lit up the eye of Mrs. Fox, when she recognized
the visitor in the light of the candle. Rising and throwing her-
self into his arms, she cried:
"Charlie! our good dear Charlie ! At last a person, to whom
we poor frightened women can look for help and cbnsolation-! Oh
Charlie! how glad I am to see you!
Lucy joine4lin these demonstrations, but what surprised Charles
was, that they treated his coming as something entirely natural,
as something which might have occurred any day. Something
unusual must have happened, and his heart shrank with fear, at
the dreadful thought, which flitted through his brain. He had to
muster courage, to ask the question:
"What is the matter ladies? you are alarmed? Where are the
other members of the family?"
"Alas we do not know, Charlie! that is our trouble."
"N'ot know? Mr. Fox....
"Left us a week ago for a trip to Turin."
"And Dolores?"

a               -     '  ^Y7
3  ,              -
-.


394

S"Has disappeared since this morning. Our servants have been
hunting her everywhere, but thus far without success. Imagine
my delight on discovering your dear face, Charlie. I began to
hope again, for you love the poor girl and I know, you will leave
nfQ stone unturned tofind her."
Charles was startled, but yet relieved, He, had feared some
thing worse, and therefore taken comfort from his agreeable dis-
appointment. Still matters looked bad enough. Dolores lost since
morning! It was indeed fortunate, that he should have arrived
In time to begin researches with a.reasopable prospect ~of.suC:
cess. .But nota moment must be lost, and he led the ladies back
to. the sofa, to extract any information, that might have the ten-.
dency of leading him on the right track.
"Now tell me all about it Mrs. Fox" he said, taking a seat at
her side.
"Alas! I know but very little. This morning Dolores started-
on a tour of charity. Antonio, one of our servants came with a
message from a poor sick woman, living in one of the last houses
of the village, begging the signora, that spoke Italian to come
andsee her, as she had matters of importance to communnicate
to her. Dolores-you know how good she is-could not find it
in her heart, to refuse the woman. It may be a beggar in dis-
guise, she said; but again it may not. It shall not be said of me,
that I refused to comfort a poor creature in her hour of death.
With those words she went and from that moment my eyes have
been, deprived the pleasure of resting on her dear dear form."
"But have you not sent to the house?"
"Of course we have.- It was found empty, with its back door
open; and traces of, a. struggle;in the garden behind."
Charles shuddered.
"And Antonio?",he asked.
"Has disappeared as well as Dolores."
"And you 'have no idea, who can have abducted her?"
"Not the slightest. They say, there are robbers in this country.
and they may possibly have stolen, the child, to secure a ransom.
I have caused it to be proclaimed all over the village, that a hand-
some reward will be paid to any ~one, who can bring her back or
even lead to the discovery of- her whereabouts."
"You have done right, Mrs. Fox, and "all 1-expect of you is to

take heart. Don't fret dear madam, for I-shall at once devote my
whole strength to her recovery. But to begin atonce, I have to
leave you-will you pardon me for this seeming rudeness ?"
"Don't speak so Charlie. I would be the first to hurry you off,
if your own zeal did not drive you. Go my boy, and bring her
back to my arms, to receive the blessing of a mother. But stop,
do you know,'she loves you. Do you know that the whole un
fortunate affair was nothing, but the result of a mistake?"
"I did.not, and your words make me happy; but how....
"Never mind how, Charlie, do not now' stop 'for'an'explanation.
The lines you read had a continuation, to the effect, that instead
of lovingeyou,, she worshipped you. Sd, let that suffice, Charlie,
and hasten off. I shall be comparatively tranquil, now, since I
know you on her trail."
Charles pressed the hands of the ladies, and after a short adieu
left their presence. Pain and joy struggled in his soul pain on
account of the mysterious disappearance of his love-joy because
the sad doubt of hraendifference had for ever been dispelled from
his soul. In this frame of mind, he hurried down the steps to the
waer's ed, to rejoin the brigand, for he shared the idea, that
Dolores had been kidnapped, in order to secure a ransom. Her
ie would be safe in such an instance; but her honor!.-he trem-
bed at the thought. Luigi knew beforehand from h
eager step, that something was wrong, and when Charles reached
him, he was as ready for listening, as for acting.
"Now Luigi" the young man said in hasty tones, "if you really
Ialue my friendship and gratitude, you have a chance to prove it.
I have returned to my friends to learn that.the heart of Dolores
is mine; but also that some rascal has this very morning robbed
me of her person. Mrs. Fox thinks it was a robber and I am
inclined to share that idea. ,Luigi, if you really are the prince
of   se allows, you must assist me in recovering her person."
"Of that you may rest assured, Carlo" Luigi replied "but then,
such things.are rarely undertaken without my knowledge. I have
my doubts about the girl's being in the hands of robbers. Come
give me a connected account of the whole affair. I must know
all, to be able to judge."
Charles relatedall, he knew.

DOLORES*-

DOLQRES-

T394


DOLORES.
"Antonio, you said was the scoundrel's name, that disappeared.
with her ?" Luigi inquired.
"So they tell me."
"I have no doubt, it is the same fellow, that accompanied her
the other day. He scamped off, on seeing 'me, but I noticed
enough of the rascal's face, to set him down as a regular scamp."
"And you have no idea, where she can be?"
"Not yet, Carlo. Has she any enemies, who would be benefit-
ted by her disappearance?"
"Not to my knowledge; but stop, I may as well tell you her
past history. She is the daughterpf the duke di Gatana, who
had: to flee,, because he was'discovered in a-conspiracy against the
government."
Luigi listened. He thought he saw a ray of light penetrating
mystery;'but he said nothiug.
"The Duke lived an exile in America and when dying left his
daughter in the hands of the gentleman, who educated her and
whose family is now residing in this village."
And you say, he has started on a tour to Turin and not been
.heard of since his departure ?"
"So it is."
"Then. I understand the whole case. Indeed you would under-
etand it as well, if it wasn't for one Or two things, of which you
seem to be ignorant. Tell me, Carlo, you did not know, that after
the 'peace of Villa Franca the Duke's domains were restored to
his  fam ily?"  ...
"Indeed I didn't. In that instance Dolorese would be the right-
ful heiress."
"So she would and unfortunately, the Duke, her uncle, seems
to know it."
"But how ? I cannot see, how in the world he should have
gained the- knowledge."
You dont?" Luigi said with a smile. "And yet you are so
clever. But the fact is, we Italians are born intriguers."
"Come, come be' quick" Charles said impatiently "we have no
time for reflections."
"Indeed weavee" Luigi responded rather coolly. "There is
nothing 'like understanding. one's positIOR. Butl will explain,
listen ; Mr. Fox by some means or others learns the actual-state

DOLOiES.

of affairs and he comes to Italy, to push the claims of his ward."
"Ha! indeed!"
"He keeps her in ignorance, because he does not wish to raise
hopes, which he may be unable to fulfil. He rents this house-and
starts for Turin to see the uncle Duke."
"Do you think so?"
"I know it" was the calm reply. "Mr. Fox reaches the capital,
he sees the Duke and presents the case. He has papers--has he y
not?"
"Yes, the most conclusive documents."
"Very.well,;the duke chafes; but, he cannot save himself and
making a virtue of necessity, he plays the pleasant gentleman, the
loving uncle. Mr. Fox is invited to his palace; the place of res-
idence of the;heiress. is wormed out .of him, and while he is ca-
joled from one amusement to another, a confidential messenger is
dispatched to carry off the precious prize-,voila tout."
"By St. George ! I think you are right," cried Charles, rising so
rapidly in the little craft, as to come near upsetting it. "But to
know the trouble and to remedy it, are two different things.' The
hardest task is still before you."
"Well, I don't know. It is easier for a good physician to ap-
ply the proper medicine after a correct diagnosis, than for a poor
one, to find the seat of the malady. Every thing depends on the
doctor."
"That means, you have strong hopes of recovering Dolores?"
"Yes unless the duke has given her a pill of arsenic, or caused
her virgin bosom to be pierced by six inches of cold steel."
Charles shuddered.
"He would hardly venture to go to such extremes!'
Luigi shrugged his shoulders--he was very good at that-
"Friend Carlo, it is hard to say what such a grandee will ven-
ture for the sake of, rank and wealth. But let us assume the
more desirable construction and the question arises : where has
the Duke caused her to be secreted? Now, he has so many castles
that that question is a very difficult one."
"I see it is. Have you any idea?"
"I think I have. First .I ask myself the question: how many of
the Duke's manors are' available? next: how many are desireable?
In that way the large number becomes considerably reduced."

iZ              A-W
? -WPA


-"How many then are'available?"
"Two or three.",
"And desirable?"
"Just one."
"Ah! that does simplify our task, if you are correct in your
conclusion, which I, am inclined to think, judging from your other
clever deductions."
"Thank you, Signor."
"But where is this castle?"
"Just one mile from the place, where- you met me this morn-
Ing.
"That sounds encouraging. I can hardly understand however,
why the Duke should deem a prison desirable, which is so near
the scene of action."
"That makes it only more desirable in my judgment. Nobody
would expect the'victim so near the stage, on which the outrage
was committed,"
"Again you are right and you expect to be able to gain access
to this castle?"
"Carlo, I make it a rule-and to tell you in confidence, that my
entire success and reputation are due to this rule-I make it a
rule, I say, to have an accomplice in every place of importanceten
miles around. The castle in question makes no exception, and
there is no hour of day or night, at which I could not penetrate
into the securest vaults of that stronghold."
"Oh thanks Luigi! thanks for the encouragement you give me.
I shall never again rebel against your arrangement; but perhaps
you will allow the humble question: is. there anything to delay
our departure?"
Luigi laughed.'
No, Carlo," he said "there is nothing to delay it; but 'there
is much to prompt it. 'We must recover the body of the pris-
oner this very night. If the agent of the Duke gets only the,
faintest hint of our intentions-adieu the prospect of'success !"
"I am glad - to hear you speak that way, Luigi. I surely will
be the last one, to cause delay.- Let sit your oar-mine is ready.
Again the little craft cut the -glossy surface of the lake, this
time faster yet than before, as if the oarsmen- felt the value of
every second. When the keel grated on the beach they jumped -

from the vessel and without taking the. trouble of securing it
began th. ascent of the rocky shore, It was very dark now'and
without Luigi's perfect knowledge of the ground, they, would
never have succeeded. Thanks to his skill as a guide the
reached the road and even entered the racine which led to L '
hidingplace and stronghold. Here the walk became more and
more difficult and when the rocks began to obstruct the path
Charles declared his inability sf advancing without the tolerable
certain prospect of breaking his neck.
"I have thought of that, Carlo" Luigi replied. "It isn't at all
necessary for you to climb across. You can'stayahere and act as
sentnel and in less than 15 minutes,.'I shall join you with such
members of the band, I can command."
"Very well Signor !
Luigi proceeded and the time specified had not transpired by
several minutes, when the chieftain made his appearance with a
long string of followers behind him. Taking Charles by the
hand, he led him down the pass, until they reached the more open
but less safe highway. Luigi'stopped until all his men were col-
in a circle around him.
"The sbirri may be on the watch yet" he said "and in that ini-
stance we must be cautious. Don't use any firearms-in fact, we
might as well have left them at home, for all the good they'll do
us-but if cold steel can rid you of the vermin-use it freely.
You. all know the castle. We are going to take it from the front
iselmo is turnkey you know and will open, when he hears
signal. The rest depends upon his communications. I can eas-
ily instruct you, after I have spoken to him. Now, forward."
ently# and in single file the band proceeded along the high-
way until after a while a road branched off to the:left. -Thi
ey struck and pursued for a quarter of an hour, when a mas-
sive wall suddenly checked all further progress. Luigi extracted
a shrill sound from a little whistle and then 'stepping back into
the forest like his followers, he awaited the result of the signal
.ey had to wait 15 minutes before their patience was rewarded
Luigi had already pondered on the best way 'of forcing-an en-
rance when all at once a creaking ir the lock of the' gate be-
trayed the insertion of a key.. The noise then stopped again, to-
reappear at the hinges, on which the door was all at once swung

398,

9      _        ?                                   .     .tw                        -         Fq. fiF
.,4

DODDRES.

DOLORES,

399'


DOLORES.

401

open. A man stepped into the -road, and a moment afterwards=
-ug had reached him and conversed with him in low cautious
tones. The interview lasted about ten minutes, after which time
Lu'i returned to his men.
"Anselmo reports everything. favorable," he said; "and I hope
to be able to carry the lady off without discovery. Still we must
be cautious, and I shall place a guard at every door or side pas-
sage, we come to. If I tap a man's shoulder, he stands sentinel
until he is relieved by a second tap. Our parole is: "Dolores."
Any one coming and failing to give it, must be stabbed dead. D,
you all comprehend?"
'Aye, aye!"
"Foard then! Carlo, remain at my side, here is Anselmo with
the lanern. Take the lead my friend, we are ready to follow."
The turnkeyfentered the door, and'thecaptain followed, tap-
ping his next neighbor on the shoulder. The man stepped aside
and the rest closing up, followed their leader. The distance was.
l    and tp following tap, the squad of the captain became less.
r. o less, until only half-a-dozen-including the turnkey and
Chares~efthedthedoor of the chamber, in which according to-
cover. The turnkey stopped them:
"The e room is a double one, and the first one used as an ante-
chamber. I have not been in it, but if itis not.locked, we may
exet, to find a couple of guards in it."
e    tried the latch, and the, door yielded to his pressure. By
"tamnsofalsand overitheseo fellowsy with yourcovdaggerstudrawn.toIfd they
e latern  e isitslesaw  w  mn, l  gante-
les"taill don't hurt them; if they open teir eyes, let yur dag
ers do their duty; but well and noiselessly."
eThe men took their posts. Did a warning spirit caution the
thealighftedler? Nobody can tell; but so much we know;
thattey continued to sleep like rocks.aThetue wtun to athne
deseond dor; hrtthe emwasin they lokendeingeyslturour at ne

400

permitted the entrance of the room. The turnkey went first and
the others heard a voice saying :
thWhat do you want? Can you not even allow me the rest of
the night ?"
Charles heard the voice and recognized it. Once more his self-
control was on the point of giving way, but Luigi had anticipated
rtunately checked him in time. When the turnkey ste
ped into the room, the chieftain laid one hand lik rn   e
around the arm of Charles and the other gently upontayovce
man's lips. Thus he managed to impress on hin the necessity of
silence and checked the impulsive notionswihsie   h  oe
on hearing the long  mmu          smiwhich seized the lover
onhaig teon missed voice of his mistress. Bu   "oc  n
foot condemned to silence, and Charles centered all hi so ice and
hearing. He heard, how the turnkey spoke a few cautious words
and how the prisoner responded with an exclamation almost too
or the occasion. The guards at the beds grasped their da
gers more firmly; but the danger passed off without evil r
to anybody. Again Charles heard the turn       eviresults
likel tdrhkey whisper--he most-
likely waredifer against a repetition of such a perilous practice
-then two different footstes became audible, the one heavy, the
orwaihter, but both very guarded.  Now they steped into the
aehamroo   te h of the lantern falls upon, the intruderan
a new pst ! on the part of the turnkey is necessary, to stop the
laf t  rom     ntae same order in which it entered
A tap on a sentinel's shoulder, and he joined the procession as the
lsslastm n A t esagate  the  captain  halteda t ond  e t  h emot h rs
himrwhe c oted!mtoe maketurw tat onnehadbenfef
lefh~erham  vctmpap    eatriortenumbherwasn
complete.-                                   enme       a
"Anselod he saids; "you have become impossible here. They'll
a     o    a     g o-morrow morning, if they find you. Go
hlave your keys with Pietro, and then join us."
"They will change the locks, Signor."
m anot hl t. uDo as I tell *you. Now friend Carlo I    .
mredtocore tetyo      sr ta n       n
bein--                                     hd e26lf

DOLORES.


402rDOLORES
402
He led the way and the young reunited and therefore happy
followed. As yet they had not exchanged a singl   ,
but when the main road was reached without accident, Charles
oud no lohe mabstain from expressing by his voice, how happy
he was.
"Dolores!"
"Charles !"
A question--a short response!" Two words only and yet vol
f thoughts and feelings. They sufficed the happy couple
for the rest of the walk. When they reached the pass, Luigi said
to Charles :                          1foafecay.T
"Yu must accompany us, and stay with u, frafwdy.T
go to the castle now would b an ivitation to the Duke to repeat
his trick."
"But the law would uphold us, Luigi. Wc could have recourse
to the courts."
Luigi laughed.                                "btwt
"I    ot know, how it is with you across the ocean; but with
us the Goddess of Justice is only blind to the poor and the low.
For the rich and powerful she sees well enough. Take the word
of one that knows the country and loves you in the bargain.
Come share the safety of our stronghold or rather-let her share
4f, it."
it.'The latter hint decided. Turning to Dolores Charles said:
You hear, what this man says, Dolores: will you trust our
honor and your life into his keeping?'
I will Charlie, for I think, he means well. Indeed I have met
hi before this, and held him in grateful remembrance."
"Very well then, on we go !" Charles responded, and the whole
started up the pass. When they reached the barrier of
rocks, the first faint rays of the sun dispelled the deep darkness, ,
and.by the light thus gained, and the assistance of a anh  the
two fugitives reached the safety of the fort more easily than they
had expected-

DOLORES.

403

CHAPTER XLII.
A HAPPY MORNING.
Luigi gave up his hut to Dolores and the poor girl, whohad
gone through a sleepless night and anxious day, gladly benefited
by the chance of sleeping a few hours under her friend's protec-
tonhWrapped in a blanket, which Luigi had given him, he
stretched himself before the only entranceot tehu n"  hc
his regained-in a double sense rwegsinedtsepi
No slumber however entered his own eyes and with his hand on
his revolver he watched the gradual dawning of the day and the
awakening of Dolores. The latter occurrenehpendbfr
any of the robbers,-excepting the sentinels- e
first interview took place in that sweet solitude, which lovers so
 much covet. When Dolores stepped from the d  asaw h
lyn  nthe bare ground, a faithful sentinel, she wasmvdb
his devotion and believing him still asleep, she was on the point
of retreating to the interior of the hut; but     -
he showed his wakefulness and of course checked her retreat.
"Dolores!" he cried again, springing to his feet. "I can hardi
Sthe fact, that I am after all allowed not only to  y
you, ut to address you in this manner. I have suffered much
for yurehans east; but this moment, this blissful moment
more than repays me."
He had first seized her hand and then, becoming more and more
assured gradually drawn her into a fervent embrace. A kiss
sealed the union of their hearts, by which I do not want my read-
es to understand, that it remained without numerous successors
Not so, the contrary was the case; but the first kiss between
young lovers has something peculiar within it. It may be com-
pared to the breaking of the ice on swelling rivers in the time of
spring. The fetters once taken off, the liberated waters roll on
never ceasing waves until--the force is spent, that bore them
on. Alas! how often is this the case in married life, The reader
ofthis story was pained to witness an .instance of that kind in
the experience of Mr. Fox-let me now congratulate him, tha't I
am able to give him a sketch-merely a meagre sketch-of nobler
ove - of love happily united after a dark and threatening tem-
pest.
Dolores stroked his hair from his forehead.


404                    DOLORES-
"Poor Charlie!" she said witb. loving tones. "You look as if
ou had suffered; but I assure you, the storm, tha passed over
our devoted heads, has not left me untouched. I was sick Charle
very sick, they tell me."'
Ather kiss and a warm embrace were his only reply.
now drea    'l she resumed, "that the very words, in which I
o epes my love to you, should have been construed by
youasthedethw rrnt  four hope.  I suppose, they  have be-
you as the deathxann  ofo  n  kIsuy      ,ihyou were
foetisepaie oyou the mistake under which you wereplind o o
"Theyin ae oy hnted at it Dol; but I am ready to receive it
"4They have only hmne a      ethindue -me';I
all in detail now. In fact, I dend i as somthuiussuffering.
surely ought to be indemnified for my long continues  e
"There now! behold the lord of creation! As long as they woo
us, they petition,-but no sooner have they won us, than they be-
gin to demand. My dear Sir, do you know, that you deserve
punishment rather, than reward for having had sofromtle at
S      my good sense and feeling? moreover for running from us all at
such hot haste ?"
Charles laughed. It was the first genuine laugh fr many a
dreary day.4
"Dont blame all on the men, my dear," he said "you women
paint a particle better. First you attract us, the poor victims of
your charms and when you have secured the patent. of our pro-
tection, you become coy and deny where before you always pro-
mised."
"That sounds serious," Dolores answered; "and I begin to fear,
that there is no evasion from this trying task.' '
"Indeed there isn't, but if my shutting both my eyes will in any,
way facilitate the confession, you are welcome to so much of an
indulgence."
"Well, shut your eyes then; tho' I am afraid, you. can hear well
enough with your ears for tha+ matter."
'bo on Dol!"                                         .
"So you will have no mercy on poor me? Well listen then: I
stated, that I did not love you, because I worshipped you, ea
was pretty sure of committing idolatry with my eyes open. Thee
now ! I can never after this hold up my head against you;-,e

DOLORES.

4

05

cause if I tell you, that for some naughtiness or other I shall love
you less, you will not believe me."
"Are yo.u through now, Dol?"'
"Yes Charles I am, but don't open your eyes just yet, for.I am
still feeling the burning blush on my cheeks."
"But I think, that blush must be becoming."
"If you think so, I shall lay on my rouge ever so thick here-
yafter."k hre
"Just as you please; but may I open my eyes now? I can hot
stand this abstinence much louger."
"It is necessary Charlie; it will teach you, to shut your eyes to
my faults hereafter."
"Oh Dol, there is plenty time for that, when you get some. At
present I much prefer to look at your perfection. Just think, how
long I have been deprived the pleasure of looking at you at all."
"Yes, that is true Charlie; I see I have been rather selfish, for
I have denied you a pleasure, which I have been enjoying all the
time. You may open your eyes to their double capacity now, to
make up for lost time."
"Thank you Dol; I think that will do, especially since I have
been squinting at you just a little bit-a natural defect in my
right eye."
So they jested and laughed, as if they had been separated but
one short day, instead of many months. The reader finds it
strange maybe, but if he does, he can not possibly be a good
judge of human nature. Our deepest emotions are least apt to
reach the surface. The mighty Niagara does his mighty leap into
a precipice and produces only mist as the result. We sometimes
weep with joy and again laugh with despair. Great passions are
apt to make silent, and railleries are often used to smooth the way
to mutual understandings.
So with Charles and Dolores. While they indulged in their in-
nocent exchange of badinage, they were both of them inexpres-
sibly happy. They would rather not have said anything at all to-
one another; but sitting hand in hand, face to face, would have
liked to read from each other's eye the confession of love and hap-
piness. But the heart always labors under a diffidence, when first
the consciousness of mutual affection dawns within it, and many
innocent artifices are resorted to. to break the ice, and khad into a

y r rS YC  ,
a          /i
~h
-J
1
. Y
1

'     .         ..


406                     DOLORES.
natural even channel the emotions, which make the heart beat.
wildly against the breast, and threaten to upset all the habits and
feelings of our former life.
Gradually however another chord of their hearts was struck
They related to each other the sad experience of their separation
and approaching the present time, indulged in speculations of
what the future would bring.
"By the bye, Dol, did Mr. Fox ever intimate any special reason.
for visiting Italy?" Charles inquired in the course of their con-
versation.
"No Charles, but he dropped mysterious hints; especially on
hi deatr   'o u~n     I shouldn't wonder, if he were hunting
for some relatives of mine, intending to surprise me with their
discovery and not before."
"Sagacious as ever, Dol, only you didn't hittthe nail in the
tre. Under other circumstances I should not spoil his calcula-
tion by informing you; but as matters stand, it is my imperious.
duty. Say Dol, have you any idea, from whose hands we liberated
you?"
"No Charles, I had no chance to find out. When they seized
me yesterday in the hut, to which they had allured me under false
pretenses, they put a veil over my face and throwing me into a.
carriage, drove away at a great speed. We continued on the way
all day and a portion of the night, and when I now consider the
short distance from this place to the castle across the lake, I can-
not help thinking, that they have taken me here and there in
order to create in me the thought, that I was far away from my
people and consequently entirely in the power of my captors
You see therefore, that I had no chance in forming any guess at
their character. Indeed I sometimes thought, that theylwere rob-
bhers and I even wronged our good host by believing him to be
implicated in the attempt;obut, although I am now fully con.
vneed of his innocence, I am as much at a loss, to divine the.
character -of my kidnappers, as ever."
"I do not wonder Dol. Mrs. Fox entertained the same thought.
The truth is too disgusting to entertain, at least for an American
mind; although such things are common enough here, if what
Luigi says, is true."

DOLORES.

407

"But Charlie, what do you mean? You seem to wish to pre-
pare me for something horrible."
"Indeed I do; or don't you think it horrible, that an uncle
should cause his brother's child to be kidiiapp ed, as soon as he
learns of her existence and arrival?"
"My uncle! my father's brother !"
"Nobody else. It was from the castle of the Duke di Gatana
that we liberated you."
Dolores hung her head.
"Oh, my glorious anticipations !" she crisd "where are they?
The stranger's land has nursed and educated me and my native
country puts the adder in my way, to sting my foot, in crossing
. er .byryro soingCmrfoo,                    i  rsig
its very border.. Come Charlie, let us flee a country, where that
is possible! Let us return to America where people under a cold
surface preserve a warm and feeling heart !"
"I have no objection to that, Dolores; indeed it is my wish that
it should be done;-btonteohY
but on the other hand I must caution you, not
to coademnn this land for the meanness of an individual. You re-
collect that in America you found bad persons on your path of
life, as well as virtuous ones and if you draw the balance, it is
very doubtful which side will preponderate."
"You may be right, Charlie ; but what object could the Duke
have had, to thus persecute me ?"
"Can you not guess Dolores? By the peace of Villa Franca
the domains of your father have been restored -to your famil
and you being the rightful heir, the Duke naturally-pardon me,
I meant unnaturally---tried to get you in his possession."
"Ah, now I understand many things, which were a mystery to
me before. My father heard of this at home and planned the
trip, to secure my claims."
"At least I think so. Maybe he wished at the same time to
improve your health and quicken our reunion.
"Good dear father. But I do not covet wealth and rank, that
is associated with such danger. If you love me Charles, let us
return toMaine, where nature is cold, but the hearts of the peo
ple are warm."
"You express my sentiments, Dol; but just at present we can-
not well depart. You forget, that Mr. Fox has not yet returned


408                     DOLORES.
from Turin. I should not wonder much, if he too was in the
power of the Duke."
"Yes, indeed! His journey had escaped me; but it is no won-
der Charlie. The last few days have stormed over me so wildly
and have filled me with so many conflicting feelings, that it is but
natural to get confused. So you think, that father went to see
the Duke?"
"Nosdoubt about it Dol and in his innocence, Mr. Fox betrayed
the secret of your place of residence."
"But what is to be done Charlie? I must confess, I am at a
loss, to conceive a plan, that will at all answer the purpose."
"Well I have one, Dol, that I think will answer This morning
while watching on the sill or the hut, I had plenty time to think
and improving my opportunity I managed to concoct a plan, that
will at once end our dilemma and changing us from the agressed
into the party that's aggressing, sec ure us the advantages of the
latter."
"Ah Charlie, you contemplate new struggles then. If my voice
is heard, we shall embark without delay and leave a country,
where my nearest relatives seek my person and maybe my life, for
the sake of miserable lucre."
"Dolores confide in me. My plan will not in the least expose
vou. I meant to send a trusty messenger to the castle this morn-
ing, with a note to the effect, that you are safe and under my pro-_
tection; but that the ill-will of a powerful enemy of your family
makes it unsafe for you or me to return to the castle. I next
mean to state, that I guess the, whereabouts of Mr. Fox and re-,
quest them to break up their household, and depart for Turin as
soon as possible. There they must report at once at the Ameri-
can Minister's, and leave word where we may find them or vice
versa. What do you think of this ?"
"It is well enough as far as they are concerned; but what are
we to do?"
"I am coming to that presently. Luigi will most likely pro-
pose, that you shall remain in his protection, while I go to Turin
and look for your father....
He was going to proceed; but Dolores nestled to his side with
such a look of alarm and prayerful persuasion, that he checked
himself, saying:

DOLORES.                       409
"Fear nothing dearest, I havn't the slightest notion, to forsake
you. Not, that I did not trust Luigi; but no man is master of
his feelings and our host, now a noble fellow, might by a sudden
passion for you be changed into our enemy. Indeed I fear you
have already made a deeper impression on his heart, than is good
for his tranquility and the sooner you quit his company, .the bet-
ter for all of us. My plan was this. We stay here until dark
this evening and then proceed under the shelter of the night to
the next town, which is only a few miles distant. There we pro-
cure a carriage that takes us to the nearest railroad station and
once on an express train for the Capital, any and every cause for
fear is at an end. But, in order to escape annoyance on the road,
it will be best for you to assume male dresses. Luigi has a vari-
ety of clothes, I see, and will no doubt furnish us with a suit,
which will answer the purpose. What do you think of plan No 2?"
"It is well enough, though I do not like the idea of assuming
the garb of your sex?"
"I deem it essential to your safety."
"Then I shall submit;. but there the men are getting awake
now; come let me retire into .the hut; I dislike so much to meet
their coarse glances."
Dolores was right; A general stir became visible in the camp
and Charles therefore granted her reasonable request. She had
hardly retired, when Luigi came up and bidding our friend a good
morning, congratulated him on* the safe recovery of his lady.
Charles seized and warmly shook his hand.
"Luigi," he said "you have done me a service, for which I can
never forget you. If you.had saved .my life, I should not be un.
der half the obligation as now. I cannot bear the thought of
leaving you here, exposed to the dangers of your calling aind the
communion of the low and degraded. I shall write to you on
reaching the Capital-can you give me an address, to which I
may direct my letters?"
"I can, Carlo, just let me write it in your memorandum-book.
So if you write to that address, you may be sure that I shall get
your letter. But am I from what you say, to understand, that you
intend to leave me soon?"
"Yes, Signor Luigi, we mean to leave this evening. Can you
sell me a suit of man's clothing, that will fit Dolores? I think,


e

Dear Madam!
Allow me to congratulate you on the safe recovery of your
daughter. She is with me now, sending her, love to you and
Lucy; but she cannot return to the castle on account of the en-
mity of a powerful relative, who' seeks her destruction, in order
to get rid of her claims to his property. I am going to take her
in disguise to the capital, to which place I request you to depart
without delay. Do not stop to sell, what you cannot take along;
it is better to sacrifice, than to delay. Depart at once with Lucy
and on arriving at Turin call at the American Ministry. There
you will receive word from your friend
CHARLEs Fuc.s.
To this Dolores added a P. S. which ran as follows:
Dear Mother and Sister!
Rest easy on my account. I am well and in good spirits. This
evening Charles and I are going to leave for Turin, to join father.
Follow as soon as you can - .but inform none of your intentions-
your daughter
DOLORES.

DOLORES.

411

410                     DOLORES.
that such disguise will save her from annoyance, until she'reaches
Turin."
"Yes, Carlo, I have the suit of a page, which my men took on
one occasion from the surplus of a rich family. You need not
tell the lady, how I came by it."
"I certainly will not. But I have more favors to ask: can you
send a trusty fellow with a note of mine to the castle?"
"Of course I can. Write your note and I guarantee its safe de-
livery in a couple of hours."
"Thank you. You are a pearl of a brigand; but you are more
valuable for better purposes. Give me your hand Luigi, that you
will try your best, to tear yourself away from this degrading neigh-
borhood and pursuit."
Luigi's eye was moist, when he laid his hand intothat of Charles
with a firm pressure. That pressure was all his answer. Charles
went into the hut and taking from his small valise paper, ink and
pen, wrote the following note:
Luigi's camp, Aug. 9th, 1859.
Mrs.,C. Fox.

This note was put into an envelope and then with out anyad-
dress handed to Luigi. The captain picked a lad of some 15
years with handsome countenance and intelligent eyes and gave
him the necessary instructions.
"You answer for the letter with your life, Bernardo."
The lad nodded and hiding the letter in a leatherpocket on
his breast, shot away from the fort with the agility and quick-
ness of a spaniel.
The day wore away slowly and Dolores thought, it would never
end. Luigi treated her with great deference and her fare was not.
only good but even excellent; but she could not rid herself of a.
certain feeling of fear and insecurity on account of the promis-
cuous society, she was campelled to share. If she had under-
stood these people better, she would have set aside her unneces-
sary anxiety. She would have known then, that to them the
laws of hospitality are sacred and that, instead of having any de-
sire of harming her, 'each and all of them would have laid down
their lives, sooner than allow her foes to injure her. When the
afternoon wore away, she retired to the hut with the suit, which
Luigi had furnished her and half an hour afterwards returned as
handsome a lad, as the sun ever shone upon. The black velvet
pants and jacket showed her symmetrical body to a great advan-
tage and the Kossuth hat and top boots gave her an air of mis-
chiveous sauciness, which she was far from feeling. She blushed
deeply on meeting the admiring glance of Charles and Luigi.
"Don't Iook that way on me: Charlie,"n she said with an embar
rassed smile, "or I'll never come out to you."
"That would be a great blessing to all the maidens of this land.
Dear me, what bleeding hearts you'll leave on the track on your
journey!"
"Don't make fun of me, Charles. I tell you, I feel serious
enough."
"So much more reason, Dol, to cheer you up. But what did
you do with all your splendid curls? I hope you did not cut
them."
Instead of an answer, she lifted her hat and displayed a narrow
ribbon by means of which she had ingeniously shortened her hair,
without cutting it.
"That will do very well; but now Luigi tell me; can you pro-


412                     DOLORES.
cure us a carriage, to take us to the railroad station ? Perhaps
the police are still on the watch, and I would not for the world
fall in their clutches now."
"Of course, you must not. Fortunately I have my connections
and I think I can manage to procure, what you want. I shall ac-
company you myself as far as Canti; but still it will be better to
send somebody in advance, to prevent unnecessary delay."
He looked around, as if he was reflecting in his mind, whom he
had better send., At last his eye rested on a young man of clever
looks, and beckonirg him, gave him the necessary instructions in
an undertone.. Luigi evidently kept good discipline ; for the man
showed as ready and even as cheerful an obedience as the first
messenger. He nodded and taking the direction of the only out-
let disappeared from sight.
An hour afterwards Luigi deemed it late and dark enough, to
begin the intended expedition. He assisted Dolores with respect-
ful assiduity, in climbing over the rocks and soon the trio des-
cended the pass, this time-as Dolores -sincerely hoped-for the
last time. When they reached the road, they struck the right
hand direction, thus going over ground familiar to Charles, as he
had come that way only two days ago. Still the company of.
Luigi was welcome, even necessary, as darkness had now set in
and several crossroads made it difficult for a stranger to keep the
right direction. After walking about three or four miles, they
reached the place which Luigi had called Canti. He stopped his
companions a few hundi ed steps from the first house.
"Wait here a minute, I had better reconnoitre. Some voice
within me warns me, that something is wrong. Step into these
bushes and do not stir until I return."
With these words he left them and it was a full half hour before
he returned.
"I thank the Holy Virgin,- for inspir.ng me with caution," he
said on reaching them. "If I had suffered you to proceed, you
would now be in the hands of the magistrates. They have made,
you out a fellow even more terrible than myself and your case
would have been desperate, if they had caught you."
Dolores drew nearer to her friend as if she wanted to protect
him. Luigi saw the motion.-
"Fear nothing, Signora. Thanks to my foreboding, every thing

DOLORES.                       43'
is safe now. My messenger was cunning enough to elude the grip
of these 'cerberusses and has caused a one horse carriage to leave
the place and wait for us on the other side. But we have to make
the circuit of this town and 1 fear Signora will be much fatigued
before she reaches the carriage."
"Never mind me !" Dolores said so cheerfully, that Luigi with-
out further parley led the way. The road was by no means pleas-
ant, or rather there was no road at all. Fences, fields and even
ditches had to be traversed and sometimes it was necessary for-
Dolores to lean on the arms of both her companions, in order to
overcome the obstacles in her way. It was well, that her feet
were protected by the page's boots;. for they prevented at least.
the moisture from penetrating to her feet. When they at last
reached the road on the other side of the town, the poor girl was
very much fatigued and never in all her past experience, had she
felt such a great relief and pleasant sensations on entering a car-
riage, as on that occasion. She felt too grateful for Luigi's ser-
vices however to forget to thank him. Reaching her hand to him
from the carriage, she said:
"Signor Luigi, this is not the place nor the time, to thank you.
join my entreaties to those of Charles-give us an opportunity
of seeing you again and showing by our actions, how much we
appreciate your generous conduct."
Luigi was too deeply moved, to reply in words. He pressed
his lips upon the white hand lying in his and then relinquished it
Then turning to Charles he drew him into a long and fervent em-
brace.
"The Holy Virgin keep you,'' he whispered and withdrawing'
with hurried steps, disappeared in the darkness. Charles gained
his seat beside Dolores and the driver cracking his whip, set the
vehicle in motion. The parting from their tried friend made the
young couple inclined to silence.
I cannot bear the thought of leaving the noble fellow to his
fate. He deserves an effort to draw him from his forlorn condi-
tion and I shall make it."
A pressure of Dolores' hand assured him of her sympathy.
hey talked about the brigand's noble qualities and liow they-
might execute their generous intentions. Hour after hour wore-
away and when the first streaks of light appeared in the eastern

. ,
'
a
d
n~ r  4
J$-, ^f


DOLORES.

-sky, the carriage reached the railroad station. Obedient to his
instructions the driver stopped before the place and on foot
Charles and Dolores completed the short remainder of their jour-
ney. There were not many persons up yet but those, who were
up and saw the wanderers su ely had no idea, that they had come
so far that night. Their fr ness from baggage an nea
precluded all such thoughts and umolested the pair reached the
*  depot. Luigi had taken his measures to perfectian. Fifteen
minutes after their arrival, the locomotive of the eastern train
whistled in the distance and shortly afterwards the train came
rolliMg up the depot and stopped along the platform. The tickets
had already been procured; now our adventurers took their seats
and the time of stoppage having expired, the train rolled on
toward the capital in the distant west.
CHAPTER XLIII.
A DUKE cORNERED.
Mr. Fox was walking up and down his room. He was resth his
and nervous-no wonder! for he had been a full week wit hi
grace the Duke and yet he saw no evidence of that gentlemen's
getting ready, to join him in a trip to the Lago di Como.
excuses of his Grace however were so numerous and his sorrow
at being detained seemingly so sincere, that Mr. Fox rather pitied
than blamed him and tried to bear the delay with becoming pat-
ience. Yet he was restless and nervous on the occassion of. our
Visit at his quarters and even revolving in his mind the exped-
iency of starting without the Duke, when all at once a knock at
his door engaged his attention and drew his thoughts into a dif-
ferent channel. He went and opened, but the sight which met
his gaze, was to unexpected that he started back.
"Charlie! is it possible! my dear Charlie in person!"
He might have continued his exclamations, if Charles had not
cautioned him with a "pist!" The young man was particular in
shtigtedo and securing it with a bolt inside and only
when this task wasaperformed he turned around and extending
his hand to Mr. Fox, said with a smile :

"I am glad, to see myself so welcome; but you would, do well
to express yonr gratification in a more guarded manner."
"Why so' Charlie? why so? I don't know at which to wonder
most, your unexpected appearance here or the guarded manner of
your entrance. Why, my boy, don't you know, that we are in the
house of Dolores' uncle, the Duke?"
"I have an  accurate knowledge of that fact, Mr. Fox, and my
lprecaution is based on that very knowledge."
Mr. Fox was stupified.
"What do you mean, Charlie? I (1 not understand;von?"
"I mean that you have heen fearfully duped, Sir."
'"Duped, Charlie? that cannot be."
"It can be, because it is. Tell me, Sir: does the Duke not re-
tard your departure from day to day?"
"He does, because he wants to accompany me and cannot dis-
engage himself."
"I assure, you, he has no such desire. Did it never strike you,
that he might merely play a game and keep you here, in order to
prevent you from crossing his purposes?"
"No Charlie, that thought never occurred to me; but now since
you mention it, his manoeuvres assume a suspicious aspect. What
made you ask that question?"
"The knowledge of the Duke's intentio'i. Did he not learn
from you the whereabouts of Dolores?"
"I think he did" Mr. Fox replied, with evident alarm
"Well, he benefited by that.knowledge and stole her from the
castle on the lakeshore."
Mr. Fox stepped back with a look of constrnation.
"You are joking, Charlie, tell me, that you are joking boy."
"I never was more earnest in my life, Sir."
"And I am staying here day after day, wasting my time like a
fool. But wait Mr. Duke, you'll shall pay for this. Come Charlie,
let us go to the American embassy, to the police, the king! Let
us sekwetera.mseabeean
S      see whether a miserable grandee can thus abuse an American
citizen with impunity."
Theworthy mani ran for his hat and would have shot from the
room in hot haste, if Charles had not retained him~ forcibly.
"Mr. Fox" he said, "your haste would only spoil, what has not

Wit. ;..R             ',     1             _
.:i
"       r

AL

DOLORES.

414

415


416                     DOLORES.
yet been spoiled. Fortunately I learned the distress of Dolores
in:time to save her, but it was a narrow escape I assure you."
"Why did you not tell me all at once, you wicked fellow?" Mr-
Fg                     "Thank God for that timely interfer-
ence. But come,"let us leave this hotbed of treason and iniquity
without delay. Not another night will I sleep under this roof!
"Neither you shall; but I repeat, that hurry is more apt to in-
jure than to benefit us, We have plenty time, to leave this pal-~
ace before night. Just now I want you to sit down, and listen,
to all the many things I have to tell you."
"Welt, fire away, boy" Mr. Fox replied, taking a seat, but.
chafing all the while like a chained lion.
Charles began his tale and before long Mr. Fox became so in-
terested, that he even forgot that he had been impatient. He-
listened with breathless suspense to the recital of his daughter's
narrow escape and when Charles had done, he shook his head-
and said :
"They say babies have their guardian angels, but I now perl
ceive, that boobies have as well. I am a booby, Charlie, a dolt.
and you my guardian angel. Providence has pity on mystupid
head and. sends you on my track, to correct my blunders.
Charles, what an ass have I made of myself!"
"Now Mr. Fox I cannot consent to listen to any such disres-
pectful language bearing upon a certain gentleman I highly es-
teem and love. You will oblige me by discontinuing it at once.
Have you a right, to call yourself ugly names, because in the
goodness of your heart yo u have been deceived by an arrant,
knave?"i
"That's right, smooth it up my boy, so that r can bear looking
in a mirror again. Goodness of heart! yes indeed' stupidity of
brain.!"
"No Sir, I do believe, that I or any other man would not have,
fared any better."
"Yes you would; you would have smelled the rat ten steps.
ahead."l
"I thank you in the name of my nasal organ',. Charles replied
indulging in a moderate laugh. "But now stop abusing yourself;,
we can use the time for something better,"
"Very well, my boy, I cave'mn. I am not, fit for anything bu

DOLORES.                      417
listening anyhow. You command hereafter and I obey. Go
ahead, Sir."'-                   1ratradIoe.G
"Ally way, you pleaseSir; if we only accomplish our purpose.
Dolores has become much disgusted at her relations in consequence
of this "coup" and desires nothing better, than to return to Amer-
ica at once."
"Cannot be done, Sir! can not be thought f!"
claimed; "what! vacate the field in the face of such knavish con-
duct? No indeed; I mean to show the Duke that anAvican
gentlman anno be rifldtwiht'an American
gentleman cannot be trifled with, if he is ever so much of a dolt."
"Now don't Sir," Charles said intreatingly; "but as regards
your intentions, they meet my approbation. It is our duty to
preserve Dolores' claims even against her wysh  and  duty to
opinion, that the lawless conduct of her uncle has given the game
nto our hands. We have allthe trumps and must win, if we com-
mit no blunders."
"But we will if I am concerned in it, Charlie. Do me the fa-
vor to leave me entirely out of the question."
"Your duties will be neither difficult nor ardent. 'First I want
you to go to the Embassy, where Dolores will be delighted to re-
ceive you."
"That step meets my hearty appreciation."
"Next to that, I want you to consult the minister, as to a pro-
per place of residence in the neighborhood of his hotel."
"That is not very difficult either."
"Thirdly I want you to look out for Mrs. Fox and Lucy and
take care of them. They will call at the Embassy, you recollect."
Agreed; what else?"
"Nothing Mr. Fox, except to hold yourself in readiness for any
new developments, and keep at home as much as    orany
at I may find you without delay and trouble."
Mr. Fox took his hat.
"I like that programme Charlie," he said; "and 1 It
can carry it out without any further blunders. Can I o n '
Charles could not help laughing.
"Yes, Sir, you may and tell the minister to have an eye#;tt
palace, in case I should not show myself in an hour or (o."
"We'll watch you Charlie, you 'may depend on that, 1and now
I'll slip away.27Don't tell me anything about your intentionN; my


:(,

418

DOLORES.

head is swimming as it is, in consequence of all the stuff, that
has been crammed into it."
He opened the door and slipped silently down stairs, as if he
feared, to be stopped before reaching the portal. But nobody
made any signs, to intercept his exit-the Duke had evidently not
heard from his agent yet-and having reached the street he in-
quired for the American Embassy, and started ,towards it with
haste, as if a spectre was at his heels.
We mbust let him go and return to Charles as the person acting
just now the principal role. Having waited long enough for Mr.
Fox to reach the street, he rang the bell and told the entering
servant to take his coinpliments to the Duke and that Mr. Fox
would like to pay his attention to his Grace.
The servant looked so stupefied on seeing a new face in that
room, that Charles thought best to explain.
"I am Mr. Fox jr.," he said; "but you need not mention that
to his Grace-I shall explain myself."
The servant withdrew an'd five minutes afterwards returned with
the message, that the, Duke would be happy, to receive Mr. Foggs,
Charles followed the man and begged him, to show him the
Duke's room. On reaching the ante-chamber, the servant on duty
was as astonished as his comrade had been. He stepped before the
curtained door, as if he meant, to stop the advance of the stranger.
"The Duke expects me," Charles addressed him. -'I am Mr.
Fox junior."
The servant seemed still doubtful as to the propriety of admit-
ting him; but the visitor moved with so much assurance and
elegance, that he was afraid to offend him by still detaining him.
Opening the door, he said:
"Signor Foggs, jr."
The last word made the Duke raise his head in wonderment
and when he saw a perfect stranger entering his apartment, he
started up in surprise and seemed much inclined to call his ser-
vants for the purpose of ejecting a man, that had secured an en-
trance by false pretences. But the polite bow and noble appear-
ance of the young man made him hesitate.
"What does this- signify?" he asked rather sharply. "I ex-
pected a certain, Mr. Foggs, and must justly wonder -at seeing a
stranger enter my room instead."

DOLORES..

anYou see r Fox before you. My name is Charles Fuchs
s just now engaged begs your Grace, to
accept me as his representative."
The duke did not seem to be much assured by this reply. What
id his change signify? Did the stranger speak the truth? and
if he did, would the Duke gain mucir by the change? Their
a certainasomething in that young man's eye, which told he
,      might not be very safe, to trifle with him. He th
foreslooked at Charles without saying a word; but if he medta-
rong measures against the intruder, Charles spoiled his cal-
culations, by resuming in a tone of great politeness:
"Your Grace need fear nothing from my person and if you will
yourself the favor of a short interview, you can soon convince
yourself of the correctness of my statement."
The young man certainly did not look like an assassin; so the
Duke thought, there could be no great risk in granting his e
quest.                          -
"Take a seat, then, Signor" he replied, "I
the explanation of the qui pro quo."
Charles took a chair.
"In-order not to occupy your Grace's time lon  th
scary" he said, "I'll enter into the subject of my call without any
preface. I am authorized by Mr. Fox and Miss Dolores di Ga-
tana, to enteriuto any amicable settlement of that ladies claims
your Grace may desire to make."s
The Duke winced under these words. He saw at once that he
had a different person to deal with. This man  ont thatne
For a moment he was seriously alarmed, but recollecting a certain
dispatch he had received, which was signed "Giacomo" and can
tained the statement, that "every thing was right" he  con-
spirits and entered without delay upon the executiounrosed his
which as he thought, would crush any further aspirations of these
people in the bud.
"Amicable settlement?" he asked, laying a good portion f d
vision in his words. "Indeed Sir, I am getting tiredof this farce.
On inquiry I have learned, that the party, whose interest
pretend to advocate--I mean a certain lady pretending to be my
niece---does only exist in imagination."
Now the Duke expected to see the young stranger fire up and

49


420                    DOLORES.
use insulting language, thus furnishing him with an excuse to have-
him ejected from the palace. Being in possession of thedeiraus
he would after that brand all their claims as attempts of defraud-
ing him out of his possessions. The disappearance of the girl
he would interpret as a measure on their part, to cast a shadow.
on his reputation and use it as a proof in hisfavor of the unten-
ableness of their position. They might perhaps annoy him a lit-
ble; ut what could they do without the girl? It was more than
likely that they would desist, as soon as they would learn of her
disappearance.
These were th Duke's calculations, and his present conduct
th     He was therefore surprised, to see, that
his reply, instead of a using the passion of the visitor, had only
the effect of exciting his  th. Indeed Charles smiled; he smiled
as strongly, as he could, without overstepping the borders of
god breedin'g.-Some persons might have styled his smile a.
lagh-N      - hsmled, because he Aderstood the Duke's 5posi-
laugh.--Now he smile,       1     aok    n  ial because ,
tion ; because he read in his soul as in abook; and finally because
he enjoyed the thought of driving that rogue of high rank from
position to position, until nothing but an unconditional surrender
would be left. He only smiled a moment though-the time for
the struggle had arrived.
"Sir Duke" he said with a low voice looking at the same time
around the room, as if he wanted to see, whether any uncalled,
for ears were listenimg, "if you would accept my advise, you
would not stand on ground, which is wholly untenable."
"Thankyou,sdinowr,forthat advise" the Duke said with freez--
ing coldness "but I am in the habit of taking my own counsel."
Charles shrugged his shoulders.
"Perhaps you will change your tactics, after receiving certain
information. You are, notthe only person receiving telegraphic
dispatches. That glorious institution,-the pride of our age-
is a common institution, thank God."
He stopped. He wanted to crush the Duke by inches. That
was cruel no doubt; but he meant to be cruel, because he thought
that crhe mnobfr him deserved punishment. He looked at.
his victim and saw at once, that his arrow had hit the markt
the Duke had got a shad, paler and he did not reply-that
was proof beyond a doubt.

DOLORES.                      421
"Your dispatch told you, that all wa1 right" he continued
"'but mine is ofaa later date you see, and tells me that all is
'wrong -.-that is as far ar you are concerned."
The Duke felt, that the stranger played with him, as the cat
with the mouse and he made a powerful effort to free himself
from that keen sarcastic look, those sharp, biting words. He
struggled hard and he failed. Charles saw him collapse and feel-
mg a touch of pity he hastened his operations.
"I'll not speak in riddles, Signor," he resumed. "I'll tell ou
plainly, that the prisoner has been rescued from your castle on
the lake. I'll tell you plainly, that she is now in this city, that it
would cost us but an hour, to reach the court and whisper into
the king's ear a tale of shame and treachery. After this state-
nent, which your stubbornness compelled me to make, I repeat
my original question : Is your Grace inclined, to make an amica-
ble settlement?"
The Duke all the time felt a keen torment, worse than which
the doomed spirits cannot suffer; but these very tortures bred
thoughts within his mind also worthy of demoniac spirits. Could
he possibly secure this daring person, who outraged him in the
very privacy of his sanctum? Could he command some trusty
followers amongst his servants, who would be willing, to assist
im in silencing those lips for ever?
These thoughts were by no means nature; but his nervous body
anticipated their completion.  His hand jerked towards the bell
on the table and might have touched it, if it had not been for its
very nervousness.
Charles saw the motion; but it had no other effect on him, than
the Duke's previous measures---it created another smile.
"Ring away, Sir Duke," he said scornfully; "for all the good
you ringg wl ido yu. Do you think, that I was silly enough,
to beard the lion in his den, without securing my retreat? Allow
me, to inform you, that our minister is in the secret and that this
secret will start on its wa) to the royal palace, if within one hour
from now, I do not make my appearance at the Embassy. Sir
uke, will you allow me to repeat my question: Are you ready
or an amicable settlement?"
The proud noble was completely humbled; he was more than
humbled-he was crushed. Raising his hand with a supplicating
gesture, he said in a broken voice:
"Mercy, mercy! do not proceed. I am willing to do anything
you wish; but not now, not now--I am not able to attendtobusi-
ness just now--grant me a respite till to-morrow."
"I will, Signor, and with pleasure; but mark; if this is merely
a subterfuge; if to-morrow you begin your game over again-in
that case, I shall refuse to treat. In that case I shall let justice
have her sway and publicity her victim."


422                    DOLORES.
"Be it, as you say" the Duke replied, "but now, leave me, leave
me Sir."
Charles obeyed his wishes and bowing deeply, withdrew from
the chamber.
On the next morning the papers contained the startling an-
nouncement, that the Duke di Gatana had suddenly died in con-
sequence of a stroke of apoplexy.
CHAPTER XLIV.
THE RE GALANT HUOMO.
Mrs. Fox and her daughter had arrived. The room of the
hotel, where Mr. Fox had taken his abode, witnessed a happy
scene. They were reunited, reunited after much suffering and
some peril. Such adversities are necessary to give us the full ap-
preciation of the value of love and friendship. They are apt to
make us more contented and better. They made the members of
this family better, softening the rough outlines of some charac-
ters and giving strength to the new formations of others. Happy
they were of course; so happy, that Dolores declared it to be
tempting fortune, to force any more gifts from her unwilling
hand. She demanded an immediate departure for her home
across the ocean and the startling news of her uncle's sudden
death could not change her opinion. Yet Charles and Mr. Fox
would not listen to her persuasions. The former declared em-
phatically, that his own wishes coincided with those of Dolores
and that she would be as welcome to him without as with a
crown-, but he sided with Mr. Fox, when that gentleman declared
that they had no right, to humor the wishes of an inexperienced
child, who did not know the value of.the pearls she wished to
fling away. Riper years might bring repentance of the rash act
and it was Mr. Fox' duty to secure himself against reproaches,
which were not probable, but yet possible. So the wishes of Dol-
ores were overruled and it was resolved that an audience with the
king should be sought and a decision of the case sollicited from
his impartiallity and judgment.' The minister easily obtained
permission for his protege. to appear and it was decided that Dol-
ores in company of Mr. Fox and Charles should be presented.
They procured the necessary suits and one afternoon in company
with the minister drove to the palace. The king was alone and
he received the party with hisusual friendliness and condescen-
sion. He had just read the description of the young lady's case
and now looked with interest and admiration upon the splendid
beauty, of the youthfulduchess.said
"I bid y~welcomewa mycour,"1Dlorei Gatana" he si

DOLORES.                      423
reaching his hand to her. "You have gone through many vicis-
situdes of fortune, from what I learn-let us hope, that in future
only the sun of happiness will shine on your path."
"I thank your Majesty."
"And this is the worthy gentleman, who has guided your help-
less youth in the land beyond the ocean?"
"He was and- is my father."
"That is right; gratitude is a virtue which adorns every rank
and station. I welcome you at my court, Signor Fox."
Mr. Fox replied by bowing in silence.
"But this second friend of yours-in what capacity must I re-
gard him?"
"As a cousin, Majesty and a dear friend."
Dolores blushed in speaking and the king smiled.
"Give me your hand, young gentleman-the friendship of this
charming lady is the best recommendation you could bring me.
But now having welcomed you, mylady, I would ask you: what
do you want me to do in this novel case of yours?"
Dolores bowed.
"I leave it to your Majesty's best discretion."
"And you have no wishes you would want me to regard."
"Yes, your Majesty, I have. I have the wish to be spared this
wealth and splendor, which, as I have experienced even now, car-
ries with it much constraint and hollowness. I want nothing
better, than to be allowed, to continue in the circumstances,w here
a merciful Providen e has placed me."
The king became nore and more interested in this lovely appar-
ition
"You speak wisely for one so young," he said; but what pre-
vents you from indulging in your wishes ?"
"The deference in which I hold the opinion of these friends.
They both appear to think, that I ought not to decide so impor-
tant a matter in my youth and inexperience."
'By the Holy Virgin, they are right Dolores. I thank them,
for giving me a chance, to see one of the fairest jewels of my
crown. No, no, we cannot afford, to lose you child."
He stopped and seemed to meditate a little while.
"They tell me, the deceased Duke left a son," he began after a
while. "What would you say if we solved this Gordian knot, a
second Alexander, by making you and him a pair.".
Dolores stepped back a step and her consternation at the king's
suggestion was so evident, that he could not help noticing it.
"My proposal does not seem to meet your approbation," he said,
smiling. "I cannot construe your evident repugnance in any other
way, than by interpreting it as a declaration, that your heart is
already engaged."


I

f424

DOLORES.

A deep blush on her cheeks confirmed his suspicion.
"And this happy individual," he continued; "does my eye be-
hold him?"
He glanced at Charles, and Dolores taking courage, seized the
young man's hand and presenting him to the king, said :
"Your Majesty will make me very happy by approving of my
choice."
"With pleasure child, with pleasure. I am no tyrant, who rends
happy hearts asunder. I congratulate this lucky youth and-to
tell the truth-I envy him."
The king smiled and seemed to study a second time for a pro-
per solution of this question.
"I see," he resumed as before. "I can do nothing less, than
bestow your rank upon your husband. In such case, Signor,
could I count upon your royal support?"
The king in speaking-the latter words, had turned to Charles.
Our young friend was sorry for this question. It pained him to
reject the king's kindness and yet his principles would suffer no-
thing else.
"Your Majesty will pardon me," he said with a noble grace,
that won the' king's approval; "if I respectfully decline the great
honor offered me. I am an American citizen, sire and as such
forbidden to receive any rank or favor from a foreign potentate."
"But you might expatriate yourself" '
"I love my country, sire," the young man said raising his head
and looking proudly in the king's eye;. "and no consideration,
not even my devotion to this hdy could induce me to desert it."
The king bit his lips and for a moment it seemed as if he meant
to give way to the little resentment, which this open rejection had
created. But Victor Ewanuel had not the reputation of a good
man for nothing. He promptly conquered the transient emotion
and offering his hand to Charles a second time, he said:
"Proud as a Republican ! is the ada'e; but I bear you no malice
and here is my hand as a pledge of the sincerity of my words. I
respect your character, tho' it makes me doubly sorry, that I have
go chance of winning you for. my court."
Again the king stopped and this time the silence became pain-
ful. To end it Charles stepped forward.
"Will it offend your Majesty if I give my   opinion un-
demanded?"
"Not at all, Sir. I should like to hear your views."
"I thank your Majesty. It strikes me, that it would hardly be
fair to make the Duke's son suffer for his father's faults: how
would it answer, to divide the domains of the ducal house between
the heirs disputant?"
"That is a fair proposal, Sir; but does it meet the lady's appro-
bation?"

DOLORES.

425

"Any thing, which Charles proposes, is acceptable to me."
"Fair words from fair lips. It strikes me, as if I myself could
refuse a ducal crown for the love of such a dams&amp;l. Be it then,
as you say ; but I have to make one condition."
"Will-your Majesty please to name it?"
"I am too selfish, to lose such a fair subject altogether, and
therefore make the stipulation, that you spend one third of all
your time in my' dominions."
"And if I fail?"
"You pay the income of the estates for that year to the poor
of my kingdom."
"Accepted, Majesty."
"And now, have you any other favor to ask?"
"Yes, with your Majesty's permission I would ask a full pardon
of Luigi, the brigand and his band.'
The king was evidently both surprised and amused at this
request.  /
"May I ask you the reason of that request ?" he asked
Dolores hesitated.
"My answer might impair the reputation of the Duke my
uncle."
"Never mind! your words are safe with me."
So driven Dolores saw herself compelled to narrate, how Luigi
assisted her in escaping from the Duke's castle. The king was
interested and he was moved. Laying his hand upon the lady's
head, he said:
"You are as good. as you are beautiful. Will you pledge me a
visit every time you visit Italy?"
"With all my heart, sire."
"Then you shall have the pardon. Excuse me a few moments
if you please."
With these words the king left the room and Mr. Fox took a
long breath. The presence of a majesty evidently did not agree
with his 'republican lungs.
"Dol," he said; -'I dont know, how you get all the words, to
speak so handsomely. I felt all the time as if Iwas standing on
ice."
Dolores laughed.
"And you Charlie, bold rascal that you are, to throw a crown
at a king's feet."
"Wasn't I right, Mr. Fox?"
"Well yes, I think you were. That is-I meant to say-it was
rather a ticklish job."
Before Charles could reply, the king re-entered the room. He
handed Dolores a letter and said:
"Here is the pardon. The rascal may thank his lucky star,
for your timely interference; for these robbers have got so bold


m

426

DOLORES

since the war, that I was just meditating a crusade in force against
them. But now having granted you a favor, I claim the privilege
of asking one myself."
"What can I grant, worthy of a king's acceptance?"
"That you will allow me, to give away this hand; next to re-
ceiving it, it is the greatest pleasure I can conceive."
"Your Majesty overwhelms me with his kindness. Indeed we
had not thought of so early a marriage  .
"But you change your plan to accomodate me-I know you will.
You Sir I suppose have no objection to my proposition?"
"Not the slightest!" Charles cried with a radiant eye.
"I thought so," the king said cooly. "And you Sir?"
"I can only say, that the day of their union will be the hap-
piest of my life," Mr. Fox responded.
"That is settled then. Let it be understood that I give the
bride away and make the necessary arrangements. I shall see
you again on this. For to-day, you must kindly excuse me-my
leisure time is up."
The king waved his hand-they were dismissed. Dolores was
in a trance and she stated in afteryears, that she never knew,
how she reached her hotel.
Mrs. Fox and Lucy opened their eyes to their widest extent
and would hardly credit the story of the king's gracious condes-
cension. Dolores bore her luck meekly Charles his proudly.
"And the wedding is to be soon?" Mrs. Fox exclaimed, clasp-
ing her hands in token of her surprise and joyous excitement.
"Yes mother"-Charles thought he might take that liberty now
-"but we don't know the day. The king is to appoint it himself.
I don't care, how soon it comes, so that I can get a witness from-
the lake. Dol you were a noble girl to think of Luigi; you are
so much better and smarter, than I-I should never have thought
of sucha thing. Will you give me the paper and allow me, to
depart at once, to take the joyful news to Luigi?"
"I will Charlie and I charge you to bringshim along without
failing."
"I'll try my best, Dol. Good by my darling, soon my bride.
Mother take good care of her. Good by to all of you."
"What Charlie, leave us now? ?" @Ir. Fox exclaimed, You
cannot think of such a thing."                        .i
"Indeed I can and do. I have to pay a debt of gratitude in
which both Dolores and I are concerned. To-morrow might be
too late-indeed I have a foreboding, as if it would. Good bye
once more and a happy reunion."
He drew Dolores into his arms and kissed her tenderly. After
that he took his hat and before they could say or do anything to
the contrary, he had left the room.

DOLORES.

427

It is our duty once more to accompany him on his trip. For-
tunately this is the day of railroads and we can let the young
man travel with fastest express-train of the road. Behold!he has
already reached the station, where he quits the ironway and
takes a carriage for the little town of Canti. Now he is there he
seeks the magistrate and puts the king's pardon into his hand.
The man knows the royal signature and feels a good deal of re-
spect for a man, that has influence enough, to procure such a
document.
"Your Excellency is just in time, to do the work of mercy. To-
morrow might have been to late, for I now hold an order from
the Secretar of the interior, to use the most rigid measures, to
stop the dep edations of these banditti. A company of regulars
has been pla ed at my disposal and a most deadly conflict stood
in prospect. But how your Excellency convey this joyful intel-
ligence to Luigi?"
"There is no trouble in that, my friend. I happen to know his
place of refuge."
"Indeed! If you will pardon the liberty, I should ask, whether
your Excellency is the gentleman, who was mixed up with Luigi's
last offense?"
"I might answer yes to that question and not be far out of the
way, Charles replied with a laugh. "But I have little timq to
lose-you would oblige me by making out a safe pass for my
protege without delay."
The magistrate complied with this request and an hour after-
wards, Charles again started on his mission pf mercy. He found
that road without any trouble; and having gained the pass, as
cended it, until he reached a place a few hundred yards from
where he knew the sentinel to be posted. A shall whistle brought
out the head of the man. Charles broke a green bough and with
it advanced until the sentinel told him to stop.
"Man, have you forgotten me?" Charles cried to him.
"By the madonna, you are signor Carlo, the captain's friend."
"Is he at home?"
"Yes sir, in truth, he has been a different man ever since your
departure and doesn't stir abroad a particle."
"I want to see him."
"Well come on; a good friend like you one can pass without
much danger. 'Ahe captain will be so glad to see you!"
And indeed he was glad ! When Charles emerged from the pass.
and showed his face to the chieftain, that rpan sprang up, as if a
bullet had hit him. One bounce and he lay in Charles arms.
"You return ? you have not forgotten poor Luigi?"
"No indeed! you hardly thought I would? I am the harbinger
of good news, Luigi! I have secured your pardon from the king!"'

.,


428                    DOLORES.
But Luigi did not appear to be glad at these news at all.
"I thank you, my friend, for your kind intentions, and I shall
take it just the same, as if I could benefit by it. But you know I
can not. I -am no better than these, and as they fare, I must
fare.''
"But, man, I knew all that and therefore procured a free pardon
for all.' Or rather she did, Luigi, just think of it, with her own
sweetlips she begged the pardon of you all from the king. Here
take this. It is the safe pass from the magistrate in Canti for you
and all your followers."
Luigi took the paper with a trembling hand. Ie wanted to
speak; but he-could not. Another moment and that strong man,
that man of iron body and iron will, wept like a child. . .
"Tell them," he sobbed.-"I can-not-do it."
Charles acted on the hint. Mounting on a ledge projecting from
the rocks, he waved his hat and by his cries, brought all the band
to his feet. They wondered no doubt, what was the matter, look-
ing now at their weeping leader, now at the stranger.
"Men" he cried. "I have  appy news for you. You recollect
the lady, who owes the recovery of her freedom to your generos-
ity?-very well; she went to the Capital from here and like a good
noble lady, that she is, went to the king, to procure a free pardon
for you all. Here I hold it in my hand!"
For a moment the crowd were still-they seemed to fail to com=
prehend the meaninfQ the words; but after a few minutes, when
the consciousness  the' good luck had burst upon their braits,
they all broke out nto a loud and simultaneous shout of delight,
Some danced, others fell into each other's arms, and a few-like
their chieftain-went aside and cried. Charles allowed their first
delirium of joy to pass away, before he made another effort to
speak; but when he thought them cool enough, to give him their
attention, he raised his hand as an indication, that he had more
to say.-
"I am glad, to see you all so happy,' he resumed. "You have
occasion for rejoicin  for a heavy weight has been taken from
your shoulders. You a -e newly born, as it were and I hope that,
all of you wvill begin a new life. You have my sincere wishes,and
what is more, you shall have my assistance. In the name of the
good lady, to whom you are indebted for this happy moment, I
offer everyone of you the chance of a life, industrious but free
of care.'The lady is going to enter upon the possession of large
estates, and it shall be my pleasure and my privilege, to employ
every one of you according to his talents and his inclinations.
Until that time I shall furnish your former leader with the means
to support you. None of. you shall leave here and say: I had no
chance to amend-destitution forced me back to a freebooter's life.
Recollect, we hold out a helping hand to all of you. But we

DOLORES.                       429
make one condition-one rigid, stern, unchangeable condition. It
is: Sin no more!"
After these words Charles sprang from the ledge, and so eager
were the grateful children of the forest, to press his hand and
stammer their thanks, that he found difficulty to catch sufficient
air for breathing and space for standing. At last he succeeded in
reaching the place where Luigi stood a mute but appreciating
spectator of the scene. Charles told to bid the men gather their
valuables and then form in procession below the narrow pas-
sage. They did not possess much, for with the characteristic
thoughtlessness of their class they had always spent their ill-got-
ten gain as quickly as they had earned it. Therefore the proces-
sion was soon formed and with Charles and Luigi at their head,
they marched to Canti to receive a written certificate of their par-
don. They formed a singular procession, these wild looking men
interspersed with numerous women and children, and many a
curious eye stopped on the road to view them and him, that led
them. The town was all astir and the sidewalks of the streets
lined with spectators. Charles however did not care; freely'and
frankly he gazed around and many a pretty maiden acknowledged
to herself or her bosom friend, that the foreign signor was a very
handsome youth. Charles was proud of his role ; in fact never in
all his life had he felt so proud, as at the head of that promiscu-
ous band.
At the court-house they halted and it required several hours,
until every one had his pardon in his pocket. Then Charles made
them fall in rank again and led them from the town, until they
reached a common with large chestnut trees scattered here and
there. Forming them in a circle, and stepping himself into the
centre, he made them another, a final speech.
"My friends" he said. "I have to leave you now and what is
worse, I have to rob you of Luigi for a little while. But he is to
come back and in the mean time, I shall see, that you are not
lacking the necessaries of life. -How many are there of you?"
A census was taken which showed the whole band to number
thirty five heads, about one third of which belonged to women
and children.
"Luigi, how much money is necessary to feed them well for 24
hours?" Charles inquired.
"A louis d'or will do it well."
"Very well I shall take my measures accordingly. My friends,
could you camp under these trees for a couple of weeks?"
"We can, if the magistrates will let us," a voice from the crowd
responded.
"I expect to gain their consent. Now mind well, what I tell
you. I shall contract with some one in town to furnish you the
necessary supplies for thirty days. So long you will be without


430                     DOLORES.
a leader, for you must learn to lead yourselves, must learn self
control and gain self-relianee. These thirty days shall be a time
of trial of probation. You must not stray from here and abstain
from all and every lawless action.' Those of you, who stand this
test, I shall take care of on my return; those however, who are.
uuable to restrain themselves so little, as to disregard my wishes,
I shall deem unworthy of further sympathy and show them the
cold shoulder. And now farewell, I shall go to town with Luigi,
and take the necessary measures- in your behalf. Farewell and
let me hope that I shall find you here, all of you, on my return."
Another scene-of .pressing around the young men; more shak-
ing of hands, more shedding of tears-they have left and the
members of the little tribe look at one another with eyes as help-
less as those of children, who have suddenly been deprived of
their mother.
Charles and Luigi went to town. Their first walk was to the
magistrate, to whom the former explained his intentions con-
cerning the late banditti begging his consent to their remaining
on the commons, until Charles could take better care of them.
The magistrate was a good and kind man and without difficulty
granted the desired permission.    .
"You are a wise young man" he said to Charles, shaking his
hand with sincere admiration. "To have secured the pardon of
these men maybe a good deed-but to secure them the chance of
an industrious honest life is one, infinitely better. To set these
men free and adrift would be little better, than to force them back
to their old wicked ways. I admire your generosity and I admire
your plan of gradual emancipation. Those of them, who cannot
await your return without further transgressions, are indeed unfit
subjects of compassion and deserve nothing better, than the
hempen noose, which will be their final destiny. I wish you the
best success, Signor, in your philanthropic efforts and you may
rest assured that you have at least the aid, which I can give and,
my prayers."
"Thank you, Sir. Tell me would it be much trouble for you to
take care of these thirty pieces of gold? I want the money to
be spent for the support of my clients and expect to contract
with some dne for the provisions. But I fear deception in case
the contractor is beyond control and a surveillance on your part,
Signor, would no doubt have the happiest effect."
The magistrate received the money and promised to see, that i
should be spent honestly and properly. Leaving him, Charles
went to see a n erchant, whom Luigi had recommended as an hon--
est man, and as a fit person, to take the contract for furnishing,
the provisions. Our friend was so fortunate as to enlist the
man's sympathy and to induce him, to take the contract. So
everything was settled to his satisfaction and making a circuit
for the purpose of avoiding another contract with the freedmen,

DOLORES.                       431
Charles reached the railroad with his friend and companion, much
sooner than he had expected to be able. On arriving at-the hotel
in Turin he was of course received with open arms and the reader
will readily believe me when I tell him, that the famous brigand
too received his due portion of care and interest.
CHAPTER XLV.
CONCLUsION.
The nuptials of our hero and heroine turned out a grand affair
The undertakings of a king are not always royal; but in this in-
stance they were.. The king according ro the programme gave
away the bride and a magnificent bride she was.' I could spend
a couple of pages in describing her splendid robe, her veil of gos-
samer--thinness-a present of his Majesty,--her priceless pearls;
but then I shun the rigid criticism of the fair sex and rather
omit the chance of a grand description, than betray my ignorance
of the thousand and one articles, which make upa lady's toilet
I also pass over the stately appearance of the bridegroom and
merely mention, that beside Luigi another visitor of interest was
was amongst the guests assembled--I mean the young Duke di
Gatana, the cousin of the bride. The generous conduct of Dol-
ores had gained her the hearts of her aunt as well as her cousin
and although his recent loss would have excused his absence, he
could ot refuse himself the satisfaction of .-racing the ceremony
by his presence and, as the head of the family giving it his salc-
tion,
I assure the reader, that it is quite a selfdenial to flow break
off the thread of my tale but I see well enough, that it must be
done some time or other and where could there de a fitter oppor-
tunity than the entrance of my heroes into that harbor of bliss
they so richly deserve?
In Foxville the establishment has been largely increased and
the hands more than doubled. The concern florIshes in spite of
the war, or perhaps in consequence of it. Charles who has en-
tered as partner gives his workmen a share of his profits and they
go for him through the fire, as the Germans have it.
In Italy their estates are equally' flourishing. Numerous estab-
lishments for raising silkworms or making wine and olive-oil or
braiding strawhats or bonnets have sprung up every where on
their lands and their "subjects" are all around the subjects of
envy. They treat them well and encourage their industryby al-
lowing them a fair portion of the profits, which their labor yields
They encourageidst}y moreover by putting a premium on in-


432            .        DOLORES.
telligence and establishing everywhere good schools- No child is
allowed to work in their factories-but they make it compulsory
on the parents, to send their children to school.
Amongst their most florishing settlements is that of the freed-
men of our acquaintance. They never fail to visit this settle-
ment and if ever people were carried on their fellow-being's
hands-that expression applied to Charles and Dolores in' the
village of the freedmen.
Luigi is their indispensable assistant in their Italian domains
-Burlesque in those on the other side of the Atlantic. The
former is head manager in Europe-the latter in America, and -it
is hard to say, which of the two is more warmly attached to the
noble pair, which was the maker of their fortune, the founder of
their happiness. Luigi is still single; his ardent friendship almost
excludes the possibility of his loving. Burlesque on the other
hand has recently won the heart and hand of Lucy and now pre-
sides as well in a family circle as in that larger establishment,
which in harmony and mutual forbearance of its members not
only equals but even excells many a family,
Mr. and Mrs. Fox enjoy their usual health but their spirits seem
to increase with their years. The name of the former is still in the
firm; but it may be said, that he is an honorary member in the
true sense of the word. He is regularly absent and exempt from
paying fees-is that not the definition of an honorary member?
Charlie's parents experience the truth of the bible words which
say : "A wise son makes a glad father; but a foolish son is the
heaviness of his mother."" They still pretend to live in the cottage
but in reality they spend most of their time in the house, which
Charles has built in the neighborhood of his own home. They
dote upon a little stranger, who has arrived and predict that he
will unite his father's integrity and intellect with his mother's.
goodness and beauty. Henry is in Italy and so is Richard. They
have just served their last term of apprentice-ship under the pleas-
ant but firm rule of Luigi. Mrs. Fuchs jr. has lately caused the
making out of a deed, by which two handsome farms in Lom-
bardy have been settled upon them. If the report is true, they
have learned the language and manners of their new country; and
look with favorable eyes upon two damsels there, expecting in
turn to settle their farms upon them as their bette halves and
helpmates.                                                                                  -
Mr. Goodman and Sarah his sister and housekeeper, are brav-
ing the inroads of old age most cheerfully. As far as cheerful-
ness and contentment are concerned, they are likely to cheat old.
age out of its dues.

END.

-                                          ,a    t                  "Lt  6
v                                                    Y  4r
e
4y   ;
J
-7
'           N       "ti
"               -             f      t
jr
tU
-       ti ly  }
v FF.
t              t   ,         -,may
-      " ( b' "sl ek


                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
             
         
       
   
