
    ----CITATION----
        Peterson, Charles J. (1819-1887). The Old Stone Mansion .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7424
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The old stone mansion 
            
               THE OLD STONE MANSION. BY CHARLES J. PETERSON, AUTHOR OF "CRUISING IN THE LAST WAR,'" KATE AYESFORD!" VALLEY FARM/, { GRACE DUDLEY, OR ARNOLD AT SARA- TOGA"' AND PUBLISHER OF F PETERSON'S LADIES' NATIONAL MAGAZINE." Complete in one large vol., neatly bound its cloth, for Onle Dollar and Tiwen. ty-five Cents; or another edition, in two vols0., paper cover, for One Dollar. T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, No. 306 CHEST- NUT STREET, PHLADELPHA, take pleasure in pre- senting to the public what they believe to be the best romance of real life ever written in America. This is the opinion of the best andsmost impartial editors and critics, several of whom have read the work in- proof-sheets. They all say that it is one of the most thrilling, powerful and absorbing stories ever penned, and is no " catch-penny" fiction, but one of equal value and interest: full of stirring incidents and strongly drawn scenes, intensely interesting on every page, yet so beautiful in style, and so true to nature, that it can be read with delight by the best educated men of the country. In proof of this the publishers quote -the following notice from one of the most candid and able Literary Reviewers in the United States:- From the Editorial columns of Forney's Daily Press of September 27th, edited by R. Shelton Mackenzie, Esq. "There lately ran through one of our city magazines, which has a large circulation and high literary character, a romance of real life, called 'The Old Stone Mansion,' written by Mr. Charles J. Peterson, editor of the popular monthly in question, We noticed it, at the time, as it proceeded, and (17)   18      THE OLD STONE MANSION. were sorry when it came to a close. Mr. Peterson has largely rewritten, greatly enlarged, and considerably improved it. In a few days it will be published, in one volume 12mo., by T. B. Peterson & Brothers, with the advantages of good paper, neat printing, and a handsome exterior. We have just finished reading it again, (in the proof sheets, in fact,) and this repe- rusal confirms our good opinion of it. The characters are drawn with as much delicacy as truth-that of the heroine, who is supposed to relate her own story, being the most ad- mirably limned of all. In the earlier chapters, she draws, with almost painful fidelity, a touching picture of the early trials of an orphan's dependence upon rich but grudging, selfish, and unkind relations. The advance of the story gives us life at a fashionable watering-place, with its flirtations and scan- dals. The remainder takes us to the Old Stone Mansion, where the more striking incidents of the romance take place, true to life and tragically real. Mr. Peterson has invested the Mansion with a supernatural halo--which reminds us of the powerful effect produced by Wilkie Collins' similar treatment of the mysterious Myrtle Room in ' The Dead Secret.' One feels so uncomfortable, in short, when reading the dark legends of that gloomy, ruined mansion, that the denouement, sad as it is, is felt as a relief. We may hint that the scene of this story is laid partly in and close to Philadelphia, and partly in a certain fashionable sea-side resort, here called ' The Bluffs,' which is not exactly a thousand miles from the Quaker City. We fancy, too, that some of the characters are portraits. At any event, the story is a downright good one, and shows the author to be a man of decided talent, with the rare faculty of perfect constructiveness." Price for the complete work, in two volumes, in paper cover, One Dollar only; or another edition, handsomely bound in one volume, cloth, gilt, is published for One Dollar and Twenty- five cents. Copies of either edition of the work will be sent to any person, to any part of the United States, free of postage, on their remitting the price of the edition they may wish, to the publishers in a letter. Published and for Sale by T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, No. 306 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. -To whom all Orders should be addressed, post-paid.    HEMLOCK FARM.   THE' OLD STONE MANSION, BY CHARLES    J. PETERSON. AUTHOR OF "KATE AYESFORD," "CRUISING IN THE LAST WAR," "THE VALLEY FARM," "GRACE DUDLEY," ETC., ETC. PHLADELPHA: T. B. PETERSON AND BROTHERS, -306 CHESTNUT STREET. Q3   Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1859, by T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, In the Cierk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.   X CONTENTS. I.-Orphanage, ................           23 r.- Childhood,................................... 29 II.-The Bluffs,       ..................... 36 iv.-The Dance, .................................. 51 v.--A Hero ...............  .............      63 vr.--An Adventure, ......   .,.......*.........  69 VI.-Hart-Burnings,.............................    81 vnIr.-The Dispute, ................................ . 89 Ix.--In the Arbor, ...... ..... ..................... 98 x.-G-eorgiana, ................. ...............  105 xr.-Right or Wrong? .........    ........   117 xrI.-The Old Mansion, ...............       .. 125 xmII.-Mr. Bentley,......  ........................... 137 xiv.-The Closed Chamber,................. ........ 145 xv.-The Lyttletons, ....................... .. 153 xvi.-The Mystery, .............................   167 XVIL.-Sunday in the Country, ....................... 1" xvIII.-Madame Modiste's, .......................... 186 xix.--The Meeting, ............................   195 (21)   22          CONTENTS. xx.-In Society, ................................. 204 xx.--A Night of Horror,..........................  214 xxII.-The Marriage,.............................. 225 xxIII.--Rosalie again, .................. 234 xxIV.--The Summer, .............................. 244 xxv.-The Thunder Storm,..d.....................   254 xxvI.-The Library,................................ 260 xxvII.--"Vengeance is Mine,"....................  270 xxvII.-The Inquest, ................................ 282 xxix.-The New Jerusalem .............  ......  292 xxx.--Homeless, ............  .................... 301 xxxi.-The Good Samaritans, ......*.............. 309 xxxii.-The Flight..................   .......  326 YTIT.--At Hemlock Farm,....................... 333 xxxiv.-Peace and Rest,............................ 348 xxxv.-Farewell, .................................. 358 I*   THE OLD STONE MANSION. CHAPTER I. ORPHANAGE. THE long, dreary journey was over. The whistle of the locomotive ceased to stun my ears, the melan- choly winter fields to rush by, the rattle of the -cars to torture my aching brain. We had entered my uncle's carriage, which had been waiting for us at the depot, and were now rolling through the princi. pal thoroughfares of the great metropolis in which he lived. It was night, but the gas lamps twinkled faintly in the December air, so that I could see my uncle's face, as he sat opposite to mne on the back seat of his carriage. My grief, during the two preceding days, had been so violent, that I had taken but little note of that countenance. Now, however,! looked at it -.         (23)   24     THE OLD STONE MANSION. long and steadily, for which he gave me uncon- sciously the opportunity, by gazing at the streets out. side. He had spoken to me only when necessary, and I was already in some fear of him. I beheld a big, red-faced, impportant-looking-man of nearly fifty, who wore an enormous diamond pin in his shirt front, and kept twirling a huge gold seal that hung from his watch fob: the very incarnation of what I afterward learned to characterize as purse-proud wealth. A cold chill ran through all my veins; it was the premonition of my future destiny. For I was an orphan, and was going to live with this uncle, now my only surviving relative. The tears rushed again to my eyes. I recollected the tender care which had been taken of me till my father died, and we had been compelled to leave the dear old parsonage. I remembered how, even after that event, I had been comparatively happy, though driven to live in lodgings in a narrow street in a great city; for my mother had been with me, and while she survived I could not be wholly miserable. But now that she too was gone, that I had no one left to love me, I felt as if death, young as I was, would be welcome. I shrunk from the pompous, cold-hearted uncle, who had made his appearance ,on the day of the funeral, and chucking me under the chin, had told me not to cry: "I mustn't mind it,   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      25 every body must die some time; it was better for her, as well as me." I tried to recall the look of that seraphic face, as it lay in the coffin, beautiful as it had always been to my eyes, and which had never .seemed so ..beautiful before7 and I cried silently, remembering how- I had sobbed myself to sleep that night, Athinking ofthe cold ground in which they. had laid her. "Mamma, mamma," I said, chokingly- to myself, " oh, let me go with you." But I was careful not to give audible vent to my grief; for although .only six years old, circum- stances had. taught me forethought and, self-control. The carriage stopped at last. .My. uncle got out, leaving me to follow him up the wide, stone steps. A blaze of lights almost blinded ime,as we entered the hall. The door of the parlor was throwna. open by .a man-servant, and. I entered the warm, luxuri- ous apartment, trembling. I could not,. for a moment, raise my eyes from the;floor, for:IX w as always a shy child, and was now really nervous and afraid, . "This is your aunt," my uncle said, ...'and this your cousin.'  I glanced timidly up.  A richly-dressed lady stood before me, holding a little girl, of!about, my own age, by the hand., ,The former nodded to me, half haughtily, half contemptuously; the :ltter clung to her motherl' gown, and looked at me as iif   26     THE OLD STONE MANSION. I had been some strange wild animal. Neither offered me any other welcome. "She's a poor, sickly thing, isn't she?" said my uncle, after a pause. ' "Not a bit like our dear Georgiana. Come and give your father another kiss, my darling," and he took the child up in his arms and walked to the fire, followed by his wife. There was no kiss for me. I was given a home, because it could not be avoided, but welcome there was none, not even pity. My pride, for my pride was born with me, and was, even then, my besetting sin, was up in a moment. Nor was it soothed by what I heard, later in the evening, pass between Mr. and Mrs. Elliott. They were sitting before the grate, with Georgiana slumbering on her father's lap, while I was lying, in another part of the room, unnoticed, curled up in the corner of the sofa. My uncle and aunt, perhaps, thought me asleep. "And you intend to keep the child?" said my aunt, as if continuing a conversation, which had been begun in lower tones. , How can I help it?" he answered in a vexed tone. "I am the nearest relation she has." "Only her father's half-brother." "But the nearest relation still. Then her mother's letter I One can't refuse a dying mother's request? What would every body say?"   THE OLD STONE MANSION.    . 27 "Was there nothing left?" "Hardly enough to pay the expenses of the, fune- -ral. Tom was always extravagant; and when he died, his family would have bee 1penniless, but for a small purse made-up by his engregation." -"Both him and his wife were poor, helpless things. I never saw Mrs. Gray but once, and then she looked like skim-milk," said the portly Mrs. Elliott, contemptuously. "Yet many people thought her pretty." "Humph!" ejaculated his spouse, drawing up her skirt, so as to expose her foot, with which she began to tap the fender. "But she was visionary, very visionary," my uncle hastened to add. "If it had not been for her, Tom might have been something. I always gave her the credit of persuading him to go into the min- istry. If he had taken to trade, as I did, or even become a lawyer, as he originally expected, he might have recovered the fortunes of his family." "And not left his child to be brought up by char- ity," said Mrs. Elliott. "I wish to goodness he had I If it wasn't for what people would say, I'd wash my hands of it. She's an obstinate, sullen little thing; that I see clearly. But it's high time she was put to bed." And she rose, rung the bell, and ordered the servant to take me away.   28     THE OLD STONE MANSION. My room was lonely and cheerless, away up at the top of the house. In my ascent to it, I passed the large and luxurious chamber which my aunt and uncle occupied, and where my cousin slept in a pretty little crib by their bed-side. An errand called the maid, who had me in charge, into this apartment for a moment. The soft velvet carpet, the crimson curtains, the wood fire blazing on the hearth, gave it such a warm, home-like air, that the bare, cold floor of my room and the curtainless bed, seemed to me moreo cheerless even than they were; and the tears, restrained down stairs, fell fast and thick, as I undressed. "What a funny child it is," I heard one of the maids say to another, with a laugh, for a second servant had joined us, no doubt from curiosity. 4 "She puts her stockings into her shoes, and each shoe in its place, under the chair, just like a little old maid." "She's had to look out for herself, that's plain," said. the other, " and isn't like Miss Georgy down stairs." -"I wonder what beggar's brat it is?" My heart was full. It was as much as I could do to keep down the. choking sobs. When I had undressed, I wastempted, for a moment, to get into bed, without first kneeling down, as my mother had   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     29 taught me, to say my prayers, for I felt, instinc- tively, that the maids would laugh at me. But after a short struggle, I slipped down at the side of the bed and began. One of the servants broke into tittering. This disturbed me so, that I forgot what I had to say. I could only remember one sentence of my old prayer, and that was no longer applicable: "God bless mamma and make her well;" and at this, my little remaining composure gave way, I burst into audible sobbing, and in that state was lifted into bed by the less giddy of the two maids. Here I buried my head in the covers and: wept my self to sleep. Such was my first night in my uncle's house, Such was the the beginning of my real orphanage; for, while my mother lived, though I was fatherless, and often cold and hungry, I had some one who I knew loved me. CH'APTER II. CRfHTTrnOOD. I LOOK back on the years spent in my uncle's house and wonder how I survived them. I was made to fel, in every way, thet I was an alien and   80     THE OLD STONE MANSION. incumbrance there. My uncle, perhaps, was less blamable than any of the others; was, indeed, igno. rant of many of the indignities put upon me; but even he never loved me. His wife disliked and tyrannized over me, for she was one of those na- tures who was jealous by organization, and she hated every body who came into competition, in any way, with Georgiana. As for my cousin, though she had some good qualities, she was spoiled by in" dulgence, and was the tool of her mother. There was not an hour in the day that I was not made to feel that I was a dependent. The servants, like most of their class, were time-servers, and insulted and abused me, because they saw no one loved me. But the world knew nothing of this. My aunt was too prudent to provoke public opinion against her. She was not ignorant of the wisdom of keep- ing up an appearance of being kind to' her hus- band's orphan niece. I was therefore sent to the same school with Georgiana; and if not dressed as elegantly, still dressed suitably. I ate at the family table, and sat in the family pew. All this, consider- ing the treatment I received in the house, exasper- ated me. I heard my aunt praised for her gene- rosity, when I knew it was a falsehood. My temper became soured; I was regarded as sullen; I thought every body disliked me. I shunned the companion-   THE OLD STONE- MANSION.     31 ship even of girls of my own age. I became indif- ferent to dress, because every body praised Georgi- ana, and nobody praised me. I went by the name of sloven. I recall the weary, weary days at school, where I heard other girls talking of their happy homes, when I had -none. I even see, sometimes, in fancy, a tall, thin, awkward, sandy-haired child, whose fingers were, always soiled with ink, and whose hair was often unbrushed, the jest of half her classmates, and the pity of the rest: and I look back on that child, oh! with what inexpressible pity; for I think of myself, in those longand dreary years, as of another person entirely. I was naturally high-spirited. Butl  a  s to bearing every thing, not meekly indeed, but in silence. The worm did not even/turn on-the heel that crushed it. Yes I sometim/es it did. I remem- ber once, that Georgiana had just received a beauti- ful wax doll, a miracle of/ mechanism as it seemedc to me then; and I ventured to take it up, one day, when she was out of the room. How bitterly I thought that no one had ever given me any thing a tithe so beautiful I I was still gazing in wonder on the doll, as I held it in my arms, when my cousin came back. She flew at me in a rage, snatched the doll away, slapped me on the face, and then, though I had not dared to strike her, burst into a passion   82     THE OLD STONE MANSION. of screams, which brought my aunt, the nursery- maid, the house-maid and the footman, all rushing into the room together. Without stopping to in- quire about the facts, my aunt seized me, shook me till I was breathless, and threw me toward the maid, whom she directed to put me to bed supperless, which was accordingly done, the maid telling me, all the while she was undressing me, what a wicked child I was. I brooded over this injustice in silence, but when I saw Georgiana alone, the next day, I could contain myself no longer. For once I rose in rebellion. I called her by every spiteful epithet I could think of, and at last began to beat her. "Oh I if I could only tear off your long ringlets, which your mother and you are so proud of," I said; "if I could only make your face ugly forever." For this, of course, I was punished, and more severely than before. Another time, Georgiana was jeering me about my poverty, and boasting of her father's riches, and of what a great heiress she would be. I had, some- how, picked up certain items in our mutual family history, and I retorted: "Poor as I am," I said, "my father, at least, was a clergyman; and yours," (he was a large grocery merchant,) " is only a miserable pork-dealer." "I'll tell pa thatl" she cried, angrily. "I'll tell him you call him names 1"   THE OLD STONE MANSION1.      33 "Do,"' said I, "and say, %that, while his mother's father ran away with the tories, my mother's grand. father was at Bunker Hill." She was white with rage, for we were both, by this time, old enough to understand our country's history, and unfortunately my taunt was but too true. "And you may say," I continued, pursuing my triumph, " that while one made a fortune by smug. gling tea, the other boarded the ships in Boston harbor and threw the tea overboard." She could not forgive me for this, and   not long after, an opportunity for revenge presented itself. It was the custom, at the school which we at- tended together, to devote one afternoon, each week, to criticising what were called compositions. Every scholar was expected to write an essay the night before, which the teacher, after dinner, criticised in the presence of the whole class. On one occasion the theme assigned us was, "A Mother's Love." I recall, even at this day, the feelings under which I wrote; Often as the image of my mother had been present to me, never before had it come   up so vividly.  It was in an agony of emotion, if I m ay say so, that the words flowed from my pen. When the essay was finished, I remember, I  was still so 2   84     THE OLD STONE MANSION. X    excited, that I clasped my hands, and sobbed, "Oh I mother, dear mother, come and take me away 1" When the class had assembled, the teacher, ad- dressing me, said, "Did you write this yourself, Margaret Gray?" "Yes, ma'am," I replied She looked at me doubtfully, for a moment, and then began to praise the composition, when Georgi- ana rose from her seat and interrupted her. "Please, ma'am," said my cousin, "Margaret didn't write it. I saw her copy it out of some big book in father's library." I was struck dumb with amazement. I knew that Georgiana was not always truthful, but, as yet, I had only heard her tell falsehoods to escape blame. The deliberate malice of this assertion, and its un- blushing coolness, literally confounded me. I stared at her with an amazement, that was mistaken for the consciousness of guilt. The teacher's face grew dark. "Margaret Gray," she said, severely, "I knew you were sullen, slovenly, and sometimes disobedi- ent; but I did not think you would tell a deliberate lie." She paused an instant, for I turned white with rage. "Yes! I use plain words," she went on, " for, to pretend another's work is your own, is the wickj edest of lies. You will stay in for an hour after the school is dismissed, and wear, all the week, while,   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      85 In school, a white paper pinned on your back, with the word 'liar' printed on it." I made no reply. I tried at first, to speak, but could not; I choked. If, at that moment, I could have got at my cousin, with a deadly instrument, I believe I would have killed her., I was, after this, a marked girl, in that school. I avoided my classmates, in consequence, more than ever. Before -this, I had taken some pride in com- position; but now  I wrote carelessly on purpose. Often, when I detected  Georgiana copying her essays, which had always been her habit, I was tempted to betray her; but I resisted.  "No," I said, "I will not be so mean." At last; I grew so unhappy at school, and so defiant and indifferent, that I  was dismissed as an example. My  aunt, at first, refused to send me to another; she said it was wasting money, and that I might "'reap as I had sown;" for she was fond of quoting Scripture. My uncle humphed, twirled his watch-keys, and looked at Georgiana with an expression that said, "Thank heaven, our child is different." But after awhile, an. other school was found for me, where I finished my education. It pains me, even yet, to think of those days. Often and often I  wished, with bitter tears, that I had never been born. I heard at church, and I  read in my Bible, that there was a God, all-power-   86     THE OLD STONE MANSION. ful and good; but sometimes I did not believe it. "He would not permit such injustice," I said. If it had not been for my mother, I should have become, literally, an atheist. But I still remembered her early instructions, I still cherished the hope of meeting her in a better world. Sometimes, in dreams, I would even see her: we would walk by cool waters, under waving trees, in green meadows; she would smile on me as of old; and I would be supremely happy. From these dreams I would be aroused by the harsh voice of the servant, calling me to rise; and I would have to get up in the dim, early daylight, and dress on the bare floor, in my fireless room. CT A PTER III. THE BLUFFS. WHEN I was about sixteen, an event happened, which gave me the first happy hours I had ever spent in my uncle's house. A new daughter was born to the family. The babe came after such a long interval, and when the hope of so great a bless- ing had ceased for years, that, for a time, it softened   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      37 and refined all. From the first, the child took a great fancy to me, a fancy which, I need not sav, I returned. My heart, so long shut out from  love, lavished all its treasures on this little darling. I can never think of her, even now, without happy tears. She was, in some-respects, a precocious child. I remember the wonder with which I recognized the first gleams of intellect in, her, when, one day, as I carried her in my arms, she pointed to some flowers on the paper-hangings, and on my stopping, picked out, with instinctive taste, those that were really the most beautiful. From that hour I watched the rapid development of her mind with intense pleasure. Long before she could talk, I began to tell her little stories, which I am sure she comprehended. She fell sick, and it was I that nursed her, day and night, till she recovered. The first moment of extatic hap. piness I had known since my orphanage, was when she was strong enough, she put her arms around my neck, kissed me, and called me "dear Maggy." She was a demonstrative child at all times. Oh! hlow sweet was the patter of those tiny feet, as she tod- dled along the entry, early on summer mornings, to ask to be taken into my bed. It was about this time that Georgiana came back from the fashionable boarding-sclhool, where she had been "finishing." Shb returned with unbounded   88     THE OLD STONE MANSION. notions of figuring in the fashionable world. The very first day, at dinner, she was shocked, or pre- tended to be, at the old-fashioned crumb-brush which the waiter used. "Dear me 1" she said, "you must have a silver crumb-scraper, to-morrow: nobody, that is anybody, has that vulgar affair." . The case-knife, with which her mother cut the pie, horrified her even more. A silver pie-knife, she said, was indis- pensable, if we didn't wish to be considered Hotten- tots. My uncle's house was large and elegant, and in a thoroughfare that had once been the St. Ger- mains of the city, but as he had occupied it for twenty years, other streets had since become more fashionable. - Nothing would do but that we should move. "Live in Brick street!" shrieked Georgiana; "why, pa, we'll never get back into society, at all. You and mna have given up going out, ever since I was born, and people have forgot you. We must recover our position. Nobody will come to our par- ties, if we don't move into Sandstone street." To this would-be aristocratic quarter, accordingly, we repaired. My uncle also bought a new carriage and horses, and had the Elliott crest mounted on the harness. He would have gone further, and ernbla- zoned the family arms on the panels, if Georgiana had not interfered. She had already discovered that our fashionable neighbors generally were not entitled   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     39 'to coat armor, and that, in consequence, they voted it vulgar for any body whatever to display it. '"We may as well not make enemies at the start," she said, with more shrewdness than I had thought her ca- pable of. "When we get an established position, we can do as we please." With her father's wealth, and tact like this, Georgiana had no difficulty in re- establishing their footing "in society." I rarely made my appearance at my aunt's parties, and then only as a quiet spectator, hidden away in a corner. Georgiana and her mother were soon engaged in leaving cards with every body, which cards every body returned twice a year; for this, with a word exchanged at a party, was the intimacy, which, I discovered, made one your "dear friend" in the fashionable world.  The entertainments of the Elliotts very speedily acquired celebrity, for no ex- pense was spared, and Georgiana had a peculiar knack in getting them  up. Her bouquets were always the choicest of the season; she sent to the South for strawherries in advance; and the dealers in game would tell you, the day after one of her balls, that "snipe, or terrapin, warn't to be had, no-' how, at no price: they'd all been bought up for Mr. Elliott's great party." The humanizing influence whiche little Rosalie brought with her, did not entirely die out. When   40    'THE OLD STONE MANSION. she was in her fourth summer, the family, on her account, was ordered to the sea-shore. Annually, ever since I had lived at my uncle's, my aunt and Georgiana had gone out of town in the summer: now to Newport; now to Saratoga; now to Niagara; now to Lake George. But as invariably I had been left at home. Now, however, in consequence of Rosalie's attachment to me, I had to be asked to ac. company her. It was determined we should go to the Bluffs. The Bluffs, perhaps, is a place my readers have never heard of: and if so, it is their misfortune; at least those who annually visit the Bluffs, and con- sider it the paragon of watering-places, would say so. If Newport is a gay, young belle, coquetting with wealth and fashion, the Bluffs is a well-join- tured dowager, turning up its aristocratic nose at strangers. Time was when the Bluffs, remotely sit- uated on the sea-coast, had been almost inaccessible, and when few families, except those who kept carri- ages, could be found there. Those were the days of its glory. It had then, in the self-satisfied opinion of its patrons, been more than fashionable: it had been exclusive, which, in their parlance, meant emi- nently genteel. It was the one solitary place, in this democratic country, where the benefits of sea- bathing might be enjoyed, secure from contact with   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      41 the vulgar crowd. The primitive character of the accommodations only heightened its intense respect- ability: its narrow, penitentiary-like chambers; its cracked wash-basins; its carpetless floors; its surly landlord. The refinements of life might be neces- sary to upstarts, complacently thought its visitors, but not for those who patronized the Bluffs. When railroads came in, when new and handsome hotels were built, when guests no longer had to bring down their own silver forks; in short, when civili- zation began to reach the Bluffs, and people, in con- sequence, flocked to it in thousands, the pristine virtues of the place were considered, by its ancient friends, as departed, and mourned over accordingly. But most of these primeval visitors continuedto re- sort to it. They could not, they -found, ventilate their exclusiveness in any atmosphere less impure. Old fogy physicians still sent old fogy patients there. Old maids had been going to the Bluffs so long that they were at home nowhere else. They all la- mented, in concert, the evil times on which the Bluffs had fallen; they vowed and protested, year after year, that they could never let themselves down   to coming again; but they invariably re- turned, da twelvemonth after to the day, with the same old carriages, the same old pride, and the same old complaints, to occupy the same old rooms, and ^ !   42     THE OLD STONE MANSION. grumble at- the same old grievances. But they could never learn to mix with the new visitors, for nobody could be genteel, they thought, who could not show twenty years of visiting at the Bluffs. Had General Washington come to life, and gone there, he would have been cut as a snob. They were fossils of the old Red Sandstone: they could not be found in any later formation than -the Bluffs. They lived in their own sets entirely. If a stranger addressed them, a stare of surprise was the answer. To play at games, to dance, to have charades, to do any thing different from their old hum-drum life, horrified them; they looked at each other in dismay, and asked if the world was coining to an end. The motive of my aunt, in selecting the Bluffs, was to accompany the Frigids, whom she had been paying court to for a year, and who had at last condescended to patronize her. In the opinion of the Frigids, there had never been but one family, and theirs was it. All other beings belonged to an inferior species. The Frigids moved through life like human icebergs. When they approached, the atmosphere cooled instantaneously. Children at play stopped, frozen into silence, when the Frigids went by. The Frigids had a chronic fear that somebody would make their acquaintance who oughtn't to, and they were always on guard against such a catas.   'THE OLD STONE MANSION.     43 trophe. As they could not live entirely alone, they condescended to speak to a few, a very few people, but it was with an air that said, "We tolerate y but only tolerate you, remember." They were tolerating my aunt. The Bluffs offered but two sorts of recreation, at least so the boarders seemed to think, sea-bathing and gossiping. The first consumed about an hour every morning: the last was the amusement of the remainder of the day. I had heard Georgiana and her mother pick their neighbors to pieces occasion- ally; but I had never known till now what gossip really was. Before a new guest had found time to register his or her name, his or her antecedents, back to the flood, were in every body'S mouth. "Who is she?" was the question constantly asked, but never "What is she?" As I sat unnoticed in the drawing. room, I overheard continually, amid the buzz of tongues, such remarks as these: "How badly that dress hangs!" "What a  fright she is!" "See the airs the Snooks' take on themselves, and they nobody!" "There's that Mrs. Opal with another new dress on I I wonder if her husband can afford it-poor man I he looks dreadfully worried;" "How that creature flirts! it's shameful in a married woman ;" "Isn't Mrs. Cheval fixed-up, to be sure!"Occasionally gleams of wit would break out from some sarcastic girl.   THE OLD STONE MANSION. ' What a hoop that widow has I she's all paint and powder: I never see her come down, but I say to tmyself, 'is not this great Babylon that I have builded?'" "The younger Miss Frigid is said to be a reeable, but it's hardly worth while to crack so thick a shell to get at so little a kernel." "Mrs. O:hre pretty? Not with that complexion! Why, she looks as if she had been  buried a week, and then dug up." "If fat women, with faces like washed veal, only wouldn't wear white! there's Mrs. Weighte looks like Jack Falstaff playing the ghost in Hamlet." In vain I shifted my seat. Go where I would, the buzz and malice were the same. There was a great contrast between Georgiana and myself. The gay and dazzling heiress dressed in the height of the fashion, and, though not beauti- ful, had a figure that made up stylishy: she was accordingly surrounded by admirerS, and imitated and envied by her own sex. I had, long since, grown out of my slovenly days, but I dressed with studious plainness, for I had but a scanty allowance; and as I was passionately fond of books, a good deal went for them. The thought of any one caring for me never suggested itself to meas possible. Gener- ally, I disliked gentlemen. What had I in common with the red-faced gluttons who dined at my uncle's table, or the silly dandies who came to dance at Geor.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.   giana's balls? What I saw at the Bluffs, did not increase my estimate of men. The younger por- tion were divided into two classes. One smoked short clay pipes, affected a half-jockey costume, and talked of little else than the number of rats their terriers could kill. The others dressed in the height of the fashion, were always caressing their straw- colored gloves, and said, with an affected lisp, "Aw, yesl a foine day: I'm doing nicely, thank you, aw." With neither of these varieties had I any sympathy. Consequently, I sat alone in society, idly looking on, or more often absoaed in my thoughts and observing nothing. Half the time I did not see the dances, nor hear the music. I felt no surprise, therefore, when I discovered, accidentally, that the retiring young girl, who stole silently to her seat at the table, and to whom a servant, when the dessert came in, brought Mrs. Elliott's child, that she might give it its dainty allowance of ice-cream, and see that it got no more, was a nursery gov- erness, and ate at the first table in this capacity. I only smiled to myself. What did I care, I said, what was thought about me? I used to sit in an arbor that overlooked the sea, and read by the hour; and this confirmed the gene- ral impression as to my position. It was the first time I had ever seen the ocean, an event in any one's    "    THE OLD STONE MANSION. life. I never tired of looking at the waves break- ing on the beach below; at the white sails in the offing; at the sea-eagles hovering over the surf; or at the fishermen launching their boats. Moonlight especially had a charm inexpressible for me. It filled me, with a sense of a different existence. One stormy night, when the spray was blown over the lawn to the very hotel, and when nobody but the bather ventured out, and he only to assure himself that the bathing-houses were not being washed away, I wrapped myself in a thick shawl, and stole forth. Never shall I forget the scene, as the great waves, magnified by the darkness, heaved up out of the gloom, and thundered, whitening, down, shaking the very shore. When I returned, a gene- ral sneer went round: and I heard more than one whisper of "Wants to be thought romantic," "I wonder Mrs. Elliott permits it." One of the most assiduous admirers of Georgiana was an Englishman, handsome, and about thirty, and who had, in great perfection, that air and man- ner which belongs to good society. His dress was studiously unostentatious, and his sole jewelry, a magnificent seal ring. He had a low, exquisitely modulated voice, which it was a pleasure to listen to, irrespective of the words he uttered. Few men had equal tact in conversation. He seemed to read   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      47 character intuitively, and talked accordingly. With Georgiana his conversation was principally of the great people whom -he knew abroad. To believe him, he was intimate with Lord John Russell, then prime minister of Great Britain; knew Louis Na- poleon, just elected Prince President, intimately; had drunk Johannisberg at Metternich's own table; was once invited to Russia on some secret but im- portant business, of Nicholas; and had been pre- sented at every Court in Europe. As to the aristoc- racy of England, from the Dukes of Norfolk and Devonshire down, he pretended to be either person- ally acquainted with them, or to know from reliable hearsay all about them. He certainly had a fund of anecdote and gossip, especially respecting the female members of the British nobility, which, if not true, was at least amusing. I used to hear him discourse, by the hour, on those themes; for they were favorite ones with Georgiana. I soon began to suspect that he was a mere adventurer. Georgiana, however, did not think so. More than once we had a warm discussion regarding him. "I've no patience with you, Margaret," she said, one day. "How   could Mr. Despencer know  so much about the British nobility, if he was not one of their Eet? Then his voice! It is the very ideal of a finished English gentleman's."   48     THE OLD STONE MANSION. "His voice is well modulated, I admit," was my reply. "But I miss the drawl which is said to be conventional in the upper circles of English society." "Oh! it's only the fops that have that," quickly interposed ny cousin. "PossibrJy. But to go back to his knowledge of the nobility. He has only to study Burke's Peer- age, of which even you have a copy." Georgiana was quite indignant. She still in- sisted, however, that I should play propriety for her, by going down into the drawing-room; and as the bathing hour had arrived, and every body was going to the beach, she gave a last look in the mir- ror at her becoming morning dress, for this conver- sation happened in her room. Then she lounged down stairs, book in hand. I was provoked, for I wished myself to bathe that morning, especially as Rosahe was to go in with her nurse. My indignation increased, while I listened to the fulsome compliments which her admirer paid to my cousin, particularly when he said that she re- minded him of the Lady Clementina Villiers, with whom he had danced at Almacks the preceding winter. I sat nervously knitting my purse, eager to speak my mind: and at last an opportunity offered. The talk fell on manner, which the gentleman pro.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      49 nounced an infallible test of high breeding, "and which," he said, with a bow, "you have in perfec- tion, Miss Elliott." Georgiana blushed, simpered, and to cover her confusion, turned her fan toward me; saying, "My cousin, here, goes so far as to assert that one can tell, by the accent, what particular nation and' pro- vince a stranger belongs to." Her- admirer could do nothing less, at this, than turn toward me. He had seen me, I have no doubt, a score of times; but had never condescended to be aware, by any visible sign, that I existed. Now, however, he smiled blandly, saying: "Ah  Miss, I fear you are a critic. But let us put your penetration to a test. Come, now: in what part of England was I born?" There was a latent sneer under his assumption of deference and admiration; and I answered, bluntly: "Indeed, sir, you are a sphinx. You don't talk like a cockney, for instance. And it can't be said of you, as a pert Oxonian wrote back to his college, the day after he had dined at a great London nabob's, ' we had all the delicacies of the season at table, except the letter h.' Nor have you the'silly drawl which I've been told the upper classes have affected till it has grown to be a second habit. Nor Obt o    60     THE OLD STONE MANSION. the Yorkshire accent, for Mr. Elliott's coachman is a Yorkshireman; and he doesn't pronounce as you do. I heard a Gloucestershire man, only the other day; and you're not a Gloucestershire man. In fact," said I, looking at him with a sudden suspicion, called up by this discussion, "you talk precisely like an ordinary New Yorker." To my surprise, he shot a quick look of inquiry at me, and colored in embarrassment. But it was only for a moment. He forced a laugh and answered, gayly, "Well done. You literary ladies, after all, beat our sex in the delicacy of your compliments. For to be an educated American and an educated En- glishman, Miss Elliott," he said, bowing to Georgi- ana, "is to be precisely the same thing." By one of those strange instincts, which we some- times experience, I felt, at that moment, that a third party was listening to this episode. I glanced aside, and sure enoughmn a deep arm-chair, half concealed by the lace curtans of the window, there sat a gen- tleman, who, though apparently absorbed in a book before him, wore such a quiet, significant smile on his face, that I knew he had overheard us. I was annoyed, for I had a suspicion he was silently laugh- ing at the warmth of my retort. Just then he rose from his seat, and his eyes, as he turned away,   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     51 rested on me for an instant. I felt the blood rush to my brow. He evidently saw my mortification, for he looked immediately toward Georgiana and her admirer; and the latter, now first observing him, turned as white as ashes. Somehow, for the rest of that day, I could not get this stranger out of my mind. I had seen him only for a second; but I knew his every feature, and the air with which he carried himself. A massive head, eagle eyes, a mouth firm as a martyr's, a lofty man- ner, a powerful frame; intellect, strength and manli- ness; these were the qualities he impressed me as possessing beyond any other man I had ever seen. CHAPTER    IV. THE DANCE. THAT night there was a dance. Strange to say, br the first time in my life, I was fastidious about ny dress. But as I had only a white muslin and lue barege to choose from, I was not long in oming to a decision. I selected the former. My air was dressed 2 la (recque. Before going down ;airs, I went into my cousin's room, to see if I could ,.1   THE OLD STONE MANSION. assist her. She was in high good-humor, having on a new and beautifully-fitting dress; and looked at me in unaffected surprise. "Why, Maggy," she cried, "you are really charm- ing. You always dress so old-maidish, that one doesn't know how pretty you grow. There, child, I declare, I've brought quite a color to your cheeks. Isn't she improved, ma?" My aunt, stiff in moire antique, was drawing her gloves on her fat, pudgy hands. She glanced at me and replied, "Your cousin will always be odd, Georgy. See how queerly she has dressed her hair." I knew, from the tone, that my aunt was dis- pleased; perhaps thought my coiffure pretentious; and the pleasure of the evening was spoilt. Nobody spoke to me for a long while. I sat on a chair, in one corner, and watched the matrons gos- siping in groups, and their daughters whirling around in the waltz; all seemed enjoying them- selves-I only was unhappy. After awhile, an elderly single lady came up, who lived on gossip. "I don't see Miss Elliott's English beau," she said. 4"Somebody told me, too, he left this afternoon. Do you know any thing about it?" I had not heard of his departure, and was sur- prised; for he had expected to remain several weeks   longer. But I was so indignant at this impertinent attempt to elicit information regarding Georgiana's affairs, that I suppressed my curiosity to learn what my companion knew, changed the conversation, and directly after rose and left her. The atmosphere in the drawing-room was so heated, that I passed out into the piazza, which run- ning the whole length of the hotel, was used for a public promenade, especially on evenings. It was now almost as crowded as the drawing-room, for a waltz had just been finished, and the dancers were parading, two and two, up and down, gayly chatting and laughing. Having no one to walk with, I stopped at a chair near one of the windows, so that I could look in. I had scarcely taken my seat, when I saw the gentleman who had heard our conversa. tion in the morning, cross the room to speak to an acquaintance, who was concealed behind the cur- tains of the window, outside of which I sat. After mutual expressions of delight and surprise, at meet- ing each other unexpectedly at this place, the latter said, "There are some pretty girls here, Talbot. Are you dancing?" "Dancing isn't much in my line," answered my silent critic of the morning; "and besides I know nobody as yet."    THE OLD STONE MANSION. "Precisely my case. I ran down here for a day or two, merely because it was near. Generally I go to Newport, as you do. But I understand Governor Bright, Senator Clare, Colonel Howard, and others whom we know are here; and they'll introduce us." "To tell the truth," replied he who had been called Talbot, "I don't see any faces here that inte- rest me, except one." "Who is she?" "Who she is I can't say. A governess, I believe. But what she is, you can judge for yourself. She is sitting yonder, in that corner. No," he added in a still lower tone, as he glanced across the room, "she has disappeared." I was within two feet of the speaker, separated from him only by the wall, and heard every word distinctly. My first impulse was to rise. But to have done this-would have attracted his attention. I was compelled, therefore, to remain, though my cheeks tingled. "She must be beautiful," laughed his friend, "if she has attracted you." "Not what a fashionable woman would call beau- tiful, but something more original," was the reply. "She is dressed in a simple white robe, with wavy brown hair worn in ringlets from the back of her head; a tall, stately girl, with great, luminous eyes,   THE OLD STONE MANSION.   65   and a brilliant complexion: a sort of high-souled Diana, stepped down from a pedestal." I was dizzy with a strange delight. I had not only never heard myself called beautiful before, but had never supposed that I was beautiful. "You are enthusiastic," replied Mr. Talbot's friend, in a tone half banter, half surprise. "I must see this paragon." "She's clever, too; clever in the English sense," continued Mr. Talbot. "Whom do you think I found here, when I arrived this morning? That fellow you defended, when I was opposed to you last." "Not Despencer?" "Yes I and passing himself off for an Englishman. I happened to overhear him flirting with a stylish- looking heiress, the daughter, I suspect, of the peo- ple who employ this governess. He was romancing grandly about my lord this, and my lady that, and doing it, I assure you, in a way to impose on nine out of ten, when this young lady, who sat there quietly knitting, but dreadfully annoyed, as I could see, happened to be appealed to." And he briefly narrated what I have already told. "When she had done," he said, "the fellow looked as crest-fallen as he did in the dock. He evidently thought she had heard about him. He caught my eye afterward;    56     THE OLD STONE MANSION. recognized me, and has. disappeared, I've no doubt, for I don't see him here to-night. You know he's a coward." "Cursing you heartily," laughed the other, "for having prevented his trapping an heiress." "Precisely. But he'd have been found out, even if I hadn't come. This Diana of mine would have seen through him before long. If she has culture, as well as intellect and beauty, what a woman she must be 1" "How old is she?" "That's the most curious part of all. Apparently about nineteen. Governesses, you know, are gener- ally old and ugly." "How do you know she's a governess?" "I heard one of these old tabby-cats say to her daughter, a bony, sharp-nosed caricature of herself, ' See what a ridiculous way that girl, the Elliotts' gov- erness, has her hair dressed in.' The heiress, I be- lieve, is a Miss Elliott." Fortunately, at this juncture, a crowd of young people came gallopading down the piazza, and avail- ing myself of the noise, I escaped undetected. Up to that hour of my life, I had said and believed that a woman ought to be more gratified by praise of her intellect than of her person. I now knew better. For the sweetest words I had ever heard were   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     57 Mr. Talbot's declaration that I was -beautiful. A tumult of strange but happy feelings possessed me; I could not remain among the crowd; I stole away to my favorite arbor, at the foot of the lawn, over- looking the sea. There I sat for quite an hour, in a dreamy, delicious revery, listening to the surf breaking on the beach beneath me, and the music of the dancers fitfully rising and falling on the land wind. When I stole back to the drawing-room, I could not, at first, lift my eyes: and my heart fluttered nervously. But the one I dreaded, yet wished to  g see, was not there, nor did he reappear for the rest of the evening. The next morning Georgiana was out of humor: I suppose at the absence of her admirer. I deferred telling her, therefore, as I had intended, whatl had overheard about him. I took a long walk on the beach with Rosalie and her nurse, and when the bathing hour had arrived, told my pet I would watch her from the bank, as-I did not wish myself to go in that day. I was leaving the hotel for this purpose, when my steps were arrested, in the doorway, by the crowd of laughing and talking young girls and their admirers, who blocked it up for the moment. All at once -I observed that Mr. Talbot was near me. One of the young men who had, I suppose, picked   58     THE OLD STONE MANSION. up an acquaintance with him, asked him if he was going to bathe, and on his replying in the negative, the other added, familiarly, "Not used to it, eh? Or a little afraid It's rough, to-day, and will take a good bather." A quiet smile of contempt was the only answer to this ill-bred speech; then the crowd opened, and I pushed through. The crowd flocked after me. Ladies in wrappers; gentlemen in bathing hats; nurses carrying children in long flannel night-gowns: a grotesque medley; but every one in high good-humor. A group near me was talking of Mr. Talbot's refusal. "Afraid, that's it," said his interlocutor. "One of your solemn prigs. Shouldn't wonder if he was a parson on a ticket of leave." At this coarse sally there was a laugh from one or two silly girls. But here another gentleman interposed. "He's not a parson, I'll bet on that; for he looked into the billiard-room, last night, when I was there; and I asked him to play, for all you fellers were dancing and I was deuced hard run----" "And he played?" "Yes I and beat me. Beat me easy I He's some- body, too I let me tell you; for Senator Clare and the governor both came in, staid till the game was   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      59 over, and then took him away with them to talk. They wouldn't do that with any of us fellers. I saw them, an hour after, sitting together in the shadow of the piazza. You'd better not be quite so free-and- easy with him, Jones." "Who. can he be?" cried the young ladies. ' Has any one heard his name?" It is an amusing sight, when fifty or a hundred persons, of all ages, and in every variety of dress, are sporting -in the surf; the young shouting with fun and excitement, the old gravely going through with the bath as if it was the most serious affair in life. One cannot, at first, recognize one's most inti- mate acquaintances. The tall, willowy belle of the drawing-room has lost the cloud-like amplitude of lace and muslin, which distinguished her the night before, and is converted into a walking mummy, in red-and-blue woolen bloomers; an oil-skin cap on her head, no shoes to her feet, her thin person at the mercy of thy breeze. The stately dame, lately com- pressed into that " love of a basque," is revealed in all her huge proportions, and wallows across the sand, toward the surf, in her yellow-brown bathing- dress, quivering all over, like calves-foot jelly. I had taken ae book with me, and after watching the scene awhile, began to read, occasionally looking up to see how Rosalie enjoyed the bath. The little   60     THE OLD STONE MANSION. thing was in high glee, and far out among the breakers; where, catching sight of me, she clapped her tiny hands and laughed. I smiled back, and wished, for the moment, I had bathed too; for the waves came rolling in quick and crisp, and every- body was wild with delight. To shut out the temp- tation I turned again to my book. Suddenly there was a startling cry. I glanced up. The bathers were hurrying in shore: the women screaming; the men pale, but silent. With an instinctive fear I searched the crowd for Rosalie and her nurse. They were not to be seen. But I beheld, beyond the breakers, a woman's form, sinking and struggling; I caught the gleam of a child's golden hair; and I heard the cry " They are drown. ing!" repeated by half a score of voices, all in one breath. Yet though there were twenty men among  the bathers, every one was hastening in shore, the boastful Jones leading the terrified pack, and actually treading down helpless females in his way. I sprang to my feet, and with a wild cry was rushing to the bank, when a strong arm restrained me. It was that of Mr. Talbot. At any other time his presence would have em- barrassed me, but now I thought only of Rosalie. "Ohl save her," I cried, clasping my hands, "save her 1"   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     6 He seemed to comprehend every thing at once. Throwing off his coat, he leaped down the bank, ran swiftly across the beach, denuding himself of cravat and vest as he went; stopped an instant on the edge of the surf to remove his shoes, and plunged in. The next moment he was far out among the breakers. I watched him breathlessly.  He reached the nurse just as she was going down for the last time, caught her, and turned to come in. But at that instant, an enormous-billow swept over them, and the whole three went under. Twenty voices were speaking at once. I heard every one of them, and recognized most of the speakers, though I never took my eyes from the breakers. The nurse was being censured by all. She had been warned, one said, not to go out so far, but had disregarded everybody, and had finally got into a hole, and lost her footing, and with it her presence of mind. A current, which ran just outside the breakers, another added, had swept her, in a moment after, far beyond her depth. Mr. Talbot, one of the gentlemen said, was in this current now, and would never get out of it alive, "for I saw the nurse," he continued, " catch him about the neck as he went down." A bystander suggested that if a boat could be launched, something might yet be   62     THE OLD STONE MANSION. done. But a dozen voices answered that there were no fishermen about, and that nobody else could steer a boat through the surf; besides, the nearest boat was three hundred yards off. The attempt to save the nurse and child, another declared, had been mad- ness from the first. It was the craven Jones that spoke thus, for I recognized his voice. Hours seemed to elapse while these things were being said. But the drowning persons did not re- appear. The great wave which had carried them under, rushed shoreward, and spent itself at the very feet of the fugitives. Another, and another came racing in. Suddenly, in a trough of the sea, far out, I saw an arm dashed upward; it held aloft a child's form, which I recognized as Rosalie's, and it was followed immediately by Mr. Talbot. His face was full of stern resolution; but he seemed quite exhausted, and he turned eagerly to note how far he was from the shore. My heart beat wild and fast. Oh! would no one go to their aid? Could he make any headway? Yes I! he did. He struck boldly out; he rode that incoming wave triumphantly; he was already twenty feet nearer to the beach. Alas I for human hope. At that moment, I saw three or four gigantic rollers rushing after him, their lofy fronts towering higher and higher as they ap-   THE OLD STONE MANSION      63 proached. The foremost was close upon him. It paused ominously, piling itself up and upi away into the sky. Suddenly, a streak of foam shot along its crest; a sound like thunder followed, as the tons of water descended; and the brave face disap- peared, and with it Rosalie. The succeeding waves rolled swiftly in, and broke over the boiling gulf; and every thing swam around me. CHAPTER V. A HERO. BY this time a hundred people had collected on the beach, the hotel emptying itself as if by magic. Suddenly there was a shout, accompanied by a name passed from mouth to mouth. I looked around. Five or six fishermen, who had chanced to be in the bar-room, had come running to the scene. At their head was one famous for having rescued, the preced- ing winter, more than a hundred persons from a single wreck. The ship had gone ashore, at night- fall, during a violent snow-storm; and before morn- ing dawned, half of her human freight had perished.   "    THE OLD STONE MANSION. When the cold, misty day broke, the people on ehe shore first became aware of her exact position, though they had heard, all night, guns firing, and, they thought, shrieks and cries for help, in the pauses of the gale. At first no one would venture out, for the surf was mountains high. At last the fisherman I have spoken of came up, and offered to go, if a boat's crew would volunteer. His reputa- tion for daring and skill was such that half a dozen men stepped forward immediately. Three times they attempted, in vain, to launch through the breakers. The fourth effort was successful; but the boat stood, for a moment, almost perpendicular, before the stout arms within it got the mastery. I remember how my heart swelled, and the tears rushed to my eyes, when I was told of this heroic act. "And had he no family," I said, "the thought of whom deterred him?" "It was that, on the contrary, which influ- enced him most," was the reply. "He said that when a father saw women and children drowning before his eyes, it made him think how he would feel if his own little ones were wrecked." He had dashed into the surf, before I saw him, and now stood, looking back for an instant, telling his companions to join hands with him and to form a line. The red shirt he wore was open at the throat, revealing a chest like that of the Farnese   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      65 Hercules; his face was the color of bronze; his dark hair was blown about by the wind: I shall never, to my dying hour, forget that picture, as it stood out, in bold relief, against the green back-ground of the sea. His look of high courage, his vast physical strength, the halo of his past deeds, restored me back to hope. I saw all this in a single moment. Then my eyes sought again the spot where Rosahe had disappeared. Was that her rescuer? Yes, thank God    And others saw him also, for shouts arose on every hand, "There they are!" "How bravely he swims!" "They are saved, they are saved!" What followed, seems to me, even yet, like a wild dream. I saw the line of fishermen extending out into the breakers, their leader standing at their head, like a rock, while the waves rushed over him; I saw the swimmer swept in with the velocity of lightning; I saw that he car. ried a child; and I was in the surf, waist deep, before I knew it, laughing and crying hysterically; and then I held Rosalie in my arms, the first to receive her, and was assisted, almost carried to shore, by one of the fishermen. They told me afterward that the nurse was quite insensible when they dragged her in; and that Mr. Talbot said, that it was the desperation with which she clung to him, that had pulled him under and   "    THE OLD STONE MANSION. kept him there. "Had I not shaken her off," he added, "the whole three of us would have perished." Fortunately for her, a huge roller had flung her within reach of the fishermen, just after the other two were saved. We were in too excited a state to make our apl pearance again that day. Even Georgiana forgot her flirtations, excused herself from a drive, and sat, with her mother and myself, in Rosalie's room. Mr. Elliott had gone to the city; but when he returned at night, he hurried up to us, pale and breathless, and remained, for the whole evening, holding his child's hand and tenderly regarding her. The next morning I was the first of our party down; and was beset by inquiries. Before I could extricate myself, I saw a now well-known form come in. Mr. Talbot, for it was his, recognized me quite across the room; our eyes met; and he was ap- proaching to speak, when my uncle, entering, stopped him. I thought I detected annoyance in Mr. Talbot's face, at my uncle's pompous gratitude; certainly his look brightened up wonderfully when the set speech was over. The breakfast bell had now sounded, and the crowd was moving toward the dining-room, bearing me with it. Mr. Talbot and I were thrown together, for an instant, at the door. He held out his hand,   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      67 as if he had known me for years, asking after Ro- salie. I told him that she was as well as ever now, and added how much we all thanked him for what he had done. He smiled in reply, saying he had only performed a duty, and then we parted to go to our different seats; but there was something in the smile, which kept me, during all that meal, in a flut- ter of strange happiness. I was in Georgiana's room, just before dinner, as- sisting my cousin to complete her toilet, and my aunt was looking magisterially on, when there was a knock at the door, and my uncle entered, redder than ever in the face and puffing with the labor of coming up stairs. He plunged down on the frail bedstead, all the chairs being occupied, till it creaked under him, exclaiming, as he mopped his brow, "I've got news for you, Georgy. Who do you think this Mr. Talbot is?" "I'm sure I don't know, papa. But he's hand. some; and a hero: how lovely he'd look in uni- form!" I bit my lip to conceal a smile. My uncle went on. "Pooh! pooh I All stuff about hero and regi. mentals. He's the Mr. Talbot, the famous Mr. Tal- bot, the ablest lawyer of his years in his city, as Senator Clare has just told me." And the handker-   68     THE OLD STONE MANSION. chief was used, this time, to fan his face. "I thought I recognized him. When I was over there, two years ago, I heard him at a public meeting; it was about the Hungarians; Kossuth, you know, was expected then; and he actually made me cry." "Made you cry?" said Georgiana, opening her Juno-like eyes, and laughing a light laugh of incre- dulity. "Yes! Nor was I the only one. You needn't shake your head, you puss; Do you think we old fellows have no feelings?" The only reply was a shrug of the pretty shoulders, which were unusually bare to-day. For some reason, indeed, my cousin had taken great pains with her toilet. My uncle paused as if half ashamed of his confession, and then went on. "But this gentleman is rich too, very rich; needn't practice if he didn't want to. I tell you what, Georgy," and he looked at her seriously, "you'd better give up flirting and set your cap for him." "I intend to," said my cousin, gayly, rising as she spoke, "and I'll bet you, pa, that I succeed." She tapped his cheek with her fan. "Is it done?" "The day you are Mrs. Talbot," was the reply, "I'll give you ten thousand dollars in diamonds." "Will you, you precious old papa?" cried Georgi.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      69 ana, and she fairly took his head in her hands and kissed him, a feat I had not seen her perform, in full dress, for years. CHAPTER   VI. AN ADVENTURE. GEORGIANA carried out her threat. It gave me a new idea of her intellect, if I may call it such, to see the tact with which she adapted herself to Mr. Talbot's tastes. Their intimacy progressed rapidly. Though he was a hero in the eyes of all the young ladies, and, therefore, welcomed by each with smiles, she- seemed, by some art known only to herself, to be able to while him away at will. I own to having myself been, more than once, secretly annoyed at the successful nonchalance with which she would ap- proach, when Mr. Talbot was conversing with me, make some gay remark, and finally carry him off triumphantly. There is a manner acquired by per- sons who live much in society, which is often more serviceable than higher mental qualities. This   70     THE OLD STON$; MANSION. Georgiana possessed in perfection. Her taste in dress also was exquisite, and her means of gratify- ing it unlimited. "Your cousin looks like a picture," Mr. Talbot said to me one evening, as Georgiana floated into the drawing-room, her light, voluminous robes fall- ing cloud-like about her. "She has the rare gift of knowing precisely what will become her; and in that respect is a true artist." At other times he would praise what he called her feminine nature. "She seems to love all things that are beautiful," he once said. "It is, as de- veloped in her, a purely feminine characteristic. I often think, that, to the extent to which a woman has it, is she truly womanly. Men, instinctively, seek turmoil and strife; they delight in something to conquer; and the best of them, I believe, prefer those women who are most entirely their opposites." One morning, Georgiana appeared with her hair brushed back from her face, and wearing a light- colored robe, that opened in front, displaying a superbly embroidered skirt: the robe was trimmed with cherry-colored ribbons, and became her magi- cally. "She looks like a French marquise of the last century," said Mr. Talbot. "What a high-bred air! One would think she had walked out of a picture   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      71 by 'Greuze.' I must go and talk to her, and fancy I am in the Little Trianon, in the first years of Marie -Antoinette." These conversations always left a pang behind them. In vain I chided myself in secret; in vain I said I was envious: I could not prevent a feeling of pain whenever Mr. Talbot thus eulogized Georgiana. I, who knew her so well, could not understand the glamour which she seemed to have cast over him. Yet there were occasions when I doubted if Mr. Talbot cared for her. I could not forget what I had overheard him say about myself. And his manner to me, though not the least like that of lovers I had read of, was such as often to set my heart beating. It was different, at all times, from what it was to Georgiana. It had a high and knightly bearing, an under-current of acknowledged sympathy, which I never observed in his manner to her. To my cousin he talked of fashion, the topics of society, European travel, the opera, the Springs: with me his themes were of a loftier character; and I could not but be flattered by the distinction. Art, literature, social progress, heroic souls, deeds that would live forever: these were the subjects we discussed. Ah 1 how his eye kindled, how his voice deepened with enthu- siasm, as he spoke of the great dead; men, who had lived, not for their -own selfish aggrandizement, but   72     THE OLD STONE MANSION. for the good of mankind; martyrs and patriots, who, in the cause of country or of God, had taken their lives in their hands, and gone forth to do battle with the Apollyon of their age. It was at such times, that, looking at the rigid mouth, and eye that chal- lenged defiance, I felt that he also could die for what he thought the right, yes Il could pluck his own heart out, if need be. But I was not foolish enough to think he loved me. Whenever an hour had been spent with him peculiarly agreeable, or whenever he seemed to pre- fer my society to Georgiana's, I used to say to my- self, when I was alone in my room: "Margaret Gray, don't be silly; gentlemen, even the best of them, like to amuse themselves with girls: you must not suppose, because Mr. Talbot talks to you, that he forgets you are poor." Yet, as soon as we met again, I ceased to remem- ber this. I learned to detect his footstep, before he was in sight; to know him, by his gait, when he was so far off that I could hardly distinguish him. Once or twice he had joined me, in the customary ramble which I took, at sunset, up the beach; and on these occasions he was always strangely eloquent. He seemed to give himself up to the hour and to his company, talking as if I and Nature were parts of himself. This was a silent recognition, I said to   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     73 myself, that I was worthy to share his higher thoughts. And then I chided myself for saying so. On another occasion, we sat watching the moon- light on the sea, till, in listening to his talk, I forgot the time, and was surprised and a little abashed, when Georgiana came in search of me at a late hour. "Dear me," she said, with an affectation of sur- prise, "you here, Maggy. I hadn't the least notion of it, and ran down, tired out with the silly fops in the drawing-room, to look at the ocean." But I knew better; I knew she had come to watch me. Meantime a fortnight passed. There were daily rides, or sailingsexcursions, or parties to go crabbing; mornings spent in the bowling alleys, evenings de- voted to dances or charades. In one respect, our acquaintance with Mr. Talbot had been of advan- tage to me: it procured me a share in these plea- sures. Before his arrival, everybody considered me a governess, and as my uncle never asked me to par ticipate in the sports constantly going on, nobody-else thought it worth while. But now the fact that Mr. Talbot often invited me, and the knowledge that I was not a hired dependent, procured me, almost al- ways, a share in such amusements. I frequently heard, "Is not Miss Gray going?" or "' We can't do without Miss Gray," or "'Miss Gray must come on our side, or the game won't be fair. I was quite a-   74     THE OLD STONE MANSION. different person from the plain, neglected automaton of the month before. One day there was a crabbing party at Point Breeze, a shady promontory on the Chincoree River, within a convenient drive of the hotel. It was a sultry morning, for a land breeze was blowing, and we had all repaired there, because, at such times it was hottest at the beach, but was comparatively cool at the Point, there being a long stretch of river and bay to the westward, which impregnated the wind with something of its own refreshing temperature. Georgiana, too fine a lady to join in our sport was sitting under an awning, fanning herself lan- guidly, when Mr. Talbot looked up from his line. "What do you say to a sail, Miss Elliott?"' he said. "You seem dreadfully bored. Come, I will be your cavalier; a modern Cavendish, if you will; and we'll go in search of new El Dorados." Georgiana glanced around, with secret triumph in her-eye; but affecting hesitation, said, "If you don't think it will be too hot." "Nonsense," replied Mr. Talbote in a blunt, de- cided way, he often had; and throwing down his line, he continued, "Your parasol will keep off the sun; and it's cooler on the water than here." "Well, if Margaret will come also," said my cousin, rising gracefully, for she never forgot tho proprieties.   THE OLD STONE- MANSION.     75 I was not particularly pleased at a second-hand invitation like this, especially as Mr. Talbot re. marked, quite coolly, "OhI to be sure," as he jumped from the pier to hoist the sail of the boat; but I knew Georgiana would pout, after we got home, if I did not go, so I consented with the best grace I could. There was a light breeze, which wafted us slowly out into the bay. I have always been fond of the wateq, so I soon forgot my momentary vexation. Mr. Talbot had the reputation, not only among the amateurs, but with the fishermen also, of handling a sail-boat skillfully.; and certainly nothing seemed to be easier for him than to direct our little craft, as he sat, rudder in hand, carelessly chatting with Georgiana. Annoyed at the manner of my invita- tion, I held myself aloof, as much as possible, espe- cially as neither of my companions appeared to notice my reserve; so I sat humming a low tune to avoid overhearing the half-whispered conversation back of me, now watching the white, fleecy clouds that hung about the western horizon, and now dip- ping my fingers into the wave, as the boat glided noiselessly along, like a white gull skimming the waters. We had gone about six miles down the bay, -and were approaching the Highlands at, its mouth, when {             - f   76     THE OLD STONE MANSION. I woke from a long reverie to hear- Mr. Talbot say to Georgiana that a thunder-storm was coming up, and that we had better return. Glancing to the west, I saw that the fleecy clouds had disappeared, and that a purple-black bank of vapor, like a distant mount- ain range, had taken their place. My cousin was already uneasy. "There's nothing to be alarmed about, Miss Elliott,' said Mr. Talbot, as he turned the boat homeward. "We have ample time. It will be an adventure to talk of." Our progress was now comparatively slow. In- stead of slipping smoothly along before the wind, we had to describe a ziz-zag course, tacking contin- ually, in order to beat back to the pier. But the motion, to me at least, was more exhilarating than it had been before. Now the boat rushed along, leaning far over to the left, the water shooting past her like fences past a railroad train. Now she seemed to stop in mid-career, obedient to the guid- ance of Mr. Talbot, and fluttering her sails for an instant, poised like a bird about to wheel, and then darted off at a sharp angle to her former course, dashing into the head-waves with a thud that sent the spray often back to our faces. The blood danced riotously in my veins. I realized what Byron felt when he spoke of the sea bounding beneath him   THE, OLD STONE MANSION.      " like a steed that knew its rider. I was in no hurry to be ashore. Not so Georgiana.  The constant stooping to avoid the boom, as the sail was shifted, and the changing her seat each time to get on the higher side of the boat, for she was afraid to remain on the lower, made her, at last, exclaim, "Why don't you go back like you came, Mr. Talbot? It's much more comfortable, I'm sure. You lose a great deal, too, by crossing from side to side of the bay, in this way." "Ahl I see you're no seaman," replied Mr. Tal- bot, with a smile. "Going down, we had the wind after us, and could carry what sailors call 'a free sheet.' But now what little breeze there is, is nearly dead ahead, and our only chance is to work back, as I am doing. It's very slow," he added, dubiously, glancinig at the threatening clouds to the west, now rapidly rising to the zenith. "You don't think we'll be caught out in the rain?" said Georgiana, in alarm. "You're not much afraid of a wetting, are you?" he answered, gayly. "We shall be 'drowned, I know we shall," almost shrieked my cousin, looking from Mr. Talbot to the approaching storm, and she rose quickly. "Sit down, I beg oftyou," said Mr. Talbot, half A.[                       ,0   78     THE OLD STONE MANSION. authoritatively. "You might upset this light craft." And he added, in a soothing tone, "Indeed, there isn't a particle of danger. Is there, Miss Gray?" This was the first time, since we embarked, that he had spoken directly to me. The alarm of my cousin had made me, for a second, a little nervous; but this now all passed away; for I saw Mr. Talbot felt perfectly secure, and I knew we could trust in him. ' I feel no fear," I answered. "Georgy isn't used to sailing, or she wouldn't mind it either." For some time, nothing more was said. Mr. Tal- bot was busied in working his way along, taking advantage of every puff of air, of every current, and had no leisure to talk. My cousin cowered on her seat, her head buried in her hands, or glanced up fearfully at the clouds, and then at the long stretch of water which still separated us from the pier. I watched the approaching tempest. I wish I could describe the spectacle. Never before had I seen such a deep purple-black in the sky, or such inky water. An ominous twilight was all around. The birds, after skimming low down, had fled frightened to their hiding-places. The wind had finally died out. Above, wild clouds, rolling over and over, sped before the tempest. A forebod- ing hush was on every thing. Suddenly, far to the   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      79 west, I saw the water begin to glisten; the black sky lifted just enough to show a narrow streak of light along the horizon; and a strange, unearthly sound pervaded space, as of Nature sobbing at her approach- ing dissolution. "Miss Gray," said Mr. Talbot, in quick, almost stern tones. "Here." I was at his side in a moment. "The squall," he said, rapidly, "will strike us directly: you can see and hear it coming. Take this tiller. I must get in the mainsail, or we shall capsize." There was a little shriek from Georgiana, but. he took no notice of it. "' When I cry 'luff,' put your helm quickly over to the left. If I say, afterward, ' down, hard down,' jam the tiller down with all your might." He had gone forward while speaking, and now stood at the foot of the mast, already untying the ropes which held the huge sail up. I could, at that moment, have braved any thing. Down came the mainsail, clattering, Mr. Talbot pulling it in, hand over hand. A few quick, decisive knots tied it fast to the boom. The squall was now close to us, whitening the wide bay before it, roaring like the surf at high-tide, in a north-easter. Mr. Talbot did not hesitate an instant, but springing to the bow of the boat, began to let down the jib.   80     THE OLD STONE MANSION The canvas had half descended, and he was stooping to fasten it, when he thundered, rather than shouted, "Luff, luff," and then "Down, hard down, harder." I obeyed him instantly. The boat heeled over till I thought it would upset, described a quick curve in the water, and then danced up into the very teeth of the hurricane; her bow, as it plunged into the waves, throwing the spray almost over the mast- head, and completely drenching me. For a second, and while I thought we were going over, I saw the sail nearly dragged, as I thought, out of Mr. Talbot's hands; but he pulled it down with the strength of a Hercules, and by a rapid, dexterous turn, fastened the rope to the side of the mast: all this time his eyes never leaving me and Georgiana. "Thank God 1" he said, almost under his breath, and unconsciously, I believe. His face, lately so troubled, cleared up magically, and glancing for a moment ahead, he came back to where we sat, saying cheerfully, "Now it may blow great guns, Miss Elliott; it can't harm us: what prodigies we shall be in the eyes of everybody I We have really had an adventure. Keep the tiller a little while longer, Miss Margaret, while I improvise a shelter from the storm for your cousin." It was quite time, for the rain, at first descending in a few huge drops, was now pouring in a torrent,   TEHE OLD STONE MAISION.     81 almost beating me down. Georgiana, in a minute, was housed under the sail; but by that time I was drenched through. Mr. Talbot, though in no better condition, shook his head as he saw it, and taking the tiller from me, whispered, "You're a brave girl, Miss Gray. But go now and get under the sail too, for you're not used to this sort of work. Oh I never mind me," he added, interpreting my glance. "Such an old water-dog as I am is all the better for a drenching occasionally. The squall is past, and I'll soon carry you into port!" CHAPTER VII. HEa T-BURNINGS. FROM that day, there was a perceptible change in Mr. Talbot's manner towar/me. I did not go to the dinner table, but obeyed his parting injunction, to take a hot drink he said he would send up, and to lie down till evening. He came up, at supper, extending both hands, in a frank, unconventional way he had when pleased. "How glad I am to see you. What a color you have. I hope you've taken no cold." 5   82     THE OLD STONE M4NSION. "None at all," I said gayly. "Nor has Georgian'a either." "You relieve me," he replied. "I was almost afraid to ask. Do you know," he added, offering me his arm, "that, for a moment, I thought it was all over. If it hadn't been for your ready apprehen- sion of my orders, and your quick obedience, the boat would have been upset." "And one, or all of us, been drowned," I replied; and I shuddered slightly. "You have never been so near death before?" he asked. "Did you realize it?" "Yes!  I saw from your face how it was!" "And wasn't you afraid?" "There wasn't time." "You had to act, you mean. Nobly said. Do you know, Miss Margaret, that I believe vou'd have made a Joan of Arc?" At this moment, my aunt came up, and began alternately to chide my companion for having taken Georgiana sailing, and to thank him "for saving," as she phrased it, " the dear girl's life." "I'll take the blame," gallantly said Mr. Talbot, "for I  deserve it. But the praise belongs to Miss Margaret, who saved all of our lives." And he withdrew a step, so as to put me into the foreground. My aunt looked at me, at first with amazement,   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     . 83 then with indignation, which she tried, however, to conceal from my companion. "Oh  to be sure. I'd heard of it," and she laughed a little constrained laugh. "We're all obliged to my husband's niece. She's quite masculine- always was ;" and with this home-thrust she left us. Georgiana did not make her appearance till the next day; but Mr. Talbot was the first to welcome her; he even attended her to breakfast, taking my uncle's vacant seat, for Mr. Elliott had gone to town. Still, though in this, and other things, he was as attentive as ever to my cousin, I could see, after a day or two, that she was jealous of me. At first, the possibility of such a thing seemed incredible. But when she grew, daily, more cold toward me; when she treated me often superciliously, even pet- tishy, I could no longer doubt it. My aunt took even less pains to conceal her indignation. All this could not but render me unhappy. Yet, when Mr. Talbot was at my side, I forgot every thing. Not unfrequently, also, the jealousy of my cousin sent a thrill of joy through me, because it confirmed me in what, at other times, I still thought a vain delu- sion-the hope that I was not indifferent to Mr. Talbot. One night there was a subscription ball, given by the gentlemen of our hotel. It had kept the ladies   84     THE OLD STONE MANSION. in a state of excitement for a whole week preceding. Hair-dressers had been sent for from the city; new wardrobes had been ordered; several army and navy officers, with various other guests, distinguished either socially or politically, were expected. More than half the girls were speculating as to the con- quests they would make. I wore my simple robe of muslin, and my hair 2 la Grecque. I will not deny that I thought of Mr. Talbot, and of what I had overheard him say about this costume, on that first evening. Georgiana was to appear in a new and costly dress, which she had sent for from her milliner. I saw, from her eye, that she had determined to stake every thing on that night's success. Never shall I forget the look of contempt that welcomed me, for a moment, as I en- tered her room, preparatory to going down. Mr. Talbot, in spite of the crowd of uniforms, was still the most popular person there. My heart fluttered when I saw him approach where Georgiana and I were sitting. There was a moment of doubt, during which he paid his compliments to both of us; then he asked me to dance the first set with him. I really pitied my cousin, till I saw the angry flush on her face, as I turned to go, and the threatening look of her eyes. But I soon forgot every thing but -my partner.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     85 There was a subdued manner about him, different from what I had observed in him toward other women, which made me feel at once happy and embarrassed. Perhaps he observed my nervousness, for he suddenly became lively - never had I known him more enter- taining; and I soon grew at ease again. I felt the magnetism of his intellect; I was in extravagant spirits. When the dance was over, a group gathered about us, and I heard more than one whisper, "Miss Gray is unusually brilliant to-night ;" indeed my situation became so public, that I drew my companion out to the piazza, under pretense of wanting fresh air. "I shall never," I thought, " become habituated enough to society to endure being stared at." All through that evening, I saw my aunt watching me with an angry scowl. But I was too happy to think of -this, except for the moment., Twice, Mr. Taibot danced with Georgiana; and several other belles were honored with his hand; but I was the only one whom he led out frequently. It came to be so natural to me, at last, to expect his return, after a waltz or quadrille with others, that -uncon- sciously I kept, whenever it was possible, a vacant seat for him beside me. When I went to my room that night, I felt that, if I never was happy again, I had been so, and superlatively, for once in my life.   86     THE OLD STONE MANSION. I did not audibly even whisper it to myself, but the hope was never so strong before that I was beloved. Mr. Talbot's manner, all the evening, had been what a woman would rather have than any amount -of mere intellectual admiration. I woke, the next morning, with a heart as light as a bird. I began to sing at my simple toilet. I knew that Mr. Talbot was to rise at day-break to go fishing, and I did not expect, therefore, to see him at the breakfast-table; but I could not avoid stealing a glance at his usual seat, and blushing, guiltily, when I caught my aunt's eye fixed severely on me. "I wish to see you in my room," said my aunt, coldly, as we rose from the table. I followed her up stairs anxiously, suspecting something of what was coming. She told me to lock the door. "A pretty state of things!" she then exclaimed. "So you think you can wheedle Mr. Talbot into marrying you." I made no reply. But I felt the blood rush to my forehead: then leave me as pale as ashes, but trembling with suppressed indignation. "As if he would ever do more than amuse him- self with one like you," she continued. "Ohl you needn't look in that way. I always told Mr. Elliott you were a treacherous, ungrateful minx."   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      87 "I am not treacherous," I said, "I am not un- grate--" "Stop! I won't have a word. Such unblush- ing effrontery I never saw. You will make your- self the talk of the whole place, if you haven't already done itl If you've a right to disgrace yourself, you've no right to disgrace us. Mr. Talbot sees you are throwing yourself into his arms, and no doubt laughs about it to the other young men. The idea of going off walking, alone, up the beach, with him; of sitting out in the arbor, late at night; of following him with your eyes; of always keep- ing a place for him, by you, on the sofa." At this last allusion, the color rose to my cheeks, for I felt partly guilty. She had paused for breath, but when she saw my embarrassment, she resumed, "Oh! you admit it, do you? You're not so brazen but what you blush for it. And remember, Miss, what I see, others see. I know that your con- duct was remarked on, last night. There, not a word; but go now. I want no explanations, but only more decent behavior. Get him, if you can; I'm sure your uncle and dear Georgiana, as well as I, will rejoice at your good luck; but don't disgrace us by indelicate behavior." I left the room abashed and humiliated. I knew well that it was envy and rage that made my aunt   88     THE OLD STONE MANSION. , speak in this way. But I could not avoid fearing, for all that, that my conduct had been such as to cause remark. I felt guilty of having loved Mr. Talbot. What if I had betrayed myself, as my aunt said? Such a possibility almost maddened me. Beyond all things else, I loathed scheming in a young girl. To me it was inexpressibly unmaidenly. To be ac- cused of it by strangers, to have given even the faintest cause for the accusation-oh t it was too de- grading. I hated, for the time, Mr. Talbot; I hated my aunt for her injustice; I hated Georgiana for having been the cause of it; but I hated most my- self. Bitterly I resolved that neither she, nor others, should ever have it to say again that I courted his society: and in this mood I took a book and walked angrily down to the arbor overlooking the beach.   CHAPTER VIII. h   DTHE DISPUTE. I HAD been reading for a'little while only, when I heard a familiar footstep; and Mr. Talbot ap- proached. Still smarting from what my aunt had said, and determined to afford no cause for such re- marks again, I gave him a curt reception. He seemed astonished: then offended: then ap- peared to think it was absurd to get angry. But having made one or two further efforts to draw: me into conversation, which I answered only in mono- syllables, he was about to go, when Georgiana came up. I had left her reading a sentimental novel in her room, where she declared she would stay till dinner; but I have no doubt that she had seen Mr. Talbot join me, for her window overlooked the sea, and that she had come down purposely to interrupt us. To do her justice she was looking charmingly. She pretended to explain her presence, by saying she had been searching for me all the morning; and (89)   90     THE OLD STONE MANSION. sinking languidly into a seat, she glided into conver- sation with Mr. Talbot. He doubtless mentally con- trasted her affability with my sullenness, for his manner changed immediately, he grew animated, he devoted himself almost entirely to her. She, on her part, played off all her pretty, coquettish arts on him. In my existing temper, I smiled, ironically, at this, behind my book. "Even the most sensible men," I said, scornfully, "are victims to vanity, and so fall a prey to these poor feminine tricks." I was in no mood, therefore, to answer a question which Mr. Talbot suddenly addressed to me. "What do you think of it, Miss Margaret?" he said. "I see you have been reading, and not listen- ing; and I don't wonder," he continued, glancing at my book, " for 'Undine' is a story to entrance one. But pray, forget Hildebrand and his water-nymph, for awhile; and be umpire between Miss Elliott and myself." "I haven't the first qualification for the task, sir," I answered, coldly. But he was not to be rebuffed. "At any rate," he said, "hear the point. Your cousin maintains that women are not justly treated, by the laws; that, in fact, they are little better than slaves to the stronger sex." Now this was the subject, on which, above all   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      91 others, and like so many of my sex, I felt most strong- ly: the one in which my pride and sensitiveness con- trolled me, perhaps, more than my intellect. I had so often contemplated the possibility of having to leave my uncle's house and earn a livelihood for myself, that I was morbidly awake to the inadequate wages which women received, to the few avenues of employment open to them, and to the loss of -social caste which laboring for their bread often brought upon them. I was already angry; and this question, thus put by Mr. Talbot, made me angrier, because it implied that he palliated, if he did not defend, the course of the world at large toward my sex. "Slaves! So they are," I replied, bluntly. "The chain may be gilded, but it is still a chain." Georgiana's big eyes opened to their full width, for my tone shocked her conventional notions of fine ladyism. Mr. Talbot smiled, and that smile provoked me to go on, more passionately, if possi- ble, than before. "What equality has woman before the law?"I said. "You do not allow her to vote, yet you make her pay taxes. You tell, her it is indelicate for her to preach, yet say she has a soul to be saved. You give her property, when she marries, to her hus- band; but don't give her his, but only a third of it, and- that not till he dies. And if a woman is poor,   92     THE OLD STONE MANSION. and has to earn her her living, you put her at once out of the pale of good society, and degrade her to a lower class." "' You are vehement," said Mr. Talbot, gravely, as I paused exhausted of breath. "Permit me to ask: have you considered all these things as fully as your very decided language warrants?" The tone of superiority, in which this was spoken, provoked me still more. "Decided language  Vehement!"I cried. "On such a subject one cannot be too vehement." Mr. Talbot was silent. I continued heatedly: "Take the case I last spoke of. Is the world just to a woman who has to earn her livelihood?" Still he did not reply. He was writing on the sand with the end of his light bamboo cane. I can- not describe how this simple act irritated me. I began again, "Nor is this all. Society, that shuts the door of nearly every employment against woman, pays her inadequately even for what it allows her to do. No female earns as much as a man; she is not permitted to do it. In my city, women wait in stores, very generally; but even there they receive only half as much as young men. In your city, they are shut out even from this avenue. So it is everywhere. Yet a woman has blood and bones, must eat and dress, must have fire and light."   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      93 "A man is paid as the head of a family; a woman as a solitary individual; and the majority of men are heads of families, as the majority of women are not," said Mr. Talbot, looking up. "Are women never heads of families? Are there no widows, with orphan children? It is the old story of the lion. Men make the laws, and make them to suit themselves. Oh! if woman could, for but one day, have control of the halls of legisla- tion!" "You would make laws, then, for exceptional cases?" "I would be just to woman, by throwing open to her the same avenues as to man." "Honestly now, Miss Gray," he said, and he looked me full in the eyes, "do you think the world would be the better, if women followed trades, did mer- chandising, wrangled at the bar, cheated at the Stock- exchange?  Isn't there something in a  truly feminine character higher and, diviner than can co- exist with these things?"I thought bitterly of what he had often said of Georgiana. "Suppose, for argu.. ment's sake, that the avenues to all pursuits were thrown -freely open to women-that, for every pur- pose of money-making, the two sexes were put on an equality-do you, on your honor, believe that society would be improved by it?"   "'    THE OLD STONE MANSION. I made no reply. Secretly, I felt that he was right. He waited for a while courteously: then pro- ceeded, "If my mother had been hard, scheming, lucre- loving, what a wretch I would be now I And she would have been all this, I fear, Miss Gray, if she had been engaged, her life through, as men are, fighting, first for bread, and then for fortune. Under God," he continued, solemnly, his voice trembling with emotion, " it is because women are preserved, as I would say-excluded, as you phrase it-from the rougher contact of life, that we men begin, at least, with some high and holy feelings; and if we lose them afterward, or if they often grow cold within us, it is because we are thrown, like gladi- ators, into the arena, and forced often to fight for our very lives. By her organization, indeed, woman is more delicate, more refined, more ideal, more reli- gious than man is; but even her organization can- not entirely resist the cold teachings of a selfish world; for few women, I say it with regret, who X play the part of men, whether they play it from choice or necessity, but become more or less mannish; and to the extent they become mannish, to that ex- tent they cease to be really lovable. Besides, by that very organization, woman is less fitted than man for the rough wear and tear of life. Her sphere is home: his the world."   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      95 Much of this moved me. Much of it I felt to be true. But it irritated me all the more. I believed he was indirectly telling me I was too masculine. I answered, "Is what you call womanly really so? Haven't all men a false ideal? Wouldn't they rather have a toy than a companion?" "No," he replied, with sudden energy, "a thou- sand times nol In proportion as a man is strong himself, he wishes, longs for, will have, a companion, and not a toy." "The ivy and the oak," I answered scornfully. "You don't argue, you sneer," he said. "I do argue.  I have given you examples enough." "And your examples were all exceptions." "Oh! that's always the answer," I said. "It is eternally the same equivocation about exceptions to general rules." "But society, as you surely know, has to make general laws," he said, "and under general laws it is impossible always to prevent injustice to the few." "We cannot talk on this subject," I said. "We differ too irreconcilably." And I moved to go. "Nay! stay," said he. "'Hear me out. Is it man, or woman, who is to blame for this-social ostra- cism, of which you spoke, awhile ago? Are not   96     THE OLD STONE MANSION. your sex the first to drop the acquaintance of a woman reduced to work for a livelihood?" I acknowledged, mentally, that he was right; but remained silent. Georgiana now interposed. "You have converted me, at least, Mr. Talbot," she said, with a wonderfully natural air of frankness and innocence. "I confess I had never thought much on this subject, but had taken up the popular cry of my sex." "I wish you joy of your convert then, Mr. Tal- bot," I said, courtesying scornfully. "But it is, at least, thoroughly feminine on the part of Georgy; and that is why man holds us in the slavery he does." With which parting words, and a glance, like a Parthian arrow, shot at my cousin, I swept proudly away. But I had not reached the house before I was heartily ashamed of myself. I had given way to tem- per. I had shown jealousy of Georgiana. I had exag- gerated my opinions. i"Vehement, was the word he used," I said: and I felt its justice. I was self-con- demned. I crept up to my room, double-locked the door, threw myself on the bed, and gave way to tears of mingled shame and remorse. That night there was another "hop." I had looked forward to it, only that morning, with unal- loyed delight. But now I could not hope that Mr. Talbot would be with me. He would never be to   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     97 me again what he had been. He could not forget my loss of temper. My fears were realized. I instinctively avoided him, even turned my back, and looked away, to save my pride. So, except a stately, but studiously polite bow, when he first caught my eye, he gave no sign of his being aware of my presence. He was the life of the party, meantime; affable to all; but to Georgiana he was absolutely devoted. Once or twice, in waltzing, he and she nearly ran against me; but except a hasty, indifferent, t Pardon me," there was nothing said. I did not want for partners; but I was abstracted in spite of myself, and was glad to escape early to my room. How miserable I was I But I no longer thought, with regret, of my vehement manner. A sense of injustice and cruel neglect possessed me. "Let him scorn me," I said, bitterly. "What do I care? I told him nothing but the truth. We women are unjustly treated. If I had deferred hum- bly to his opinion I might--" I stopped, with a haughty gesture. I would not suffer myself to think that I had ever dreamed, so foolish a dream. But I lay awake nevertheless for hours; and I had never been so unhappy, nol not even when a child. -- 6   CHAPTER IX. IN THE ARBOR. IN this mood I remained for several days. Mr. Talbot had left the evening after the dance, to be absent, as I heard Georgiana say, for nearly a week. One day, I was sitting in my favorite alcove above the sea, when Senator Clare approached. He and I had lately become quite friendly: at least, he often stopped to talk to me. He began now gayly: "Poetizing beside the ocean again, eh  Miss Gray?"For the Senator would insist that I was liter. ary and wrote poetry, in spite of my denials. "It is unwritten poetry, then," I replied. "Perverse as ever," was his rejoinder. "Now if I was only the favored one, who was allowed to peep into that portfolio. At any rate," he continued, ob. serving I was annoyed at his pertinacity, " if you do not write poetry, I am sure you feel it. Your love for the sea is unaffected. Others talk of it twice as much as you do, but one sees they are not in earnest." "Yes I! I love the ocean," I answered, abstractedly. (98)   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      99 "It seems to me like some great, beautiful monster, that fascinates me beyond words." "Mrs. Clare and I were watching you, yesterday, when you were bathing. You entered into the spirit of it as no one else does. Are you not afraid to go out so far alone?" It was the custom  at this watering-place, as at most American ones, for ladies to be attended by a husband, brother, or male acquaintance, when in the breakers. As I had neither husband nor brother, and knew my uncle's selfishness, I always bathed by myself, for I would not permit any other gentleman to assist me. "Ohl no," I  replied. "Why should I fear? I am always careful to keep on safe ground. Besides, I swim."          , "We   were observing you floating. I wish every lady had your courage. When I was younger I would sport, for hours) in the breakers; but I am getting too old now." "I think it is less strength than skill that is re- quired. The surf is sometimes very heavy, but I have never yet lost my  footing. The knack comes by nature, perhaps." "You bathe, certainly, as if you were born to it. I  can recognize you among a hundred. Mr. Talbot was saying the same, only the other morning, when   100     THE OLD STONE MANSION. he and I stood looking at you. It was the very day he left. The waves came racing in, like greyhounds coursing. You stood, your shoulders slightly in- clined to the rollers, your hat disappearing and re- appearing, as they rushed over you; 'That famous hat,' he cried, ' it is like the plume of Henry of Na- varre, always in front of the battle.' It was wonder- ful how you kept your ground. I said as much, but he told me of a certain sailing party," and the Sena- tor looked archly at me, "and answered that your courage was never temerity, though you had the mettle of a thorough-bred. The metaphor is mine, not his, and I beg your pardon. We old lovers of the turf are often jockeys even in our talk." It was not, however, at the comparison that I colored. My emotion arose from any thing but anger. I remembered that all this had been said by Mr. Talbot, after I had supposed I had offended him hopelessly. It was happiness that called the crim- son to my cheek. "But I declare," said the Senator, rising, " if here isn't Mr. Talbot himself. Talk of a certain person- age, eh I Miss Gray. He is coming, just in time, for I know you have been dreadfully bored by an old fellow like me." I recognized the footstep, though still distant. But I did not dare to look up. I heard it approach   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      101 and stop beside me." Still I gazed immovably before me. My heart was beating fast. "And Miss Gray, too," said that rich, manly voice, thrilling through and through me, "I hope she also is glad to see me." I raised my eyes, and took his proffered hand, with what composure I could, stammering out some- thing in reply. Every trace of resentment, if there ever had been any, had vanished from those frank eyes. For a few minutes, during which Senator Clare lingered, the conversation was desultory, even gay. If I had wished to be reserved to Mr. Talbot, I could not, in the presence of the Senator, for one so shrewd would have noticed it and read my secret; but I did not wish to be. I felt I had been miser- able without cause, and was only too happy to for- get the past, if Mr. Talbot had forgotten it. When Senator Clare left, Mr. Talbot took a seat beside me, and looking archly at me, said: "'You were angry at me, when I saw you, last. Have you quite forgiven me?" My embarrassment returned as great as ever. His raillery was just. But what could I say?  I stooped down, plucked a bit of clover, and began pulling it to pieces. At last, finding that he perse- vered in waiting for an answer, I replied evasively,   102    THE OLD STONE MANSION. "And were not you angry, too? The least bit offended? I am sure you scarcely spoke to me on the night of the hop." "You did not give me a chance." "It is the place of the gentleman to speak first." "But what if the lady never permits him to catch her eye?" I What if the gentleman never seeks to catch it?" "That was not my case." I raised my eyes suddenly to his face. Their frank look could not be mistaken. His anger had existed only in my imagination. I colored con- sciously. "You were angry at me before that, in the morn- ing," he resumed; and he took my hand, which had been resting in my lap, into his own broad palm, and pressed it. No man had ever done this before, no other would have been permitted to do it; but somehow he acted as if he had a right to that hand, and I could not'gainsay it. "I want you to be just, and tell me why you were angry? What had I done?" His tone, not less than his words, assured me that I was loved. I was dizzy with happiness. For a moment, the grass at my feet, the breakers below, the ships in the offing, and the blue sky overhead, seemed to spin around me.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     103 "I am sure there must have been' some reason for it. You are too sensible to take offense, because I differed from you. And I doubt," he- added, look- ing at me archly, "if you believed all you said. At any rate, you treated me cruelly. Be frank, as you generally are, and admit it." He had still retained my hand. He pressed it gently as he spoke. I felt, that if I did not get away, he would discover my secret. I half rose, saying, "There is some one coming, isn't there?" "There is no one coming," he replied. As he said this, in a decisive voice, he held me fast, and drew me firmly, but gently, down again to the seat beside him. All women are cowards, I believe, at moments like these. I knew what was coming. I would have given worlds, at that crisis, to escape. Trem- bling and breathless, I looked around, in hopes to be able to contradict him. But not a soul was in sight. Every thing about the shore, and even the hotel, was quiet and de- serted, it being the hour when the boarders were dozing after the bath preparatory to dressing for dinner. Not a solitary boy was seen hunting shells on the beach. No children were at play on the lawn. Even that corner of the cool piazza near the   104    THE OLD STONE MANSION. reading-room, where all day long groups of gentle- men were smoking, or chatting over their news- papers, was empty. The flag, which was hoisted every morning from the lofty cupola, hung motion- less. The atmosphere quivered, far and near, in the sultry haze. The ships, out at sea, seemed like ves- sels painted upon glass. Even the fish-hawks, which were nearly always, at this hour, sailing above the waves on the look out for prey, had retired, from the noonday heats, to their nests in the storm-beaten cedars up the coast. Nothing, in all Nature, seemed to have life, except the surf that rolled in lazily be- low us: not a sound was heard except the water softly lapping the shore. In the deep silence I could distinguish every throb of my heart, and so, I felt, could my companion also. There are some things too sacred to repeat. The words Mr. Talbot now spoke were of this kind. But if I desired to, I could not tell what he said. A phrase, here and there, I remember, and will trea- sure up to my dying day; but I was so agitated that I was sensible only of the drift of his eager, passion. ate appeal. He told me that he had loved me, almost from the first hour he met me; that this love had deepened and strengthened, as he knew me better; and that now, if I could give him no hope, life would be comnarativelv a failure for him. He had   THE OLD- STONE MANSION.    105 often thought, he said, that he never should love any one; but I had taught him differently. All he had, all he was, was mine. Surely we had been in- tended for each other, else why this mysterious attraction toward me? Did r think him too pre- sumptuous? His great love must be his excuse. What answer could I make to this? I loved him, and I felt that I could never so love another. To have put him off, on the plea of female modesty, as too many of my sex might have done, would have been the cruelest coquetry. I raised my eyes to his. I offered him my other hand in silence. "God deal with me as I deal with you," he said, solemnly, pressing both my hands to his heart. It was thus our troth was plighted. OH'APTER X. GEORGIANA. THE engagement made a great talk. I shrank from giving. it publicity, but I had to tell my aunt, and of course Georgiana heard it. My aunt would   106    THE OLD STONE MANSION. have kept the secret, as her daughter's name had been connected with that of Mr. Talbot, and she wished to avoid the mortification of acknowledging that he had preferred another. But Georgiana either did not look so far, or cared less, for she her- self proclaimed it everywhere, thinking it would annoy me. The result was that I had to run the gauntlet of half-suppressed whispers wherever I ap. peared. Some impertinent young ladies even went so far as to address me on the subject. They told me that all the rest envied me; and as the mothers, who had marriageable daughters, generally passed me with a haughty nod, or turned coldly away, I sup- pose I was told the truth. I overheard one of these match-seeking matrons express what, I suppose, was the sentiment of others: "Humph I a penniless poor relation, and to get so great a catch: but all the men, I do believe, are fools." "Ah! sly puss," said Senator Clare, whose age and intimacy with me, gave him a right to allude to the subject, "you tried to deceive me, did you? But I knew how it would be, for all that. I told Mrs. Clare, long ago, that if two people were ever made for each other, you and Talbot were. No or- dinary woman would have been able to win him. He needed a strong, original character like yours, feminine, but still heroic.- It is not mere compli-   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     107 ment, my dear child," he added, in a serious tone, !"when I say this. God bless you. It is an old man's hearty benediction; but it is sincere." We returned to the city in September, it being arranged that my marriage was to take place in the beginning of the year. I will pass over the events of that autumn briefly. My uncle and aunt, though studiously polite to me, could not forgive me for having, as they thought, supplanted Georgiana. Their secret aversion was such, that I often thought, if I had not been about to become the wife of the rich and celebrated Mr. Talbot, they would have broken with me openly. Mr. Talbot spent more than half of his time in our city. When he was with me, I was happy, but during his absence I had many sad hours; and I counted, with impatience, the days yet to elapse be- fore I should-have a right to be always with him. Of Georgiana I saw -very little. Her evenings were consumed by; a round of parties, and her morn- ings were generally spent abroad. I learned, acci- dentally, from her maid, that she had become an early riser, and often took long walks before break- fast. She seemed to avoid my society; and when we met was reserved. On more than one oeccasion, when I saw her in society, I was struck with her unnatu- rally gay spirits. What little confidence had grown   108    THE OLD STONE MANSION. up between us, since we had become women, had ceased from the day Mr. Talbot had asked my hand. Thus alienated from nearly all the household, I de- voted much of my time to Rosalie. We were together more than ever. Often, I said to myself, my only regret in leaving my uncle's family, would be my separation from her. We had been in town about two months, when Georgiana's birthday came around. It was to be celebrated by a great ball. The preparations for this event threw my cousin and myself frequently together, for there was much to consult about; and the great inequality of her spirits now struck me more than ever. I could not avoid the conclusion that she had some secret cause of unhappiness. Had I not known that she had never loved Mr. Talbot, but only intrigued to get him through sheer vanity, and perhaps a little pique at the unexplained depar- ture of her supposed noble admirer, I might haver imagined it was disappointed affection. More than once I was on the point of soliciting her confidence. But she always repelled even the slightest approaches of this description, coldly and haughtily. If her mother noticed her abstracted air, or unconscious sighs, she would break into a laugh, declare it was all imagination, and say she never felt better or hap- pier in her life.   THE OLD STONE -MANSION.     109 The ball went off brilliantly. Georgiana had never looked more beautiful, or seemed in higher spirits. Her parents, proud of the admiration she created, followed her with their eyes wherever she went. "I declare," said Mr. Talbot, gayly, "your cousin is almost as beautiful as yourself." "Almost!"I retorted, in the same spirit. "It is well there is that saving clause. I don't think I should ever forgive you otherwise." "It is more of a triumph to her parents than even to herself. How your uncle and aunt seem to worship her. What a strange thing parental love iS" I read his thoughts. He was wondering how Georgiana, whom he thought so silly, could have in- spired such attachment. But he solved-the riddle immediately. "In fact, however," he continued, as if speaking to himself, "it is themselves, in such cases, that parents love. Georgiana is showy, full of tact, and fashionably accomplished; they expect her to make a great match; and that hope, as well as the admira- tion she excites, gratifies their vanity." "You modern Rochefaucault," I said, playfully, dropping his arm on which I had been leaning, "Avaunt!"   "O    THE OLD STONE MANSION. "Why not Mephistophles at once?" he answered, laughing. "Well then Mephistophles," I cried. "I have no patience with you. You are always looking out for bad motives." "Not always," he said. "I don't think there's any thing selfish in your love for Rosalie, for exam- ple. But, perhaps we lawyers do look too much at the worse side of humanity. However, be it vanity or not, which makes your uncle and aunt adore Georgy, her death would be a blow none the less terrible." "I believe it would nearly kill them." I have recorded this conversation, because often afterward, it recurred to me as having been almost prophetic. Early the next morning, I went down to the de- serted apartments, in order to see that the servants were prompt at rearranging them.  Every one knows what a sad spectacle a ball-room presents the following day. As I looked around, a feeling of melancholy, almost indescribable, stole over me. To have sat down and cried would have been a relief. I had never felt so, without sufficient cause, before; and I was ashamed of myself for being, as I thought, hysterical. Alasl it was a presentiment of evil.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      1" The breakfast bell rang an hour later than usual, and though every one looked haggard, all obeyed it except Georgiana. After waiting for a quarter of an hour, her father, who was a martinet in punc. tuality, testily ordered her to be summoned. "Poor thing," said her mother, apologetically, "Iet her sleep. We can breakfast for once without her, father. She must be quite worn out." "Not more than we are," answered Mr. Elliott, who was always out of humor if he had to wait for a meal. "Let her get- up, like the rest of us. It was for her pleasure the house has been turned topsy-turvy; and the least she can do is not to keep breakfast standing." When my uncle spoke in this way there was no appeal. A   servant, therefore, was dispatched to Georgiana's door; but the poor creature returned immediately, followed by my cousin's maid, conster- nation on both their faces. My uncle and aunt rose at once, divining some- thing terrible. But neither could form words to speak. It devolved on   me to interrogate the maids. Both  spoke at once.  Georgiana's room was empty, they said, and her bed had not been dis- turbed. Simultaneously we three, uncle, aunt and myself,   "2    THE OLD STONE MANSION. rushed up stairs; my uncle with an oath, my aunt shrieking myself with a dreadful suspicion at my heart. The servants followed after. I looked back at Georgiana's maid, and read in her face, though she strove to appear frightened, that she knew more about the affair than she chose to tell; and my sus- picions and fears began to assume shape. Mr. Elliott was the first to reach the chamber. His eye instantly detected a note, left conspicuously on the dressing-table, which he read rapidly through, threw with an oath at his wife, and then rushed down stairs, exclaiming that Georgiana had dis- graced them forever, and shouting for a carriage and policeman. My aunt took up the letter, but her hand shook so that she could not see, and I was compelled to offer to assist her. Leading her to the bed, I ordered the servants from the room, and then read the note aloud, the poor mother rocking to and fro, and wringing her hands, except when she broke into audible sobbings. My conscience smote me as I read. Georgiana had eloped, the letter said, with one whom she knew her parents were prejudiced against, but who was all nobleness and virtue, as they would yet discover. He had loved her, she wrote, ever since he first saw her at the sea-shore, in the summer; but had not   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     113 dared then to breathe his hopes, because an old ene- my of his, Mr. Talbot, had, he knew, prejudiced her parents against him. Since then, however, he had followed Georgiana home; they had met frequently; and she had finally consented to be his; indeed, she had loved him, she said, from their first meeting. The missive ended with what is, I suppose, the usual conclusion: in such cases, an entreaty for for- giveness. I had no difficulty in solving parts of this riddle. Georgiana had eloped with Mr. Despencer, the ad- venturer who had disappeared so suddenly, the day after Mr. Talbot's arrival. But other parts of it were still enigmatical. I had always intended to tell Georgiana this man's true character; but had forgot- ten to do it; and I had never since even heard his name mentioned in the family. From my aunt I could extract no information. She had never known, she said, that he had visited at the house-how then could it be supposed that she or her husband was prejudiced against him? My poor aunt, on saying this, began to reproach her child, and went into vio- lent hysterics. The problem was not unriddled till later in the day, when my uncle, having returned from an un- successful pursuit of the fugitives, and my aunt having partially recovered, I mentioned my suspi- 7   "4     THE OLD STONE MANSION. cion that Georgiana's maid knew more of the affair than any of us. My uncle had her immediately summoned, and by locking the door, threatening her with a prison, and promising her a large reward, he so worked on her alternate fears and cupidity, that she finally betrayed her mistress. By putting together what she revealed-what I already knew- and what I suspected, I got at the full truth. It seems, that, within a few days after our return, Mr. Despencer had waylaid the maid, and by a libe- ral reward had induced her to send him word the next time Georgiana went out alone. Thus in- formed, he had met my cousin, as if accidentally, and renewed their acquaintance. Georgiana, morti- fied by the loss of Mr. Talbot, and having always secretly liked Mr. Despencer, consented, after one or two of these apparently chance interviews, to meet him clandestinely. Hence her walks before break- fast. "Miss Elliott," continued the maid, " used to tell me all. How that Mr. Despencer was a lord in dis- guise, but that Mr. Talbot, he knew, had set you, sir, against him, so' that it was of no use for him to visit here openly. How that there was no way but to elope and trust to forgiveness afterward. How that she was as good as any only daughter, and you couldn't help forgiving her. And how he wanted   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     115 Miss to run away long ago, but she wouldn't, hoping something would turn up, and when she gave up this hope, she told him she must wait, anyhow, till after her ball." "So," cried my uncle, choking with rage, "you knew all this, and didn't tell me." The girl began to whimper. I feared, that if the scene was protracted, Mr. Elliott might do what he would afterward regret, so I took the responsibility of unlocking the door, and signing for the maid to depart. He scowled at me, but said nothing; and I also left in order to see my aunt and give her the solution to the mystery. I will not dwell on the week that followed. My uncle raved and stormed, vowing, fifty times a day, that he would kill Georgiana's husband, " if he ever caught the villain," and that he would never forgive her, " if she crawled on her knees, the length of a continent, to ask pardon." My aunt kept her bed, where she moaned and moaned, as if her heart was breaking. I soon found that my presence was irksome to both of them. I had told them, frankly, what I had overheard about Mr. Despencer, and they could not forgive my not having repeated it to Georgiana. My own remorse for this thoughtlessness, meantime, was great. Sometimes I fancied that Georgiana   THE OLD STONE MANSION. would have been saved, if she had known all. Once or twice I saw my uncle scowl at me, in a way that would have led to an explosion, I am sure, if I had not been the affianced bride of Mr. Talbot; but even in his misery, he was true to his character, and stood in awe of superior position. That I was not wrong in my surmise, events soon disclosed. I have forgot to say that Mr. Talbot had left the city, by the midnight train, the evening of the ball, on a business visit to Washington. I wrote to him at once, telling him what a miserable house ours was; asking him if any thing could be done; re- proaching myself; and begging him, as soon as he could, to return. A hurried line reached me, on the fourth day, saying he would be back at the end of a week; and I was anxiously expecting him, when, one morning, a letter came from Georgiana, announ- cing her return from her bridal tour, and asking me to come and see her. The messenger, she said, would wait for me in a carriage, as they were located, for the present, in a country mansion which her husband had hired, a few miles out of town.   CHAPTER   XI. RIGHT OR WRONG? I DID not hesitate a moment. I had long forgot all her unkindness, I remembered only my remorse. "If I can do any thing for her, if I can help to re- concile her to her parents, I will do it, at any cost," I said. I had scarcely uttered this sentiment, and was hurriedly tying on my bonnet before the drawing- room mirror, for I was in such haste to go that I had sent a servant up stairs for my things, when there was a ring at the door that I recognized, and which made my heart leap into my throat. I rushed to the hall, just in time to welcome Mr. Talbot. "I have traveled all night," he said, in answer to my exclamation at his jaded appearance. "But I can't look half as worn as you do. My dear Marga- ret," and he drew me to him, "you take this affair too much to heart." I burst into tears. These were the first words of kindness I had heard for a week. (117)   "8    THE OLD STONE MANSION. "OhI no," I said, shaking my head, "I have caused it all. If I had only told Georgiana. But indeed, indeed, it seemed so trivial, it looked so much like gossip, that I quite forgot it." He kissed me, and soothed me, saying, again and again, that my nervous system was broken down, and that I was consequently morbid, or I would not talk so. "But are you going out?" he said, at last. "I re- member seeing a carriage at the door. Perhaps it is something important. If so, we will talk of all this when you get back." "Oh! yes, I had forgot," I answered, rising. "I am going out, and there is no time to lose. Won't you come, too?"I cried, eagerly. "I am going to see Georgiana." "Going to see Georgiana!" The look and tone that accompanied these words, threw a sudden chill over my enthusiasm. I had supposed that there could be no doubt of- the pro- priety, nay, of the positive duty of my going; but somehow I felt now as if this was not so certain. It was evident, at least, that Mr. Talbot disapproved of the proceeding. "Georgiana has written to me," I said, recovering myself, after a moment, "begging me to come, in order to advise her what to do." I hesitated; then added, "And I feel that I ought to go."   THE OLD STONE MXANSION.     119 My heart beat fast as I spoke, for there had never been, since our engagement, the slightest approach to any difference of opinion between us. Yet I knew, that, if Mr. Talbot had a fault, it was in being inflex- ible to obstinacy in regard to what he thought the right, and especially in regard to the conduct of women. On some points also I suspected that he was the victim of what, in any other, I should have called prejudice. I felt, instinctively, that this was one of those points. Mr. Talbot was silent for a moment. He bit his lip, looking on the ground, evidently both annoyed and hurt. At last he spoke. "You really must give up this visit, Margaret," he said, "I cannot consent to let you go." Had he spoken differently, had his tone been less authoritative, I might have yielded. But alas I for both of us, he roused all the woman in me by these words. The blood mounted to my forehead. Consent I Was he, then, my master? No I I was, not mar- ried yet; and I could and would, do as I pleased. Besides, ought not husband and wife to be alike as to rights? Was not each entitled to his or her conscientious opinion? Was not any attempt, on the part of the man, to claim authority to control the woman, tyrannical?   120    THE OLD STONE MANSION. It is true I loved Mr. Talbot. But was I, like so many other women, those recreants to their sex, as I had been accustomed to call them, to abandon my principles at the first temptation? Was I also to  become a slave, because I loved? My eye kindled, as these thoughts passed through me. Mr. Talbot read my sentiments. But he was as resolute, as unflinching as myself. "Margaret," he said, at last, solemnly, "think well what you are about to do. It is no mere whim that makes me object to your seeing Georgiana. If you could visit her without involving me, I would stop with an expostulation- "  "But now you command--" I spoke in some heat. God forgive me 1 But I was irritable from that week's anxiety, and his tone, whether he meant it or not, was even more exaspe- rating than his words. He looked at me in surprise. Then his brow be- gan to contract. "I will be frank with you, Margaret," he said. "We are to be married so soon, that I think I have a right, equitably at least, to exercise some control over you even now. As my wife I cannot consent to your associating with your cousin. Her husband is a mere adventurer. Once, as you know, I had almost sent him to the penitentiary. You cannot visit his   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     121 wife, without, as my wife, countenancing him; and to that extent embarrassing me. He will boast of an acquaintance, nay, connection, and so secure' en- trance into circles whence otherwise he would be ex- cluded. He is full of tact. If you notice them at all, he will obtain character and credit in conse- quence of it. This I cannot consent to. I must insist, therefore, that you do not go, unless," he paused, "unless you promise, at the same time, never to repeat the visit."            - I believe I would have yielded to this compro- mise, if it had not been for that one word "' insist ;" for I felt the force of his argument. ' For a moment, indeed, I was on the point of giving way. But a something within me whispered that I was weak; that I was surrendering to love and not to convic- tion; and this made me as firm as a rock. "Mr. Talbot," I said, coldly, "I believe I am a reasoning creature as well as yourself. And I have a duty to perform to others as well as to you. Through my neglect, Georgiana has become the wife of this man; I owe her some reparation; and as long as she wishes me to stand by her, I will not be so cowardly as to cast her off." We looked at each other. Neither flinched. "So be it," replied Mr. Talbot, beginning to  button up his coat. He was greatly agitated.   122    THE OLD STONE MANSION. "So be it." He took a step or two, as if depart- ing. But suddenly he turned, walked up to me, and seized my hand. "Margaret," he cried, in a voice husky with emo- tion. "For God's sake think what you do! Be just to yourself as well as to me. Let us not be separated on so trivial a matter. If you love me, you will make this sacrifice." His first words had'melted me. His last made me as rigid as as ever. "If I do not love you," I said, " because I will not yield, neither do you love me, for neither will you yield. But since you say I don't love, the sooner this bauble," and I took my engagement ring from my finger, "is returned to you, the better." He did not, at first, take the ring. He was more forbearing than myself. He looked at me steadily. If there had been any relenting on his part, I might have relented also. But I saw that he was waiting, not because there was any chance of his opinion changing, but because he hoped mine would, and that I would yield. He evidently thought, that, in the relations that existed between us, it was as much my duty to obey as if I had been his wife; and he as evidently held to the belief that the husband was   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      123 the head of the household. Something of this found expression. "I was too hasty," he said, still hesitating. "I am satisfied you love me, Margaret. Forgive me!" I was relenting fast. But his nextwords destroyed all. "Yet more than love is necessary. Where there is an irreconcilable difference of opinion, as there seems to be on this point, either the man or the woman must yield; and it is the wife's duty, in such cases, to surrender to the husband, else there would be no unity of action. A house divided against itself cannot stand. Society holds the hus- band responsible for the wife's behavior; he ought, therefore, to control it; and I shall expect you, in matters of this kind, to give up to me." I believe no man yet ever understood a woman. These words exasperated me to such a degree, that, for the time, all love for the speaker went out from me. They seemed so logically correct, however, in Mr. Talbot's eyes, that he was apparently surprised at their effect. Ahl why did he not know, that, after marriage, a wife insensibly yields all? Why did he thrust before me, so obtrusively, the chain I was to wear? "Sir," I said, removing my hand and, drawing myself up with dignity, "' I see, now, it is you who does not love. You are not my conscience-keeper.   124:    THE OLD STONE MANSION. Thank God I that I find out, before it is too late, what degradation is expected of me." This time he took the ring, which I again extended to him. One long, sad look he cast on me-a look, oh! how reproachful, and then, without a word, bowed and retired. A moment after, I heard the front door close, and knew that all was over between us. Yes I all was over. But alas! I had not that as- sured consciousness, which I ought to have had, that I was wholly in the right, and he wholly in the wrong. The instant he passed from my sight doubt made me its prey. Had I not been too hasty? Had I not again lost my temper? - Was he not right, after all? I rushed to the window to summon him back. But pride checked me just as my hand was on the casement. No! the deed was done: I would abide by it. Then I went over the old arguments to prove that I was right. I said to myself that he was im- perious; that I never could have been happy with him; that, if I had yielded in this matter, he would have expected me to yield always, even when he was indisputably in the wrong. I thought also of my sex. If all would do as I had done, the tyranny of man would soon be over. I congratulated myself on being a martyr. I felt a   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      125 heroic exaltation which buoyed me up, for a while, indescribably. But it would not do. In spite of all, I was miser- ably unhappy. I stood, reasoning thus with myself, but feeling more utterly desolate every moment, till at last my fortitude gave way, I burst into a passion of tears, and throwing myself on the sofa, wept as if my heart would break. CHAPTER XII. THE OLD MANSION. MY passion of tears had not yet spent itself, when there was a tap at the parlor door. I commanded myself sufficiently to ask, in a composed voice, who was there? "It is me," answered my uncle's waiter. "The cabman at the door has rung twice to know if you are going, or whether he shall drive off." I had utterly forgotten my visit to Georgiana. I now rose feebly. "Tell the man I will be there presently," I said. I waited till I heard the waiter pass down the hall,   THE OLD STONE MANSION.  for I did not wish to be seen, and then slipped up stairs, in order to wash my inflamed eyes, and bathe my aching temples. During the drive to Georgiana's, my thoughts were of my late interview, not of her. In vain I tried to dismiss it; the parting looks and words of Mr. Talbot would come back; and I was on the point, several times, of giving way to tears again. For the more I reflected, the less I was satisfied with myself. I felt I had been too hasty, too passionate, too proud. Oh I I would have given any thing to have had the last few hours to act over again. Yet though I knew that I had but to order the carriage back to town, and dispatch a note to Mr. Talbot, that very pride kept me from doing it. We left the city by one of its northern outlets, and found ourselves driving amid abandoned fields. On the dusty herbage of some of these, sheep were graz- ing; others were dug up for brick-yards; on still others, straggling rows of houses were being put up. Suddenly we turned into a shady lane, one side of which was bounded by a spacious park, over whose velvety turf great trees were scattered singly or in clumps, letting the yellow sunshine drop down silently between them, like gold filtered from the sky. A noble mansion, half concealed by foliage, stood at the further extremity of the park.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.1   'It is here, I suppose, that Georgiana lives," I said to myself. "What a poetical homel  It is quite the place to take a bride to." And I thought better of her husband already. But the driver, instead of turning in at the mas- sive gates, kept on, and when I pulled the check, string, and asked him if he had not made a mistake, he answered in the negative, with a shrug of the shoulders, that destroyed all my romantic illusions. After proceeding a couple of miles further, we entered a lonely cross-road, and descending a hill, alongside of a sombre wood, found ourselves in a narrow, gloomy valley, through which ran a small, sullen stream, which, where we crossed it, on a rickety bridge, ran black as death below. A little to the right, in the midst of a grove of ancient white pines, stood an bld stone house, which had evidently been the country-seat of some rich citizen, fifty years before, but which had long been in decay. The roof was covered with moss, and damp with the drippings of the overhanging pines, and in more than one place the shingles had rotted off. The shutters were gone from most of the upper windows. One side of the house, indeed, appeared to be unten- antable. Weeds grew rank and high before the door, and across what had once been a graveled walk. An octagonal pavilion, on a mound, had    128    THE OLD STONE MANSION. been turned into a hay-rick, and the conical roof of an old-fashioned ice-house had tumbled in, revealing a yawning pit, full of broken timbers and stones. Most of the palings were down, that had shut in the little lawn, once, doubtless, as trim as flowers and grass could make it, but now retaining no vestige of its aristocratic days, except a gigantic box-tree, that had been formerly clipped, but had since nearly grown out of shape, and was half dead. My heart sank as I saw the driver turn into this ruinous place. It looked as if it had been the scene of a murder, years and years ago, and had been left to rats, and owls, and ghosts ever since. When the man got down to open the rickety gate, my blood ran cold, nor had I recovered myself, when- the coach, rumbling and jostling over the stony lane, which the rain had washed into huge gullies, stopped before the dilapidated door. Georgiana. was waiting to receive me. I thought she looked disappointed when she saw I came alone. There was, at first, therefore, some constraint be- tween us. She led the way, however, in shaking it off. "I'm so glad you've come," she said, kissing me, and conducting me into the house. ("I knew I could depend on you, at least: and so I told Arthur. Poor Arthur! he is so worried, because, as he says, if it   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      129 hadn't been for him, I'd never have come-to this old, ruinous place; and he's no better one, till his diffi- culties are over, to take me to. It's not so bad, though, as it looks from the outside," she continued, opening a door on the left, and showing me into what had been a handsome room, and was still a comfortable one, for it was comparatively well fur- nished with modern furniture, and had a cheerful fire that made the atmosphere feel very different from the chill, damp one of the hall. "We have this for a parlor, and a couple of nice rooms up stairs, one of which shall be yours, when you come to stay over night, which I hope you'll do often, at least tillyou're married. Arthur," she added, with a sigh, " has to be away, he says, a great deal." The sigh'and the tone told how lonely she was, at such times; but she did not say so. She was, in this respect, improved already. By this time; she had taken my bonnet off, when I heard the rumbling of the coach, as if it was going away; and I started up from the chair into which I-  she had pressed me. "Oh!" she said, "it is all right. Arthur employed the man, and told him not to come for you till night: for I was determined to have you for the whole day. Sit down while I stir the fire." All this was so unlike the Georgiana of a few 8   130     THE OLD STONE MANSION. months ago, that I could not help looking at her wonderingly. She had changed, even in the week she had been gone. There was a sad, worn look in her face, painful to see. Anxiety to recover her parents' favor could not account for that ex- pression. "You have no good news to tell me," she said, after a pause, and speaking with an effort. "Is father very angry?" It was characteristic of her that she did not speak of her mother. She had always loved, as well as, feared, her father most. She had been his pet and she knew it. "I am afraid it will be a long time before he for- gives you," was my hesitating answer. She did not reply for some time. But I saw that her lip quivered and that she leaned against the mantle-piece for support. "What did he say?" she asked, at last, with a trembling voice, looking at the fire. I told her, as delicately as I could, all that had happened, softening her father's harsh expressions wherever it was possible to do so without infringing on the substantial truth of my story. Once or twice she interrupted me to ask a question. But for most of the time, she stood leaning against the chim- ney-piece, with her face averted, crying to herself.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     131 "But let us hope for the best," I said, when I had finished. "Men of your. father's nature are passion- ate and unrelenting at first, but more apt to forgive, after awhile, than characters which are less demon- strative." "That is true," she answered, reflecting for awhile: and she sighed. "I wouldn't care so much, if it wasn't for Arthur. But pa will come round yet. He can't be -so cruel." And a forced smile shone wanly across her face, as she added, "'This is not very hospitable, however: you've been here an hour, and I've offered you no refreshments; what will you have? A glass of wine and a-bit of cake for lunch. eon? Or shall we have an early dinner? Arthur won't be home till dark, and told me not to wait for him." There was something in her manner, rather than in her words, when she spoke of her husband, that convinced me she was not entirely happy with him. She evidently loved him, but seemed to fear him. Already she was beginning, I said to myself, to drink the fruits of her waywardness and disobedience. Yet I pitied her, with all her errors, the mote that I felt that, but for me, she might have been saved. I did my best to cheer her, though I was far from cheerful myself. She innocently made me wince, more than once, when she referred to my approach- ing marriage. X   THE OLD STONE MANSION. We dined in a back apartment, similar to the one we had been sitting in; and were waited on by an old woman, who seemed to be cook and maid-of-all- work in one. After dinner we returned to the par- lor, when I began to wonder why the carriage did not return, for night was approaching. The autumn wind wailed dismally among the pines, and directly the rain began to dash against the windows. At last, the jolting of wheels was heard. Georgiana, who had been uneasy, on my account, for some time, ran to the window and said it was the cabman. "But there is a cart with him," she added, imme- diately, and in a tone of some surprise. "And stay, surely I know those things; they are your trunks. Ah! I see it all," and she turned and kissed me joy- fully, "you have done this to surprise me. You have sent slyly for your wardrobe, and are going to make me a visit. You don't know how I thank you." I realized, from her unaffected delight, how lonely she had felt. But I was so much astonished, at what she said, that I hurried to the window, believing that there must be some mistake. There was none, how- ever. The cart, by this time, had drawn up to the door, and the carman was throwing my trunks on the decayed door-steps, in the rain and wet. At the same moment, the woman who had waited   THE OLD STONE MANSION.   183   on us at dinner, entered the room with a letter, which she handed to me. "What can it all mean?"I said. 'This is your father's writing. Ah! I understand." These exclamations had followed each other, as I received the, letter, glanced at the direction, opened it, and began to read. I tore up the missive, to pre- vent Georgiana from asking to see it, as soon as I had finished perusing it, and threw the fragments into the fire; or I would transcribe it here. But its purport, and even many of its phrases, I shall never forget. It seems that my aunt had been in the back par- lor, which was separated by folding-doors, as is still the case in many old mansions, from the front one, during my interview with Mr. Talbot. While I was up stairs, as I afterward discovered, my uncle had come in; and she had told him what she had over- heard. He had immediately ascertained the number of the coach in which I had left the house, and, when it returned to its stand, had sent for it. Meantime, my wardrobe had been collected and packed into a cart, ready to be dispatched to me. The cabman, when he came, was given a letter, with instructions to de- liver my baggage on the spot, or 4rive me elsewhere if I wished. The letter itself reproached me, not very consist- 7  THE OLD STONE MANSION. ently, considering for whose cause I had quarreled with Mr. Talbot, with having undermined Georgiana, with having trapped her into her marriage, and with still abetting her in her disobedience. I was, it said, ungrateful, artful, insolent and treacherous. But I was at last found out. My very victim, Mr. Talbot, had discovered my true character, and cast me off; and the writer hastened to follow his example. I should no longer insult him, or my aunt, with my presence. They utterly disowned me, and forever. They had sent me such things as were mine, though I did not deserve it, and they wished never again to hear my name. As to applying to them, by letter, or seeking an interview, it would be useless. My uncle was neither a coherent talker, nor wri- ter, and this letter was one of his most involved pro- ductions. The very handwriting trembled with passion. In every sentence was revealed the hatred and revenge, which only the wealth and position of Mr. Talbot had restrained, and which now had full sway. Pride and indignation were my first emotions. When I had finished perusing the epistle, I looked up. The eyes of Georgiana were fixed on me inquiringly. Calmly I walked to the fire, as I have said, tore the letter up, and threw the pieces deliberately into the flames. Then, as concealment was no longer possi-   THE OLD STONE MANSION.   185   ble, I told my cousin of the breach between Mr. Tal- bot and myself, and that her father had turned me out of doors. She was at my side in a moment. The many slights she had put upon me, in her rich and inso- lent days, were forgiven and forgotten from that hour. She was one of those, whom sorrow im- proves. Had I been a sister, she could not have been kinder. "You shall stay with us,".she said, kissing me. "Arthur will be so glad, for he is compelled to leave me a great deal alone, and I know it gives him pain. You have come to all this, too, because you took my part. Ah I Maggy, it is just like you, always think- ing of others before yourself." I was really grateful for so hearty a welcome. For I felt that I had no other place to go to, at least that night, and that I should have been compelled to ask for a temporary home with her, even if she had not offered it. This much I saw, though I was yet too stunned by the events of the day, to reflect clearly, either on my real position, or on my future plans. It was now Georgiana's turn to try to be cheerful. She led the way gayly to my room, superintended the bringing up of my things, and kept assuring me "Arthur would be so glad that I was to live with   136    THE OLD STONE MANSION. them." But I was not so certain of this. Even my temporary sojourn with them, till I could find some means of employment, I began to think might be distasteful to him; for it was plain his pecuniary re- sources were small; and it was probable he would dislike me on Mr. Talbot's account. The events of the day had left me nervous, so that, as the hour for his return approached, I began to wish almost that I had rejected Georgiana's invitation, and gone else- where. But where could I go? This continually returning question, and the ever repeated answer, that I had nowhere to go, humiliated me beyond words. If Mr. Talbot had wished for revenge, he was having it already. At last Mr. Despenscer arrived. We heard him in the hall below, stamping the water from his boots; and Georgiana hurried down to meet him; while I remained, sitting in the twilight, listening to the rain beating against the casements, and feeling as if I had nothing now to live for, nothing to hope for, hereafter.   CHAPTER XIII. MR. BENTLEY. IN a few minutes, my cousin came running eagerly up, saying, "Arthur is so glad you are here." Mr. Despencer followed her, and taking my hand in both of his, as if we had been old friends, greeted me cordially. I will not deny that I felt relieved. Mr. Despencer had not forgotten his old grace of manner. If his welcome had been that of a Paladin to some wandering and wronged princess, it could not have been accompanied by more delicacy in look and manner. I began to think better of him. I won- dered less at what I had thought Georgiana's infatu- ation. My answer, doubtless, revealed something of this change in opinion, for my cousin brightened up and gave me a glance full of grateful thanks. Mr. Despencer noticed it also, and continued quite gal- ' lantly, "You might find it dull, for young married peo- ple are apt to forget everybody but themselves," and he -looked, half laughingly at Georgiana, who was blushing happily-I had not seen her look so happy (137)   138     THE OLD STONE MANSION. before, "but fortunately I brought a friend home with me. Mr. Bentley is quite a beau. I should not wonder if he and you got up a flirtation." I caught an appealing look from Georgiana to her husband. She had not, I saw, informed Mr. De- spencer of the reason for my visit. But he compre- hended, with ready tact, that he had made a blunder of some kind, and offering me his arm, conducted me down stairs in silence. Oh I how that chance allusion wrung my heart. It brought back, in full force, the memory of my hap- piness, now gone forever, and which, for the last half hour, I had temporarily forgot. Mr. Bentley was handsome and well dressed. But he had a sinister expression, which made me shudder instinctively, as one shudders at sight of a snake. He seemed to me a something between a jockey and a blackleg, dressed up in Sunday clothes, and prac- ticing manners learned of a dancing-master. The elaborate politeness with which he received his in- troduction to me increased my aversion to him, as elaborate politeness always does, when I dislike people; besides, elaborate politeness is never honest. The next day rose clear and crisp. After break- fast, Mr. Despencer and his friend departed for the city. The former was so much out of humor, that he could barely restrain himself sufficiently to be   THE OLD' STONE MANSION.     139 civil. Georgiana looked as if she had been crying. I surmised that she had told him how unrelenting her father was: and my surmise proved correct, as she informed me, after the meal was over, by way of apology for her husband's ill-temper. She did not tell me how harsh he had been to her, however, and that this was the cause of her swollen eyes. Mr. Bentley, however, was still offensively polite. He seemed to think that he could make up for his friend's incivility, by excessive attentions to Georgi- ana and myself, when he only annoyed the first, and exasperated me. For already I was beginning to hate the man. "Has he the impertinence," I said to myself, haughtily, as I contrasted him with Mr. Talbot, "to think he can make himself agreeable to me?" When we were left alone, Georgiana excused her- self for an hour or two, on the plea of household affairs, but really, I suspect, to have out her cry un- observed. Left to myself, I set forth to examine the mansion. I had been curious, from what I saw of it the night before, to know where Mr. Bentley had slept, for, except the two chambers occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Despencer and myself, and the loft, which the servant had for a dormitory, I was not aware of any apartments in Sufficient repair to be used as  sleeping-rooms. I found my anticipations correct. L    "O    THE OLD STONE MANSION. The entire half of the house, on the right of the hall, was in a tenantless condition; the shutters rotted off or hanging loose; the plaster broke; the ceilings fallen in; the floors decayed. I opened the doors, that led into them from the hall, but did not enter, for they looked dangerous, and smelt damp and fetid. None had any furniture in. I was forced to conclude that Mr. Bentley slept in an out-house. In my walks Hmet the old woman who had waited on us the day before. It seemed as if the advent of Mr. Bentley, with his sinister look, had cast a glamour over the place, which affected every thing; for this servant, who had seemed, when I first saw her, only a vulgar-looking cook and maid-of-all-work, now wore a hag-like expression, which made my blood run cold. Toothless, blear-eyed, withered, with long, skinny fingers, and already bent by age, she came upon me so suddenly, as I turned the angle of the house, that I started with a slight, in- voluntary scream, as if I had seen a witch. In the course of my further researches, I detected, at the rear of the hall, a massive door leading to the right, and saw that it conducted to a large apart- ment, the only room, on that side of the house, not plainly a prey to bats and owls. But whether it was in decay or not I failed to discover, for I could not get admittance into it from any point, as it was   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     141 protected outside by wooden shutters, firmly bolted within, and though a door led into it from the front room, which had been used as a dining hall in the palmy days of the mansion, that, also, was now tightly locked. As I was trying the fastenings of this door, the old servant who seemed to be prowl- ing about watching me, came up and told me curtly that the room was nailed up, and had not been used for twenty years. When I had exhausted the mnansion, I went to the out-houses, but still found no place, except a hay- loft, where Mr. Bentley could have slept. The out- houses were as ruinous as the mansion itself, being mostly covered with moss, or overgrown with briars or poisonous vines, while between the cracks in their gaping walls, green, slimy lizards ran in and out. Georgiana still kept her room, when I had finished these explorations, and I knocked in vain for admit- tance. She had a violent sick head-ache, she said, "wouldn't I excuse her till dinner-time?" The dinner would be at five o'clock, " a late dinner to be sure, but Arthur had promised to return by that hour." She thought if she could get a little sleep she would be quite well agai. Poor thing! I read it all. She was exhausted by weeping, and fancied that by secluding herself and courting sleep, she   "2    THE OLD STONE MANSION. could come out at dinner-time, looking freshy, and so deceive me and her husband. My only chance of avoiding thought was to keep myself occupied. So, when I found that Georgiana was not coming down, I resolved to go into the city, and inquire where, or how, I could get work. It had to be done at some time; for I was determined not to be dependent. Why not at once? I hesitated, at first, thinking that Mr. Talbot might possibly relent, and that a note might come from him in my absence. But my pride whispered, that, in such an event, my triumph would be the greater if I was away. "Triumph!"I said to my- self, immediately after, " ah! he will never write: there will be no triumph for me; he is inflexible." And saying this, I went up stairs for my bonnet. I was torn by conflicting emotions: now angry at him for what I called his tyranny and obstinacy; now more than half convinced that it was I who had been exacting. I had talked, often and bravely, of what a true woman could do, in spite of the social injustice that beset her path, if left to provide for herself. I tried, as I walked toward the city, to recall all this and to assure myself that the task before me was an easy one. I had only to will it, I said, and all difficulties would disappear. There was nothing menial in   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      143 working for one's bread: nothing in the mere act of asking for employment, that should call a blush to the face. But when I reached the place where I had determined to make my first application, my heart failed me. It was a picture dealer's, where I hoped to dispose of a few water-color sketches, which I intended to paint. But I walked past the store, two or three times, before I could muster courage to go in. When, at last, I did enter, and nervously told my errand, the rough, curi way in which I was told " there was no demand for such things now," made every vein tingle with alternate shame and indignation. I had to school myself for more than-an hour, before I could venture on a second attempt elsewhere: and here the answer was the same. I do not, in writing this autobiography, seek to extenuate myself. I ought not, I know, to have been either angry or ashamed. My reason told He so, even then. But we are flesh and blood, not mathematical machines. We feel the stings of pride, we resent insult, and this the more readily, the more unhappy and friendless we are. To be poor is no crime, but, in the world's eye at least, it is a stigma. To go about, morning after morning, week after week, soliciting employment, when all avenues are filled, often meeting rudeness and nearly always    "4     THE OLD STONE MANSION.' coldness, is no small cross for a woman to bear. Those who have been accustomed to it, all their lives, feel it to be such. It was worse for me. It was the worse for one proud like I was. I do not wonder that impoverished gentlewomen sometimes starve, rather than run this gauntlet. Oh! how I hated the world for its injustice. For, at that period, I charged all my sufferings to its social code. I hurry over this part of my story. The public has had a surfeit of such sorrows, and is sick of the wrongs of distressed women. And, in fact, terrible as this physical suffering is, it is nothing when com- pared with the mental ones I had to endure. Pov- erty, even starvation, can be borne better than the loss of love, infinitely better than the sense of one's having done wrong. The pain of the body is noth- ing to the agony of the soul. Yes I I could have borne all, if I had had within me an assured con- sciousness of right-doing. But the more I reflected on my behavior, the more doubtful I felt of its cor- rectness. More than once, I saw Mr. Talbot's name men- tioned in the newspapers, as having won some im- portant case, or made some eloquent speech. I felt then how I loved him yet I Loved him, I said to myself, in spite of his injustice. But had he, I   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      145 always added, been unjust? Alas I this doubt was hardest of all to endure. I could have suffered every thing, if certain I was a martyr for the truth; but I grew hourly less sure of this, and more miserable. CHAPTER   XIV. THE CLOSED CHAMBER. THAT night, Mr. Despencer returned home, in a comparatively good-humor; and poor Georgiana's spirits rose accordingly. From this time out, her smiles or tears fluctuated with her husband's temper; and alas I for her, he was oftener angry than other- wise. The mild, thorough-bred manner, which had been his only recommendation to me at the sea- shore, was accompanied by a passionate disposition, which he gave full vent to at his own fireside. My blood often boiled at his treatment of my cousin. Why is it that so many men, famed in society for their courtesy, and even chivalry to women, are little better than brutes to their wives? Mr. Bentley did not visit us again for several days. I was not more pleased with him, at his second ap- 9   "6    THE OLD STONE MANSION. pearance, than at his first. There was a coarse, animal look about the mouth, which made you for- get even his fine eyes; and they zuere fine, of that purplish black which is at once so rare and beauti- ful. He had glittering white teeth, which a perpet- ual smile constantly exhibited, and which, to me at least, were suggestive of a latent snarl, as if he was a human hyena. Yet he was handsome and well- bred, in the ordinary sense of the term. In a pro- miscuous assembly of young ladies, at least half would have pronounced him a " love of a man." "You don't seem to like Mr. Bentley," said Geor. giana, the next day when we were alone. "Yet he is said to be very successful with women." "Who is he?" was my reply. "Mr. Bentley," said Georgiana. "I want to know what he is." "Don't you know?" "No." "Arthur says he is a gentleman, who has been unfortunate." "Do you believe it?" and I looked at her keenly. "I sometimes think he may be a gambler, or some such thing," she answered, a little embarrassed. "He don't act the real gentleman, now does he, Maggy?" "I don't think he does."   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     147 "He hasn't the manner of Arthur. - Few have." "' No. He hasn't Mr. Despencers manner." "I sometimes wish Arthur was not so intimate, with him. I wonder if they ever play?" "I hope not," I said, for I saw how distressed the idea made her; and to divert her thoughts, I added, "By-the-by, where does Mr. Bentley sleep, when he comes here?" Georgiana laughed. I had not heard her laugh so gleefully since she was a child. "I'm sure I don't know. I'm keeping house, and don't know where my guests sleep-isn't it funny? Arthur told me, I remember now, not to trouble myself about it, for that old Jane would settle it all: and I never did trouble myself." And she laughed again. The conversation ceased here, but as we sat at the tea-table, that night, Georgiana suddenly looked up, and said to Mr. Despencer, "Arthur, where does Mr. Bentley sleep, when he comes here?" Her husband had his cup raised to his lips, in the very act of drinking. He paused, and looked keenly at me, as if divining where the question originated. "You don't answer me," said Georgiana. "And why do you stare so at Maggy?"   "8    THE OLD STONE MANSION. "Excuse me. I had not heard you. I wasn't aware I was staring at anybody. What was it you asked?" I knew well enough that he had heard her. But Georgiana, completely deceived, repeated the question. "Ohl in the front garret, to be sure," he an- swered, promptly. "Old Jane has the back one, you know." But I had been in the front garret, the morning after Mr. Bentley's first visit, and there was not an article of furniture in it, nor did- it look as if any- body had slept on the floor. A temporary couch, however, might have been arranged, and removed before I saw the room. Yet I half believed that the whole was an invention of Mr. Despencer's, and that he had paused to get time to think what to say. I was entirely convinced of this, the day after this conversation, for, when I stole up to the garret, drawn thither by noises I had heard after I retired, I found that a bedstead, and a few other articles of chamber furniture, had been arranged there; and as I recognized one or two of the chairs, which I had seen in Georgiana's room, I knew that Mr. Despencer, to blind me, had caused the apartment to be fitted up. But why should he blind me? Why was there   \   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      149 an necessity for a mystery? My thoughts reverted to the closed chamber. But even if that- was where Mr. Bentley slept, why should there be any attempt to conceal it? What was the tie between him and Georgiana's husband?   It was more than mere friendship, I felt assured. Did they' share some dark and terrible secret together, with which, in some way, the closed chamber was connected? Meantime I made every effort to obtain employ- ment, in spite of Georgiana's repeated entreaties for me to remain with her. At last, after three weeks of suspense, I was taken on trial by Madame Modiste, a fashionable milliner and dressmaker. The situation was desirable neither pecuniarily, nor otherwise, for the wages would hardly support me in the meanest way, and the duties were as irksome as they were unpleasant. But necessity left me no choice. I had tried to get into some respectable family as a governess, and failin his to make an engagement as assistant in a schooldut every ave- nue to these employments was closed, for the time, and it was impossible for me to wait. Fortunately I had been accustomed to make my own dresses, from motives of economy, and so had acquired some knowledge of mantua-making, else I would have had to sink into the position of an ordinary sewing- woman.   150    -THE OLD STONE MANSION. Sewing, which is such a sedative to many of my sex, was never such to me; but had always been a tAsk. I thought, in advance, how my eyes would ache, my chest pain me, my spirits sink, even at Madame Modiste's. But I did not repine. On the contrary, I was grateful that it was no worse. I foresaw the many possible indignities, far more gall- ing than any mere physical suffering, which would be incident to my position. I even dreaded being recognized by some of my aunt's fashionable ac- quaintances. It is true I had never gone into society, except till after my return from the sea-shore, and there were comparatively few who knew me. But to render the probability of a recognition still less, I engaged myself to Madame Modiste under a feigned name. In her establishment I was Margaret Berk- ley. This was not entirely a fiction, for Berkley was my middle name, having been the maiden one of my mother. But it was a long time before I could bring myself even to this partial deception, nor would I have yielded at last, but that I feared Madame Modiste might recognize me under my real name, and if she did, decline employing me, from fear of my aunt. The very night of the day on which I had made this engagement, Mr. Despencer, at tea, said that he had to visit a neighboring city, and would be gone till the next Sunday.   THE -OLD STONE MANSION.    151 "I would like to take you, Georgy," he said, "if Miss Gray will keep house while we're away." "Oh I I should be so delighted," said my cousin; for, poor child, any kindness from her husband almost set her wild. Monday was the day on which I was to go to Madame Modiste's, so I saw no objection to the ar- rangement, except in one particular. Mr. Bentley had been so marked in his attentions lately, and was so deficient, I believed, in a nice sense of propriety, that I feared he would take advantage of this absence to annoy me more than ever. But I hesitated to mention this, for I saw how disappointed Georgiana would be. "May we count on your keeping house, then?" said Mr. Despencer. An appealing look from Georgiana decided me, and I answered in the affirmative. I never saw a happier being than my cousin for the rest of that evening. The next day, when Mr. Despencer had departed to the city, I frankly told Georgiana, that she would oblige me, if Mr. Despencer would hint to his friend, to dispense with his visits to the mansion during their absence. "Your husband can do it in a way to avoid offense," I said, in conclusion, " and I don't want to hurt the feelings of any of his friends."   162    THE OLD STONE MANSION. Georgiana promised, but added, "You don't seem to like Mr. Bentley any better, I'm sorry to see." "Do you like him better?" She looked confused. I saw her husband had been talking her over. "Oh I yes. Arthur assures me, on his honor, that they never play; and Mr. Bentley is really very handsome and very polite." I made no answer. Georgiana went on. "I wish, Maggy, you wouldn't be so prejudiced. Arthur says Mr. Bentley is desperately in love with you, and that you really treat him cruelly sometimes." My first impulse was to resent these words. What right had Mr. Despencer to say I treated his visitor cruelly? What right had he to permit me to be annoyed by attentions I disliked? What right had he to talk over Georgiana? But I reflected how foolish it would be to get angry at my cousin, for it was in her nature to be controlled by her husband. Poor thing! she needed pity more than she deserved anger. "We will not talk of this, to-day, my dear. But promise to speak to Mr. Despencer about his friend's visits while you are away." Georgiana saw I had been hurt. She came up and kissed me affectionately.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     153 "Forgive me, Maggy," she said, "Mr. Bentley shan't trouble you." The next day they left. I watched the carriage that bore away Georgiana, till it was out of sight; and then re-entered the house, sadly. For my cou- sin was now the only one left to love me; in all the world I had no other friend,' and her departure made me inexpressibly lonely. The old stone man- sion, with its decaying out-houses, looked drearier and more desolate than ever. CHAPTER   XV., THE LYETONS. THE week passed without incident. But on Sat- urday, when I rose, the sky was overcast. I had felt sadder and sadder, as day by day dragged me nearer to my approaching slavery; and now the low, leaden-colored clouds, that grew darker and more threatening every minfute, the rising wind that moaned and wailed through the pines, and the gusts of rain that began to sweep past, made me strangely nervous. There are times when the aspects of Na.   154    THE OLD STONE MANSION. ture affect us, as if they were a part of ourselves; and this was one of them. Besides, I had always been peculiarly sensitive to outward impressions. A mountain stirred my soul with solemn and grand emotions. A quiet Sabbath in the country soothed me with a peace inexpressible. Often, in childhood, as I heard the midnight rain dashing against the casements, I had drawn the bed-clothes over my face, with a shudder, fancying that skeleton fingers were tapping on the window-panes without, for ad- mittance. As the day wore on, the storm increased, and my depression of spirits with it. I tried to forget my- self with my needle. But this only jaded my nerv- ous system and made me more depressed than ever. I rose and walked the room. The evening was now setting in; the rain rushed down in torrents; the wind had increased to a gale. My footsteps quickened, in sympathy with the tumult without, as I hurried from side to side of the room. My fire had died low. Its dim light left deep shadows in the corners of the room, from which I almost expected to see weird faces and forms emerge. I did not dare to stop walking. Once I tried to do it, but my flesh began to creep, and my knees to tremble, as if an invisible presence only waited my stopping, to clutch me with its spectral hands.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      155 Some of my readers, perhaps, may have felt, at times, like I did. If so, they know the horror of such sensations. To others it would be in vain to describe them.  They became so intolerable at last, that I seized my candle, and sought the company of old Jane, in the kitchen, under the pre. tense of getting a light.. She was sitting crouching over the fire, with crooked, skinny fingers, occasionally rubbing her hands feebly together. She also had- neglected to light her candle, and the luifid glare of the smolder- ing coals, reflected on her brown and withered face, gave her an aspect more witch-like than ever. I told my errand, half apologetically. She did not rise to get the matches, but pointed silently towhere they were. I lit my candle, but still lingered. "My fire is almost out," I said, at last, putting down my candle, and drawing a stool to the hearth, "and it's not worth while to make it up again to- night, so I will sit .here till bed-time." She moved slightly to give me more room, and said something about its being a rainy night. There was-aqlong silence, which I broke, at last, by saying, . "You'll think I'm- going to ask an odd question. But where did Mr. Bentley sleep, the first night I came here?"   156     THE OLD STONE MANSION. She did not pause an instant, nor even look up, but answered, as she held her fingers to the fire, "At the tavern, below here: a quarter of a mile, or so, of.:" The explanation was so natural, that I gave credit to it immediately, wondering I had never thought of this simple explanation before. Yet I asked my- self, at the same time, why Mr. Despencer had at- tempted to deceive me. Old Jane looked up at my silence, and seeing sur- prise in my face, continued, "The master don't want mistress to know it, and that's why you never heard of it. You see, he didn't expect you, the night he brought Mr. Bentley here for the first time, and Mr. Bentley was to have had your room. But when the master saw how it was, he came and told me to tell the mistress, if she asked, that Mr. Bentley -had slept in the garret." "Which was afterward fitted up for him?" "Yes I But," and she looked .at me searchingly, "you seem curious about this matter." "Somehow I had got the idea that Mr. Bentley slept in the room next to the old dining-hall." "I'd like to see the man who'd sleep there." She said this in such a low, horror-struck tone, look- ing around fearfully, that my blood suddenly ran cold.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      157 "Why?"I asked, after a moment, in a voice as hushed. "Have you never heard?" "I have heard nothing." "I knew the mistress had never been told, but I supposed the master might have told you, for you don't seem afeard of any thing. But the mistress, she wouldn't live in the house a day, if she knew it -that she wouldn't." These words, but the manner of the speaker still more, convinced me that some fearful tragedy was associated with this old mansion. I remembered what my instinctive feeling, on first seeing it, had been. With some difficulty I drew from the servant the following recital. "Thirty years ago, long before you were born, -Miss, this house, with acres and acres of land here- abouts, belonged to a family by the name of Lyttle- ton. The master was a widower, a harsh, miserly man, who saw no company, kept but two servants, and never forgave a debt. His sole delight was to add farm after farm to his property. His father had been a spendthrift, and nearly ruined the family; and this was why the son was so greedy after money, it was said. "This miser had also a son, but the boy had been away from home, for ten years or more, first at   158    THE OLD STONE MANSION. school and then at college. He was about nineteen when he came back to live here. His extravagance was an almost daily cause of quarreling between the old man and himself. Yet he wasn't extravagant for one as rich as he was, if what the neighbors said was true. He wanted to keep a horse; but his father wouldn't let him; and many and many a time high words were heard between them about it. So the young man, as he couldn't be happy at home, took to spending his days away, sometimes in the city, sometimes in places about the country. The town wasn't more than a quarter as big then, as it is now, and when you got out here, you'd think it was fifty miles away. There was gunning, them times, in the woods, and fish to be caught in the creeks; and young Mr. Lyttleton was fond of gunning and fishing both. "That happened, which often happens. One day, in the spring of the year, while fishing, he stopped at a little farm-house, a few miles further in the coun- try, to ask for a glass of milk. The farmer's wife was a pleasant spoken woman, and knew-who he was; and she asked him into her company parlor, and sent her daughter for the milk. The daughter, they all say, was the prettiest girl about. She came in blush- ing, and looking down; her lashes were the longest and blackest ever seen. But after she had given him   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      159 the glass, and while he was drinking, she stole a glance at him, which he caught; and this made her blush more than ever. He used to tell, afterward, that such eyes he had never even dreamed of; and he fell in love at first sight. "When a young man, only nineteen, is unhappy at home, and finds a house where he is always wel- come, and where there is a handsome girl he is in love with, he don't stay away from that house many days in the week. So young Mr. Lyttleton kept a going and going, till the neighborhood began to talk about it, and at last it came to the ears of his father. There was a bigger quarrel than ever, you may he sure. The old man had always meant his son to marry rich, and was furious to hear he had promised him- self to a girl, whose father hired the farm he worked. But the son wouldn't give in, no, not an inch I The Lyttletons had always liked to have their own way, father and son, ever since they'd been a family. They were a cruel, desperate set, in the old times, it was said, and had made their money by going a pirating buccaneering it was called, I believe. The first one that came to this country, had been captain of a ship that plundered and burned a town, away down in the Indies somewhere, and brought away thousands and thousands of dollars, besides silver and gold vessels from churches; and for doing this last some   160     THE OLD STONE MANSION. people said there'd been a curse on the family ever since. He had brought away, too, a Spanish girl, a great heiress in her own country, whom he forced to marry him, thinking to get her money. But her father and mother had been killed, some said by him, when the town was taken; and her relations wouldn't part with a penny to a heretic, as they called him; and the king and Pope both took their parts; and so, though he sent agent after agent, for he didn't dare to go himself, he never got a dollar. This is what people say, but I don't know if it's all true, though nobody denies, I believe, that he treated his wife cruelly, and that she died of a broken heart. This brought another curse on the family, so the story goes. "At any rate, they were a bad set enough, gam- blers, horse-jockeys, wicked husbands and unnatural fathers, stern, harsh, passionate men, whom nobody loved, but everybody feared. They always would, as I've said, have their own way. So when the father and son quarreled about this marriage, it was terri- ble. Nobody, for awhile, could be got to live with them, as servants; for each made them the victims of his anger. The oaths which that parlor heard, where you've been sitting all day, were enough, I've been told, to make devils haunt it till the Day of Judgment."   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     161 As she spoke, she glanced fearfully over her shoulder, in the direction of the parlor; and a shiver ran through all my veins. No wonder such an awe and dread had come over me in the gathering twilight in that room. "How it came to be settled at last, in the way it was, nobody, at first, could tell. But they supposed that father and son had worn each other out, and that so they came to patch up a peace between them. It was agreed that the son should go abroad for two years; that the girl should be sent to school and educated; and that, when he was twenty-one, the son should come- back and marry her. One reason, it was thought, why the father gave in, was that this house, and all, the original property, was entailed,-as they call it, so that the son would get it, at his death, whether or no: and this fact made the son more stubborn too, for he laughed when his father said he'd leave him penniless, and boasted he could live, till then, on the Jews. But the real reason, I reckon, why the father made this bargain, was to get the son out of the way, thinking, that, before two years, he'd forget the girl. "He did not forget her, however. The Lyttletons always stuck to whatever they undertook. If they hated you, they never let you up. If they went into politics, or took to horse-racing, they held 10   162    TOE OLD STONE MANSION. on forever. It had been part of the bargain, that the young man, for the whole of these two years, shouldn't write to the girl. Nor did he. But he heard about her, from time to time, from a friend, and was waiting eagerly for the two years to be up, that he might come back and marry her, when this friend suddenly wrote to him that his father had got the start of him and married the girl himself. "It seemed, for all this afterward came out, that the girl had never really cared for the young man. She was one of those vain, empty creatures, who can marry any body, provided they get plenty of finery. Her father and mother thought of nothing but money. They had done all they could to get up a match between her and young Mr. Lyttleton, but when they found he had gone away, they tried as hard to make a match between the father and her, and succeeded. The old man was not too old to be blind to beauty: no Lyttleton, they say, ever was. Besides, he saw the girl actually courting him, and thought what a revenge he might have on his son. So they were married. It was all done so quick, during one of the girl's vacations, that the friend of young Mr. Lyttleton had no time to warn him. "The young man came home by the next packet. He was crazy with rage, they say, in Europe, and for most of the way back. Then he settled down into a gloomy silence, which was even more terrible   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      163 to see. Voyages were longer then than they are now, and for the last half of the voyage he walked the deck, his hands behind him, darkly looking down, and never hearing a word if one spoke to him. The captain, who had heard something of the story, said there was danger in his eye and was going to warn old Mr. Lyttleton, but was prevented, and so the dreadful tragedy came about." This long prelude to the denouement, these pic- tures of the passionate, self-willed, desperate race of Lyttletons, had prepared me for something awful; but when the narrator hinted at parricide, the crime exceeded even my expectations, and I felt my flesh creep with horror, especially as I remembered the room, which. had been closed for twenty years, and which I foresaw  must have been the scene of the bloody deed, and reflected how  near it was. Old Jane seemed to have something of the same feeling, for her voice, which had gradually become raised in the excitement of the story, sank again to a whisper; and more than once she glanced suspiciously around. "He was prevented, because, when the ship got to the wharf, it was almost night and   raining fast. Young Lyttleton did not wait for the vessel to be mral fast, but slipped down the sides by a rope and was off before he was missed. The captain, as soon as he found himself at leisure, looked around for his   164     THE OLD STONE MANSION. passenger, but seeing he was gone, and that the night was stormy, gave himself no more trouble about it, though he would have been too late, even if he had started at once. "For the young man, the moment he set foot on shore, had hired a coach. He got out to the house about nine o'clock. This is about the time of the night, I suppose, and the storm was just such another. The windows rattled; the rain rushed down on the roof; the pine trees tossed and groaned; and the gale went shrieking away over the fields, I've been told, as if the grave-yard, by the old church above here, had been emptied, and the ghosts were howling by. In the middle of this storm, the son, who had left the carriage at the turn of the road below, reached the door and knocked  " She stopped suddenly, for distinct and loud, above the tempest, came three or four knocks on the front door. Her brown cheek changed to livid, and, as the knocks were repeated, one, two, three, four, she clutched at my arm, holding it as if in the grip of a vice, and trembling all over. "Hark 1" she said, in a whisper scarcely audible. The antecedents of her story, the story itself, the breathless crisis at which she had arrived, these had all conspired to make me, at this interruption, start also with a feeling as if supernatural presences were   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     165 about to enter on the scene. But a moment's reflec- tion brought my courage back to me. Though my blood ran chill with a nameless horror, my reason- ing faculties did not desert me. Intellectually, I had always been skeptical as to such visitations. I rose, therefore, resolute to go to the door. "Don't!" gasped old Jane. It was all she could say. But she held me back, with the clutch of a giantess. But the blood of the old Norsemen, which ran so blue in my veins, and to which something of my awe of the invisible world may have beenf attribu- table, was mounting higher and hotter, with every moment, to face down this peril: mounting higher and hotter because the peril. was one which, at first, my nerves shrank from. "No," I said, wrenching myself loose, with a sud- den exertion of strength, of which I had not sup- posed myself capable.  "Man, or fiend, I will see what it is." I snatched the candle as I spoke, and rushed out of the kitchen, not giving myself time to reflect. In a moment I was at the door, had set the candle on a chair, and was unfastening the huge bar which defended the entrance. In another moment, I  had flung the door wide open. What was it, a  sheeted form, or the flash of the   166    THE OLD STONE MANSION. candle into the gloom, the gibbering of a frightened ghost, or the unearthly cry of the wind, that met my-eye, that startled my ears, as the heavy hinges rolled back? Whatever it was, it was gone in an instant. A gust had put out my candle, and I was in the dark, with the rain drifting against my face. Nothing was to be seen, nothing heard without, but the tempest. I will not pretend to analyze my feelings at this juncture. I felt that no mortal being had knocked. Had I alone heard the sounds, I should have thought that my imagination, worked upon by old Jane's story, had played me false. But the servant also had heard them. That two persons should be deceived, in the same manner, was hardly possible. Yet my courage did not give way. I felt cold as ice; my knees and hands trembled; but I stood my ground nevertheless, and carefully shut and barred the door, though it was too dark to see. I next re- covered my candle. Then, but not till then, I turned to go. Up to this point, in spite of all, I had been calm, and comparatively slow in my movements; for I had been facing the danger. But now I could scarcely restrain myself from run- ning. I felt as if spectral arms might be thrown around me at any moment. I breathed hard and quick. And yet I would not increase my speed,   THE OLD STONE MANSION. but walked steadily on, groping my way, for what seemed an age, till I reached the welcome door of the kitchen, opened it, and stood within its warm and cheery light. CFTAPTER XVI. THE MYST'ERY. I STAGGERED to my seat, with a face as white as ashes. Old Jane rose up and stood over me, more moved even than myself. "God help us, she would go," she said, speaking as if to herself, " she has seen a ghost." "No, I have seen no ghost," I replied, recovering myself. "We deceived ourselves, that is all." "Do you mean to say there was nobody at the door?" "There was nobody. You were telling of young Lyttleton's return, and how he knocked; and our imaginations carried us away. The wind put out my candle. Go on with the story." My composure reassured her, and after awhile she resumed her tale, though apparently not without misgivings that we would be again interrupted, for she often glanced fearfully around.  k    168     THE OLD STONE MANSION. "The room, which has been shut up so long, was the library, and here the father was sitting, poring over some title-deeds, when the son knocked at the door. The bride had gone to bed, wearied out with the loneliness of this old house, on a rainy day in winter. A servant let in her young master, but was so frightened at his sudden return, and at his ghastly look, that she dropped her candle, and did not see which way he went. Loud, angry voices in the library soon told, however,. where the son had sought and found his father. What passed between them, at first, no one knows. Their voices were heard in furious strife, every other word an oath, and the servants, terror-struck, gathered in the hall; but no one dared to interfere. Then followed a scuffling, as if a deadly struggle had been joined, and, at this juncture, when the servants were urg- ing each other to enter the room, but no one ven- tured to take the lead, there was a quick gasp and a heavy fall on the floor, followed, the moment after, by the appearance of the bride, who, fright- ened by the tumult, and recognizing her first lover's voice in it, had lost all presence of mind and rushed into the very scene she should have avoided. She passed the servants, huddled together at the foot of the stairs, like a flash of sudden lightning, her night-dress streaming wildly, her hair disheveled,   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     16' her feet unslippered. One of the servants plucked courage and followed her in, foreboding that some- thing awful had taken place, and that worse might happen;n consequence of her presence.    ' "The library door had been'open, during all this time, and the light streaming out across the hall. The servant, who followed her, saw her flit past into this gush of light, and then lost sight of her for a moment. - When she next beheld her, she had reached the middle of the room, where the library table stood, and was standing, as if frozen to stone by horror. What she saw told its own tale. The father and son, in their rage, had -grappled, and the latter, finding the old' man too strong for him, had snatched a Turkish dagger, which lay on the table, and which had been used for a paper-cutter, and plunged it into his enemy's heart. He had just drawn out the blade, and was holding it up to the light, dripping with blood, a wild, maniacal glare of exultation in his eyes, when his step-mother, once his promised wife, entered. Her sudden cry of horror, as she stopped at the end of the table, aroused his attention; he recognized her, uttered a cry like a wild beast, and sprang upon her. It was all over in a second. Before the servant had got three steps into the room, the body of his victim fell heavily to the floor and he was standing over it, laughing savagely, and shaking the dagger on high.   170     THE OLD STONE MANSION. 't The servant turned and fled, shutting the door, behind her, nor was it till aid was had, and the men were all armed, that the library was entered again. For a long time all had been still inside of it When the door was opened, the two murdered bodies were seen lying where they had fallen. On the other side of the table, with the dagger still sticking in his breast, was the lifeless form of the maniacal son." Old Jane, at these words, sank into silence, and for some time looked steadily in the fire. I did the same. To have uttered a syllable, to have glanced around the room, would have been impossible, till the feeling of horror, conjured up by this awful tale, had, in some measure, subsided. At last the narrator resumed, but without removing her eyes from the now fast smoldering coals. After the funeral, the library was locked up. The property went to distant heirs, who sold off the farms one by one, and would have sold the mansion, but nobody would buy it. For, from that hour, people said the house was haunted. On stormy nights in winter, like that when the parricide was committed, noises as of two men engaged in a deadly scuffle, it was whispered about, were heard in the library; lights shone from the tightly shut win- dows; the shriek of a woman was heard; a white   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     171 form was seen flitting about; groans and death- screams filled the air. So everybody avoided the place. None of the servants would stay, except the one who had followed her mistress into the room, and she was left, at last, in charge of the house. Things went fast to decay. I believe it was never let, though that was often tried, till Mr. Despencer hired it, about six months ago." As she concluded, she rose and began to cover up the fire. Then she replaced my candle, which had been nearly consumed; lit another for herself, and led the way up-stairs. I followed her, casting a furtive glance as we entered the hall, in the direc- tion of the library-door; for I half expected to see the portal fly open and sheeted ghosts appear. When I reached my chamber, I laid my hand on her arm, to detain her for a moment. "How did you know all this?"I said. She paused a second, the light of both candles shining on her withered face, and answered, with a look I shall never forget: "Forty years and more I have lived in this house. Young Mr. Lyttleton was my foster-child. I was the friend who sent him word that his father had married his bride. It was I that followed his step-mother into the library. Do you think that any thing else could tempt me to live here? Or that, being all this, I could go away?"   172     TEE OLD STONE MANSIO N. I retired, but not to sleep. My brain was too excited. I lay, listening to the wind and rain, and fancying, at times, that I heard scufflings, death- falls, shrieks, unearthly laughter, every accompani- ment of the tragedy of which I had just been told. The delusion frequently was so strong, that I sat up in bed to listen more intently. But at last nature gave way, and I sank exhausted into sleep. I cannot tell how long I was unconscious. I was awoke suddenly by a loud sound, like the fall of a heavy body, that seemed to come from the direction of the library. I listened, half incredulous. I even pinched myself to be sure that I was not dreaming. But there was no mistaking the fact of the noise, or rather of a succession of noises, such as angry voices, scufflings, with a heavy, dead fall at the last. A chill of horror, similar to that which had come over me at the front door, ran through my veins. I recalled the strange knocking, and said to myself, with a sensation of almost mortal terror, that modern science was wrong, and that disem- bodied spirits were permitted, as our forefathers had believed, to haunt the scenes of their earthly misdeeds. But these feelings did not continue long. My natural courage again rallied to my aid, and I resolved trying, as I had earlier in the even-   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     173. ing, to solve the mystery. Perhaps, I reflected, I might be able to discover a rational solution for the strange event that happened then, as also for the noises I now heard. If not; if beings of another world really were abroad: how could I come to harm, for I was innocent. I would trust in God: I would go forward. -. Thus reassured, I rose and began to dress, first having lit my candle. But my fingers trembled in spite of my reasonings. My heart beat fast, when, having finished my hasty toilet, I took up the candle- stick, and approached the door. Just as I turned the key, the strange sounds were heard again, now more distinct than ever. I felt certain I detected two different voices, rising, every now and then, over the noise of the scuffling. I began to be sud- denly faint, and was compelled to sit down, for a space, on a chair by the door. But I soon grew ashamed of my weakness. In spite of the evidence of my senses, the intellectual part of me kept reasserting that there must be a nat- ural solution for this mystery, and that I had only to be bold in order to see these chimeras of my imag- ination fly away, as the ghost in the grave-yard fades into a white monument on   being resolutely ap. proached. So, when I had recovered breath, I rose again, unlocked the door and stepped out.   174    THE OLD STONE MANSION. A11 was dark and silent in the hall. The rain beat against the casement at the end of the passage, the wind wailed and sobbed around the house, the great pines moaned; but every thing in the direction of the library was hushed and quiet. I began now to realize how foolish I had been. I must have be- come so excited, I said to myself, by the narrative of old Jane, that my imagination had persuaded me its fancies were actual sounds. My spirits rose, with this conviction, and I advanced boldly down the staircase. There was a broad landing, as usual in mansions of a similar character, about one-third of the way down. I had gained this, had turned to descend the last flight, and had gone a few steps, when suddenly the library door swung open on its hinges, and a gush of light streamed out, filling all around with a radiance as vivid as that of noon-day. Looking over my left shoulder, I could see, for a little way, into the library; and I stopped and gazed, for a full minute, as if compelled to do so by some weird power, yet so appalled that the perspiration started out on my fore- head in great drops. There was nothing visible, however, except the dazzling effulgence which flooded the room, penetrating into every nook and corner which was visible to my sight. Directly a cold wind began to blow across me, from the haunted room; a   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      175 wind like that which comes out of a vast charnel house, that has long been shut up; and it went like an ice-bolt to my heart. My candle was extinguished by it in an instant. Then followed a low, prolonged wail, that was succeeded by scufflings, angry voices, sounds of blows, and the fall of a human body. I felt as if, the next moment, sheeted spectres would come rushing out. In imagination their death-cold fingers were already upon me. I tried to shriek, but could not. Terror had, froze my tongue. In the consciousness of my inability to give the alarm, my senses began to desert me; I  knew I was reeling, and clutching mechanically at the balustrade to pre- vent myself from falling, I made a last desperate effort to scream. Only a stifled mumbling came forth but it was one pregnant with horror. Instantly the library door banged to, and I was left in darkness, cowering on the steps, and holding fast to the ban- nisters, while I shook as if in a fit. I can hardly tell how I regained my chamber. Nor do I remember what I did there for the next five or ten minutes. I believe I remained on the bed, where I  had sunk, lying in a sort of half doze. Gradually I began to recover my faculties. I sat up and listened: at first fearfully, then with more cour. age. At last I  summoned resolution sufficient to light my other candle, for the one I had taken with   176    THE OLD STONE MANSION. me had dropped from my hands when I fell and was left on the stairs. The thought now suggested itself' to descend to the library door and knock for admit- tance. But a shudder of horror ran over me at the idea. So I began noiselessly to divest myself of my clothing, and leaving my candle burning, I crept silently into bed. There I lay listening, for more than an hour. Weird sounds of wind and rain came to my straining ears continually; but no unearthly ones, such as I had heard before. At last I fell into a doze, from which I was partially aroused by the parlor clock striking the hour of four or five, I could not tell which. I only remember the silvery sound, ringing through the hushed house, and that, as I tried to count the strokes, I dropped off again into sleep, completely exhausted. \   CHAPTER XVII. SUNDAY IN THE COUNTRY. A BRIGHT, blue sky; a bracing north-west wind; a flood of sunshine streaming in as I threw open my window, welcomed me, when I awoke the next day. In the presence of this glad, exhilarating morning, the events of the preceding night seemed incredible; and I persuaded myself that a dream had deceived me. "I was excited when I went to bed," I said to myself, "and the storm, the story of old Jane, and the long-closed room, mingled together, con- fusedly, in my brain, when asleep. That is all. What a fool I have been." As I spoke these words, half aloud, my eye fell on the dressing bureau, where I had placed my candlestick on retiring. The candlestick was not " - there. My confidence deserted me immediately. Some- thing of last night's terrors came back. My heart beat fast. I dressed hurriedly, resolved to seek the missing article. Cautiously I opened the door and looked "             (177)   178    THE OLD STONE MANS1ON. out. Old Jane was not yet stirring: all was silent on the staircase and in the hall below. Putting my hand on my heart to stop its throbbing, and wait- ing a moment to gather breath and courage, I noise- lessly descended to the first landing. ",If it was not a dream," I had kept saying to myself, 'I shall find the candlestick there." But I had tried to believe that I should not find it. I had even half persuaded myself that old Jane had been up already, and had been into my chamber and removed it. This delusion, however, was no longer possible when I discovered the door of my room locked and double-locked; and on reaching the landing, I saw the candlestick lying on the stairs below me, the candle broken off in the middle, as if by the fall. My knees knocked together, and I should have fallen, if I had not caught at the rail. It was by a great effort that I resisted screaming. For a few seconds every thing spun around me. Then I found myself sitting on the landing, leaning against the balusters, in a state of weakness indescribable, my heart palpitating so that I thought I should suffocate. The scene of the last night rose vividly before me: the light streaming from the door, the scuf- fling, the groans, the dying fall. I shut my eyes. I \..   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     179 rose to fly back to my room, but my limbs sank under me, and I sat down again trembling. The force of these terrors was increased, doubtless, by the dim twilight around me; for as yet the shutters had not been opened, even on the staircase, and the only light was that which streamed in through the chinks of the great hall door. I had not remained long in this condition, how- ever, when I heard a heavy step, slowly descending from the attic, followed by old Jane's morning cough. These familiar sounds restored me to myself. Ashamed to be caught where I would be certainly questioned, and hai v-rount my midnight ter- rors, I snatched the candlestictand succeeded in gaining my room, noiselessly and undetected. I breakfasted in nervous silence. Old Jane, who waited at table, as usual, seemed inclined to talk; but I answered her only in monosyllables, and at last her garrulity stopped. I did not care to take her into my confidence, and I was too agitated by the events of the night to speak on indifferent sub- jects; besides, I was silently revolving a scheme to explore the library, during the afternoon, when she was accustomed to take a siesta. Partly to compose my thoughts till then, and partly to shake off entirely the terrors of the night, I started, immediately after breakfast, to walk to Of   180    THE OLD STONE MANSION. church, though old Jane would have dissuaded me, in consequence of theGwet condition of the roads. But I knew that there would be nothing like the bracing air, the bright sunshine, and the rapid exer- cise, to dissipate the night-mare of my thoughts, and give me the nerve to carry out my intended explor- ation. Besides, I felt that I needed, this morning, if ever, the soothing influence of the solemn and beautiful Litany of my church. The fields were sodden from the storm of the night; the cedars along the fences sparkled with rain-drops; the atmosphere was damp, almost chilly; the leafless woods looked drenched; a few crows, that seemed half drowned, were the only birds about. Every thing betokened the near approach of winter. Even the brisk, northwest wind, which so quickened the electric current in my veins, gave warning, with its sharp, bracing salute, that the autumn had now fairly gone. The sun, brilliantly as it shone, was far in the south, and his beams were exhilarating rather than warm: I had to walk fast, in fact, to keep myself comfortable. But it was a walk I long remembered. At every season of the year, the country is beautiful to me, and as I hurried along, I felt the blood quickening within me, and my heart expanding and growing lighter. The horror of the night fell from my brain   THE. OLD STONE MANSION.     181 at every step. The last vestiges of its gloom were dissipated, when the chimes of the little church began to sound, filling the air with. music, that came and went in gushes, like the perfume of spring- flowers on a soft, south wind. A charmingly pic- turesque object was that little church. It had been built, principally by a wealthy neighboring proprie- tor, after the model of one of those ancient, one- storied English parish churches, with high-pitched roofs, which mark the best period of Gothic art; and it stood on a small acclivity, overlooking the country around, like a beacon out at sea. As I approached it, the chimes ceased, and every thing appeared so preternaturally still, that I stopped involun- tarily. The golden sunshine silently bathed the landscape; the white country-seats, scattered about, seemed lifeless; no teams or husbandmen were in the fields; not even a solitary crow was heard or seen. I thought of heaven, that it was even more beautiful and calm; and I silently thanked God for this delicious day, which was, in part, an ante-type of what was to come. Then, all at once, the chimes rung   out again, waking me from my reverie, yet filling me with new emotions of joy and gratitude. I never have felt as if a church, in a great city, was in its place. At  least, there is something in a   182    THE OLD STONE MANSION. country church, where the cool breeze blows in at the open windows, and the trees can be heard rust- ling outside, that affects me with a sensation of reverence, such as the most splendid city edifice fails to awaken. For the hour and a half that I sat within those quiet and sacred walls, I as utterly for- got the events of the night before, as if they had never happened. Blessed day! which once in every seven withdraws Us from material pursuits, and in- vites us to spiritual thoughts. But with my return to the old mansion, came back something of the feelings of the morning. It was not so much a mysterious terror which now possessed me, however, as curiosity and resolution, mixed with a little awe. I thought, after dinner, that old Jane would never go up stairs to her siesta. My eagerness, at last, made me positively nervous. Minutes seemed like hours to my excited brain. I could not keep still. I sat down, then I rose up im- mediately. I wandered from the parlor to the dining-room, and thence to the kitchen. I was on the point, more than once, of offering to assist old Jane to wash her dishes, and only refrained because I feared she might suspect my design. Indeed, I fancied that she had watched me covertly, all day, as if she half divined my intentions. At last my suspense came to an end; old Jane   ,THE OLD STONE MANSION.     183 had gone off up stairs. After waiting a sufficient interval for- her to get to sleep, I stole, silently, out into the hall, and approached the library door. I will not say that my heart did not beat faster. Several times, during the day, I had looked cau- tiously at that door, and every time my pulses had throbbed quicker. But I had no longer any fear. It was very different, this- broad, cheerful daylight, from the gloomy midnight, or even the dim shadows of early morning. I had been unable to form any plan for proceed- ing, though I had thought of it nearly all the time. I determined, however, to try first at this door in- stead of the windows outside, because I could not be- lieve, if it had been really open last night, but that I should discover some traces of the fact now. When I had examined it on my first arrival, under the influence of what I now thought a presentiment, it bore every indication of having been closed for twenty years, as old Jane had told me. Judge of my surprise when I found that it looked now ex- actly as it did then! The dust in the corners, even the cobwebs at the top, seemed precisely what they were three weeks before. A little of the awe of the night came back to me, when I saw this: but with a resolute heart, nevertheless, I proceeded to try the lock. The knob turned rustily; but the door would   184    THE OLD STONE MANSION. not yield. I now pushed with all my strength. Still the door was immovable. A third time I tried, shaking the door violently. The dust flew out of the corners, and something made a noise inside that startled me, for a moment. Then I said to my- self that it was only a rat, and I tried the door again. The effort was as vain as the former ones. I might as well have flung myself against a moun- tain. Only there was a dull echo, like a stifled moan, as if inside the room. The cold perspiration started out on /my forehead. Before I could recover myself, a hand was laid on my shoulder, skinny and cold, and I was drawn forcibly back. I screamed with horror. The next instant, however, I saw that it was only old Jane, who had thrust herself between me and the door. "For God's sake," said this weird-looking crea- ture, seeming now more witch-like than ever, and speaking under the excitement of terror, "are you mad? Do you wish to bring back the devils from hell?" My courage, which had rallied when I saw who had interrupted me, fell again at these words. Ear- nestness always carries conviction with it. Terror- especially terror of the supernatural-is infectious. It was enough to look at the face before me, to hear   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     180 the awe-struck voice, to be convinced, that, if I persisted, some nameless horror would certainly overtake- us. Under the influence of this convic- tion, I retreated- silently to the parlor, while old Jane remained on the watch in the hall. Later in the. day Georgiana returned. But I said nothing to her of what I had heard or seen. I knew that, if she suspected the true character of the place, she would be in agonies of terror. "She. may never have my experience," I said, "or, if she has, it will be time enough then." So I put on a cheerful face, and listened smilingly to her description of the little incidents of her journey; for she was in high spirits, and rattled on like a child let loose for a holiday. She urged me to stay all night. But this I could not have done, in any event, for I was expected at Madame Modiste's early on Monday morning, and it was necessary, therefore, that I should sleep in town, at the cheap boarding-house where I had taken lodgings.   CHAPTER   XVIII. MADAME MODISTE'S. MADAME MODISTE called herself a Frenchwoman, and printed on her cards, conspicuously, "from Paris." But her English was spiced with idioms which could never have been acquired from a linguist; and her French, which she said was pure Parisian, had an unmistakable provincial twang. At this time she was in the full tide of success as a fashionable milliner and mantua-maker; for she had tact, subserviency, and really excellent taste. Her charges were proportioned to her popularity. Many and deep were the oaths, sworn by testy fathers or penurious husbands, at the semi-annual appearance of her bills. Often did prudent matrons resolve never to employ Madame again.  "It is shameful: never was such an extravagant creature: I told her to put little or no trimming on that sum- mer silk, and here she has charged forty dollars for making it." But nobody could fit and trim like Madame Modiste, and so the fair recusants, sooner (186)   THE OLD STONE MANSION.;     187 or later, returned to their allegiance. On coming out of a West-end church, any fair Sunday, a listener might have heard such exclamations as these: "There's that creature, Caroline Crane, has actually bought that divine dress I saw at Madame Modiste's and wanted so badly; I wonder what she won't do next." "Oh! Annie, do look at that purple silk, trimmed with velvet; that's Mad- ame Modiste's cut; I should know it among a thousand." Madame, with all this, was naturally indolent. Most of her time was spent in a wrapper, on a sofa, reading novels. She was extravagantly fond of coffee, which she had made and brought to her half a dozen times a day. How often, when we were hurried, and forced to work late into the night, have we looked longingly at the steaming cups, which tantalized us with their fragrant aroma! But never once, during all the months I worked for her, did Madame offer any of us a cup of coffee, or indeed the slightest bit of refreshment. More- over, the wages she paid were proverbially low. For odd hours she made no allowance. I had not been many weeks at Madame's, before I realized that Mr. Talbot had not exaggerated, when he said that women themselves were the worst oppressors of women.   THE OLD STONE MANSION. I was, I believe, a favorite with Madame. She fancied I had taste, and often entrusted dresses and bonnets to me to trim. I was finally removed from the common working apartment, and stationed in a little retiring-chamber, just back of her show- room, where, with two other young women, I was kept trimming, and occasionally called out to wait on customers. In some respects this change was an improvement on my condition: in others it was not. The work was lighter and more agreeable, and I saw a good deal of character, which often amused me consider- ably. But the chances of my recognition were greatly increased. What I principally feared was that my aunt would call, on some day when Ma- dame's rooms were crowded, and that I would be compelled to come forward. I comforted myself, however, with the reflection that Mrs. Elliott had always dealt at a rival establishment. From others I had less to fear. Though I was familiar with the persons and antecedents of most of our customers, I was unknown to most of them; and the alteration in my name, dress, and general appearance, would disguise me, I hoped, even from those who had met me at my uncle's. Madame worshiped wealth and social position. She had one manner for customers who came on   THE OLD STONE MANSION.   i89.   foot, and quite another for those who drove up in carriages. There was a perceptible difference in her demeanor to different ladies even of the latter class. Her reception of twenty-thousand a-year was twice as deferential as her reception of ten thousand. To Mrs. Exclusive, who had a hundred thousand, she was all smiles, at least before the great lady's face, for she often sneered at her as a "vulgar dowdy" behind her back. She was not, however, always1 servile. If a visitor was insolent, Madame could be insolent too. When the penurious Mrs. Pert came to order a dress, intending to take it for a pattern for others, which her maid was to make up, Madame bluntly refused the commission, and sent the fine lady off in a huff. But, in general, Madame owed as much- to her adroit flattery as to her skillful fit. "How well you are looking!" she exclaimed to the yellow Mrs. Mooney; "you are one of the few that green becomes."  "Ah! Mrs. Argent," she cried, "you are the very person I wished to see. Girls, one of you bring that opera- hat, that came last night from Paris. I said, when I opened the box, that yours was just the face for it."  "I heard your new silver moire antique," she said to Mrs. D'Alencon, "which you wore at the Benedicts' Ball, was admired by everybody. Mrs. Point was here yesterday, in raptures about it."    190     THE OLD STONE MANSION. Mrs. D'Alencon was one of Madame's best custom. ers. She had just entered, as these words were spoken, and now sank languidly into a seat, with an air of fine ladyism- indescribable. "Ah! the Benedicts' ball," she lisped. "I saw dear Mrs. Point there. But it's the last one I shall go to. It used to be quite select, but now one has to dance opposite one's carpenter's daughters." "I told one of the managers as much," interposed her sister, a faded beauty of thirty-five, who had been too exclusive to marry anybody but an English nobleman, and who, as English noblemen are scarce in America, had been compelled to remain single. "I said the affair was shockingly promiscuous." "What did he say to that?" asked her sister, tri- umphantly. "He only shrugged his shoulders." "Oh I then I know who it was. It was Mr. Con- way, I'm sure. He has, you know, the strangest ideas." And she turned to Madame. "He talks some nonsense, to , that I never could bear to listen to, about its bein nobbish to set up to be better than one's neighbors. I got out of patience with him, the last time I heard him, and told him, if I didn't know his family, T should think him some vulgar upstart." "He's always laughing at us girls," interposed C   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     191 her sister, " for not countenancing that pushing, ex- travagant, impudent thing, Caroline-Crane. He says we are envious of her, because she, has more money to spend than we have; and that, for his part, he don't see why a girl, whose father was a tailor, is not as good as one 'whose pa was a politician or lawyer :' these are his very words." "A month or two ago he was raving about that Miss Gray, whom Mr. Talbot was going to marry: Mr. Talbot, of the Talbot Manor family, Madame." I thought I should have sunk through the floor at this mention of my name, for I now feared that our customers, whom I remembered having seen at Georgiana's birth-night ball, might recognize me. I shrunk back into the darkest corner and bent over my work. The sister answered, "For my part, I could never see what there was in that girl to care about. She was a poor relation, I believe, of the Elliotts-wasn't she, Madame?" Madame replied that she had never executed any orders for the Elliotts. The daughter, she said, had looked in occasionally, but never bought any thing: she had an idea, that, once or twice, the niece had accompanied the daughter: but she really forgot. It was quite a tragedy, she had heard. Miss Elliott had run away with a barber, who had passed him- self off for a German count; and: the niece was at   192     THE OLD STONE MANSION. the bottom of it, because she wanted Mr. Talbot for herself, who, at first, was in love with the daughter. "No, that's not exactly it," said the married visi- tor. "I have the right story from the Frigids, who were at the sea-shore, last summer, with the Elli- otts, and who saw the whole thing. This niece, it seems, was taken out of charity, and was, for a long while, a sort of nursery governess in the family. The Elliotts, Madame, as you know, are not exactly in our set, though I visit them occasionally: and it was years before I was aware there was such a per- son as this Miss Gray. She's a cunning, artful minx, they say, and when, last summer, the Elliotts took her to the sea-shore, she made a dead set to get noticed. The Elliotts tried, but couldn't keep her down. They were heartily ashamed of her, you may be sure. How she fastened herself on Mr. Tal- bot, nobody could tell---" "No, she isn't pretty," interposed the sister. "Nor, I suppose, accomplished," returned Ma- dame. "Not a bit of either," continued the first speaker. "But, as I was saying, she caught Mr. Talbot, in some way; the men, at any rate, are all fools in such matters; and when the family came back to town, the engagement was publicly announced, and then, for the first time, I saw Miss Gray."   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     193 "But about her taking him away from the daughter?" "Oh I there wasn't a word of truth about that. It was worse. - She introduced this fellow, who was a valet, not a barber, to her cousin: she had picked him up, as an acquaintance, under the arbor on the beach; and she did all she could to throw them to- gether, thinking, that if Miss Elliott ran away with him, the parents would disown their child; and she get part of the great Elliott fortune. The girl, that is the daughter, did run away with him, but the niece's share in it was found out, and the Elliotts at once turned her from their doors; and, the same dav, Mr. Talbot sent her word that he had changed his mind. What's become of her, since, I haven't heard. Perhaps she's trying the same, game at some public hotel. There's always such creatures hanging about, they say, to trap silly young heirs, or foolish old widowers, Didn't we hear a story, Mary, of a widow Jones, an impudent young woman, that somebody saw at the St. Crispin, lately? If I remember, she was just such a figure as this Miss Gray : a great, coarse-looking thing." "Very likely," answered her sister. "But I wasn't by when you heard the story. She's as cunning- looking as a cat though, and I've no doubt she paints. Nobody who didn't paint, could have had 12   194    THE OLD STONE MANSION. such a Complexion as she had that night at Elliott's. But bless me!" she cried, as the French clock struck, from the mantle-piece, " how the morning is going. Hadn't we better look at Madame's new arrivals? I do so want to get something that will be prettier than that head-dress Caroline Crane wears, and which Mr. Conway vows is the most stylish thing of the season. They say all her things come direct from Paris." The reader may imagine my sensations during this dialogue. My cheek was in a flame all the while. Until the speakers left, I was a prey to an indignation I could scarcely restrain. But the more I thought, afterward, of what they said, the more I felt disposed to laugh at it all. It was just such people that I had shunned, when I had been envied as the future bride of Mr. Talbot. Why should I care now for whatthey said? "Cunning, coarse, and paints," I thought to my- self, that night, as I looked into the mirror; and I smiled. "Dear ladies, how envy and malignity jaundice the eyes."   CHAPTER XIX. THE MEETING. "I WISH you would go out and buy these trim- mings," said Madame to me, one day. "You must match the color exactly." This was the first time I had been entrusted with such a commission. It was a welcome relief, even on that wintry day, to exchange the close room for the open air,the tiresome sewing for a brisk walk. I threw on my cloak, and was soon on the street, hurrying along to the place of my destination, my blood coursing quicker, as the sharp, bracing wind swept by my cheek. I had taken a seat at the counter of the trimming store, and was waiting while the shop-girl compared my bit of silk with bundle after bundle of gimp, when, suddenly, I heard a step that I recognized, and which set me all in a tremble -directly. Among a thousand other steps I would have known that one. I looked around. Near the door, as if he had just entered, stood Mr. Talbot. A whirl of thoughts and emotions rushed over (195)   196    THE OLD STONE MANSION. me. Would he see me? Would he speak to me if he did? What ought I to do? Ah I I had no doubt what I would do. I had long since resolved lhow to act if we met. In that last interview, I had often said I had been even more in the wrong than he had been. I could not go to him and tell him this; but if he came to me, I would not be too proud to acknowledge my fault. It was through pride that the angels fell. Why should I permit pride to destroy his happiness and mine? If he was to speak to me, I would promptly give him my hand: and if he still loved me, that would be enough. After a moment's delay, he moved up the store, in my direction. My breath hung suspended. The destiny of my life depended on the next few seconds. If he did not recognize me in my altered dress, or if he still retained his anger, there was nothing left for me but to go on, lonely and unloved, till death should give me peace at last. Blessed death! which comes to the unhappy, as a jailer comes to release a prisoner from a dungeon, where he has seen no light of day for years, where he has felt no fresh wind blowing on his fevered brow. Suddenly Mr. Talbot stopped. One of the prin- cipals of the firm had approached, with whom ap- parently he had business; and the two, after shaking   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     197 hands, proceeded into a little side-room, used as a counting-house. The store suddenly seemed to grow dark to me, as if night was setting in: and for an instant I saw every thing through a dizzy haze. I was aroused by the shop-girl asking me if I thought a piece of gimp, which she held up, would suit me. How, all through life, triyial things, occurrences comparatively of no moment, tread on those which are as solemn as death, and which have consequences that vibrate throughout Eternity! This simple question brought me back to every-day life. From the shipwreck of all my hopes, I turned, with an unmoved face, to examine the color of the gimp. Little did that girl suspect the tragedy which had been enacted before her. I -think it will do," I said, in a voice unnaturally calm: and then I proceeded to show her other silks, which also I wished matched. Half an hour passed, and then my commissions were all executed. I rose to go. After the first pang of disappointment, I had begun to think that Mr. Talbot might reappear, before I left the store; and hope had once more agitated me. But now I could hope no longer. Just as I said this to myself, the door of the count- ing-room opened and Mr. Talbot appeared, shaking   198    THE OLD STONE -MANSION. hands with the proprietor, as if in leave-taking. Had I moved on, at that moment, it would have been impossible not to have met Mr. Talbot, face to face, as he turned. But the instinctive feelings of my sex arrested my steps. I shook, indeed, with sudden and uncontrollable emotion, so that I had to steady myself by the counter; and I felt myself flushing red, then paling to a deathly white; but I could not move; it was as if my ibs had Seen suddenly paralyzed. The shop-girl saw ry-ondi- tion, and asked me if I was ill. I heard her, only vaguely; she seemed to be miles away. Yet, at the same time, every syllable that Mr. Talbot uttered, comparatively distant as he was, came sharp and clear to my ears. Every faculty of my mind--and my mind was as preternaturally active, at that mo- ment, as my limbs were benumbed-was concen- trated on what was passing at the front part of the store. Mr. Talbot had now finished saying the few cus- tomary words of farewell, and had drawn on his gloves. He paused, at this point, before turning to the door, and ran his eye slowly over the establish- ment. I was certain now that he would see me. But before his eye had passed down the store to the place where I stood, some remark of his companion made him turn again; and immediately after, with- out resuming his survey, he passed into the street.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.   ' 199 It was all over. The barred gateway, which shut me out from heaven, fell with a clang that made every nerve and fibre in me quiver with the in- tensest agony. For a few brief seconds, I had caught a glimpse of the golden radiance within; had seen the happy groups walking to and fro in the green shadows; had beheld the way open to me to enter also. But now I was banished forever from the celestial gates. An unseen hand turned me back. I was alone. The way was bleak and dreary; the gloom was full of awful shapes: the bitter sleet stung me as it fell. I woke with a start from this dream, to hear the shop-girl say: "I have brought you a glass of water; Miss. Drink a little, and perhaps you'll feel better. Are you faint?" "Thank you," I said, placing the glass to my lips. "It is nothing. I was only dizzy for a mo- ment." "Perhaps it is the heat of the store. I often get the headache from it myself." "Perhaps." I returned the glass as I spoke, and mechanically prepared to go. "Are you strong enough to walk? Hadn't you better sit down and rest awhile?" "No, the fresh air will be the best thing for me."   200    THE OLD STONE MANSION. I went out, hardly knowing what I did. At the door I turned in the wrong direction, and had gone some steps before I discovered my mistake. I reached Madame's soon after, out of breath, I had walked unconsciously so rapidly. She asked me, finding I could not speak at first, if I was sick, if I had lost any thing; nor would she entirely believe me, when I assured her that I was quite well. She looked at me several times, curiously, during the next five minutes. My face must have had some- thing very strange about it, for when I had taken my seat, my nearest companion, a girl by no means troubled with imagination, leaned over and whis- pered that I looked as if I had seen a ghost. From that day my life was more wearisome than ever. I saw nothing in the future for which to hope. Indeed, I lost even ordinary ambition. I had at first accepted this situation as a temporary refuge only, intending to continue looking out for employment as a governess or school-teacher. But now I gave up all thought of this. I might as well remain what I was, I said to myself; the difference between my present employment and any other, was nothing now. In the extremest agony, we are unconscious of slight pains. Who thinks of a head- ache on the rack? The companionship of my   fellow workwomen,   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      201 which hitherto I had only endured, I now welcomed, with all its distastefulness, as part of my destiny. I took a morbid pleasure in it. It was a species of martyrdom; and because it was such, I hugged it to my heart. I would listen, for hours, to their idle gossip, if not with interest, at least without inatten- tion. My silence, which they mistook for sympathy, led them, one by one, to make me their confidante. I now realized, for the first time, how trivial the minds of too many of my sex are. I speculated oc- casionally, in a grim, desperate way, whether this was the result of organization, or education. I had always, before this, maintained that it was the latter. But now I doubted. Mine was a condition, at that crisis, to make me skeptical of whatever was good, to make me incline always to the worst view of things. May you, reader, never be like-I was then! hieufr was- only too much, after all, in my as- sociates, to make me despise my sex. Of all that large number, not one but worshiped wealth, but had a passion for dress, but nourished secretly in her little head dreams of marrying, so to speak, some' prince in disguise. They were mostly the daughters of poor mechanics; -and having acquired, in their profession, some small refinement, were contemptuous of the men in their own walk in life, and thought only of those, who, as a rule, never could be ex-   202     THE OLD STONE MANSION. pected to look at them, unless dishonorably. Too many of them, I fear, have fallen victims, long ago, to their folly and silliness. The fine ladies who visited Madame's, were their envy. To live in a palace in the West End, to drive a carriage, to have all the dresses they wished, to wear jewelry like Mrs. Pert, to give grand parties, to go to Newport in summer: for these, and things like them, alas! they were ready to sell their very souls! But why should I say they only? At that time I despised these poor girls. God forgive me for it! For now I pity them. They had never had the culture which others enjoy, and deserved more charity, therefore, than they received. Yet thou- sands of women, more favorably circumstanced by birth and education, are just as vain and venial. Why does the girl at eighteen give herself away to a rich man, old enough to be her father, and who has nothing in common with her elegant tastes and youthful enthusiasm? Is it love that moves her? See how she shrinks, involuntarily, from him, as he approaches. Listen to what her maid tells of her tears and hesitation on the eve of marriage. She is just as much sold, as the great satirist of our day has said, as if she had been a Circassian slave. Her own vanity, and the false importance attached to wealth by her parents, have sent her charms to the   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     203 shambles, exactly as similar charms are shipped to the slave-markets of Constantinople. Oh! houses and lands, wealth and position, fashion and show, how many hearts have you separated-how many souls destroyed! It is because of you that marri- age has ceased, in a great degree, to be the holy sacrament which God designed it for, and has become, instead, a mere bargain and sale. And the evil con. sequences of such marriages do not end with this life: they reach to eternity; they perpetuate them- selves, through children brought up in bickering households, through generations almost without end. There are many of my sex who will read this, and say I exaggerate. They themselves are mar- ried. They have deliberately cast off those they loved, to marry rich men who have no sympathy with them. Yet they are, they would tell me, happy. They rarely, indeed, see their husbands, who are always at the club, or the counting-house, or the office. We all know such women. They have the sleek skins, the emotionless faces, the plump forms of creatures without souls, and are therefore ignor- ant of what happiness is. The blade, in them, never cuts the scabbard. Their husbands are like them. To such, marriage is a mere social institution, and love only the dream of school-boys and sentimental misses. They go through life decorously, the women   204    TIIE OLD STONE MANSION. especially, no pulse ever quickening, no nerve ever vibrating. Not for them is the agony of the probe, or the rapture of real sympathy. Let them vege- tate with their kind. They cannot judge for me. Shall those who have heard celestial music, deny there is a heaven? Oh! there are some who, though fainting and weary outside the gates, and doomed forever to 'wander in exile, have yet listened, once at least, to the golden harps, and will carry with them to their graves the bliss of that memory: ay, and be happier in spite of their sorrows, than those on whom the beatific vision never dawned I CHAPTER    XX. "IN SOCIETY." AMONG Madame's patrons I must not forget the Misses Green. They were tall, stylish-looking girls, the amplitude of whose crinoline, and the smallness of whose bonnets, were rivaled only in the carica- tures of "Punch."   They had formerly lived in a second-rate country town, and now existed only to "get into society." What they meant by this, in-   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     205 deed what is generally meant by it, I never could discover. My aunt certainly considered herself "in society," but had I not lieard Mrs. D'Alencon, since I had been at Madame's, sneer at my aunt's set? Was not Mrs. Pert said to look down, on the other hand, on- Mrs. D'Alencon? Did not Mrs. Honiton, who had built a house big enough for a hotel, and who had spent half her life abroad, turn up her nose at both the D'Alencons and the Perts? Had not Mrs. Honiton herself been "cut" by the very "proper" set of which Mrs. Cant was the leader? Yet every one of these pretended to be " in society." They could not all be so, if each was right in the assertion that her rival, or rivals, was not. If Mrs. Pert gave a party to which Mrs. D'Alencon was not invited, Mrs. D'Alencon would say, con- temptuously, "Pooh! hardly anybody in society was there." Did Mrs. Honiton have a reception, and her receptions professed to gather together brilliant peo- ple chiefly, and omit either of the ladies, they re- torted by saying that Mrs. Honiton had got to be too indiscriminate, since she opened her doors to the vulgar herd of artists, literary men, and other celeb- rities. "Society!"I had once heard Mr. Talbot say. '"There is no such thing, at least in the sense in which these people use it. Abroad, admittance to courts   206     THE OL D STONE MANSION. is a recognized test of being in society; but here there is neither a king nor an established aristocracy; and hence it is not only absurd, but impertinent, to claim to be in society, and assert that others are not. Besides, who constitute this so-called society? This one's ancestor was a German redemptioner, who hawked oranges about the streets; that one's a con- vict, who had been transported to the Virginia plan- tations. The great grandfather of one was a Tory, who saved his estate from confiscation, at last, by betraying his king. It is not honorable birth, there- fore, which makes a man a member of it. It cannot be intellect, for the jabber at Colonel Rigid's din- ners, to which I have often been invited, is as sense- less as that of a party of apes: wines, horses, billiards, and French cookery are all the men can talk about; and scandal and the fashions all that the women can. Go to one of our fashionable evening parties. You see two hundred people, every one of whom con- siders it a bore, and nearly every one of whom, on going away, abuses the entertainment. Poor Mrs. Spoon, who has given the dance, has spent her thou- sand dollars and worried herself sick, only to be ridiculed for the blunders of her confectioner or cook. If our so-called society had in it acquirements, refinement, eloquence in the men, brilliancy in the la- dies, knightly courtesy on one side, grace and woman-   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     207 liness on the other, it might make some pretensions, perhaps, to be superior. Or if it was founded on honorable birth, even, one might-comprehend its claims. I can understand how a hero may be wor- shiped in his descendants. It is well for the repub- lic that Washington left no children. Don't you think I would rather have the blood of Vikings in my veins, as you have, Margaret, than the vile pud- dle of the cowards who ran away when they landed? But when American society talks about birth, it is the counterfeit, not the reality. If we are to wor- ship family, let us have the real article. I have a friend, in my city, whose ancestors fought at Cressy; yet because he iscomparatively poor, and loves books better than fashionable balls, Mrs. Spbon would tell you, if you asked her, that he was not ' in society ;' and these very Spoons, a century ago, were making the pewter utensils from which they take their name." The Misses Green, however, had never heard this conversation, and if they had, it would not have altered them. They were born flunkeys. They toadied to the Rigids, the D'Alencons, and the Perts, by turns. They followed one to the Bluffs this year, and another to Newport the next, in order to make or cement their acquaintance. They coaxed their mother to give children's parties, on the plea of a   208'    THE OLD STONE IMANS IONO. younger sister, in order to get people "in society" to follow their little ones to the Green mansion. They joined fashionable charities, and went to a West-End church, as other means of acquiring posi- tion. If they had known how their new friends -saw through and sneered at their schemes, it might per- haps have cured them. But no! for Mrs. D'Alencon and Mrs. Argent abused each other just as much. When they met at Madame's rooms, they rushed at each other with kisses and protestations of affection; but as soon as one had left, the other began to pick her to pieces, dress, character, every thing. "Come," said Miss Crawley, to Becky, after a dinner-party at the former's, "let us go up stairs and abuse the com- pany." All the fine ladies who came to Madame's, were Miss Crawleys. One day, the Misses Green came in to look for early spring bonnets. I did not, on that morning, wait on them, being engaged with another customer, so it was some time before I became aware that they were talking of a name, that I could never hear, even yet, without agitation. "Oh I! it's a settled thing, my dear Mrs. D'Alen- con," said the elder Miss Green. "Such a trousseau as she is to have. But even the Beverleys may be proud, I suppose, of an alliance with the Talbots." I could not hear Mrs. D'Alencon's reply. It was   THE OLD- STONE MANSO6:N.     2C9 beneath me to listen, intentionally, even when I was so deeply interested. But directly the elder Miss Green spoke again, and as she always talked loud, I heard what she said. "They go to Europe the next week after the mar- riage. Yes; it's all true about the satin corsets, the cambric-" here she added something in a whisper, "and the diamonds that Mr. Talbot is to give. She's a pretty creature, but not a bit stylish. You don't think her stylish, Mrs. D'Alencon?" This time I heard Mrs. D'Alencon's answer. "No, not a bit stylish, my dear: none of those fair complexions ever are." Mrs. D'Alencon her- self was as dark as a quadroon. "But some men, you know, like that sort of thing. They think blue eyes and good tempers go together. They don't know, my child, what we do." And she laughed satirically. "There's- Mrs. Black, Black's second wife, who is as great a shrew as ever lived; gives the poor man no peace at all; and she has blue eyes, flaxen hair, and a milk-and-water complexion, just like Miss Beverley." If I had been in any doubt as to who was the Mr. Talbot, who was one of the subjects of this discussion, I was not destined to be left so long. That very day I was sent out on an errand, which carried me through one of the most fashionable streets of the city. 13   210    THE OLD STONE MANSION. Wide, handsome mansions, built of brown stone, lined either side of the stately street. Here and there, from amid damask and lace curtains, lovely faces looked out, through thick plate-glass of a rose- colored hue. Rare, hot-house plants ornamented many of the windows. Splendid equipages, with pawing horses and fat, stately-looking negro coach- men, stood before the doors, or rolled up and down the wide thoroughfare. Suddenly, the massive portal of a house, just be- fore me, was thrown open, by the obsequious waiter, and a gentleman and lady emerged. My heart beat quick, for I recognized in the gentleman, Mr. Tal- bot. His face was slightly turned away, as he ad- dressed his companion, so that he did not observe me, but I beheld enough of it to see that there was no trace of suffering there. And why should there be? I said to myself, bitterly. He was rich, he was distinguished, he was still happy; and the separa- tion, which, in spite of my pride, was thinning Mny cheek, had left no trace upon him. He gave his hand to the lady. As he did so, she turned, smiling and blushing, toward him, and I caught sight, for an instant, of her countenance. It was very beautiful. As I saw the bright, blue, laughing eyes; the golden hair; the brilliant com-   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     2" plexion; the high-bred air, a sudden pang of jeal- ousy shot through me. It was a sensation I had never experienced before. In the worst hours of my loneliness and sorrow, when I said to myself that I should never see Mr. Talbot, ,again, and when I had often thought of the possibility of his marrying, I had never, I now felt, realized what the reality would be, when he came to love another. But I was deceived no longer. I discovered, too, how much hope I had unconsciously entertained, and how much that hope had buoyed me up. Oh! if I could have sunk down, and died there, and so forgotten it all, how happy I could have been. I trembled lest Mr. Talbot might see and recog- nize me. Fortunately I was still several yards off; and I slackened my pace and drew the folds of my vail still tighter. With inexpressible relief I saw him descend the steps, cross the pavement, and hand his companion into the light, trotting wagon, which stood awaiting them. He did not look in my direc- tion. In another moment, he had taken the reins from the groom, had leaped to the seat, and drawn the costly furs up over her lap and his. Then, with a quick, sharp word to the horses, a span of beautiful blood-bays, away dashed the  light carriage, the groom and waiter standing mute and admiring, to look after them.   212     THE OLD STONE MANSION. By this time I was directly in front of the house. I hardly doubted who the lady was; but to make it certain, I glanced up at the door-plate. There, on a silver ground, in plain Roman letters, after the most exclusive style, I read the name of Beverley. It was but a momentary glance, and then I turned to follow, with my eyes, the retreating pair. A spell was on me that I could not resist, and it would have been impossible for me to do otherwise. What a contrast between the bold driver and his slightly timid companion! She was all womanly grace, he all masculine strength. The bright colors of her bonnet and India shawl; the plume that streamed behind her; the air of indescribable dependence which pervaded her whole figure, as she nestled to- ward him; the quick, resolute manner in which he pulled up one of the horses that shied from sheer ex- cess of spirits; the idea of strength and self-poised massiveness of character, with which the grave hue of his dress harmonized so well: all these made up a picture, which haunted me for months subse- quently. I noticed also the beauty of the horses, with a sensation, half of admiration, half of envy. How satin-like their coats I how delicate their ears I how broad their foreheadsl how intelligent their eyes I how full their nostrils! In every detail, as well as in the exquisite symmetry of their forms, I   THE OLD STONE MANSION.   2!   3 saw the unstained lineage, that could go back to "the blood of the desert." For I was born with a love for all animal life, and especially for beautiful horses, the noblest of animals. So I followed the mettled steeds, with my eyes, far up the street, till they were wheeled suddenly. Then I saw them, for an instant, tossing their heads and snapping at each other; and the next moment they vanished, with their burden, down a cross street. Anger now came to my aid. Up to this moment, I had been spell-bound. While that carriage was in sight I could not think, I could only gaze, gaze in a sort of bewildered amazement. But now a sense of injustice stung me to almost madness. I said to my- self that Mr. Talbot had never loved me as I had loved him, or he could not have so utterly forgotten me so soon. My woman's pride rose in arms., My anger against him was only less hot than that which I felt against his companion, for I looked on her- yes! I will confess it, morbid as it shows me to have been-as even more culpable than himself. How I got back to Madame's I never knew, nor how I endured, for the rest of the day, the restraint I had to be under there. But when I reached my boarding-house, at night, I rushed up to my room, locked myself in, and gave free vent to my long- restrained agonies of remorse, shame and indigna. tion. But I draw a vail over my sufferings.   CHAPTER XXT. A NIGHT OF HORROR. THE twilight was shutting in, on a windy April night, when a carriage drove up to the door of my boarding-house, and Georgiana got out. I had seen but little of my cousin during the winter, my employment and the distance of the old mansion preventing my visiting her; and she, her- self, had-been unable, except at long intervals, to get into the city. "I have come for you, Maggie," she said, "to go home with me. I won't take no," she added, seeing me shake my head in the negative, " for I know you can come if you choose. Arthur has gone to and will not be back till to-morrow afternoon. I will send you home by the carriage which brings him out. I won't take 'no,' indeed I won't." I was feeling miserably low in spirits, and would have preferred to be alone. I tried to make some indifferent excuse. I was not very well, I said: my company would -be but a poor thing: couldn't she do without me? Besides, what would Madame say? (214)   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     215 Gebrgiana burst into tears. "Oh!" she said, " everybody deserts me. The old house out there, is so lonely, that I sometimes think I shall die of it. I hear such strange noises, too, at night. Arthur laughs at me,and says it's foolish- ness; but I'm afraid, indeed, indeed I am; and I can't sleep when he's away." How could I resist such entreaties? But for my criminal forgetfulness she would never, perhaps, have been the husband of this man. I thought of what I had heard and seen, on that stormy winter night, and reflected that, if Georgiana was to ex- perience similar horrors when alone, it might be as much as her life was worth; nay, as that of another also: for she expected, some time in the summer, to be a mother. I threw my arms around her, kissed her, and told her I would go, in spite of Madame. "Thank -you, thank you," she said, as gratefully as a child. "You don't know how weak and nervous I am. If it wasn't for -this other life that depends on mine, I'd be willing to die to-night. I believe I shall die as soon as it's over. You'll come to me, then, in my trouble," she said, looking pleadingly up to my face: " promise me that." I made the promise. "I used to think life was so happy," she said, after awhile, bursting into tears, "but now, now-"   216    THE OLD STONE MANSION. I held her there, on my breast, and soothed, and soothed her, poor thing, till she sobbed herself into quiet. As we drove up to the old mansion, the last night I had spent there, with all its mysterious occurrences, rose up so vividly before me, that my flesh fairly crept. Indeed, even without those reminiscences, the house had a ghostly look, that made the heart sink and the blood run cold. It rose up white and weird in the gloom, half seen behind the sepulchral pines, like some awful enchanter. The moon was up, but at this moment clouds obscured it, and the dark- ness was pall-like. As the boughs of the trees tossed, indistinctly, in the spectral evening, they seemed to me like gigantic mourners, who wailed and cried the coronach over the lost house of Lyttle- ton. I almost expected to see the door fly open, and sheeted figures flash forth into the night. I shud- dered and shrank back into the carriage, momently regretting that I had come out. The carriage stopped, but still there were no signs of life about the house. As I stepped out, however, the moon broke forth, and the front windows, sud- denly silvered with her light, looked like the greedy eyes of some horrid dragon, in a fevered dream. Georgiana clung to my arm, frightened and trem- bling. But I was now all myself. I pressed her   THE OLD STONE, MANSION. -    217 hand to my heart to reassure her, and began knock- ing at the door and calling for old Jane. "Don't let the man drive off till she comes," whispered Georgiana, affrightedly, hanging close to me. "Perhaps there's nobody here." At this moment, to relieve her fears, old Jane was heard unlocking the door. At sight of her face, my cousin seemed reassured. But when I saw the lurid light of the candle,. lurid in contrast with the moon- beams, shining on her brown, withered, skinny face, I thought that, with such a witch-like creature for door-keeper, the place looked more ghostly than' ever. We said but little that evening, and retired early to bed. Before putting out the light in our cham- ber, for I shared Georgiana's couch, I went to the window to look forth. Great masses of black fune- ral-like clouds were driving across the firmament. The moon, now hidden, now revealed, struggled along through these, like a ship fighting its way, as it were, through the ocean of death. But the wind--I have never, in all my life, heard it have a voice so human. It seemed to wail out the woes of all the generations that had ever lived, or that ever should live; the groans of men dying on the battle. field; the shrieks of victims on the rack; the moan of the traveler perishing of thirst and hunger in the   218    THE OLD STONE MANSION. desert; the sobs of lost children on lonely moun- tains. It would die away almost into silence, like the plaint of an exhausted sufferer; then burst forth again with a scream of agony, as if under the sur- geon's knife; then plead, and bewail, and sob, and at last subside again into inarticulate mo'anings. Again, it burst forth like the unearthly laughter of fiends, as if rejoicing about the house, and trying to find entrance into the mysterious room, the scene of the parricide. My excited imagination heard these, and other sounds, till I shrunk back from the window, and crept awe-struck to bed. There I remained for nearly an hour before I fell asleep. Georgiana, who nestled to me immediately, had prattled awhile, and then sunk into slumber. But I was kept wakeful by my thoughts. The wild winds, careering about the old mansion, seemed to me, in a thousand tones, to foretell something awful. For myself, I could face any thing; but I trembled for Georgiana. What I had witnessed, on that fearful winter night a few months ago, would, I felt, drive her insane. At last, completely exhausted, I dropped off into a feverish sleep. I was woke, after some hours, by a voice calling my name. For a moment I was confused, as persons are on being suddenly aroused. I thought myself in my room at my boarding-house, and I atarted J y            StI WU   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     219 up in bed, to look around, though it was pitch dark. But immediately I felt- myself pulled down, and recognized the voice of Georgiana, as she clung to 'me, trembling violently. "Maggy," she said, in a fearful whisper: then, "Oh! you're awake at last." \! What is it, dear?"I said, reassuring her by an, embrace. "Don't, don't speak so loud," she gasped. "There, didn't you hear it?" ;i '  .      ; My flesh began to creep, not at any thing I had heard as yet, but from the infectious terrors of my companioin. But I answered cheerfully, though my' voice unconsciously fell to a whisper. -"I hear nothing, except the wind. You have woke up, frightened, from a dream." "No, it is not a dream," she said, in a tone so low that I could hardly hear her, and she clung closer to me. "There, there again." I listened, raising my head from the pillow; yet the cold chills ran over me, for I felt, in the dark- ness, as if awful shapes might be at my bed-side. At first I could distinguish nothing but the wind tossing the pines, or lamenting around the chimneys. But, when the gale lulled for a moment, I heard, plain and distinct, the same mysterious sounds I had heard in the winter: a scuffle, a groan, a shriek,   220    THE OLD STONE MANSION. diabolical laughter, and all apparently down stairs. Georgiana burying her head under the clothes, clutched me convulsively in her arms. My first impulse was to fling the counterpane off, and go boldly down to solve this mystery. It seemed to me as if powers supernatural had chal. lenged me, a second time, to a meeting, and were mocking me for having shrank on the first trial. I do not know what it was, whether courage or a tem- porary insanity, but a something within me impelled me to get up and meet the most these evil spirits could inflict. They shall not exult over me, I said, mentally; they shall not dare me thus. With this instinct beating high in my blood, I made a move- ment to arise. But Georgiana, on perceiving it, held me fast, with a strength trebled by her terrors. "Don't, don't," she gasped, rather than whispered. "I shall die if you leave me." This recalled me to myself. My momentary ex- altation passed away. I not only felt that to leave her was impossible, but-strange effect of nervous sympathy-a portion of her own fear infected me. I knew I was trembling, though I tried my best to prevent it. Meantime, I could hear Georgiana's teeth chattering; and she clung to me like one drowning.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     221 -"It is nothing," I said, commanding my voice by a great effort, and speaking calmly, affecting what I did not feel. "The night is windy, that is all." For a moment, my companion, as if. reassured, half removed the bed-clothes from her face, and- lis- tened. But she had scarcely done this, when there was Ia repetition of the unearthly sounds; and this time they were more unmistakable, if possible, than before. With a stifled shriek she buried herself again under the counterpane. It was still intensely dark. But my eyes had be- come accustomed to the gloom, and I could see, dimly, various articles about the room, but they were vague and weird-like, as if spectral shapes might emerge from them at any moment. The win- dows, especially, had a ghostly look, as the branches of the trees swayed fantastically in front of them. Suddenly a burst of light shot into the chamber, and I started, my lips parting in terror, and a cry half breaking from them. But, an instant after, I saw that it was the moon, which was emerging from a cloud, and now shone directly down upon us. My start infected my companion, who, though hidden from sight, clasped me tighter, and began to tremble more violently than ever. But the moonlight did not continue long. I was just about to speak, when it vanished as sud-   222    THE OLD STONE MANSION. denly as it had appeared, leaving the darkness more palpable than ever. The furniture changed its out- lines, and was then lost in shapeless shadows. Soon these shadows, as I looked at them, began to assume vague forms: they dilated: they seemed about to stand forth. A crack, which afterward I tried to persuade myself came from the furniture, startled me with its suddenness. This was followed by what seemed a sigh in the hall, that came nearer and nearer, and paused at last at the door. I listened, in horror unspeakable, looking at the entrance, to see if it was only the wind, as I said to myself, or some disembodied Lyttleton, come back to haunt the scene of his misdeeds, as my creeping flesh told me. I thought I beheld the door opening, and I lay para- lyzed and dumb, watching it with eyes that I felt were starting from their sockets. But it did not open, and after assuring myself of this, with a long, fascinated gaze, I drew a deep breath of relief. I am sure that, if this state of things had con- tinued, my reason would have given way before morning. Had Georgiana not clung to me, and had it not been impossible to let her guess my fears, I should have risen and gone down stairs; for this suspense, this horrible uncertainty, was more terrible to me than would have been supernatural presences themselves. However, the moon now broke forth   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     223 again, and I heard no more of the mysterious sounds. Gradually my spirits recovered from the infection of Georgiana's terrors, and though. I could not en- tirely shake off a certain awe, I no longer trembled. "Look out, dear," I said, gently trying to remove the bed-clothes from her face. "There's nothing to be frightened at. The wind blows so about this old house, that one has but to fancy a thing, and one is sure to hear it. It's a bright moonlight now, and the gale, I think, is going down." She had, at first, resisted any attempt to uncover her face; but as I proceeded, her courage appeared to return, and she now glanced timidly around. The room was nearly as light as day. The bright, cheer- ful moonlight restored her spirits. "You don't think it was any thing?" she said, after a moment, but still speaking in a whisper. "I was never so frightened in my life. When I felt you start and tremble, I thought I should have died." "I was very foolish. But I have been terribly nervous lately, as I told you.". "Oh I how kind you were to come," and she em- braced me again. "If I hadn't had you here, I should have frightened myself to death. I was woke up, you know, by such a horrible noise. I tried to call you, but at first I couldn't speak. This fright- ened me more than ever. I shook you, and at last   224    THE OLD STONE MANSION. got out your name. It seemed to me as if you never * would wake up." "And you scared me," I said, laughingly, "by your voice and your trembling. I was only half awake, for a long time, and acted like a child." "When I was down there, under the covers, I thought my heart would burst; I could hear it beat- ing away, like a great force-pump; I believe I hardly breathed for awhile." "Well, go to sleeep again, now," I said, laying her head on my bosom, " or you'll be getting a head- ache to-morrow. I'll insure you that nothing shall happen to you." She reached up, and kissed me affectionately, and as I pertinaciously refused to talk any more about it, was soon slumbering again in perfect security. I watched her quiet, regular breathing, that was in- terrupted only now and then by a start, the subsid- ing, as it were, of the late mental storm, till the clock down stairs struck one. "It is well she is so easily assured," I said to my- self. "Poor thing!" The violence of the gale was now perceptibly de- clining. The wind no longer raved about the house as it had earlier in the night. All was still down stairs. Once or twice, indeed, my heart stopped beating, for an instant, as I thought I heard again   THE OLD STONE MAINSION.    225 the mysterious noises of the closed library; but on listening, I found that my imagination had deceived me. After remaining awake for an hour, and be- coming convinced that the strange sounds, whatever they were, were over for the night, I resigned my- self to sleep, thankful that I had accepted Georgi- ana's invitation, and so, perhaps, saved her from mortal terror. "God grant I may never spend such another night "I said to myself, on awaking; and I shud- dered at the recollection of it. But a something within me told me, as I descended the stairs, that my connection with the old stone mansion was not'yet over. I had a presentiment, as I glanced at the closed doors of the library, that I should live to witness what was even more fearful, in connection with that mysterious room. CPAPTER   XXTT. THE MARRIAGE. I SAT, the next morning, thinking over the occur- rences of the night, and revolving Georgiana's fail- "   226    THE OLD STONE MANSION. ing health. She was evidently unhappy with her husband. She had too much pride to confess this, but her melancholy could not be explained in any other way. It is true the anger of her father preyed on her spirits. Several times, during the winter, she had written to him; but her letters were always returned unopened. Once she had summoned courage to seek an interview. I accompanied her, in a hack, to the door. She had chosen an hour when she knew Mr. Elliott would be at home. But her father sternly refused to see her; and when she would have forced her way in, the servant, acting no doubt according to instructions, shut the door in her face. Her look, as she turned to come down the steps, was that of hopeless anguish and despair. She staggered, as if she was about to faint, and would have fallen, I be- lieve, if I had not sprung from the carriage and sup- ported her to her seat. After this her melancholy increased-I could see this every time I visited her; and with her depres- sion of spirits, the instability and harshness of her husband went hand in hand. Up to this time, I suppose, he had nourished a hope that Mr. Elliott would forgive them; and this had been some restraint upon him. But .when he saw there was no chance of his wife's inheriting any portion of her father's   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      227 wealth, he vented on her all his disappointment and rage. No wonder her health gave way! It might have been thought, by those who knew Georgiana only as a willful girl, that she, at least, would never break her heart for love. But such would have taken a very superficial view of her character. Her failings had been, in a great degree, the result of her train- ing. It is rare that the only child of rich and selfish parents is not petted till it is spoiled. She was still selfish, and often taxed my forbearance severely. She felt, also, acutely the loss of the position to which she had been accustomed, and the want of the luxuries which her father's wealth had given her. But if her husband had really loved her, she might, in time, I believe, have learned to be con- tented. The conviction that she had sacrificed every thing to one who had married her only for her money, and who, now that she was penniless, maltreated her, was more than she could bear. She had not the strength of character to fight an adverse . battle of life. I have said nothing, in all this time, of the means by which the Despencers lived. In spite of my cou- sin's assertions that her husband never played, I could come to no other conclusion than that he sup- ported himself by gambling. Mr. Bentley resembled   228     THE OLD STONE MANSION. so much the keeper of a second-rate hell, such as I had heard them described, that I was confident he and Mr. Despencer were partners in some enterprise of that description. This explained the hold which he had on Georgiana's husband, which otherwise -.. was inexplicable. For the intimacy between the two men had relation, i; was plain, to transactions in which both were pecuniarily interested, as I saw money sometimes passing between them on my visits, account books produced,- and receipts ex- changed. I was the mpre sure that I was right, because the financial condition of Mr. Despencer appeared to fluctuate precisely as will a gambler's. Sometimes he would produce whole rolls of notes, crisp and fresh from the bank, out of which to give my cousin the funds necessary to discharge household bills. At other times, the bills would be allowed to accu- mulate for weeks, and any mention of money would make him angry. All this while; Georgiana remained under the de- lusion that her husband was an English gentleman of condition, whose purse was full, or empty, accord- ing as his remittances from home were punctual, or otherwise. I could less afford than ever to tell her the truth. It would have taken from her the only thing that was left to cheer her spirits.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     229 "Though I will be dead and gone," she would say, for she persisted in declaring she would not live, " my poor infant may yet be rich and happy. I hope it will be a boy, for then he can inherit the title, if it falls in, as Arthur says it is almost sure to do. A daughter might be no happier than her mother." This was the nearest approach she ever made, in words, to betraying her husband's cruelty. She seemed to see, the moment she had spoken, what she- had done, for she became confused and hastily turned the conversation. I-was thinking of these things, I say, and the tears were falling fast over my sewing, as I recollected my own involuntary share in bringing my cousin to her present condition, when the parlor door opened, and Mr. Bentley entered. My instinct told me immedi- ately that his visit had relation to myself. Georgi- ana, I knew, would not have betrayed me: it must, therefore, have been her husband who had informed him that I would probably be at the old mansion. I had not seen him for many weeks. He had, at first, called frequently at my boarding-house; but I had discouraged his visits, and finally -denied my- self to him. I would have given any thing, not to have been detected in tears; but I had looked up, on hearing a footstep, and he had seen my emotion.   230    THE OLD STONE MANSION. He came directly up to me, as if he felt that this womanly weakness gave him an advantage over me. "What I crying," he said. I made no answer. I did not even look up, but went on with my sewing. No further tears fell, how- ever; I was too proud for that. In a moment I rose to leave the room. I had not done this, at once, because I did not wish to seem to fear my visitor. As I rose, I said, with affected un- concern, that I believed Mrs. Despencer was up stairs, but that I would call her. But Mr. Bentley, by a quick movement, threw himself between me and the door. "Stay," he said, " it is you I wish to see." I drew myself up haughtily. "There is nothing about which Mr. Bentley can wish to see me," I said, as I waived my hand for him to make way. He bit his lip, with suppressed anger. I could see the veins in his forehead swelling. But he an- swered, after a moment, composedly, "Will you never allow me to be your friend?" My only reply was a scornful curl of the lip. As he still kept his place by the door, and I could not consent to have any further altercation with him, I went and sat- down on a chair, at the further end of the room.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      1 "I see my errand is useless," he said, after regard- ing me, for a while, silently. "You are prejudiced against me. But Hmean you well, Miss Gray; and would givemy life; for you if you would let me. You are not happy. How can you be, bred up as you, have been, yet compelled to earn your living in the way you do?" I was burning with indignation. Sooner than ac- cept a livelihood at his hands, sooner than become the wife of one so loathsome to me, I would dig like a common laborer. I longed to tell him this. But my sense of personal dignity restrained me. I could stoop to no altercation with this man. His eye began to kindle, and his cheek to glow, when he saw my silence, for he had paused to give me an opportunity to answer. I thought I heard a muttered oath. But, if so, he soon restrained him- self again, and resumed: "I came out here, to-day, to offer you my heart and handc, I have called, frequently, at your board- ing-house in town, but lately could never find you at home." It was now necessary for me to speak. He had made me a distinct offer: and even he was entitled to a reply. I was determined it should be decisive. I do not know what I said. My manner was, per- haps, even more scornful than my words, for the   232    THE OLD STONE MANSION. color rushed over his face as I spoke, and he looked, for an instant, as if he would have liked to annihi- late me. But hedrecovered the mastery of his fea- tures immediately. "You are severe," he said, affecting to be calm. "Perhaps,"--and there was a malicious, snake-like gleam in his eye,-" you still hope that Mr. Talbot will return to you." He paused, evidently to watch the. effect of his words. I felt the blood shoot to my temples. I was angry, the instant after, to think I had betrayed my- self; that anger was heightened, to see the exulta- tion that sparkled in his look, as he went on. "Because, if that is your notion," he continued- and he now dropped the elaborate politeness which, up to this point, he had observed-" you are laboring under a great delusion. Mr. Talbot was married on Thursday." It went through me like a knife, I had, in a manner, expected it indeed: and yet I had not ex- pected it either. While there is life, there is hope; and there lurked, in my inmost heart, as I now re. alized, a vague belief that something would yet happen to restore Mr. Talbot to me. I felt my very soul sinking out of me, so utter, utter was my misery and despair. Fortunately for me I was, all this time, conscious of the eye that was on me. Mr. Bentley,   THE OLD STONE MANSION*.    233 could he have known my agony, would have been revenged, for any superciliousness in my manner. But I was determined he should not see it. I had betrayed myself once: I would not betray my- self again. I took up my needle and held it to the light; I think nobody but a woman could have done as I did; and deliberately began to thread it, saying, unconsciously, "Ah! you don't say so." If I am not mistaken, he muttered, not a farewell, but an oath, as he seized his hat and left the house. I watched till I saw he was out of sight, when I threw myself on the sofa and gave way to an agony of tears. Presently I bethought me to look at the news- paper. I sprang up with a sudden hope, for I knew Mr. Bentley would, stop at no falsehood to gain his end. The marriage, if it had really taken place, would probably be published. With trembling fingers I unfolded the journal and sought the column where marriage notices were inserted. As I hur- riedly glanced down it, my spirits rose, but only to be dashed forever, by an announcement near the bottom.     : "On the 10th, by the Rev. Dr. Downs, at Christ Church, Henry Talbot, of---, to Miss Julia Bev-   234    THE OLD STONE MANSION. erley, only daughter of Charles Beverley, Esq., of the city." The paper fell from my grasp. I staggered to my seat again. The room seemed suddenly to darken. I gasped for breath. Oh I how sweet oblivion would be, or how sweet we think it would be, in those great crises of agony, which are the fruit life bears for the unhappy. I escaped up stairs as soon as I could, and there, till dinner was nearly ready to be served, fought, despairingly, the grim Apollyon in my heart. But I conquered at last; or, at least, -I believed I did. Toward evening I returned to the city. I parted with Georgiana, outwardly calm. Mr. Despencer had returned, and the carriage which brought him out took me back. CHAPTER   XXIII. ROSAIUE AGAIN. I DID not doubt that Mr. Bentley would have his revenge; but how, or when, I could not tell. He was one of the few who knew my real name, and I   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      235 expected, therefore, that he would betray me; at least I could think of no other possible means he had to retaliate. I began now to realize how the slightest departure from truth, like any other viola- tion of the moral law, is sure, sooner or later, to bring its own punishment. It is strange what dupes we make of ourselves in regard to wrong-doing. Sin, to use thetheological term, is but another name for the violation of some divine ordinance. If we break a physical law, we not only suffer for it in the flesh, but we expect beforehand to suffer for it. When a man jumps from a high tower, he does it conscious that he will be dashed to pieces. Ought we to be surprised, therefore, at the penalty, which follows the breach of a moral law? Ought we, as too often in our agony we do, arraign the Almighty for what is but the consequences of our own acts? If my troubles and disappointments taught me noth- ing else, they were teaching me, day by day, that my own pride, my own other faults, were the causes of my present sufferings. I had broken God's law, and daily now I recalled the text, God's text, 'Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord, I will repay." Every morning, when I left my boarding-house, I expected, on my return, to fielnd that my change of name was discovered. I had learned, that when a woman adopts a false name, it is regarded, by the   236    THE OLD STONE MANSION. world at large, as presumptive evidence against her. I knew, therefore, that I should be turned out of doors-for of all persons, cheap boarding-house landladies are the most cruel under such circum- stances; and, perhaps, necessarily so, for the good repute of their establishments is every thing to them. Every evening, when I left Madame's, I feared that in the morning, I should be met at the door by an indignant dismissal, amid the jeers of my fellow- workwomen. Sometimes my imagination got such a mastery of me, that, if it had not been for Georgi- ana, I should have thrown up my situation, left the city, and sought employment elsewhere. But her hour of extremity was approaching, and I could not desert her. The delay of my enemy in exposing me, I could only account for on the supposition that he knew suspense was the worst possible torture for me. His tiger-like nature played with the victim of whom he was sure. I knew that the blow, how- ever long suspended, would come at last. The-spring had now advanced. The trees were all in leaf; the birds had come back; the air was full of the perfume of flowers. When sent out on errands, my way frequently lay through a public square, the walk through which was the happiest hour of the day. Occasionally, if not hurried, I would sit down, for a few moments, to rest, to im-   TIFiE OLD STONE -MANSION.   237 bibe the fragrant air, to watch happy children at play. One morning, when thus occupied, who should I see but Rosalie. I had never met her since I had left my uncle's house. Of my uncle and aunt I had seen nothing, and heard very little. I knew they were living in the same fashionable style as usual, giving dinners and going to parties, ignoring their elder daughter as totally as if she had never lived. I had heard that my uncle had been more successful in his spec- ulations than ever. He, and a few others, it was said, had just effected a monopoly in sugar, by which they would quadruple their fortunes. Frequently, on Sunday evenings, I had loitered by the house, hoping to catch a glimpse of Rosalie at the windows; but in vain. I could not restrain a cry of joy at now meeting her so unexpectedly.  Hearing her name called, she looked around, and recognizing me, in spite of my altered dress, ran up to mi jumped upon my lap, threw her arms around my neck, and kissed me a score of times, calling me her "Dear, dear Maggy," with that infantine lisp, which had always been such music to me. She began to chatter away immediately, asking a thousand questions, and often not waiting for an answer, "Why had I    such a common dress on?" "Where did I  live?" "Had I seen sister Georgy?"   288    THE OLD STONE MANSION. "Was there any other little Rosalie where I lived?" "Did I love her as much as ever?" "Wouldn't I come back some day?" "Why didn't I come back now?"  "Why had I gone away?"This last ques- tion she repeated, again and again. Once or twice she flew off from it, to tell me about her Christmas presents, and especially about a baby-house big enough for her to sit down in, and a doll as large as herself; but she invariably returned to this question, and with such -pertinacity, that I was compelled to make some answer. "Has your mother," I said, "never told you why I left?" No, her mamma had never told her, but only said that "Aunt Maggy had been naughty ;" and then she innocently asked, looking earnestly up into my face, "Have you been naughty?" The tears gathered into my eyes. What could I reply? In the sense in which my aunt meant I was innocent; but how was it in other senses? Yet this I could not explain to the limited intelligence of a child. "Don't cry, Maggy," said the little dear, throwing her plump arms around my neck again and kissing me, "I don't believe you have been naughty." "Does your mother ever talk of sister Georgiana?" I said, after awhile.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     239 "She says I must never speak to sister Georgy." "But what does your father say?" "He told me he'd whip me if I ever spoke of her again. Wouldn't that be dreadful? He's never whipped me, you know. I was asking him if she'd soon come back. But I don't think pa would whip his little girl-do you?" "I have seen your sister lately. She is well. She often talks of you all. I hope she'll go back and live with you some day." "I'd rather you'd come back." "You musn't say that. Georgiana is your own sister." "But you were always -good to me, and sister wasn't. No, I'd rather you'd come back." And she pouted, with pretty obstinacy, as she said this. At this moment, I heard a quick step, and looking up, recognized& osalie's nurse approaching. The flushed cheek and angry eye showed what her pur- pose was.  She had been gossiping with some of the other nurses, leaving Rosalie to take care of her- self, and now, discovering the consequences of her error, was in a rage, as people of her character will be under similar circumstances. She rushed up to me) and snatching Rosalie from my lap, shook the child till my blood boiled, and I moved as if to interfere. But, at this, she flung her   240    THE OLD STONE MANSION. charge behind her, and stood confronting me like a virago. "Touch her if yees dare," she said, restraining Rosalie with one hand, while she shook the other, clenched, at me. "Touch her, and I'll call the per- lice. I wonder at your imperence. You ought to be ashamed of yourself." Astonishment made me dumb for a moment. During my residence at my uncle's, this creature had been fawning and servile to the last degree. After my engagement to Mr. Talbot, she had, more than once, begged me to take her into my employment, when I went to house-keeping. In the kitchen, she was always sounding my praise. I had believed, in my ignorance of such characters, that, if anybody would be faithful to me in adversity, it would be Judith. I will not deny that something of disap- pointment and pain mingled with my astonishment. I looked at her full in the face. Her eyes, which met mine defiantly at first, gradually sank, and she muttered something, half ashamed, about "her orders being positive not to let Rosy speak to me." "Then you should be careful," I said severely, "not to let her leave your side. You need not punish the child," I added, seeing that shb9id Ro- salie's arm so tightly, that the latter was in pain, "for your own fault. I will not take her again. Let her go."   THE OLD STOlE 'IANSiON.    241 But the moment the child was freed, she rushed to me, and would have sprung into my arms if I had not repelled her gently. Sheremained, however, clinging to my dress, and looking back at her nurse defiantly. The latter, was beginning to speak again, when I checked her by an imperative gesture. "Leave me to manage her, Jlldith"I said. "Now, that I know that her parents have forbidden her speaking to me, I am the last one tQcountenance her in the act. Rosy, dear," I said, stooping and kiss- ing her, and then pushing her toward her nurse, "you must go with Judith; indeed you must." She still hung back. "Judy is naughty, Judy is cross." "You must go to Judith," I repeated, severely. "Good-by, darling," and the tears rushed into my eyes as I spoke. "God grant we may meet in better She had moved a step toward her nurse, but when she saw my tears, she dashed back, clung pas- sionately to my neck, and cried as if her heart would break. I waited for a moment, and then tenderly disengaging myself from her embrace, handed her over to her nurse, drew my vail over my eyes, and hurried away, not daring-even to look back. I was cut to the heart by what the nurse had said. "To think," I said to myself, as I walked rapidly on, 15 -.^   TIlE OLD STONE MANSION. that they will set even Rosalie against me, an that, in time, she also will learn to hate me." For, all through my sorrows, I had cherished the conso- all through my so"rows   one, little heart woula lation that, come what might, one lttle heart ould love me in spite of every thing. The ingratitude of Judith I hardly thought about, after the first shock of the discovery. What coula be expected, I said, of people of her culture? e look for every Christian virtue from servants, for- getting thatt o sof them have had no education whatever. We are disappointed if they are not miracles of thrift and patience, when they get no holidays and only a dollar and a half a week. Let us do justice to them when faithful, but think cha- ritabyV of their ingratitude. The fat, oarse person of Judith was but a type of her character, as she, I fear, was only a type of her class. The next day I received a note from Georgiana. She said in it, that she had been anxious, for some time, that I should make some purchases for her; but that her husband's remittances had disappointed him. Lately, however, some had arrived, and she sow enclosed the money. A roll of bank-bills, crisp and fresh, just drawn from the bank, acompanied the note.  "Buy things that arere pretty as well as good," he wrote, in a postscript, for Arthur tells mehi allow-   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     243 anrice is to be doubled, and he's been quite generous, as you'll see when you count the bills." I begged the following day of Madame, for there were many'things to buy. In the afternoon, quite fagged out, I took a carriage and drove to the old stone mansion. -But I was fully compensated for my fatigue, by the extravagant, almost childish pleasure, which my purchases gave Georgiana. She held up the little, delicate lace caps, blushing, and seemed happier than she had been for months. It was a beautiful evening, and so warm, that we sat with the windows up. Georgiana was gayer than she had been all winter. The soft, south wind, scented with far-off flowers, and the silver moonlight, which fell around us like a mantle of peace, assisted, doubtless, to work this change. Her husband seemed also to feel the influence of the hour. I thought what Georgiana had said, about his circumstances improving, was perhaps true; for he was less irri- table and harsh than I had seen him for a long time. As I looked at his wife leaning her head fondly on his shoulder, a caress which he did not rudely reject, as he would have done before, I said to myself, that better days, perhaps, were in store for my- cousin. Several times, during the afternoon, I was on -the point of telling Georgiana of my interview with Rosalie; but I knew it would dash her spirits, and   24-4    THE OLD STONE MANSION. she was so rarely happy now, that I shrank from it. She and her husband followed me to the gate, and when I turned the angle of the wood, about two hundred yards distant, I saw her still leaning on his arm, and waving her handkerchief. Behind them rose the old, dilapidated mansion, white and ghostly, dilated in the moonlight to nearly twice its size: the gloomy pines keeping watch in front, like weird sentinels, guarding the awful secrets of the dead. CHAPTER   XXTV. THE SUMMER. Tun summer proved to be one of the hottest that had been known for years. Everybody, who could, fled to the country. The city authorities began to fear an epidemic. The yellow fever, that scourge of the South, had been, for several seasons, ad- vancing northward; it had, only a twelvemonth before, almost depopulated a thriving town, that had long been considered beyond its reach; and eminent physicians had given it as their opinion, that in its progress to colder zones, it would probably, this year, reach the great metropolis where I lived.   THE OLD STONE MANSION  245 Sickness and death, in otherforms, daily increased alley wayere to Madame's lay past oe of those narrow alleys, where the very poorest classes are forced to herd. As the sulmer approached, I noticed a fetid sell, which increased day by day, and which seemed to steaup out of the foul gutters of this close thoroughfare, and the almost as foul rooms inside. Next, I obseed that .he  n "T rooms inside. Next, I observed that the children, who used to play in hives on its narrow broken avement, had dimin- is-led suddenly i, nubers:?    had dimin- ised suddenly in nubers then I heard their wail- ing cry in sickness, through the open windows; and then, every afternoon there was a funeral, and sorne- times two. Never before had I realized the condi. tion of the poor, during the hot, summer months, in our pent-up cities. The bills of mortality, which show such a frightful increase at these periods, find their principal food, I now discovered, among the chil- dren of the destitute. Thousands d ie in those noisome alleys, who, if born to wealth, or even ordinary com- fort, would have lived to b e m en a om en . T he ric h can flee, with their little ones, to the breez y uplandsich can medicine the diseased with the  invior atin g s ea- breeze, but the poor must stay at home in their fever-haunted dwellin gs, and   e t heir dalings die inc h by inch  , withou t a hope for their recovery . l'here are those who call th is the o rdinance of G od. Bl    asphemous accusation, Raathr let Us lay the crime   246    THE OLD STONE MANSION. at the doors of a defective social organization, of the selfishness of men, and of the decline of true Chris- tianity and philanthropy in our midst. It was not so, in those primitive days of our faith, when the command, "Little children, love one another," was still reverenced and obeyed. It will not be, in that coming time in which even the mere optimist be- lieves, when progress shall have regenerated the world, when the irregularities of rank and fortune shall have been smoothed down, when every man shall recognize that all are of one common blood, and when, in the symbolic language of Scripture,- the,lion shall lie down with the lamb, and injus- tice and oppression be no more. I began myself to give way under the unaccus- tomed labor and impure air to-which I was now subjected. In my uncle's house, even when left - alone in summer, I had large rooms, a delicate table, baths, comparatively fresh air, in short every thing that could alleviate my loneliness. But even there I had-pined for the woods and fields to which I had been accustomed when a child. My boarding-house now was in a confined street, and was shut in by surrounding buildings. From my chamber window, in the rear, I looked up, through..a well of dirty walls, to the merest possible patch of blue sky. The air that eddied sluggishy down this shaft and   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     247 into my window, was heavy with the effluvia of de- caying vegetation, and the other refuse of the neigh- borhood. I rose, unrefreshed, in the morning, to lie down still more unrefreshed at night. It was weary, weary work with the needle. My headaches were constant. My spirits sank lower than ever. I dragged myself to Madame's-I dragged myself home. I understood now why needlewomen-die so fast. Between the storms of winter and the heats of summer, no wonder they fall victims to consump. tion. Ah! rich and cherished wife or daughter, rolling in your carriage along the beach at Newport, how often do you think of your less fortunate sister, who is toiling in a pestiferous room, in the great city from which you came, on the garments in which you expect to dazzle all eyes at the approaching ball. A noble house had for its crest, in the old knightly times, a pelican feeding her young with drops of blood from her breast. Your gay attire, that flashes so white and pure to common eyes, was made out of the blood of your sisters, and is red with it, to my eyes.. We were unusually busy at Madame's. A great Juban millionaire, yellow as his own gold, was about o marry a fair, blonde beauty of our city: and orders- iad come to Madarne to supply the wedding outfit. "here was no relaxation, therefore, in our labors.   248    THE OLD STONE MANSION. Several of my companions had given up, really sick; and though others had been engaged to supply their places, these last were unskilled and could not -be relied on except for ordinary work. My services were therefore more in demand than ever. This was the state of affairs, when, one morning, a mes- senger came from Georgiana, urgently beseeching me to come at once to her. "I have not forgot your solemn promise, Maggy," she wrote, in a hurried, shaking chirography. "I have no other friend; I do not believe I shall live; if you ever loved me, be with me now." I was already at Madame's, and I went at once to her; She was reclining in a loose undress, in a little boudoir that opened to the west, lingering at her late breakfast. A coffee-cup of a delicate Sevres pattern stood on a little table by her sofa, and beside it was a plate of toast, and an egg. She was sipping her coffee, and fanning herself while she read the last new sensation novel. At my entrance, she looked languidly up. "Dear me," she said, "I hope you haven't come to bother me any more about those wedding things. It is really too hot to think." L "I have come, on the contrary," I replied, " to say that I must leave you, at least for awhile. I am sorry the notice is so short, but a near and dear friend has been taken suddenly ill."   THE OLD,STONE MANSION.     249 Madame had put down her coffee-cup, staring at me in dumb astonishment. Now she said, "Has your sister no one else?" It is not my sister," I answered. "I've no sister."  "Then I shall not allow you to go," she said, posi- tively; and as if the question was settled finally, she took up her novel again. "But I must go," I replied, firmly. "Must, Miss Berkley?" "Yes I Madame."  Her cheeks and eyes blazed with anger. "You seem  to forget who you  are speaking "I do not, Madame. But it is a case of ur- gency."  "Do you know how much   are hurried?" she said, pettishy.  "Do you know, that if you leave, I shall have to go to work myself?  Perhaps," she added, as a sudden suspicion seemed to flash- upon her, "you want your wages raised, and this is a trick to effect it. Is that so ?" I read in her cunning, revengeful eye, that if this had been my purpose, she would have acceded to it in order to g et me to stay for the present, but with the  secret resolution to discharge me as soon as she could supply my place.   250    THE OLD STONE MANSION. l' No I it is not so. You do not know me, Madame, if you think I could stoop to such a trick." I said this calmly and courteously, determined to maintain my self-respect, no matter how aggravating the in- terview might be. Now that she saw I was certainly going, she gave free vent to her selfish anger. "I know you for an ungrateful thing, as you all are," she said. "We take you in, when you are starving, and then, when it suits your convenience, you leave us, at a minute's notice. There never was any one so ill-used as I am." "I give you my word, Madame, that I have always been sensible of your kindness, and that I will come back the very moment I can." "Come back! Come back!" she cried, purple with rage. "I should like to see you come back. No, there shall be no coming back. Get out of my sight, this instant, and never let me see you again. I would not give you work," and she flashed at me a look of concentrated rage, " if you were starving to death: literally starving to death, I say." "As you please, Madame. But, in that case, as we shall not meet again, I should like to be paid off." She had turned to her book again. She now glared up at me, suddenly. Then a sardonic smile,   TEE OLD STONE MANSION'.    231 a smile of irony and conscious power, began to wreathe her thin lips. I saw that she was about to re- fuse paying me. I had heard that, when persons left her as I was doing, she acted in this way, tell- in them they were employed by the month, and had forfeited their wages by not giving her warning. My heart sank, for I believed that she had the law on her side. What she owed me was little enough, but it was all I had. I determined, however, not to abandon it without a struggle. "You must understand that I cannot wait," I said; and I added meaningly, "it would not look well to have it said, in the newspapers, that you refused to pay your workwomen." "Do you dare to threaten me?" "I dare to do more, Idar to act," I said boldly. "Paid I will be, and at once, or I will lay my case before the public." She turned white with rage and almost ground her teeth. But her eye gradually quailed before mine. Whatever I might have done if she had continued to decline, I do not know ; but I felt, at that moment, as if I would certainly expose her cost what it might to my own personal feelin gs. and I have no doubt I looked as I felt. After the lapse of a few minutes, perhaps, she rose, and going to an escritoir, drew forth a receipt-book,   252    THE OLD STONE MANSION. then counted out the money she owed, and pushed the amount to me, saying, "You will sign a receipt in full." With these words she withdrew again to the sofa, and sipped her coffee, till she saw I had finished writing the receipt, when she carefully examined it, put away the book, shutting the door of the escri- toir with a bang, and not even turning around to acknowledge my courtesy, and my studiously polite, , Good-morning." "This," I said to myself, as I hurried to my boarding-house, in order to pack up a few things, "this is the justice awarded to the poor and defense- less. My own sex are as cruel to woman as man is. The fine lady sneers at her less fortunate sister, who has to labor for a livelihood, as one beneath her; and even those who have had to struggle for them- selves areinsolent and grasping, the moment they get the power." And then I remembered how I had once thought that it was man's selfish legislation to which woman owed all her wrongs, and how I had angrily told Mr. Talbot so, on a certain morning to which I had never recurred since without mortifica- tion and shame. Alas! experience since had taught me a different lesson. What I had seen of the Perts and D'Alencons, and now of ladame, had proved to me that it was the social code, less than   THE OLD STONSE XAsION. 2S. any legal one, which was in fault, and that the great oppressor of woman was her own sex. As I drove up to the old stone mansion, I re- membered my last visit to it, -and the gloomy fore- bodings which had possessed me when I left. Those forebodings returned now, more powerful than ever, as I looked at its dark, tomb-like pines, that stood silent and oppressed, as if with the weight of some mighty secret, or the awful shadow of some impend- ing disaster. The old shudder ran through me as I alighted. But I shook it off immediately, the more as no one was at the door to meet me, though the rumbling of my carriage must have been distinctly heard in the sultry noon-day stillness; and this as- sured me that Georgiana was seriously ill. That night a child was born into the world. Greatest of mysteriesl Greater even than death l for that only terminates our physical existence, while this adds a new soul to the ever-increasing army of immortals, that marches on, forever and forever, from the past to the future Eternity. For several days my cousin hung between life and death. But the presence of her child, and our un- remitting attentions, finally prevailed; and she was pronounced out of danger. In this struggle, the smiles of her infant were, perhaps, as efficacious as. medicine or nursing. For though the child was a daughter, and   254     THE OLD STONE MANSION. not a son, she seemed to have forgtten, in the bliss of her new relation, all her former wishes that the result might be different. I had been for three nights without sleep, never having left the bedside since my arrival. Georgiana herself now insisted that I should take some rest, and I finally consented, having arranged with the nurse to be called, if any change for the worse took place. CttAPTER XXV. THE THUNDER STORM. THE day had been excessively sultry, even for the season. Indeed, ever since I had come to the old mansion, the weather had been unusually close. All day, a haze half concealed the neighboring ridge of hills, while the distant horizon was entirely vailed; all night the moon shone down on this now palpable mist, as if on a silver sea. The sun rose red and angry, to traverse the heavens without a cloud, and to set lurid and ominous. The atmosphere was oppressive almost to choking. The leaves hung motionless. The birds were hushed. And at night   THEE OLD STONE MANSION.     255 the brassy moon glowed in a sky that seemed to pant for breath. I had been so occupied with Georgiana, however, that I had only realized this vaguely; but now, as I stood at the window before retiring, the peculiar, almost awful appearance of Nature, arrested my attention. Every thing seemed at its last gasp. The ancient pines before the house did not move a tassel, even on the topmost twig; but an audible sob, ne- vertheless, rose from out of their mighty hearts, occasionally, as of giants in their death agony. The whole landscape was full of portents. So forebod- ing was the aspect of every thing, that I gave vent, involuntarily, to my sensations in a whisper to the nurse, who had followed me to the window. "Did you ever see such a sky?"I said. "It looks like the eve of the Day of Judgment." "Lord's sake, miss," was the affrighted reply, "don't talk so. You skeer me." I  wag so worn out with fatigue, that my head had scarcely touched the pillow before I was alseep. I slumbered heavily, for several hours, and was only awoke at last by the drifting of rain across my face; for my bed was close to a window, which I had left open for air, and a thunder storm had come up while I   was asleep. At first I did not realize this. I  started up, and looked around bewildered,   256     THE OLD STONE MANSION. nor was it till a flash of distant lightning illuminated the room, that I recognized where I was. Then I sprang up to close the casement. Looking forth, I could discover nothing; for all alike without was one impalpable darkness. But I could hear the rain hiss- ing and dancing as it fell in huge, incessant drops; and the boughs of the pine trees moaning, shrieking, and wailing in the wind. I knew that the tempest was to be a fearful one, not less from this, than from the long disturbed electrical conditions which had preceded it. I sprang out, as I have said, to close the case- ment. But just as my hand was on the sash, a peal of thunder broke overhead, seeming to shake the house to its foundations, and went rattling down the sky, as if the pillars of the gigantic dome had been crushed, and the whole vast superstructure was tum- bling back into chaos. Instantaneously there was a dazzling flash, which, for one brief moment, revealed the landscape without, clothed in a ghastly radiance, like the spectral and blasted wastes seen in a dream of the lost; the tossing pines on the lawn, every needle a point of light; the swaying woods in the distance, sheeted with electricity; the sullen stream in the valley beneath, emitting a dull blaze; and the pall-like clouds above, rolling tumultuously over each other, glowing a lurid black: and then all was   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     257 darkness; and a darkness a thousand times more intense for that moment of vivid light. My first idea was that the house had been struck, for I found myself, simultaneously with all this, reel- ing backward against the bed, nor do I know to this day whether I was thrown there by -the shock, or whether I instinctively recoiled. The darkness was succeeded, almost immediately, by a wild, lurid glare, in which every thing, for a moment or two, spun around; the bed, the room, the gloomny land- scape without, nay, the heavens themselves. Then followed again the sound of the rain rushing down- ward, like unseen Alpine torrents, when night and tempest are on Mount Blanc. When I recovered, my first thought was of Geor- giana, whom I knew that the peal must have awakened, and who, from a child, had been afraid of thunder. So I hurried on my dress, as fast as I could, to go to her. My cousin's room, as I have said,/was next to mine, and on the same floor. But there was no communication between the two apartments, except through the-hall; and when I opened the door lead- ing into the latter, I was startled by seeing the pas- sage, which I had left in darkness an hour or two before, now almost- as light as day. At first I could not believe my eyes. I passed 16   258    THE OLD STONE TMANSION. my hand over them, and looked again. I now be- came aware that the light was brighter below than above. Suddenly it flashed upon me that the lights came from the library, out of whose long closed door it seemed to stream forth, in a gush of brilliant, almost unearthly effulgence. I forgot, instantly, my errand. The remembrance of that winter night, when I had heard the story of the parricide com- mitted in that room, and seen afterward this same mysterious light, rushed back upon me, with all its feelings of awe and terror. I staggered back into my chamber, my knees trembling, my heart beating violently. But I rallied almost immediately. I put my hand on the lock to reopen the door, and while one might have counted fifty, paused to listen. I heard no- thing, except the loud, tumultuous throbbing of my heart, and the steady pouring of the rain outside. Smiling at my momentary terror, I bpldly threw the door open and stepped forth. '?- But my footsteps were again arrestedfor a mo- ment; for loud and distinct there came to my ears the strange noises of that winter night: the shuffling of feet, the voices, the thud of a blow, the sound like a dying sob. My breath came quick and fast. I was irresolute for a second. Then my spirit was fully roused. I said to myself that, if I went back,   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     259 I should despise myself forever. Had I not long wished for an opportunity to unravel this mystery? And now that the opportunity had come, should I, coward-like, fear to avail myself of it? No! I would go forward, come what might. I would dare every thing. Under the influence of these reflections, the very danger, which, but a little while before, had palsied my limbs, now only stimulated me to proceed. Fortunately I had list slipppers on. For I had worn them in Georgiana's room ever since she had been sick, and when I retired, I had put them at my bedside, to be ready in case I should be sum- moned. They enabled me to glide down stairs noiselessly, and to reach the lower hall undetected. A step or two carried me to the library door. But there a sight presented itself, which arrested my - rapid pace, transfixing me breathless on the thresh- old. - #   CHAPTER   XXVI. THE LIBRARY. THE Library was a spacious apartment, with book-cases ranged along either side, and a stately, old-fashioned fire-place at the extreme end. The cases were built into the wall, and consequently had been left standing, when the room had been dis- mantled. They had open doors of latticed wire-work, which had originally been lined with green silk, but this was now tarnished by damp and time, and was in many places torn and rotten, revealing the empty shelves within. An antique glass chandelier, with crystal drops, depended from the ceiling in the middle of the room. The centre-piece of this ceil. ing was a wreath, on a blue ground, on which were gilded stars, after a fashion much in vogue sixty years ago. It was from this chandelier that the bril- liant light, which now  almost dazzled my eyes, seemed to proceed. Every pendent twinkled and scintillated, throwing out glittering prismatic hues as the current of wind, that poured in at the open (260)   THE OLD STONE MANSION.    .  261 door, stirred them with a ghostly sound like the rattling of skeleton bones. Directly under this chandelier, and in the full blaze of its light, was a strange machine unlike any thing I had ever- seen. My first idea, with my heated imagination, was that it was some hideous instrument of torture. But a second look suggested to me that it was a printing press of some descrip- tion, for on a small table at its side, was a pile of paper, cut into tiny sheets, and on another table near by was a similar pile, only printed upon. As I entered, a man in his shirt sleeves, whom I recog- nized for Despencer, was in the act of taking one of these sheets from 'the press, and transferring it to this second pile; while another man, also without his coat, and whom I saw was Bentley, had hold of the spokes by whichi the press was turned, as if he had only that instant taken an impression. As Despencer lifted the paper, and the light fell full upon it, I detected a sheet of bank notes, precisely similar to those I had disbursed for Georgiana only a few wgeks before. I paused, as I have said, in, dismay. For that one rapid glance had revealed to me, not only the origin of the mysterious noises and lights, but the secret of the connection between Despencer and Bentley. I saw why this dreary old mansion,   262    THE OLD STONE MANSION. which the country folk believed to be haunted, had been chosen for a residence by Georgiana's husband; for in this room, which no stranger would dare to approach, because of the tragedy which had been enacted there, he was secure from interruption at his felonious work. I thought, too, I comprehended the strange knock I had heard on that winter night. It must have been Bentley, I said to myself, who, not gaining admittance promptly, had gone around to some other entrance known only to himself; for the strange light and noises, which I had seen and heard afterward, had doubtless been caused by his being at work, and had ceased because he had heard me coming, and closed the door. The shuffling of feet, moving about to work the press; the rubbing in of the ink on the steel plate; voices, in conversa- tion, or of one talking to himself; these were pre- cisely such sounds as might be transmuted, by an active fancy, into the spectral ones of old Jane's narrative. I realized it all now. And I further saw that it was chiefly stormy nights that had been chosen for printing the notes, as on such nights the counterfeiters would be less likely to be de- tected. I  understood also why my presence in this old mansion had been courted by Despencer. I had been welcomed because I could be made a dupe,   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     263 and, in that capacity, employed as a tool to put in circulation the counterfeit notes. Either Despencer or Bentley would have been molre liable to suspicion than a woman. Georgiana, though a woman, would not, on more than one account, have been a success- ful agent. It flashed upon me, as I recalled all this, that I had fallen into the trap, and was criminal in the eyes of the law. Oh, at that moment, how the warning of Mr. Talbot came back to. mel It was the bitterest thought of the hour that he would hear of this. But whether he believed me guilty or not, my fair fame was equally tainted. In the eyes of the world, from this time out, I would be the con- federate of felong. It is said that, when a person is drowning, a thousand thoughts, ten thousand recollections, rush upon them, and that they live, so to speak, whole years in a moment of time. In that terrible hour, when I saw hope closing over me forever, without a plank to cling to, I also thought and felt this and other things, with a rapidity I could' not have be- lieved possible. I even speculated how far old Jane was a confederate with Despencer and Bentley, and whether the story of the parricide was an invention or otherwise: and I remember that I concluded, from the recollection of her manner when telling the tale, that the parricide had really happened;   264    THE OLD STONE MANSION. but that she had narrated the tragedy to me, doubt- less at the instigation of others, in order to check my curiosity regarding the long-closed room. Some mysterious bond, I supposed, connected her and Bentley, if not Despencer, together. What was it? Then I thought of Georgiana. Instead of being the bride of a nobleman, as, poor fool I she fancied still, she was a felon's wife. More than this, she was the mother of a felon's child. Oh was it to such degradation, I asked myself, that my thoughtlessness had brought her? I pictured, rapidly, her future. How, sooner or later, the ministers of justice would discover the counterfeit bills afloat, ferret out the counterfeiter, and consign him to the penitentiary. She would then be alone in the world, unless I stood her friend. That friend I resolved to be, till she died of the shame and horror of the discovery, which I knew would not be long. But her infant? It would survive, it would have no one to take care of it; and I determined to be a mother to it, even though it was the child of a felon. These reflections, in succession, rushed through my mind, and. I was only roused, by observing that Bentley had left the press, and was gliding swiftly and noiselessly toward me, with the sinister look of a red Indian stealing through the woods on the war-path.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     266 For the first time that evening, I lost my presence of mind. sMy true course was to have fled, closing the door behind me. Bat I did not think of this. I was. so startled, horrified and bewildered, so doubt- ful yet that what I saw was not a dream, that I only stepped aside, instinctively, to avoid him. In a moment he had slipped between me and the door, which he closed and locked. The look of savage certainty, the certainty that he had me in his power at last, which supplanted the one of cunning which had been on his face before, gave me the first inti- mation that a real and tangible peril, a peril even of life, had taken the place of the vague and super- natural one which I had originally dreaded. He came up to me, with a hideous grin on his features, now looking more satyr-like than ever; and I recoiled, trembling in all my limbs. For what was I in the hands of this brutal, revengeful, and desperate man? He followed me up, and I lost all courage. With a shriek, I turned and fled to De. spencer. The latter had stood, hardly less spell-bound than myself, holding the sheet of paper in his hand all this while. As- I now threw my arms about him, with a wild look of entreaty for protection, he raised his eyes to his companion, with a sort of puzzled, alarmed expression, which showed me what a. craven   266    THE OLD STONE MANSION. he was at heart, and how be not only feared his con- federate, but depended even on his counsel to extri- cate themselves from this crisis. No  word was spoken, nor did I see Bentley's face, but the eyes of Despencer quailed, and I was not surprised, there- fore, when the latter began, nervously, to unloose my arms from about him. "No, my saucy Miss," said Bentley, following me up, "that won't serve your turn. We meet now where I have the say all to myself." I knew from this how my rejection of him had rankled in his heart all the while. I knew also, from the hurried manner in which Despencer disen- gaged himself from me, that I had no hope except in myself. In a moment all the pride of my charac- ter came to my aid, I flung myself loose from De- spencer with a quick, decisive gesture of contempt, and faced Bentley, feeling as I suppose a stag feels, when, after being hunted all day, it turns at bay on its pursuers. His eye quailed before my defiant look. But it quailed only for a moment. Base as he was, Bent- ley was brave. He colored, as if with shame, at that momentary hesitation, and said, stopping at a re- spectful distance, and with an oath. "You're a trump, and if we can come to an un- derstanding, you need be afraid of nothing. De-   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     267 spencer," and he turned to his comrade, " what do you say? Will this girl keep an oath?" Despencer seemed to know, as little as I did, what the speaker was aiming at. He looked bewildered from-Bentley to me. A smile of contempt began to wreathe the coarse lips of Bentley. !"Will you keep an oath?" he said, turning to me. I answered promptly and decisively. "I won't take any oath here: open the door and let me go." A derisive laugh was the only reply I received. In spite of my attempts to seem fearless, that laugh smote me with secret terror, for I knew, let what would happen, that I could not depend on Despencer for aid. ' You can and shall swear," said Bentley, fixing his eyes on me, and speaking slowly and between his teeth, as if to convince me how relentless he was. "Look here, Miss, you are no fool. You have caught us at what, if known, would send us to the State prison; and you can't suppose we're going to let you off, so that we may be blown to-morrow." "For God's sake," interposed Despencer, "swear not to tell. You don't know Bentley: I do. Swear." He caught my arm as he spoke, and, in his en- ergy, pinched it till it was black and blue. His face   268    THE OLD STONE MANSION. was pale as ashes. This terror of his, at what might happen if I persisted in my refusal, revealed to me, far more than words could have done, the peril that surrounded me. "Swearing in that way, won't do," interrupted Bentley, coolly foldinghis arms and leaning against the table. "You don't seem, Despencer, to realize facts. What guarantee have we that she will keep such an oath? She may do it at first, and after- ward change her mind: and then where are we? No, we must make it her interest to hold her tongue, or rather put her in a position that, even if she wished to tell, she couldn't. She must swear to marry me: that's the only way; for a wife can't be witness against her husband. You're comparatively safe, for the girl has her own notions of honor; and, unless I'm mistaken in her, won't blab against her cousin's husband. But with me, you see, it's differ- ent. She'd as lief hang me, I believe, as look at me." The cool, logical way, in which he put all this, fairly took my breath away. I realized, at once, that entreaties and supplications would be powerless, ad- dressed to such a man. From his point of view, indeed, there was no other safe course for him to take. The plan he proposed was necessary to self- preservation. But I could detect, also, under this   THE OLD STONE  MANSION. calm show of reason, a latent exultatio n lurking in calm T howi o            ne scorncol his eye, that seemed to say to me,no me. You have been fool enough to come prying into the lion's den, now see what you will make of itl" That diabolical look of revenge was for me; the reasoning was for his comrade. Despencer gazed at Bentley and then at me. Once more I appealed to him by a look. There was still enough of common humanity in him to make him pity me. But he saw the justness of his confeder- ate's reasoning, and evidently knew that there was no possibility of moving that confederate from an opinion so emphatically expressed. 'H," he stam- mered, turning finally to me, "can't interfere, you see. Bentley's right. The only safe way is to marry him." "Never 1"I said. "Never?" asked Bentley, in a mocking tone, moving a step toward me. "Never!"I retorted, looking him full in the face. Death, I felt, would be preferable to a union with this ruffian, for that would be worse than mere physical death, it would be the death of the soul. He returned my look for- a full minute, it may have been longer. I had heard that the human eye had a strange power, and the vain hope came across me that I might awe even this unscrupulous and   270     THE OLD STONE MANSION. merciless man. But I felt, as second after second went past, while he continued to gaze at me with that hard, stony, resolute expression, that this hope was slipping by. The expression of his eye changed, indeed, at last. But what a change! That strange gleam, which I had so often noticed there, that dull and sleepy gleam, which reminded me of a snake, began to blaze as he advanced on me. I read its meaning. It was the glare of an assassin. I retreated rapidly to the door. Not because I hoped to escape, for I knew that it was locked, but from the instinct of self-preservation which prompted me, unconsciously, to fly as far as possible. Bentley followed me as rapidly. CHAPTER     XXVII. VENGEANCE IS MNE. IT may seem incredible, but, at that terrible crisis, I was as cool as if safe in my own chamber. I saw the uplifted weapon, and knew that another step would bring Bentley up to hae. Simultaneously, and   THE OLD STONE MANSION.    271 while realizing this, a crowd of thoughts, and recol- lections of the past swept by, in one swift, interminable panorama. Nor was it only the past which occupied me. I looked forward into the future. I said to my- self that my murdered body would be hidden away, most probably,'under the very floor of this room ; and as I had no relatives to take an interest in my fate, there it would lie, for long, long years, till some repairs in the house, or the demolition of the struc- ture, would bring the skeleton to light, to be a day's wonder, and then to be forgotten. Hopeless and helpless I must die; my poor remains would be de- nied even Christian sepulture; nor would there be a solitary soul, in the wide world, to shed one tear for me, except-only Georgiana. Already one'terrible tragedy had taken place in this apartment. I was to be the victim of another. Now it was that I un- derstood the presentiments which had come over me on my late visits to this old mansion. They were the warnings my spiritual nature gave to my physi- cal one; the shudder of the soul at the awful future before me, as associated with this place. But though the premonitions were true, I had mis- taken their meaning. A mightier catastrophe than my death was at hand. For that would have been only an ordinary murder, with some aggravations indeed, but only an ordinary homicide from malice   272    THE OLD STONE MANSION. and revenge, whereas what followed, seemed moreo like a direct interposition of Providence, one of those awful manifestations of avenging justice, which vin- dicate an overseeing, an all-protecting Deity. For just as Bentley was about to take that last step, and even while these thoughts were rushing through my mind, there came two claps of thunder, so near and frightful, and in such quick succession, that the mind had scarcely realized the one before the other followed it. At the first, even Bentley started back, as if mo- mentarily in doubt whether the bolt had not struck the floor between us. He had not recovered himself when the second came. My brain was still dizzy with the first, so that I would have been only half conscious of this, if it had been like any other I had ever heard. But though the preceding clap had been so sharp and close at hand, as had also been that which had awakened me, this was to them what a broadside must be to a mere volley. It seemed as if ten thousand thousand rifles had been fired, not up in the sky, but actually between us and the ceiling. For the minutest fraction of an instant, I could feel the old mansion rock as if in an earthquake; I could hear the echos, as of thunder-bolts infinitely repeated, cracking and rattling away; I could see a vivid flash, so intensely bright, that never before had I realized what lightning really was, and which leaped, a living   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     273 pillar of fire, between me and Bentley, bringing his person out behind it, all ablaze, as if in- lurid flame; and then, or rather simultaneously with all this, every thing swam around me. I knew myself to be reeling. I was whirled backward, and I would have fallen if I had not been hurled into the neighboring corner of the room, where the angles of the walls supported me, insensible for a while of what was passing. The first thing of which I became conscious, on partially recovering myself, was that the apartment seemed filled with smoke of a peculiar, sulphurous odor, through which, as yet, objects were only dimly visible. Neither of -my late companions was to be seen, nor did I hear them in the room. Gradually my senses began to clear; the haze also slowly eddied away, as if moving before some secret current. Looking toward the door, from which this current appeared to come, I saw that it had been burst from its hinges and was lying on the floor, in front of my feet, split into a dozen pieces. Trembling violently, I ventured past it, looking for Bentley and Despen- cer, and soon met a sight that I was already pre- pared to see, and the awe and expectation of which held me back from making my escape, as I might now so easily have done. Directly opposite the doorway, stretched at full 17   274    THE OLD STONE MANSION. length upon the ground, the steel weapon, which had concentrated the electricity upon him, struck from his hand, and lying partially fused at his side, was Bentley. Apparently he was dead. Not a muscle moved, not a quiver was visible. Like some dread image of stone, the face upturned to the sky, he lay there, rigid and impassible. No mark was visible where the lightning had struck. No contortion was in the countenance. He had died, if dead he was, in a moment, smitten down instantaneously in his crimes. As yet I had not observed Despencer. He had been stunned, like myself, and was longer in regain- ing consciousness, but his step, as he hurried un- steadily forward, now arrested my attention. The terrible event which had just occurred, was slowly breaking upon him. At first his look was bewil- dered, but when it fell on the prostrate body, horror and fear succeeded. He started suddenly back. A ghastly pallor took possession of his face; he began to tremble as if in a fit; and it seemed to me that his very hair rose upright. Yet, after a moment, a sus- picion that Bentley might yet be alive, appeared to partially overcome his terror; for he stepped up to his late confederate, stooped over him, gazed scruti. nizingly into his countenance, and then timidly lift- ing his arm, suddenly let it go. The limb fell heav. ily to the floor.   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     275- "' Good God," he cried, in a husky whisper, shrink. ing back affrightedly, " he is really dead." All this, though it seemed to be hours in trans- acting, could not have occupied more than a minute or two; for at this crisis, a hurried step was heard outside, and immediately a spectral figure, in white, appeared in the doorway, where it stopped, as if ar- rested by some sudden and powerful spell. For an instant I started, half thinking it the murdered wife of twenty years ago, come back to visit the scene of the parricide. But I saw almost immediately, that it was Georgiana. Her hair was disheveled, her night- dress flaring wildly, and her face had the awful pal- lor which we associate with the grave. As I after- ward learned, she had been awakened by t'he same clap of thunder which had aroused me, and finding the nurse asleep in a rocking-chair, had remained terrified and helpless, cowering down in bed, till the second and third bolts; following each other in quick succession, had increased her fear to such a pitch, that, in spite of her natural timidity, seizing her infant, she had leaped out, with the impulse of flying to me for protection. Reaching the hall, her eyes had been attracted by the light down stairs; and fancying the house had been struck, and was on fire, she had sought to escape below. But finding the front door barred, she had turned to seek egress in   276    THE OLD STONE MANSION. the rear, when, in passing the library, her steps had been arrested by the sight of Bentley's corpse, with her husband shrinking back from it, shivering and hor- ror-struck, and I standing appalled and silent on the other side. It was not long before she comprehended all, for she had begun, a month before, to have suspicions as to the manner in which her husband obtained his livelihood. She had, indeed, carefully concealed these suspicions, even from me; but they had added to her secret grief, and had turned her thoughts, as I had observed, more and more on death, as the only escape from  unhappiness. These suspicions had never, however, acquired certainty, and she had still tried to flatter herself, at times, that they were groundless. But now, after her wild glances from the corpse to her husband, and then down the room, she understood all. In addition to this the idea possessed her, as I afterward learned, that her hus. band, in some altercation about their felonious work, had murdered Bentley, and that she had arrived at the moment he was rising, from giving the fatal blow. Her eye, in running wildly over the scene before her, fell on me  last of all. With a piercing shriek, in whicheorror and despair, mingled with sudden joy that tnerewas some one to whom she could fly for sympathy and protection, she rushed toward me. I   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     2" sprang forward simultaneously, and she fell fainting into my arms. By this time another party appeared on the scene. It was the nurse, who, worn out by long watching, had slept the sleep of stupefaction, and had remained inattentive to the thunder, hearing it vaguely, indeed, but not fully arousing at it; but who, with the in- stinct of long habit, had awoke the moment her patient sprung from the bed. Her portly person, and comparatively aged limbs, had prevented her from keeping up with the rapid flight of Georgiana. She had even failed to intercept the fugitive at the bottom of the stairs, as the latter fled back from the front door. Hence she had reached the library only at this comparatively late juncture. Her'practiced eye took in immediately, however, enough of the facts before her, to enable her to understand, in the main, what had occurred. Her attention was concentrated at once on her own proper patient. She disembar- rassed me of the double charge of a wailing infant and its miserable parent, by removing the former from my arms, and laying it upon the floor.' Then she proceeded to relieve me, also, in part, of the weight of my cousin's person. I had thought Georgiana dead, and the nurse read this in my face, for her first' words were to reassure me. "She has only fainted," she said. "If I had but   278    THE OLD STONE MANSIONY. some water. But no! We must get her up stairs first: if she comes to here, and sees the corpse, she'll go into convulsions." She looked around as she spoke, and seeing Des- pencer, called to him to assist in carrying his wife upstairs. But he appeared to be completely un- nerved, for he made no movement to obey, but stared vacantly at her. "Lord's sake, the man's lost his wits," she cried. "You take her feet, and I'll take her head. We are strong enough, I guess." Of the subsequent events of that terrible night I have only a vague recollection. We left Despencer crouching in a corner, shivering as in an ague fit; and for some time thought no more of him, our atten- tion being wholly engrossed by Georgiana, who went out of one fainting-fit into another. For we had just recovered her from that with which she had been seized dbivn stairs, when old Jane burst into the chamber, and by her cries and shrieks, revealed not only every thing that I knew already, but much that I little suspected. This threw Georgiana into such a state, that we trembled for her life, and ex- pected nothing less than to see her pass from her fainting-fits into convulsions. Bentley, it seemed, was old Jane's son. He had never, indeed, borne her name: and had been educat-   2719 THtE OLD ST01E XASIOi.  ed away from her. But her heart clung to him, in secret, as the only thing which w as left to her to love.  When he grew up, is hahisJ me person, his talents, and the fashionable company he kept, made her dote on him, if possible, more than ever. In her lonely life, at the deserted old mansion, he w as con- tinually in her thoughts. When his evil habits tinually in her thoug    ony slipped pegan to tell on his fortunes, aud he not onl y slipped- out of reputable society, but got into pecuniary diffi- culties, she opened her store of hoardings and Culties, she opene        At last, even supplied him from her own purse. At last, even this resource was exhausted, and then Bentley bOame a sharper, a gambler, even worse. But still she loved him, as only a lonely, desolate woman can. Years passed. tter son grew towael inklUe-age; she was becoming decrepit herself; heassociated now only with felons; whenhe was with her he often struck her: and yet she loved him still! Finally,he came to her and demanded the use of the long-closed library to establish a press for coun- terfeiting; and though it seemed to her almost sacrilege, for she was thoroughly superstitious, she consented. Hence it was that Despencer, with whom Bentley had now become associated, had rented the old mansion. But a terror of some great calamity, which seemed to haunt her like a Fate in-a Greek tragedy, kept her in continual apprehension. Often   280    THE OLD STONE MANSION. she implored her son to forego his practices, or, at least, to carry them on somewhere else. But he always answered with the same scornful laugh. The clap of thunder had awoke her in common with the rest of the household, and the shrieks of ! my cousin had brought her down stairs. When she saw the corpse of her son, she broke into the most piteous lamentations, mixed with insane reproaches of all in the dwelling. The dangerous condition of Georgiana did not restrain her. She burst into the chamber just as we had recovered my cousin from  her fainting fit, declaring that if Despencer had not misled her son, she would not be childless. My flesh crept at the frightful manner in which she cursed our innocent patient, invoking on her every evil which her imagination could suggest. We  could not, for some time, leave Georgiana long enough to force the half maniacal mother from the room. But at last we removed her, and double-locked the door. After this, her passion took a new turn, and subsided into grief; and throwing herself on the dead body of Bentley, she wept frantically there till almost morning. When the nurse went down stairs in search of the infant, whom we had forgotten till the mother asked for it, she found the poor creature weeping thus across the corpse. Despencer had fled, as we had already   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     281 suspected, from old Jane's ravings. It is probable that when he recovered from his abject terror, he foresaw, that, in consequence of his confederate's death, the crime they had been committing would become known; and he had hurried away, regardless of the tempest, or of his dying wife up stairs. The morning dawned at last. Georgiana was no longer insensible; but she lay, clasping her infant to her bosom, moaning inarticulately, in a condition hardly better. The sky had cleared off; the air was fresh and cool; the birds were singing joyously; every thing without was bright and cheerful. I could not, however, share the joys of Nature, for as I looked at the face of our innocent patient, I saw that death had set his seal there ineffaceably. The sun rose. Voices were heard passing, and directly I became sensible of the noise of numerous feet down stairs. Soon, the nurse, who had gone to see what was the matter, returned to say that old Jane had roused the neighborhood; that quite a crowd had collected already, and that before long there would be a mob, for the news of such events traveled like lightning. "I wish we could keep it from Mrs. Despencer's ears," she said. ", But we cannot, and it will kill her." "We must spare her as much as we can," I an- swered. "If I went down, don't you think I could -persuade these people to go?"   282    THE OLD STONE MANSION. "Oh! no. Old Jane wouldn't allow it. She has already sent for an undertaker and says nobody in the house but herself shall have any thing to do with the corpse. The coroner is already there, be- sides, and will soon have his jury." "The coroner!" "Yes! when any body is killed in this way, or murdered, a coroner's inquest, you know, has to be held." CHAPTER    XXV 11. THE INQUEST. I  HAD  been so occupied with Georgiana that I  had not thought of this. But now  the con- sciousness that I would be called on to give my testimony, made me shrink with instinctive delicacy. Fortunately for me, in one respect, the condition of my cousin continued such as to call for all mny thoughts and energies, so that I had no time to dwell on the ordeal through which I would have to pass; and it was not till I was summoned down stairs, that I realized fully what was before me. Then indeed I  had to call up all my courage. 5   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     283 The inquest was held in the library, which was crowded with spectators, as was also the hall out- side. - I was the first witness examined. A buzz of curiosity ran around the room, -as I entered, and scores of faces'were, eagerly stretched forward to catch a glimpse of me. I trembled consciously, and was glad when a chair was offered to me. "Pray, miss, compose yourself," said the coroner reassuringly. "No harm is intended to you; we shall only ask you what you know of this matter, and detain you as short a time as possible." I kept back nothing that I knew of my own knowledge. A pin might have been heard while I was speaking. When I had closed, more than one of the jurymen looked ominously at me, and several of the spectators whispered aloud their belief in my guilt. But the coroner himself appeared to be a humane- man, and what was equally fortunate for me, an influential one. He interposed promptly in my behalf. "I see no reason,' he said, "why we should detain this young lady longer, or even bind her over to appear as a witness, except on her own recognizance. She has been unfortunate in her as- sociations, perhaps a little imprudent; but that is all. I think'we may now let her go." He looked around -on the jury, and seeing no dissent, bowed me out, having first thanked me for my attendance,.   r to    THE OLD STONE MANSION l I now supposed that my connection with the in- quest was over, and I breathed freer. The nurse was called immediately after me, but soon came back, saying that they speedily discovered she had but little to tell, and had asked her only a few ques. tions in consequence. Georgiana overheard us whis. pering, and insisted on knowing of what we were talking. When she understood it, her only fear seemed to be that her husband might be arrested. On this point, however, the nurse reassured her. "Don't let that worry you, ma'am," she said. "Mr. Despencer ran away in the night, and I've no doubt took the first train that left the city this morning, and will manage to keep out of the way." "Is it so?" said his wife, turning to me. I nodded assent, and from that hour nothing more was said of the fugitive or of his crime. The jury had rendered their verdict, and the old  house been left once more, as I supposed, to our. selves, when there was a knock at the chamber door. The nurse opened it sufficiently to peep out; there was a whispered conversation; and then, softly dos. ing it, she came to the bedside, where I was fanning Georgiana, and told me, in a hushed voice, that a gentleman, whose name she did not know, was out- nide and  urgently requested an interview. Our ?atient had fallen into an uneasy slumber, and at   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      285 Lis slight noise turned as if about to awake. Under her circumnstances, I would have declined to go; it fearing that my visitor would persist, and that ie altercation, however slight, would arouse my rusin, I silently handed the fan to the nurse, and ole on tip-toe from the chamber. Putting my fin- er to my lips, to enjoin silence, I led the way noise- ssly down stairs. When I had reached the parlor, motioned my visitor to a seat, and now for the first me turned to look at him. He was totally unknown to me. But he inspired le, nevertheless, from the first glance, with confi- ence in his character and intentions. His face, lough not very intelligent, was at least benevolent. [is age was probably forty-five or fifty. He looked ke the staid, hard-working father of a large family; ad from his dress and manners, I set him down as small tradesman, which he proved to be. He began at once, but with some embarrassment, ) apologize for having intruded on me. But I egged him to proceed, without preface, to his busi- ess, thanking him for the interest he took in me, nd which I recognized in his soliciting this inter- iew. Thus put at ease, he proceeded, though at first with ome remains of embarrassment, to state that he had een present at the inquest, at first by accident, but   286    THE OLD STONE MANSION. that he had afterward remained from curiosity and interest in the event. He had heard me deliver my testimony, and had been impressed with a conviction of its truth. "But I am sorry to say, Miss," he added, with an awkward bow, "that this was not the impression made on all. In spite of the coroner's kind words to you, I doubt if he doesn't think you guilty also." "Guilty of what?"I asked, in some surprise. "Why, don't you see, Miss? They say you know more of the counterfeiting than you told." "Do you mean to say that I am looked on as an accomplice?" "That's it, exactly." At first the idea of such an accusation seemed ab- surd. I smiled. He saw it, and said, quickly, "You are innocent, and knowing your innocence, can't believe it possible that people should think you guilty. But hear me out. I stood by and lis- tened while others talked; and I heard enough to prove to me that you were in great danger; and so I stood behind, after the rest had gone, and made bold to tell you." "I am sure I am much obliged to you," I an- swered. "But I think you exaggerate my danger. There is nothing that I cannot explain."   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     287 "Ahl I am glad to hear it. But I confess ap- pearances seemed so against you, that I thought I would be doing a kind act by letting you know. You see, Miss," he added, fumbling with his hat, as if unwilling to leave me so confident, "I had a daughter once, that, if she had lived, would have looked like you; and that's what makes me take an interest in you." My visitor's earnest manner, and his evident be- lief that I felt too secure, began by this time to have their influence over me. I remembered that inno- cent people, before now, had been unjustly con- demned. My thoughts, perhaps, were reflected in my face, for my visitor said, "I don't mean to say, you know, that'you'd be found guilty by a jury. But you might be arrested, and tried; and I don't think you'd like that." I shuddered at the very idea. He saw my emo- tion and went on. "I thought that, if I came to you at once, all this might be prevented." I "How?"I said. "By going away at once; to-night, if possible." I shook my head in the negative. Going away was simply impossible, at least while Georgiana lived. My first duty was to her. Even the terrors of a penitentiary could not, for one instant, shake me in this opinion.   288     THE OLD STONE MANSION. "But listen, Miss," he said, edging his chair, in his eagerness, nearer to mine, "and you will see that you must go. First," and he began to count upon his fingers, "you have been, as is now proved by your own admissions, a good deal at this house, and it is fair to calculate must, therefore, have -nown of what was going on." He paused for a moment, as if for assent, looking up earnestly into my face. When the case was put to me in this mariner, I realized, as I had not realized before, how difficult it would be for me to rebut this presumption. "Second," he said, touching the next finger of his left hand, "you have been known to pass money which is certainly counterfeit-" I was taken completely by surprise with this accu- sation. I could not recollect ever having passed spurious bills. I shook my head. "Don't you recollect having bought things for an infant's wardrobe, some months ago?" It flashed upon me all at once; the crisp, new notes, as if just from the bank, and the statement of Despencer to Georgiana that he had received a re- mittance from home. "I see you remember it. And now you'll under- stand why you must go, and why I came to you." For a moment I was silent. I saw the proof thick- ening around me, and I was bewildered.   THE OLD STONE MANSION m     289 "I have seen the bills myself," continued myo guest. "They are a good imitation of the real notes, and might take in a merchant at first; but they differ from the true bills in one important par- ticular, and in that respect they resemble exactly the unsigned notes, which were found printed in the library this morning. They were brought out by one of the firm on whom you passed them, for you see news of things like this accident travel fast; it was over half the city, as I know, before eight o'clock ; and when- this gentleman heard that a counterfeiter had been killed by lightning, at his A very work, that his confederate had fled, and that there was to be a coroner's inquest, he came here, at once, to see what he could find out." "And he identified me, when he saw me as a witness?" "Exactly." I was again silent. But this time I was lost in thought. It was impossible for me to follow my visitor's well-meant advice. Yet if I refused to fly, I could only exonerate myself, by disclosing that I had received the notes from Georgiana, and this would be to sacrifice her at my expense, of which I could not for an instant think. There was nothing for me but to brave the worst. I looked up at my guest. 18   290    THE OLD STONE MANSION. "I cannot go," I said. "God help me 1" Evidently he could not understand my pertinacity. He regarded me, for awhile, half curiously, half amazed. At last, supposing I was more confident, after all, in the panopoly of assured innocence, than I was willing to admit, he said, "I see I must tell you what I hoped would not be necessary. You have an old woman here, a sort of servant, the mother of the dead man?" l"Yes!"I replied, wondering what old Jane had to do with me, in common with this accusation. "That old woman swears positively that you knew of this counterfeiting. She says, that you were helping when the lightning struck her son." I started from my seat in mingled amazement and indignation. Such deliberate perjury was incredible to me. I could explain it in no way except by sup- posing that old Jane knew of my refusal of Bentley, and was now making this accusation against me, out of revenge. But I coud not conceal from myself that she would find ready credence for her story. "I- don't believe her," said my visitor. "But, on your own Showing you were in the library: peo- ple will ask what took you there; and few will think, I fear, that it was mere curiosity." I looked at him in dismay. I saw how hopelessly the net was closing around me. There was no en-   THE OLD: STONE MANSION;     291 couragement in his face. I covered my face with my hanids, and sank back into my seat. "Come," he said, assuringly, "it is not so bad as you think. Take my advice and fly. I don't be- lieve they'll go after you." I made a mute sign in the negative. "If it is the want of money that keeps you," he began, hesitatingly- "No, no," I said, springing up and. taking both his hands, which I shook gratefully, " excellent man, it is not that. But it is impossible for me to go. I cannot desert my cousin." "Your cousin I Is the sick lady up stairs your cousin?" "Yes; and has no friend but me. You see now I cannot fly." His face fell. Gradually the tears welled into his eyes. He brushed them away hastily with the sleeve of his coat; muttered something, as if in apology, about my looking so like his daughter; shook my hand with averted countenance, and was gone. But the moment after he re-entered the door, hastily thrust a card into my hand, and went away perma- nently, saying, "There is where you'll find me, if you ever want a friend." I looked at the card. It was a common business I   292    THE OLD STONE MANSION. one, stating his name and number of his store. Mechanically I put it in my bosom, and returned thoughtfully up stairs. CHAPTER XXIX. THE NEW JERUSATFLE . FROM this hour, the fear of an arrest never left me, except for a few minutes at a time, when I was engrossed with Georgiana. The more I weighed the evidence against me, the more I realized my danger. In addition to the points which the tender- hearted tradesman had summed up, I reflected that there was the additional one of my change of name. Under the circumstances, this, I felt, would be con- clusive against me. Georgiana was awake when I returned to the room. "Come here, Maggy," she said, in a faint voice. I went up to her bedside, when she took my hand and looked feebly up at me. "You have always been good to me," she said. "When I was a thoughtless, self-willed child, and used to take advantage of my situation, you always   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     293 forgave me sooner than I deserved. It was a hard time you had of it, Maggy." "Do not let us talk of the past. Quiet is your only hope. I will fan you again, if you will try to sleep." '"Maggy, you know that no quiet will ever re- store me; that there will be no quiet for me except in the grave. I was thinking of my baby. It will be an orphan, like you were. Will you take-take it-" here her voice broke down; "because if you will, it will be safe from what you suffered." The- tears were in myeyes. "Make your mind easy, dear," I said. "I will take it." She looked from me to the infant, and,a happy smile lit up her face. After awhile she turned to me again, saying: "I have one more request to make. My father- Her voice broke down again. I divined her meaning, however. "You wish me to go to your father?" "Yes," she faltered. "I will go at once. I can get back before night. Nurse, you can spare me till then, can't you?" The nurse answered that she could, and added that my going would ease the invalid's mind, and therefore be better than medicine or watching. Accordingly, I started for the city as soon as   294    THE OLD STONE MANSION. possible. I went on a double errand. The first was to call at Mr. Elliott's. I found the house, as I had feared, shut up, and in answer to my inquiries, was told that the family had- gone to Newport for the-summer. To provide for this contingency, I had written a letter, which I now directed, at the grocery store at the corner, and then carried to the post-office myself. My other errand was to dispose of a few trinkets belonging to Georgiana. For now that I knew how her husband's money had been acquired, I could not consent to use a penny even of what had been received in change for the notes. There were fewer trinkets than I had supposed, and those of less value; but I had learned, before I started, that the others--many of them quite costly ones-had been taken by Despencer from time to time. For two or three days Georgiana was compara- tively calm. But when the time came for a letter, in answer to the one I had written, she grew rest- less and excited. Daily, at her request, I walked into the city, in order to inquire for a reply perso- nally at the post-office. I returned from these long and exhausting journeys, so tired'that sometimes I almost fainted; but I forgot it all in witnessing the disappointment of my cousin. I had made up my mind, from the first, that no notice would be taken   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     295 of her appeal. Nor, though I wrote at her solicita- tion two other letters, was any answer ever re- turned. In this way nearly a fortnight passed. I never heardl a vehicle on the somewhat untraveled road before the house, but my first thought was that it bore the officers sent to arrest me. Meantime, I could only account for the delay, by supposing that the parties who had theprosecution in charge knew of my cousin's failing health, and humanely waited till her death. That event was now rapidly approaching. Day by day, she grew weaker: and her babe with her. She did not, however, see this last. In all her con- versations, she spoke of her child's future, and could not abandon the idea that, sooner or later, its grand- father would adopt it. I made no endeavor to re- move this illusion. Why should I take from her the few grains of happiness she had left? I read much to her from the Bible. She had, I now learned, long ago begun to study that holy Book: it was all she had had, she said, to comfort her for months. The promises of the Gospel were the parts that she was most eager to hear. But she frequently repeated also the words, "Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden." Nearly every day, she asked me to read from Revelations   296    THE OLD STONE MANSION. the description of the New Jerusalem, as the apostle saw it in his vision. One evening as I stood by the open window to breathe a little fresh air while Georgiana slept, the nurse significantly approached. My cousin had failed terribly during the last twenty-four hours, so that I knew at once the object of the attendant. I whispered, "You think she will not survive the night?" "About twelve o'clock she'll go," was the answer. They 'most always do. It's queer, isn't it? But I've seen a great many die, and they drop off either then, or just before daybreak--leastways, in the night some time: two die in the night, where one dies in the day." I turned from her, to avoid such garrulous talk, and because I wished to be alone with my thoughts at this solemn hour. I looked forth into the night. The moon was at the full. Under the soft light the landscape wore a calm as of heaven. The little brook, hidden in the hollow, sung half murmuringly, as if chanting a low, sweet hymn to the quiet trees. The great pines in front of the house stood dark and shrouded, like mighty mourners hushed in solemn awe. "Oh I  this great mystery of life and death," I said to myself. "What is eternity? How can we live forever and forever-we, who can conceive noth-   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     297 ing which has not beginning and end? Yet how can man perish while stars and space survive--the spiritual die while the material endures?"I looked up at the moon. A small, fleecy cloud was near it. How placidly the great orb moved along, returning my look with something of almost intelligence, but still inscrutable! The cloud, for a moment, obscured the face of the orb. A temporary darkness fell on the landscape. The pines seemed to sob, the brook to chant a requiem. A cold shiver ran through all my veins, as if the King of Death, in that instant, had cast his shadow over the scene. Then the great moon emerged, bright and calm, from its passing obscuration, and as it moved majestically along, all Nature seemed to rejoice silently. "It is the life after death," I said, involuntarily. "Thank God for immortality." A whispered summons from the nurse recalled me to the bedside. Georgiana had awoke, had asked for her child, and had then wished me to be sum- moned. She smiled faintly, as I drew near. "You will be a mother to it, if it lives," she said, feebly, looking from the babe to me. "I almost wish it was going home, too." She contemplated it for awhile, as only a mother can regard her infant, and added, "I Poor little dear I it does not know what it will have to suffer."   298    THE OLD STONE MANSION. I knew from the look of the wan, little face, that the daughter would not long survive the mother; but I promised, with tears and a choking voice, all that Georgiana wished. She faintly gathered the babe to her side, crooning over it for awhile. Then she looked up, saying: "I once feared death: I don't fear it now. There is nothing left to live for, but baby; and God, in his wisdom, sees others are fitter to bring it up than I am.  Oh I what a wasted life mine has been. How many opportunities thrown away!  I thought only of my own pleasure; and how God has requited me." She paused for breath. "But he has made me to see the error of my ways. His mercy has brought me here. The idols I  have worshiped have fallen at my feet and been shivered into the clay they were. I am not fit, like you, Maggy, to fight the battle of adverse life. His loving-kindness calls me home. Oh I! God is good, is good " She spoke these words with almost rapture. Then, for a time, she was silent, and lay with closed eyves, but seemed to be praying. I fancied, perhaps it was not all fancy, that a celestial glow gradually irradiated her countenance. After awhile she looked up, smiling with ineffable sweetness. "Read to me, Maggy," she said, speaking slowly and with diffi. culty, '-that part-of the chapter-in Revelations."   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     299 I knew now of what she had been thinking as she prayed. I took the Bible and began to read with a composed voice, though the tears fell fast; for I felt that it was the last time I should ever read to her. "And I beheld, and lo! a great multitude, which no man could number, of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues, stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed-with white robes, and palms in their hands; and cried withi a loud voice, saying, 'Salvation to our God, which sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb."' There was an audible response from the bed. I read on to the end of the twelfth verse. As I paused then, for an instant, the jubilant voice of the brook seemed to echo, through the heavenly nigtt, the con- cluding words, "Forever and forever!" I resumed. "And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, 'What are these which are arrayed in white robes, and whence come they?' And I said unto him, 'Sir, thou knowest.' And he said unto me, ' These are they which come out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple; and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them. They shall hunger no more,   800     THE OLD STONE MANSION; neither thirst any more, neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat. For the lamb, which is in the midst of the throne, shall feed them, and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters; and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes.'" "Shall wipe away all tears from their eyes," was echoed softly from the bed: and then all was quiet. I waited five minutes, ten, half an hour, watching while my cousin seemed to sleep. At last I heard a deep sigh. I looked quickly at the nurse; then at Georgiana. Her hands were folded -on her breast, her head lay back on the pillow; she was dead. But in the rapt expression of the face, I was reminded of a picture I had once seen of St. Catharine trans- lated to heaven by supporting angels; and as the trees rustled without in a sudden breeze, I started, half expecting to see the hushed figure float away, upborne by similar celestial messengers. She was happy at last I She had gone from much tribulation. While I looked down, reverently, on what had been so lately the home of an immortal soul, and which was still radiant with its departing sunset, other texts rose up to my memory, as if some unseen spirit audibly repeated them. "And I heard the voice of harpers harping with their harps; and they sung, as it were, a new song before the throne.   THE OLD STONE, MANSION.    801: "These are they which follow the Lamb whither. soever he goeth. "And there shall be no night there; and they need no candle, neither light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light; and they shall reign forever and ever." CHAPTER XXX. HOMELESS. EARLY the next day, the babe also di'ed. One coffin, therefore, held mother and child. The second morning after, I followed them to their humble grave. It was a gloomy day. A raw wind was blowing from the east; low, leaden-colored clouds obscured the sky; every moment it threatened to rain, When I returned to the old mansion, I began to pack up a few things belonging to my cousin, which she had wished to be given to her father. The own- ers of the property, on the afternoon of the coroner's- inquest, had served a notice at the house, requiring us to vacate it within a certain number of days. I   302    THE OLD STONEi MANSION. discovered then, that no rent had been paid for months, and that, in such cases, the law permitted a summary ejectment. With great difficulty, I com- promised with its agent, by agreeing to leave the furniture in payment, provided he allowed my cou- sin to remain undisturbed for the little time she had to live. It was almost night when I had finished. The rain was now falling steadily, with every indication of continuing for a day or two; it was evidently what is called the August storm. The carriage had been long in waiting, and the driver impatient Direct- ing myself to be driven to my old boarding-house, though with many misgivings how I should be re- ceived, I lay back on the seat, put my hand to my ,throbbing forehead, and began to think  of my future. It was hopeless enough. All day, since the fune. ral was over, I had been expecting to be arrested. Whenever the wind rattled the dry pines louder than usual, whenever any sudden noise of any kind was heard, I started, thinking it the officers coming te carry me to prison. It was with a sense of relief that I found myself in the carriage, for already I seemed to have half escaped the threatened indig. nity. Could I but gain another day, in which to execute Georgiana's dying commission, I would be   THE OLD STONE MANSION,     808 secure; -for I would then leave the city, and bury my disgrace elsewhere. For disgrace it was, at least, in the eyes of others. They know but little of the human heart, who think that the consciousness --of innocence is sufficient to sustain one, in circumstances like mine. Not that it is no alleviation. Without it, indeed, I should have died. But only those who have been in simi- lar peril can understand the anguish under whbich my soul writhed, when I thought of being publicly tried for so grave a crime. In imagination, I saw the inexorable judge, the hostile lawyers, the gaping spectators; I heard the cruel accusation, the perjured witness, the ribald jests of the crowd. To a brutal animal, such as the felon usually is, the fetter and cell may have the most terrors; but -to me, this moral gibbeting was infinitely more ap- palling. And if I should be convicted! For were not the chances that I would be? To the array of evi- dence against me, which the honest tradesman had recounted, my change of name would now be added. For, on the inquest, I had told my real name;,and though my assumption of another had not been known to the jury, it would inevitably come out in the event of my trial. This, in conjunction with the rest, would condemn me. Ah I how I realized now   304'    THE OLD STONE MANSION.' the necessity of a woman, not only being innocent, but carefully maintaining the appearance of it. When I entered the parlor of my boarding-house, I saw that my forebodings had been correct. Seve- ral of my old companions were present, but not one of them noticed me: and when I asked the servant to get me a light, for that I wished to go to my room, she )aid no attention to me, but flouted out of the room with an insolent air. I followed her, with a burning cheek, and met the landlady on the stair. Heretofore I have said nothing of my landlady. She had been left a penniless widow, with several children to maintain, after having repented, for sev- eral years, a runaway match she had made-with a good-looking, selfish, drunken husband. Much that was disagreeable in her character I had charitably accounted for by these antecedents. She was, in person and appearance, thin and hard featured. Her temper was sour, her intellect narrow. Her voice was almost continually heard, from the greasy depths of the kitchen, scolding the maid-servants. At table, she watched her boarders with the eye of a hawk, to see who it was that dared to ask for a second piece of pie. She had always been extremely civil to me, principally, I suppose, because I punctually paid my bills. But now she followed me to my chamber, and   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     805 when there,* gave me to understand that, after what had happened, I could no longer be received at her house. "You see, Miss," she continued " people will talk, and every body says-well, I needn't repeat what they do say ;--but if I was to let you stay, all my boarders would leave to morrow."', I was stunned. For whither should I go? If those who had been my companions, if my landlady, who ought to have known me, were persuaded of my guilt, who would believe me innocent, and where could I find shelter? I told her, in reply, that I only came to remain for the night, and that I would not make my appearance down stairs again, if she would permit me to stay; and on these conditions I was finally allowed to remain. But, if it had not been for the fury of the storm, I believe I should have failed to obtain even this qualified assent. It was late in the night before I had completed packing my wardrobe, not because it'was so large, but because I had to pause continually, for I was now really ill. The events of the last fortnight had broken me down at last; and long before I was ready to retire, I began to fear it would be days, perhaps weeks, before I could rise from my bed. This was a new peril, which I had not contemplated; and the mere possibility of it took away my breath. In my 19   v   806    THE OLD STONE MANSION. landlady's present frame of mind, I dreaded lest she should turn me into the streets, when she found me ill, perhaps about to die. Or, if she did not, my es- cape would now be impossible-my arrest certain. With these thoughts I crept into bed. Agitated by them, I long remained awake. And when, finally, I fell into a troubled sleep, it was to be tortured by horrible dreams, from which I woke, toward morn- ing, in a violent chill. I lay there, after the chill had left me, racked with pain in every limb, and parched with thirst. I would have given any thing for some water, but what there had been I had drunk, and no one came to see me. , Once or twice, when I heard steps outside, I called, feebly; but my calls were either unheard, or disre- garded. I even rose and tottered to the door; but- still I could not make myself heard. After this, I recollect nothing distinctly, except creeping back into my bed, and thinking, in a vague way, that I was about to die. The thought made me happy, rather than otherwise. But my consciousness of it can hardly be called thinking. The sensation was one of intense longing for rest and peace, rest from the throbbing brain and racked frame, peace from the sorrows of life, peace and forgetfulness. There came, at last, however, a dim sensation of being lifted from my bed, borne down stairs, and '   THE OLD STOXE MANSION,      307' placed in a carriage; after which, it seemed to me, I was driven away. But before I reached my destina-. tion I lost all consciousness: .if, indeed, this removal had not itself been only a phantasy of the brain. But phantasy or not, never shall I forget my feelings at that moment, for I supposed that I was being taken to prison. Instinctively, I tried to resist; I cried out. But this was only for a second. Imme- diately I relapsed into that condition, in which all I asked was rest and peace: and from that I passed into unconsciousness.  Next I have a confused memory of wild visions of happiness, that were snatched"from me always at the very moment of fruition. Now I stood waiting a bride at the altar; already I hearda well-known footstep approaching; when suddenly the earth opened and fiends rising up snatched me away. -Now, famished and athirst, I was drifting about on a desolate sea. All at once an angel appeared above, extending a hand to res- cue me. But just as the fingers touched mine, a thunderbolt separated us, thick darkness enveloped me, the wild waves rose, spectres gibbered past. Now I was falling, falling through illimitable space. Then the character of the illusions changed. I was dying in the public streets. It was raining fright- fully. Thousands passed by. Yet nobody took pity on me. At last 'a familiar fqrm approached and   308    THE OLD STONE MANSION. stopped with instinctive humanity. But when he saw who it was, he also turned away. I lay, bound to a hungry lioness, in an African desert, momently ex- pecting to be devoured. The savage beast would look at me, licking her mouth, and then roar across the vast waste of sand, to where her famished whelps were hastening toward us. A hunter approached. Amid all his disguise I knew him. He did not, however, see me. I tried to call him. But a spell chained my tongue. Oh! the horror of those mo- ments while he went slowly by, almost touching me. Then I was a homeless wanderer. on a mighty plain. A whirling snow storm almost blinded ihe, yet I struggled on, for far ahead, dimly seen through the tempest, shone a feeble light. At last I reached the doorway, and had just strength to knock, when I sank exhausted on the threshold. The portal opened, and joy of joys I he it was that stooped to lift me. But before he could touch my person, a fair-haired lady, whom I recognized only too well, rushed be- tween us, and bade him stand aside, for that the marriage vow separated him and me forever. The door shut with a clang, and I was alone and per- ishing. With these wild visions were mingled others. A mild, matronly face occasionally hovered about me. Then kind voices whispered, as if fearing to wake   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     309 me out of sleep. Then after a long blank, I would be roused, as if to take medicine; but before I could fully realize my situation, before I could know whether I dreamed or not, insensibility would re. turn. Then the delirium would comrn back. I was on a rack of fire. I was sinking into a bottomless abyss of ice. Funeral processions went by, with vailed faces, with wailing voices; and the burden of their lamentation was always the same, "Lost I for- ever lost!" --*-- CH APTER   XXXT. THE GOOD SAMARITANS. MY   first conscious recollection is of hearing voices whispering near me, and feeling a fresh breeze blowing over me, as if from an open window. A sensation of delicious languor pervaded my frame. Faintly I opened my eyes. I was in a small, but exquisitely neat chamber.  Close by my head, a white muslin curtain, that softened the glare of day, was flapping gently in the wind. In front of this curtain stood a physician, with his fingers on my pulse: and by him a woman of middle age, with the calm matronly face I had seen in my dream.   810    THE OLD STONE MANSION. "The crisis is over, she will live," the physician was saying. When I opened my eyes, he stopped, smiled on me, and turned triumphantly to his com- panion. I made an effort to rise. But I was too weak to get even my head from the pillow. The matron leaned over me, kissed me, and drew the quilt closer about my throat. "Lie still, my dear," she said, "you have been very sick, and every thing depends on quiet. There, don't ask questions, at least to-day. You are among friends. As soon as you are able, you shall hear all about it." But my impatience could not be restrained, and accordingly, that afternoon, the physician having pronounced me better still, the matron gratified my curiosity. It seems that my landlady had been the first to discover my condition. She had come up to my room, indignant that I had not kept my promise to go, and there found me in a high fever and delirium. The physician, who was summoned, had soon dis- covered her unwillingness to keep me, and had men- tioned it that afternoon, in a family where he was attending. "I am quite interested in her, poor thing!" he said, " and she reminds me strikingly of your daughter, whom   you lost. Her story is a   THE OLD. STONE MANSION.    8" melancholy one, Mrs. Wharton, even on, the lancd- lady's showing, though I fancy there must be exag- geration in it. I cannot believe that my patient has been guilty of the half of which she is accused." The heart of the mother whom he was addressing, yearned to the friendless girl, who looked so much like her lost daughter. ' She will die, I fear," con- tinued the physician, "if left where she is; for she has little attendance, and that grudgingly bestowed." While he was still speaking, Mr. Wharton came in. The wife recounted what the doctor had said. "Why," exclaimed the husband, "that is the poor girl whom I wanted to go away, after the inquest that was held on the counterfeiter struck dead by lightning. Don't you remember, mother, my telling you about her? She would'nt go, though in danger of an arrest, because her cousin was sick. She's a noble girl, doctor, and there is not a word of truth about what these people say: at any rate, I won't believe it. I tell you what we'll do, my dear, we'll have her here. Doctor says that little Johnny will do now, so you'll have time to nurse her; and if we save her life, we'll be paid for it in the next world, though we shan't in this." So this good Samaritan had me away that very evening, my landlady being, nothing loath. For a long while I hung between life and death.   312     THE OLD STONE MANSION.'. Nothing but a vigorous constitution, the physician said, had carried me through. To this, I mentally added the good nursing of my hosts and the skill of the speaker. Oh I how this unexpected kindness from strangers, went to my heart. As I lay there, silently thanking God for his goodness, and gratefully, pressing the matron's hand, I thought of the text of Scripture: "I was a hungered, and you gave me meat; thirsty, and, you gave me drink; a stranger, and ye took me in." And those other words came up to me, with a meaning they had never had before: "Inasmuch as ye did it unto the least of one of these, ye did it unto me." For the first three or four days, I had more ques- tions to ask than I was permitted to put, for the physician still insisted on quiet. "My nervous sys- tem  had been so shattered," he said, that the least excitement might bring on a relapse; and in thht case, typhus would be inevitable. It was not all at once, therefore, that I learned the whole story of my removal. Nor was it till the fourth day, that my mind was set at ease on a subject, which had agitated me in secret ever since I regained my senses. "The doctor," said my nurse, " wishes you to be told that there is no danger, any longer, of your being arrested. Father has just been to see about it, and has come back with the best of news. Old; Jane died last   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     $13 week, and, on her death-bed, took back all she had said against you. She had sworn to a lie, she said, because she wanted to be revenged on you; but she now repented of it. The man, on whom you passed the notes, and who, at first, was so hot to have you taken up, has been talked over by father and others, and says he is quite convinced now that you are innocent." What could I say to thank the good tradesman, he whom his wife, in her motherly way, called father,- and who now came in, only less embarrassed than when he visited me at the old mansion? I tried, in my feeble way, to tell him how grateful I was. But he would not, hear me out. He had only done, he said, what one Christian ought to do for another, one human being for a fellow. Could he have ever slept quietly again, if he had left me to be arrested, believing, as he did, that I was innocent? Would not the thought of me have haunted him all his life, if he had abandoned me to die at my land- iady's? Did I say, nevertheless, that few would have done like him? He would not believe it. He was sure men and women were better than they were so often described. He had thought to himself, that, if his daughter had lived, and any one had left -her to perish, or be condemned unjustly, he would never have forgiven that person. While he talked in this   314    THE OLD STONE MANSION. strain, I looked up, feebly, at him, and his face, homely enough, I doubt not, to ordinary eyes, seemed to me literally, to "shine as an angel's." I mur- mured involuntarily to myself, '"He hath chosen the weak things of this world to confound the mighty." How the fine ladies, who used to flutter in and out, at Madame's, would have stared, if anybody had asked them to do as he had done! i How infinitely absurd!" they would have cried. Once, Mrs. D'Alen- con, caught in a shower, had taken refuge in an omnibus where I was riding. I shall never forget the manner in which she drew away her skirts, when other passengers entered, as if the touch of ordinary people was contamination, or the hauteur with which, when the coach became crowded, she pulled the cheek-string and got out, evidently preferring the rain to the company of common flesh and blood, How quixotic a D'Alencon must think it to take a poor, friendless sewing girl into one's house and nurse her back to life I I am afraid that my humble friend, the honest tradesman, seems as foolish in the eyes of the D'Alencons and Perts, as the apostle Paul and his followers appeared in those of their polished Pagan sisters, eighteen centuries ago. I had thought the physician, at first, rather an elderly man. But on his second visit, I saw that he could not be more than forty years of age, and per-   THE OLD STONE MANSION..       15 haps was considerably younger. His face had a natural gravity, which made him seem older than he was, exept when he smiled. But that smile was one of the most beautiful I have ever seen. It lit up his deep eyes, and massive outlines of countenance, like the morning sunshine transfigures the recesses and cliffs of a granite mountain, changing their stern gloom into brightness and joy. In repose, the broad forehead, the full nostril, the square cin, gave him a look of coldness and reserve that almost repelled you. But when he -smiled, the kindness and be- nevolence of his heart shone out, breaking all this up, as the June sun breaks up the Arctic ice, making the late desolate plains laugh with grass and flowers and streams. He said little, till I was strong enough to sit up, but after that he often talked with me for an hour at a time. I gained strengthbutslowly. Dr Gardiner said it was because I was too eager to get well. "You fret yourself," were his words, " as all nervous people do. I sometimes wish nobody had nerves; that every patient was like one of those calm, large-eyed oxen, which the Hindoos worship; for then one might make cures. These nerves, Miss Gray,7 he added, with one of his rare smiles, " which make us really all that we are, and without which men are little better than animal!, play sad havoc, nevertheless, with the sys-   816     THE OLD STONE MANSION. tem. It is getting worse and worse, too, for my pro. fession, as the world grows more civilized; for nervous diseases increase in proportion as nations progress from barbarism; and the best of us know comparatively little of these said nerves." This conversation took place, one morning, when we were alone, my hostess having been called away by her household affairs. My reply was that I could not avoid what he called fretting. "I can be frank with you, doctor," I said, "for you know something of my antecedents. I shall never forget the rare kindness of our friends here, but that very kindness makes me the more eager to get well, so as to be no longer a burden to them. You and they have tried to keep from me what a season of distress it is; but in vain; for a newspaper, occasion. ally left behind by accident, has revealed to me that, since my  illness, a monetary crisis has set in, that merchants and manufacturers are failing, that the banks have stopped payment, and that even the rich hardly know where to get the means to supply their wants. In a time like this, I cannot but be a serious burden to my host-say now, am I not right?" The doctor exhibited more embarrassment at this than I  had thought so self-collected a character could. He answered evasivelyr: - "  Iwill not deny that there is commercial distress.    THE OLD STONE MANSION.     317 Every few years, as you well know, this young and 'energetic country must pass through a crisis. The truth is, it overtaxes its strength, a fever sets in, and then we have general bankruptey." " I can see that both Mr. and Mrs. Wharton are anxious. Has Mr. Wharton failed ?" "No. I can put you at ease as to that point. And now you really must not talk about this sub- ject any more; it is too agitating; it leads you too much to think about yourself. Have you begun the novel I brought you yesterday ? That little active brain of yours must have work, I know; but any thing more exciting than a novel I quite forbid at present.': In vain I tried, on several subsequent occasions, to bring the conversation back to the financial crisis and to the manner in which it affected my hosts, whose anxiety, in spite of their efforts at conceal- ment, visibly increased. I noticed that the wife was now almost always absent, excusing herself on ac- count of her household affairs; and I learned at last from one of the children, accidentally, that the servant who had formerly been kept to help in the kitchen had been discharged. But the doctor would not permit me to discuss these things. He now pro- tracted his visits longer than before. Naturally shy, it was only where he felt himself at home that he   318    THE OLD STONE MANSION. -- permitted his native enthusiasm to break out. He seemed to feel no reserve before me. "' It is refresh- ing," he would say, "to get here, for every thing is so neat. I hurry from splendidly furnished rooms, and make my visits as short as possible, in order to have an hour of quiet talk with you or our excel- lent friend, Mrs. Wharton." With these words he would sit down, feel my pulse, declare I was getting on wonderfully, at least for so nervous a perspn; and then beginning with some plesasant anecdote, would gradually pass to graver themes, and finally launch into a brilliant disquisition on some disease. The functions of the nerves was one of his favorite themes. To this branch of his profession he had de- voted, he avowed, his best thoughts, and had made, he modestly hoped, some important -discoveries. They were new ideas, at least so new, that as yet he hardly dared to act upon them. "A physician," he said, "has no right to experiment on a mere theory. So I feel my way. Some day, however, I shall de- monstrate to everybody's satisfaction, that I am right. But now I have talked enough for to-day; more I fear than is good for you; you must lie down and sleep a little after I am gone. You will lie down? Remember, I am your physician." At last, the day that I discovered my hostess was doing her own kitchen work, I insisted on being   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      319 heard. Impatiently I waited till the doctor came. I began at once. "Doctor," I said, "you have not been sincere with me." , "How?" he asked, changing color. My severe manner, not less than my words, evidently hurt him.             - I recounted what I had heard. The tears rose to my eyes, in spite of myself, as I concluded, saying: "And all this you might have spared me, if you had told me, what I am now certain of, that my kind friends are in trouble. A week ago, I am sure, I was able to go away-able, at least, to try and do something for myself; and I wanted to do it, as you know, only you forbade me, in the capacity of my physician." "And I should forbid you still," he answered gravely, "if I had it to do over again. It would have been as much as your life was worth." "But I am better now. I am quite well. At any rate," I continued, as he shook his head, "I shall look out at once for some employment." He was silent for a moment, during which he kept his eyes fixed upon the ground. His face, too, was averted, so that I could not see it. When he raised his glance at last, it had a tender, yet sad expression, as he said:   820    THE OLD STONE MANSION. - "I will not longer conceal, Miss Gray, that our friend has been unfortunate; that he has failed; and : that, like an honest man as he is, he regards every- thing he has as belonging to his creditors. I would have told you this a week ago, only I knew what you would do; and I knew also that you were too ill to do it." He hesitated a moment, and then went on: "I am a man unused to ladies' boudoirs, and may not say what I have to say as elegantly as I should. But my heart is true. If science has been my sole mistress so long, it has not been because I was blind to the greater happiness of a wife and home, but because, for years, I could not afford to marry; and because, after I had won a position, I seemed too old, too fixed in my habits, too little fitted to please, to hope to win a bride. Nor till now have I ever seen a woman whom I thought I could love. Nay, do not interrupt me, at least till you havenheard me through. You will say you do not love me. But, perhaps, in time you may. I will be satisfied to take you as you are. Under other circumstances, I should not have pressed my suit, at what some might call a disadvantage. I have waited, hoping that you might come to like me, and that so every thing would be right. But this determination of yours compels me to speak now."   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     321 I had remained silent all this while. Once, I had looked up, about to speak; but, as the reader has seen, he had prevented me. -My tears were falling fast, for this avowal had come upon me so suddenly, the pain of denying so good and worthy a suitor was so sharp, and I was still so nervous, that I could not restrain them. Indeed, I did not wish to restrain them; it seemed better, on the whole, to let them flow, and so show my deep sympathy for the speaker. Neither did I withdraw my hand when he now took it, for he took it as a friend even more than as a lover. He had paused for -a moment, evidently to gather courage to go on. He now resumed. "I offer you a home, as my wife. If I could offer it without your becoming such, knowing that you only esteem me, I would: but this is impossible. Pause and think well over it, before you refuse. It is a terrible time. You do not know the half about it yet. You are weak still. Months may elapse before you can get any thing to do." His voice, strong and self-contained as he was, failed him at these words. After a moment, he added, huskily and hurriedly, "God help you I To-morrow I will call for an answer." He pressed my hand as he spoke, and was gone. I waited, in a sort of breathless amazement, hearing 20   322    THE OLD STONE MANSION. his firm step receding down the staircase, till the front door closed behind him; and then, covering my face with my hands, I tried my best to realize what seemed only a strange dream. Blind, blind-how could I have been so blind? As I recalled our many interviews, I could see now that I ought to have discovered his love long ago. Yet I had gone on, day after day, thinking that the interest he showed toward me was merely that of a physician to a patient. How I censured myself for having 'given him  this tacit encouragement! I knew that his noble heart would suffer far more from a refusal, than that of ordinary men. Then I suddenly asked myself if, after what I had done, I had the right to refuse him?   Ought I, indeed, under my circumstances, to refuse him at all? I sat there for hours, revolving this question. Could I not love him? He was good, he was gen- erous, he was emin'ently manly. His character and intellect, indeed, were to be admired and looked up to, in every respect. But notwithstanding this, I did not love him.  Nor could I persuade myself that I ever would.  My pulse, even during his passionate appeal, had not quickened. If I had never met Mr. Talbot-if I had never loved another, it might have been possible. But now-  I  stopped suddenly in this train of thought.     THE OLD STONE MANSION.     8 23 Others had married where they did not love, why should not I? A purely selfish marriage, such as conventional ones usually are, I was incapable of; but this would not be one of that description. Dr. Gardiner knew I did not love him; he was willing to take me as' I was; there would be no deception on my part; and though I might never love him as I had once loved, I might, in time, come to enter- tain an affection for him, less romantic, to be sure, but perhaps more durable. But this sophistry did not deceive me long. The very nobleness and gene. rosity of my suitor forbade that I should carry to him a heart no longer virgin--nay, a heart worse than widowed, a heart burnt to ashes, and already inurned. But how was I to live? As he had himself said, I was far from well. Here I could not stay, even a day longer, though I died, on leaving, at the first crossing. In the whole world I had not, if I re- jected him, a solitary friend to go to. Was it wrong, under such circumstances, to accept his offer? I could, at least; be a faithful wife. Here I stopped again. Could I be a wife at all, in the holier sense of that word? Was marriage really marriage when love was absent? Whatl sell my- self for a subsistence, when, but for my poverty, I would refuse? I shuddered to think how near I had been to yielding, and for how base a reason.   324    THE OLD STONE MANSION. Suddenly, there rose up before me the vision of my lonely, unloved life. If I married Dr. Gardiner, I would have some one to love me, some one to cherish me. The sweet ties of family would gather about me. I should be happy, because making others happy. My old age would be soothed by the tender care of daughters and the manly rever- ence of sons. But if I refused him, I should be alone through all the rest of my life; without a home; without family ties; with no outlet for my natural affections. No tearful faces would watch beside my dying pillow. Hirelings would hurry me into my coffin, and hirelings only would follow me to my grave. This was a picture no woman could endure. I felt that for such a fate I was unequal. I would marry him. But stop! at what price was I to purchase my exemption? By the sacrifice of a worthy man, who had done nothing to deserve this, but who, on the contrary, merited my gratitude by his generosity and kindness. Yet, would I sacrifice him? He loved me; to refuse him would be to dis- appoint his dearest wish: nol it would not be sacri- ficing him. I did not delude myself long, however, with this idea. It might seem to him now, I said, that we could be happy. But he would be mistaken. Love cannot be commanded. The intimacy of mar-   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      325 ried life is such, that aversion springs up inevitably, if love is absent. No pain of lovers ever yet thought exactly alike on all points, so that there is much, in the first yearts of marriage, to try the best of us, fallible creatures that we are. First would come his disappointment, for disappointed he would be that I did not begin to love him; then he would find that this want of love made me less tender of his failings and more indifferent as to my own; and so, step by step, hard thoughts would creep in, alien- ation, cold hauteur on one side, remorse and anguish on the other. I have read somewhere of a galley slave, whose companion died, and who was left, for days, chained to the corpse, to toil at his heavy oar under a tropical sun. Such, I said to myself, is mar. riage without love. It is a living soul fettered to a dead body. All that day, and far into the night, I debated thus with myself. When Christian passed through the Valley of the Shadow of Death, when the smoke of the torment rose up on either side, when fiends gibbered in the awful gloom, he fought no harder fight than I fought then. But I came out of it tri- umphant. Gradually, the sophistries which assailed me, one by one, like the Pilgrim's spectres, took flight; I saw my path distinctly before me; and I hesitated no longer. I would keep my own self.   826    THE OLD STONE MANSION. respect. At the worst I could but die. It was better to die than to sin. For to me, marriage without love, was sin. Others might not regard it as such; I made no accusation against others; but so long as my conscience shrank from the act, so long was it a sin for me. When I had come to this decision, a peace inde- scribable stole over me. It was like passing, sud- denly, from a tempest-tost ocean into a calm haven. It was like being lifted from a rack and laid on a bed of roses. I fell, after it, into the sweetest sleep I had enjoyed for months. In a dim way, that struggle, and the almost divine peace which followed it, re- vealed to me how it is that martyrs can slumber, with smiles on their faces, while the noise of the hammer, erecting their scaffold, goes on outside. CHAPTER XXXTT. THE FLIGHT. I ROSE, next morning, with the same deep peace on my soul. I was exhausted in body, indeed, but my spirit was firm. My principal thought was how to lessen the first sharpness of my refusal to Dr. Gardiner. I concluded, at last, to write to him, for   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     327 I knew I could hardly get through with an interview. I gave him a full history of my former engagement, as my best justification for declining his suit. In after years, if not immediately, he would, I said to myself, appreciate my decision. Having sealed this letter, I desired Mrs. Wharton to give it to the doctor, when he came, and to say that I was engaged and could not see even him. The good woman suspected, I am sure, something of the truth, and looked wistfully at me, as if she would be glad of an explanation; but I could not speak, even to her, on so sacred a subject. I had already told her that I was going away. She had begged me to remain till I was stronger. , But I had answered that I now knew, at last, her husband's misfortunes, and that I considered it cruel in her not to have mentioned them before. When she found that my decision was unalterable, she told me that, in another week, they expected to have to leave their house. "'What will become of us, miss, the Lord only knows," she' said, with her apron at her eye. "' Our creditors are very hard-hearted, I some- times think. But father says we musn't lose faith. It was only last night- that he bade me remember the text, ' I have never seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread?' And so I try to lean upon the Lord." To avoid the possibility of Dr. Gardiner insisting   328    THE OLD STONE MANSION, on seeing me, I resolved to go out. I needed some money for my plans, and I had no way of obtaining it, except by the sale of my wardrobe. Fortunately, my few things were still in my trunks, for I had packed them, the reader will remember, on the night I was taken sick. Calling a porter, I set forth. I soon dispatched my errand, but to be secure of my purposes, lingered in the streets till nearly noon. Nor had this delay, as I found on my return, been unnecessary. Dr. Gardiner had remained for nearly two hours, waiting to see me; and when finally com- pelled to go, had left word that he would be back at three o'clock, when he begged me to be in. I was still thinking how to avoid this interview, when my eye fell on the morning paper, a penny one, which, as yet, I had not seen that day. I took it up, in a sort of listless way, half hoping to find an advertisement for a governess or seamstress, but yet hardly daring to expect such good fortune. The very first words I read were the following:- WANTED.-A Governess, to take charge of two small children. Apply at Hemlock Farm, near the Poplar Station, on the Ridge railroad. I turned promptly to another column of the paper, to see at what hour the next train, on the Ridge rail- road, went out. I found that one had left, early in the morning, and that another would leave in the   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      329 afternoon. Looking again at the advertisement, I saw that this was the, first time it had been inserted. A sudden hope filled me. I would expend what little money I had in going to this place; for I rea- soned that its distance would preclude many appli- cations, and so my chance of success would be increased. If I set out at once, I might anticipate all others. Accordingly, I divided my now scanty wardrobe into two parts, one of which I put into a small trav- eling satchel, and the other I left, with a note to Mrs. Wharton, asking her to keep it till asked for. In this note I enclosed most of the money which I had received that morning from the pawnbroker. I wished, as far as possible, to repay these kind people for what they had expended for me, and this was the only way in which I could do it; for if I had personally tendered them the bills, they would have refused them peremptorily. Then I stole down stairs, and out of the front door. I gave no clue, in my note, as to where I was going. "No," I said to myself, as I folded it up, " what I suffer, I will suffer alone: their good hearts shall have no pangs on my account; their own troubles, now, are as much as they can bear." There was another, also, from whom I wished to hide myself; and I thought of him, too, as I stealthily left the roof of the Whartons, uncer- tain where I should find another like it, if ever.   830    THE OLD STONE MANSION. The train soon started. Before many minutes, we extricated ourselves from the suburbs, and were rushing along the side of a beautiful river, the western sun gilding its wooded heights and shim- mering on its placid waters. The towns and facto- ries, scattered at intervals on either shore, shot past like white wreaths of smoke. Now we dashed through a dark tunnel, now crossed the stream on an airy bridge. The rapid motion was in unison with the stir and excitement of my mind. I looked through the barred windows of the car and blessed the mile-posts as they flew by. I was impatient to be at my journey's end. For I now began to fear that some one had antici- pated me. There was a morning train, so that any one who had seen the advertisement soon enough, might have had the start of me by several hours. I knew there must be hundreds out of employment, who were quite as competent for the situation. Then I tortured myself with the idea that there might be many in the train on the same errand. I saw more than one whose air and dress gave color to this notion. How I watched, at each station, to see if they got outl When, at last, all had left but one, leaving no other passengers of my sex, except ladies whose dress proved them to be above the necessity of seeking such a situation, and coarse-featured women evidently belonging to the agricultural pop-   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     831 ulation of the German county we were traversing, I sighed with inexpressible relief: a relief only to be understood by those, who have been in fear for their daily bread, and have had those fears quieted temporarily, I now began to speculate; for the first time, as to the character of the place I was visiting; for, up to this point, such had been my eagerness to get the start of other applicants, I had not thought of this. Its homely title showed that it was an ordinary farm house; and from its -location, in the heart of a region wholly rural, I concluded the culture of its family was of the rudest. But why need a governess at all? Why not be content with the road-side school'? I puzzled myself, a long while, endeavoring to solve this problem, but to no purpose. I could conjecture nothing except that one of the children, if not both of them, were half idiotic; that this rendered their attendance at the district school impossible; and hence the necessity of a governess. I knew enough of that section of the State to know that no other circumstance could induce a farmer to resort to so comparatively expensive a method of education. I settled, therefore, that this was the state of the case. I was aware there were plenty of farmers in that vicinity rich enough to employ a governess if com- pelled to; so there was no difficulty on this account. I now began to picture to myself the life I should   832    THE OLD STOXE MANSION. lead. In imagination, I drew a picture of the house and its surroundings. It was an old stone dwelling, probably with a roof green with moss, standing in some low bit of ground, near the river, where the early German settlers always located their habitations, partly to secure a more abundant supply of water, partly because of the richer soil in the bottoms. It had, near it, a stone barn, a huge edifice, more than four times as large as itself, bursting with abundant crops. Close by was a little, low, white-washed spring-house, with a solitary willow drooping over it. There might be a small garden in front of the house, with a few common flowers; but this was all; and even this was doubtful. About the whole place there was an air of thrift; but nothing picturesque or refined. Every thing was reduced to the level of the plainest common-place. I felt that, in such a heusehold, my soul would starve. Yet what else could I do? I must feed my immortal part on these dry husks as well as I could, or perish literally for want of mere physical food. Then I began to think of the mother. Perhaps here there would be some alleviation. Perhaps God, in afflicting her children, had done it to soften and refine her. Sorrow, with natures that have any latent good in them, does this. I was willing to be- lieve it of her. I imagined her a little, thin, worn, patient woman, gray before her time, knitting all   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      333 day long, when not otherwise occupied, her eyes. filling with quiet tears as she looked at her helpless innocents. I saw her start, with nervous terror, at the rude voice and loud step of her husband. In such a family, I said to myself, I will die by inches. For the very tax on my sympathies, created by the poor children and their mother, will wear me out all the faster. There will be no relief from any quarter. No book will ever reach me in this out of the way abode. The very name of the place, Hemlock Farm, so full of sombre and funereal associations, seemed to be a presentiment of my fate. I should live in an atmosphere of slow poison, where every intellectual faculty, every fine perception, would wither and perish. Surrounded by coarse associations, cut off from all revivifying sympathy, I would grow coarse myself in time. Perhaps, too, there might be other things, rude sons, vulgar farm hands, with whom I would be compelled to associate, and whose brutal- ities or insolence I would be forced to endure; for in such households all alike ate at the same table, as I well knew, and lived in the common sitting-room, so that companionship was inevitable. As this pic- ture rose before me, I half resolved to abandon my expedition. But a thought of my empty purse, and of the terrible winter approaching, silenced my re. pugnance.   834    THE OLD STONE MANSION. "It will not be for long," I said. "I am no more the destined bride of a man of talent and wealth; no more flushed with health, or intoxicated with spirits. This shortness of breath; this little hacking cough; these pains in the chest, are not merely the remnants of the fever. Do I not know their meaning? And it is well." We were, at that moment, passing one of those antique church edifices, standing in the midst of a neglected grave-yard, which tell of the vicinity of a village. I thought that, in less than a year, I should be lying in just such a place, alone and forgotten, without a headstone to mark the spot, with no one even to come and lay a flower on the sod. My words, "It is well," were the response to this thought. Suddenly the train stopped, and the conductor threw open the door, crying, "Poplar Station." I rose mechanically. Faint and weak, I staggered along, catching by the seats as I went. The ex- citement of the morning had now partly subsided, and I began to- realize how weak I was, and how unfit to be out of my room. The conductor politely assisted me to descend. As soon as I touched the ground, he waved his hand to the engineer, caught at the rail as the train began to move; and I was left alone.   CHAPTER   XXXIII. AT HEMLOCK FARM. I WAs left alone. There was a deep cutting just before me, and not a house in sight. A path led up the bank; and this I took. It conducted me to a traveled highway, from which I could see, at a little distance, a road-side tavern. It was one of those so common in Pennsylvania; a low, rambling stone inn, with a huge horse-trough in front, where a team of Conestoga horses was, at this instant, leisurely drinking, As no other house was in sight, and it was neces. sary to get some directions, I put on a bold front and walked forward. The teamster stared rudely as I came up, and the ostler winked to a half-drunken vagabond in rags, who stood, with his hand in his pockets, idly watching my approach. I faltered out, as composedly as I could, my re- quest, addressing myself to the teamster as the least repulsive of the three. "Nein," he said, shaking his head. I repeated the question. "Pray, sir, can you direct me to Hemlock Farm?1 For I did not under- stand him. (3.35)   336    THE OLD STONE MANSION. "Neinl " he answered again, staring at me vacantly, but with a good-humored look. I now turned to the ostler. "Is it Hemlock farrum yer asking after?" he said, scratching his head of shock hair: and swearing a favorite Celtic oath, he told me " he'd nivir heard of such a place." The half drunken vagabond now approached. As I saw him come up, I looked imploringly toward the inn door, in hopes some female, or at least the landlord, would make his appearance. But not a soul was in sight. The whole place, with the exception of these three and the horses drinking at the trough, seemed to have been asleep for ages. It was one of those warm, October days, which temporarily recall the summer, when a drowsy haze vails . the distant landscape, and when, in silent afternoons in the country, the voice may be heard for a mile. A hound lay asleep, in the sunshine, at the end of the porch, his nose buried between his paws. The pigeons were ranged, like statues, along the eaves of the barn. There was not a sound, except that of the water running from the trough and the noise of the horses as they drank. "P'raps I can direct the young lady," said the in- ebriate, speaking with a hiccup, but making a not ungraceful bow; and I saw at once that he-was that most pitiable of all objects, an educated man who   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     8$37 had become a common sot. "Hemlock Farm, did you say? That's it, yonder." He pointed, as he spoke; to a peculiarly shaped hill, at the distance of two miles or more, a long, ridgy, precipitous hill, clothed with dark-green hem- locks, and washed, at its base, by the river. The mellow afternoon sun, glittering on the water at its foot, and reflected from a white bridge that crossed at the hither end of the hill, brought the sombre evergreens out into bold relief, and transfigured the whole scene. No house, however, was visible. Per. haps it was concealed, I thought, by the shoulder of a mountain, in shape like a crouching lion, which soaring to the height of a thousand feet or more, in. truded its rugged outline between me and the approach to the hill. "Do you see that hill?" said- my guide, stamfiiet- ingly, steadying himself by the pump. "The one just past the South Mountain--it's the only one of that shape in the county- and you can't miss -it-. well," draw-ig out the words slowly, "that's Hem. lock Farm." "Thank you, stit," said t, hurriedly, glad to es. cape; and I nmoved oh. But I was stopped, immedi. ately, by the gptikee, who laid- his hand familiarly on my shoulder, u "You needn't b 80o seared, Miss," he paid, surlily, 21   338    THE OLD STONE MANSION           1 as I shrank away, while the ostler laughed outright, and the teamster stood with a grin on his face. "I'm a gentleman, I am, though you may see my coat's the worse for wear. I've studied at the University -sity-I have. You were going without knowing how to get to Hemlock Farm. You must take the left-hand road at the red barn, a quarter of a mile further on, and so go down to the river: then keep up stream, till you come to the bridge; cross that, and you're at Hemlock Farm." I hardly waited for him to finish. I had taken good care to keep out of the reach of his arm this time, and now walked away as fast as I could. But I had not gone far, before I heard the speaker mut- tering, with many oaths, something about my not being a lady after all, or I would have given him something to drink: and at this I hurried on the faster. The way proved longer than I had supposed. Be. tween my fatigue, my weakness, and my anxiety, the miles lengthened out interminably. The sun was low in the western heavens, when I reached the bridge. Now, for the first time, I began to think what I should do, if my application failed. Where could I spend the night? The nearest town was several miles distant, so that, in my present ex- hausted condition, it would be impossible for me to   THE OLD STONE MANSION,     839 walk there before dark. I shuddered when I thought of being out, perhaps all night, on these lonely moun. tain roads.  Before crossing the bridge, I sat down, for a mo- ment, on a boulder, partly to rest, partly to reflect on this new emergency. Just above, the river made a bold, semicircular sweep. A boatman's horn filled the air with softened music. Hemlock Hill, on the opposite side, rose precipitous and picturesque, glow- ing in the golden radiance. The whole scene was typical of an indescribable peace. Oh! how I longed, at that moment, to lie down, where I sat, amid these calm surroundings, and sink to rest forever. I rose at last, wearily. I began to feel a presenti- ment that I should not succeed. Yet I tried, in de- fiance of this, to buoy myself up with hope. I said, again and again, they will at least ask me to stay all night. Then I remembered, that, if they should not, I was wasting precious moments. I dragged my- self down the descent. My fears increased as I went, so that I almost ran at last. I arrived so exhausted and breathless at the toll- gate, that the keeper looked at me with surprise, a surprise which was not diminished when I asked him if this was Hemlock Farm  before me. Ob- serving he stared at me dubiously, I told him my errand. "You are the school marm, then," he said, regard-   810    THE OLD STONE MANSION. ing me with uplifted eyebrows. "Humphl! Well, that's the place." I had no doubt that my wearied look and travel. soiled dress somewhat detracted from my character, and I explained, in this' way, the questionable air with which he kept staring at me, while he pointed across the river. I colored with embarrassment, not unmixed with anger, drawing down my vail again, which I had thrown up for air as I walked. "What?"I said. "That house ahead? Do you know if any body is at home?" It was a small farm-house, with more pretensions to elegance than I had seen in this region; and my heart bounded with delight, for the household, which could surround itself with such a pretty flower-garden,. must, I thought, have some refine- ment. "No," he said, gruffly, and coolly turning on his heel to go in, offended, I suppose, by my putting down my vail, "that isn't the place at all, You must pass that house, and taking the road up the river, go in at a gate you'll find there, about a hun- dred and fifty yards further on. The place you're after is up the hill." My heart fell. With a sigh I turned away. As I passed the gate of the pretty farm-house, a sweet voice was heard singing, within. It was a mother warbling a lullaby over her child. -The memory of   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     341 my own happy infancy rushed back to me. I recol. lected, as vividly as if it had happened but yester- day, my mother leaning over my cradle, while she rocked it and sang that very lullaby. It seemed to me a dream of heaven, in some former state of ex- istence, from which endless ages now separated me, a Paradise of peace and love gone forever. And the tears gushed to my eyes as I thought this. I staggered on. The road began to ascend slowly, terraced along the river-side. At the end of what seemed the little farm, I came to a dense wood of evergreens, the beginning of those which covered the sides and top of the hill. Suddenly, when I had almost passed it, I saw a plain, unpreteniding gate. This, I knew, must be the one to which I had been directed; and I turned in. It was like passing into a cool cave out of a hot noonday. The trees met overhead, so that not a ray of sunshine penetrated to the avenue, which was filled with a subdued light. Underneath, the ground was carpeted with the brown tassels of the pines, that crackled under the foot. An aromatic fragrance filled the air. The road began immediately to wind up the hill, disclosing dim woodland vistas at every turn. After I had walked perhaps the eighth of a mile, I suddenly emerged from the wood; and lo, what a, prospect I Before me, and separated from me only   342    'THE OLD STONE MANSION. by an intervening valley, was the mountain, who(se side profile had concealed Hemlock Farm from me, when I had stopped at the tavern; but now the front of the mountain rose rounded and wooded, a perfect cone. This formed the right hand setting of the picture. To the left, on the other side of the river, was another mountain, a long, bleak, bare stretch of rock, framing-in the landscape on that side. Be- tween these, stretching far away to the horizon, and widening as it went, the river meandering in the middle ground, was an undulating country, covered with alternate farms and woodlands, and diversified with villages. Away and away, following the glit- tering water, my eye traversed, as if fascinated, over the vast landscape, till it lost itself in the purple haze that hung around a ridge of hills, miles and miles distant. The prospect burst on me so unex- pectedly, every thing was so different from what I had looked for, that I stopped, for some time, breath- less with surprise. Then I turned to look for the house, which, up to this time, I had not'seen. It stood almost directly in front, a little to the right, about five hundred feet off, on a grassy terrace, below which swept the road. The dwelling itself was comparatively small; but in no sense could it be called a farm-house. It was a quaint, picturesque mansion, with a deep bay win- dow looking down into the valley, and numerousL   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     848 high-pointed gables. Vines gambolled over the bal- ustrades, ran up the gray walls, twined lovingly about the diamond-paned 'casements, and nestled under the eaves. The principal front seemed to. look my way, for there was a balcony before it, ex- tending its whole length; and this balcony led into a spacious garden, not a stiff, formal one, such as city horticulturists are so fond of, but with evergreens scattered about, and grassy slopes, and rose-bushes here and there, giving it a wild, half-forest grace, like a garden in the Arabian Nights. The side of the house which looked down toward the valley, commanded a gently sloping lawn, many acres in extent, which swept almost to the foot of the hill. The quiet and repose of the place stole over my senses like a subtle perfume. "Ah!"I said to my- self, "if I can only find a refuge here, during the few months I have to live." But my emotions of hope and delight were soon succeeded by others. What chance had I, without a solitary recommendation, coming afoot, my travel- soiled appearance alone sufficient to create prejudices against me, to obtain employment here? For every thing about the spot betokened the most fastidious taste. The mistress of such a Paradise, I said to my- self, is not like the farmer's wife I have been pictur- ing: she will have nothing about her which is not in unison with the spot. She will not tolerate this   344,    THE OLD STONE MANSION. haggard face for a minute. One look at me will be enough to fill her with disgust. It was with a faint heart, therefore, that I resumed my way. But having come so far, I determined to go through with it, even to enduring the startled glance and supercilious dismissal of the fine lady, who had never, perhaps, been so near a starving fellow-woman, I said, nor ever would -be again. My hand trembled, nevertheless, as I lifted the knocker. A man-servant, neatly dressed in black, opened the door-immediately. He had a pleasant, ruddy face, and a quiet and deferential manner, which pare tially reassured me. "Will you say that a young woman has called to see about the governess' place?"I said. "Yes 1 ma'am, walk in 1" was the answer, and, with a reassuring smile, he ushered me into the parlor. The parlor was a large and elegant apartment, hung round with choice engravings after Landseer, De la Roche, Airy Shaffer, and other first-class modern artists. A statuette, here and there, on a bracket; a rich silver salver, with pitcher and flagons, on a console; luxurious chairs scattered about; a table covered with new books and pamph- lets; these were the other most salient objects in thB room. At one end -was a deep bay window. As I crossed the floor, I saw there was a mirror, over the   THE -OLD STONE  MANSION.    345 nmantle-plece, reaching to the ceiling; and before this I paused a moment. I did-it unconsciously. I suppose no woman, at any time, much less when she is about to receive a stranger, ever passes a mirror without glancing at her face. It is a habit we acquire early, and of which we never entirely get rid. On that day, cer- tainly, not a particle of personal vanity entered-into the feeling, which caused me to stop before that mir- ror. I had but one thought, which was to provide for myself, if possible, a respectable home, where, for the little time which remained to me, I might earn my livelihood in the humblest way. I hadi consciously, but a single emotion, which was an utter, utter despair, with not a ray of hope to light it up. Once, and once only, as I crossed the room, and its elegance and luxury struck me anew, I said to myself again, '( Oh t if I could only find a haven here for the few short months I shall live"But I smiled immediately, to myself, at the idea; it was too wild to entertain. I started back at sight of myself. Haggard and wan, I had felt that I was; but the reality far ex. ceeded my expectations. If I had ever had any beauty, as I had once been told, 'it was gone now. I recalled, by some strange association, the fact that on the night of Georgiana's birthday ball, I had paused an instant in front of the mirror, before I de.   34B    THE OLD STONE MANSION.     . scended, and, intoxicated by the atmosphere of love and flattery in which I had been living, had said to myself that I really believed I was beautiful. The contrast between my face then as I remembered it, and now, was that of two lives, as wide asunder as eternity, and which never, never could be reunited. I was no more the same being than if I had been born in a different century. Vast gulfs, fathomless abVsses, lay between what I was now and had been then. My lip began to tremble. The thought of the past was too much for me. I turned from the mirror, and stepped hastily to the bay window, to shake off these emotions by looking at the unrivalled land- scape, for Nature always soothed me like a friend or a mother.  It had its effect. I grew composed again. And now I bethought me how I should get over the awk- wardness of an introduction. The strange manner in which I had come, my total want of recommenda. tions, struck me now more than they had even at my entrance. The opening and shutting of a distant door, as if some one was approaching, told me to be ready: and nervous and excited, my heart beating fast, I awaited the interview. At that moment, it occurred to me that the best way to open the conversation, would be to present the paper, containing the advertisement, as a sort of letter of introduction. Fortunately, I had marked   THE OLD STONE MANSION;     347 the advertisement around with ink, and hastily Fumbling for the journal in my pocket, I folded it, with trembling hands, so as to bring the advertise- ment outward, and holding it ready, awaited the coming footsteps. Awaited them, did I say? They were now near enough to be distinctly audible. Instead of being those of a woman, they were the footsteps of a man, and something in them struck a cold chill to my heart, and made my knees sink under me. For one breathless, agonizing second of time, I doubted; but at the next footfall I prayed that the floor might open beneath me, and I sink forever from sight. In another moment, the door opened, and Mr. Talbot stood before me. Yes, Mr. Talbot stood before me. There was the same commanding form, the- same majestic brow, the - same eagle eye. Time had passed differently with him from what it had with me. That proud, high air of manhood, defiant of all obstacle, as if the possessor exulted in having difficulties to overcome, that union of physical, intellectual and moral power, which had always been so pre-eminently his, was still there, only more cdeveloped, more self-centred than ever, For an instant, he did not see, in the twilight of the room, where his visitor was. But at last his eye, that lightning eye, fell upon me.   348     THE OLD STONE MANSION. I withered beneath it. I recalled how we had last parted; how that he was now married; how that he would despise me, more than ever, for what would seem to him an unmaidenly visit. It appeared to me, that, as he recognized his visitor, scorn and loathing succeeded each other in his face. The room swam around. I reeled, clutched at the air, and sank to the floor. CHAPTER XXXTV. PEACE AND REST. I Do not know how long I was insensible. When, at last, I faintly opened my eyes, I was still com- paratively unconscious, and neither realized immedi- ately where I was, nor the indelicacy of my situation. For I was dizzy with long-forgotten bliss, as, looking up, I saw Mr. Talbot's face bending anxiously over me, felt his arm under me, and heard him whisper, "Darling, have I found you?"I had a dim recol- lection, also, that it was his eager kisses which had woke me to life again. Do not censure me, that, for an instant, I gave myself up to this delicious dream. That, as memory returned, I almost wished it had never come back,   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     849: for then, in happy ignorance, I might still have lain in those arms and forgot the solemn vows that sepa- rated us forever. With burning blushes, however, I struggled away from his embrace, and attempted to rise feebly to my feet; for I had been lying on a sofa, with my head pillowed against his breast, "Oh!" he said pleadingly, holding me fast, "you are not angry with me still. Margaret, dear Marga- ret, we can yet be happy." Was he mad? Or did he meditate toward me the deepest insult which a man can inflict on a helpless woman? I made a new effort to extricate myself, but he held me tight. "You do not mean it," he said. "Heaven has not sent you here, that we should be parted again." There was now no mistaking his words. Was this the man of whom I had made a hero to myself? Whom I had secretly worshiped as the best and noblest of his sex? Indignation gave me strength. "Sir," I said, "unhand me, or I will call Mvrs. Talbot." I rose, as I spoke, and stood before him, my eyes flashing, my bosom heaving with anger. "Mrs. Talbot!" he answered, in surprise. "Yes! your wife." "My wife!" The astonishment with which he repeated these   850    THE OLD STONE MANSION. words convinced me that I had been deceived. It was now my turn to be bewildered. Could it be possible that he was still free, that he had forgiven me, that he loved me as much as ever? All this his lan- guage and manner implied. I began to tremble from excess of joy. "What a villain you must have thought me," he said. "I never could have married any one but you. Who has been defaming me?" He had drawn me to him again; and now I did not resist. My head sank upon his shoulder, my face was buried on his broad chest. I felt that, come what might, I had a refuge there. Oh I after my many vicissitudes, how sweet to have peace and rest at last. I no longer thought of any fancied sacrifice of independence, any abnegation of indi- viduality. Friend, lover, husband, master-what pre- cious words I I was ready to lay down my life for him. With silent tears of thanksgiving, I mentally said, "Where thou goest, I will go; thy people shall be my people; and thy God, my God." "How did you hear I was married?" he said again. "Who was it to?" I answered, but without looking up, "I read it in the papers. It was to Miss Beverley." "Miss Beverley I see it all now. She. married my cousin, who has the same Christian name and   THE OLD STONE MANSION;     3 8 surname as myself. But I thought you knew I had such a cousin." I said I had never heard this. "I was not even present at the wedding," he added. "I have been in your city but twice since last fall. I found its reminiscences too painful to go again. But yesterday I heard what has brought me here on my way to your uncle's." I looked up in surprise. Why should he come here before going to the city? And what connece tion was there between him and this place? I re" collected also what had brought me here. Instinct- ively I withdrew from him. "And your presence," he said, "proves what I heard was correct. For nothing but your uncle's failure, I am sure, would have made him consent to your going out as governess." "Whose house am I in?"I said. - What do you mean by my uncle's failure?" "Whose house are you in? My sister's, of course. My widowed sister, for whose two children she is seeking a governess. She is out driving, but will soon be back, and I came to apologize for her, little thinking of meeting you. What do I mean by your uncle's failure? Surely you have left him only be- ause he is hopelessly bankrupt, his great suga r mo- nopoly having failed." I was in amaze. He interpreted my looks.   852    THE OLD STONE MANLSION. 'What mystery is here?" he cried. "Have you not come from Mr. Elliott's?" "I have not seen my uncle or aunt for months." "For months!" "Not since last fall!" "Why did you leave them?" "They turned me out of doors." "Turned you out of doors 1" "And I have been supporting myself Since in the best way I could. I came here, as you have guessed, to get a situation as governess." "Governess!" he cried. "It is no longer a ques- tion of governesses. What a monster I have beenI Can you forgive me?" "I am the one to ask for forgiveness," I said. "You insisted only on what you had a right to. I knew it, but was too proud to admit it." "And the more I have reflected on your motives- for standing by Georgiana, the nobler has your char. acter appeared. When I heard of your uncle's fail. ure, I came at once to my sister, to get her to accompany me to your city, in order that she might intercede for me. Oh, I might have known that the failure of your uncle merely could not have shat- tered you so." I gave him, in as few words as possible, an out- line of my story. He interrupted me continually   THE -OLD STONE MANSION.    353 with exclamations of surprise, indignation, and self- reproach. "When you saw me driving Miss Beverley out," he said, "I had come on to make her acquaintance. I would have called on you then, but had doubts whether I would be admitted." "You shall be my guide, my master henceforth," I whispered, looking up into his face. "I have never been happy since we parted." A carriage was now heard driving up the road. I started from his side. "That is my sister," he said. "Will you excuse me, while I go and hand her out?" He did not wait for an answer. How I thanked him, in my secret heart, for this thoughtful tact, which thus, gave me an opportunity to rally my be- wildered thoughts and prepare for this interview. It was twilight when his sister entered, so that my -embarrassment was partially concealed. Mr. Talbot had evidently explained my story to her. She came up, kissed me, and took me to her heart at once, as if I had been a younger sister. By her considerate kindness, I was soon placed compara- tively at ease. . Seated by her on the sofa, my hand in hers, I felt almost at home. In appearance, she was a feminine likeness of her brother, and still beautiful, though a widow. 22   854    THE OLD"STONE MANSION. When she found that I had recovered somewhat from my confusion, she rose, still holding me by the hand. "There now, Talbot, go away," she said, "we'll see you by-and-by at the tea-table; but meanwhile Margaret must come with me, for I have the child- ren to show her, little dears, besides a thousand other things." Speaking thus, she carried me into a charming chamber, which was fragrant with flowers, and which overlooked the wide valley that was now, however, darkening with the shades of twilight. Here, after busying herself about for a while, in order, as she said, to make things more comfortable, she left me t)  to myself, promising to summon me in about an hour or so. The first thing I did, when the door closed behind her, was to give way to a hearty fit of crying. Then I washed my eyes, smoothed my hair, and had just finished rearranging my dress, when I heard a light tap at the door. It was my hostess with her two children, bright, demonstrative little girls, who made friends with me immediately: and one of whom strikingly reminded me of Rosalie. In five min- utes I was as much at home with this darling as if I had known her all my life. "Don't you think Hemlock Farm picturesque?"   TtE OLD STONE MANSION.     3S5 the mother said. "We consider the view down the valley very fine: you must look at it from your window to-morrow at sunrise. The place is the old homestead, you know; but Talbot lent it to me, when I and these little ones were-left alone." Here her voice quivered for an instant. But directly she went on. "My affairs are now settled, and after this W inter we shall live in the city, and Talbot will take the old homestead back. It has always been his favorite summer resort. But there is the tea. bell. Are you able to go down, do you think? If you think you are not, I will have a cup of tea sent up here; you look really too fatigued for us to insist on your making your appearance. But Tal- bot will go insane," she added, laughingly, " if you don't. He's been raving already, down stairs, about his behavior to you, which I told him was shocking, and such as you were only too amiable in forgiving. It would do good, I said, for one who was so dread- fully self-conceited to-suffer a little. But I see you don't believe him to be conceited. Well, neither do I, in general, my dear; but you know  we mustn't let him think so." Directly that we had repaired to the parlor, after tea was over, Mrs. Gordon declared that I was too exhausted to remain up any longer; that, as my hostess, she was answerable for my health; that I   8356    THE OLD STONE MANSION. must go to bed directly; and that as for Talbot, he might smoke a cigar, or drown himself, she didn't care a fig which, but he shouldn't speak another word to her or her guest to-night." With these words she carried me away. It was not till I was left alone, that I became con. scious how much I had been indebted to excite- ment for the strength to keep up at all. But there is no medicine in the pharmacopoeia like happiness. Gradually I sank into a sweet sleep, which no evil dreams disturbed. The morning sun, shining in at my window, roused me at last. No one, however, seemed to be stirring, for it was still early. Going to the casement to close the shutters, I was arrested by the scene before me. A silver mist filled the valley like a vast ocean, concealing the lower grounds entirely, except where a wooded knoll rose above it like a green island, and washing the sides of the hills, which swept, in a gigantic amphitheatre, around the entire horizon. Here and there the sun- light penetrated into the mist, breaking it up into what seemed caves and abysses of frosted snow. "And is this really to be my home?"I said to myself. I could hardly realize it. I retired to my pillow, with a heart full of gratitude, and slept again till quite late in the morning. "I hope you haven't kept breakfast waiting for   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     357 me," I said, when I had made my hasty toilet, and, leaving my room, had received the greetings of Mrs. Gordon. "Is it really ten o'clock?"I said, glanc- ing at the French clock on the parlor mantel-piece. "Why didn't you call me?" "I doubt whether you ought to have been suf- fered to get up at all to-day," answered Mrs. Gordon, welcoming me with a kiss. "But Talbot here has to go to the city, and would have died, I believe, if he couldn't have seen you before he left. He has been saying, for the last three hours, that he feared you were sick; and it was as much as I could do to prevent his committing suicide in his remorse. But here he, comes, the most woe-begone man I ever saw." Before Mr. Talbot left that day, he had extorted a promise from me that, on his return, I would be- come his- wife. "I have nothing to bring you," I said, "but my- self; ifTyou still claim me, I am yours." What took him so urgently to the city, I did not inquire; but I learned afterward, as the reader will hear. Had I known at the time, I should have loved him even better, if that was possible.   CHAPTER XXXV. FAREWELL. IN a few days Mr. Talbot came back. He brought with him a plain gold ring, which I have worn ever since, and which, I trust, will be buried with me. For we were married, as had been prearranged, the tnorning of his return. The ceremony was a quiet one. His sister and I drove into the neighbor- ing county town, and met him at the church-door; the minister of God pronounced the nuptial bene- diction; and then we returned together to Hemlock Farm. Mr. Talbot had asked if I would choose to travel for awhile. But I preferred the quiet of the country, and the sacred privacy of what was soon to be my own home. Mrs. Gordon also put her veto authoritatively upon it. In her way, she was prettily dogmatic. "Travel!" she exclaimed. "' Mar- garet is just recovered, and here you would hurry her off, before she is strong enough to bear it, to visit Niagara and a dozen other fashionable sights, just as if she was a silly school-girl who wanted to parade her bridal bonnet before all the world. She is too much in love, perhaps, to say no; but I shall (358)   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     359 say it for her. Besides, you don't yourself wish her to accept your offer." I laughed. "Not so fast," I cried, "for I cer- tainly shall say no, even if it is the last time I ever say it."7 "And I am glad to hear you say it," was Mr. Talbot's reply. "I felt sure you would." When the honeymoon was over, we went to the city. My first call was at my uncle's. Mr. Talbot had been to see the Elliotts during his visit to town, and had brought back a confirmation of the disas- trous reports we had heard. "It is even a more complete wreck than I had supposed," he said. "Not a cent will be left. As for your uncle, I don't think he will live a year; but your aunt seems made of tougher stuff. It would be a pity to leave Ro- salie under such influences. Wouldn't you like to take her? The house and furniture by this time are -under execution, I suppose, so that a home for Rosalie will have to be sought somewhere." Ah, how could I thank him for this generous pro- posal, which, disguised as it was, I knew had been dictated solely from a wish to please me. But even yet I did not know his noble heart. I never shall know it entirely, for every year makes new revela- tions. Daily I thank the great Giver of all good for having blessed me with such a husband. We   found both my uncle and aunt at home.   360    THE -OLD STONE- MANSION. The former was completely broken down at sight of me. He wept on my shoulder like a child. Yet it was less his loss of fortune that he spoke of, than his having let Georgiana die unforgiven. The most selfish of men have some latent religion in them. What there was in -my uncle was brought out now. He regarded his ruin as the punishment for his cruelty to his daughter. It was not a very lofty idea of religion, which could bring him no further than this; but it was better than none. "You say the dear girl blessed me as she was dying," he cried, in the intervals of self-reproach. "Ah, shb was always gentle, she always loved her old father. If I had been more relenting, she might now have been alive. But I deserve my fate. I had no pity on her. And I was harsh to you also, Maggy. God bless you for being so kind to my lost angel l" I found my aunt in a very different mood. She could think of little but the loss of fortune and po. sition. She talked, indeed, of Georgiana; but it was plain she had never overlooked the marriage with Despencer. Hers was one of those hard, cold na- tures, that never forgive or forget. "I told Mr. Elliott how it would be," she said, querulously, as she rocked herself in her chair. "If he had taken my advice, he wouldn't have touched that sugar speculation. It's hard that, in my old   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     861 age, I should be made poor. All my own money, too, is gone with the rest. People not half as good as I am ride in their carriages, while I have to give mine up." It was a pitiable sight, and we turned from it. I asked for Rosalie. She was up stairs, the mother - said, with the nurse. "I don't know what I shall do," she added, as this new grief recurred to her. "Mr. Elliott says we can't afford to keep a nurse, and I'm sure I can't be always watching the child. If it had been my own fault, I wouldn't have cared; but I told him if- he kept on speculating it would ruin him." And so she went on, bewailing her fate, and accusing her husband, though, as, Lwell knew, if he had taken her advice in business, he would have been ruined long before. Rosalie sprang into my arms the moment I entered. "My Maggy," she cried, "my Maggy has come back. Ohl nurse, come speak t'o her." But the nurse, the same creature who had been so rude to me in the public square, had sufficient sense of shame to leave the room as soon as she saw who Rosalie's visitor was, nor did I ever behold her again, exceptlonce, when she came abjectly to me to solicit being retained; with what success the reader may imagine, who has been privy to her baseness and treachery. It was not difficult to persuade Rosalie to live   862    THE OLD STONE MANSION'. with me. She was wild with delight, when I made the suggestion to her, which I did on- the following day, as soon as I had obtained the consent of her parents. This consent, on the part of the mother, was readily given; but with the father we experienced more difficulty than I had expected. "It is very hard," he said, chokingly, " to give up the dear child: the hardest of all. But I know it is for the best. I'm a good-for-nothing old hulk now, and it's very kind of you to make the offer. I don't deserve it. I don't deserve it. God bless you for it!"And he went off, gradually, into feeble tears, a complete wreck, as he had said, of himself. Mr. Talbot offered his assistance to extricate my uncle from his difficulties, and it was cheerfully accepted. But as my husband had feared, the ruin was beyond remedy. My uncle had invested, not only all he was worth, in his unfortunate specula- tion, but every thing he could borrow: and now that sugar had fallen in price, and that securities of every description were depreciated, he was defioient for more than a quarter of a million. His creditors, too, would listen to no appeals. He had been a hard man in his days of-prosperity, and not a voice was now raised in his behalf. "Sir," said the principal creditor, an irascible but honest old merchant, to Mr. Talbot, "I honor your generosity in coming forward, in this way, in favor of Mr. Elliott, but it will be   THE OLD STONE M-AN-SION.     8(6 of no use. He deserves his fate. Sir, it is robbery, when a man speculates, as Mr. Elliott did, on other people's money. If the law permitted me, as it ought to, I would send him to the penitentiary. You can't have my influence, sir. On the contrary, I shall exert all I have against your client, He's a rascal, sir. Good-morning, sir." This was the general verdict of the commercial world. And yet many others, who had acted quite as indefensibly, and who were swept away also in the crisis, were excused at the bar of public opinion; but they had been liberal in their prosperity, and hence- the difference of their treatment. I believe this broke my uncle's heart. He barely survived a year. My aunt, however, still lives. Mr. Talbot has settled an annuity on her, sufficient for her respect- able maintenance. She visits the Bluffs now every season, and boards at a fashionable house in the city in winter. A few of her old acquaintances call on her occasionally, but only a few, and these the less select. The D'Alencons and Perts, to say nothing of the Frigids, pass her with an unconscious stare, as if they had- never even heard of such a person. She talks incessantly, I am told, of her niece., "whom  I brought up and who married the rich Mr. Talbot." My second visit, after I came to the city, was to the Whartons. I wenqt there alone. Mrs, Wharto.   364    THE OLD STONE MANSION. met me at the door, in quite a flutter of spirits, cry- ing: "Gracious me! if it isn't Miss Margaret, or as I must say now, I suppose, Mrs. Talbot. Walk in, walk in; you're not too proud, I know, to take a seat in the sitting-room." -But she dusted about ener- getically, as she talked, though every thing was as clean and neat as possible. "How well you are look- ing. And what a fine, noble-hearted husband you have. He came here, two days after you went away, the Lord bless him for it! and we owe every thing we have to him--" "Came here?" said I, surprised; for I had never heard my husband mention the Whartons. "To be sure he came here. Didn't you know it? Now surely? Oh! then you don't know what a real, true gentleman you've got for a husband. He'd heard of us from you, he said, and so told us you were at his sister's, and safe there, and getting well fast. We'd been very uncomfortable about you be- fore that. But this wasn't all. He took my husband into the store, said he was a lawyer, and offered to do any thing he could for him. Lawyers, he said, could sometimes see a way out of troubles, when the people who had the troubles couldn't. So my hus- band up and told him all. And the long and short of it was, Miss, no I Mrs. Talbot, that, in three or four days, he had seen all the creditors and got them to agree to a compromise, which sets father on his feet   THE OLD STONE MANSION.     865 again, and will keep us in the dear old house." -And here she fairly broke down and burst into tears. When she had recovered, she resumed her ex- planation. "There was one of the creditors, whom father owed a great deal to, and it was this one, it seems, who had set all the rest against him. Mr. Talbot knew this creditor well, and got him to change his mind, so that, from opposing father, he took his side. And that's the way it was brought about." After she had answered my inquiries about the family, she said, "And now I must tell you about Dr. Gardiner. You never saw a man look more down than he di;d, when he came back and found you gone. I was very angry with you myself; you see I'm not ashamed to tell you the truth; but when he heard me talking against you, he told me, saying something about a letter he had been reading, that I musn't talk in that way; that you wasn't a bit to blame; and that he Lonored you all the more for what you'd done. I couldn't make out, then, what he meant; but when Mr. Talbot came, I guessed it all." Since then I have myself seen Dr. Gardiner. In Fact he often visits us, and is quite a favorite with ny husband. He has even been to Hemlock Farm, and not unaccompanied, for, after some years, he ....   866    THE OLD STONE MANSION. married. Mrs. Gardiner, who is one of my dearest friends, is said to look like me. I have reason to believe that she is not ignorant of -her husband's past, though the subject is one that has never been mentioned between us. Mr. Talbot is one of those who declares she might have been my sister, the resemblance is so strong. He often says jestingly, "When I am left a widower, I shall marry Mrs. Gar- diner, that is if the doctor will be so obliging as to drop off in time." Rosalie has now more than one playmate. She is no longer a child; indeed, we shall soon have to think of her coming out; and she is more than a head taller than any of her cousins. We spend our winters in the city, and our summers at Hemlock Farm. My husband has been called, more than once, to take part in the councils of his State and nation; but he always finds a few months of leisure for our mountain home. The children, who have grown around us, love the old place as much as their parents do. We are a happy family, especially when Mr. Talbot's sister, with her two girls, joins us, as she does, for a few weeks, every summer. Despencer never reappeared in the United States. After the discovery of the gold mines in California, a man, answering to his description, was lynched on the Sacramento for stealing another miner's claim;   THE OLD STONE MANSION.      867 but we were never positive that this was Georgiana's husband. Thus, on everybody, except myself, who had lived in the old stone mansion, since the night of the first awful tragedy there, the parricidal curse seems to have fallen; for all appear to have perished prema- turely. The mansion itself is now a roofless ruin, through whose open casements the winds and rain beat, and whose very stones are slimy with damp and decay. But the sombre pines still stand, like mourners, about'it; and as they sob and groan in the winter blasts, give color to the popular tradition, now more positive than ever, that the place is haunted. THE END.   T. B. PETERSON'S LIST OF PUBLICATIONSS the Books in this Catalogue with be found to be the very Best and Ltate Publications by the most popular and celebrated writers in the world. They are also the most readable and entertaining Books, and are printed for the "Million," at very cheap rates, and copies of all or any of them will be sent by Mail, free of postage, to any person, on receipt o' the advertised price. They are suitable for the firlor, Library, Sitting Room, Railroad, Steamboat, or Chamber Reading AND ARE PUBLISHED AND FOR SALE BY T. B. PETERSON, No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. b&- Booksellers, and all others, will be supplied at very Low Rates. -I      MRS SOUTHWORTHS'     . Vivia ; or, The Secret of Power,  -  - 1 00 India. The Pearl of Pearl River, - -1 00 The Missing Bride, -1 00 The Lost Ileiress, -1 00 Deserted Wife, -  - 1 00 Wife's Victory. - - 1 00 Curse of lifton,  - 1 00 Discarded Daughter, -1 00 Retribution,  -   1 00 Initials, -   .. 1 e0 Rate Aylesford,    1 00 Mabel,  -  -  - 1 00 Ihe above are also published in cloth, price $1.25 each. MRS. REljl'TZ'S WORKS. The Planter' Northern Bride, -  -  - 1 00 Linda,  -  -  .  00 Robert Graham,   -  I 00 Courtsh ip atl Marrlafe I 00 Reua; or the Snow Bird 1 00 Marcus Warland,    1 00 Love after Marriage,  1 00 Eoliue,  -  -    00 The Banished Son,   1 00 Helen and Arthur,   1 00 Aunt Patty's Scrap Bag, 1 00 The above are also published in cloth, price $1.2.5 each. ELLEN    PICgF RTWNG'S. Orphan Niece.   * - 25 Kate Walsingham, -   25 Poor Cousin.    a . 25 Kllen Wareham,     25 Who Shall be Heir t . 25 Secret Foe,      25 txpecnt,    - ,   25-  Frtrht,  -  .    25 tui'et t1 usband -   25 Nan Darrell,    -  25 Prince aud Ped'ai,  25 4 Merchant'P Daughter,  25 1 The Squire,    -  25  Agans   erle,  .  25  T%   Heeire, - ,  25t 1 K- cirmbbn r .   ;  60 1   CHARLES LiVfikt'S. Charles O'Malley, -  60 Knight of Gwynne, -  60 Arthltr O'Leary,    60 Tom lBurke of Ours, . 50 Jack Ilinton,     60 Harry Lorrequer,    60 Hiorace Templeton,   60 Kate O'Donoghue,    50 Lever's works are alsobound in four volumes, in black cloth, for $600. Scarlet cloth, $6.50. Law Library sheep$7.00. Half calf 9.00 Ten Thousand a Year, 1.00 Valentine Vox, the Ventriloquist,  -  60 The Sisters, -  -  60 The Steward, -  *  60 Percy Effingham,  -  60 ALEXANDRE DUMAS',. The Three Guardsmen,  75 Twenty Years After, - 75 Bragelonne, .   *  7.5 The Jron Hand,   -  60 Forty-Five Guardsmen, 75 Memoirs of a Marquis, 1 00 Andree de Taverney, - 1 00 Conatess of Charny, - 1 00 The Iron 'Mask. -  1 O0 Ilouise La Valliere, - 1 00 A'emoirs of a Physician, 1 00 Queen's Necklace, - 1 00 Diana of .Meridor, * 1 00 Six Years Later.   1 00 Feltna de Chambure,  60 Genevieve,     -  60 Sketches in Franee,  60 -Isabel of Bavaria, . 60 Edmond Dantes,  -   60 CorSican Brothers, - 25 IIPPARD'S WORKS. Washington & Generals, 1 00 Quaker City,    -  1 00 Paul Ardenheim,    1 00 Blancheb of Brandywine, 1 00.  The Nazarene, -    60 A Legends of Mexio,   .25 Ladye of Albaron,   1 00 4   CHARLES DICkEku. David Copperfield, -  50 Dombey and Son,   a  60 Nicholas Nickluby,    60 Pickwick Papers,    60 )Christmas Stories, - 60 Martin Chuzzlewit,   60 Barnaby ltudge,     60 Dickens' New Stories,  60 IBleak House,      60 Old Curiosity Shop,   60 tSketches by ("Boz,"  60 Oliver Twist,  -    60 A complete sett of the above will be sold for $5; als, bound in five vols., black clotil, for $7.50. Scarlet cloth, for $8.50. Law LI bra:ry Sheep, for i 9.(00. The Illustrated edition is $1.50 a volume, or $18 for the complete sett of 12 vol ume&a FRANK FAIRLEGH'S. Frank Fairlegh,   -  60 Lewis Arundel,   -  76 Harry Coverdale's Court- ship,  -  -   1 00 Lorrimer Littlegood, 1 00 Fortunes' and Misfor- tunes of Ifarry Hack. ett Scape grace, .  60 BOOKS OF FUN. Major Jones' Courtshbip and Travels. Cloth, I1  Silmon Suggs' Adventures and Travels. Cloth, 1 26 Maj or Jones' Scenes in Georgia.  Cloth, - 1 25 fHumors of Falcoubridg, 1 00 Frank Forester's Sport- ing Scenes and Cha-- racters. 2 vols., cloth I 60 Dow's Patent Sermons. By Dow, Jr. 3 vOis., each,   .  .  -  76 Piney Woods Tavprn, I 00 Adventures of Captal n Prieat,   -    7# ArIcfm Joe Millur,   ?   mJKO20UO WOR S. B&AFPULIY ILLUSTRATED. Ma&or Jones' Courtship, 50 Major Jones' Sketches of Travel,   - -  50 Btson 8uggs' Adventures, 50 M1.-rJones' Chronicles of Pineville, - -  50 Pt ly  Peablossom's Wedding,   - *   50 Widow Rughy's I usand, 50 * g kBar of Arkansas, 50 Btreaks of Squatter Life, 50 i Pckings from Picayune, 60 Fray Subjects arrested and Bound Over, -  50 Jouisiana Swamp Doctor, 50 Charcoal Sketches, - 50 Mi3fortunes of Peter Faber,50 Peter Ploddy, -  -  50 Yankee among Mermaids, 50 'ew Orleans Sketch Book, 50 Drama in Pokerville, - 50 The Charms of Paris,- 50 The Quorndon Hounds, 50 My Shooting Box,  -  60 Warwick Woodlands,   50 The Deer Stalkers, -  60 Adventures of Captain Farrago,   -  -  60 Major O'Regan's Ad- ventures,  -  -  50 Sol. Smith's Theatrical Apprenticeship, -  50 Sol. Smith'P Theatrical Journey-Work,  .  60 Quarter tace Kentucky, 50 Rival Belles, -  -  50 Life of Col. Vanderbomb, 50 Life and Adventures of Percival Mayberry,  60 Yankee  Yarns and Yankee Letters,   60 MRS. GREY'S. OGipey's Daughter, - 25 Lena Cameron,   -  25 Ielle of the Family, * 25 8ybil Lennard,   *  25 Duke and Couin,    25 The Little Wife,  -  25 Manneuvring Mother,  25 Baronet's Daughteras, 25 Young. Prima Donna,  25 Old Dower llcuae, -  25 Hyacinthe,       25 Aliae Seymour, - .   25 Msry S*hsam, -   .  50 Pamion and Principle, 60 YISRAEL'8S WORKS. Ienriectta Temple,   60 Vivian Grey,  -    60 Venetia,    -    60 Yomug Duke       88 "am Alroy,      38 Ocntarini Fleming   88 "ANGUAGES. IPreh without a Master, 25 PRanlsh without a Master, 25 {erman without aMaster, 25 Italian without a Master, 25 LtAM without a SMaster, 25   REYNOLDS' WORK. Mysteries of the Court of London. 2 vols., 1 00 Rose Foster. 3 vols., 1 50 Carolineof Brunswick, 1 00 Veuetia Trelawney, - 1 00 Lo)rd Saxondal,  - 1 00 Count Christoval, vI 00 Rosa Lambert,   - I 00 Mary Price,  -     - 00 Eustace Quentin,  - 1 00 Joseph Wilmot,   - 1 00 Banker's Daughter, - 1 00 Kenneth, -      1 00 The Rye-House Plot,  I 00 Isabella Vincent, -  50 Vivian Bertram,  -  60 Countess of Lascelles, 60 Duke of Marchmont, -  60 The Necromancer,  -  75 The Soldier's Wife, - 60 May Middleton,   -  60 Massacre of Glencoe, - 60 The Court of Naples,  60 Loves of the Harem, - 60 Ellen Percy,  -  -  60 Agnep Evelyn, -  -  60 Edgar Montrose,    - 25 Parricide,   -  -  50 Life in Paris, a a  50 CAPT. MARRYATT'8. Jacob Faithful, -   25 Japhet Search of Father, 25 Phantom Ship, -  -  25 Midshipman Easy,  -  25 Pacha of Many Tales,  25 Naval Officer, - -  25 Snarleyow,   -  -  25 Newton Foster, -  -  25 King's Own,  -  -  25 Pirate & Three Cutters, 25 Peter Simple, -  -  50 Percival Keene,  -  50 Poor Jack,   -    650 Sea King,   -  -  60 Valerie,    .  .  6C AINSWORT     S, . Jack Sheppard,   -  50 Tower of London,   1 00 Guy Fawkes,  -    60 The Star Chamber, -  60 Newgate Calendar,  . 60 Old St. Paul's, - -  60 Mysteries of the Court of Queen Anne,    50 Mysteries of the Court of the Stuarts,   60 Life of Davy Crockett, 60 Life of Henry Thomas, 25 Dick Turpin,  -  -  25 Desperadoes New World, 25 Ninon Do L'Enclos, -  25 Life of Arthur Spring, 25 Life of Grace O'Malley, 38 Wlndsor Castle,  -  60 GREEN ON GAMBLING Gambling Exposed, - 1 00 Gambling Unmasked, 1 00 Secret Band of Brothers, 1 00 The Reformed Gambler, 1 00 Ab4 ve in eotl, 4 25 each.   HGHWAYMEN. Life of John A. Marrel, 28 Life of Joseph T. Hare, 25 Life of Monrof Edward, 2S Life of Helen Jewett, 25 I ife of Jack Rann, -  Kit Clayton, -    25 Lives of the Felons - 2 Tom Waters,      25 Nat Blake,  - .   25 Bill Horton, -    26 Galloping Gus, -    25 Ned Hastings, -    25 Biddy Woodhull,    2 Eveleen Wilson,    25 Diary of a Pawnbroker, 25 Silver and Pewter,   25 Sweeney Todd, -  -  25 TALES OF THE SEA.. Adventures of Ben Brace, 50 Jack Adams,the MLutineer. 50 The Spitfire, -  -  50 The Petrel,  -  -  50 The Pirate's Son, -  25 The Doomed Ship,  -  25 The Three Pirates, -  25 The Flving Dutchman,  25 Life of Alexander Tardy, 25 The Flying Yankee, -  26 The Yankee Middy, -  25 The Gold Seekers,   25 The River Pirates, - 26 Dark Shades of City Life, 25 The Rats of the Seine, 25 Yankees in Japan, *  25 Red King, -  -  -  25 Morgan, the Buccaneer, 25 Jack Junk,       25 Davis, the Pirate, - 25 Valdez, the Pirate, - 25 Jack Ariel,  -  -  25 Gallant Tom, -  -  25 Yankee Jack,  -  -  25 Harry Helm,      25 Harry Tempest,   -  26 REVOLUTION    TALES. Seven Bros. of Wyoring, 25 The Brigand,  -  -  25 The Rebel Bride,  -  25 Ralph Runnion,   *  25 The Flying Artilleri*, 25 Old Put, -  -  -  25 Wau-nan-gee, -     25 The Guerilla Chief, -  64 MAITLAND'S WRgka. The Watchman,   - 1 X0 The Wanderer, -  - I 4 Diary of an Old Doctor, i 00 The Lawyer's Story, - 1 Se Above in cloth, $1.36 esh. EUGENE    SUR'S Martin, the Foundling, 1 00 Wandering Jew,   * I 00 Mysteries of Paris, - ] 00 First Love,  -   * 25 Woman's Love,   a  25 Man-of-War's-Man, .  26 Females Bluebeard, * 28 'Kau; C6 survi;^  .    COOK  BOOKS. liss Leslie's New Cookery Book,  - 1 25 Witt lifield's New Cook Book,  -  -  - I 00 Mrs. Hale's Fonr Thou- sand & Five Receipts, I 00 Miss Leslie's New Re- cefpts for Cooking, - 1 00 Mra. Hale's New Cook Book,  -   -  - 1 00 ART'1HUI 'S WORKS. The Two Brides,   -  25 Lova' ic a Cottage,  25 Love in High Life,  25 Year after Marriage, - 25 The Lady at Home, -  25 Cecilia Howard,   - 25 Orphan Children,  -  25 Debtor's Daughter, - 25 Mary Moreton,    - 25 The Divorced Wife, -  25 Pride and Prudence, - 25 Agnes, or the Possessed, 25 Lucy Sandford,   -  25 The Banker's Wife, -  25 The Two Merchants, -  25 Insubordination,  -  25 Trial and Triumph, -  25 The Iron Rule,   -  25 The Old Astrologer, .  25 The Seamstress,  -  25 USEFUL BOOKS. Lardner's One Thou- sand and Ten Things Worth Knowing, -   25 How to get Rich,  -  25 Etiquette for All. Cloth, 75 Five Languages with- out a Blaster. Cloth, 1 25 P'wket Library of Use- fui Knowledge,  - 50 lady's Work Table Book, 50 Gentlemen's Etiquette, 25 Ladies' Etiquette, - 25 Kitchen Gardener, -  25  1 Complete Florist,   25  1 Knowlson's Horse Doctor, 25 Knowlson's Cow Doctor, 25 krthur's Receipts for Putting  up Fruits   } ad   Vegetables in   I Summer to Keep, -  12 EMERSON BENNETIS. rhe  Arder Rover, - 1 00  CAra Moreland,   - 50 Viola,  -0 -  Bride of WilderneMs, - 50 C Bllen Norbury,      O a Forged Will,   -    G  Rate Clarendon    50 Pioneer's Daughter, - O . Heiress of Bellefonte;  and Walde-Warren,  '50 BETLWER'S NOVELS. s. The Rcue*       25 Falkland,       25 Al The Oxonians,    . 25   I D Olderon. the Oourttr  12  1        BY BEST AUTHORS. Currer Lyle,  -  - 1 G0 !5 Modern Chivalry, cloth i 25 Columbia, the Beauti- )0  ful Blonde, -  - 1 00 Life and Beauties of )0  Fanny Fern, -  - 1 00 The Pride of Life, - 1 30 )0 Autobiography of an Orphan Girl,   - 1 00 O The Student,  -  - 1 OC Adelaide Waldgrave,  6C Greatest Plague of Life, , 5 Uncle Tom's Cabin as 5  it Is, -  -  - 1 00 6 Tom Racquet,  -  -  5 Mysteries of Three Cities, 60 3 Red Indians of Neow- a  foundland,    -  50 5 Roman Traitor, -  -  I 00 i Salathiel, by Croley, 60 5 Aristocracy,  - -  50 5 Inquisition in Spain, - 50 5 Flirtations in America, 50 The Coquette,   -  0 Arrah Neil, by James, 50 Life in the South,  - 50 Sketches in Ireland, . 50 3 Whitehall,   - -  50 Whitefriars,  - -  50 5 Wild Sports of West, - 60 5 Cabin and Parlor, f - 50 5 Romish Confessional, 50 Father Clement, -   50 Fortune Hunter,   . 38 Genevra,  -  -  * 50 Miser's Heir, -  .  50 Victims of Amusements, 37 Henry Clay's Portrait, 1 00 Siege of Londonderry, 37 The Orphan Sisters, -38 Two Lovers,  -  - 60  ADVENTURES.      I Adventures in Africa, 1 00  Adventures of Ned Lorn,l 00 ( Don Quixotte% -   * 1 00 Wild Oats Sown Abroad, 50 Life and Adventures of Paul Periwipkle, -  60 GEORGE   SANDS'    s First and True Love, - 50 T Indiana, -  .    50 L The Corsair,    - 2  C C. J. iETlS'lSON'S.    C Mabel; or, Darkness    B and Dawn,    -    1 00 R Kate Avlesford,  - 1 00 S Cruising in Last War, 50 Y Grace Dudley,     25 I1 Valley Farm,   -   25 A SERMONS.       M America's Mission,   25 PJ 1 hankfulness and Cha- -   racter,  . - . 25 T1 Politics in Religion, - 12 Ii DRI HOLLICK  'S.   1 Anatomy &   Physiology,  1 00 Di Dr. I   lollick's Family Dr Physician,  .  a  25   dUARTER BOOKS. O Mysteries of a Convent, 2 "' Female Life in New York, 25 Agnes Grey,  -    25 E EvaSt Clair,  -    25 Diary of a Physician, 25 O Emigrant Squire,  -  25 MonL, by Lewis,    25 Beautiful French Girl, 25 Mysteries of Bedlam,  25 Abednego, by Mre. 0(b 25 The Orphan Child, -  1 Ghost Stories,-  -  26 Madison's Exposition of Odd Fellowship, *  25 A Abbey of Innismeyle,  5 Gliddon's Ancient Egpts 25 Josephine       25 Bell Brandon, -    25 Philip in Search of a WiN, 25 Admiral's Daughter,  25 Rody the Rover,    25 Jenny Ambrose,     25 t Moreton Hall, -   25 Agricultural Chemistry, 25 Animal Chemistry,   - 25 Liebig's Potato Disease, 25 Rose Warrington,  - 26 Lady Altamont,     25 The   Deformed, and Charity Sister,  -  Ryan's Mysteries of I Marriage,  -   25 Uncle Tom in Engl nd, 25 CHRISTY & WHTE'S SONG  BOOKS. Chidsty and Wood's Complete Songster,  12 Melodecn Song Book,  12 Plantation Melodies, - 12 Ethiopian Song Book,  12 Serenader's Song Book, 12 Complete Ethiopian Me- lodies, by Christy and White. Cloth,    - 76 12 CENT BOOKS. Seven Poor Travelers, 12 The Schoolboy,     12 1 Lizzie Leighb,  -  12 Christmas Carol,    12 The Chimes,   - -    IS Cricket on the Hearth, 12 Battle of Life, -   12 Haunted Man,  -   19 Sister Rose,  .    12 Yellow Mask,  -  - 12 Mother &   Step Mother, 1  A   Wife's Story,  12 Odd Fellowship ExpoMs 12 Mormonism Exposed,   12 Duties of Woman, by Lucretia Mott,    12 The Holly-Tree Inn,   . 1l Life of John Mlaffit,  1' Euchre and its Laws, 1l^ Throne of Iniquity,  12 Dr. Berg on Jesuits,  " Dr. Berg's Answer to ArchUht;l  U  ughe& 12   Ts B,  PETERSON   &  BROTlERS' PUBLICATIONS. rhe Books in this Catalogue a-e the Best and Latest Publications oy the most Popular and Celebrated Writers in the World. They are also the most Readable and Entertaining Books published. Suitable for the Parlor, Library, Sitting-Room, Railroad, Steamoat or Chanber Loading. PUBLISHED  AND  FOR SALE BE T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, Philadelphia. Booksellers, News Agents, Pedlers, etc., will be Supplied at Low Rates. Copies of any of Petersons' Publications, or any other work or works Advertised, Published, or Noticed by any one at all, in any place, will be sent by us, Free of Postage, on the receipt of the Price. MRS. SOUTHWORTH'S WORKS.   The Two Sisters. This is Mrs. Sonthw-"th's last new work.  Two vol., paper cover. Price $1.00; or bt,uud in one volume, c oth, for $1.P25. The Three Ben nties. Complete in two volumes, iaper cover. Price Oue Dollar; or bound in one volume, cloth, for $1.25. Vltivn. The Secret of Power. Two volunies, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or one volume, cloth, for $1.25. Inidia.  The Pearl of Pearl It i ver. Two vo!s.,paper cover. Price Onue Dollar; or bound in cloth, $1.25. Tile Wife's Victory. Two vol- umtnes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or bound in one volume, cloth, $1.25. The Lost Heiress. Two volnmes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or bound in one volume, cloth, for $1.25. 'The Missing Bride. Two vol- umes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or bound in one volume, cloth, $1.25.   Retributiotn: A Tale of -Pas- sioik. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one vol., cloth, $1.25. The Curse of Clifton. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or bound in one volume, cloth, $l1.2. The  Discarded   Daughter  . Two volumes, papler cover. Price Oue Dollar; or onue volume, cloth, for $1.25. The Deserted Wife. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or bound ina one vol., cloth, for $1.25. The  Belle of Washington. Two volumes, paper covpr. l'rice Oue Dollar; or in cloth, for $1.25. The Ilitials. A lbove Story of nlodern Life. Two vols., paper cover. Price $1.00; or in one volume cloth, $1.25. Thle Dead Secret. Two vlumes, paper cover. l'rice One Dollar; oy bound in one volume, cloth, for $1.25 Kate Aylesford.    Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or bound in one volume, cloth, for $1.25.   The whole of the above are also published in very fine style, bound in tull Crimson, tilt edges, sides, backs, etc., making elegant presentation books. Priee $2.00 a copy JAS. A. IMAITLAND'S GREAT WORKS.   Sartproe. A Tale of Norway. Highly recommended by Washington Irving Complete 1. two volumes, Ipa- per cover Price One Dollar; or bound in one volume, cloth, for $1.25. The Watchnian. Complete in two large vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one volume, cloth, $1.25. The Wanderer. Complete in two   volumes, paper cover. Price One Dol- lar; or in one vol., cloth, for $1.25. The Diary of an Old Doctor. Complete in two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in cloth, $1.25 The Lavyer's Story ; or, Ine Orpllhan's Wrongs. Two vols., paD cover. Price One Dollar; or bounad In one volume, cloth, for $1.25.   tV. tl. MIAXWELL'S WOKS.   Stories of Waterloo. One of the best books in the English language. Complete in one lati e octav v volume Price Fifty cents (0   Brian O'Lynmn    oor, Luck it Bvery thing. Price 50 cents. Wild    Sports in   the Weeat One volume. Ptice 60 ceutI   ,DIRS. CAROLINIE LEE HENTZlS I WS Rrc-   Tile Lost Danghter; and Other Stories of the Heart. (Just published ) 1 wo volumes, papercover. Price One Dollar; or in one vol., cloth, for $1.25. Planter's    Northern   Bride. Beautifully Illustrated. Two volumes, paper cover, 600 pages. Price One Dol- lar; or in one volume, cloth, "or $1.25. lndad. The 'Yolung Pilot 'of the Belle Cireole. Two volumes, paper cover. }'rice Oue Dollar; or bound in one volume, cloth, for $1.25. Robert Graham. The Sequel to and Continuation of Linda. Two vols., paper cover. Priice One Dollar. or bound in one volume, clotlh, for $1.25. Courtship anld DMa    itrriae. Two volumes, paper cover. Price Oue Dol- lar; or one volume, cloth, for $1.25.   Rena; or, The     Snow   Bird. Two vols, paper cover. Price One Dol- lar; or in one vol., cloth, for $1.25. Marcus Warland. rwovolmmes, paper cover.  Price One Dollar; 61 bound in one volume, cloth, for 1.,25. Love after Marriage. Two vole., paper cover.  Price One Dollar *ex bound in one vol., cloth, for $1.25. Eoline; or, MaIgnolia Vale. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one vol., cloth, for $1.25. The Banished Son. Two vols., paper cover.  'Price One Dollar; oe bound in one vol., cloth, for $1.25. Helen    and .Arthur. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; o0 bound in one vol., cloth, for $1.25.   Tlte whole of the above are also published in a very flue style, bound in full Crimson, with gilt edges, full gilt sides, gilt backs, etc., making them the best book, Por presentation, at the price, published. Price of either one in this style, $2.00 a copy. MSS PARDOES WORKS.   Confessions of a Pretty Wo- man. By Mis- Pardoe. Complete in one large octas vo volume. Price 50 cents.      - The Jealous Wife. By Miss Par- doe. Complete in one large octavo volume. Price Fifty cents. 'The Wife's Trials. By MAiss Par- doe. Complete in one large octavo volume. Price Fifty cents. T'he Rival Beauties. By Miss   Pardoe. Complete in one large octavo volume. Price Fifty cents. Romnance of the Harem. By Bliss Pardoe. Complete in one large octavo volume. Price Fifty cents. The whole of the above Five ur"ks are also bound in cloth, gilt, in one large octavo volume. Price $2.50. The   Adopted   Heir. By Miss Pardoe. Twovols., paper cover. Price- $1.00; or in cloth, $1.25. (In Press.)   I9RS. ANN S. STEPHENS' WORKS.   Mary Derwent. This is Mrs. Ann S. Stephens' last new work. Complete in two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one vol., cloth, $1.25. Fashion and Fanine. Twovol- ames, paper cover. l'rice One Dollar; or. ; one voliume, cloth, for $1.25.   The Old Homestead. Two vol- umes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one volume, cloth, for $1.25. The Gipsy's Legacy; or, the Heiress of Gr'eeuhurst. Two volumes, paper covert. Price One Dol- lar; or in one volume, cloth, for $1.25.   COOIK BROOKS. BEST IN TIE WORLD.   UIiss Leslie's New Cookery Book. Being the Jtlrgest, best, aud most complete Cook Book ever got up by Miss Leslie. Now first published. One volume. Price $1.25. Mrs. Hale's New Cook Book. By Mrs. Sarah J. {Iale. One volume, bouud. Prich One Dollar.   Miss Leslie's New Receipts for Cooking. Complete in one large volume, bound. Price One Dollar, W  Vidlifield, s New Cook Book, or, Practical Receipts for the lon!8 wife. Recommended by all. One vol- ume, cloth. Price One Dollar.   IMRS. HALES RECEIPTS.   u rs. Hale s 1R-eceipts for the Mil lioln. Containing Four Tlou- sand Five Hundred and Forty-five Re- ceipts, Facts, Directions, and Know- ledge for All, in tLe Useful, Orna-   mental, and Don^.tic A  ;, Being g complete Family I 'rector . ud Hou^e. hold Guide for the MAilli n By fMrs Sarah J. Hale. One volu .a, ,t)0 pagug strongly bouoad. Price, tji.2   CHARLES LEVER'S WORKS. All neatly done up in paper covers.   C harles OlMalley,.Price 50 cents. Harry Lorrequer, ..... 50 " lHorace Templeton,... 60 " Tom  Burke of Ours, 60 " Jack   Hilliton,  the Guardsman, ............... 60 "   Arthur O'Leasry,...Pnee 60 enrk Knight of Gwynne,.. 60 "' KIate O'Donogllue,.... 60   - Con Cregal, the IrisIh G:il Blas ...................... 60 " Davenport Dunn, a lian  of our Day,...... K0 ,'   A complete sett of the above will be sold, or sent to any one, to any place, frf of postage, for $4.00. "BRARY EDITION. THS EDITION is complete in FOUR large octavo volumes, containing Charles O'Malley, Harry Lorrequer, Horace Templeton, Tom Bnrke of Ours, Arthur O'Leary, lack Hintou the Guardsmnan, The Knight of Gwynne, Kate O'Donoghue, etc., ha:Id- -omely printed, and bound in various styles, as follows: Price of a sett in  Black  cloth, .......... ......................................... . $6.00 "     Scarlet  cloth, ......... .............................................. 6.50 1," law   Library sheep, ............................................  7.00 "   "  H alf  Calf ......... ................................................. 9.00 "   "  Half Calf, marbled edges, French,......................... 10.00 '   ("  Half Calf, antique ............................................... 12.00 FINER EDITIONS. Charles O'Malley, fine edition, one volume, cloth,.............................. $1.55 SS     6   H alf calf, ............................................................. 2.00 Harry Lorrequer, flne edition, one volume, cloth .............................. 1.50 P    "     6   H alf  calf, ............................................................ 2.00 Jack  Hinton, fine edition, one volume, cloth ...................................... 1.50 S       i    lHalf  calf............................................................ 2.00 Valentine Vox, fine edition, one volume, cloth, ................................... 1.50 6(     "    1ialtl  calf............................................................ 2.00 6(     "    cheaI) edition, paper cover, .................................. 50 Ten Thousand a Year, fine edition, one volume, cloth, ....................... 1.50 6 ;     6   Hlalf  calf, ......................... .................................... 2.00 "    Sc   cheap edition, paper cover. Two volumes, ................ 1.00 Diary  of a Medical- Stuldelnt.     By S. C. Warren, author of "Ten Thousand a Year." One volume, octavo, ................................................... 50 HUMOROUS ILLUSTRATED WORKS.   lMajor Jones' Conrtship anid Travels.  Beautifully illustrated. One volume, cloth. Price $1.25. MAajor Jones' Seentes in Geor- gia. Full of beautiful illustrations. One volume, cloth. Price $1.25. e8in Slick, the Clocknlaker. By Judge Haliburton.  Illustrated. Being the best funny work ever writ- ten by any one in this vein. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or bound in one volume, cloth, for $1.25. Simon    Suggs9 Adventures and  Travels. Illustrated. One volume, cloth Price $1.25. ll imors of Falcoithridge. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dol- lar: or one vol., cloth, for $1.25. franh    iForester's Sporting   Scenes & Characters. ' Illus. trated. Two vols., cloth. Price i2.50. Dowr's Shlort Patent Sermons. First Series.   By Dow, Jr. Containing 128 Sermons. Complete in one volume, cloth, for One Dollar or paper cover, 75 cents. Dow's Short Patent Sermons. Second Series. By Dow, Jr. Containing 1l4 Sermons. Complete in one volume, clotli, for One Dollar; or paper cover, 75 cents. Dow's Short Patent Sermons. Thrd Series.   By Dow) Jr. Containing 116 Sermons. Complete in one volume, cloth, for One Dollar; ox paper cover, 75 cents. American Joe Miller. Withl 0 Illustrations. One of the most humor. ous books in the world Price 25 cents   CHARLES DICKENS, WORKS. fourteen Different Editions in Octavo Form. "PETERSON'S" are the only complete and uniform editions of Charles Dicken  Works ever published in the world; they are printed from the original London Ed'- nons, and are the only editions published in this country. No library e!tiler public or private, can be complete without having in it a complete sett of the works of this, the greatest of all living authors. Eveily family should possess a fett of one of the editions. The cheap edition is coaplete in Sixteen Volumes paper cover; either or all of which can be had separately, as follows:   Little Dorrit, .........Price 60 cents. Pilckwiek Papers,......... 60  Dickerns New   Stories, 60  Bleak House,................. 50 " David Copperfield, ...... 60  Dombey and Son, ......... 60  Nicholas Nickleby ....... 60'  Christmas Stories, ....... 60 " "Martin Chuzzlewit,.... 60    Barnaby Rudge...Price 60 cents Old Curiosity Shop,.... 50   " Sketches by t6Boz," ..... 650 * Oliver Tvrvist,................ 6.50 " The Tvvo A pprentices, 25   st Wreck of the Golden Mary ............................... 25 " Perils of certain En- glish Prisoners, ......... 25 (   A complete sett of the above Sixteen books, will be sold, or sent to any one, to Q7 place, free of postage, for $6.00. LIBRARY OCTAVO EDITION. Publishied in Seven Different Styles. This Edition is complete in SIX very large octavo volumes, with a Portrait on " sf Charles Dickens, containing the whole of the above works, handsomely prixtd tad bound in various styles. Vol. 1 contains Pickwick Papers and Curiosity Shop. " 2 do.  Oliver Tvist,   Sketches by    66 Boz,"9 and Bar. lnaby Rudge. fS 3  do.  Nichlolas Nickleby, and Martin Ch'tzzlewit. 4  do.  David    Copperfiel l, 'Dombey    alnd  SoiL wd Christhnas Storlies. " 5 do.  Bleak House, and Dickens,     New  Stories. " 6  do.  Little Dorrtit. In two books-Poverty and Riches. Price of a sett, in Black  cloth, .  .  ........................ a......n. n Scarlet  cloth, extra,........ .... ... ................................ .    Law   Library style, ............ ................................. ... Half Turkey, or Half Calf,............................................ 13.0( "   Half calf, marbled edges French,..............................  -f "  Half calf, real Incient antique, ......... ....... ............. ...I..0. "   Half calf, full gilt backs. etc....:::::::;::::::;;: 1j00 ILLUSTRATED OCTAVO            EDITION. THS  EDITION IS TN THRTEEN  VOLTTMES, and Is printed on very fties and fine white paper, and is profusely illustrate-, with all the original lustration by Cruikshank, Alfred Crowquill, Phiz, etc., from the original London editions. ct sopper, steel. and wood. Each volume contains. novel complete, and may be haoo ta complete setts, beautifully bound in cloth, for Nineteen Dollars a sett: or any   valume will be buld separately at One Dollar and Fifty cents each. The followiag are their respective names:   Little Dorrit. Pickwick Papers. lBarinaby Rudge. Old Curiosity Shop. Bleak Hlouse. David Copperfield. Doinbey and Son.   Nicholas Nickleby. Christinas Stories. 9Martin Cliuzzlewit. Skelches by 6 Bozo z Oliver Twist. Dickens9 New Stories.   rice of a sett, in Black cloth, in Thirteen volumes, ... ..................................... Full Law  Library  style ......... ......................................... 26 A Half calf, or half Turkey, ........... .............................. 29.00 Half calf, marbled edges, French, ....................................... 32.5M Half calf, ancient antique ............................................... . 39.00 r"    Half calf, full gilt backs, etc............................. ............. 9.00 DUODECIMO ILLUSTRATED EDITION. Complete in Twenty-Five Volumes. The Editions in Duodecimo form are beautifully Illustrated with over Five Haun dred Steel and Wood Illustrations, from designs by Cruikshank, Phiz, Leech, Browne, Maclise, etc., illustrative of the best scenes in each work, making it the most beautiful and perfect edition in the world; and each work is also reprinted from the first original London editions that were issued by subscription in monthly numbers, and the volumes will be found, on examination, to be published on the finest and best of white paper. This edition of Dickens' Works is now published complete, entire, and unabridged in Twenty-five beautiful volumes, and supplies what has long been wanted, an edi- tion that shall combine the advantages of portable size, large and readable type, and uniformity with other standard English authors. This Duodecimo edition has been gotten up at an expense of over Eorty-FRve Thousand Dollars, but the publishers trust that an appreciative public will repay them feor the outlay, by a generous purchase of the volumes. All they ask is for the public to examine them, and they are confident they will exclaim, with one voice, that they are the handsomest and cheapest, and best illustrated Sett of Works ever published. This edition is sold in setts, in various styles c binding, or any work can be had separately, handsomely bound in cloth, i( two volumes each, Price $2.50 a sett, as follows:   Pickowick Papers. Nicholas Nickleby. David CopperAield. Oliver Twist. Bleak House. Little Dorrit. Dombey and Son.   Sketches by "Boz." Barnaby Rudge. Martin Chiiuzzlewit. Old Curiosity Slhop. Christmas Stories. Dickens' New Stories.   Prce of a sett In 1 weaty-Five volumes, bound in Black cloth, gilt uacrs,....3        O0 "Full Law Library style.................................................. 40). a'    "   Scarlet, fuill gilt, sides, edges, etc., .....................................4'00 ,4    a   Half clf, a   ncient  antique, .............................. ........ 00 "   i   Half calf, full gilt back ...........  ......   ................, :OC (    "   Full calf, ancient antique,............................................... 6 Oo "    X   Ful' clf, gilt edges, backs, etc1.,........................... ............   PEOPLE'S      DUODECIMO      EDITION, PubFlislwd in Eight Different Styles. This Duodecimo edition is complete in Thirteen volumes, of near One Thousand tages each, with two illustrations to each volume, bat is not printed on as thick or as fine paper as the Illustrated Editionsbut contains all the redling mattel that Is in the Illustrated Edition, printed frolm large type, leaded. The volumes are sold separately or together, price One Dollar and Fifty cents each, neatly bound in cloth ; or a complete sett of Thirteen volumes in this style will be sold for $19.00. following are their names:   Little Dorrit. Pickwick Papers. Martin Chuzzlewit. Barnaby Rudge. Bleak House. David Copperfield. Dombey and Son.   Nicholas Nickleby. Christmas Stories. Old Curiosity Shop. Sketches by "Boz." Oliver Twist. Dickens' New Stories.   Price of a sett, in 131Ba ck cloth,. ................................... ................................$19.00 , F       ull I Jaw  Librar, y  style, .................................................. 24.0C "  lHalf cailf, or Il;lf Tnuil-ey,........................... 26.00 "    Half calf, marllted edges, French, .................................... 28.00 "r    "   Half calf, ancientt anltilue, .............................................. 32.00 "(    "     ' MHlf caltf full gilt backs,.............................................. 32.00-- "   " '  Full  calf, ancient antique,.............................................. 40.00 r," " . Full ca-lf, gilt edges, backs, etc .................................. 40.00 AD-VENTUREIES AND TRAVEtLS.   llarris's  Explorantios    in olit h Afirica. By iMajor Corn- wallis Hf arris. This book is a rich treat. 'Two volulmes, paliper cover. Price $1.00 ; or il clotli, $1.21. Wild Oats Sown Abroad; or, On and Off Soundings. l'rice 50 cents in pa per coverr; or cloth, gilt, 75 cents.   Doln WQixotte.-Life andi Ad- veu1taures dof ADorn   ixotlej auni his Squire, Saucho Paiza. Conm- 'plete in two volumes, paper colar Price $1.00. Life and Adventures of Patn Peri ^v inkle. Full of Illustrativu.,. Priice ,50 cents.   EUGENE SUE'S GREAT NiOVELS.   -1llutistrated Wlanderilg J ewr vith Eighlty-seven largie Illu trattions. Two volufnes. Prlice $1.00. blysteries of Paris; and Ge- rolstein, the Seqdel to it. Two volumes, paper cover. Price $1.00. First Love.   A Story of the Heart. !'sic e '2' ceits. Womlan's Love. Illustrated. Price 25 cents.   MarLtin the Founldllingr. Beau- tif ully 11 ustrated. ' Two vrolumes, p4- per cover. Price One Dollar. T' e lMan-of-Warzl s-nMan. Com- plete in one large octavo volume. Price 2.5 cents. Thie Fenale Illuebeard.     One -volume. Price 25 cents. Ranotl de Snrville. One volume. Price 25 ceuts. (In Press.)   GEORGE IIPPARD'S XVORKS.   Legends   of  the   A nerican Revol ut ion ; ,1r, Washi ngton, and lis Generals. Two vol- Price $1.00. i'he tnuaker City; ,or, The Monuks of Mouk Hall   Two volumets, paper cover. Price One Dollar. Paul Ardethelieink ; the Monk of Wissahiktmu. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar. lanche of Brandy^Nviie.     A Revolutionary 'Romance.  Two vol- ime, rape coveIr. l'rice n0e )Dollar.   Thle  NIazarene.    One vol. Price 50 cents. Legeends of Mexico. One volume. Price 2'5) cents. The   Lady of Albarone; or, The Poison Goblet,  Two volumes, pa- per cover. Price One Dollar; or bound ill one volume, cloth, for $1.25. (In Press.) New   York: Its  Upper  Teu and Lower TMillion. One vol. ume. Price 50 cents.   HUMOROIUS AMERICAN WORKrS. With Original Illustrations by Barley and Others. Done up in Illuminated Covers.   "dJor Jonesw Courtship.    With Thirteen Illstr .ions, from designus by Dnrley. Pricer 5 cents. Drama in Pokerville. ByJ. M. Field. With Illustrations by Darley. Price Fifty cents. Louisiana Swami   p Doctor. By auth br of k"Cupping on the Sternum. " Illustrated by Darley. 50 cents. Charcoal Sketches. By Joseph C. Neal. With Illustrations. 40cents. Yankee Aniongst the lMer- maids.   By W. E. Burton. With Illustrations by Darley. Price 50 cents. 6Xisfortunes of Peter FaDer. By Joseph C. Neal. With Illustrations. by Darley. Price Fifty cents. Major Jones9 Sketcles of Tra- vel. With Eight Illustrations, from designs by Darley. Price Fifty cents. Western Scenes; or, Life oil the   Prairie.  By the autlor of "Major Jones' Courtship."  50 cents. 4narter    Race in Kcntucky. By W. T. orter, Esq.  With Illustl a- tions by Darley. Price Fifty cents. Sol. Snithys Theatrical     Ap. prelnticeship.   Illustrated  by Darley.  Price Fifty Cents. Yalnkee  Yarns  anld   Yankee Letters.  By Sam Slick, alias Judge Haliburton.  Plice 50 cents. Life and  Adventures of     Col. Vanderbomlb.   By author " Wild Western Scenes," etc. Price 50 cents. Big Benr of Arkansas. Edited by Win. T. Porter. With Illustrations by Darley. Price Fifty cents. IMajor Joies9  Chronicles  of Pilleville. With Illustrations by Darley. Plrice Fifty cents. Life alld Advelltulres of Per- cival  IMaDerry.  By J. H. In- graham. Price Fifty cents. Franlk  Forester9s (Quorndon   uminated Covers. Hoelllds.  By H. W. Herbert. Esq. With Illustrations. Price 50 cents. Pickings froln the -Picay, nil e.- With Illustrations by Darley Price Fifty cents. Fralnk   Foresters  8hoot lng ox. With Illustratiolts by Darley. Price Fifty cents Peter Ploddly. By author of"Char. coal Sketcles." With Illustrations by Darley. Price Fifty cents. Streaks of Sqtatter Life.     By the author 'L lMajor Jones' Courtsbip.' Illustirated by Darley. 50 cents. Simntoe  Saglgs.-Advventures of   C aptainl  Simon  Suggs. Illustrated by Darley. Price 50 cents. Stray   Subjects Arrested   and Bonalk( Over. With Illustrationa by Darley. Price Fifty cents. Frank   Forester's Deer Stalk. ers.   %Witli Illustrations. 50 cents. Adveintures of    Captain Par- rago.   By lion. H. H. Blrackenridge. With Illustrations. Price Fifty cents. Widow     Rughy's   Husband. By author of "Simon Suggs." With Illustrations. Price Fifty cents. ninjor O'Reganns Ad    v eltures. By Hon. H. I. Brlackeuridge. With I1lu strations by Darley. 50 cents. Thieatrical Jorllvey-v7V ork   d Anlecedotal 1tecollect1ios   of Sol. Smitlih Esq.  50 cents. Polly  PeaDlossovns   Weld- din g.  By the author of "MaIjor Jolu^.' Courtship l"  Priice Fifty ccnts. PF-rank Forester's Warwick \ (oodlaml(s.- With beautiful II. lustrations, illuminated  50 cents. New  Orleans  Shketet Book, Bvy "Stall." With Illu strations by Darley. p'rice Fifty cents. Tihe  Cliharnms  of Paris; er, Sketc^lle, t'Travel and Adventures by ligohtand Day. i0 cents. (1JPregs.   C. J. PETERSON9S WORKS.   f ate Aylesford. A Love Story. Two vod , paper cover. Price One Dollar; or bound in one vol., cloth, rruislng   in the Last Xt'nr. First and &Seond Series. Being the complete work. By Charles J. Peter- Jo. Price 50 -ats   The V alley Farm; or, The Auto. boi,)[pliy (f' a o(-)r'l'an I A Corupanm i)lu to Jaue Eyle. P'lice 2.5 cents. Grace Iltudley; o r, Ar-nold at Sarn t,fa. Price 25 ceuts. Manbel; or, Darkness and Dawn. Two v,)ls., paper cover. I'ri(.e One ),llJar or bound in cloth. Il 25. (In Pres )   AlEXANDRE DUMAS' WORKS.   I owunt of Monte-Cristo.      By Alexandre Dunmas. Complete and un- abridged edition. Beautifully Illus- trated. Two volumes, paper cover. Price $1.00; or in cloth, $1.25. edmond Dantes. Being a Sequel to Dunas' celebrated novel of the "Count of Monte-Cristo." I vol. 60 cts. The Tc hree Guardsnmeen. By Alexandre Dumas. Complete in one large volume. Price 75 cents. 1 wenty  Years After. A Sequel to the "Three Guardsmen."    One volume. Price 75 cents. Iragelonne ;   the  Son   of Atlios : being the continuation of the "Three Guardsmen,"  and "Tweuty Years After." One Volume. 75 cents. rite Iro n Mask. Being the con- tinuation and conclusion of the "Threo Guardsmen."  Twovols. l'rice $1.00. Louise La Valliere; or, The Second Series and End of the "Iron Mask." Two volumes. Price $1.00. Thle Menloirs-of a Physician. Beautifully  Illustrated. Two vols. Price One Dollar. rlhe Queen's Necklace. A Se- quel to the "Memoirs of a l'hysician." Two volumes. Price One Dollar. Six Years Later; or, The Taking of the Bastile. A Continuation of "The Queen's Necklace." 2 vols. $1.00. Connt ess of Charny; or, The Fall of the French Monarchy. A Sequel to Six Years Later. Two vols. $1J.00. The nlemoirs of a Marq-uis. Complete in two vols. Price $1.00   Diana of Meridor; or, France ln the Sixteenth Centuiy. Two volume& Price One Dollar. TUle Iron Hand; or, The Knight ot Mauleon. Beautifully Illustrated. O0t volume. Price 50 cents. The Forty-Five Guardsmen, Beautifully Illustrated. One volume. Price 75 cents. Fernllade; or, TPhe     ]Fal1lev Angel. A Story of Life in Paris, One volume. Price Fifty cents. T'hotlsanld   and  One  Phalnr tons. Complete in one'vol. 60 cts. George;    or, The Planter of the Isle of Fralce. sOne vol Price Fifty cents. Geneevieve; or, The Chevalier of MaIison Rouge. One volume. Illus trated. Price 50 cents. Sketches  in   France. One vol- nine. Price 50 cents. Isabel of Bavaria. One volume. Price 60 cents. Felina   de Chanmbure; or, The Female Fiend. 65) cents. Andree    de Ttveruney;  or, The Second Series and End of the Countess of Charny.   Two vols.  $1.00. (In Prews.) The Conscript Soldier. A Tale of the Empire. Two volumes, paper cover. Price $1.00; or bound in one vol ume, cloth, for $1.25. (nl Press.) Tile  Corsican   Brothers.  25 ceilts. (In Press.)   EMERSON BENNETT'S WORKS.   The Border Rover.      Two large vols., plper cover. l'rice One Dollar; or in one volume, cloth, for $1.25. Pioneer's Danghte5r;    anld the Ulnknownl   Countess. Complete in one volume. Price 50 cents. Clara Moreland.     Price 50 cents; or cloth, gilt, $1.00. Viola. Price 50 cents; or in cloth, gilt, 75 cents.   The Forged W   ill. Price 50 cents, or cloth, gilt, $1.00. Ellen Norbury. 50 cents; or one vol., cloth, $1.00. Bride   of the Wilderness. 60 cents.: or in cloth, 75 cents. Kate ClairendOn. 60 cents;    la cloth, gilt, 75 cents. Heiress of Bellefonte; and Walde-Warren. 60 cents.   HARRY COCKTON'S WOREKS.   Valertine Vox, the Ventrilo- quist.. One vol., pap! cover, 50 cts; or a finer edition in cloit for $1.50. bylvester  Sonnd,   ttie Som- taminbulist. Illustramtes.  Complete in one large octavo volume.  Price 60 centa   i The Sisters. By Henry Cocktol, author of "Valeatitua Vox, the Ven triloquist." Price 50 ceuts. The Steward.    By Hen-ry Cocktom, Price 50 cents. Percy  Effitlglam.   Byt BRenro Cockton. Primc 60 cuts.   MRS. GREI S POPULAR NOVELS. Price Twenty-Five Cents each.   Gipsy's Daughter. Lena Cameron. Belle of the Family. Sybil Lennard. Duke and Cousin. The Little Wife. M anceuvring Mother.   Baronet's Daughters. Young Prima Donna. Old Dowxer Hlouse. Alice Seymour. Hyac i nthe. [50 cents. Passion & Principle. iMary Seahram. 50 cents.   D'ISRAELI'S POPULAR     NOVELS. ]With a Portrait of D'Israeli in each volume.   Ivlian Grey. One large volume, octavo. Price 50 cents. Veneti a; or, Lord Byron aud his Daughter. Price 50 cents. Henrietta    Temple.   A  Love Story. Price 50 cents.   The Younlg   Dnke. One ocatvo volume. Price 38 cents. Coentarili Fleming. An Atto- bioirraphy. Price 38 cents. AMirlaxl Alroy. A Romance of the 12th Century. Price 3S certjs.   MISS ELLEN PICKIERING9S WORKS. Price Twenty-Five Cents each.   Orphan Ni ece. Kate XValslingliam. Who Shall be Heir  The Secret Foe. TPhe Expectanvt. The Frighl. l, i et ll usbanld. The Heitess.   Poor Coilsin. Ellern Warehamn' Nan Darrel. Prince and Pedlar. Merchantss Da ug lhter, The Squire. Agnes Serle. The Grutnbler. 60 cts.   FRANK FAIRLEGII'S WORKS.   Fra nlk Fairlegh ; or, Scenes in the Life of a Private Pupil. By Frank E. Smedley, Eq.  Illustrated. Paper cover. Price 50 cen ts. Levlis  Arnullldel.  By author of "Frank Fairlegh." I'llultrated. One volume, paper cover. Price 75 cents. Ilarry   Racket   Scaplegrace. By author of "Frank Fairllgh." (Corm- !lete in one volume. l'aer cover. Price 50 ceuB.   Lorritner Littlegood. By an- thor of "Frank Fairlegh. "Complet in two volumtes, paper cover. Price $1.no ; or bouud in ocne volume, cloth, for $1.25. (Jn Pre8.'.) Hlarry   Covelrdale's  Court. slip), aud All that Came of It. Now first )ublished Entire and Unabridged Illustrated. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or bound in ong volume, cloth, $1.25. (In2 Press.)   CAPTAIN MARRYATT'S WORKE. Price Twenty-Five Cents ea(h.   Jacob Faithful. Phantont Ship. King's Owln. Snarleyow. Midlshipllnran Easy. The Naval Officer. N ewton Forster. Rattlin. the Reefer.   Japhet Search Pather. Patcla of nilnny Tales. Pirnale & Three Ctltteir Percival Keene. nocta. Poor Jack. 60 cents. Sea Kilig. 60 cents. Peter Slimp)le. 50 cent, Valeier. bu ceus   REYNOLDS9 GRFiAT ROMANCE]S.   btlysterles of the   Couxrt of London.   Complete in two large volumes, paper cover. Price $1.00. Rose Foster; or, "The Second Se- ries of the Mysteries of the Court of London." 3 vols., paper cover. $1.50. Caroline   of Brunswicki or, the "Third Series of the BMysteries of the Court of London." Two vols., paplr cover. Price One Dollar. erienetin Trelawney; being the "Fourth Series, or final conclusion of the Mysteries of the Court of London." Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar. Lord  Saxondale; or, The Court of Queen Victoria. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar. Count Christoval. The "Sequel to Lord Saxondale."  Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar. Rosa Lambenrt; or, The Memoirs of an Unfortunate Woman. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar. Mary Price;   or, The Adventures of a Servant-lMaid. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar. Euxstace Quenttin. A "Sequel to Mary Prico." Two volumes, paper cover. Prime One Dollar. Joseph Wilmot; or, The Memoirs of a Man-Servant. Two volumes, pa- per cover. Price One Dollar. T'he Banker9s   Daughter.   A Sequel to "Joseph Wilmot."  Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar. Kenneth.   A Romance of the High- lands.  Two volumes, paper cover. Priice One Dollar. Tlhe Rye-House    Plot; or, Ruth, the Conspirator's Daughter. Two vols., paper cover. Price $1.00. The  Opera  Dancer;    or, The 5 lysteries of London Life. Complete in one octavo volume. Price 50 cents. Thle Ruined Gamester. With Illustrations. Complete in one large octavo volume. Price Fifty cents. Wallace: the Hero of Scot- land.  Beautifully Illustrated with Thirty-eight plates. Price Fifty cents. The Child of Waterloo; or, The Horrors of the Battle Field. Com- plete in one octavo volume. 50 cents. The  Discarded Quneen.    One von1me. Price 50 cents.   Luecrezia TMira alno; or, The Conn. tess and the Page. Cohplete in ouo large volume. lPrice 50 cents. Ciprina; or, The Secrets of  a Picture Gallery.    Complett in one large volume. P'lice 50 cents. The Necronoancer. A Romanos of the Timnes of Henry the Eighth. Two volumes. Price One Dollar. Robert Bruice: the Hero KIn{Ig of Scotlanll,   with his l'ortrat. One volume. Price Fifty cents. Isabella Viniceint; or, The Twe Orhallans. One volume, paper cover. Price 50 cents. Vivian    Bertram; or, A Wife's Houor.  A Sequel to "Ii-abella Vin- cent." One vol., paper cover. 50 cents. The  Counitess of Lascelles. The Continuation to "Vivian Ber- tram." Oue vol., paper cover. o0 cents. Ditke of Marchlliont. Being the Coucltqsion of'"The Countess of Las- celles." Onevol., paper cover. 50cta. Gipsy ChiefC Beautifully Illustrated. Complete in one large octavo volume Price Fifty cents. Pickwick Abiroad. A Companion to the "'Pickwick lPapers" h)y "Boz." One volume. Price F,'ifty ctuts. Q&leenl Joanlna; or, the Mys- teries  of   tiae  Coulrt  of Naples. Illustrated. 50 cenlts. The Soldier's Wife. Beautifully Illustrated. Complete in one volume. Price Fifty cents. May M1iddileton; or, The History cl a Fortune.  Complete in oue volume Price Fifty cents. Massacre of Glencoe. Bea-utiful ly Illustrated. Complete in one vol- ume. Price Fifty cents. The Loves of the Hlarem. Price 50 cents. Ellen Percy; or, The 3[emoirs or an Actress. Priice .50 cents. Agnes Evelyn; or, Beauty uand Pleasure. Price 50 cents. Thle Parricide. BeautifullyIliu- trated. l'Price 50 cents. Life in Paris. Handsomely Illus trated. 'Price 50 cents. Edgar mloiontrose. OnDe vlura l'Price 25 cents.   J. P. SSMTHS BElST WORI'-K,.   The Usurer's Victinl.    By J. F. Smith, Esq. Compl,;te in one large  vulume. Price 50 ceuts.   Adelaide   Wtald!grave'; or, Thle rrial., l' a Goverutss Cm,iplete in I aue large vol umeU. Price8 5C ceutd   AINSWrOR THS BIpST XVOTITCS.   Ife of Jack SheDppnrd, the Inost noted burglar, robber, and jail breaker That ever lived. I'lustrated 50 ceuts. The Tow-er of Lonidon. With over One Hundred splendid Engrav- ings. Two volumes. Price $1.00. The Miser's Daughter. Com- plete in two large vols. Price $1.00. Pictorial Life & Adventures of Guy Fawkes. Bloody Tower, etc. Illustrated. l'rice 50 cents Tlhe Pictorial Old St. Paunls. A Tale eo the Plague and the Fire. !]lasttrated. Price 50 cents. The Star Chamber. Illustrated. Price 50 cents. fIysteites of the     Court of aneen Anne. Price 50cents. IMysteries of the Court of the Stuarts. Price 50 cents. Wilindsor   Castle.  One volume. Price 50 cents.   The Pictorial Newgate Cale endar ; or, The Chronicles of Crime. Beautifully Illustrated. 50 cents. Life of  Helnry Thomas, the Western Burglar and Murderer. Full of Plates. One volume. Price 25 cents. Pictorial Life & Adventures of Dick Turpin, the Burglar, Murderer, etc. One vol. Price 25 cents. Life and Adventures of the Desperadoes    of the Newr World. Illustrated. 1 vol. 25 cents. Life of 'Iion De L'Enclos With her Letters on Love, Courtship & Marriage. Illustrated. 1 vol. 25 cts. Pictorial Life andil Advenr. tures of Davy Crockett, One volume. Price 50 cents. Grace O'iMalley-Her Life &; A dvenltures. Price 38 cents. Life & Advelntures of Arthur Spring. Price 25 cents.   T. S. ARTHUR'S BEST WORIKS. Price wentvy-Rive Cents each.   The Lady at Home. Year after Marriage. Cecilia Howeard. Orphan Children. Love In High Life. Debtor's Daughter# Love ilx a Cottage. Mary Moreton. The Divorced Wife.   The Two Brides. A gnes, or Possessed. Lucy Sandford. The Banker's Wife. The Two Merchants. Insuborlination. Trial anld Triumph. Thle Iroln Rule. Pride and Prudence.   GREEN'S XVORKS ON GAMBLING.   Gamnbling Exposed; a full Ex- position of all the various Arts, Mys- teries, and Miseries of Gambling. By J. H. Green, the Reformed Gambler. Complete in two volumes, paper cover, Price One Dollar; or one volume, cloth, gilt, $1.25. The Reformed Gambler; or, The Autobiography of the Reformed Gambler, J. H. Green. Written by Himself. Complete in two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one vol. cloth, gilt, for $1.25. (In Pres.)   The Gambler's Life; or, The An, tobiography of the Life, Adventure,. and Personal Experience of Jonathan H. Green. Written by Himself. Wito a Steel Portrait of the Author, and other Illustrative Engravings. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollari or one volume, cloth, gilt, $1.25. Secret Band of Brothers. Comn piled by J. H. Green. Beautifully Illnus trated from original desig as, by Darley and Croomc. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one ceL, cloth, gilt, for $1.25. (In Prews.)   "EBIG'S %WORKS ON CHEMSTRY.   Agricultural Chemistry. Com- plete in one volume. Price 25 cents. Animal Chemistry. Complete in one volume. Price 25 cents.   Letters on Cliemistrye The Potato Disease. Chemistry and Physics in r lation to Physiology and P'athology.   The above Five works of Professor Liebig are also published complete in one Arge octavo volume, bound. Price $1.50. The three last works are only published tu the bound volume-   WORKS BY THE BEST AUTHORS.   The Oquaker Soldier; or, The qritish i{x Philadelphia. - By a noted Judge Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one vol., cloth, for $1.25 Currer Lyle; or, The Auto- biography of Louise Reed- er. Written by Herself, and contain- ing her Portrait on Steel. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or bound in one volume cloth, for $1.25. tife amid Beauties of Fanny Ferln. Complete in two volumes, pa pei cover, price $1.00; or bound in one volune, cloth, for $1.25. "orinne; or, Italy. By Madame De Stael. Translated expressly for this edition. The poetical passages by L. E. L. Two vols., complete in one. Price Fifty cents. The Romlna    Traitor, By H. W. Herbert. Two vols., paper cover. Price $1.00; or one vol., cloth, $1.25. Flirtations    in  Anmerica or, High Life in New York. Complete in one volume. Price 50 cents. The Pridle of Life. By author of "Henpecked Husband."   2 vols., pa- per cover. Price $1.00; or bound in one volume, cloth, for $1.25. The Cabin. and    Parlor. By J. Thornton Randolph. Price 50 cents in paper; or bound in cloth for $1.00. Life il the South. An Antidote to "Uncle Tom's Cabin."  Illustrated by Darley. Price 50 cents.   Mysteries of    Three Citles.. Boston, New YorlK, and Philadelphia By A. J. H. Duganne. One vol. 50 ct. Red  Indians of Newfoudllx land. An Illustrated Indian Story. * By author of "Prairie Bird. " 50 cts. The Greatest Plague of Life) or, The Adventures of a Lady in Searob of a Good Servant. Price 50 cents. Ned Iunsgrave; or, The most its fortunate Man in the World. By Tho dore Hook. Onevolume. 50 cent. Llorenters History of the ]L quisition  in Spain. Complete in one large octavo volume. 50 cents Genevra; or, The History of a Por. trait. By one of the most prominent Writers in America. One vol. 50 cts. Abbey    of  Innismoyle. -By Grace Kennedy. Price 25 cents. Father Clement. By author of "Dunallen." Price 50 cents. The ]Fortune Hunter. By Mrs. Mowatt. Price 3s cents. Romish   Confessional.    By 3. Michelet. Price 50 cents. W  hitehall; or, The Times of Oliver Cromwell. Complete in one volume. Illustrated. Price 50 cents. Whitefriars;    or, The  Days of Charles the Second. Complete in one volume. Illustrated. Price 50 cents. (In Pess.)   USEFUL BOOKS FOR EVERYBODY.   The   Lady's  Xorke - Table Book. Full of plates. Beautififlly bound in one volume in crimson cloth, gilt. Price One Dollar. Lardner's Orne Thousand and Ten Tlhings Worthb Knlow- ing; to which is added Employment to All; or a Hundreed Ways to make and keep Money. Price 25 cents. Pocket   Library of   Useful Knowledge.   A work that all should own. Price 50 cents. Gentlemen's Science of Eti- quette; and Guide to Society. By Count O'0rsay. With his Portrait. Price 25 cents. Ladies' Science of Etiquette; Atnl complete Hand-Book of the Toilet. By Countess De Calabrella. 25 cents.   The Complete Kitchen and Fruit Gardener. A work that all that have a garden should Qwn. Price 25 cents. 'The Complete Plorist; or, Flower Gardener. The best work on the subject ever published. Price 25 cents. Knowhson's Complete PFar rier, or Horse Doctor. All that own a horse should possess this book. Price 25 cents. Knowlsones Complete Cattle I or, Cow Doctor, Whoever owns a cow should have this book. 25 ct Arthurs Receipts for Putt ting up Fruits & Vegetable  in Summer to Keep. 12Y cts.   DR. HOLLICK'S WORKS.   Ir. Hollickys Anatomy     and Physiology; with a large Dissect- 9e Plate of the Human Figure. $1.25.   Dr. Hollieks Family Phys,. cian. A Pocket Guide for Every, , body. Price 25 cents.   WORKS BY THE 1MOST POPULAR AUTHORS.   Robert Oaklankds; or, The Outcast Orphan. By Leitch Ritchie, author of ' "Robbe- of the Rhiue." Price 25 cts. Wloredun. A Tale of 1210. By Sir \Walter Scott, Bart., author of "Waver- ly,"' "Ivanhoe," etc. Price 50 cents. The TwIvo Cousins. By P. Hamil- ton Myers, author of "Bell Brando'," etc. One vol., cloth. Price $1.00. Courltenny Hall. A True Tale of Virgilnia Life. By Janes T. RIandolph, Esq. One volnume, cloth. Price $1.00. Wilfred  Montressor; or, New York Life Expsed ; or the Exposition of the Secret Order ,of the Seven. Illus- trated withl 87 Illustrative Engravings. Two volumrnes. Price $1.00. Salathitel. By Rev. George Croly. Price 50 cents. Aristocracy; or, Life among the Upper Ten. Price 5)0 cents.   Henry Clay's Portrait. By Kagle. Size 22 by 30 in. Price $1.00 a copy. Originally sold at $5.00 a copy. The Mniser's Heir. By P. H. Myers. Price 50 cents in paper cover; or 76 cents in cloth gilt. Tom   Racquet; and His Thr Maiden Aunts. Price 50 cents. The Two Lovers. A Dometiid Story. Price 50 cents. Arrah Nell. A Novel. By G. P. R Jamries. Price 50 cents. Sketches in Ireland.     ByW. M. Tlhackeray. Price 50 cents. Thle Coquette. One of tho best books ever written. Price 5( cents. The Orphani Sisters. A beauti ftil book. Price 3S cents. Victims of Anlusemlents. Ey Maitrtliha Clark. Suitablle for Sunday Scliools. One volume. cloth. 38 cts.   GEORGE SAND'S WORKS.   Consnelo. By GPrge Sand.   Trans- lated from the Frelnchl, iy Fayette Robinson. Complete tnd unabridged. One volume. Price Fifty cents. Countess of Rndolstadt.. Thle Sequel to "Conllelo,. " Trauslated from the origiual French. Only Conm- plete and unll:lridged edition. One volume. Price 50 cents.   Indianla. By author of "Consnelo," etc. A very bewitching and interesting work. Two vols., paper cover. Price $1.00; or in one vol., cloth, for $1.25. First and True Love. By George Sand, autlhor of "Consuelo," "Indi- ana, "etc. Illustrated. Price 50 cents. The Corsair.    A Venetian Tale Price 25 cents.   CHRISTY &, WOOD'S SONG BOOKS. No music is so generally esteemed, or songs so frequently sung and listened to with so much deliglit, as is the music and the songs of the Ethiopian Minstrels They have commenced a new epoch in Music, and the best works relating to them are those mentioned below. Each Book contains near Seventy Songs.   Christy & W, ood's Song Book. Illustrated. Price 12kL cents. The Meledeon   Song Book. Price 12% cents. The  Plantatiol   Melodies. Price 122 ceunts. The Ethiopian Song Book. Price 12ks cents.   The Serenwaders' Song Book. Price 12Y, cents. Christy  and  'Vllite's Com- plete Etlhiopitan    lMelodies, containing the whole of these five song books, are beautifthy bound in one  large voltume, cloth, gilt back. Price Seventy-five cents a copy only.   REV. CHAS. WADSWOIRT'S SERMONS.   America's M1ission. A Thanks- Kving Discourse. By Rev. Charles Wadsworth. Complete in one large volumoe. Price 25 cents. Thiantkfulness alnd   Charac-   tcr.   Two Discourses. By Rev. Charles Wadsworth. Price 25 cents. Politics in Religion. AThanka giving Setrmon. By Rev. Charieas Wadsworth. Price 12y^ cents.   SIR E. L. BULWER'S NOVELS.   Falkland. A Novel. One vol., oc- tavo. Price 2') cents The Roue ; or, The Hazards of Wo- men. }Price 25 cents.   The Oxonialns. A Sequel to "Tki Roue. " Price 2.3 cents. Calderoni, the   Coulrtier. BP Sir E. L. Bulwer. Price 12Y centsf   WORKS BY .CELEBRATED AUTIIORS. Price Twenty-Fioe C(ents ewe h.   lysteries and   Miseries  of New Orleans. By Ned Buutline( Complete in one volume. Jack Dowhin'ss Letters. Bv Majo0 Jack Downing. With his Por- trait. One volume. Agnes Grey: an Autobiograpliy. By a ilt or of "Jane Eyre." Eva St. Clair. By G. P. R. James, autLor of "Richelieu. " he Beaultiftul French. Girl. An absorb .nr book. FenIsle Life in   New  York. Beautifully Illustrated. Ryan's  Mysteries of Mar- riage. Illustrated. Mysteries of Bedlamn; or, An- nals of a Mad House. The Orphan Child. Bythe Coun- tess of Blessington. The Molk. By Matthew G. Lewis.   The Ghost Stories. A Wonderfil Book. Illustrated. Madlisolns Exposition of Odd I'ellowship. Ablditnego, the Money Lens der. By MArs. Gore. Gliddon's    Ancient   Egypt# her Monumients, Relics, &c. Josephne. By Grace Aguilar, &l- thor of "Home Influeuce.'? Bell Brandoin anmd The Withered Fig Tree. A $300 prize hove;. Mysteries of a Conveznt. By a Methodist Preacher. Philip il Searlch of a Wife. An excellent work. Diary of a Physician. Second Series. Enmigrant Squire. By author of "Bell Brandon'."   HGHWAV5LTEN, MIURDERERS, etc. Price Tw/nty-Five CGents each.   1,ife of John A. XI1urrel, the Western Land Pirate. Life and Adventures of Jo- seph T. Hare. b Life of Col. MLonroe Edwards. Illustrated. Life of Helen Jewett, &d Rich- ard P. Robinson. Life and Adventures of Jack Rainn. Illustrated. The Robber's Wlfe. A Domestic Romance. Red Wing; or, Weird Cruiser of Van Dieman's Land. Obi;  org Three - Fingered Jack. Kit Clayton. A Sequel to Jack Rann. 1'omr Waters; or, The Haunted Highwayman.   Lives of the Felons. Beautifully Illustrated. Nat Blake; or, The Doomed High- wlayinl n. Illustrated. Bill Hor ton ; or, The Doomed High- waymcan. Illnstrated. Galloping Gus ; or, The Purse and the Pistol. Ned Hastingse; or, The Terror: cf the Road. Illustrated. Biddy Woidhull, the Beauti- ful Haymaker. Eveleen Wilson; or, The fridle of an Orphan Girl. The Diary of a Pawnbroker, Nine Illustrations. Silver and Pewter; or, Coutrast in New York Life. Sweeny Todd; or, The Buffia Barber.   REVOLUTIONARY TALES. Price Twenty-Five (Cents each.   Tta5 Seven Brothers of Wy- oming; or, The Brigands of the American Revolution. The Brigand; or, The Mountain Chief. The Rebel Bride. A Revolution- ary Romance. Ralph Runnion I     or, The Out- law's Doom.   Flying   Artillerist. A Tale of lMexican Treachery. Old Put; or, The Days of S76. A Revolutionary Tale. Wanl-an-gee; or, The Massacre at Chicago. The Guerilla Chief. A RomAuce of War. Pr ice 60 coUts,   SEA AND PIRATICAL TALES.   Pictorial  Life and  Advekn- tures of Juck Adanls the cele- brated Sailor and Mutineer. 50 ceuts. Life and Adventures of Benll Jlrace, the Sailur. Price 50 cents.   Thle Petrel; or, Love on the Ocean. A Sea Novel equal to the best. By Ake mniral Fisher. One volume. 60 cts. The Spitfire.   A Tale of the SeL By Capt. Chamier. Price 50 cents.   Price of the following ones, are only Twenty-Five Cents each.   The Doomed    Slhip;  or, The Wreck of the Arctic Regions. By lHarry Hazel. Tqhle Pirate's Son. Illustrated. 'The Thlree Pirates; or, The Cruise of the Toruado. 'l'he Flying Dutchnlan. Life of Alexander Tardy, the Pitrate. The Flying Yanlkee. By Harry Hazel. Tqhe Yankee Mliddy; or, The Two Friate s. Tqhe Gold Seekers; or, Cruise of the Lively Sally. The River Pirates. A Tale of New York, founded on fact. Dark Slhades of City Life. A Sequel to "River Pirates." Thbe Rats of the Seine; or, The River Thieves of Paris.   Yanlkees in Japaln; or, TLe AA. ventures of a Sailor. Re d Kinglg; or, The Corsair ChieRlin Morgan. the Buccane    er  0e, 'T'le Freebooters of the Antilles. Tac k Junlk  or, The Tar for all Weathers. Davis, the Pirate; or, The Free- booter of the Pacific. Vualdez , the PUiate ; His Life and Adventures. Jack Ariel; or, Life on Board an East IndiaiMan. Gallant Toln - or, The Perils of the Ocean. Yanlkee Jack; or, The Perils of a Pri vateersinan. Harry Helm    or, The Cruise of the Bloodhound. Hlarry Tempest; or, The Pirate's 'Proteg .   "ANGUAGES WITHOUT A MASTER. Price Twenty-Five Cents eac,.   French  without a   IMaster. In Six Easy Leasous. Spanlish evilholt  a  Itaster. In Four Ea y Lessons. German  vit hout a Master. In Six Easy Lessons.   Italianl withoult a Master. In Five Easy Lessons. Latin  viltlhout a Master. ID Six Easy Lessons. The whole of the five works are alsi bound in one volume, cloth, for $1.%5.   ' By Author of 6 WILD WESTERN SCENES."   Life and Adventures of Col. Vanlderbolub. By author "Wild Western Scenes," etc. 50 cents. Life arnd Adventures of Ned Lorn. By the author of "V Wild West- eiu Scenes." One vol., cloth. $1.00.   The Rival Belles; or, Life in WashVington. By J. B. Jones, author of "Wild Western Scenles," etc. Two vol umes, paper cover. Price $1.00; or bound in one volume, cloth, for $1.2o. (In Press.)   NEEDLE-WORK, EMBROIDERIES. ETC.   liss   Lambert's    Comiplete Cunlde  to   Needle-xwork   & Embroidery; containing Clear and Practical Instructions whereby any one can easily learn how to d, all hinds of Plain and Fancy Needlework, Tapestry Work, Turkisl Work, Per- sianu WXTIork, Chlelille, Braid, etc. ; Ber- tiu IN. tterns, Embroidery, Stitches of all   kinds, Lace Imitations, Mosaic Canvas, Canvas Work, Crochet, Knitting, Net. tinlr, Bead Work, Russian Crollet, Edgiurs, etc. ; Fringes, Scarfs. Shawls, Collars, Slipper s, China Purses, Braid- igz and A)pplique, nilplem ents, Varie. ties of Silk, Materials, etc., etc.; with "3 Illn.,tratilous and Dliagrams By 3Iiss Lamb1ert. Price $1.25, il cloth   BY VARIOUS GOOD AUTHORS.   The Iron Cross. By Sylvanus Cobb, Jr. Price 25 cents. Tlhe King's Cruisers. By Harry Hazel. Price 2,5 cents. ilartles Ransford; or, Love on BRard a Cruiser. Price 25 cents.   Sybil Grey; or, The Triumphs of Virtue. A Romance of the Opera. Price 25 cents. The Mysterious nMarriage. A True RomaLce of New York    Life Price 25 cents.   EXCELLENT SHLLING BOOKS. Price 124 cents each, or Eight for $1.00.   Cghristmas   Carol.  By Charles Dickens. P?rice 123, cents. Tlhe Chilmes.   ByCharles Dickens. Price 12y cents. Cricket on   the Hearth. By Charles Dickens. Price 12Y cents. Battle of Life. By Cha les Dickens. Price 12 cents. The Holly - Tree Inn. By Charles Dickens. Price 12Y cents. Sevexn  Poor  Travelers.   By Cllarles Dickens. Price 123. cents. Schoolboy, and other Stories. By Charles Dickens. Price 12 cents. Sister Ylose. By Charles Dickens. Price 12V cents. Lizzie   Leigh,  and -lMiners Daughters. By Charles Dickens. Price 12Y cents. che Itaunted Man, aid The GhoSt's Bargain. By Charles Dickena. Price 123i cents.   Mother and Stepmother. By Charles Dickens. Price 12Y cents. A WTife's Story. From 'Household TWords. Price 123 cents. Yellow Mfask.   From Household Words. Price 12. cents. Throne of Iniquity. By Albert Barnes. Price 12Y cents. 'Woman.   By Lucretia aMott, the Quaker Preacher. 1'rice 12y cents. Gatn e  of E echlre   a-Id  its Laws. Price 1219 cents. Dr. Berg's Answer to Arch. bishop lhsghes. 12Y cents. Dr. Berg's L ecture on     the Jesuits. Price 12Y cts. Life of the Rev. John N. Dlaffit. Price 12 cents. Odd Fellovship Exposed. Il1 lustrated. Price 12Y cents. Mormonism    Exposed. Faull  Engravings. Price 12 cents  ,   THE LOST HEIRESS BY MRS, EMMA D. E, N. SOUTHWORTH, AUTHOR OF  THE'DESERTED WIFE,"  DISCARDED DAUGHTER," C VIRGINIA MA MAGDALENE."' "CURSE OF CLIFTON,"' ' SHANNONDALE," ' THE MOTHEHN-LAW," ETC., E TC., ETC. Complete in two volunles, paper cover, Price One Dollar; o bound in cloth, for One Dollar and Twenty-flve Coents. READ THE FOLLOWING OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. "The excellencies of the ' Lost Heiress' are many and great. We regard as one of, if not the best, on the whole, of Mrs. Southworth's productions. F the brilliancy and point of her conversations, the ease and spirit of her narr tive, the splendid and graphic character of her descriptions of natural scener and the general power and originality of her conceptions, she occupies a fro rank among American writers of fiction. The moral is an excellent one -c, culated to do good to all its readers. The story is intensely interesting; ai while many of those who read it as it appeared in the Post, doubtless will el brace this opportunity to obtain it in a more permanent form, those that ha not read it umay be assured that it abounds in all the excellencies of its autho: vivid and picturesque genius. Mrs. Southworth's characters are not mere names, but existences: they live and move before us, each acting in accor ance with their peculiar nature. Beautiful Maud Hunter!-shall we see ai hear about you no more? Noble statesman, devoted wife, unselfish paren blessed and glorious ideals of true manhood and true wnmanhood--shall we more weekly dwell upon the story of your beautiful wedded lives? Ah! M Southworth, you have touched for us a deeper chord in this story, than in a] other you have written. Others may not have felt like us-though we kn many unite in these words of praise-but to us, the moral nobility and beau inculcated in this last novelet, give it a high rank among those )works of t imagination whose effect is to make their readers less selfish, more sacrificir nobler, better, and, in one word, more truly Christian. The work contains beautiful portrait of Mrs. Southworth; with a, fac-simile of her autograph, e ecuted on steel, as well as a view of Prospect Cottage, the residence of t authoress, on the Potomac."--Saturday Evening Post. "This celebrated work, by Mrs. Southworth, is her chef d'ceuvre, and cc tains a beautiful portrait of the author, a fac-simile of her autograph, and view of the author's residence. Mrs. S. is unquestionably a writer of gr genius and originality, and in the ' Lost Heiress' has excelled all her previc efforts. Her works have hosts of admirers."-Saturday Courier. Copies of the above work will be sent to any person at all, to any part of t United States, free of postage, on their remitting the price of the edition th may wish, to the publisher, in a letter, post-paid. Published and for sale by      T. B. PETERSON, No. 102 Chestnut St., Philadelplhi T. B. Peterson also publishes a complete edition of Mrs. Southworth's octa works : containing "The Deserted Wife," "The Mother-in-Law," "Shann dale," and "Virginia and Magdalene," bound in one volume, cloth. Pr Two Dollars. "Curse of Clifton," "The Lost Heiress," and "The Discard Daughter," are each published separately, in two vols., paper cover, price C Dollar: or bound in one vol.. cloth. for One Dol'ar and Twentv-five cents ea   VIOLA; OR, ADVENTURES IN THE FAR SOUTH-WEST BY EMERSON BENNETT, %XTHOR OF "CLARA IMORELANI)," ' FORGED WILL," "KATE CLARENDOo) "' BRIDE OF THE WILDE RNESS," S  WALDE-WARREN," PIONEER'S IDAUt I TERn,' ETC. ETC. READ THE FOLLOWING OPINIONS OF THE PRESS: - We have perused this work with some attention, and do not hesitate to pronoun s it one of the very beset productions of the talented author. The scenes are laid in Texas, and the adjoining frontier. There is not a page that does not glow with thrilling and interesting incident, and will well repay the reader for the time occupied in perusing it. The characters are most admirably drawn, and are perfectly natural throughout. We have derived so much grattification from the perusal of this charming novel, that we are anxious to umake our readers share it with us; and, at the same time, to recommend it to be read by all persons who are fond of romantic adventures. .Ir. Bennett is a spi. rited and vigorous writer, and his works deserve to be generally read; not only because they are well uritten, but that they are, in most part, taken from events connectedl with the Listory of our own country, from which much valuable information is derived, and sholltl, therefore, have ajtouble claim upon our preference, over thost works where the inucidents are gleaned from the romantic legends of old castles, and foreign climes. The hook is printed on fine paper, and is in every way got up in a style highly creditable to the enterpris ing publisher." "It is a spirittd tale of frontier life, of which 'Clara Moreland' is the sequel and conclusion. .lr. Bennett seems to delight in that field of action and adventure, wlhers Uooper won his laurels; and which is perhaps the most captivating to theygeneral mind of all the walks of fiction. There has been, so far, we think, a steady :emprovement in his style and stories; and his popularmity, as a necessary consequel:ce, has boon and is in- creasing, One great secret of the popularity of these out-door novels, as we may call them, is that there is a frelhness and simpllicity of the open air and natural worl I about them-firte from, the closeness, intensity and artificiality of the g:as-ligh ed world re- vealed in works that treat of the vices and dissipations of large cities."--Philadellhia ctzurday Evemninj t5ost. "t'lis is one of the best productions of Mr. Bennett. The scenes are in and near Texas. Every page glows with thrilling interest, and the characters are well drawn and sustained An interesting love plot runs through the book, which gives a faithful ret pre ewltation of life in the far South-West. Mr. Peterror. has issued VIOLA in his usual neat style, and it is destined to have a great run."--bVinton Tribune. i' "We have received the above work and found time to give it an examinat'ion. The escenes are laid mostly in Texas, and pictured with all the vividness tor which the au. thor is so celebrated. Those who are particularly fond of wild aud romantic advcutureas may safely calculate upon finding 'Viola' suited to their taste. It is well written and handsomely printed."-Daily Journal, Chicago, Ill. "' It is a very interesting book. The scenes of this most exciting and interesting Ito mance are found in Texas before and during the late Mexican war. It is written with much spirit and pathos, and abounds in stirring incidents and adventures, and has an interesting and romantic love-plot interwoven with it; alf is a faithful representation of ife in the Far South-West.' The author of ' VIOLA,' will rank amlng the most popular of American Novelists, and aided by the great energy and enterpriHe of his pub- lisher, T. B. Peterson, is fast becoming a general favorite." -Gazette, l/rineCec/, .. Y ", This thrilling and interesting novel-equal to anything the celebrated author ever wrote-has been issued in a fifty cent volume; and we- would advise every one who walts to get the value of his money, to get the book. Bennett's works are the most in teresting of any now published."- Western Emporium, Germnintown, Ohio. TH IS BEAUTIFUL AND CELEBRATED WORK is published complete in one largS vo:ame of near 300 pages, paper cover, price FIFTY CENTS; or the work is handsomely bcund in one volume, cloth, gilt, price SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS. Copies of either dition of the above work will be sent to any person at all, to any part of the United States, free of postage, on their remitting the price of the edition they wish. to the publisher, in a letter, post-paid. Published ard for dale by T'. B. PETEIRSON, et.- 102i Cxri tenist Gt rAae. IklLc  **-.   JB d  Read the Notices of the Press below. -e WILD OAT             OWN AB ROAD Price Seventy-Five Cents in Cloth, Gilt; or Fifty Cents in Paper Cove: READ THE OPINIONS OF THE PRESS BELOW. "This volume is the work of a gentleman of leisure, and, judging fro the revelations which he makes, he was educated with ' elegant desire and sufficient wealth to permit him to indulge his tastes. The sketch wh;ch are here collected are marked by spirit, vivacity, and agreeable d scription. The author writes with the ease of a good, clever fellow, wl always looks on the bright side of things, and who endeavors to extra amusement from the most unpromising sulbjects. His adventures a candidly told, and he leads the reader into many foreign mysteries whic most travellers avoid. His style is remarkably easy aud flowing. Y glide along without an effort, and he manages to keep up an interest whiz it is the good fortune of few writers to produce. The unknown author h hit the target precisely. Much of the spirit of the late John Sanders( flows from his pen, and his volume will formtn a delighbtful sequel to the agre able book of that pleasant and witty writer."-Philade/lphia Suclday Dispaut "In originality of conception, grace of diction, hunmor of style- classic allusion, piquancy, wit, and vivacity, its author stands unrivalled 1 any I light' writer, ancient or modern, with whom we are acquainte Whc ever buys the book and reads the opening chapter, we venture to sa would not part with it for ten times its cost, if he could not procure a other. We would remark, however, that some portions of the work a more suited for gentlemen readers than for all ladies, from the floridity the language, though even in its most questionable passages there is redeeming morality, and a beauty of style and sentiment."-Philadellc1h Saturday Courier. "It is certainly a v;iaciou8 production, and, with some objectionab passages, has many good ones. The writer certainly did not belong to t] nmelancholy or abstenmious school at the tinie he sketched the scenes al incidents of his travels. He seems to have been deeply imbued at th period with the Byronic temperament, which breathes in almost every lir The same versatile, don't care, dashing and off-hand style which ru through the letters and rhymes of the poet, is discernible in this new b anonymous candidate for public favor."-Petersbltrghh (Ira.) Intelligencer. "The publisher has made an elegant volume of these spicy leaves whil have all the pungency of the real ' Fanny Fern,' with the racy, free spir that bespeaks the travelled gentleman and the polished wit. Our reade have had repeated 'on and off' specimens of the manner in which the American ' Wild -Oats' were sown upon European soil, and- have no dou been heartily amused at the bold, original way in which our gentleman leisure went over the ground. That there may be no suspicion of partiali towards city customers, 5Mr. P. is determined to give both town and count a fair show, and so sends copies, free of postage, on the receipt of fif cents. In this way, ,41 can be promptly supplied with the gleanings fro the ripe old harvest fields, where love and philosophy, m sked balls, al monasteries, London sights, Parisian charms and Italian romance, flouri in rich luxuriance."-Philadelphia Saturday Courier. Copies of either edition of the work will be sent to any person at all, any part of the United States, free of postage, on their remitting the pri of the edition they wish, to the publisher, in a letter, post paid. Published and for sale by       T. B. PETERSON, 29              No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelwhia.   A NEW COOK BOOK, BY MSS LESLIEj FOR THE MLLION. MSS, LESLIE'S "'NEW RECEIPTS FOR COOKING." READ WHAT THE EDITORS OF NEWSPATERS SAY OF IT. ac This is a large, well-bound volume of over five hundred pagez, and includes in it over one thousand receipts never before published in any of BMiss Leslie's other works, accompanied by a well-arranged index, by which any desired receipt may be turned to at once. The receipts are for cooking all kinds of meats, poultry, game, pies, &e., with directions for confectionery, ices and preserves. It is entirely different from any former work by Miss Leslie, and contains new and fresh accessions of useful knowledge. The merit of these receipts is, that they have all been tried, and therefore can be recom. mended conscientiously. Miss Leslie has acquired great reputation among housekeepers for the excellence of her works on cookery, and this volume will doubtless enhance it. It is the best book on cookery that we know of, and while it will be useful to matrons, to young housewives we should think it quite indispensable. By the aid of this book, the young and inexperienced are brought nearly on a footing with those who have seen service in the culinary department, and by having it at hand are rendered tolerably independent of help, which sometimes becomes very refractory. The best regulated families are sometimes taken a little by surprise by the untimely stepping in of a friend to dinner--to such Miss Leslie is the friend indeed, ready as her book is wi'th instructions for the hasty production of various substitutes for meals requiring timely and elaborate preparation. The book is not, however, wholly confined to receipts in cooking. A fair proportion of the volume is devoted to useful information on all subjects whatever con- nected with general housewifery: the preservation of health, and the cleansing and keeping of articles of wearing apparel."--Philadelphia Dollar Xnewspaper, April 26,1854. "MISS LESLIE'S NEW RECEIPTS FOR COOKING- all kinds of meats, poultry, game, pies, &c., with directions for confectionery, ices and preserves, has been published by T. B. Peter- sou. It is entirely different from any former work by Miss Leslie, and contains new and fresh accessions of useful knowledge. The merit of these receipts is that they have all been tried, and therefore can be recommended conscientiously. Miss Leslie has ac- quired great reputation among housekeepers for the excellence of her works on cookery, and this volume will doubtless enhance it. It is the best book on cookery that wo know of."-Philadelphia Public Ledger, April 21,1854. "s We do not claim to be deeply versed in the art of cookery; but a lady, skilled in the art, to whom we have submitted this work, assures us that there is nothing lilke it within the circle of her knowledge; and that having this, a housekeeper would need no other written guide to the mysteries of housekeeping. It contains over 1,000 new re- ceipts,--which the author has fully tried and tested; and they relate to almost every conceivable dish-flesh, fish and fowl, soups, sauces, and sweetmeats; puddings, pies and pickles; cakes and confectionery. There are, too, lists of articles suitable to go together for breakfasts, dinners and suppers, at different seasons of the year, for plain family meals, and elaborate company preparations; which must be of great convenience. Then there are directions pertaining to the manufiacture and care of household articles, embracing laundry work, needle work, care of furniture, filrs, woolens, manufacture of various articles of use about a house, or in traveling, directions for preparing for a journey. a sea-voyage, &c., &c. Indeed, there appears to be. as our lady friend remarked, everything in this book that a housekeeper need to know; and having this book she would seei to need no other to afford her instruction about housekeeping .-Boston E1vening Traveler, April 25, 1854. "This handsome volume contains ample and important instructions for those who would understand the culinary art-an art practised, or abused, every day, in every household. It is a sequel to Miss Leslie's old book, called -"Directions for Cookery," and comprises a very large number of receipts, many of them from ladies at. the South, and others from France, fuirnishing specific directions for the preparation of every good thing for an elegant table, and also for all such articles as are required in families that live well, but moderately."-Christian Observer, April 29, 1854. A copy of this new, popular and celebrated Cook Book, entitled "MSS LESULE'S NEW RECEIPTS FOR COOKING," will be sent to any person at all, by return of mail, free of postage, on their remitting One Dollar to the publisher, in a letter, post-paid. Published and for sale by       PT. B. PETERSON, No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, RS- Orders from Booksellers, News Agents, Peddlers, Canvassers, and all others, will be thankfuilv received, and they will please send their orders at once, and they will bs   t  Read the Notices of the Press below.-as CLAMR MORgLAND g BY EMERSON BENNETT. Price Fifty Cents in Paper Cover; or, One Dollar in Cloth, Gilt READ THE FOLLOWING OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. A This is decidedly the best novel Mr. Bennett has written. He tells his story well iad bhile leading the reader over the prairies of Texas into the haunts of the wild Indians, or among the eqluilly savage bands of lawless men, that once were the terroe of that country; he Aresents the remarkable transitions in the fortunes of his hero, in a manner which, though often startling, are yet within the bounds *f probability. nil lalogue is golx, growing easily out of the situation and condition of the interlocutors, eod preienting occasionally, especially in respon.;e, an epigrammatic poise, that is worthy of all praise. The plot abounds with adventure, and presents many scenes of trtling interest, while the denouement is such as to amply satisfy the most fastidious reader's ideas of poetical justice. We would add a few worgls of praise for the excellent style in which this book is gotten up. It is well printed on good paper, and bound in a manner to correspond with the quality of its typography."- -Arthur's ffne Gazette. "This is the best of Mr. Bennett's books. It is a brilliant and thrilling production, and will particularly interest all who love to read of life in the West and South West. A love story runs through the volume, lending grace and finish to it. Mr. Peterson has issued the book in very handsome style; the type is new and of honest size, the binding is strong and pretty, the paper is firm and white, and the embellqhments are eminently creditable. Clara Moreland should command a large sale."--Philadelphia Oity Item. "On looking more carefully through this racy, spirited narrative of thrilling scenes and well-told adventures, we meet with beauties that escape a casual observation. 'Mr. ]mintt is a keen discoverer of character, and paints his portraits so true to nature as to ca   the reader with him through all his wild wanderings and with unabated nterest The author of 'Clara Moreland' takes rank among the most popular Ameri. can novelists, and aided by the great energy of his publisher is fast tIcoming a general Svorite."-JceUackin's MAodd &turday cntrier. "Emerson Bennett has written some very creditable productions. This is one of his longest, and is well received. Mr. Bennett is a tfavorite author with Western readers. It i illustrated and well printed."-Philtddphia Dollar Newspaper. u It is a tale of wild border life and exciting incident, bustle, and turmoil."-Phild. delphia North American. ". Mr. Bennett is, in some measure, a new man in this section of the universe, and, as such, our reading public are bound to give him a cordial greeting. not only for this, but for the sake of that wide-spread popularity which he has achieved in the mighty West, and more especially for the intrinsic excellence that distiuguishes his glowing, brilliant productions, of which 'Clara Moreland' may be pronounced the best."-Philadelphia Sturday Courier. '.This work is of the most exciting character, and will be enjoyed by all who have a cultivated tste"-Baltimore Sun. ' The scene of this interesting Romance lies in Texas before or during the late war with Mexico It is written with a great deal of spirit; it abounds in stirring incidents and adventures, has a good love-plot interwoven with it, and is in many respects a faithful representation of Life in the Far South-West. 1r. . Bennett is destined to great pcpularity, especially at the South and West. Ilis publisher has issued this- book in a vlry haln some style."-Philadelphit Evening Bulletin. "Thiff is a thrilling story of frontier life, full of incident, and graphically. sketcheL It is published in a good style."--Philadrelphia Public Ledger. "This Is a spirited narrative of stirring scenes, by Emerson Bennett. Those who love darinu adventure and hair-breadth escapes will find it an engaging book."-.Detrft, Yic/., fpaer. "It Is a thrilling narrative of South-Wostern adventure, illustrated by numerous ngravings."-Detroit, Mich., Paper. "It is a wondrous story of thrilling adventures and hair-breadth escapes, the scene of which is lail in the South-West. The book is illustrated with engravings repoeaen. ing some of the exciting evento narrated by the writer."--Detrdt, Nich., \lipwr. - It is a work replete with stirring adventure. Rtomancet, incident, and accident, ar l-lctrded together so as to form a highly interesting work of 334 pages."--Vew York Publhed and lbr sale ryF      T. B. PEI3TERSON, $1            NO* 10: Chestuut Street, PhiladelphiFm   "FE IN THE SOUTH. A COMPANION, TO UNCLE TOM'S CABIN. , "* ^  '*'^ ^  *ite , iW Complete in one large Octavo volume of 200 paps. Price, Fifty Cents. IBmbellished with fourteen full page, spirited Illustrations. designed by Darley, and engrvo. In the finest style of art, and printed on the finest tinted plate paper. Copies of it will be Rse to any one to any place. free of postage, on their remitting Fifty Ceuts to the publisher foi Kpy. Yublished and for Ble by  T. N. ?C eet, PERSON, No. 10J Chestaittt Street Phhadelphis   THE DESERTED WIFE. BY MRS. EMMA D. E, N. SOUTHWORTH, AUTHOR OF "THE LOST HEIRESS," "THE CURSE 'OF CLIFTON," THE MOTHER- IN-LAW," ' "VIRGINIA AND MAGDALENE," "DISCARDED DAUGHTERI, "SHANNONDn&LE, ETC., ETC., ETC. Complete In one large volume. Price Fifty Cents,' RF An THE FOLLOWING OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. "Mrs. Southworth is a writer of remarkable genius and originality , mnnis testing wonderful power in the vivid depicting of character, and in her glow- ing descriptions of scenery. Hagar, the heroine of the ' Deserted Wife,' is a magnificent being; while Raymond, Gusty, and Mr. Withers, are not merely names, but existences ;-they live and move before us, each acting in accord- ance with his peculiar nature."-Philadelphia Satur'day Evenbig Post. "' The Deserted Wife,' is quite equal to either of the popular works which have obtained for this lady from critical authority the credit of being a 'writer of remarkable genius and originality.' There is no lady writer in the country, who, in the exercise of a salutary influence ou domestic character, has written BO much and so well, or who is so richly deserving the admiration of the general reader. The complete works of Mrs. Southworth, which the enterprise of Mr. reterson is now sending out in a neat and cheap style, will, we doubt not, be sought after with avidity."--Philadelphia Satur.-day Coturier. l"It is one of the most charming works we have read for years. The scenes are located in Maryland and Virginia. This work should be read by all young ladies and young men; and if its teachings should be followed, we should have in our courts fewer divorce cases, and in married life less unhappiness. The characters in this work are all original. Mr. Withers is strikingly original, and Hagar, the heroine of the work, is both original and magnificent. We have read the story with great satisfatction."-Suolday Newis, Boston, Ma8s. "It is a novel of unusual power and of thrilling interest. The scene is laid :,n one of the Southern States, and the story gives a picture of manners and customs among the planting gentry, in an age not far removed backward from the present. The characters are drawn with a strong hand. The purpose of the author professedly is to teach the lesson, 'that the fundamental causes of unhappiness in a married life, are a defective moral and physical education- and a premature contraction of the matrimonial engagement."-Troy Whig. 'The Deserted Wife,' is a work of unusual power and thrilling interest. Weo can cordially recommend this work to our lady readers, as worthy of perusal."-Cincilnnati Daily Times. Copies of the above work will be sent to any person at all, to any part of th, U aited States, free of postage, on their remitting Fifty Cents to the publisher in a letter, post-paid; or two copies will be sent for One Dollar. Published and for sale by      T. H1. PlETERSON, No. 102 ('Cestnut St., Philadelphia. T. B. Peterson also publishes a complete edition of Mrs. Southworth's octave works: containing "The Deserted Witife," "The Mother-. n-Inaw," "Shannon. dale," and "Virginia and Malgdalene," neatly bound in one volume, cloth. Price Two Dollars. "Curse of Clifton," and "The Discarded Daughter," are each published separately, in two volumnes, paper cover, price One Dollar; or bound in one volume, cloth, gilt, for Ono Dollar and Twenty-five Cents each.   THE ROMAN TRAIT03 'OR, THE DAYS OF CICERO, CATO AND CATALINE, BY HENRY WILLIAM HERBERT AUTHOR OF   "CRO'MWELL,   " cTHE BROTHERS,)   ETC. TIilS SPLENDID WORIK is published complete in two large volumes, of or zpages each. paper cover, price FLI FTY CENTS a volume, or the whole. work is omiDly bound in one volume, cloth, price ONE DOLLAIR AND TWENTY-FIVE CI This is one of the most powerful olnman stories in the English laiguage, an( its.,lf sufficient to stalmp the writer as a powerful man. The dark intrigues ( dnyys which Caesar, Sall ust, and Cicero miade ill ustrious; when Cataline defied and a d:,fi,-atted the Senate; when the plots which ultimately overthrew the Roman Re were being formetd, are described in a masterly manner. The book deserves a ) nnt position by the side of the great Belluar, Catalinariumz of Sallust, and, if we m not, will not fail to occupy a prominent place, among those produced in America. HREAD THE FOLLOWING OPINIONS OF THE PRESS ABOUT From the P/liladelphia Evenzi g Bulletin, of September 3rd 1853 "Since the publication of Tl'he Last Days of Pompeii,' no fiction of classic tim appeareld at call qdll to this. 'he period chosen by Mr. Herbert is even better than tlat selv(cted by 1Bulwer, both to delineate the manners of ancient Rome a enchain the attention of the reader. Thoroughly conversant with the age of wh writes, practised as a moralist, and enthusiastic in his subject, our author has, i work, executed his master-piece, and may well challenge for it intelligent critici well 'as popular applause The character of Cataline, the hero of the volume, i seulse at least il which I Balfonr of BTurley ' is the hero of ' Old Mortality,' is boldl artistically drawn, not indeed in the dark colors of dFqllust, but in the milder which more Catholic historians nlave used. There are so tew books in the lan which the scholar and ordinary reader can alike peruse with plaequro, that Mr. II nlmay fairly consider himself entitled to the very highest praise for his successfu duction, in ' The Roman Traitor,' of such a work. The publisher has issued the ne a handsome style, bound in embossed cloth, so pleasant to all who love pleasant b From the Baltimore Republictn and Argus, of Sept. 2d, 1853. ( This is the title of a new and powerfully written story from the pen of H. W bert.. which of itself would place the author among the first writers of the day Iferbcrt is already well known as an author of no common merit, and this must give him a permanent place in the front rank of the literary men of th( It i r a bock which may be placed in the library of every man, and will be often re to with pleasure. The book hlas been published -by T. B. P'eterson, and is put u] sty le stited to the character of the work, and is altogether an interesting and han vol ulle." ro'om the Plhiladelpgia Dollar Newspaprr, of Sept. 7th. 1853 "This is a work calculated to excite a lively interest in literary circles. Romr tory ever ha s a elhlrm ftr the youthffll inquirer aftl c. knowhedgr. anid l-y k historical facts steadily in vi(w. the garb of fiction, without material uetrimpn grealtly add to the numnber of readders. In the story which the author hbas woven the principal incidents in the life and history of Cataline, he claims to have 1ad scrupulously to da(ites, facts, and the hist)rieal characters of the individuals inttro( rLt, great aim of the .author is to popularize the incidellnts of Roman history. a avoidilg the cnlmon errors of writers in the same field, wlho have precedted hi al'lraring learned, to bring his matter down to the comprelhetlsion of the nmass  renading public. He has aim,.d less at portraying Greekls and llornmans, than at det mrt--assumlingr that in all ares '-the human heart is still the human heart, cton3 by the same passions, chilled by the same griefs, burning with the same joys, a] 'the main, actuated by the saime hopes and fears,'  Price for the complete work, in two volumes, in paper cover. One Dollar cnly fin r edition, printed on thicker anl better paper, and handsomely bound in one vc muslin, gilt, is published for One Dollar and Twenty-five Cents. Coprics of either edition of the work will b$ sent to any person at all, to any p the: United States, free of postage, on their remitting the price of the edition they to the publisher, in a letter, post-paid. Published and for sale by T. B. PE E' ERSON, 17            No. 102 Chestnut Strevt, Philttdclpla   TIE FORGED WILL. BY EMERSON BENNETT, AUTHOR OF "CLARA MORELANI)," "VIOLA "    PLONEER'S DAUGHTER," ETO THS CELEBRATED AND BEAUTIFUL WORK is published complete in one larne Volume, of over 300 pages, paper cover, price FIFTY CENTS; or the work is handmlnej bcunT in one volume, cloth, gilt, price ONE DOLLAR. ONE IIUNDtIED TIIOUSAND COPIES OF TIIE FORGED WILLI will be sold in a short time, and it will have a run and popularity second only to Uncle Tem's Cabiol ITbe Press everywhere are unanimous in its praise, as being one rf the most powerfully written works in the language. THlE FORO(ED WILL is truly a celebrated work    It has been running thrcugl the columns of the Philadelphia Dollar Newspaper, where it has been appearing for ten weeks, and has proved itself to be one of the most popular nouvelettes that has ever appeared in the columns of any newspaper in this country. Before the fourth paper ap- peared, the back numbers, (although several thousand extra of the three former n umbers were printed,) could not be obtained at any price, and the publishers of the paper were forced to issue a Supplement sheet of the first three papers of it, for new subscribers to their paper, which induced the publisher to make an arrangement with the popular author to bring it out in a beautiful style for the thousands that wish it in book form. If Emerson Bennett had never written his many delightfill and thrilling stories of border life, of prairie scenes, and Indian warfare, this new story of the ' FORGED W'ILL' "ould have placed his name on the record as one of the best of American novelists. The oenes, principally, of this most caltivating novel, are laid in the city of New York; and most glowingly the author pictures to us how the guilty may, for a time, escape the justice of the law, but only to feel the heavy hand of retribution sooner or later; how vice may, for a time, triumph over virtue, but only for a time; how crime may lie con. eealed, until its very security breeds exposure; how true virtue gives way to no temp- tation, but lears the ills of life with patience, hoping for a better day, and rejoices triumphant in the end. In short, from base hypocrisy he tears the veil that hides its huge deformity, and gives a true pict ure of life as it exists in the crowded city. We do cordially retommend this book tor its excellent moral. It is one that should be tirculatl, for it must do gA t. Price/for the complete work, in one volume. in paper cover, Fifty Cents only; or a finer edition, printed on thicker and better paper, and handsomely bound in one volume, muslin, gilt, is published for One Dollar. T. b. PETERSON also publishes the following works by Emerson Bennett, either or all of which will be sent by mail, free of postage. to, any one, on receipt of the price: annexed to them. All should send for one or more of them at once. ho one will ever regret the money svnt. CLARA    l1OR ELAND; or, Adventures in the Far Snoth-West. By Emerr Bennett, autlhor of tlt 'The Forged Will," ' \V;lna." etc. Th s li: proved to be one of the nmost I)opular anil pIowerful nlluvclettals ev,r written in Amleric;, 33G8 pages. Price rifty Cents in papelr r , rs, or );!"lONE D LA  in l,llI. gilt. TITi E I,!ONKEER'S DA IUGHTER. Ily Kincrron Bennett, author of "Clara Mornlatnd,' Forged Will." *tc. Price 50 ents. W   A LDO -W  A RRlt EN a Tale o0 C'ircumstanti:l vidence. By EmaerscL HBe Bett. author of ' \Viola." "P'ioneer's DaughLter," t tc. I'rice( 25); c(ents. V10I A! or, Advelnttlres in the!"ar South-W\'est. Jy ;Illersoln Bennett, author of M* re i'ioneer's Daughter," .' Waldo-W\arren." etc. I'rice 50 cents. Copies of either edition of the above works will be sent to any person at all, to ant p   of the United States, freeor postage, oil their remitting the ,rce of the edition they ru  -to the publi,'her, in a letter, post ;paid. Publish l1 anwl!br Salo bv T. B. PE1"ER'1 (ON, lo. lua Chestnutn Stiect.!rtitdelDhlt  THE INIITALS : A STORY OF MODERN LIFE Complete In two vols., paper cover, Price One Dolias t * bound in one voi., cloth* Price One Dollar and Tqwenty-Five Cents a copy. T. B. PETERSON, NO. 102 CHESTNUT STREET, PHLADELPHA, oas just published this celebrated and world-renowned work. It will be fiund on perusal to be one of the best, as it is one of the most celebrated works ever published in the English language, and will live, and oon tinue to be read for generations to come, and rank by the .ide of X Walter Scott's celebrated novels. READ THE TABLE OF CONTENT's   MOAPTER I. The Letter. II. The Initials iII. A. Z. - - Tv. A Walk of no common De- scription. v. An Alp. vi. Secularized Cloisters. vu. An Excursion, and Return to the Secularized Cloisters* vIn. An Alpine Party. Ix,. Salzburg. , x. The Return to Munich. xi. The Betrothal. xII. Domestic Details. XIiI. A Truce. xxv. A New Way to Learn German. xv. The October Fete. A Lesson on Propriety of Conduct. xvr. The Au Fair. The Supper. xvii. Lovers' Quarrels. xvIII. The Churchyard. xtx. German Soup. xx. The Warning. xxi. The Struggle. xxII. The Departure. xxJlH. The Long Day. xxiv. T'ho Christmas Tree, and Mdidnight Mass.   CHAPTgR xxv. The Garret. XxvI. The Discussion. xxvIi. The Sledge. xxvIni. A Ball at the Museum Olu. xxix. A Day of Freedom. xxx. The Masquerade. xxxi. Where is the Bridegroom I xxxII. The Wedding at Troisieme. xxxIii. A Change. xxxxv. The Arrangement. xxxv. The Difficulty Removed. XxxvI. The Iron Works. XXXVI. An Unexpected Meeti-ng and its Consequences. xxxvul. The Experiment. xxxsrx. The Recall. XL. Hohenfels. XLI. The Scheiben-Schiessen, (Target Shooting-Match.) XLII. A Discourse. XLIII. Another kind of Discourpe. XLIV. The Journey Home Cam mences. XLV. What occurred at the Hotel D'Angle-terre in Frank- fort. XLVI. Halt  --XLViI. Conclusion.   Copies of either edition of the work will be sent to any person, to ans part of the United States, free ofpostage, on their remitting the price ot the edition they may wish, tc the publisher, in a letter. Published and for sale by    T, B, PETERSON, No. 102 Chestnut St., PhlladelphUo Fra Thom all Orders should be addressed, post-paid.    (68)    PICTORIAL LIFE AND ADVENTURES S Of AVY CROCKETT. Z I! plete in one large Octavo volume of over 200 pages. Price Fifty Cent.' bellished with full page, spirited Illustrations, designed by Stephens, and engraved W unet style of art, by Beeler. It i the only complete an(d unabridged edition -.f the Iife of cmkett , ever published in the United States. Copies of It will be sent to any oue to any , fee of postage, on their remitting Fifty Cents to the Publisher for a copy. libshed and for Se' by         T. B.?ETERSON, No. 10o  Clesnut Street, Phlladelphlolwf   'TEE W A T C H                A N!" -. AN LNTSI'ESTING AND MORAL qoAttv. OF DOXESTiTU LIFE. One volume, cloth, $1.,25 or two volumes, paper cover, 1.,00o "And let u not be weary in well doing, r in due season we shall reap if we faIt not." READ THE FOLLOWING OPINIONS OF THE PRESS : thaa .t.... we  .f dra i a d to remarkably life-like, and the plot of the tale is of the m elt intdresthw/ le3fription. The moral it Inculcates is, that eventuial success awaits the efforts of those who earnestly strive to de TH  WATCA. N.-Tis work is deservedly opular. The reader finds in theiraephi t"wst natE fi ng fwers for his path through lhfe's weary journey.  "brhe Watchman') is safelyf 1 h0 d m' ..... jeaat ,has been boisterous, whose presentft is full of chaos a. ,d whs u, leuone. dTh XmW-book u o kindred character with The Lam plighter',-& volubme v-M,  Iforv  u charmingly told. It  abound  n i' dent d a-dven'ture, a d. i aractes re all he I l dralnt ond i 1 rameot fail elmeetmg w ith great succeu with the reading public.-Troy BIdtt. T. B. PEMSIN0N , Publiher, No. 102 Chestnut Street,Philadoelphi&   NOW IS THE TIME TO GET UP CLUBS!  3 CR B A T IN3TCE3a:EXTS :FOt 1S859 1 I PETERSON'S MACAZINE: THE BEST AND CHEAPEST IN THE WORLD FOR LADIES! This popular monthly Ma gazine will be greatly en!larged fjr 1859. It will contain nearly 100,' pHgt's; fromm 25 to 30 steel plateo,; and] a;bout 800 wood enlgraving s-;and all this for only TWO- DOLLARlS A YEAR. This ii more, proportionately, than any maga. ziue ever gave-hllence Peterson" is emllphatically Uffi-s   W            TOM(ga3S?3 iraia U11 9 M M)AA The stori-s in t Prtetrsoi" are conceled to be the best published anywh ere. The editors are Mrs. Annl S. Stephens, author of t Mary Derwent,"'* F xshion and 'Famine;" and  Charles J. Peterson. author of Kate Aylesford " '*The Valley Farm," etc.. etc.; and they are assisted by Alice COrey, by Franlk lee Bt-nlledict by the autilor of ' Susy L.'s Diary." by T. S. Arthur. E. L. Cli;ndler Moulton, Miehit;alle llolyokt, Vir-inia " Town- send, Carry Stanley. Caroline E. Fairfield. Ellen Ashton. F. L. Al-ce. E. Dewees, A. L. Ofis, anid all the miost ponplar female writers of America. In aiddition to the usual number of stories, there will be given in 1859, Three Original and Copy-righted Novelets, viz: JTT T.TAN: a Domestic Novel, By XRS. ANN S. STi;rHENS. THE OLD STONE MANSION: a Novel, By CHARLES J. FETMLSON. rrHELEN, GRPX ME: a Novel, By FRANK LEE BENEDICT. These, and other writers, contribute exclusively to "Petersou." Morality and virtue are always iucul- ated. Its COLORED FASHON PLATES IN ADVANCE, It is the ONLY MAGAZINE whose Fashion Plates can be relied on! Each numlber contaius a Fashion Plate, engraved on steel, and colored; also. a dozen or more New Styles, engraved on wood; also a I)tttern. from whichl a Dress Iantilla, or Child's Costume can be clut. withlout the aid of a mantuta-nlmaker-so th;at each Nurm- ber, ia this way, will SAVE A YEAR'S SUBSCRIPTION      Thle l'aris, London, Plliladlelphia alll New York fshiolns are describvd, at length, each mouth. Pattertls of Caps. Botkuet6, llead-dresses. &c., given. Its SUPERB MEZZ7OTINTS AND OTHER STEEL ENGRAVINGS Are bv the first Artists, and onle, at least, is given in every number. Its W ORIGINAL PATTERNS IN EMBROIDERY, CROCHET, &o."3tL The Work-Table department of this iMagazine is wholly unrivalled. Every Nunlmber contains a dozen or more patterns in every variety of tiIIcy work; Crotchet, Embroidery, Knittin r, Bead-work, Shell-work, IFltir-wolrk &c., &c &Cc. Occasionally, SUPERB COLORED PATTERNS FOR SLIPPERS. PURSES, CHAIR SEATS &o., are given-each of which, at a retail sttore, would cost Fifty Cents. ^V EJYTRRELY JREWt C1PfPK-^bOiK. The original household receipts of "' Peterson" are quite famous. For 1859, the author of these receipts has prepared atl ORIGINAsL COOK-BOOR. containing receipts for every - kind of dish, with directions for setting the table, &c., &c. Every one of these Receipts has been tested. A portloll of this-the best and most economical Cook- Book eser prepared-will be given monthly; aljd the whole finished witlhin the year, iUustrated with numerours engravings. This alone will be worth the price of 'Peterson" for 1859. The usual receipts, in aldition, will be given. NEW AND FASHONABLE MUSIC. A piece of Fashionable Music will be given in every Number. Also, Hints for the Toilet, Etiquette, and other Iuatters interesting to ladies. TE R MS-ALWA Y S   IN  ADV A N C E. I Copy for 1 year, - $2.00 5 Copies for 1 Year, - $7.50 1 12 Copies for 1 Year, $16.00 8 Copies for 1 year, - 5.00 8 Copies for 1 Year, - lo.00 1 6 Copies for 1 Yeatl, 20.00 PREMUMS FOR GETTING        UP CLU   S!-Three, Five, Eight, or more copies, nlmake a Club. To every pprson getting utip a Clubl, ani remitting the money, our Premium Album for 1859, will be given gratia. For a Club of 'rwelve, an extra copy Of the Magazice will bo sent. For a Club of Sixteen, an extra copy and the "Album." Address, post-paid,      CHARLES J. PETERSON, No. 306 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. AFAII1 Postmasters constitnted Agents; but any person may get up a Club. bpeci- imea n rr t aratuitouslv. if written for,    r        
         
       
   
