
    ----CITATION----
        Logan, Olive, (1839-1909). Olive Logans's New Christmas Story .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7112
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Olive Logans's new Christmas story 
            
               jC$t
F
F:
S
:i
kt
!I
f
d
6
1
- 4
at
i
l
t3
of{{
F4
Y
tf
r
_ yby (i(
ff
t
}}
xixs
rt
Ia
xv
i
1!
Z
tt r
es
t
f#
i%
i
:j
i}
14

6v

i
1

&amp;cc

OLIVE LOGAN'S
NEW
CHRISTMAS STORY.
JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.
I. INTRODUCTORY AND EXPLANATORY AND THEREFORE, PERHAPS, BETTER SKIrPEI).
II. ABOUT SOMETHING.
III. ABOUT SOMETHING .LSE.
IV. ABOUT NOTHING.
V. ABOUT NOTHING-SrORTER.
VI. SLIGHTLY SENSATIONAL.
VII.. SOMEWHAT RELATIONAL.
VIII. CONTAINING GOOD NEWS FOR ALL, ESPECIALLY FOR THE READER, AS IT IS Tixt ENI.
NEW YORK:
THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY,
119 &amp; 121 NASSAU STREET.
1867.

it
I
I


Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1866, by
THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York.

:
,
Y
I
F
,
S

T:.
INTRODUCTORY  AND EXPLANATORY, AND
THEREFORE, PERHAPS BETTER SKIPPED.

F
F
k 1
., G
t' =
13
G
i
' f
k Ry
B
t f
1 't

scene before her by repeating the one word
--Iboo-ful ! boo-ful !"
It was beautiful. Like all spotless, pure
and heaven-sent things, it was beautiful. So
long as it remained uncontaminated by the
touch of man, it lay in its unldefiled glory like
the down from an angel's wing. And now
that the moon was rising in cold and myste-
rious beauty, casting her steel-blue rays on
the blanched objects at her feet, the freezing
night air seemed to shut out sounds as though
they were too worldly to intrude on this
ghostly scene, over which the orb of night
presided with queenly grace. lBut this was
after dusk, when the darkness had sent good
working-men home (all except John), and
bad working men and bad idling le out u; and
had bid the weary seamstress rise and seek
relief from the fatigue of sitting, by encoun-
tering the fatigue of walking ; when the
reputable shops had closed and the disrel)uta-
ble ones had opened ; and when, spite of the
efforts of restless spirits to turn day into
night, and quiet into tumult, the general feel-
ing was one of rest.
During the day it was different. Then all
had been noise and hubbub and clamor.
The snow had fidlen on the paveeiint and in
the street as well as on the house and tree-
tops. But, alas ! on the pavement and in
the street it had been crushed and crouched
and blackened, till it no more resembled its
sister-covering on the house and tree-tops
than the noisy, bustling day resembled the
calm and peace ol night. Tme hurrying foot-
steps of hundreds of men and scores of wo-
men had trampled it down until the once spot-
less snow, as if ashamed of its degradation,
now ran in liquid blackness to the gutters be-
yond. Men, slipping and sliding over the un-
certain surface had " cursed the snow " and it-
tered oaths at it as if it had been a living and
sentient thing ; and women, contemplating the
bedraggled fate of sometime spotless petti-
coats, had stamped their feet with vexation,

IT was late one night in January (more
years ago than I think it necessary to men-
tion), and the snow had been falling heavily
all day. The beautiful white flakes had set-
tied down like an ermine robe on the ho'ise-
tops opposite, and hung, making a spotless
fringe of rich, colorless chenille, on the bare,
gaunt limbs of the trees in the park. Our
ash barrel (which had not been removed from
before our door for some days on account of
an unpleasant difficulty between the street-
surveyors and the street-conveyors), was
frosted all over with this white coating, and
looked precisely as if it contained a huge
wedding-cake covered inches deep with lus-
cious sugary  icing." Our little darling girl,
Baby Lollipops, who was four years old and
had never seen the snow, or if she had did
not remember it, called out to me in a clear,
sharp, high little voice, musical as the clang-
or of a silvery bell, " Oh, Mamma, look !
somebody's dawn and emptied de flour barrel
all over de celler-door !"  And when I
took the little sprite up, and, lifting her high
in my arms, showed her through the window-
panes that numberless " flour-barrels " had
cast their contents over the grocery-man's
wheel-barrow, and the barber's pole, and the
stationary news-boy's awning-covered tent,
and the lamp-post on the corner, and the
stone carriage-step before the Highuns' door,
and had even left a thin ridge on the old-
fashioned "scraper " before our own, she
clapped her chubby hands together and
laughed with glee and kicked vigorously,
thereby endangering her personal safety as
she sat perched on my shoulder, holding on
to my front .hair for security-and all the
while she passed baby comment on th  novel

'' F
X
{p
#j
S!
i t
*¢ Y
a
.i:
?
fa

Is -

JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

.
S"
Y
f

y  °y          ,
a 7

9
1 x                                        -
a


g
'
F
i    t
S
k.
}j
r
r
uS4! .
s]
f
i
V
.,
i
;,
z        j
_    ,  r
'  f
!'
1
-
:  "
,
, r_  f{ j
tj
}
4 i
F
9
:
,, ,
d
i
i
}
4
s
t   y   l
3 I$
i }f
iP=
.g
k
g
7

and tutted and pished with true feminine as- f
perity. The declining sun, had sent his e
adieux to earth in the shape of two cutting  f
winds which met and mingled, and called i
themselves a Nor' Easter; and Nor' Easter
laughed at the people as they muffled them-s
selves closer in their outer wrappings, all in- I
effectual to stave off the cutting, insidious
breath of the winter's night; and then, sud-
denly Nor' said to Easter " Halloa ! what's
this black water trying to escape us and run l
away down into the city sewers ? Let's freeze r
it!" And so the poor snow of the pavement
and the street was caught in the act of try-I
ing to escape, and frozen into a thin, filmy
substance, all cracking into flaws and fuller
of dirt than before ; while the spotless snow
of the house  and tree-tops looked down
wonderingly at her fallen sister, with some
pity for her in her heart it is true, but still
turning up her nose at her vigorously, for
society's sake.
It was past eight o'clock, and John had
not come home. The chops were done brown
and even scorched, and the biscuit-crusts
hard as a board, from staying too long in the
oven. The butter, which had been frozen
stiff by the cold weather was now running in
oily streams over the hearth-stone where I
had placed it to soften. Again and again I
went to the window, and shading my eyes
with my hands peered out intently into the
darkness of the night. I was not exactly
worried.  Oh, no!  It was an express under-
standing between me and my husband that I
was not to worry about him if lie happened
to stay out late. The chances of his being
run over by a street-car and killed, and the
chances of his being detained an hour or two
longer at his work were about in the propor-
tion of one to a hundred. Therefore, I must
never worry, And I did not.  Oh dear no!
Only I wished he would come, that's all!
I had just seated myself at the table des-
pairingly, having resolved, after many doubts
as to the propriety of such a course, to take
my supper without him, when suddenly I
heard the sharp click of a night-key in the
front door, immediately followed by the dear,
springy, elastic step I knew so well.
"Well, darling, did you think I was never
coming? '" said John in his cheery tone, hang-
ing his cap and overcoat on a peg near the
door. "Whew!" he continued without wait-
ing for a reply, "whew! isn't it cold?  Give
me my supper, pet, I am as hungry as a
hound."
"Baby's been abed these two hours.
What kept you so late, John?" I asked, bend-
ing down to take the butter-plate with my
right hand, and shielding my face from the fire
with my left.
" Tell you in a minute. Why don't you
give me a kiss ?" I raised my lips to his, and
he caught my chin with his right hand and
placed his left fore-finger in close proximity
to my nose. " Now, Nell," he said reproach-

ully, "you've been crying ! I see it. Your
yes are as red as "-and finding himself at
adult for a simile, he could only say-" possi-
ble. They are. You've been worrying about
me when you should not. You know you
shouldn't tease yourself in this way. My
poor little wife worrying herself to death
about a great, worthless-fellow like me."
" No, John," I answered, for the purpose
of reassuring him. " You are mistaken. I
haven't worried myself about you-oh, no--
not in the least ! "
I think this was about the most unmitigated
falsehood I ever told in my life. I had wor-
ried myself about him until I was fairly sick,
and no number of doses of valerian except
that single one of seeing John enter the door,
as he had now done, would have been effect-
ual in calming my agitated nerves. I don't
believe people's hair turns gray from agony.
For the last two hours I had seen my John
run over and killed by every individual and
respective horse-car in town, as well as maim-
ed by two trucks, and drowned off one fer-
ry-boat, and yet my hair was as brown and
silky as ever ! Never tell me! I don't be-
lieve a word of their stupid stories!
"In the first place," said John, stirring
his coffee and then drinking it down without
taking the spoon from the cup:  in the first
place I've worked like a horse to-day, and
old Williamson is just tickled to death with
nie. He says to une, says he, 'By George !
John Morris, you'll be a rich man some day,
sir, if you keep on.' And I don't wonder'
lie's pleased, for, oh, Nelly ! she is beauti-
ful!"
" Is she, John? " said I, for I knew to
whom.he alluded without questioning.
"Yes; if you could see her sitting the
water like a duck, and with her slender masts
cleaving the air and pointing to the sky as
though to remind us that up there lived the
Great Boss-the great, great One, Nell,
whose poor frail journeymen we all are.
Kiss me, my girl."
I knew this was coming. John .always
had to be kissed whenever he grew moraliz-
ing, reflective or theological; his great warm
heart was flowing over with love, and his
dear nature was one of that entwining har-
acter which finds joy in every outward ex-
pression of affection.
" I'm going up to kiss Baby !" And with-
out another word he departed on his errand,
leaving me in an agony of fear-lest lie
should wake her and give me a sleepy, cross
child to nurse during the rest of the evening.
He soon returned, however, having accom-
plished his purpose without any disagreeable
consequences.
" To-day we put up the figger-head. It's
a woman. They call her Amandy, because
that's the name of old Wxilliamson's daughter;
and he told the carver-fellows to make the
figger-head look like bier. But, Lord bless
you, it's oceans too pretty for that proud

4

JOHN MORRIS' MONEY.

JOHiN MURU
thing, with a stuck-up nose. It's a regular
beauty. Nell, it looks like you."
"Nonsense, John," said I. But I was
mightily pleased nevertheless. If he had
said I looked like the ship itself, I should have
been pleased; because I knew that anything
about a boat or a boat's gear was handsome
to a man who loved his trade, and whose
trade was that of a ship-carpenter, as my
husband's was.
" Well, all that kept me late ; and just as
I was coining away, worried myself because
I knew you'd be worried about me, I met
Mr. Williamson, who called out to me by
name. ' Morris,' says he, ' here's a letter
that I think is for you. The address is writ-
ten in such a scrawly little bit of a hand'
(rilliamson's fist, you know, is as big as an
elephant's) ' that I can scarcely make it out.
Still I think it's for you.'
It was for me, Nell," continued John;
" It was a letter from California."
'California, John ! Who do you know
in California? "
"It was 'from an old aunt of mine, who
went there years and years ago. I have but
very little recollection of her-except that
she was kind ,and gentle to me when I was
a boy. She was my poor mother's favorite
sister. Poor mother! Kiss me, Nell. Well,
Aunt Julia married and went away ; and the
next ,I heard of her was that her husband
had died, and left her a great fortune. Soon
after that we heard she had foolishly em-
barked all her money in a speculation which
proved disastrous, and she'now writes to me
to ask me if I can't give her a home for the
rest of her days, to shelter her old age from
suffering and want."
"And how did you answer, John? " I
asked.
"I haven't answered at all yet. I waited to
see what my little wife would say about it."
Iccrept up to him stealthily and, getting very
close, placed my nose under his soft whiskers,
thus bringing my lips almost in contact with
his ear.
" Your little wife says that so long as she
has a roof to shelter her, or crust of bread
to eat, she will share both with any kith or
kin of John Morris's."
I shan't tell you any more that he said, for
he always overrated everything I did ; nor
how he kissed iie and put his arm around my
slender waist (twenty inches my waist i ibbon
measured--ha ! ha ! just look at me now) and
called me " his darling-his true little wife-
his own dear helpmate !"  It was a good
deal of undertaking for us, dears, for we
were both young, and expenses were heavy.
All we had in t he world was John's wages,
though,.to be sure, we were rent free, for the
little band box of a house we lived in b~eloni--
ed to me, having been left me by my grai-
father. We hail, too, otir little child's future
to think of:4t had alwavs been niy hope to
be able to leave her something. But all coii-

t1S'S MONEY.                             5
siderations, even those of our child's pros-
pects, must fade before the touching appeal
made us by this friendless, aged woman.
Well, a letter was written and despat hed
-a letter inviting poor Aunt Jiuia to come
and stay with us as long as she lived, and en-
closing her the money to pay her pai:age to
New York (John had to work at outside jobs
to get it), and in course of time she came to
is-in course of a long, long time. One
could not get to or from California as one
can now, in a matter of three weeks or so.
It took months. The winter had gone and
the snow-flakes had melted, and the Alay
blossoms had faded, and then the June roses
came, and with them )oor Aunt ,Julia.  She
was a fragile, delicate woman of piast sixty,
with mild blue eyes, whit h positively beam-
ed, as my John's did, on every hinnm  crea-
ture on vbich they rested. 1er voice was
soft and low and mellow; and, alas ! alas ! I
saw at once what she said in her letter--hat
her home with us and on the earth, iideed,
would not be for long.
Aunty and I got on famously. Baby evi-
dently regarded this new comer as a valuable
importation brought expressly for her enjov-
ient. During the summer lays Aunt .Jilia's
life passoe1 pleasantly as heart could wish.
She and baby sat in the summer-house, which
John proudly called a " Bos-key," somebody
having told him that that was the Frendh
name for it. John built it himself, and I
trained the vines to run over it and shade it-
and if you'll believe me, in September, when
the grapes weie ripe (we had a vine in our
own yard), the great black bunches hung
through the lattice-work, and danced before
your eves and mouth as if they vere act mal-
-ly inviting you to eat them. And, oh ! how
luscious they were, too ! So ripe anl sweet
and juicy.
Aunt Julia spoke very little of her life in
California, and out of delicacy I rerr'ained
from mentioning it. On one subject she was
very bitter. Before she had applied to John
(knowing him to be poor) she hadt asked two
others, the sole remaining anembers of' her
family, to take her. They hail both relseid.
John came gladly forward. That was not h-
ing new for John. John was ready to assist
everybody so far as his restricted means
would allow ; but Aunt Julia (qhuh it inorin e
this fact, was as deeply grateful to her'ntphiew
as if the single act of'gotodncss in dhin's lif'
had been performed for her and hr alone.
As the winter advanced upon us, poor
Aiiuntv's health grew worse and worse from
day to day. Her eyes had failed her, and
she could, therefore, neither read nor write
noir sew.  "' What shall I do to amuse you
(luring the Christmas week, Anoty?," I ask-
ed.
"Talk to me, dear-talk to me ! yu talk
like a hook. 1 hove to heam' you tiall. T lalk
to sic."
"But I've got nothing to talk about now,

lit
ill

l1T% 1  Rf T C    a


JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

It
s
ty
i = EEE
Fj I
F{' i F
4S  s =
4
s t
b'
X:
S yy
s
F
s
r
t t,
ij
f
+ 's j

Aunty. We've talked over everything you
know,"                       11
" Then make up something fresh, dear-
make it up."
" I'll tell you what," said John, whose
voice sounded exactly like his aunt's, except
that her's was very piano and his thunder-
ingly forte-but they were both in the same
key and both sweetly harmonious, at least
to my ear! "Nell, you're such a wonder-
ful hand at telling stories ! I hear you tel-
ling them  to Baby all day long, about
'Once upon a time there was. a little girl
and she had a mother;' or, 'Once upon a
time there lived a good man'-a circum-
stance to be faithfully narrated on account of
its rarity. Now suppose you devote every
evening of Christmas week to telling Aunty
and me a story ! Hey ! What do you say
to that ? "
" That would be delightful," said Aunt
Julia.
"Will you, Nell?" asked John.
I said of' course I would, if I could amuse
them. I would do anything for that purpose.
They both knew that.
"ha! Ha!" laughed John, slapping his
leg as if this were a capital joke, "My
little Nell giving us an Arabian night's en-
tertainment. By jingo ! aint it jolly? I say
Nelly, will you.write it off during the day?"
"No," I replied, perking up my chin
with a consciousnessof rather a high order
of talent, hitherto unrecognized,; "no, I
shall compose them as I go on-that is, ex-
tempore."
" Do so.   Bravo !" shouted be again,
this time rubbing his hands together in quite
a frantic manner. "Do so.   Do it, X-'
anyway, and then it will be all the better for
Xmas-don't you see ? Pick it and peck it,
and mark it-don't you see ? and then it will
do for everybody-and me! "
The next evening was the first of the
Christmas week. I had been thinking over
our project all day, and when Baby was put
to bed, and tea over, we all sat down quietly,
and I was about to begin my story.
But, bless you! before ever I opened my
lips I saw that John had got at least a half
o' ream o' paper before him, and more newly
sharpened lead pencils than I ever before
saw collected together, and was ready and
eager to write down every word I said.
I protested against this, but in vain. John
would have his way. "I'm a reporter for a
newspaper," he said, Aunt Julia laughing at
his impudence. "I am obliged to report
your speech, madam. Every great party
has their speeches reported in the news-
papers-particularly--if not more so, in ours.
Our newspaper, Madam; our gigantic organ
with a Hoe's Stop.   The Daily Blower.
Circulation, three million !"
" Now, John, this is too bad !" I ex-
claimed, "You'll put me out !"

"No I wont," he replied, "I'll put you
in a book when you've done. Come now,
don't be cross. What's your first story
about? "
" Never mind," said I, still unmollified, and
wishing to give this " reporter" as little
" information " as possible, "it's about-
something."
" I imagined it would be," said John.
II.
ABOUT SOMETHING,
"You must give it a name, Nell," said my
husband. " Come, now, christen it at once,
and Aunt Julia and I will stand as spon-
sors."
"'I don't see why I need give it a name,
John," I replied. "I haven't thought of
one."
"Now look, here, Madam," said John
Morris, "if I do you the honor of taking
down your stories with the ultimate view of-
ahem-publishing them in book form-when I
get money enough, the least you can do is
to act on my reasonable suggestions. Every
author does that."
" Very well," said I, " if it must be, it
must, Call it
Roger Thornfield's Discovery.
What did he discover, Nelly ?" asked
my husband, laughing a little at my dignified
manner, so different now to what it was
when I was cooking batter-cakes.
"Listen, and you will find out;" I answer-
ed gravely
CHAPTER I.
" BY Jove, Hartley ! I believe you are
going to be the lucky one after all."
What! do you think she really likes
me?"
" Likes you ! You don't mean to say you
haven't yet asked her if she loves you? "
"No; and I don't intend to do so!
The answer was given in such a tone of-
decision that conversation at once dropped,
and the two men pursued their way in silence.
The chill air of a November night blew
around the sharp angles of the street corners
as the first speaker-a gay, volatile youth of
twenty-stopped at a door whose polished
surface, bright silver knob and knocker, with
appropriate continuance of spotless marble
steps, was the fac simile of the next house,
and the one next to that, and indeed formed
one of a row of bewildering similarity.
" Bless this stupid town !" exclaimed the
younger man, inserting a small night-key in

7

the shining lock-" everybody abed at half
past eleven! Good-night, Hartley."
"Good-night," answered Hartley ; and
turning up the collar of his overcoat, to pro-
teet his ears from the cold and damp air of
the foggy night, he quickened his pace till it
became nearer a run than a walk, and in less
than ten niinutes' time was warming his fin-
ger-tips at a cheery fire which threw out so
bright a glow that gas-light was quite unnec-
essary in the room-one which formed the
first of a suite of bachelor apartments.
A very handsome man this Mr. Arthur
Hartley, now that his overcoat has been re-
moved and his hat laid aside, showing his high
forehead, and his glossy hair, and the soft tinge
of his delicate, olive complexion, and the fine
silky black moustache and whiskers encir-
cling the well-shaped chii. Something of an
Italian face-soft but not effeminate ; an eye
which could flash as well as plead; and a
mouth a model of sweetness at times, now
set-with heavy lines, and drawn harshly down
at the corners. A man of about thirty-per-
haps a couple of years more; but in his mo-
ments of light-heartedness ten years of this
seemed to vanish, and the face of a youth
just Afage"was older than the face of
lr1 A1tur Hartley. .
The occupant of the suite of bachelor
apartments was evidently not in a happy
frame of mind ; for, flinging himself moodily
in a comfortable easy chair, he gave vent to
his annoyance by a series of ill-repressed
sighs.
Of course she loves me-" he muttered
in a low tone-" of course she loves me-
anybody can see that. She loves me madly,
devotedly, insanely. Curse the luck !
It seemed a strange thing to curse the
luck which brought the love of a beautiful
young girl; but doubtless Mr. Hartley had
reasons of his own for speaking as he did,
and for continuing in the following strain:
Curse this stupid hole of a town too-if
it were anywhere else I might-no, that 1
could not exactly do; curse the town ! New
York's the only place in the world fit to live
in! "
This was rather hard on London and Paris,
and Vienna and Brussels, the. which cities
are generelly supposed by their benighted in-
habitants to be quite fit to live in ; but as in
this country one's thoughts are free, Mr.
Arthur Hartley was quitd entitled to the
liberty of his opinion, particularly as it hap-
pened to be expressed in the solitude of his
own apartments and not before witnesses.
.  I suppose I must go to bed now," said
Hartley, casting a glance at his watch and
closing the hunting-case with a snap which
fell.onthe ear like the sharp click of a
diminutive  pistol-" only halfipast twelve
and going to bed ! Oh Lord ! how supremely
virtuous I am getting ! I wish I could see
what is goimg on in New York."

That lie could not perform this visual feat
seemed to be another cause of complaint
against a life in Philadelphia, and Mr. Hart-
ley entering an inner room, began divesting
himself of his coat and waistcoat in a drearily
discontented manner.
" I wonder if I dare go to see her to-mor-
row. Dare ! One dare do anything with a
woman who is madly, insanely in love."
He paused.
Is she in love with me ?
Another pause.
"Yes, to be sure she is," answered Mr.
Hartley to Mr. Hartley. " I wish I were as
sure of everything as I am of that. Madly,
insanely, furiously, outrageously, absurdly
in love with me. And I can do anything I
please with her. He chuckled at this and
repeated the words-" anything I please
with her."
Mr. Hartley did not quickly compose his
restless brain to sleep. Ite tossed in the
bed, and crumpled the white covers, and
twisted the highly-fluted pillow-slips in his
hot hands. aid chuckled exultingly at the last
little idea which had come across his fertile
brain.
He repeated it in his waking intervals,
which were many during the night ; and the
trim  little chambermail, who rapped at
his door at 8 o'clock I the next morning
and announced boots and hot water, uis-
tinctly avers that she heard Mr. Hartley em-
phatically asserting that he could do--" any-
thing-he-pleased-with-h-er."
CHAPTER IL.   I
IT is generally considered a fine tling to
be born rich ; and a fine thing to he horn
handsome ; and better, perhaps than either,
to be amiable and loving and beloved. All
this was Ruth Villemain, and a very lucky
girl she esteemed herself, when at the age
ofeighteen, just entering upon life,-its pleas-
ures and. its woes, she saw how unmnistak-.
ably superior was her position to that of
most girls about her. Her parents, both
rich, died before Ruth had reached her
sixth year, and froni that age till woman-
hood the girl had been made to feel how
great was the power conferred by fortune ;
and when, with this, dawned upon her the
knowledge that great personal loveliness was
hers as well, it might have been overlooked
and pardoned if herl head had been soiiie-
what turned by the brilliancy of her position.
But it was not so in the least. A more
beautiful character, joined to a more lovely
form and face, it would he dificult to find.
iundeedl, part of her beauty , was decrivedl
from her charm of manner. Such a shy,

f
3
't
l
t.:
_ F;
i
T
f

I

6


,
.f $
r
,  zE
3       ,
t    j
y.    .  ,
Ft
I,
t    : #
e   ; i
t "
f
t
ft  s
x  2
t
l
:
, ,
i=. ,,
4, t;,
°
{
; .
+   '   S
3 t
ft      i
  ;
!
y
r
.3
rE
f
,    ( t

JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

tender little way she had of supplicating
your friendship by a loving glance from her
soft, dreamy blue, eyes ! Such a warm smile
dallied on her rosy lips, parted just enough
to show the pearly whiteness of the teeth
inside ! Her form, too, more mature than
is usual with girls of her years, was molded
with a correctness seen but rarely now-a-days
in this, our age, when, bodily distortion is the
rule to which women must fain submit.
There was nothing very brilliant in Ruth
Villemain's mental qualifications. She had
been a good little girl at school, and learned
her lessons and got good marks and been
obedient generally ; and later on she had
taken prizes for lessons, and then at length
graduated. Not brilliantly at all, but she
had graduated; and, so considered, she had
performed the necessary and disagreeable
scholastic duties incumbent on a young lady
of her position in life. She said she did not
rely on her brilliancy to be loved, but on
the hopeful theory-that loving every one
herself, all would love her in return-as we
are told that like invariably begets like.
And it did in her case, very, very fully.
Not one of the many persons who knew her
even made the effort to withstand her power
-the power of love, and truth, and virtue,
and honor.
She had had many suitors and had reject-
ed all who had offered themselves ; but this
with so much gentleness, tenderness, even
affection, that not one among them had seen
fit to be indignant, or scornful, or anything
but just forever and ever her devoted friend
and loyal knight. There were many who
were this, too, without having offered them-
selves ; and among these was one Roger
Thornfield, a thoughtful, young man of twen-
ty-five, who had known Ruth Villemain to his
pleasure, as a child, and now knew her, to
his sorrow, as a woman. To his sorrow,
because he too felt the influence which none
could escape who came in contact with her;
to his sorrow, because he knew that the day
was not far distant when some preux cheva-
lier would come prancing by on his figurative
milk-white steed and capture the pretty little
Pastoral maiden, Ruth Villemain.
As yet, however, Ruth did not seem likely
to be captured. The figurative milk-white
steeds pranced on the scene and off, and
there was an end of them.
Seeing this, Roger Thornfield's great heart
grew light and joyous, and one day, survey-
ing his comely young face in his mirror, a
smile flitted across his lips-a smile of joy-
and he said gayly-" Can it be possible that
dear Ruth could-could-"
Here his feelings were evidently too much
for him, for his heart came high up in his
throat and choked his utterance.
Ah hope! hope ! springing eternal in the
human breast, what flattering tales hadst thou
been wrhispering to poor Roger Thornfield ?
WI~hate ver they were, they soon faded and

-died,'for Roger's countenance lost its bright-
ness, and an expression of anxiety-almost
pain came across the pale but manly young
face. "It is a hard thing to be poor," he
soliloquized sadly-" a very hard thing to be
poor-harder for a woman, of course, than a
man ; hard enough for a man, too, under any
circumstances ; but undbr these which sur-
round me now, to know and feel that the
iron hand of poverty has me, and will have
me forever in its grip, while the woman I
love is heiress to two fortunes, and can scarce-
ly be approached by a man in my position
without the fear of his being considered a
fortune-seeker, and as such discarded, of
course-oh, it is hard-hard-hard to bear."
That the man felt what he said was evident;
for he buried his face in his hands, and a few
hot tears trickled between his fingers, leaving
their traces too on the yet unfurrowed cheeks.
"Come what may," said be, rising, "I
will tell her that I love her. I will see what
answer she will make. She cannot-it is im-
possible that she should for one moment
doubt the disinterestedness of the love of her
old friend, Roger Thornfield."
How well he knew the path from the little
unfrequented northern thoroughfare. contigu-
ous to unpleasant railways and verging close-,
ly on the confines of nowhere, bounded on
all sides by roystering beer-gardens and
bare-headed, ill-kempt children-from the
place in fact which was his home, to the fine,
wide, well-graded thoroughfare running from
river to river, where stood the .house, one of
the legacies of Ruth Villemain, and now oc-
cupied by the girl and an invalid aunt-a suf-
fering and rather ill-tempered lady, who had
been transplanted from her native soil in the
interior of the State, to the utterly uncon-
genial atmosphere (to her) of Philadelphia
life.
" My dear," said the poor lady, in a con-
stant state of protest against .balls, and op-
eras, and dinners and theatres-" my (lear
Ruth, we never do this sort of thing in the
country."
" No Aunty, I suppose not," replied the
girl laughing; " hut don't you sometimes
wish you could?"
Roger Thornfield's timid ring at the en-
trance door was answered by a man servant,
who had been lolling in easy indifference on
a hall-way chair.
Is Miss Villemain at home? " inquired
Mr. -Thornfield.
"I don't know, sir;- but I'll see," was the
answer ; a palpable falsehood, for even as
the words were being uttered, Ruth's merry
laugh was heard in the drawing room.
The well.trained servant showed no
token of being diseoncerted at this incident,
but, quietly entering the room where Ruth
wvas siting, inquired, in his usual lazy way,
if " Miss Villenmain was at home-to Mr.
Thornfield !"
Miss Villemain answered in the affirmative

JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

at once ; but before the man had time to take
the message Ruth stopped him.
Wait a minute, Williams."
The man bowed and stood still.
"Oh no, no, Mr. Hartley," answeredRuth,
mn reply to some whispered words from that
gentleman, who was sitting near her. " I
can't send away my old friend Roger Thorn-
field."
Mr. Hartley bit his lip, and looked 6ut of
the drawing-room window into the conserva-
tory beyond. "Show Mr. Thornfield in,"
said Miss Villemain ; but even as she gave
the order she looked up uneasily at her com-
pamon.
"'I suppose you consider me very unrea-
sonable, Miss Villemain," said the latter,
when the servant was out of hearing dis-
tance.
Yes indeed," answered Ruth, laughing,
very unreasonable to expect me to discard
poor Roger, who never did you any harm-"
" Upon my word," said Hartley, assuming
a sneering expression not very pleasant to
see, " how poetical you are getting ! You
really recall souvenirs of Mother Goose !"
" What is it.
"Never did him any harm-
'Ah, yes ..
',-What a naughty boy was that
To drown poor pussy cat
Who never did him any harm,
-      But killed the rats in his father's barn-'
"Mr.. Thornfield ! "announced the servant,
opening the drawing room door to admit the
gentleman who had been the subject of dis-
course between Mr. Hartley and Miss Vil-
lentin.
" I am fortunate in finding you at home,"
said Roger ''hornfield, bowing.to the pretty
girl who extended her hand kindly to him.
Yes indeed," she replied ; "~ one has so
many engagements out, during the season."
"Bless ie ! " ejaculated Hlartlev with a
surprised air; '' is there a ' season in Phila-
delphia? "
'' To be sure there is, you rude man. I
positively cannot allow you to villify our
dear old town so mnch. Mr. Thornfield,
Mr. Hartley-Mr. Iartley, Mr. Thornfield.
Indeed, I don't know which of you is the
greater personage, and therefore amn in doubt
which name to mention first in ' introduc-
ing'"-
He is the greater personage who en-.
joys your greater friendship," said Thorn-
field, glancing i ip at her, full of the love which
was the ruling sentiuient of his life, and had
been for ten years back.
A  comipimueint from you, Mr. Thorn-
field! " said Ruth, smiling. " I never expec-
ted it."
It wvas quite evidenit Mr. Hartley also didh
not expect it, for lhe looked excessively
bored, andl even ill teimpe~red, at Rogrer
Thcornfield-.

9

There was an awkward pause for a few
seconds, during   which lRoger  Thornifield
looked very love-guilty, and Arthur Ilartley
continued to look very bored.
At lenrth Mr. iartlev rose and said,
" liss Villemain, I take myleave."
" Must you go ? " said sher rather an x-
iously, or so it seemed to, oger.
l 1I Ceeme fist.," rieihid IHa rtley, withIia
slight inclination of thme head iateiiection
of TLhornfield.
Ruth blushed as she remiembelr-ed ll' om)-
ventional mile, and how  completely she had
overlooked it in her desire to keep 1lartley
by her side.
She rose, and her soft haud lingered a little
while in his as he was goine  loe' Tihor-
field looked at them as thn stood Itogetl-i,
and, although he was not aniv too well leased
at finding a stranger with  uth on the very
dav lie had come to maulo his love-avowal, he
was too generous a fellow to deny in his owwn
heart that this new com r was a most  ril
liant specimen of early manihood.   I lnuu-
some, that was evident ; witv, douiht less -
rich, perhaps-altogether a verv f-sinatin
person. Was Ruth fasiinateI    Oh ino, no,
thought poor Roger,itt -ainot Ie.
It seemed something   like it though, for
when the door closed miRuth spranu to the
window and ptlling aside ihe enriiain, ie
claimed  " Oh, dear! C(ome look at Mr.
Hartley's tirap, Mr. 'L'horn tiitl] "  T
Rorm':'ast a glance-at t hi a- m -i mig 1i-
page in which Mr. IIartley jinpe l taking.
the reins from a knowiignroom iiattired in a
livery of irreproachahlhvgod taste
" hIe is saving soinithlin u," said Ruth, as
Mr. Hartlev'touched his ht, aid ldaushed oll
at a rattling pace.  I wish I knew what Ihe
said," sighed she, coming :way t i'um1 t e win.
dow.
The groom coubl have toll her; for lo
told the smart chiamie uurmid at  M1r. 11'aiiiIs
lodgings that when t1,hat gentlemnan1 let1 2li
Villemiin's ho repeated  o om- - ree timeu-s
over, that lie could do-" any-thin-be
pleased-wit h-her !
S(Charming person ; did you not think so,
M r. Thliornfi' eil '  sam  ithis'sili'  ith, s
ing  hiers(lf abistractedlrl i it  li  piano,  -itl
neirvinisly running heriinige's over the  Ie -
"Ruth," answered til young iiiani looking
steadfastly in lieri face, " we have know
each other ten years, aid this is the first lay
I ever heard you call me 3/r. /wgida/cl
Will von tell me the reason of it :''
"   ihvi. there is no reson at all-thatis
not partielarly-only hebe strangers, It
'does not sound'so v-r fimuiiliar.  I can't ex-
plain to everybody, can 1I, tht I've known )i
Roger Thornutield ten year s an that heauns'
I've knownt Roger T'Ihorei-dII t eli i-ars I i(: II
Rhiger Thornimfie-ld IRo(flr' Tr/ui/ li   Tl'heiir -
does that satisfy youi 2-
lHe was tnot t logtie  szat inlid ; limt hb-u
tonie, haltbpe-tonlamitI, half-johking, rec-ass m -

8

0{


JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.              11

him in part, and succeeded in bringing his
chair closer to the piano stool.
" Ruth," said he, drawing a long breath.
" I've got something very serious to say to
you."
"Oh, Roger !" exclaimed the girl, giving
a sudden twirl to the stool, thus bringing per-
self face to face with him ; "oh, please don't
say anything serious. I can't bear anything
serious. Now there's Aunty-she's always
serious-you are serious. I must say I do
like Mr. Hartley, if for no other reason than
that he is never serious. He is always light-
hearted and happy and gay. I love people
who are light-hearted and gay."
Poor Roger ! He stood little chance of
being loved just then by this token ; for
his pale young face was the very picture of
despair.
"Ruth," he continued, nothing daunted,
" I must speak to you to-day. That is, if
you'll let me. May I?"
"Certainly, Roger," she answered naively.
What about-? "
" About---about-Ruth, did it never strike
you how very dear you are to me ? "
"Yes, Roger," she answered ; " you are
very good to me-so is every one about me;
they all love me-even Aunty, I believe-
that is, when she is well enough."
" But, Ruth, I don't want you to class me
with the general throng. I am a plain man,
and can make no flowery speeches. I think
you know that I am honest and upright and
sincere. So much I will say, although it
sounds like self-praise. And, Ruth, I love
you very, very deeply. I have done so ever
since I knew what love was-yes, and before
that period, too, when you were a sweet
young child, and I was not many years your
, senior-even then you were dearer to me
than any living, breathing thing on the face
of the earth. Now, since I have come to
be a man, I know that my whole life is cen-
tered in you, and that to possess your love
would make me happier than any king who
wields a scepter. I can't be eloquent, Ruth-
it is not in me; but I feel-1.feel what I
say, God knows how deeply ! Therefore,
clearest, if you can find it in your heart to
give me any hope that at some future time,
by devotion or self-denial, or what you will.
I may, oh, Ruth! possess your love, you
can change a life, which hitherto has been
nothing but one of sadness and misery, into
anexistence as bright and joyous as that of
birds flitting about in the unchanging sun-
shine of a tropical clime."
His voice had quite died away before he
looked up in 'her face for a reply. None
came.
" Ruth," he repeated, after a pause -
Ruth, will you not answer me ? "
Her only answer was a burst of tears,
which frighitenedl pour Roger to such an ex-
tenut that lie rushed to her, and throwing hinm-

self on his knees before her, begged her for-
giveness for what he had said.
" Roger," she replied at length, wiping
away the tears. "Ihave nothing to forgive--
indeed it is I alone who am toblame. I should
have shown you-"
" What? " he exclaimed, rising and pac-
ing the floor excitedly-" that the difference,
between our relative positions is too great
for me to aspire to your hand--that you are
rich, and I poor? "
"No, no," she answered quickly;- " noth-
ing of the kind. Oh, Roger ! why did you not
speak thus to me three months ago ? Then
my answer would have been different. Of
all the men I have ever known you were the
one whom I always preferred until-until-"
Her voice sank, and she lowered her eyes
as Roger Thornfeld stopped pacing the floor
and fixed a piercing gaze upon her face.
"Until what, Ruth?" he inquired    at
length.
She made no reply.
" Oh. Ruth," he said, " don't give me only
half confidence. Kill me if so it must be,
but do not let me linger in agony. Slay me
at once."
" You must help me then Roger," said
the girl, sadly.          '
"Is it," he said, in a tremulous voice,
that you love some one else?"
"Yes, oh yes," she answered-" so dear-
ly ! so very, very dearly."
He shrank away from her as she uttered
the words, and bowed his head in silence.
"You insisted on knowing, Roger," she
said, perceiving his distress.    "
" It is better I .should know," he an-
swered. "Will you extend t9e confidence ?"
" Yes."
" His name is -
" Arthur Hartley."
" What!" he exclaimed, springing up as
if an electric battery had touched him. " The
man who has just left us? "
She bowed her head in token of aitrma-
tion.
" Why, Ruth," said Roger. " I never
heard of the man before to-day. Who is he P"
" I don't know," she replied.
" What is lie?'"
"I don't care."-
"What is his parentageP "
" I never inquired."
" His antecedents?"
" I have to do with his future, not his
past."
" Then you are fixed in this ?"
"Yes, Roger, fixed as fate."
" You love him "
" Oh yes, Roger, more, much more than
I can ever tell you."
She clasped her hands together and cast
her eyes upward, standing for sonicnioments
rapt in the eestacy of a young girl's first
love. This being, it was tnot strange that the

emotion which was racking the breast of
poor Roger Thornfield passed without com-
ment or observance on the part of Ruth Vil-
lemain.
That is Aunty's voice," said she, as the
tones of a lady, complaining of the servants,
were heard in the hall-way.
"1Yes, Ruth, and I am in no mood to meet
Mrs. Whining. You must forgive me for
all I have said to you to-day. Believe me, if
I had known your state of feeling, I never
should have intruded upon you wha t must
have been a very annoying avowal. But
this much I will add to what I have already
said: howsoever coldly you may regard me,
my love for you will never change. It will
last as long as I last, Iuth, and that perhaps
will not be for a great length of time. Ruth,
you are without -male relatives of any kind.
Will you let me-me, your old friend Rog-
er Thornfield-will you let me be your
brother ?"
It was not a great deal to ask, but Ruth
hung her head and was silent for a moment.
At length, she answered,
"4Brothers are-are so annoyingly zealous
sometimes,. Roger."
"Do you fear that zeal which shall be di-
rected in a certain quarter, Ruth ? "
" No," she answered, vehemently. " Be
as zealous as ycu like; investigate, inquire,
probe, look into-do what you please."
" And if the result of all this is unfavora-
ble?"
"6Roger," answered the girl with great
gravity, and for the first time. seeking his
glance and meeting it boldly, " 1 love hin;
nothing can change ie."
And you will marry him?"
"Yes-if he asks me. He has not done
so yet."
There was nothing to be said, and Roge
said nothing. But he pressed her small hand
very tenderly as he left her, and, with hit
eyes blinded with tears, rushed past Mrs
Whining in the hall, without even so mie
as bowing to the lady.
How frightfully rude these healthy peo
ple are ! " said Mrs. Whining entering th
drawing-room with a languid step. "Now
my dear Ruth, there is your friend who ha
just left you-Mr. Rosefield-oh, no, I meai
Thornfield-and a very nice person too,I
dare say, only lie is so very healthy--so in
tolerably strong, my dear. Not that I alto
gether blame him for it, but he is made o
iron, Ruth. I have not the slightest doub
that a post mortem examination on the bod
of that young man would disclose nothing
but iron. Did you hear how lie banged th
front door, my dear? AL me ! a few mor
such bangs as that will lay me in my grave
Won't you  lie down on this couch
Aunt?" said Ruth, drawing tup a divan.
" Yes, dear-and if you would he goo
enough to fan me--that cushion-put it

little hiigher-also salts ; here, inrmy dress
pocket-thank you ! Not quite so violent
with the fan. There, like that-yes, thank
you. Do you know Ruth, dear, you are a
charming girl-so many delightful qualities
you know. But you have one which is per-
fectly invaluable to me. Can't think what it
is, do you say?   Well, I'll tell you-you
never thump chairs."
A bitter smile crossed Ruth's featiris, as
the langid lady sank back again on the
couch, crushing the rich paraphernala of her
toilette and making a coverlid of her gaudy
Cashmere shawl. Ruth plied the fai con-
stantly, however, and once or twice placed
the flagon of salts under the delicate nostril
of the invalid lady.
To tell you," said the latter, opining her
eyes, and holding on high a thin white fin-
ger literally sparkling with gems-'' to tell
you how I appreciate a person who does not
thump chairs is quite out of my power !
Why, do you know what my brother-your
poor dear father, Ruth-do you know what
he (lied of ? Ile died of the thunip of a
chair. He did, truly, my dear. Ile wasn't
very well one day, and some wretched healthy
person cane in to see hiu, and thumped a
chair, whereupon your father instantly cx-
pired. Can you now understand why it is
so unpleasant to me, to be in contact with
healthy people?"
 But, dear Aunt," said Ruth, in a tote
of apology, and as if the avowal was one
which reflected great discredit on herself.
" I am a very healthy person,"
Yes, you are, Ruth. But at least you
are a considerate person. It was the same
way with my husband, Mr. Whining; he was
a very healthy person ; save for that, he was
a gentleman. He saw it was impossible for
r so much health to get along with so much ill-
Iness, and one (lay was thrown off his horse,
s and died from his injuries. Ile never could
. have died in any other way, dear, he was so
h strong. It was rather unfeeling in hii, pci-
haps, to give me the violent shock of seeing
- hin brought home dead ; but the horse slip-
e pel, it appears, and therefore it was iiot alto-
 gether Mr. W-'s fault. I tilt his death, of
s course, very noueh ; but I must say I should
n have respected his memory more if he had
I not been so very healthy. Why, do you
- know, my dear," continued the widow, partly
- rising, supporting her dehicate frame on her
f elbow, and lowering her voice as if she werc
t telling some thrilling "'sensation " story, "'hlie
y never took a blue pill in his life !
g    Ruth bit her lip to preserve her gravity,
e which was always sadly imperiled    when
e Mrs. Whining began the recital of her ret-
" rospective wrongs. She felt, however, that
, it was incumbent on her to coincide in de-
nonnmg this reprehensible 'onli on tIn'
d part of the .defunct Mr. Whminig, anid was
a wondering in what terms she slioult om)1

10                JOHN MORRIS' MONEY.


JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.
her feelings, when her aunt spared her all  " Is my room properly aired, Louise," asked
further trouble by continuing:          -Mrs. Whining.
" In my opinion, people are very unwise  " Oui Madame," was the reply.
to marry. Marriage, Ruth, is so unpleasantly "You did not thump any chairs or bang
healthy. It entails, -also, such numberless the door while I was out, did you?
disagreeable events. The proprietorship "Non Madame."-
of a joint apartment, for instance ; could  "Very good. But oblige me by answer-
anything be more annoying?   You go to ing in a lower tone. Indeed, when your an-
look for your personal effects, and you come swer is to be a monosyllabic affirmative or
across the unpleasant personal effects of a negative, why utter any sound whatever?
man.   Boots abound- hats flourish, and When you wish to say 'yes' just nod your
trowsers hang their slow length along in head, with a slight courtesy. When you
every cupboard. And then the man himself, wish to say 'No' shake your head   also
Ruth ! A great rough, healthy being, who is with an accompanying courtesy.  Do you
legally licensed to kiss yow whether you like understand me.?,,-
it or not, and pull your head down on his  44 Omd Madame."
breast, thereby rumpling your hair !-an un-  " There, see how little attention you pay
pleasant financial machine too, who labors un- to my instructions! 'Why did you speak. j
dera perpetual state of " shortness " " down However, give me your arm and help.me up
town," which of course produces a corres- stairs. Stairs, Ruth, are a very unpleasant
ponding " shortness" in your own financial part of a house, but that's neither here nor
operations " up town."  Oh, marriage is so there. What I wish to say to you is this;
unpleasant, my dear-that's the only word though to be sure I am a poor creature, de-
for it-so very, very unpleasant."        pendent on  your bounty, (but know of
Ruth said it must be unpleasant, but as she course that my society is more than an ade-
had not tried it she did not know.       quate return for all that I receive) still I
"But talking of unpleasant things," said love you, Ruth. In the intervals of my med-
the invalid, her dull eyes actually brighten- icine, when 1 have nothing else to do, I
ing with the interest of the subject, "did it frequently think ofyou. And I often won-
ever strike you what a very unpleasant part der what will be your fate. Knowing man-
of the community little babies are ?  I mean kind as I do, my dear, I can only hope
even prior to the age when banging doors and pray that you will not marry. If you
and thumping chairs forms the amusement do, marry an invalid-a sick man, who will
of their days, and to a certain extent the keep his bed and won't bother you. Of all
pastime of their nights ; previous to that husbands, dear, I should think an invalid
they have stomach aches, and on their first would be the least unpleasant.  But my
entrance in the world, on the making of advice to you is, never marry at all, Ruth
their first toilette, pins prick. them, then -never marry at all."
they cry. I wonder, now, if some mathe-    Ruth Villemain heard the words and sat
matical genius or philosopher-or rather pondering over them for fully an hour after
some philanthropist-could not demonstrate her aunt left the room. In substance Rog-
to babies that crying is of no use in their in- er Thornfield had given her the same advice
fantile woes ! It does not relieve stomach -and now in her shuffling, drawling way
aches, neither does it remove pins.  There- her aunt had reiterated it. These two peo-
fore, why cry?  Do you not think this fact ple of all the world were perhaps the only
could be shown to any reasonable baby, ones to whose counsel she would hearken,
Ruth, dear? "                            or to whom she would give her confidence in
" I am afraid, aunt, the philanthropist return. Why was it therefore that their ad-
would have great trouble in making the ba- vice fell unheeded now, when before it would
by understand what he was talking about."  have been received as words of wisdom?
"  And therefore, my dear, therefore do I Because the mad fever which we call love,
say that babies, of all the human species, are had seized the girl's brain, and wrought
the most unpleasant portion - babies and there delirium  of the wildest kind. She
men, dear. Women, even healthy women, 1 loved Arthur Hartley ; for him she had re-
can tolerate. Ali me! I shall be ill from hay- solved to sacrifice everything-everybody--
ing talked so much. Would you oblige me by if needs were.  What was: poor Roger
ringing for my maid, Ruth'?. Pull the bell Thornfield compared to  himP What, her
twice-she will know it is for her. If there aunt?  What, all the world !-
is anything I can't bear, it is a great healthy Perhaps then, after all, there was not so
man servant tumbling in to know what you much braggadocio about it, as Mr. Hartley
want."                                   -at that very moment sipping wine with a
A white-capped, coquettish little French  friend at a fashionable restaurant-muttered
maid answered the summons, and with the between his teeth, thinking of Ruth, that he
dexterity of long pi'actice began assisting the could do-
lady to arise. " Any thing-he-pleased-with her."

JOHN MORRIS' MONEY.                13

7t
2
x
f
'k
i
.
d
5
3
1
1
, 7
i
i1
i
,i
z
r
i
a
_j
.{
i
t
Y
3
i
S
j
Y
J
5
1
9
i
2
a
1
s
a
1
t
f
a
i
9
i
2
y3
{
i
s
z
}
}
.

CHAPTER. III.
ROGER TIIoRNhIEL   left Ruth's presence
under the influence of two very strong feel-
ings. The first was of course his love for
lier-that neither her refusal of him nor her
passionate avowal of love for another could
change in the slightest degree. All hope of
ever aspiring to the bliss of being her hus-
band had vanished. She had said it could
never be, and thus he knew he might not
even hope for the future. But oh ! it was
heart-breaking to remember she biad said,
that had he pressed his claim three months
before-ere this man Hartley had crossed
her path --her answer would have been
different. Fool! fool that he was ! Why
had he not been less tardy ? He loved her
then as dearly as now; he had failed to
speak, a new sentiment had filled her breast,
and now Roger Thornfield's doom was
sealed.
Next to the overweening bitterness that
this knowledge brought. came an unquenchi-
able desire to know something more of the
muan who had succeeded in obtaining the
love of this pure and beautiful girl. It was
evident his history was unknown to Ruth
Villemain ; she in her blind love had never
inquired into his past, and would doubtless re-
sent what she called " annoying zeal," if she
saw any show of " probing Hartley's antece-
dents " on the' part of her old friend. This,
however, did not deter Thornfield from nak-
ing an imward vow that lie would not rest
quiet, day or night, until he obtained some
knowledge of the character of the man whose
wife Ruth -his sweet young friend, the
woman t(e so devotedly wor-shipped-lhad
avowed herself willing to become, and that
too, merely for the asking.
How was this to be accomplished  IHow
was it possible for poor young Thornfield,
without resources of money or power, confin-
ed by business the greater part of the day in
the quiet and respectable city of Philadel-
phia, to learn aiiy thing of the habits or
haunts ofthis gay New Yorker who had mere-
ly visited Philadelphia for a "1 joke " i nthe
first place, met Ruth Villemain by accident,
and since that time made a few flying visits to
the town avowedly. (so le told Miss Ville-
main's friends), of being near the lady whose
charms had had so potent an effect on the
handsome Hartley. Trne, he had taken a
bachelor's suite ofapartments and comfortably
installed himself, so as to avoil those "' hor-
rid caravanseries " the hotels, when he did
come to Philadelphia, which was seldom,
Thornfield's acquaintance im New York was
of the most limited character. A few steaily-
going mercantile men who did business with
the house in Philadelphia to which Thorn.,
field was attached, heads of .fa milies whose
lives wvere passed between thie busy str-eet
"down town," where they- tr-ansacted busi-

ness, and the quiet little cottage somewhere
out of town to which they retired after busi-
ness hours. It was hardly likely these peo-
ple could furnish any information of the
handsome butterfly man whose gaudy wings
had attracted Ruth. On application, Roger
found what he had fully expected-that no
one knew any thing about Mr. Arthur Hart-
ley.
Since the day of her confession to him,
Thornfield had never crossed the threshold of
Ruth Villemain's door  He ftlt, as vet, that
he was too unnerved to meet her. Besides,
what availed such meetings ?  Iartley's hold
on her affections was without doubt strength
enino every day, and Roger, powerless to
show this man iii another form than that in
which he showed himself, knew well that any
foreboding of a lack of honesty or upright-
ness uibacked by authentic proof, would be
laughed to scorn  by  the infatuated girl.
Thornfiehl's love for ler was one of self-deny-
ing purity, and had lie once been convinced
that this man Hartley was worthy the enviable
position he was to occupy as the husband of
the young heiress, Roger' Thornifiel would
have been the first to go to lis long-time
friend and congratulate on her choice. For
now it was currently reported that Ruth and
Hartley were engaged, and would shortly he
married. The news had spread like wild
fire, and been received first with astonishment,
then with disbelief; and then, when disbelief
was no longer possible, with great disdain,
by Ruth's aristocratic friends. Who was this
man ?  Who    knew  him ?  Nobody; and
strange to say, Thornfield's niisgivimgs of ins
previous good character were sliared by
every one who iet hii. By every one ex-
cept Ruth who, it was said, became more
and more attached to hii every day.
Thornfield's sole pleasure, now that this
great blight had fallen on his life, al his
visits to Ruth had ceased, was to seat himself
opposite her door on a stone bench in the
Park, which fronted her house. Here he
cou  see ier coming and going : driving witb
lartley every day, aid accoipamiie(l by hi
and her aunt, Mi's. Whining, goimg ab out
some gayety every evening. llartlev's visits
were constant; and every oeit who hal ex-
pressed himself-or herself-inm uinavorahle
terms of the aflianced husband-was pretty
well e'xeuilded f'rom the house. One eveinmilg
Thornfield sat at his post, regardless of a rinn
which was coming down quietly 'imt steadily,
and drenching him from head  to foot, when
he saw Hartley drive up to Ihbe door, hng
the reims to the groom, who cleared away at
a rattling pace. I tartley was evidently  in"
for a ong evening of it.
Poor Ruth," imiutfered Roger between his
teeth.
Absorbed by his bitter reflections, Ihorn-
fieldl failed to observe that the stone( bench
on which lie sat, held another oceuplanit Ibe-
sidle himself. This occupant was a young

       
-
i
t
S
t
_  _  +,  #
r   t
t
f
,i
y  1
i
C


JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

JOHN MORRIS' MONEY.

woman with a handsome painted face, a pair
of bold black eves, and a luxuriant, untidy
head of hair. Her dress was composed of
costly materials, but the rain of to-night and
the neglect, perhaps of weeks, had rendered
it the reverse of handsome. She made one
or two efforts to attract the attention of the
sad-looking young man who sat gazing fixed-
ly on the house across the way, but finding
they were fruitless, she moved along the
bench noiselessly, and, without speaking, laid
her delicate white hand lightly on his shoul-
der.
Roger started and looked around to find
the bold, black eyes peering deep into his, and
the painted, handsome lips within a finger's
length of his own. Instinctively he shrank
from this woman and turned his back on her.
The rain was pouring down heavily now, and
spite of the aversion which one glance at her
had caused him, Thornfield could not help
feeling compassion for a wretch whose only
home probably was in the pitiless streets.
His eyes wandered to the right and to the
left, in front and back of the bench where
they sat ; beside themselves there was not
a human being to be seen.    Across the
street, Ruth's shutters jealously closed, her-
self inside with the worthless man she had
chosen, while the pure young heart which
loved her through all, Roger Thornfield, the
friend of her youth, sat on a cold stone
bench in the dripping rain, side by side with
a painted midnight tramp !
He hoped she would go. But that he did
not wish to speak to her, lie would have of-
fered her charity and told her to go. While
he was deliberating whether ne should say so
much to her, she spoke to him.
"I want about half an hour's conversations
with you. Can I have it?"
" No," he said, " I'll give you charity if
you want it, but go away from me."
" I don't want your charity, as you call
it," she answered bitterly. " I suppose you
mean money. God knows it's little enough
of any other charity I get."
He did not answer. There was a pause
for a moment-broken by the woman.
" Why don't you go there any more ?" she
said, pointing to the house opposite.
"Where?" said Thornfield.-
" Oh, you know well enough what I mean.
To the house opposite.- I have been hanging
about this park longer than you have, and I
know you t.sed to go there often, and one
(lay you came away looking very wretched,
and you have not been there since. Has he
driven you off?"
Thornfield rose to go.
"You're a fool to try to get away from
me," continued this woman in a low tone;
"I could tell you something now you'd give
your eyes to know."
"What about," asked Roger, still walking
on while the woman followed at his side.

"What about?    Why about him, to be
sure. What do I care for anybody else? "
" About that man, do you mean ! About
Arthur Hartley?" said Roger, whose inter-
est was now fully awakened.
Arthur Hartley ! That's what he calls
himself, is it? Yes, about Arthur-what
was it-oh yes, Hartley ! and a very pretty
name, too. That's his Philadelphia name."
" Has he any other, then'? " asked Thorn-
field with breathless anxiety.
"Oh ho!!" said the woman with a coarse
laugh.  " That wakes you up, does it?  I
thought you didn't wan't to talk to nme-a
poor wretch out all alone in a dark, rainy
night. Where shall we go? In here?"
They were standing before the door of a
lady's restaurant," one of the best in Phil-
adelphia.  Roger looked up and shrank
back. He shuddered at beimg seen in the
company of this painted creature with the
dripping dress.
" I'd rather not," he said hastily. "I'd
rather go somewhere where we can talk pri-
vately. If you are tired or hungry go in.
Here is some money. I'll wait for you out.
side."
"I never feel either fatigue or hunger
when I'm after my revenge. I don't want
your money, I tell you ; I'm after my re-
venge." She clenched her bands together as
she spoke, and, in the stillness of the dark
night, Roger heard the sharp grinding of her
white teeth.
" Where can we go?" he said, hopelessly.
"Why don't you take me to your rooms,"
she answered roughly, " you have got some
rooms somewhere, haven't you? "
Roger thought of the quiet lodgings kept
by a pious Quakeress, a widow woman with
half a dozen young children. No, no, he
could not take her there.
" I suppose you would not like to go to
the garret where I hive," said she.
Thornfield hesitated. This woman might
Nbe leadinghim into a trap.  She might be
leagued with a gang of robbers and ruffians.
Should he go with her-to his doom, perhaps?
Why not ?  What had he to lose? 'The little
money he earned from month to month con-
stituted his only earthly fortune, and as for
his life, what was that worth to him since
Ruth Villemain loved another ?
" I will go with you," he said.
They walked off silently, for their way was
through unfrequented thoroughfares where no
cars were running. A weary journey over
hillocks of bricks and dibris of demolished
houses-through back alleys, whose -effluvia
was oppressive  and  overwhelming"- out
beyond the town to the open country-and at
length the woman stopped before the door of
a wretched looking hovel.
" Go m," said she pushing the door on its
rusty hiinges- -
Roger' Thornifield, the model young man of

's
}
5
it
'r

the great business house of C-- &amp; Co.,
groped his way up the creaking staircase
closely followed by the painted midnight
tramp he had met in the park, on the rainy
night.
CHAPTER IV.
THAT same rainy night, after Mr. Hartley
had driven up to Ruth's door and flung his
reins to the smart groom, he entered the
large drawing-room of this fine house, and
enquired for Miss Villemain.
" Be down in a minute, sir," said Williams.
"Dear ue, sir! your overcoat is quite wet!
Ill take it down stairs to dry."
The man, leaving, the room, met Mrs.
Whining, to whom he gave a respectful bow.
"My dear Hartley," said the lady advanc-
mug to meet the handsome New Yorker, "1I1
knew it was you! I said to Ruth: 'My dear,
do you hear how lightly that door is shut?
That's Hartley. Hartley never bangs. I
never knew Hartley to thump in my life.
Hartley is a treasure.. Outside of a bedrid-
den party, who can be made over to paid
nurses at'once, I don't know of any one who
will annoy you less, as a husband, than
Hartley. Hartley, to use some of the horrid
slang of the (lay, Hartley is the Ace of
Clubs.' "
"My dear Mrs. Whining! " exclaimed
Hartley, "how black you are making me!
Why am I the Ace of Clubs, pray? "
I don't mean that," replied the lady
sinking into an arm-chair. " I've got it con-
fused. I knew I should. I mean a' trump.'
I never played cards but once. It bores me
to fix my mind on stupid little pieces of paint-
ed pasteboard. On the solitary occasion of
which I speak, it was observed that the Ace
of Clubs happened to be frequently the trump.
So I got it confused. Pray overlook the
mistake."
" Will Ruth soon be down? " asked Hart-
ley, who seemed restless and uneasy.
" Yes, in a minute. - Her maid was at her
hair when I came down. 1 would not have
that maid if she would come to me for noth-
ing. Such a noisy creature, and sticks the
hair pins into one's head frightfully. My
maid is bad enough. But they are all alike
-they will talk. I hate talking. I never
would go to the theatre if I could help it, ex-
cept when they play pantomimes and ballets.
No talking, you know. Even then, thery
play horrid, noisy, distracting music. What a
very unpleasant thing music is !"
"How confoundedly long Ruth stays!"
said Hartley, rising from his seat and pacing
the floor abstractedly.
"That's her maid's fault! The poor girl
is positively the abject slave of that woman
when- she's at her hair. If Ruth tells her to
hurry, she sticks pins in her head. If she tells

her of that, she pulls hter hair out. ' Acciden-
tal,' did you suggest ? No such thing; it's
malice-pure spite."
Hartley made no reply, but kept looking
anxiously at the door.
" Hartley ! " continued Mrs. Whining,
if you had the remotest idea how nervous
you make me by gazing at the door in that
distressed manner, I am sure y-ou would de-
sist at once. I'm going now. Iheeanse I hear
Ruth's rustling dress on the stairs. I hate
silks because they rustle, which is unbear-
able."
" Don't let me chase you away, Aunty,"
said Ruth, entering with a happy smile, an'd
extending her little dimpled hand to Hartley.
Dear, I wouldn't stay for worlds ! You
are going to bill and coo here, and that I posi-
tively cannot stand. All the emotions-even
the pleasurable ones-are most distressing to
my nerves. Joy, for instance, is such a noisy
emotion ! I can't bear it. Grief, when very
subdued, is much   less offensive. Please
kiss me very lightly, Ruth. I so dislike a
hearty good-night smack, what wretched vul-
gar people called a ' buss.' Ta-ta, Hartley.
Good-night. I'll see you to morrow."
She never saw him again.
" My darling w fc," said Iartley, as the
door closed on Mrs. Whining.
Not yet, Arthur," said the gil, seating
herself on the sofa beside him. " But soon,
very soon."
He was silent.
" Arthur! How pale you look to-night!
What is the matter ? "
Nothing, dearest," he replied, passing his
hand over his forehead, on which drops of
perspiration were standing, though the night
was not a warm one.
There is something wrong. Ai, Arthur !
can you keep anything from me, your own
little Ruth ? " ie put his  arm about her
waist and, leaning over, kissed her fresh young
lips.
" I would tell you at once, dearest, ex-
cept that it is a horrid business affair-"
" Business, Arthur ! " she repeated, '' I
thought you were not in business."
'Well, it is not business in the usual ac-
ceptation of the term, and vet it is business,
too, of a certain sort. In 'act, it's ablout-
about--"
About money ? " she asked.
Well, yes -about money."
I knew it," she said, "money is always
causing trouble."
There was a pause for a moment, and then
the pretty girl wound her arms tenderly
about Hartley's neck, and, wlhispering in his
ear, said-
" Arthur !
" Well, Ruth."
"Let me furnish this money."
"Nonsense, chiildl -- you dloni't know how
large the sum is."
"I'm suic I don't care how large it is I

14


JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

Ive got plenty of money. There were some
heavy payments made me last week. Come,
say you will take it from me."
'If she had had. more experience of the
world, especially the world of badness-if
she had been less infatuated with this man,
she would have seen at once that this was
the very point to which he had been leading
her, and that he now smiled triumphantly at
her folly.
" First let me explain the affair," he said.
"You see, Ruth, I'm unfortunately endowed
with a little bit of mechanism they call a
heart-deuced tender, you know.   Perfect
fool I've been, or I should have been-well,
rich as-What d'ye call em-Crosus-this
day. Still you know-I would not change my
heart, would you? No, of course not; I
thought you'd' say so. Well, about three
months ago, one of my school-mates-good
fellow as ever lived. only will get perpetually
into scrapes-came to nie and said, ' Arthur
my boy! I want your name on the back of
that paper. Just for form's sake, you know.
You'll never hear a word about it again, and it
will help me to negotiate '-you understand,
don't you, Ruth-how business men accommo-
date one another? Oh, don't you? Well, I'll.
explain it some day or another to you How-,
ever, having full belief in his honesty, I en-
dorsed the note, and 'pon honor, the bill falls
due to-morrow, and I've just this minute
heard that lie has run off to Europe, and that
they'll come down oi me for the money-
fifteen thousand dollars. Isn't it dreadful,
Ruth !"
" How can men be so dishonest." said the
girl, drinking in his foolish story with perfect
belief in its veracity.
" The worst of it is that my father-never
mentioned to you that I had a father? Why
yes, my dear girl, I did-did'nt I? Well,
that's funny ! Of course I've got a father.
Where does he live? Oh, at New York-and
New England.    He'll be mad enough to
kill me when he hears of it, and ten to one
wont come down with the dust at all, but
just let me sweat for it. Oh, this is why I
never mentioned him to you. At least I think
it is. Did'nt want to hurt your feelings, you
know. But lie's as mad as blazes because
I'm marrying a Philadelphia girl; wanted
mne to marry a foreign woman with a title.
Stupid pride, isn't it? I always said so-es-
pecially for Americans. All well enough for
uropeans, who hold so much to that style of
thing. In the meantime just think of it-
fifteen thousand dollars!"
"Let me draw you a draft for this money,
Arthur," said Ruth, rising and crossing to
her rosewood Secretaire.
" Oh, you darling girl" said Hartley, hug'
ging his affianced bride with great fervor, but
kissing her rather abstractedly, for lie was
thinking about this money and the means o~
getting it.

JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

" Stop Ruth," he said, "I tell you what
will be better than that. It will look rather
funny for me, I'm afraid, to be drawing a lot
of money on your draft. People are so
cursed ill natured ! Just like 'em to say 'What
the dickens is Hartley drawing her money
for, before they are married ?' No stopping
their beastly tongues. The way we can
manage it is this -if you really insist on my
taking this money." She assured him loving-
ly that she did., "Well then, I'll come for
you in a back to-morrow at ten, and then we
can drive to the bank, you can draw your
money-ah, and give it-ah-to me-and
I'll take the eleven o'clock train, arrive in
New York at two, up town and make my
payment before three, and then I am all
O. K. Excuse slang, darling. One contracts
these horrid phrases among-ah-you know
-business men."
" And when will you return, dear Arthur?"
asked Ruth.
"Oh - return-shortly  of course-very
shortly. The next day or same evening-yes
to be sure, the same evening. And you know
Ruth, soon as ever I have a streak of luck-
no, I don't mean that, but when (lad pays up
my-my half-yearly income, derived from-.
oh, dear child, this must be stupid to you, and
I hate business, too. But what I mean is
that--the money shall be returned to you."
She would not allow him to speak of that,
she said, and if the truth must be confessed,
he seemed very glad -of it. He referred to
the subject once again during the evening.
Think  it will excite attention, your
drawing such a large amount, Ruth? " he
asked.
" No, I have no one to question me, nor
of whom I must ask leave.  But if those
payments had not been made last week
I don't believe I could have got so much
money at a moment's notice."
Mr. Hartley devoted- at least half an
hour to desperate love-making, which was in-
terrupted by Williams, the man servant, who,
after rapping lightly, looked in with rather a
nervous expression of face quite unusual to
the easy going valet.
" Please Miss," he said, "here's Mr.
Thornfield outside very excited, saying he
must and will see you to-night, he don't care
how late it is."
Ruth looked at Arthur, as if to ask what
reply she should make. Arthur replied for
f her.
" Tell Mr. Thornfield he can't come in."
" Mr. Hartley says you can't come in,"
said Williams to Thornfield, who stood in the
hall outside.
" Does lie ?" yelled Thornfield, pushing
past the man, rushing into the drawing room
t and planting himself before Hartley. " Now
let Mr. Arthur Hartley (as he chooses to
f call himself) say the same to me !"

I{
~II

.i
I
iF
t
3
i
3
l
t
1?e
2
xF
i
t
y
7
r
1
s
3
s
rt
r
'd
Y
1
{
t
t1
3
i
i
l
i
3
3
t
q
f
J

" My dear Miss Villemain," said Hartley,
turning coolly to Ruth, " is ths-ah-your
Quaker friend-or, ali-an Italian brigand ?"
".Mr. Thornfield," said  Ruth  coldly,
" will yon be good enough to explain this
conduct? "
" I will, Ruth," said Thornfield-" Oh my
poor girl, how it, will make you suffer!
Read that letter. Ruth-it will convince you
of this man's perfidy better than I can. It
tells its own story."
Ruth took the letter and looked at it. " It
is in your handwriting, Arthur," she said.
She thought she saw his lips tremble and his
cheek blanch slightly - nevertheless his tone
was firm enough as he replied:
Is it? Then read it, Ruth. -Read it-if
it is in my handwriting." She read aloud:
"DEAR CAROLINE:
"6.Why will you make an idiot Qf
yourself in this way? Can you not see that
I am playing a deep game with this-girl, Ruth
Villenmain. Come on, and spoil all by your
foolish jealousy, do ! What if you have heard
I was cooing to marry her ? How can I?
" My idea is to worm a good big sum of
money out of her, get clear off, and then let
her whistle for her ' bridegroom.' Don't
you see ?
" I enclose you twenty-five dollars. Go
buy yourself a pound of sweetmeats at Mail-
lard's and when I make the haul in question
I'll buy you a handsome diamond ring at
Tiffanv's; so keep that cursed black Indian
blood of yours under control, and believe
me when I tell you that, spitfire as you are,
you please me better than any woman I ever
met."
" No signature," said Ruth in a trembling
voice.
"By George, I'm sorry for that," said
Hartley, taking the letter deliberately from
her hand ; " if' my signature had been at-
tached, I should have placed this in the hands
of the proper authorities to-morrow ; but as
it is; "-and he scanned it very closely, for
Mr. Hartley said he was quite near-sighted-
" as it is, I pronounce it only a very stupid
forgery."
" A forgery ! " repeated Thornfield and
Ruth in the same breath.
" A-forgery !" said Mr. Hartley, conclu-
sively.
" You lie!" shrieked a fierce voice from
outside. There was a struggle, and a noise,
as of a scuffle. The door was flung open,
and the handsome, painted woman, whom
Roger Thornfield had met in the Park, stood
in a defiant attitude, with her dripping dress,
and her untidy hair, in Ruth Villemain's
drawing room.
" Do you dare to deny me,our ee! you
base wretch PC screamed this woman, ad-
dressing herself to Hartley.

It only required one glance at him as lie
shrank cowering among the Cushions of the
sofa, to see that she was what she proclaimed
herself. His self-possession had entirely left
him now. It was evident that this woinati's
influence over him was great-either good or
bad-it was great.
George Hackley," she said, frowning
darkly at him, " you are the meanest wretch
that walks the earth. You're a giilher
and a thief and a liar. I was an Imocent
girl when you got hold of ime. See what I
amn now. I didn't care how much you cheat-
ed men. I helped you     at it. Bmmt you
shan't ruin any more women if I can pre-
vent it. You've sent one to perdition-that's
me-and that's enough. Come, get up, and
go with me. You'd better. Bad as I aim,
I'm the only friend you've got."
The man seemed to feel this, for he ober-
ed her passively, and without casting a
glance at either Ruth or Thornfield, he
skulked, like a coward cur, out of the house
of which he had been but a few moments be-
fore virtually the master.
" I've done you the best turn you ever
had done you in your life," said the woman
turning to Ruth ; " the more you hear of
him the -more you'll thank me. But I did
it willingly, because you're a woman. As for
you, Mr. Thornfield, I'll never forget you.
You've treated inc with decncv-as I've
not been treated sine-" pointing her fin-
ger the way in which Ilaitley had gone-
" since I met him. I feel grateful. I wish
you good-bye. You seem an honest, vell
meaning young man. Keep away fromil such
women as I aim, and you'll remain so."
She left them.
When Roger turned to Ruth lie found she
had fainted. le rang the bell, placed her
in the hands of her frightened imai, and
their returned to his distant lodgings.
It was three years before Roger Thorn-
field saw Ruth again. .She and her aunit left
for Europe the day after the affair, and RHog-
er made up his mind she. would marry abroad.
He applied himself valiantly to his business,
and by dint of industry, talent and persever-
ance, lie became head of the house in which
lie had formerly been employed. Ile heard
that Ruth had lost her fortune through the
dishonesty of an agent. Le did not know
if this was true, but one day he met her
quite unexpectedly in the street, and asked
her. She said yes, it was true she was re-
duced to comparative poverty.
About three months afterward, he asked
her another question. I scarcely know what
she replied to this, but if you feel interested
in the matter you numihit go on to Philadel-
hia and ask her.   ou must inquire for
dIrs. Rog'er Thiornfield, though, or you will
not be likely to find her.

17


18                         JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.
and all-plough-man and plough-horse, and
shop-keeper, and post-mistress, andihouse-
III.                   wife, and children, and little dogs, and
even some rather high-minded eats roused to
ABOUT SOMETHING ELSE.              a sense of their own indolence by seeing the
activity of' every body about them--all were
"WrAT'S    your story about to-night, busy. That was the time for the utilitarian
Nell? " asked John, so soon as tea was over,  coe.
and we had all got comfortably seated.     But for you and me, who have enough of
It is the story of how a woman loved, bsiess and utilitarianism in town, and who
WZ1 dli~tdtete,  n             like to run down into the country occasion-
was doubted, tested, and-- Aunt         ally and throw olf our cares, and scribble a
That the sequel  ill show, Aunt. John, few verses about " lover " and   clover,"
" Thabteswit s                         and " rill" and "hill," who are prone to think
l've (ubbedit                            ourselves very ill-used the first day we come,
because fate has decreed that- we shall not
Tinnie's Ordeal.*            inhabit this Arcadia the year through; and
It wvas between five and six o'clock onewho before the end of the first week of our
evening ill the month of May, and theivell- staying there, have so completely changed
origanisel inhabitants of the'little village of our ideas that we are wishing the time of
Mar-towii were one and all engaged in their our vacation over, so that we may get back
evening meal. Not that the :evening meal to town again-you andlI would see Mars-
was in common, or that any one family had town at its best in the evenmg.b
whatsoever to do with the evening meal of the It strtick Robert Htolden as being a very
neighbor; far from it. But in a quiet, hum- pretty place as, later onthis quiet afternoon
drum llPlace like M\amstown, there was very in May-, lie wendled his way up the village-
drmn to ae  a li M teow  ,  a  s very  street,  having  as  vet  not  so  far  lost  his  city
lcd in al i ost every case, by a similitude ofh a   habits as to be able to muster up an appetite
ed, m  mIt  h d been  a  lovely d  y.  The  forafive  o'clock  "tea."
cool, fresh breeze of the morning wafting h  e leaned to rest on the heavy stick which
across the fields the delicate odorofn ewtin he carried in his right hand, and surveyed
born flowers, had been chased aay, it i- the scene around him. Before him was the
true, by the heat of a noon-day sun, whic  church where his mother had been married,
was not so unbearable in itself as it was and where beneath one of those grey-stone
rather threatening in its promises of the slabs she lay at rest forever ; in front of the
scorching rays it- was going to send, in a church the tiem-lionored tclag-staf which he
month or two later; but as early as three had so often attempted to chimb), as a boy,
o'clock in the afternoon the glorious orb of and been rewardedi1fr hisnatniftl efforts
light, seemingly satisfied with the undoubt- by as many tumbles down on to the sof,
ed taste of is quality which he had gracious- grassy carpet beneath. The  hr-stffhad
ly vouchsafed the Marstown villagers, re- been in great requisition ringg the past
tired majestically behind some heavy clouds, four years, and ha. never borne the Starry
and was seen no more that day.          Standard with a prouder air than the day
And now that the daylight itself was fad- o which the hero of the village-the great
mgi omut, and the soft gloammng settling (down fnancia persounag wo hastoind the only
tranquilly on the white-fronted houses of man inf the county who bad joined the army
Marstown, throwing the tall church-steeple in ays aist u  t ta" itn, an  never
gloom first, and never stopping till even the left it until he took tea with somef cousins
grassy lanes were a tone or two darker in of his in Richmond; that old flag-ta bcreak-
shadow, and from grass-green had become ing in the wind never flaunted out the brilliant
green-invisible, now was the time to see hued banner so gaily as on the glorious dlay
Marstown at its best. Not the time for a when Robert Hoilen retired to the (juiet
strict utilitarian to see it at its best-oh, no ! town -tei polai'ly not quiet, for drums
The time for that was several. hours earlier, were beimg beat fois glory and children beirg
when the men were in the fields, and the ditto for naughtiness, and fire-crackers were
little store-keepers of the one village-street spitting an sputtering at Robert"s feet, and
busy with what petty traffic the place afford- every man and woman in the plate was a-od
ed; when if you only took the trouble to bless "-ing hiii, and poor olden was a hap-
cast a passing glance into neat kitchens, the py man for ihe tiume, site of  at deep
doors of which stood invitingly open, you trouble which e must bear every week and
were sure to see busy housewives engaged every month, and every day. and every hour,
in soimro interesting stutly of gastronomical until the moment should come for him to join
combinations, coupling theory wit p ractice his mother im te bhurcheystd lean
in a thoroughly scientific manner. And one thnkin of tvi strobl aste he stood aig
The reader is requested to overlook the very ap- panu wak
parent anachironism of this story.       Ia. wvanot all for nothing that L(obert

++
,t
;
; _'
=-. ;;
tf
'f   %
ke J
{ }
y
t i :+ }
. , f(1(/  1
F    1'y
jr       jjjjj!! E{ijj
Y      t1 S

JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY-

Holden had been a thirty-days man, and that
his thirty tlavs had lasted till he entered
Richmond with Graut's army. His uniform
had got very rusty and shabby long before
Gettysburg ; and at Gettysburg he received
an ugly wound in his thigh, which fortunately
didn't make amputation necessary, but whieh
in healing had shrivelled up one of his legs
antil it was some inches shorter than the
other, making him limp painfully, and having
at the same time a distressing effect on his
general health. In about a month after he
was about again he was detailed fhr picket-
duty, andt o! a bullet from nowhere, seem-
ingly, shattered his left arim, aind made hin
again an inmate of a military hospital. The
arm had to go ; and now Robert Holden, with
only one arm, lame, and hearing withal the
hurthien of unceasing ill-health, walked ip
the principal street of' Marstown and silently
bemoaned his fate.
In some respects his fate seemed a pleas-
ant one. He was by all odds the r'hest
man in Marstown. His father had amassed
something whiich, even iii these days of al-
most Sardaiapalan.luxury, looked Very like
a fortune. The last voyage his father had
taken (for he was a sea-captain and had per-
ished with his vessel, one stormy night, off
the Bahama Islands) ; even this voyage had
brought its pecuniary fruits to the then young
lad, -Robmert Uolden. His mother had left
him  a fine farm, in the adjoining county,
which brought i a good round sum as a yearly
rent. The ground on which the grocer' and
d'ry-goods store stood was his; and all that
rich land there to the left-oh, far hevond
the fi'nce-that too was his; and last, hut
perhaps best, the house and grounds, both in
such capital condition, where Holden now
made his home, were his.
Of hate, too, a greater source of happiness
than any lantis, or houses, or cows, ompgres-
cery stores, seemed opening for the crippled
hero. His nature was a very self-contained
on'e, and   to the ,age of twenty-five, his
love for s mother had been all-sufficient for
him ; and then she died, and then came war,
and now Robert Holden found himself in his
thirtieth year with some few gray hairs shin-
ing here and there among his soft brown
curls (for he belonged to a family who grew
gray very early), and until very recently had
never thought of love and marriage. The
man's nature was a retiring one ; there was a
dearth of marriageable girls in the village ;
there is not much of what is lovely in woman-
kimd to be seen in the neighborhood of an
army; so after all, it was scarcely to be
wondered at that Robert Holden hadremain-l
ed heart-whole.
He was not heart-whole now-far from it.
but that was something which had happened
within the last three months. It was the
sumaplest story in the world. He had seen thme
pretty new school-mistress, and had fallen in
Jove with her, and had told her of his feeling

very honestly and plainly, and she hadl given
him to understand that she loved him iiire-
turn, and tuey' were engaged. This was all
very grritif'yii, hut still theme was on  drop)
of bitterness in the honey en1.
Poor an opinion as the kind-hearted Rob
ert had of himself it was impossible foi -ili
to be quite unaware that lie was the best
match " in the village- that fin6:magimI in
her position it was the greatest Pw( ile lathck
to (   met snch an offer ; and try as he voiubh to
Sehieve the vows of her love which she pos-
itively asserted she would pnoe som(e lay,
Robert IHolden looked at his mainih foim
and siglingly' asked himself what there was
in such a mlan as he, heside the noey in his
pocket, which cold attret- so h1 i 11ant amd
beautiful a woman as M i'ni e IDas ii.
IHer history was rather a peetlia' one, as
well as being very sad. IM1mmro i    hmi o
died early, ard her father, a hmi'd-hm'iukit,
inoney-getting, pushing, fit-ig, 11ii sit I iet' mi
New York merchant, had       itm  hle Itas .ile
guardian to the pretty' little :Ethtigutr.,She
had been educated in il'rancee, 11 at amer hwr
education  had  been coimpleted hail hu1me
hurried over the Continentby li hmr iim)u'tiinots
father, and brought hack to go ti br ngh the
perils of rich young ladyhood in the :first
circles " of New  York. She hat had her
own carriage, and her sadd le-horse, ath her
groom; and one or two 'proposals of mainr-
riage, which were rejected hecao nti  ot 'in-
sitdere'd advantageoi n' inounrh tfoihtie stvli-h
Miss Davison ; and suddtenly, in the miiist of
all this grandeur, there 'ame iiua vagite smu'
thing, which seemed to be genmerall v inown as
a " Smiash," and away   went Cindere'hla's
pumpkin carriage, and the rat-horses, aunt
her nmi'i-footmm'en. All was over. Two years
of grindinmig poveit y foilwed, and at the indn
of' that time  a  fairly  nest b te : a tmip in  t  ire-
lv (11(dmutit iedleiavimug a beauitiftil vun
girl, without a friend or a dollar, ahmte il
the world to struggle for herself'. 'l''irugh
one of' her former teachers, she heard of t his
place of school-mistress in the village of'
Marstown, and thither she went.
It was not possible-it was not i Ihumimima
nature, that she sihoulhdlike smuih a poor, timliet,
hmmimomhm'mmmmn  littlt  place, afe  the'hmihhiaimt lifin
she had led. Even after that terrible break
ig tip, when riches and all the luxuries they
brimg had vanished into thin air, she still
lived in a noisy, hustling, brili mit. wickedmimo-
tropolis. 11er friend, Mrs. Pithoile, mirhitmit
her because she was poor now ; but shmecould
not shut from lher sight, the animated s'ne
which Broadway, in all its dilterenmt aspects.
presents. And now to live day afterda
and year after vea' in a dull, noiseless, hi
mmote little Massachusetts vilage, surroumded)
by Pupils 'omnsistinig of a half-score ragged,
saicyn, thuick-headedt riniis, wvho hoved hemr
in time bottom of their per'ver's' little hearts
but whmo mneverthieless saw no reason why they
should not thrust their healthy little tongues

19

.s
e ; f, i
E   vt
t '
to t
r
f ,
;:,
,
.
j
t ;


20

JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

I
Stil

out at her whenever she set them the most
necessary task. This life was death to her
so Minie told Robert lloien--untilhe catoe.
Then all was different !
Did he believe her?  God knows he wish-
ed to do so ! But still-still--
He was ruminating upor it as he reached
the door of' the little store which served the
triple office of dispensing stationery, news-
paper literature and  sugar-plums to the
Marstowners, and in one corner of which
there hung a sort of mysterious and suspend-
ed etagbre divided off intolittle pigeon-holes.
This piece of furniture was nothing more or
less than the Marstown Post-Office itself.
The Post-mistress was selling three cents
worth of molasses candy to an uninteresting
female child, as Robert'entered and asked if
there was a letter for him.
6 Yes, indeed ! I guess there is a letter for
vout, Mr. Holden," said the Post-mistress,
dragging off a huge bit of coarse, brown pa-
pert and laying the sticky molasses-mess in-
side--" a letter-there's two ! There now,
run home, sis ; tell your mother if she wants
any lemons again I've got some now; she
needn't go to the grocery'-store ; and two
letters from big towns too, I tell vou, Mr.
Holden ; and say to your pap that I'm sorry
he bought some of those yellow enn-vellopes
that don't stick-lots of people complained
of them ; I'l change 'em if he's got many.
Yes, that's all ; and Mr. Holden, on the big
one there's three cents due.
Robert crushed the letters in his hand as
lie looked at the post marks and saw that
neither was from the adjacent town where
Minnie Davison had gone to spend a week
with the family of one of her pupils. Acquit-
ting his debt to the post-mistress, he sallied
forth again, and, resuming the thread of his
broken, unspoken thought, he walked slowly
back to his own home. Minnie had prom-
ised to write to him; why had she not kept
her word ? He opened one of the letters; it
was from a relative in Boston-a young man
occupying a rather important position in a
Bank. He complained of ill health. and in-
formed Robert that he was going to run
down to Marstown the next week, for a fort-
night's relaxation.  The other letter was
from New York. The writer was a gay, rich
voug mnan, who had been very patriotic for
a short time, and stayed in the army till the
gold on his shoulders began to tarnish; then
he resigned. Robert Holden wrote back to
both to conme down to Marstown as soon as
possible, and stay as long as business or
other engagemen' s would allow.
Both invitations were accepted, and on the
following Tuesday Marstown, the unsensa-
tional, was aroused from its usual apathy by
the arrival of the two dashing young city
gents. Curniously' enough they tnt iin then cam-s
and wvithtout previous in trodlutction, comnpar
ed notes, each discovered who the other was
and so Robert was saved the trouble ofl

,il

JOHN MAllRlIS'S MONEY.

bringing about an acquaintance which had
already brought about itself. Of course they
bot h1ld heard the story of'the school-mistress.
Iobert Hohlen was too important a person-
agi, ani his probable marriage was too im-
portant a business, to remain long a secret.
To George Wilson, the Bostonian Minnie
Davison was a stranger; but it s- happened
that Algernon Deene was one of the '' offers "
which had been rejected by Minnie's father,
in their former days of grandeur. And thus
it came that Algernon had some fine mis-
givings about the school-mistress, which he
felt it his duty to communicate to lulden.
Pray    don't mention   that  subject,
Deene," said Robert, impatiently, when, a
lay or two after their arrival, Algernon pro-
nounced Minnie Davison's name.
Did you understand me when i said that
I knew her formerly-knew her well?"
Yes," answered Holden ; " what then ?"
And that I proposed to her once ; and
she rejected me?
"Yes ; and again I say, what then? You
surely are not petty enough to bear spite."
"' Spite! My dear fellow, if there is one
atom of spite in the nature of Algy Deene,
why you're the flust person who ever discov-
ered-it, that's all I can say. But the answer
to the ' what then !' of your question is this
-are you sure you are not mistaken in the
girl?"
" ' Deene !"
"Oh, come now, don't be tragic. I tell
you I know her-know her well. She was
a dreadful flirt when she-when the old man
had money.
" So she has told me,"
"I don't mean to say there was anything
wrong in it, mind; or anything different to
other girls, in the same situation ; still, she
was very fond of society.
" So she has told me," said Holden again.
S I don't know how she made omt after
the old fellow smashed, but I rather think
that sobered her a little. Of course, shie's
a brilliant woman and a beautiful one, and
one you could very well be proud of, but my
great fear is (you must see that I have only
your interest at hieaut in speaking in this
manner, Bob) my great fear is that-that
-by Jove, it's such a delicate manner I real-
ly don't know how to put it."
What Deene means is this, Robert," said
young Wilson, putting back his meersehaum,
and closing the bright morocco case with a-
snap.  "That this girl, being so fond of so-
ciety, having suffered great poverty after
having held such a different position previous-
ly, that it is highly probable she has made up
her mind to marry any one on earth who
wants her and has got money."
"'Any one on earth!' Upon my word,
,Wilson, you place me in an ennobling eate-
-gory'," said Holden with a hot, red face.
"on't, for heaven's sak-e, tlon't get an-
gry, Bob," ehimetd in Algy Deene. " I tell

21

you women are all ali!ze. She is no worse, and
very likely far better, than many of her sex.
But it's just this, she is full of health, youth
and beauty, while it so liappens that you are
-are- "
Full of infirmities," said Robert, bitterly,
slaking his empty sleeve, and touching with
his stick the acting leg.
.'' It's not so much that," said Deene, " as
it is your delicate health. Let me ask you
how you would relish being obliged to"' do'
three balls a night for a space of four imonth5,
during winter,, to be followed by summer's
equalt I parts,-Newport and Saratoga-well
nixedd"
"Ilidenremembered how, even now, the
slightest imprudence of, late hours or wine
as sufficient to make him ill for a couple of
days.
You take it for granted that we are going
to be ' fislionahles,' " said Ifolden,
Come iiow," retorted Deene, " has she
not exacted of you a promise to live in New
Yok, her placeiof predilection ? "
. I certainiv told her she should live there
she liked ; she exacted nothing from me."
Suppose you were to tell her that you
were (I~ternined never to leave Marstowi--
no, she'd be sure to think she could coax you
out of that-suppose you were to tell her that
you had lost every dollar, and were now as
poor as a church ioise. Do you think she'd
stil le true to you -P .,
i rIo." answered Robert, with conviction
inhis tone.
Wo uldyou like to put her to the test?"
o ."shouted Holden, springing lip.
Deene, this -conversation has  gone far
no1-1lh.  I love Minnie Davison, and have
"idenee in her love for iiie. Whatever
01m1  o i(itives are, I can no longer permit a
(ouversatioi which wrongs the woman of my
-hoice. Let it stop here."
Minnie Davison's name was not mentioned
for several days. Deene, whose.motives were
indeiiably of the purest, was too fond of
lol(Iento take umbrage at the impetuous
ply vhich terminated this conversation;
and like a thorough bon enfant as he was.
Aigs-soon put the school-mistress, and love
Making,' am  dissensions of' all kinds, quite
outNof his head-
Not so with Iolden. Spite of his vaunted
ofidence in Mimmie's lose, I)eene's opiiiion
is to the unitiess of the match was im great
mieasume shared by himself. Ile loved this
oman with all the fervor of a tirst affection,
and atl there not existed that blighitiug doubt
of the truth of' her love fori hin his happiness
would have been altogether without alloy.
It seems so hard, so wroiiging, to douit her;
anilvetdoubtlier lie did.
It, was [Lolden himself who reverted to the
forbidden sih-eet.'
Ieene." saitl lie, ''Ifear I was very rude
time other day whiemi we were speaking of' Miss
aivison, but v on seemed to make it quiite

an. inpnossille condition of afiairs that I
should be loved for itself alone."
" Why, you dear old fellow." sa ill l ne.
" I think it just iiext to impossible tht you
should not he lovcd for noirself alone. I
don't see who can help loving ' ou-I can't,
for one.   I don't douht Minnie I)avim
loves yvoui-and loves you,-as you say, i'
yourself alone.  But this is the psit i,
Bob. Do yo   think she has love eoemyh for
you, and strength of imiinild ilnough in her-
self, to live the quiet, re'lusi siot of Iit'
necessitated by the delicate state of your
health ?  Don't you think that even with
lots of love to begin with, von' lditl.ren'ceil
of tastes will lead by-and-y toi vir th
pulling contrary ways, like a dinmtenti'l
double team in a fretting har'iii', ulint i at
last the wagon of mtatrinonyv, w; I eid by
goimg to-to--you know what I iiie:imi-to-.
in fact---thuntder
" The worst of it is," said George Wilson,
who had hitherto kept silence, "' that yiu
can't believe any wonian who walks tll i'aith,
when she swe irs shie loves you."  Gomrge
Wilson had recently had soine biitter exper-i
enee with a woman who walked the earth in
the city of' Boston, and was therefore not
very lemiently disposed toward the sex.
"And you sie this girl has sutich partic-
larly strong reasons for making an advanta-
geoumati'h ," added Deene
You torture me to death," moanei poor
Ilolden throwing himself helplessly ito a
hair.  What amn I to do ?
" Put her to the test, as I suggested the
other day," said D)eene.
"Ilow ?"
" Why look here, Bob. Supposing she
were to receive a more eligible ot-r-a rih-
em' moan t hinm you a're-a fashioniable fellow,
who' d promise her more society tihan she ever
had in her gayest lavs--it woul be the best
of all tests, to see if her love for you would
cause her to rejec't hin."
" Who is t he're to make such an offer ?
Deene was silent.
" Do volt iean 'yourself?"
"Why not myt'self, as well as another ? "
' She i'efused you once, man.
That was under very different t-i 'cirium-
stances, miy dear filwiv. She was then rich
old Davison's beautiful daughter; not  lm-
nie Davison, a poor schoolmilistress at Mars-
town. . I have -inherited toy mother's piropi-
erty sinee then, whih gives mie a good fifty
thousand more than I had, ant lmy ilsilne-,ss
has increased wonderfilly during andt since
the war."
" Well, if vou propose to her, and-
and-" Ilohlen's voe ti tinlled and sank
into a low whispuir-'" and she accepts you-
you will marry her  "
.  uileu ,  s Iin I  ho  no  sumili t Iing.i
"Algeruton Dectene,"' shouted Ilolden,
"Now Bob," sai the imperturbable

L
T A.
Pt ,
I
t +
s
r
_i
skit
A+ {{
.yitt


JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

I'
i r

Deene. " Don't get excited--don't be ab-
surd, whatever happens. Why should I mar-
ry a woman who had just committed so das-
tardly an act as to play false to the best fel-
low that ever lived ? You'll thank nie some
day for the ungrateful and disagreeable task
I'm  cutting out for myself here. For if
she remain true to you, you'll be happier for
this test--and if she prove false to you, why
then also, you'll be far happier for the test.
That's logic, isn't it?  Will you give your
consent?"
" Do what you like," said Holden, help-
lessly. " I suppose you mean it for my good."
You must give ine a little help," said
Algy. " I can't manage it quite by myself.
When doyou expect her back from Boonsville,
or Snoozewell, or Goosequill, or whatever
the town's name is ? "
"To-morrow."
" Ah ! Just oblige me by sitting down at
that desk, will you? "
Holden obeyed like a child.
"Now write her a few lines to the effect
that you have lost everything in the world."
Holden looked up into Deene's face with
an expression of blank amazement.
In the world," continued the undis-
mayed Algy ; - that your health is worse than
ever, and that her life, if she joins it with yours.
is likely to be one of constant privation and
of the greatest seclusion. Tell her that,
much as you love her, you feel it your duty
to release her from her engagement unless she
is fully prepared to encounter the dull and un-
interesting life which is the only one possi-
ble for the woman who shall be your wife."
" This farce is as degrading to me as it
is insulting to her," ejaculated holden, writ-
ing as lie was bid, nevertheless, carried
along by the resistless current of Algy's
reasoning.
" Now my dear ft low," continued the
latter, seemingly unconscious of any inter-
ruption, " just oblige me by going away
from Marstown. You and Wilson can go
hunting, or fishing, or to the-excuse me,I
but anywhere just to leave me the field to
myself, you know.   Get off to-day, will
you ?"
Holden arose and left the room without a
word. Wilson lingered.
" I'm afraid this is going to be a serious
business," he said to Deene.
" 'Serious!!' nonsense! I am going to
write a story about it-call it Minnie's Or-
deal or Miss Davison's Test-or something
of that sort."
" I wish I could feel as easy. as you seem
to do. It resolves itself into this, Deene-
if the girl deserts him, it will break his
heart, and if she hangs on, we shall have
made a couple of donkeys of ourselves, that's
all."    .
The next day, when the sun was begin-
ning to get low Algy D~eene in most irre-
proachuable tenue, strolled down the main

II

JOHN MORR

street of Marstown, turned off into a shady
lane, and rapping at the door of a poor-
looking farm house, asked for Miss Davison.
Minnie, hearing a man's voice, flew quickly
down stairs, expecting to see Robert Holden,
The bright flush of happy expectation faded
froi her face, and gave way to an expres-
sion of bewildered astonishment at view of
the elegant. stranger.
"Have four years made such a fearful
wreck of him that Algernon Deene is no
longer recognizable, Miss Davison ? "
"Mr. Deene ! How good of you to come
to see me I I really did not know you at
first. I was not expecting you, you know,
and indeed you are somewhat changed."
The truth was, that Algy Deene was one of
those men who grow handsomer and hand-
somer up to the age of forty. Minnie looked
in amazement at the bright, rosy face which,
without losing any of its youth in the last
four years, had gained greatly in manly ex-
prion.
"Time is a sad dog, Miss Davison," said
Deene, seating himself on a cane-seated
chair, which was so hard it absolutely re-
quired all Algy's good breeding to suppress
an ejaculatory " oh !" on coming in contact
with it.
" Time is not a ' dog' at all, Mr. Deene,"
said Minnie, laughing. " He is a fine old man
with a long white heard, and a scythe in his
hand-at least so the picture-books say."
" You are still the same in everything, I
see ; robe, complexion,-- all!"
" No, I am not," returned Minnie. " As
to ' robe,' I think you remember that I used to
be clad in purple and fine linen; now my
linen is not fine, and my best purple calico
fades dreadfully in the wash-tub. * Com-
plexion' may be better. I think it ought to
be.  The essence of six balls'a week is
a very pgor cosmetic, Mr. Deene;     it
can't compare to country air and country
hours as the true bloom of youth-of nature."
" Then you never sigh for the city, Miss
Minnie? " asked Algy.
" Oh, yes I do-that is to say, I did.
At one time, and indeed until very recently,
it seemed quite impossible for me to ever
getused to this most stupid of little villages.
But we have talked quite enough about me;
tell me about yourself. What on earth
brings you to Marstown? "
" i came on a visit to my old friend, Bob
Holden," answered Deene.
"'Your old friend !' Is Mr. Holden. a
friend of yours? How glad I am to hear it;"
said Minnie.
" Yes, we are old friends, and I promised
myself a delightful time with him, and should
have had it, but for this dreadful stroke of
ill-fortune which has knocked poor Bob com-
pletely off his legs."
1j1" l-fortutie," exclaimed Minnie Davison
springing up. " Ill-fortune to Robert Hol--
den ! What is it ? Oh pray tell me !"

" Why, haven't you heard yet?  Oh to be
sure not. Hoh htas taken such care to keep it
close. Why the fact is, Miss Minnie, Bob
has lost every dollar he had in the world !"
As Algy Deene told this cool falsehood,
the expression of his distingud face was as
innocent as that of any child. And yet his
fashionable code of honor would have been a
blow for the man who dared call him a liar !
A somewhat singular inconsistency-quite in
vogue in Algv's set.
Lost his fortune !-- Robert Holden
poor !" echoed Minnie Davison.
"Poor! Poor's not the word for it. He's
just next door to a beggar," continued the
skillful Algy.
Minnie Davison burst into tears.
"I'm so-so sorry for him," she sobbed
at length.
And so am I," said Algy in a sympathiz-
ing tone; " very sorry, and if you wont take
amiss the bluntness of an old friend, I will
say to you that the only cause for congratu-
lation i see in the whole affair is-well, I
may as well out with it at once-that you
are not married."
" He told you of our engagement, then,"
said Minnie.
"Yes, and I think he's very glad this hap-
pened before matrimonyy"
"l)id he say so? " asked Minnie.
N--no-tnot exactly that. But still I
know he felt what a blow it would be to vou.
You have suffered such great poverty, Miss
Davison. You don't mind my brusqueness,
do you?" ,
" I have suffered dreadfully from poverty ;
I ant suffering now," sighed Minnie. " But
don't talk of ne-what will Robert do ?"
"Oh, he can get a clerkship, I suppose-
or be somebody's secretary, no doubt."
"tRobert Holden in a clerkship ! Robert
Holden somebody's secretary ! "
"XWhy not ?  Better meni-I mean as good
men have had to do it, and scores of them
too. before his time. But these delicate
hands of yours were never meant for any
household drudgery.  Minnie, you were not
born to be the wifb' of a poort man."
" Dear Mr. Deene, you are very good,"
said Minnie rising. " You will pardon my
asking you to leave mue now, will you not? "
"tOh certainly, Miss Minnie," said Algy,
in reality very glad to get away ; " will you
permit me to come again? "
"Very gladly."
" When ? "
" To-morrow."
 " Bob was right," soliloquized Algy as he
turned mnto the mai street.  " I am an un-
principled ruffian.  How I lied to her! And
how she swallowed ever'vthing! Never once
asked how it happened,-but took every word
I said for gospel truth. Well, women are
green ones, there's ito mistake about that."
Algy was more struck with Mininie's beauntv
the second day than he had been the first';

IS'S MOSEY.                             23
for to his taste the pallor which this great blow
had spread over her fice was far more beau-
tiful than the ruddy glow of health which
had bloomed there the day before. I icr long
brown lashes were wet with tears, and, as
Algy entered the wrtel~e little parlor of the
farmo-house, he fotind hot h her ittittde and
speech indicating the greatest dejection.
" I have more news for you to-day ; " said
Alg seating himself heidihe her.
Yes ?" said she, eagerly, " What is it?"
A letter from Robert." le held it up,
and she snatched it quickly. She read it
aloud. . It ran thus-
Mr DEAR MINNIE :-It is with the ut-
most grief I announce to you the complete
loss of my fortune. I need not tell you that
I feel it my duty to at once release you from
your engagement of marriage iiatde to mne
under such very different circumstances. It
is-the highest proof of love I can give you
thus to relinquish what is far dearer to me
than fortune or friends, or all the world be-
side. But I must give you this proof, and I
feel doubly constrained to do so by the knowl-
edge that my health was never worse than at
present; this, coupled with my wretched pe-
cuniary position, will entail upon the woman
who consents to be my wife the greatest self-
abnegation in all that relates to society and
the varied charms of a city life; for, without
doubt, 1 shall be tied to this miserable vil-
lage for the remainder of my (lays.
Minnie, I shall take it very kidly if you
will write me a word on this subject. I know
your answer in advance. Despair has told it
tme. But nothing can sting me so nmuch com-
ing from you-nothng so much as silence.
Your loving,      R. II.
"Bravo, Bob!" was Algy's mental criti-
cism on this piece of epistolary literature.
When he looked up he found Minnie lean-
ing back, with closed eves, in her chair, look-
ing so ghastly white that Deene thought she
must have fainted. Ile seized her hands and
began chafing them violently.
" Don't be alarmed," she said ; "' it is
nothing. It will soon be over."
There is no more in that letter than I
told you yesterday."
" No ; but seeing it in his hand-writing,
and poor Robert's way of putting it touched
me a little, you know. Where can I send
the answer ? "
" You needn't trouble yourself about the
answer for a week. Bob is off, and writes
tme he will be back then, when lie hopes I
shall be able to hand hiv your reply."
" I shall have it ready; " said Miss Davi-
son, shaking her head sadly.
"Minnie, how it grieves en to see you so
distressed !
Then there was a long pause and at length
lDeene said in a low voice,
"Do you know Minnie, you were vei'y
cruel to mue once? "

": .
_t
4
YS 'T
;,
x
1. ,;
,    '   f
S
+ t
1


24

JOHN MORRIS' MONEY.,

I tt
ii
i

" Have you not forgotten that yet?"
asked Minnie.
'No indeed-not I-and never shall until
you cause me to do so by some very great
act of kindness. You know I loved you
desperately, do you not?"
"I suppose you thought you did, or you
never would have proposed to me."
" I loved you very, very devotedly, and
your rejection of ime nearly broke ny heart;
and Minnie-why should I conceal the truth ?
I love you now more, much more than ever."
" Mr. Deene! " exclaimed Miss Davison,
"is this an insult ?"
" Is it an insult to ask you to become my
wife "
She looked at him with astonishment de-
picted in every feature. le continued,
without waiting for a reply :
" You are now off with this unfortunate af-
fair of poor Bob. He releases you himself;
and quite the correct thing in him, under the
circumstances. And indeed, dear Minnie,
it would not have been a very suitable match
for you at the best; 'pon my word, it wouldn't.
His ill health, his fondness for this stupid vil-
lage where they don't even have the decency
to manufcture anything even of so prosaic
a character as shoes -like Lynn, you know,
for instance-which are useful in the main,
though unpleasant to the olfactories when
new. On the other hand, myself, gay like
yourself, fomd of society, in splendid health,
with plenty of money, and loving you very
earlyl, I repeat Minnie that I offer you my
hand and-you know    what I mean-my
heart."
. " 1 am very much astonished at this," said
Minnie Davison.
I don't want to hurry you,'pon my word
I don't. Take time before you answer. I'll
give you a week, if you like. Only promise
me- you'll think about it."
. I promise," said Minnie.
It was very well for Miss Davison that
there happened to be vacation at her school
that week, otherwise Mr. Deene's attendance
would have interfered sadly with her duties;
for he was with her almost constantly, every
day fromnoon till long past sunset. The
week passed quickly to both, and now the
day had arrived for Robert Hiolden's return.
" Have you written Bob's answer?" said
Algy that evening, holding her hand, as they
stood leave-taking at her gate.
" Yes, here it is," said Minnie, drawing
the letter from her pocket, and placing it in
his hand.
" You won't say positively whether you
will have me or not, Minnie."
" You really have given me such a short
time for reflection. What's a week after all?
But I tell you what," she added, "you
will know very well when Robert reads
out that letter' how I feel toward you,
and what your chances are for the future."

JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

"'Dear, beautiful girl ! " exclaimed Algy,
pressing her hand violently. '' Ah, Minnie !f
won't you give me a kiss before I go? "
" No," she said with pretty archness of
tone; " I don't think that would be right
just yet."
" There's no objection.to my kissing your
hand, is there ? "
There was no objection to his kissing her
hand, and so he kissed it.
Holden and Wilson had arrived an hour
before Algy returned to the house. Holden
did not trouble himself to make any conpli -
mentary inquiries in'regard to health or
weather, but blurted out instantly:
"Well, what's the news?"
"My dear fellow, you are a goner."
"For heaven's sake, drop your senseless
jargon and tell me plainly-is the girl false
to me ?"
"Read for yourself, my boy," returned
Algy. " And read out loud; mind,. that
was one of the conditions."
Robert seized the note roughly, tore open
the envelope and read:
"MY DEAR ROBERT:
" When I was more aceustoned to soci-
ety. and knew exactly when men were saying
what they did not mean, and when they meant
what they did not say, I should perhaps have
been better able to comprehend the exact
bearing of your letter. But now that I have
become to a certain degree unsophisticated
and weak, it is difficult for me to understand
whether you really wish to release- min from
my engagement of marriage to vou or
whether you desire a release from me. This
makes your letter a most delicate one for me
to answer; for I fear, reply as I will, I must
appear to you either very indelicate or very
heartless. Heartless I never have been--nor
indelicate either, I trust; and now my only
course is to be simply truthful, at whatever
cost.
" Robert, I thought you knew from the first
day I told you I loved you that I loved you
to the exclusion, of every human being at
that time, and meant to continue to do so for
all time. _What imports it to mie that you
are poor! I love Robert Holden--not the
farm that Peggs rents, or the grocery shop,
with Mrs. Flynn in arrears. If your health
is bad, so iuch the more reason for me
to be near to render you those little services
which you require. Don't think mu immod-
est when I say that your dear image is in niy
mind from morning till night ; and in my
dreams, from night till morning again. I
love you deeply, truly ; better th:m any man
I ever saw; better than any I ever shall see.
I would rather be your wife if you were a
common laborer in the fields than the wife of
Algernon Deene (who has had the ineffable
imlper'tmnence to propose to me again, and
that too, not five minutes after I got your let-.

1

,
-

25

ter) were lie fifty times a millionaire. I will on very, well indeed-at least that is my
not release you Reo rt, until you write to. opinion."
me frankly that such is your desire. Defer  Thus encouraged I began.
our marriage, if you think it necessary,
though I see no reason why I may not con-  " I don't see, grandmamma, why you should
tinue my school-teaching  as well then as always force us to coax you so before you
now. -Do as you like, my darling; but do ever tell us a story," said Annie pouting.
not-oh do not take from   me your love,    " But my dears," remonstrated grandmain-
for I only live because I am your own, own  ma, " you keep me at it so constantly that I
MINNIE." neglect other duties just to amuse you."
I think, to amuse her grandehilren
Algernon Deene gave a long whistle.    should be the first duty of every right-mind-
" I knew niy girl! I knew my girl ! I told ed grandma," said Will, a saucy lad of six-
you so," said Robert Holden, triumphantly. teen. " And as for Countess Thingemy's
"Well, my dear fellow, at least give me Thingemv-bob cloak, you have promised to
the credit of having had the best inten- tell us about that more times than I can
tions-"                                  count."
" Certainly, Algy, your were all right   " That's no sign that it has been often,"
But, so far as '"good intentions' are concerned, said Annie, making ratheria pointed allusion
did you ever hear of a certain place being to Will's arithmetical deficiencies.
paved with them ? "" If I promised," said grandinamma, pick-
ing uip her knitting and resigning all hopes
Robert and Minnie still live in the country of a visit to the kitchen and laundry for that
at Minnie's express request. The house is morning: " if I promised I wil do so at
very comfortable, and it is so quiet there once.  I'm always as good as my word."
(for baby is very good, and loes'nt cry   " You are better than your word, grand-
much)-so differ ent, you know, to the noise ma. You are better than anything. You
and bustle of the city. Minnie never finds it are the best grandma I ever knew. Perkins'
dull ; for, with her husband's society, and his grandma can't hold a candle to you ; for
books and her magazines, and her baby, and though she gives P. lots of money, still she
above all, Robert's love, she declares she scolds hin like-like-I don't know what--"
knows the exact geographical position of concluded Will, in hopeless despair of find-
Utopia, for she inhabits it. Perhaps she is img a simile.
very silly to be content to pass her life in a  " Well, after I begin  no interruptions,
stupid Massachusetts village ; but so long as please," said grandma.
she is happy, there is no use trying to wake  " Not an eruption," replied Will, who had
the once brilliant New York girl from her been reading some of the funny papers.
dream, is there ?                          " Well, dears, the first time I ever heard
of the strange creature, who went by the
name of the Countess Carry, I was quite a
young girl-almost a child, it seems to me
now ; but I think, nevertheless, I must have
been nearly twenty. Twenty appears very
IV.                    young when one gets to be almost seventy,
as you will find if you live so long, ny dears.
ABOUT NOTHING.                 I was living then with my mother mo a very
 ,.    .   fashionable street-don't laugh, lleise-a
M  story to-night John," said I taking square or two below Canal street-and as it
a little sip of water to wet my lips: " has for was generally known that we were not only
title:                                   rich people, but people of good blood as
well, we were treated with much defiereiice
'The Countess Carry's Canary Bird     by all our neighbors. In fact, our doings
Cloak.'                   and our sayings absorbed the attention of all
John burst out laughing.               about us, when one fine (lay our brilliancy
'. I knew it would come to that," lie ex- was destined to receive an eclipse by the
claimed.                                 advent of the Countess Carry.
Come to what, sir ? " I inquired, some-  No one knew exactly who she was, and
what inlignantly.                        she took good care no one should find out,
; Why, to talking about women's duds, and perhaps fi-on the very mystery which
cloaks and dresses and bonnets-and-and surrounded her she attracted teln-fold the
hoop skirts !"                     ,     notice she otherwise would have done. She
"If you teaze inc I shan't open lmy lips," never appeared in public except when she
I replied, pootiig ; for I was a novice at this went for a drive im her great. heavy, coro-
story-telling  business, and anything like netted coach, the blinds of which were care-
ridicule completely upset me.            fully drawnl downi dulimg the entire time the
" Nonsense, child," said Aunt Julia. "' Be occupant was inside.
quiet, Johni. Go nNel oly ; you are getting  I don't see what good it did her to drivo


26                 JOHN MORRIS' MONEY.

'
.,  ;
-ti
f
i_
't
t
i
['  ;
.i, )
' t
qi  t
.er i
a
:x
,k {
f

out; for surely never a breath of air pene-
trated those heavy, yellow silk carriage cur-
tains ; and as for view-why of course that
must have been quite shut out, unless she
permitted herself to enjoy it when she got
out of town, on the Bowery.
The house which the Countess Carry had
taken stood directly opposite to ours, and,
from the day she entered it till the day she
left, I never saw any of-the shutters open.
People said she kept her lamps and candles
burning all day long; and that there was
truth in this, I myself know. I will tell
bow, presently. She lived quite alone with
a solitary attendant in the shape of a shriv-
elled-up old man, a foreigner, who drove her
coach, and groomed her horses, and cooked
her dinners, and did her chamber-work, the
neighbors said, after the fashion of foreign
men-servants. The Countess herself was a
foreig wr. Oh, yes, to be sure; we have no
titles-   ou know that; and had not then,
any more than now.
It appears that we were even in the dark
as to her true name. Lawyer Watkins, who
lived next door to us, said it was the Count-
ess Quarrie, or the  Countess Corrie, or
something like that. But we always called her
the Countess Carry, from the day she came
amongst us till the day she left. You can
easily imagine that the curiosity which such
a woman awakened, coming in the midst of
quiet people like ourselves, was intense.
Not that she was otherwise than quiet;
she was as quiet as the grave itself. Except
for the noise of the rumbling coach which
rattled down the street twice a day-once to
go and once to return-never a sign of life,
never a show of being, issued from the
Countess Carry.
But it was the very mystery which envel-
oped her-the deathlike silence as of the
grave, which seemed to throw a pall over the
existence of a human being full of life and
health probably, that awakened the wonder
of the neighbors, and gave rise to a thou-
sand wild-theories concerning the strange
self-immuring of this foreign lady.
A story gained ground that she was in-
sane, and that the old man-servant was her
guardian or keeper. There was not any
lbundation for this, however, and it seemed
scarcely probable that a person who had
free ingress and egress to  her carriage
every day (for the man-servant always bow-
ed her out and bowed her in at a respectful
distance) should not call or cry out to pass-
ers-by if it were true that she was under re-
straint of any kind. Another was to the ef.
feet that she was a beautiful young creature
who had been abominably treated by a
wretch of a husband-another was that she
was a beautiful young wretch who had treat-
ed a good husband abominably, and been
deserted both by him and the man she de-
ceived him for ; another was something else,
and another something else again-and at

last speculation about her ceased, for noth-
ing could be found out. Whether the heavily-
veiled, gracefully-draped figure which glided
daily into, -the c arriage was young or old,
beautiful or hideous, rich or poor-or, for
the matter of that, male or female-who
could tell?
Some of the more determined neighbors
had. called upon her in the early days, but
the old man-servant who took their names at
the door said that Madame the Countess
felt very grateful for their courtesy, but beg-
ged to be excused from receiving their visits
or making any in return.. And so. little by
little, the mystery, still unsolved, of the
Countess Carry died by degrees. That is to
say, lively curiosity died because the novel-
ty of the affair had worn off; but the embers
wonderment, unquenched, were only smould-
ering, and might easily be revived with a
breath.
You know, my children, how very fond I
am of birds. Everything relating to these
beautiful feathered tribes-the lively denizens
of mid air-has the greatest interest for me.
It is not to be wondered at, therefore, if my
special curiosity was awakened on reading
the following advertisement in " Hoxr's NEW
YORK JOURNAL " (and a very nice paper it
was, my dears, though of course it is a thing
of the past now).
The advertisement ran thus:
" WANTED. Any number of canary birds
alive or dead; highest prices will be paid.
Address C. C. at the Post Office of New
York, America."
" There's a chance for you to make some
money. Maria," said my mother to me, on
reading it.
" Indeed ! " replied I, tossing my head.
" It's very probable I should think of selling
my canary birds that William Allston brought
me from-from-China."
I was an ignorant little puss, dears, as
most girls of my age were then. But I knew
that your grandfather, handsome Will All-
ston had brought me six beautiful canaries
from some foreign country where he had been
with his ship-THE REBEL COLOST-an 1
I knew that I prized them very highly, both
for the sake of the birds, which were indeed
rare at that time, as well as for the sake of
the sailor lad to whom I was engaged. I
think about a week had elapsed after the ad-
vertisement ceased appearing (for it appear-
ed many times) when I was busily occupied
cleaning my bird cages and giving the mock-
ing-birds a new kind of seed which had just
come out, and trying to keep the English
larks alive by another treatment, and survey-
ing my Robin Redbreast admiringly, and
perkimg out my lips with little morsels of pared
.apple on thmemi to my darlings of all, the ca-
naries. when chancing to turn imy eyes to-
wards the house opposite I saw a female
figure standmig at the window, minutely

watching my actions with a telescope, or a
large spyglass, or something like that ! I
knew it was the Countess Carry ; but she had
got to be rather an old story now. It was
a nuisance, wondering who she was. and what
she looked like, and never being able to find
out. So I finished my birds toilette, pushed
the aviary into the sun, and left the room.
I called it my aviary, (lears. I suppose it
was very pretentious in me to do so, for it
was onlh- a great cage, about as long as that
jpano, dividedd off into compartments for the
different birds. That was my aviary. I had
scarcely got down into the breakfast parlor,
where I generally sat in the morning and
worked at useless and ugly emhroiderv,
such as was in style then, when Sdsan. our
little English maid, rushed in, and told me
that " Please Miss, that strange lady-the
Countess Carry--is in the drawing-room, and
asking to see you !
Here   was 'astounding  conduct !  This
extrao rdinary creature, who had refused the
visits of the first people of the neighbor-
hood-heads of families and their stuck-up
wives-coming of her own accord to call on
little Maria Wentworth ! I really felt quite
nervous, and gave my white neckerchief a
new fold, and my hair an elalhua«i re-ar-
rangement, before I mustered up courage
enough to go in and meet her.
She rose as I entered, and, throwing back
her heavy veil which, though she sat alone
and in a darkened room, still covered her
face, advanced toward me. She held out
both hands and, drawing me on to the sofa
beside her, kissed me first on one cheek, then
on the other, before she spoke a word. Then
I had time to scan her features. She was
old ; oh, yes, past fifty, I should think ! IHer
hair was gray, but her eyes, though evidently
wear with mental cares and physical suffer-
ing, were bright, soft, and beautiful ; her fea-
tures were regular to perfection ; and though
I was a little, inexperienced girl, with scar'e-
ly any knowledge even of the beauty of my
own sex, I could not help seeing how marvel-
ously lovely this woman must have been in
her prime.
" You are astonished to see me," she said
-after a pause, speaking in such defective
English that I could scarcely understand her.
Of' course I answered that I was very glad
to see her.
" You are a sweet enfant," she said,
" what you call one little darling !"  Then
she kissed me again.
I did not know what to reply to this. By-
and-by she spoke again.
"You are fond of birds? "
Oh, very," I answered, aroused by the
introduction  of my favorite topic. "Are
you?"
" Some birds I like." she replied.  Some
I hate," hissing out the word iin an extraoir-
dinarily vehement manner. " Indeed, I

]hate them all except one kind, and those I
love to distraction."
What kind is that ? " I asked wonderi(ing-
lv.
She looked about the room as if to assure
herself that no one but myself was listening,
and then leaning over towards me, she whis-
pere'd mysteriously-      -
Canaries."
Those are my favorites too," I replied.
"c I anm never so happy as when I n 1 caring
for them, and ministering to their lit tle om0-
forts, and keeping them from sickness-for
birds do get sick, von know."
Yes, but I don't care for that. I don't
care if they die.  I like them just as well
dead as alive."
"What !'" said I, horrified.  " You like
them as well dead as alive! "
Better," answered she in a ehm.klinu
tone  " it saves so much trouble."
" I don't mind the trouble," I replied, in-
dignantly.  " I would clean their cages, and
put fresh water into their baths a dozen
times a (day, if it were necessary."
Yes," said the Countess Carry, " that's
all very fine.  But when they die naturally
it saves one the t rouible of killing them.I
don't like to kill them. It pains one just as
much to (10 it as if it were a homnuant being
one were killing.   Still," she continued,
with a sigh, " it has to be (lone."
I thought now of the report which hbad been
circulated to the effect that she was insane,
and I fully believed it. I was beginning to
be terribly frightened of her. Suppose she
were to imagine I was a canary bird, and that
killing " me '' had to be done !"
The bell-pull was at an immense distance
across the room, but the Countess ('arr was
leaning back on the sofa, with her eves eloseil,
the long lids sweeping the haded (-heek, antd
the soft ripples of her silvery hair shading her
wrinkled fhrehead. how lovely she looked
thus ! Spite of time and age, and suffering
and infirmity, she was emphatically the most
beautiful woman I had ever seen.
She sprang froii her recumnbent position
so suddenly that it gave me a shock which
sent my poor little heart quite into my mouth.
She started on a new "' tack " this timne.
" I)o vou like dress ? What we call, vou
know, la toilette 2"
" Yes." I answered hesitatingly, " I sut)-
pose every voung girl does."
" Young girl ! Faugh ! what are voung
girls ? What do they know about toilette ?
No, no, no, no ! It is we-ah-les granles
dames de la court, who look well with dress-
we must have it. I1 nuns la femt!"
" Every woman, then," I'ventured to re-
mark, " every woman mu strives to be as beamuu-
tifuully' dresseit as she c:n."
SYes," shne said again chuck hung ; " b ut
let them strive as5 they will, they will never
have anything like mine. So original, so

JOHN MORRIS' MONEY.                           27


JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

very beautiful, so delicate to the complexion
-ah how belle I shall be !"
You are that now, Madame," I said,
with truthful admiration of her beauty.
" You think so? "she exclaimed, evidently
pleased. " But wait till you see me-will it
ever be finished? or shall I die first ? Ah, mon
Dieu ! "
I had not a word to say, for what with her
rambling discourse and her dreadful French-
English, I could scarcely understand what
she was talking about.
" Let me see your birds," said she, with
sudden animation.
I did not want to take her where thev'
were. I had a sort of inward warning that
I m-st beware of this woman; but I was
afraid of' her; positively afraid to disobey
her, and I really believe if she had asked me
for the carving-knife, so that she might cut
mv throat neatly, I should have rushed off
with great alacrity and brought it to her.
"Where are they ?" she asked.
"cUp stairs."
I hate stairs," she murmured.  " I hate
stairs and people, and creatures of all sorts,
except-canaries."
" Perhaps you had better not go up," I
suggested, hoping she would decline on ac-
count of the stairs.
" No, no," she answered, " No, I will go
where they are. I wonder if there are any
canary birds in heaven ! I suppose so. Alh
mc ! " with a deep sigh, " it must be a beau-
tiful place if there are. I hope 1 shall go
there. I think I shall. I have never done
anything very wicked. It is not very wicked
to kill poor little canaries-still-" (sighing
again,) " It is painful,"
I determined that this flighty Countess
Carry should not get very near my canaries.
Whether or not it was wicked to kill them was
an open question. My own opinion was that
it was frightfully wicked to do so. However,
she should have no opportunity, so far as
mine were concerned, to commit this wicked
or innocent act.
I opened the door of the bird-room, as
we called it, and saw that my little canaries
were all there, all right in the cage. I pre-
(eded the Countess, and intended to-keep in
front of her the whole time she was in the
room, but, bless you! before ever she crossed
the threshold, and as soon as she caught sight
of the cage, she uttered a piercing shriek
and fell down on the floor in a (lead swoon !
I tried to raise her, but could not. I call-
ed for help, but no one cane. That stupid
Susan had gone out, and so had all the family,
leaving me alone in the house. I chafed the
Countess' cmld hands trying to revive her,
but there she lay, prone like a dead thing, in
the passage-way before the door of the bird-
room. Suddenly a frightful thought crossed
my brain. Was shte dead :  Q'uck as light--
nling I sprang over her priostrate form.i and in
a minute after I was pounding away at the

it
1 :

house opposite, the door of which was open-
ed by the foreign man-servant.
" Come," said I, seizing his withered arm.
Come across the street to our house. Your
tmistress-t'm afraid she's dead !"
Grand Dieu!"lie muttered, raising his
bony hands and shaking theta abovc his
head-, " is it possible ! " a
By this time a crowd had assembled, and,
as I returned with the old man, our house be-
gan to fill with gaping creatures, wandering
about the rooms after they had fully surveyed
the prostrate form of the wretched woman,
who lay exactly where I had left her, having
apparently never stirred. The old servant
lifted her tenderly in his arms, carried her
across the street, banging the door in the
faces of a dozen inquiring people ; and little
by little the excitement faded out and quiet
was restored. Mamma returned to-the house
and put me to bed with a nervous headache,
and - there I stayed till the next morning.
The first thing I thought of on waking was
my birds; and so, loading myself with seed
and apples and fish-bone, which we kept in
the pantry, I threw on my wrapper and went
to the bir'd-room.
Oh my darling children ! It makes inc cry
now to think of it Alt my beautiful cana-
ries were gone!
I knew that woman hadtaken them., I
could have sworn to it. Evary bit of passion
in my nature was aroused, and I felt I could
almost kill this hideous female fiend who
had first stolen my beautiful pets and then,
no doubt, in her mad folly, killed them. I
cry now, but I couldn't cry then, for all the
devil in me was awakened. I had lost all
fear of her, and her insanity. I walked
across the street, and pounded lustily at the
ugly green-panelled door. I think I must
have been there ten minutes before any no-
tice was taken of the noise I was making-
enough to rouse the sleepers in Trinity
churchyard. At length the old. man peered
from a'window above.
" What you want?" he asked.
"Comedown here at once," I screamed,
" and listen to what I've got to say."
In a moment he opened the door-only
partly however, and determined to oppose
any effort which might be made to force an
entrance. I saw that.
" Let me in," I exclaimed. " I want to see
your mistress
"Ahje regrette; but impossible. Madame
la Comtesse-poor lady, so very ill-very
near to die; but she get better.
Where are my canaries ? You dreadful
old man, you knov well enough if you would
but tell."
"Ala Mademoiselle, and I who can not
comprehend but so'very bad the English--
and sonie other day when Madame will be
hetter-permetez that I present my respects
to Mademoiselle." So saying he closed the
door' iin my face.

28

The same scene or one very similar occurred
every day for a month.
There was no use remonstating with mre on
the folly of my deternunation. I had re-
solved to see the Countess Carry once more.
At the end of a month I su1c'cecde(I in my de-
sire. I was standing in the hall-way of' metr
rattle-trap of a house, when she suddenly
burst out from a room at its remote endl.
Though the door of this room had only bemi
open for a moment, I saw that, broad sun-light
as it was outside, the windows and curtains
were closed and the room lit up with candles.
There was a musty odor issued from it, and
it appeared to me that on the air was borne
a curious sort of floating down not unlike
that which covers the breast of swans. The
Countess brushed her dress nervously as she
approached iiet; perhaps she was afraid some
of this was clinging to her gown.
" I wait my hirds," I said, roughly-" iy
canaries. Where are they? "
"Poo' child," she said in her bad English,
is you often--what yon call--razy."
"Madam," said I, " this is no'laughing
matter. I am not crazy. Th dI'lay you were
at our house I lost mny six beaumtifil canaries.
You cannot wonder, after your singular con-
versation that day, coupled with the disap-
pearance of' my birds, that I should suspect
you; and I ask you again, where are my
canaries ?"
"IMy child, was I or was I not to faint in
your house '"
" You (lid." I answered.
And you suppose I amuse myself by to f4l
down, to cut my head, and then to get up,
take your birds, and fall to faint again P "
I don't know what you did, or what you
would do," I replied savagely.
" But it is necessary to remember that I
have plenty of money. Money buys every -
thing-you know that. I can buy canaries."
"You can't," I retorted, " you can't. You
put that advertisement in, and no one had
any birds to sell you. You know that as
well as I do. Canaries are most difficult to
get.- They come from a far distant country
-China- or - or Amster lan -- or -'some
place."
What shall I say?" she replied shrug-
ging her shoulders.  " If you want money
from ne I will give money. I know noting
about your birds. Ilow should I? What
money'will you have ? "
" None," I replied. " I want nothing but
toy birds, and aj t cannot het them I will go
away from you."
"Cas't cela," she answered, " that is best.
And alt-one word. Do not come here not
one time more. I hate you very   uch. I
might kill you.  I have no knives. Constant
takes all the knives away from mtin'. But I
have scissors. Ah, smon Dien! One oust
have scissors for my work. Dom't you think
I could kill you with miy seissor's? "
" I dare say you could," I answered, " I

dare say you have already killed tiny pe'r-
sonlS, you wi'k'l woman
" No, no," slie replied coolly ; " yoU tmae
a mistake.   I have never killed any person.
Ilirds-that is different.  lo not like to lii
that. But que o'ordez-vous? It has to be done."
)isgusted with herjargon amd t he sent itmient
of it, I left tIhe house'.
I neer saw the Countess again but on (nt'e
occasion.  It was at the Governor's ball. Of
coure we weie invited, aind as no one seemed
to believe tme when I asserted that she was a
ravmig mad-woman, she was imvited also.   I
shall never forget how beautiful she looked .
Iier hair was powdered until it was a lead
white, and that was greatly the fashion theen.
No doubt she was rouged slightly, and per-
haps her eyelids blackened with no  uliun
but it' this was the case it was most skillfully
lone-executed probably by a master-hand.
Her costume was composed of the richest
materials, her diamonds were positively daz-
zlinig to the eye, while over hem shoulders
was fing a delicate lemon-coloreil cloak of
some Curious and, to  mte, unknown tissue.
At first I thought it was satin-theni t struck
mute it was fur; ani when I drew nearer, what
on earth do you suppose I fbuanl it was made
of?
Of the feathers of hundreds and hundreds
of poor little canary birds
Oh, mmy hears, I positively raved ! 'Ihis
then was the grave of' my six little darlings.
All gone-sacs hiced--killed   to sati-fy the
vaumty of this horrible, passe, wickel old
commit flrt!
She was dancing in a beautiful, stately
manner with the Governor, anl I walked
straight utp to hmun and touched  himi oi the
shoulder.  Mamma tried to hmold1 mem' back,
but I would go.
I)on't," said I--"dom't, youi' Exce'llen'mi'y
-don't dance any mnore with tlat wicked oldo
woman-that-that nu'de'ess!
Sueh a scene of' coifision as ensued ! Papa
and mamma hurried me away. IThey were
afraid something dreadful woild happen to
me for my bobdness ; and, goimg houmm ithe
carriage, they settled to send me to the country
the next morning, out of this wonmtm:1t's reach.
But, bless your hearts ! before ever the sun
rose the next mormng, every v('st ige of the
Countess Carry, her oh1 man-servant, an oher
eauia'y-biwd cloak, had disappeared froimi lthe
rattle-trap house  with the green-pane lled
(loo'.
She had taken ship for France.
And now comes the strangest part ,of all.
Before the year was out I got a letter f'om
her.  It 'ran thus
" Petitei Mserable
I am very gooll cnfant, or I should have
killed yot for wvhIat you did that omiglint..  But
1 have mnever killed any huuumani beimg vet,
amnd hope I shall niever' lie ohled to do so.
I thinmmk I ('aim get ont without killing anmy one.


30                JON MORRIS' MONEY.JOHN MORRIS' MONEY.

I have killed quantities of canaries. Yes,
dear, I killed  Yours.  I squeezed  their
throats so they should make no noise that
day when vou thought I was fainting on the
stairs. Was it riot cleverly played, that
farce ? You see, for fifteen years I have
been working at a beautiful garient. Re-
ckerce in the extremtte -- a cloak composed
entirely of canaries' feathers. It would have
been a pity to disappoint me, would it not,
I had set my heart on it for so long?  Such
an original idea, too ! My relatives in France
say I amt insane, and for that reason they
sent me over to Atme-rica for eange of air'.
Bali ! such tr'aslh. They sent that good ca.-
tille Constant with me. lie is idiot, but
obedient. Sometimes I think of killing hint
because he has yellow skin, the same color as
my cloak. buch impertinent rivalry of my
favorite color, anl by a servant !
" Did I not look beautiful that night ? The
Governor was jist telling ine how ravishingly
belle I was when you stepped up to him.
You .poor little cat ! Which do you think
looked most like a mad-woman at that mo-
ment, you or I?
"Apropos, was not the cloak becoming!
That delicate shade. cl, like citrons. Your
birds just finished the collar. - I don't know
how I should  have completed it without
them. Only think-fifteen years' work. I
think you ought to lie delighted.
" Take the bank-note for two hundred
francs, which you will find in this letter, and
huy yourself a new gown.    That will be
more valuable to you than any birds.
" Do as I bid you at once; and remember
all your life, you stupid little republican, that
you have had the honor of receiving a letter
from a titled lady of France.
" LA COITESSE CLARISSE DE LA QUARRI."
I was so outraged by this impudent letter
that I was just on the point of throwing the
wicked old thing's bank-note into the fire,
but mamma stopped nec by saying that I had
better keep it, as it would bny many little
things that I wanted for my wedding outfit.
William Allston and I were married in the
spring, and what do you think your grand-
father gave me for my wedding present ?
A dozen-a whole dozen-beautiful young
canary birds !
V.
ABOUT NOTHING-SHORTER.
"What shall I write you down-ahem !-
to-n iglt, Nell?" asked John.-" MY CLI-
rNT FROM BROOKiYN ? "
" Your client ? Well, upon my word-the
deas of woman. Eht! yourr client ! So you're
a lawyer, are you? What'll you be next, I
'wonder? "

" Very angry at you, sir, if you don't stop
teazing me."
" Do be quiet, my dear boy," said Aunt
Julia. "Silence in the court-house!"
Yes," continued John Morris, "the
eat's a going to speak.
My Client from Brooklyn.
A lawyer's office is not a very attractive
place, Its only merit, if a necessity can be
called a merit, consists in its exquisite neat-
ness.  Those innumerable bundles of pa-
pers, systematically arranged, correctly la-
belled, and jauntily tied with the much abus-
ed red tape, those mysterious tin boxes,
whose contents are happily unknown to the
uninitiated, and spring-lock drawers, which
open but to the master's key. That key I
possessed. Of those drawers-of that room,
I was the master. At No 21 Wilsop street I
was monarch of all I surveyed, and itis but
fair to say that my kingdom none did dispute.
I hope it will not be understood by this that
I was a poor starvehing, with an empty purse
and a full green-bag. Nothing of the sort.
I was overwhelmed with business, and if it
had not been for the merest accident I might
have sent away, and never seen my client
from Brooklyn.
She had called several times and sent in
her name-Miss Wharton; but I was busy
each day, and sent out polite regrets, and
the desire that she might call again. She
did so, and again I was occupied and could
not see her. But, on a certain Monday
morning, I sat alone in my office, conning
over the papers in re Daily Comet.  The
Daily Comet was a newspaper which had
been set afloat by a capitalist who was assur-
ed by the would-be editor that there was
never such an investment offered as that
which- was now presented to his admiring
gaze. And, indeed, this was quite true.
Never was there such an investment for simk-
ing funds. The paper, deeply in debt before
ny client took hold of it, had an odd peculi-
arity of getting more so the more money
furnished it; so, after bearing this literary
atlas for a period of ten months, my client
threw up the concern in disgust, and vowed
lie would have nothing more to do with it.
This, however, was easier said than done. It
flavored of a good joke-his saying he would
have "nothing more to do with it ;" for the
Daily Comet was not a load to be shaken off
lightly, as he found, to his cost.
The Old Man of the Sea never clung to
the sailor's back with more tenacity than did
the floating debts of the Daily Comet to my
unhappy client.  In vain he writhed and
groaned and tried to repudiate ; creditors
seemed, like the victims of jealousy, to make
the meat they fed on, and no mushroom
growth of a night ever sprung up with more
rapidity than did this Daily Comet fungi,
poisoning the happiness of my unfortunate
friend-.

"i 4
i
f
it
E
I
f
4
t
11
j'
i+

On this particular Monday morning then,
be it known,,I had an engagement in my
office. with the gentleman in question, and I
had left word that on no condition was I to
be disturbed by other parties. The hour
fixed for our meeting was ten o'clock, and I
had specially enjoined my client to be pune-
tual ; but spite of my request, ten, half past
ten, a quarter to eleven arrived, and still no
Cornet man. I rose impatiently, and called
one of my clerks.
" Rodgers," said I, "I can't stop any
longer for Mr. Indette. Tell him to call
again, At five."
The clerk answered "yes'er," and hand-
ed me, my umbrella from the corner,,(for it
was raining cats and dogs, as the saying is).
1 put on my hat and stepped out into the
passage.
It was rather dark there, and my eye-sight
is none of the best, but I immediately saw a
slender figure shrink back in. a corner as
I emerged noisily from my rooms. I hate 1
mystery. I hate'it of all things; and given
a rainy morning in the (dull, suicidal month of
November, a thark passage-way in an oflices-
buildinig, a shrinking female dressed in black,
looming out of a cobweby back-ground, and
what can you make of it but a mystery of the
most mysterious sort ? I was determined to
probe it. Yes, probe it I would; and that
quickly.
"What do you want, my good woman?"
I shouted, asif she were very deaf. I had
somehow conceived the idea that she was old;
so I called her " my good woman."  Women
are generally more " good " at an advanced
period of life than where they are young and
pretty, and have temptations cast in their
was'.
The " good woman" came forward timidly,
and then I saw that she was a girl of about
twenty, with a fresh, blooming young face,
but with a seared expression of eyes, as
though she were laboring under a great fear
of some terrible catastrophe about to happen.
" I want to see Mr. Alexander Bywood,"
said the " good woman " looking about as if
such a desire were highly reprehensible, and
would presently meet with the punishment it
deserved.
" That's me," said I, with a patronizing
air.  I should have said "that's 1," shouldn't
I'? I know it. We lawyer-folk ought to be
mighty particular about our grammar. But
we're not. We fall into error as well as un-
legal people, once in a while.
" Indeed, sir," said she in a tremulous
voice and looking more frightened than ever;
"could I-if it will not take too much of
your time-,consult you about a little affair-
very trifling to be sure-but I have come
several times to see you and never succeeded
--and it's something of a trip too-I live in
Brooklyn."
I confess I was cross that morning. The
oetman had made roe hose a good hour of

my time, and I had a vague idea that this was
a client who was never going to pay me any-
thing. 1 had no positive engagement out,
and the Connet, in its eccentric flight, might
dash in upon me at any minute ; so I resolved
to go back. I put my latch-key into ire key-
hole of my private office, and let my client
from Brooklyn enter. Before she seated her-
self she deftly slipped some notes into my
hand, and I saw at a glance that they count-
ed up into a larger fee than I generally re-
ceived for a first visit; so it was evident she
was not going to be an unremunerative client.
The knowledge of this mollified in  a little,
though I took up the notes with a disdainful
air, and placed them far away from rme at the
remote end of my desk as if they and their
like were thoroughly beneath the notice of a
great person like myself. This was far from
being the case; for I was buying myself an
expensive house in an up-town street, paying
for it by tri-yearlf' instalments, and all fees,
large or small were of the greatest use.
Having pretty well satisfied her, I fancied,
that I was a very important individual, with
whom there must no fooling, I rocked myself
back in my chair, clasped my hanls at the
back of my head, and staring determine(lly at
the ceiling, told her sharply to " go on."
She went on. She went on very nicely.
Poor young thing ! she went on with a most
trying and delicate story, in such a clear,
concise, modest little way, that before she
had half finished her recital, my dried-njp
parchmnent-like bit of a heart was all aglow
with interest in my client from Brooklyn.
It was an awful task, her getting out that
story. But she did it, never omitting a de-
tail that might enlighten me ; the same as a
conscientious witness in an infanticide case
" outs with " everything, from the iiminut est
particular in regard to the birth of the child
down to every known detail of its imuritder.
Miss Wharton's story was to tihe following
efleet-
Her mother had (lied when she was too
young to remember much about her, and her
father, who had been in business in New York,
had retiredlto Brooklyn, on a comfortable in-
come, within the past three years. Ile was
now little better than a hopeless invalid,
however; and deeply grounded rr the hearts
of both father and child was a reverential af-
fection for the deceased mother. This quiet
condition of affairs had gone on uninterrupt-
edly until about two months back, when the
peace of the family, or at least of Miss Whar-
ton, had been seriously disturbed. Such
disturbance was caused by the appearance
of a strange looking mran, who, after having
(logged the girl's footsteps for many days. at
length succeeded in so working on her fears
as to induce her to give him a few minutes
hearinrr and in that hearing she learned his
story.
His story was to the effect that his name,
coupled with his rank, was Captain Louis Be!-

~tit,
ar
d  ti

airy~
i i}{
x+ F
N
Lid
I -F11-1

JOHN MORRIS' MONEY.               31


JOHN MORRIS' MONEY.

i~
1i
a# ,
if

JOhIN MORRIS' MONEY.

karp; that shortly after her mother's mar-
riage, himself and she had met, and accord-
ing to the Captain's story, fallen desperately
in love with each otner. After the captain
left the port of New York in his merchant-
man, bound for the West Indies, he had re-
ceived sev"'al letters of the most criminating
character from the infatuated Mrs. Whar-
ton, and the Captain now put it plainly to my
client whether she did or did not think it was
quite worth her while to hand him over one-
half the monthly allowance her father was in
the habit of giving her for the laudable purpose
of inducing him to keep his tongue between
his teeth. It appears Miss Wharton showing
extraordinary firmness for her, had held out
against this impudent demand until he told
her plainly something which he kindly said
he wished to spare her, and which was that
she, Caroline Wharton, was his, Captain Bel-
kamp's daughter! Of course this was a ter-
rihle blow to my client. What one might call
a staggerer. But she rallied enough to ask
him what proof he had of such a thing.
"Oh, proof! He had proof enough. He
had destroyed all his darling Mrs. Whar-
ton's letters-all except one, which told the
whole story. Did Miss Wharton wish to'
read it ?, " No, no," she replied shuddering.
"Very well," answered the Captain, "very
well, only when you do, my lear, there's a
verbatim copy of it," and he slipped the paper
in her hand. "The original I will part with
for- let me see-I would give it to you,
mind, for five hundred dollars.  In the
meantime, dear, only half your monthly
income will prevent my going to-oh-old
Wharton-and destroying his belief in the-
of course-you know-defunct angel. And
as for you, my dear, it seems to me that the
ties of consan-, what-d'ye-eall-'em-guini-
ty, ought to induce you to give that much
of your paltry money to your poorfather !"
She shrank away from him thoroughly
horrified, and for two months had paid him
over half her income. This foolish acces-
sion to his demands had of course embold-
ened him to further importunity, and he was
tow loudly calling for two hundred dollars
in cash, in default of which he was to go
within a week .to Mr. Wharton, lay the
criminating letter before the sick man, and
then take upon himself the pleasant task of
going about to her friends in Brooklyn and
informing them of the stain on Miss Whar-
ton's birth. In this moment of sore distress
(for she really could not get so much money
and pay it out without fully accounting for'
it) she thought she had better consult a law-
yer, and came to me.
I was infuriated at the conduct of this man
Belkamp.   In all my professional experi-
ence I had never heard of anything more
base and vile, than pursuing this innocent
young girl in so savage and indecent a man-
ner. Those timid eyes of hers would have
penetrated the heart of a stone-and this man

who pretended to be her father-I did not
believe a word of it!
Looking at it either way, the wretch must
be the greatest dastard that ever walked un-
hung, supposing it were true ! What a hor-
ruble act this, to be making capital out of the
letter of a woman, who had doubtless loved
him with foolish and blind devotion ! and if
it were false, was it not unheard-of and hid-
eous cruelty to be playing this sharp game on
a guileless and inoffensive girl? Somehow, I
had fully persuaded myself that it was a
lie from beginning to end.
"What a brute !" Iexclaimed, walking ex-
citedly to the window. " What a complete
brute ! Why, law .is far too good for such
scoundrels as he! My advice is to hire some
one to kick him." r
Oh, no sir! " she answered hurriedly,
"oh, no, pray don't think of anything of that
kind ; you don't know, indeed you don't-
how terribly vindictive he is ! Is that really
your legal advice ?"
Poor child ! I suppose she thought she
had paid her fee to a curious sort of lawyer,
whose first advice to her was to drop law and
adopt kicking.
" Where is that letter?" I asked, without
replying to her question.
SWhat letter?"
"Why-the letter that this man has-or
at least the copy. You said you had it."
Ah yes, she had it. She had almost forgot-
ten it. She had never read it. She had
always shrunk from acquainting herself with
more of the facts than she was already pos-
sessed of. Read the letter, expecting to find'
it of a very criminating character, but I was
disappointed.. It was criminating in a nieas-
ure, certainly. It was a silly woman's silly
love-letter to her " Darling Louis."  There
was but a single line of reference to my
client.
" Little Carrie TT'harton is well, and often
asks after the gentleman who gave her the
doll."
Miss Wharton blushed deeply at these un-
derscorings; her sensitive nature leading her
at once to infer that this was a subtle hint of
a common knowledge between the party
writing and the party receiving. Of course,
I observed to her that we had no certainty
that such underscorings existed in the original
document-this copy being in the precious
hand-writing of Captain Louis Belkamp; and
even if they did, might they not have been
placed there by the hand of that honorable
party himself?
No, she was disposed to see it at its worst.
Her mother-and she pronounced the word
mother nervously-her mother had in sarcasm
called her Carrie Wharton, because she had
no right to that name, and-
" And she called him, in sarcasm, the gen-
tleman, because lie has no right to that name
also, I suppose." ,
" What is to be done ?" she asked in des-
nair.

33

" Done ! why, it's as clear as daylight. I'll
have the fellow arrested for illegal attempts
to extort money from you-that's what I'll
do."
A perfect volley of no, no, no's, at this.
She would not hear of it for a moment.
Such a course, no matter how effectually it
put an end to Captain Belkamp's extortion
in the future, would give the affair a notorie-
ty which she was determined at any cost to
avoid. "-Only think how much sufI'ering it
would cause poor, poor Papa; " and she
blushed as she used the word. " Even sup-
posing the letter a forgery; and the whole
affair a fabrication," said my client, " it can-
not fail to be almost as harmful to us as if it
were strictly true. Every one has enemies,
you know Mr. Bywood, especially men who
have been or are in business, as well as mar-
riageable girls," and here the timid eyes
were lowered. "Papa and I have enemies,
I presume-not that I know of any-but
there are some doubtless, and they, would
fasten upon this and hurt us just as much
with it, as if the stories were all true, as I
said before. Therefore; my great desire is
to try and conciliate this matter, Mr. By-
wood;   conciliate it. I assure you papa
would die if lie were to hear a word of such
a dreadful affair."
I thought if any old man were silly enough
to die just because a scoundrel was extorting
money from  his daughter, he ought to be
permitted to do it as expeditiously as possi
ble. But I did not say this to Miss Whar-
ton.
" Would you therefore, Mr. Bywood, so far
oblige me--I should take it as a personal fa-
vor " (and I knew she was willing to pay for
favors) "as to consent to see this person-
this Captain Belkamp, and find out if some
arrangement can't be made by which I can
obtain possession of that letter."
" He can fudge up another in twenty-four
hours' time," sad I.d
" No, not another like that," she said.
And then she confessed to me that, though
she was not very familiar with her mother's
handwriting - Mrs. Wharton having died
so many years ago-and though she had
only obtained a hurried glimpse at the let-
ter in this man's possession, she nevertheless
felt convinced that the document was an au-
thentic one, and was in thct what it was
claimed to be by Captain Belkamp.
a1I don't see what good there was in your
coming to a lawyer, Miss Wharton, if you're
going about it in such an unlawyer-like way.
Why did not you address yourself to any-any
male of your acquaintance."
' I have very few male friends, Mr. By-
wood, and none of those few would I take
into my confidence. Oh, can you not under-
stand that I wish to avoiti the scandal of it;
that I want to keep thme kn'owledge of the ex-
istence of such an affair away-altogether

I said before, if conciliatory measures can
be used- "
" Conciliatory devils," T cjaculated, now
myself becoming very unlawyer-like. "'' The
scoundrel ought to have his neck wrung."
"'Then I am to understand yom will not
see him? " said Miss Wharton, i'ising.
" Wait a minute. Whbenf are you going
to see him again ? "
"I have piomiused to meet himi in -
Park, Brooklyn, to-morrow at two o'clock."
Very well. 1 shall be there."
She seemed very grateful, and as she was
leaving I offered my hand. Not expecting
this, the movement had fallen abortive be-
fore she extended liers. I, seeing this, prof-
fered mine once more, only to miss hers
again ; and it was not until Rodgers opened
the door and announced    Mr. Indette
that I laughingly seized her hand. gave it a
hearty shake, and thus took leave tor that
day of my new client.
On the morrow I crossed the ferrv accord-
ing to her directions, and made the hest of
my way to the Park she had mentioned. I
was not familiar with the streets of Brooklyn.
and was therefore obliged to enquire a halt'
a dozen times before I fund the place of'
rendezvous. Once in the Park it was all
plain sailing: for seated on a stone heLnch,
not a dozen yards from the gate, was the beau-
tiful girl dressed as before in black, side by
side with a shabby individual, whoi I at
once recognized as her persecutor.
Thinking me merely a passer-by, I sup-
pose, Captain Belkaunp was doubt less somu("-
what astonished when I stepped up to M iss
Wharton and said-
My dear young lady, would you oblige
me by leaving me alone with this gentle-
man? "
She obeyed me without a word ; but wit II
a look of gratitude on her sweet features
which I shall never forget.
I have seen a good number of scoundrels
in my time, but of all the thorough ruffians I
ever laid eyes upon I award the palm to
Captain Louis Belkamp. Ile was a slouch-
ing, skulking brute, with bleary drunken
eyes, ill-kempt hair, and a straggling, irreg-
ular beard. A thorough hang-dog counte-
nance ; a face of itself that ought to have
sent him to the gallows.
" W ell," he said impudently' after T had
surveyed him at my case and doubtless ex-
pressed my disgust of hint by facial contor-
tion, " well, what do you want with me?
" I can  answer that  question in four
words," I replied bluntly ! "'I want that
letter."
"Oh, indeed,'" exclaimel Captain Bel-
kamp. " Oh, in'-deed ! she's beenI blowing,
has ,he?  W ell, she'll wish  she hadn't.
'That's all I can say. She'll wish she hadn't.
WhO ar'e yotu, that you dare speak to miii in
this tone, sir'. Aue you a lawyer or a police-
mni ? "

ArL
I  r


il~
If }
iIi
L  F
iii"t

34                        JOHN MORR
" No matter," I replied "I am a man. I
am not a timid girl, like Miss Wharton. - I
want that letter."
"And how, pray do you pro-pose to get
it? By money?" lie asked eagerly. '
No, I do not, you rascal," I exclaimed;
" You've had the last dollar you shall get
from Miss Wharton. Yes, and the last
cent."
"Oh, then you mean to get it by coaxing,"
said Captain Belkamp with fine irony.
"No, not by coaxing," I replied quietly.
" You don't mean to say you'd try to get
it by force; " he stuttered.
" Well," I replied very coolly, " that's as
may be. It seems to me as if I were a poor
feeble old man like you (given to drink too,,
which makes the strongest man powerless),
and had possession of a document which
I knew a muscular fellow like myself"-and
I twirled my stick rapidly-" a muscular
fidllow like myself wanted, I think I'd be
likely to keepout of his way o' dark nights."
"Why, you wouldn't knock me down,
would you ? You wouldn't dare do it. I'd
have the law of you."
"Ah, ha ! But how about our having the
law of you! eh ? What do you say to that?
Threats, you know-threats-extorting mon-
ey-aid so forth. You old scoundrel, that's
what I ought to do now; and I would if I
Lad my own way in the matter. I'm acting
clean against principle and precedent and
prudence in this affair. And you know it.
But I'm obligedto do it because I promised.
Only I say-keep out of my way o' dark
nights."
"Now look here," said the Captain, trying
the " conciliatory" himself, " what's the use
of being so ill-tempered about it?  Why not
give me something a little handsome-and
take the letter-and be done with it, for good
and all."
" Not a cent ! " I shouted emphatically.
"Not one. Understand that at once -
and-" repeating what I saw had been an
effective phrase-" keep out of my way o'
dark nights."
" Now, there's no use of you're being so
violent. Mr.-whatever your name may
be. No use under the sun. What earthly
good would it do for you to attack me of a
dark night, as you say? What good would
it do you?"
"I might obtain possession of the letter,"
I said.
" No you wouldn't. You wouldn't do any
such thing. You wouldn't, I tell you. I
dor&amp; carry it about me."
He saw immediately that he was giving me
a dee to its whereabouts by this avowal,
and it was evident he at once repented hav-
ing made it.
" I aught not to have told you that," con-
tinued the ruffianly old scoundrel. " But I
had to 'de it. I wanted to prevent your be-

IS'S MONEY.
having ugly toward me, which wouldn't do
the slightest good. I repeat-not the slight-
est."
"I'm not so easily humbugged as you
think, Mr.-Captain Belkamp. And I've
dealt with too many wily old rascals like
yourself not to know how \they will lie, and
swear to their lies, to throw an adversary off
the scent. I dare say you've got the letter
now in that breast-pocket," I said, moving
up toward him a little menacingly.
" I wish I may die if I have," he whined,
in a maudlin tone, at the same time empty-
ing, not - only that but every pocket- about
his clothing. " I haven't it at all. Look
yourself. Examine every scrap o' paper I've
got about me. Why, you must know it's
hardly likely that a poor old fellow like me
-who is as weak as a reed, and gets drunk
as you say-it's hardly likely I'd carry
around such a precious document as that.
Worth money to me, that letter is, and
came, of course, from my dear-well, she's
dead now, poor thing. Why, I was robbed
the other night; got a little how-come-you
so, and the next morning found that I was
robbed. Stolen every dollar from me, sir;
money too, that Miss-that "is, my dear
daughter, you know-had given me! Too
bad, wasn't it? No, no. Catch Loo Bel-
kamp being such a fool as to carry that let-
ter around."
"Well, if you haven't got it about your
person, you've got it~ secreted somewhere,"
I said.
" Certainly I have. Cer-tainly I have.
But where? That's the question, WHERE ? "
I rose to go, for I was getting so out of
temper that in a couple of minutes longer I
felt I should pounce on this blackguard and
give him a sound drubbing, which would
have done "no good," as he said-and
might have done a great deal of harm, in the
way of leading to an exposure, which my
client so seriously dreaded. As I was walk-
ing off, Captain Belkamp spoke again:
"If you want to know where the letter is "
(and involuntarily I stopped), "I'll tell you.
It's in Bank. In the. bank of a dear friend
of mine. He'd go through brandy and
water-I mean fire and water,-for me.
So would his Safe. It's in his Safe. Great
strong safe.  Five locks.  Secret keys.
Letter scaled up-my seal-tied with red
tape, Ha ! '"Ha!  Where is that bank?
Don't you wish you knew ? Where is that
Safe P Don't you wish you knew? Where
is that LETTER? Don't you wish you knew
-wish you knew-wish you knew ?"
He rubbed his villainous old hands to-
gether, chuckled in a sort of low laugh, and.
supporting himself on a heavy notched old
cane, shambled away.
I returned to town, and took no steps in
the matter for more than a week. I wanted
the Captain to believe that I' had dropped
the affair, seeing the utter hopelessness of

JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

ever obtaining possession of the letter for
which (for the sake of her mother's rep-
utation and for her own position in society)
I knew and he knew, Miss Wharton would
give every dollar she could muster.
At the end of ten days I again went to
Brooklyn.
It was a very easy matter to find out
where Captain Belkatmp lodged. The land-
lady was a talkative old woman, whom I
frightened into secresy by my legal bearing,
and the assurance that though she had un-
wittingly been so unfortunate as to harbor
an escaped state's prison convict in the per-
son of Captain Belkamp, I would gracious-
ly protect her from all harm if she would
carefully aid tme in my plans, and abstain
from giving her lodger the slightest hint that
the " dogs of law" were on his track. This
she promised; so frightened by my story'
that she was nearer dead than alive. But I
told her that her sanitary and social condition
would be better after I had ousted her lodg-
er-but this I said must be done cautiously.
Finding the man was out (but whether
he would return late or early the landlady
could not tell,) I ordered Mrs. Daff to give
me the pass key of her rooms, so that I might
take a minute survey of Captain Belkamp's
pretises.
She gave it, without the least hesitation.
Captain Belkamp's room was qnite at the
top of the house, with a sloping ceiling, and
two low windows looking down on the
shabby street. His bed, a fit lair for such a
dirty wretch as himself, had not been made
since its occupancy of the preceding night.
At the foot of the bed stood an oaken cup-
board or wardrobe, and this piece of furniture
I carefully examined, for, spite of Captain
Belkamp's story about the letter being de-
posited in the " bank" of a " dear friend"
who would go through " brandy and wa-
ter" for him, I somehow felt convinced that
the "bank," and the " safe" and the " let-
ter " itself were all within the four dirty white-
washed   walls which  now   encompassed
tile. If it were true that lie had deposited
it, then of course the figurative search for
the needle in the haystack were no more use-
less than mine. But I felt that the story was
a fabrication from beginning to end. Head
men at the banks do npt usually select
their friends from the low grade of society
in which move such persons as Belkatmp and
his -ilk. I felt that the letter was concealed
in this room.
I was proceeding in my search, peering
imto every nook, examining every corner,
when I was suddenly stopped by the loud
voice of Mrs. Daff on the stairs. In a mo-
meut I understood that Captain Belkamp had
returned unexpectedly, and that she was try-
ing to prevent his going up.
" What the devil are you trying to keep
nie out of my own room for? " I heard him
shout at the pool frightened creature.

SI'm  doing nothing of the kind," she
answered. " I say I was cleaning up there,
and went in there with my pass key, which
I left in the door. And that is all. And
was thinking, only thinking, that you night
think it just the least bit strange that I sliouhl
go in your room when you was out ; and if
you'd just step away for ten minutes Ill
have your room cleaned beautiful and all
tidy, so as you'd hardly know it--wil you:
All this in an extremely high key, evidently
intended to reach my ear, and spoken by my
ally below.
" No, I'll do nothing of the kind," he re-
plied angrily, "° and as for your pass key Ill
take it. Curse it, I won't have anybody pry -
ing into my matters, and going into my room
when I'm absent. Get out of miy way, I tell
you ; Im going up."
I heard her heavy footsteps descending
kitchen-ward, and his mounting leisurely to
the little cell in which I was regularly caged.
Here was a dilemma for a respectable anl
well-to-do lawyer!    ilere a disgraceful
situation ! Why had I conic here to this low
dirty place, to do the low dirty work of a po-
lice detective?
Why ?
Because I was desperately. madly, insane-
ly, outrageously in love with my client from
Brooklyn. I would have done anything for
her-anything to obtain her gratitude. I
wanted to get this letter for her myselt-my-
sef-without a finger's turn of aid froni aniy
detective or lawyer or private individual in
the world-or Brooklyn. In the meantime
lie was mounting-mounting-and now had
reached the last step of the staircase. Qiiek
as thought I sprang into the wardrobe a il
closed the doors, holding them  together in-
side. This was my only move. He might
not want to get open the wardrobe; if lie
(lid-why I must just make the best of it.
Knock him down, perhaps, and char away.
But I (lid not want anything of this
kind. I wanted to keep quiet. As yet I
had not discovered anything to give ie t'he
slightest trace of the letter, and had the old
wretch once become aware that his private
quarters were likely to be entered at any
moment by his enemy, lie would have rc-
moved the precious paper of course at once.
As I crouched in the cupboard, my limbs
stiflleting with the posture, and i clist
heavimg with short gasps from the confined
and imptire state of the atmosphere, I felt
then on what a wild-goose chase I had started.
I looked like the culprit-a regular jack-ini-
the-box, lie like the free man, siiokmig his
short pipe, and walking deliberately u p and
down the narrow room. One great hem
buoyed me up-might lie not now go to thm
letter, thus showing me the hiding place
For I cotild disteintly see all his miiovetmints
from ao crack in the wood of the cupboard.
I was beginnng to get tired of tis game
of hiide-and-sck. 'rhe C'aptaoin hadu conie


36

JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

I pf
Oil)1
pilt
I "

back to his room, evidently for the purpose
of reposing himself merely ; for he smoked
one pipe after another, lolled on the bed, got
up again, loafed up and down the floor,
gazed stupidly out of the window, whistled a
nautical air, and then finally began making a
fresh toilette, prior, perhaps, to going out
again. His ablutions were of the simplest
character, consisting of a slight "dab" with a
wet towel on his forehead and cheeks, and a
half second's immersion of his finger tips in
a basin with a limited supply of water.
Then the Captain took off his shirt, and fling-
img it on the top of a very diminutive pile of
soiled linen, proceeded to unlock his trunk in
search of a clean garment. The trunk, of
course-the trunk ! The letter must be in
there ! I watched him eagerly as he laid out
t he trifles it contained, and then after select-
ing the second shirt, perhaps because it was
it better condition than the first, he laid them
back again one by one. He had emptied it,
I could see, to the very bottom, and there
was not the slightest vestige of writing or-
papers !
This was a disappointment. With mute
rage I saw the old fellow complete his toi-
lette, leaving off the ragged-bottomed trow-
sits which lie had worn when lie entered,
and putting on a somewhat better pair, which
hung over the chair back, and whose pockets
I had previously searched; he slipped on the
same coat, gave a coquettish brush to his
hair, and then devoted his attention and the
efforts of a ragged silk handkerchief to the
smoothing of his hat. I conjectured at once
-and my surmise I ultimately proved to be
true-that he was getting himself up in this
seductive style for the purpose of waylaying
Miss Wharton. I could have killed him
where he stood. I am not sanguinary as a
general thing, but I could have murdered
that man in cold blood. For was he not
persecuting, tormenting; fiendishly annoying
my love, my beauty, my darling, my client
from Brooklyn?
At length he went. I could hear him lock-
mng the door outside and removing the key-
the pass key, which he doubtless pocketed
according to his threat. Thump, bump went
his feet and his cane, step by step, down the
tackling stair-case. Thump, bump,-faint-
et, fainter, fainter. I ran to the window and
saw him in the street.
And for myself! Here was I, a highly re-
spectable person, the counsel for the great
Mr Indette of the Daily Comet, besides be-
itg the attorney in numberless prominent
suits for numberless prominent persons, lock-
ed up in a dirty garret by a half-tipsy old
sailor!
I examined the lock of the door. I could
not possibly force it. It was too strong for
that. But I immediately remembered tmy
ally below stairs, Mrs. Daff, whmom I did not
doubt would soon come to my rescue. I did
not want hser yet. No, not yet, by any

means. I wanted to be alone and undisturb-
ed, so that I might hunt for the letter.
I began by ripping up the old carpet con-
fined here and there by small-headed tacks,
and thrusting my hand under as far as it would
go. No letter. This work was tiresome in
the extreme, for I was without tools of any
kind except my small pocket-knife. With
this I ripped open the mattress, and probed
there. With no suceesss. Pillows likewise
were obliged to undergo the same Vendal treat-
ment. And all for nought-all for nought !
Again I turned to the trunk. The lock of
this gave way with one strong pull; the rot-
ten wood ejecting the poor old lock, and look-
ing as 'if greatly relieved by the operation.
I need not have given my time to this, for I
had seen before that there were no papers in
it. But I wished again to assure myself, and
I did-that there was nothing in it. About
the chairs there was not the possibility of
concealing even the smallest article ;'the
seats were of cane-not stuffing.
The table which also served as wash-stand,
contained in its little drawer (which came out
half-way and then stuck there, refusing to go
either back or forward) a rusty razor and a
leather strap. Even the Raven would have
been obliged to confess that there -was "noth-
ing more, only these-and nothing more."
Bynmerely raising myself and lifting my arm
I could pass my hand along the ceiling. In
some places the plaster was broken, and it
struck me that as the letter was a small ob-
ject it would be easy enough to insert it in
any one of these little woolly irterstices,
standing greatly in need of a coat of white-
wash. " A coat of whitewash !" I repeated.
to myself in thought-" they need a coat and
a pair of trowsers of whitewash!" that was
my joke, and a very good one I thought it.
A coat and a pair of trousers of -
A coat and a pair of trowsers--and a pair
of trowsers-a pair of trousers!
By Jingo!   Why didn't I think of them
before ? That was not the pair I searched
before he came in ! Certainly not.  That
was the pair he took off.
I seized them and turned both pockets in-
side out. Not a thing: not a vestige of any
object ! Still, not discouraged, I passed my
hand ovbr the seams, coolly ripping them
open in such places as they appeared thicker
than need  be, carefully investigating the
filthy mud-crusted  hems at the' bottom.
Nothing-nothing. I flung them   from mite
in disgust and despair.
As they lay with their two black bag-like
portions inaptlyy called "legs ") sprawled
apart on the bed before me, I saw that up to
this moment I had overlooked something im-
portant. There was a third pocket which I
had not examined. It was a watch or fob-
pocket, and close to the waist-hand peering
quietly out, as otte might say, was the tip of
a folded paper.
My heart actually stopped beating; or so

JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.                                :7
it seemed to me, for I was fully satisfied that ges I had committed was greatly lessened by
at last I had succeeded in finding the much- the present of a five dollar bill.
desired object. Stealing noiselessly toward  Making my way at once to the Park, I
it, as if it had both the sense of hearing and  saw, as I expeetcd to see, my darling girl
the power of getting away when alarmed, I seated on the stone )enech with her eves red
advanced to the bed, pulled out the paper, with weeping, and the old scoundrel by her
opened it with trembling hands, and found it side, laying down the law to her with vehe-
-blank !                                 mont wavings of the knotty stiik. le smiled
I can never describe my rage and disap- affably as I approached,, and bowed with
pointment. I tore the paper in half, flung it mock suavity.
on the floor, trod on it, crushed it beneath  " Alh, in-deed !" he exclaimed.  1)o I
my heel, and paced madly up and down the have the pleasure of seeing you once again
floor. Oh ! to be baffled in this manner! I, Believe me, sir, I am truly yours ! My dear
such a highly respectable person, and work- young lady-or rather, my dear-daughter,'
ing in such a good cause ! ie, such a low- (and the girl's lip trembled as he spoke),
lived old rascal, worrying the heart out of " this is your friend-this is your very good
my little darling-my .pet -my   beautiful friend,'Mr.-ah-what was it now, Mr. (aim-
-Brooklyn client ! mon and Spinach-Mr. G4ammnon and Spinacl
I stopped, and picked up the torn frag- -Mr. Threat-Mr. Bluster-Mr. All-talk-
ntents before me, and examined them once and-no-cider-Mir. Bombastes-Furioso !"
more. This was not the letter--oh no-no     " Yes." I replied, with as much coolness
such luck as that. But in one corner of the as I could command, for 1 felt an irresistible
paper, written in a miserably cramped hand, desire to knock him down every time I ap-
was a memorandum, which I had overlooked. preached this hoary-headed old villain. "Yes,
It was this:-                             Miss Wharton's true and devoted friend, who
9 (Counting all).                      has at last sttecee(led in obtaining-the letter!"
5 (Good).                                 I spread it out before them both as I spoke,
9 Counting all, 5 good ! What on earth and 'pon my word of honor as a gentlemani
was the meaning of that?  9! 5! To what ttnd an Anmerican attorney, I never saw a
did these figures refer ?                more magnificent coup de  h7'a/re !  'h'le
I felt convinced they had some bearing on girl actually flew to my side like a bird freed
the letter. Some hint-sonte reminder of Ilfrom its wiry prison ; and the timan, rising to
the spot in which it lay hidden. 9 ! 5 ! I kept Ihis feet, tittered a loud groan as he assured
repeating tthe words, and gazing about the i himself it was really the authentic doetment
room. I tried to count the tacks in the which I had    obtained possession of, al
dragged-tip carpet, the feathers, emptying then fell with his whole lengt b on the
- out of the ripped pillow-cases, the straws stone bench, completely inert and power-
from the mattress ticking-               less                   o
I raised my eyes, and a new light burst  ''Oh (hear, dear, darling Mr. Bywood,"
upon me. Across the lower end of the room, said ny girl, laughing and crying together-
there was nailed a rack for hanging clothing, " you are the loveliest, nearest, sweetest,
originally composed of twelve large wooden darlingest lawyer I over knew. how (an I
pegs. On the eleventh peg there hung an ever repay you ? "
old hat, but all the others were empty.    I told her how she could some imoniths
Four of the pegs were gone, having doubt- afterwards-not then.
less been pulled down, by an overweight of '" You're a thief! " said Captain hBelkamtsp,
hanging garments ; and thuns the fifth good rising and fixing his bleary eyes upon my
one was the ninth peg, counting all!     face-'' a thief and a-a-burglar, to break
With a sudden wrench, I dragged it away, into ttty room and steal that letter. Wont
and there, in the centre of the wooden peg, you pay mse for it ?"
which had of course been hollowed out, on   " Not a cent, you brute," I exclaimed,
purpose to receive it, was hid the letter!  '' not a cent. Pay, indeed ! Well, that is a
Yes, there it was ! An old, thin, flimsy good joke, 'pon my word."
document, so weather-stained, and pocket-   " Well, sotmethitig for charity, then."
worn, that it barely held together. It read  Miss Wharton's pocket book was out in a
word for word, like the copv I had seen and moment, but I-put my hand on her and pre-
was signed like the copy,'" Carry!"  The vented her opening it.
underscorings too were there, but it struck   Oh, how cruel you are," he umoaned,
me that they looked (lone with fresher ink beerily " how cruel. But com now. I'll
than the rest of the letter. I was not cer- tell you what I'll (1o if you'll-if you'll give
tain of this, and indeed it didn't much mat- me five dollars. I'll tell you souetling
ter, as I had got the letter.             you'd give fifty dollars to know."
And now, to get out. A few kicks at the 1 would not give five dollars for the fifty
door brought Mrs. D~aff with the key of dollars worth of information.
another room, which opened this one 'very     Well, three ?"
easily. 11er htorrer at the sight or thse rava- '' I would not give three."


JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

It'
yI
at
}   s
Li
I"

"Two and a half? "
No answer.
One?"
Before I could stop her, Carry had slipped
a dollar bill in his hand.
I observed that Captain Belkamp got safe-
lv out of kicking distance before he spoke.
"Well, then listen. This young lady was
just three years old before I ever saw her
mother! "
With a little chirp of joy Carry pressed
(lose against me and looked gratefully up
into my eyes as if she fully considered that the
fact of her being the legitimate offspring of
her lawfully wedded parents was due entirely
to my single and unaided efforts. I received
her tribute of thanks without disclaimer.
"And now, if you promise you won't dis-
turb me, but just let ie go my way and you
yours, I'll tell you something else about it."
I would promise nothing. I felt guilty to
the last degree in allowing this fellow to go
scot free, probably to again prey upon some
innocent party. But Carry wanted secresy ;
what could I do?
I did not answer; but I knew that Miss
Wharton was nodding her head, and wink-
ing, and encouraging him to go on, as who
should say, " Tell what you like: I'll be re-
sponsible for him; " meaning me.
" That letter was not written by your moth-
er at all."
"What!" we both exclaimed.
" No. Don't be angry. It was written
by a cousin of hers, whose handwriting was
very similar.  She was Unmarried, and we
were engaged, but the whole thin fell
through after I went away. She used V
fake little Miss there out fbr a walk some-
times, and one day when I met them I gave
little Carry a doll. I did indeed, you un.
grateful girl! What is the paltry one hun-
dred dollars I've had from you, compared to
that ? Dolls were very expensive sixteen or
seventeen years ago. Wont you open your
heart now, and-"
I could stand it no longer. I made a
sudden thrust at him ; but he, doubtless di-
vining my purpose with an alacrity of which
I did not deem him capable, flew out of the
Park, cleared the corner, and was soon out
of sight.
We never saw him again.    I think he
must have left the country, for Mrs. Daff, to
whom he owed a fortnight's lodging, institu-
ted a searching inquiry for her missing lodg-
er.  It was thoroughly unsuccessful, how-
ever.
Things went famously for me after that-
things in the way of business. I pulled the
Comet, tail and all, through lots of dificulties,
amd made such good arrangements with the
creditors that Mr. Indette generously gave
ime twice the fee I should have asked;- and
Idntmind asking a pretty big one, either.,
lhen caine th e Willis will case, and so .I
very soon paid for the expensive house in

VI.
SLIGHTLY SENSATIONAL.
I'm glad of that," said John; " the sen-
sational is the only care ! "
" How learned you are becoming, John ! "
I exclaimed.
"Ain't I though? That's, Shakspeare !
Only more so. Ah, Nelly ! you havent't dis-
covered half my talents yet ! "
"Begin Nelly," said Aunt Julia.
major Jim.
My name is Peter Barclay, and I am senior
partner in the house of Barclay &amp; Co., dry
goods dealers, No. 10    street New Or-
leans. I am not of a nervous temperament,
nor am I in any way timid or cowardly. I
was forty-five years of age last June ; but
the events of which I am going to speak hap-
pened nearly twenty years ago.
At that time I was head book-keeper in
the house of which I am now the principal,
having bought of my former employers with
money which was willed to me by an uncle

JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

the up-town street. Of course my darling
married ine-bless her. She said she fell 'n
love with me the first day she ever saw m,
at the time when we had all that missing-fire
sort of business in our first shaking of
hands; but, dear me ! I was in love with her
at least twenty minutes before that !
I think I've told you all. Oh, by George!
yes; there is just one thing. No, on second
thoughts, I'd rather not mention that. It
seems so stupid. Besides, Carry would be
vexed, if she knew I'd told it.
You wont mention it, eh?  Honor bright
now! Make me look such a guy, you see
-an old fellow like me, as I am now at forty-
five, with a red face and a bald spot on the
top of my head, as big as the palm of your
hand. Ha ! ha!    By George ! yes-that's
it; you've hit it.
She is-she is jealous!
Stupid of her, isn't it? Such a pretty
creature as she is, and such a fat old cur-
nutdgion as I am! But she doesn't see my
defects. Oh .dear, no. She kisses me so
sweetly every day before I go to the office,
and calls me all those mythological fel-
lows, Beau Brunmmel, you know, and D'Orsay
and Apollo and Adonis and the rest. Ahi,
come now, don't laugh. That's really not
kind of you; and-I say, one word before you
go ! As you value my friendship don't say
anything of this to Carry, for I've made
her two promises--one is not to reveal her
weakness, and the other is to humor that
weakness by never again serving a lady-
client from Brooklyn.

of mine, who died in Australia. some eleven cc
or twelve years ago. I was a poor lad when 11
I first went to them; but I think my employ- In
ers respected me, and that they had coni- i
dence in my honesty the story wvdl show. In
It happened at that time that our firm had th
business relations in New York with a party te
who owed them what is widely knwn in the
commercial world as a " bad debt," and this ti
bad debt, amounted to several thousands of i
dollars. They had tried hard to collect it-
tried in every way-and failed signally. They w
had tried lawyers and doctors, and threats
and persuasions, and vows of vengeance and y
promises to " knock off" a good round sum, tl
but to'all their manouvres the bad debtors
in New York smiled sweetly at the mad n
creditors in New Orleans, and continued as
much in debt as before.                 fi
This being the state of the case, it was at t
last proposed to send me on to the Metrop-
olis, to -ee if the actual presence of an au-
thorized deputy, coming fresh from the spot, t
would not have the desired effect. I had n
full power to receipt for the firm, and the t
only fear was that I should get nothingtof
receipt for from the recalcitrant Newv York-
ers. I took passage on one of the fine
"packet-boats " plying between New Or- t
leans and Cincinnati, and, after rather a te-
dious trip of five days on the river, found -c
myself at the picturesque landing of the c
Queen City of the West. We had arrived
too late for the midnight traim for the East,s
and there was nothing for Inc to do but to
,wait until the next morning, at eight o'clock,
when the express train went out. Many ofI
my fellow-passengers slept that night on the
boat; but I was tired of the narrow berth in
which I had lain and tossed for five nights,1
and, late as it was, I got a strapping negro
to shoulder, my trunk and carry it into a
public-house on the wharf.
This house was called the " River Queen
Hotel," and was a favorite with those men
who earned a livelihood on the river. It
borO a reputable name, and the charges were
moderate. Both of these facts made it a de-
sirable place of resort. I had   stopped
there once or twice before, and the landlord
(an ex-clerk on one of the steamboats) rec-
ognized me as I entered.
" How de do, sir! How; de do ! coming
to spend a few (lays in Cmenciratti?"
Ie rubbed his hands together cheerfully
as he spoke, but, little as I knew the man, it
struck me that beneath his apparent good
spit its there lay some unspoken trouble
which he was trying his best to conceal.
No," I answered; " I am going East
to-morrow by the first train ; but I wanted a
good night's rest in a bed before I started:
so I came here."
aSuttaily, sir suttainly," he returned, still
arth potr did so, and thie landlord ac--

ompanied meto the room assigned me, and
usied himself with some trifling details for
y comfortable occupancy of it during lat,
ght. Everybody spoke of' hin as a good-
earted, well-meaning man, and, knowing
is, I asked him blankly what was the mat-
r with hin to-might.
"Did you observe that -there was some-
iing the matter with me when you canme
S?" he asked, suspiciously.
" Yes, I did," I said : ' you started
lien I opened the door."
" Did I? Well, I guess I'd better tell
ou the whole of the story, or you might
think there was something wrong i ne.
I might. That's true enough."  W hat
nade you start when I opened the door .
" Because," he answered, slowly, 11the
ist glimpse I got of you I thought you was
he Coroner!"
T" Ie Coroner ! "
" Yes, the Corioner. We've sent for bilim,
hough I don't believe he'll conic before
morning. There's been a dreadful accident
o-night. One of iiy custoners-a real good
e'ller-bias been dlrown~ed.
His eyes filled with tears as lie spoke.
" Drowned !  I exclaimed.    how did
hat happen ?.
I don't know a thing about it. lIe was
down stairs, di ikiiig at the bar, about eight
o'clock this  ienmg, and I mixed hin a
mint-julep  yself just before lie went out,
saying he was going for a walk on the wharf.
Seems to me it couldn't have been more than
a couple of hours after that when two mnci
brought in his dead body. He had been
drowned."
" Do you think it was an accident, or foul
play? " I asked.
" I think it must have been an accident.
Perhaps the liquor he'd taken made him kind
o' unsartin where lie was going. 1 dont
think he had any enemies. lie was as good-
hearted a chap as ever lived. Poor Major
,Jin !"
" Vhat was his name'?
Major Jin. '1hat's all I know. That's
what everybody called him."
" What was his business ? " I asked.
"1 Well, I've always thought lie was a
sporting-man. Still, I'm not sure."
A " sporting-iman " was a sort of co niph-
mentary synonym fior a ", gambler."  I e-
lieve the term is obsolete now,
" I only know," he 'continued, feliingly,
that he was as free with his money as if' he'd
been a prince. Poor fellow !How liam -
some ihe looks, laying down there in the back
parlor, with his new brown overcoat lined
with gray silk, and his big eluister -iiamointl
imn stuck in his shiut boson!  And tho
landlord passed the back of his hand across
iDd you try to restore him when you first
ouYes; we tried everything.. We had

,f
y
j
;
r ;t
',
n   f r
;
i F
i .
'  's
1
t
x
!
yrF   , f +
F

39


40               JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

two doctors in, but it was too late. Poor
fellow ! I suppose the Coroner will be here
the first thing in the morning."
"Don't forget to have me waked at half
past six."
No fear. Good-night, sir."
"Good-night."
Ile left me.
I confess I did not think much more about
the drowned man after the door closed on
the landlord., I am not at all a heartless
person, but Major Jim was a stranger to
me ; I had never seen him ; never should do
so; I was tired and sleepy, and had only a
few hours for repose before me; so, hastily
doffing my clothing, -I tumbled into bed,
and was soon fast asleep.
How long I slept I cannot tell, but my
slumber was an uneasy one. I dreamed that
I had collected the bad debt in New York,
and was returning home with the money,
when Iwas set upon by thieves, overpowered,
and robbed of every cent. I awoke sud-
denly, and, sitting up in bed, I looked around
the room for the robbers.
It had been a dream, and thdre were no
robbers whatever. It was not yet daylight,
and the fire was still burning brightly enough
to make all the objects about the room as
visible as though it were morning. I was
just composing -myself to slumber again
when the door, which I had locked and bolt-
ed inside, opened noiselessly, and gave
ingress to a man,-a man in a brown over-
coat lined with gray silk, and with a great
cluster diamond pin stuck in his shirt !
He walked over to the fire and began to
dry his clothes which were dripping wet!
I can't say I felt afraid. I knew at once,
or thought I knew, who it was, by the land-
lord's description.  It immediately struck
me there had been some mistake about his
death.
"Say, stranger !" I sang out, "what are
you doing in my room?"
"4Drying my clothes !" he answered, with-
out turning around.
Who are youJ"
"Major Jim!"
" Oh, I'm so glad!" I exclaimed. "The
landlord will be delighted. Then you were
not drowned after all!"
"Yes, I was!" he said, still without turn-
ing.
" Yes, but I mean not dead.      Not
(drowned-dead !"
" I am dead! " he said.
" Oh, nonsense !"
"If you doubt it, look at me!"
He turned his face to me now, and to my
dying day, I shall never forget the sight !
The eyes were open, and were distended,
glassy and staring. The jaw had dropped,
and was fied in that position. Across the
.forehead there was a deep cut, from which
thick, black blood was sluggishly issuing. and

the soft brown locks were covered with green
slime from the river!
" Do Iou doubt it now ?" he asked, almost
in triunaph.
N-o," I answered, horror-stricken,
He approached the bed, and placed him-
self in an easy posture across its foot, while
I sat bolt upright at its head, with every drop
of blood in my heart frozen into ice.
"I suppose I'm not a very pleasant coin-
panion just now," he continued, " though
when-when I was alive, what man on the
river was as good company as Major Jim?
If I was kind o' lucky at 'seven-up ' or at
' euchre,' nobody ever seemed to feel hard
agin me. Ahi! well, that's all over now !"
And he heaved a sigh which .so greatly
awakened my pity that it almost dispelled
my fear.
Still I did not speak.
"You may be surprised at my coming in
on you in this way," resumed the ghastly
" sporting-nian "-Alas! the " sport " was
sorry enough now !-" You may be surprised
at my coming in, and waking you up when
you was sleeping quietly, and not thinking
of the poor chap-me, you know-who, at
this minute is laid out down stairs in the
back parlor, with two men watching him!"
"Are you a ghost," I murmured, faintly,
" or a madman ? "
"Idon't feel myself justified in answering
that question ; so, with  your permission,
we'll lay it on the table as they do in Con-
gress, you know. All I've got to say to you
is this: I've come here to do you a favor, and
if you want to know how, listen! If you
don't, say the word, and P11 be free to go."
Although I would have given a kingdom
if I had had it to get rid of this nocturnal
visitor, I nevertheless mastered my fears, and
begged him toremain.
" It appears, I'm obliged to tell the secret
to the first man that sleeps in this room. If
he-refuses to avail himself of niy knowledge,
then I've got to tell the next man that sleeps
here, and so on until some one takes advan-
tage of it. It's about money, and for that
reason Pd rather Korley should know it, for
Korley is about as good as they make 'cin
now-a-days.".
Korley was the landlord.
"If Korley had slept here to-night, I could
have told him; but, poor fellow, lie's down
stairs watching my body, while you, an outsid-
er-a person I don't care a red for -have the
awful streak of luck of hearing the secret.
" I have not heard it yet," I said,
" No," he answered; " but here it is.
Do you see that hearthstone ? "
"Yes," I answered. "It is cracked."
"It is not only cracked but broken. Bro-
ken clear through. With any strong article for
a wedge. the biggest blade of a knife for in-
stance, you could lift half of it up as easy as
rollin' oflf a log. The right half of it-what do

you think you'll find under the right half of
it ? Come, now, guess ! Guess wha t a luck
' fell ' like myself-a high old sport, who's
been, travelling up and lown between here
and Orleans for the last ten years-guess1
what he'd have to hide under a hearthstone
Guess ! "                     .       '
"Money?"
"Ha, ha ! " he shouted ; and his laugh
was so loud   that it seemed  impossible
that those below should not hear it, and
come rushing up.   " How funny it is that
you  should  have  guessed  it right the
very first pop ! Yes, sir ! it is money-mon-
ey that I have earned by the sweat of my
brow and the manipulation of pasteboard,
during the last ten years. All in gold, too !
all sorts-beautiful Spanish doubloons, and
American eagles, and French lonoys, and En-
glish sovs ! Splendid ! I didn't want to
put them in no bank. No indeed. There
ain't one of them that won't break before the
year's out.  No, sir! none of vour rotten
shinplasters for me ! All gold ! Now don't
you consider yourself a most all-fired lucky
coon, sir."
" Why ?" I asked.
" Because you are the first man who sleeps
in this room-and therefore all that money is
yours !"
I confess to a sort of warming up in the
region of the heart and pocket at this an-
nouncement. What I, poor Pete Barclay, with
fifteen dollars a week salary, the possessor of
the large winnings of ten years, belonging to a
successful " sport!" It took away my breath.
" Get up and look at it," said Major Jim.
I drew on some of my clothing, got out of
lied, lighted a candle, and walked over to
the fireplace. There was the stdne just as
be had said, cracked through. The fissure
was wide enough for me to insert my finger.
I probed about curiously. There was earth
beneath. I wondered at that, as this was
not a room on the ground floor ; but then I
remembered that the wharf ended in a steep
hill, and that all the houses on what we -of'
New Orleans call the levee, were backed
by a bank. This explained the earthwork.
 You see,' said Major Jim, taking the
candle from my hand and spilling the sperm
about, " I found myself in possession of a
lot of gold, and I didn't want-to bank it. I
didn't think it would be safe in bank. This
room was mine. Nobody else ever occu-
pied it. Korley wouldn't have let it to you
to-night if I hadn't been dead." (And lie
looked up at ine with his stony eyes steadily,
and with perfect composure). "'So I bought
an earthern crock, and I put my gold in it,
and I buried it under this hearthstone. Every
' pull' I made on the river, I'd come up here,
lift up the stone, and cuddle away my new
beauties with the iest until it is now almost
chock-full. Just think of' it! Chock full of
gold. And all yours ! Ain't you a [ucky
coonP"

I felt that I was lucky. My horror of
this dreadful dead Major ,Iim had vanished,
and the innate cupidity which burns in every
man's breast had become thoroughly i'arouseil
to the extinction of every other feeliin.
" How shall I get the stone up ? " Iasked,
breathlessly.
IInmvenm't you got a pocket-knife ? " he
responded, almost as excited as myself.
I've got a pen-knife."
Perhaps that wil do; if the blades are
strong, I'mn sure it-will."
I put my hand in my pocket and drew out
the knife.
" Open several of the blades together, for
strength," he said.
I opened all the blades which hinged tho
same way, and, inserting them  under the
stone as a wedge, gave it as powerful a
lift" as I could.
The blades snapped off like hits of thread
leaving the handle in my hand, Quick as
thought I tried the other side, only to repeat
the experience. Disgusted, I flung t hel knil'
from me and began wildly clutching at tie
stone with my fingers, lacerating them paini-
fully in the effort to lift the stone.
" I always used a great s strong screw-
(Iriver, which answered the purpose splen-
dilly. I can't think where I put it. Y ou
see when so severe an accident happens to :
man as what's happened to me to-night -
gettinmg drowned you know,and thmnp.
against the boulders at the wharf until I was
stone dead-it's apt to make one forgetful
IIeedless of his remarks, bent on obtain-
ing the treasure, I shrieked to hi into help
inc move the stone ; aid, as he .stooped to
do So, there came a thundering rapping at
the door.
Major .Jim laid his lank finger on his
bloodless lip, and whispered hoarsely :
" Go see who's there ! "
I walked to the door, and opened it sufli-
ciently to see that it was the house porter,
cone to wake me according to my orders.
'' It's past halfpast six, sir; in fiart, nearly
seven. I overslept myself this morning g~.
Better hurry up,, sir, if you want to c:mlsh
this traiii.  I'll conic in and take your
trunk."
" Wait, wait !" I shouted. "I'll let you
in in a moment. Don't attempt to come
in."
And I pushed the door to, and holteil it
again.
I rushed to the fire-place, to speak to
Ma;or Jim.
Ile was gone.
Not a trace of the drowned " sport," to
be sen
At that moment the sun, which had barely
risen yet out of the murky fogs of hi river,
hit ip the heiavens suddeidy, andi showed moo
thme reality of time commnonplace sand thn ahm-
suidity of the siipernaturah ! Hal I hieei
dreaming ? There were thme spots of sperm

JOAN MORRIS' MONEY.              41


Ik
II4
Ji
tr tr
4? f
rif
I lE'
41r
E4{N

JOHN MORRIS' MONEY.

spilled about on the cracked hearth-stone,  "AI saw his ghost, I tell you, and from
the broken pen-knife, myself half-dressed, what he said to me, I think you'd better sleep
the vivid " truth-seemingness" in my memo- in that room to-night."
ry of the features of a man whom I had never " Me ! In a room. where a ghost comes-
seen in life-what did it mean ?         the ghost of poor Major Jim ? No sir-ee !
"You'll be left, sir, if you don't hurry Not much, I won't. I wouldn't do it for-
up," said the porter, outside.          for a pot of gold!"
My senses now returned to me. I walked  Without waiting to say good-by, I ran out
to the door, threw it open, and hurriedly of the house, and never stopped till I found
began making my preparation for departure. myself seated in the cars going East.
Poor Major Jim!" said the porter, as he To my great surpt-ise gnd gratification, I
shouldered my trunk, many's the dollar bill collected the money in I New York, much
he's slipped into my hand for carrying his more easily and more expeditiously than I
trunk out, and in this room."           had expected. The bad debtors happened
So this was his room. How did I know it to be " flush" through payment of some of
was his room before the porter spoke? Kor- their own outstanding accounts, and they
I        -y had said nothing about it.  treated me with that politeness and liberality
I gave tl eman some money, and, taking which characterizes the New York mer-
my travelling-bag and umbrella in my hand, chant.  I got a draft from  them  for the
walked down stairs. In the bar-room, I met amount due us, on a 'well-known banking-
the landlord,                           house in the Crescent City, and, my business
t norley," said I, " did you sit up with being' now terminated, I turned my steps
the body of the drowned man last night ?"  homeward.
Yes, I did," be answered, with a look  I should have stopped at Cincinnati, even if
of surprise. " How did you know that ?"  I was not obliged to do so, as I was. My mind
Without answering his question, I asked was now fully made up on one point-if no one
anotheir.else had occupied the room in the ten days I
"aid the body--move-last night-at any had been away I was determined to profit
tite?"                                  by my former experience, and dislodge the
Move I" he echoed. "Why, you're broken hearthstone, in search of the treasure.
crazy!"ve .Korley was out when I arrived; but I
e  yLet me see the body," I whispered.  asked immediately to be shown to room No.
This would bQ confirmation. Here was a 12. Entering the room, my first thought
man I had never seen. I might have dream- was of the hearthstone. I walked over to it.
ed about him, but it was scarcely likely a  What a metamorphosis was here!. In
vision seen in a dream would be correct.  place of the broken stone, there now lay a
Korley opened the door of the back parlor new slab, without flaw or crack ! Strongly
and-there was the very man!             cemented, too, on every side! While I was
The brow overcoat lined with gray silk, surveying it with amazement, Korley en-
the great cluster-diamond pin stuck in the tered.
bosom of the beruffled shirt, the neat pa- " What's the matter?" asked he, seeing
tent leather boots, the cut across the fore- my look of disgust.
head, the dank weeds, green and slimy,    " Look here, Morley," said I, " what did
clinging to the brown, soft hair; the eves, you have a new hearthstone put here for?"
closed now, but staring stonily nevertheless  " Why, the most curious affair happened
through their lowered lids straight into the I two nights-after you left, Mr. Barclay  Let
depths of my awe-stricken heart!  I could me see, it's nearly two weeks ago now, isn't
not look. I fled from the room.         it ?"
What had I best do now? That the mon- i"Yes," said I, impatiently; " what was
er was there-up-stairs, in the very place he the affair-what happened? "
had described, I could not doubt. Should I " Why, two nights after you left, I put a
go back and get it secretly, or should I tell traveller to sleep in here, and the next morn-
the affair to Korley, as Major Jim had said ing he walked down stairs, paid his bill, got
he wished the landlord to have the money ?  off, and when the chambermaid came in here
"Korley," said I, while I was paying my to do the room, what do you think she
bill, " that was Major Jim's room you put found?"
tme to sleep in last night! "             " What, what?"
" I know it was. It was the only room   " That that broken   hearthstone  had
vacant in the house."                   been pulled up, and broken again by who-
Well," I said, slowly, " something very ever did it, and underneath, imbedded in
curious happened to me while there."    the earthwork, there was a great earthen-
"How curious ?" he asked.             ware crock-"
"    iWhat would you say if I were to tell  "Filled with gold?"
you Id seen Major Jim's ghost?"           " It might have been at first. It was
"0O Lordie !" ejaculated the susceptible empty when we discovered it. But near the
Korley, his teeth ehatterinig already.  door there, we found two pieces of mon-

I

JOHN MORRIS'S MONt Y.

ey-an American ten-dollar eagle and a
Spanish doubloon."
I groaned aloud and dropped into a chair.
Why had I not stayed? Why had I been
such an idiot? I could have killed myself.
Should I tell Korley? No ; he, too, had let
the treasure slip through his fingers. It was
more merciful to let him remain in igino-
rance.
"So, as the stone was too badly broken to
be put back, I had a new one laid in."
I could not speak to him.
That afternoon, I went on board the Au-
tocrat, bound for New Orleans. Korley was
with tme to the last.
" Did I tell you the Coroner came that
morning, almost immediately after you left,
and gave a verdict of "accidental drowning."
Then we buried him. Poor fellow! We had
to sell that diamond pin he wore, to pay his
funeral expenses. He had no money, not a
cent, and yet people used to say he cheated
at eards-dern 'mi all !
XVWe're ofi!"
A simultaneous shout from myriads of
voices-young and old folks, rich and poor
folks, white and colored folks,-a creaking of
machinery, a prolonged whistle from a steam-
boiler's pipe, and the huge boat moves slow-
ly away from the shore !
Korley springs off on to the wharf, waving
his handkerchief in token of adieu, and the
last I see of him he is standing in'the door-
way of the "River Queen Hotel."
I can give no elucidation of the events I
have related. They happened just as I have
told them. If it was a dream it was a very
vivid one; and if it was a vision, wasn't I
an idiot, a donkey, not-to take advantage of
it?
I have thought over it now pretty continu-
ously for twenty years. If any of my read-
ers feel like devoting tle same length of time
to it they have my full consent to do so.
Twenty years is a long time, isn't it? I am
foity-five years old now. In many respects I
thik I am a better man than I was then;
liit, howsoever that may be, in regard to th
afihir of Major Jim, I'll be hanged if I ai
in the least degree a wiser one !
VII.
SOMEWHAT       RELATIONAL.
In other words, My Cousin Frank," said
I. " A relation in two senses of the word."
" ow so? '" asked John.
Why if he is-' my cousin Frank,' he is a
relation of mine; and as it is a story, that is
a relation of mimne also. Don't you see ?"
"I that where the 1augh comes in ? "
'~tis-"

43

John got up gravely, shook hands with me
with tears in his eyes, and mournfully re-
sumed his seat.
I repeated the title.
My Cousin Frank.
46 Say what you ple     01(oldfelhow, it's
Slow, deuced slow," said m   coui, throw-
ing his newly-lighted cigar oit of the win-
(dow with such force that it contmiiiued its course
on a straight line for many seconds through
the sweet spring air, which greeted oit' nios-
triloi, redolent with tie weight of June ross
and (lfoulils. I could not agree with him,
although lie brotugit all sos of ar'gmnent.
to testify to the truth of his assertion.  It
was an incontrovertible fact. that we had left
New~ Yor'k while thme capital yetlbore its gay~-
eties like Wrolsey, his "' blmshing honors, thick
upon it -" that we had conic to a sec(e
place early in June ; that we ulidnhot knmw a
soul " amid were totally tma('(1maintedl with
a " body " within fifty miles of our present
place of residence ; that there were 110 -hs,
no theatres, no sigis of am opera, no halls,
no lops--literally nothing, Frau k said, to
emliven td ulliess of EvermtonPoint.W e
differed as widely om this head as we id
on those of our physical and mental structure.
I considered the place little short of an earth-
ly paradise-if such an anomaly ean exist-
amd had made arragemnemits to spemd the
summer oin the p~icturesquie baniks wtimh skirt
the waves of the silverylHudson stream.
Our present domicil was amalm.ost prince-
ly residence, built bit a few years ago by
one of our then new rich, who shiotly after
becamesa prominent member of tme numer-
otus class of' new poor. Secluded imi a muchl-
aneholy towi in Germay, the family who
once held state withi these walls was ekimg
out a miserable existence, whose sole support
consisted of the remit of' this house, time iiad
speculator, the father, who had raised them
so suddenly from poverty to wealth, and
more suddenly still lowe'eh them from wealth
to poverty again, having sunk beneath the
weight of miisfortunie and of' sicktiess-iiot
of the body, hut of the niind--adndemantd-
ed no longer any domain on earth save a
quiet and perhaps forgotten resting lace in
a cemetery where burial lots are cheap. had
he , died before his splendid Soap-bubble-
fortune had burst, he would now be hying in
Greenwood with perhaps an obelisk, or other
flaunting lucre-bought thing, bearing upon
its marble surface a list of virtues which onl-
rich men possess, rearing its imiperislmal$le
head far above the perishable clay which
ciumibles imto dust beneath.  It was mot a
pleasant story to have hanging about every
nook and corner of our su:imier retreat,
surely; but who, now-a-days, is so foolish as
to busy himself ahoumt the amntecedenits of thle
place which for' the notice lie inmhiahits P Mat-
ter's it aught to you that omi thme deck von niow
tread on one of' our oceami palaces was emi-

42


JOHN MORRIS' MONEY.

-411
y f'
{I fi

acted a midnight crime ?-that at this point
a troublesome heir to property was pushed
from his hold, and then (after a few minutes'
lapse of time) a loud cry of " man overboard
-my eldest brother overboard "-was raised ?
Who knows of such things?  Who cares to
'hear them ? What good could we do if even
w'e did know and hear?  No; let it all pass.
Let the Everton family die of starvation in
the German village if such is their destiny,
while I run riot in their princely halls if such
is mine.
But I am not a man to run riot; every-
thing in my nature rebels against that ex-
pression and against its enactment. Not
that I am an invalid; but in my youth I was
always delicate, and now in my manhood,
little as I care to own it to myself, I am not
strong. 'Tis true every person I know (ex-
cept one) extols my face, my figure, swears
I am a very Hercules for strength, a very
Apollo for grace ; but, thank - Heaven, my
looking-glass is no flatterer (caring little and
knowing less whether the image it reflects is
that of a rich or a poor man), and it tells me
my cheek is sallow, my eye lustreless, and1
my form thin and emaciated. My physicians
have often recommended a life residence in
the more genial climes of Europe, or on our
own far Southern coast.; but I cannot go.
Perhaps as the story progresses the secret of
this will divulge itself.
I said above that my cousin Frank and my-
self presented the two extremes of man-
nature. All that cringing sycophants said of
me was true of him-tall, manly, athletic;
" an eye like Mars, to threaten and com-
mand, Hyperion curls "-all the graces that
poets and young girls dream of were the
birthright of Frank Harley. We formed a
striking contrast as we trod together the
smooth gravel walks of Everton, or, mount-
ed on English thoroughbreds, scoured the
woods surrounding. He, straight as an In-
dian, elastic as a' gazelle, soft-eyed and
ruddy-complexioned as a girl. I, round-
shouldered, careworn, melancholy, though
two years the junior of the dashing fellow
who was my almost constant companion.
And yet such is the ingratitude of mortals,
to hear his story you would think I was the
lucky one, andlhe the poor, wretched miser-
able who felt that a great wrong had been
(lone him in bringing him into the world, and
numberless frightful acts of injustice com-
mitted since that interesting period. I can
hear his complaint now; it always ran:
" Devilish unlucky dog I am; not a penny
of my own in the world, while you-thousanms
upon thousands." Faugh ! money, money,
nothing but money; the very sound of the
word nauseated me.
Frank Harley's father and mine were two
biothiers, belonging to a family whichi boast-
ed, even on this democratic soil, of being
purely aristocratic ; their aiicestors belonged
to that select few of English nobles who set-.

tied here and possessed princely domains-
whole duchies and principalities of grounds
-but who fled back to England when our
Revolution broke out. Some member, how-
ever, remained here, and this was our pro-
genitor, who when he died left something
more tangible than his name to his posterity.
Thus Frank's father and mine were both rich
men at the outset-of life; but before long my
father had made himself thrice richer than
when he started, and Frank's father had wasted
his patrimony till actual poverty stared him and
his young wife in the face.. Then a great ex-
pediency was thought of-the babe about to
visit this mundane sphere, and who now
complained so bitterly of his ever having
been called upon to - make that entrance,
should be named, whether girl or boy, after
the bachelor uncle, Francis Harley, who
would, of course, in gratitude for said con-
descension, immediately constitute the as-
yet-unborn member of the family his heir or,
heiress. But two months after the arrival of
the little savior of the fortunes of his father's
house the bachelor uncle became a bachelor
no longer, and, in course of time. in answer
to Heaven's (all, and in direct antagonism to
my uncle's fervent prayers, I came, and
now, at the age of twenty-eight, stood be-
reft of all relations in the world except
Frank, possessed of my father and mother's
combined fortunes, of a weak constitution,
and the paternal name of Francis Harley.
My cousin was, I believe, christened this,
too; but it would have seemed as ludicrous
to call him Francisas it would to call me
Frank. He was frank, gay, dashing, bril-
liant. I was Francis-cold, melancholy and
ill-favored. I must not forget the other differ-
ence between us, which always formed the
staple of Frank's conversation when we were
quite alone and not likely to be overheard. I'
was rich. le was poor. We lived together,
and had done so for years, he consenting to
this arrangement because of no reason on
earth but of my being "tke deucedest nicest
fellow going," and I falling in with it because
it suited my fancy to have something that I
could claim kindred with near inc in solitude
or pleasure. Sometimes I grew vastly tired
of him, and often have been on the point of.
making a different arrangement; but as often
have gazed into his face and seen the look of
his father there, which brought mine back to
memory, and then I said no word of my plan
in regard to separation.
" Now, isn't it slow?" reiterated Frank,
throwing himself at full length on a damask-
satin divan, and kicking the sofa cushion out
into space. I picked it up from the floor and
brushed off the dust which his foot had left
there. It was of no great value, a worsted
thing, made by some woman's hand; but I
placed it cairefuilly on a chair. Then I an.-
swered him:
a' Why, Frank, I see nothing ' slow' about
it. We have horses, carriages, boating, fish.'

45

ing; later we shall have gunning, long
walks, all the new books to read, all the
prominent New York jouf-nals and periodicals
to devour, a luxurious house to live im, and
magnificent grounds to surround us."
" Yes, but we don't see a single body from
morning till night: we don't know a human
soul within fifty miles."
To this argument of bodies and souls I
could but remain silent, having no proof to
the contrary to adduce.
" Why don't we go to some of the fashion-
able watering places?"
le knew well enough why we did not. I
had left the city for health, and I did not
think it very probable that scarce commodity
was to be found in one of the watering pla-
ces, where so much stronger liquid than wa-
ter is drunk-especially under the guidance
of my friend Frank.
The house here is taken for six months,"
I said evasively.
That's nothing," he answered. True, it
was nothing to him. " We are forced to pay
for it for that length of time," said he, using
the first person plural, with delightful cool-
ness; "'.but, by Jove ! we are not forced to
live in it."
True, agaim; but I still held out for my
present place of sojourn. .He harped at the
different watering places with unceasing vig-
or, however, until at length I said, impa-
tiently:-.
Go there alone, since Everton- is so un-
pleasant to you."
A hot blush, part of anger and part huml-
iation, suffused his handsome features. How
could he go to .those expensive places with-
out me ? My conscience smote me for my
hastiness, aind I at once said:
" Well, Frank, give the orders to the
servants. We will start next Monday."
That was Friday, and a chile1 who longs
impatiently for a new toy could not have
pined with more eagerness than Frank did
for the arrival of the day of our departure.
It came at last, however, as everything does
in this world--joy, pain, health, sickness,
death-and, like all these, fell short of the
expectation. I felt that in leaving Everton
I was leaving quiet, rest'of mind, tranquility
of heart -, and that, in seeking the gay haunts
of pleasure's votaries, I was rushing onward
to misery, anguish and despair. Nay, smile
not at the thought. A sick man who lives
within himself sees the kaleidoscope of hu-
man life clad in far less brilliant hues than he
for whom woman's heart yearns and her eyes
overflow. What was woman's heart to mme ?
What did I know of that incomprehensible
piece of mechanism?
Frank had no such misgivings as myself.
If he had been on the direct road to Canaan,
lie could not have looked more serenely hap-
py than lie did when comfortably ensconced
in the railway car which was steaming on to
Saratoga. IIe had provided himself with

numberless elegancies for tih  t rip-lilt
comforts of which I was utterly destitute-
having a marvellously fine light gray silk
coat, to protect his under one from dust, a
jaunty hat, which became him   much, and
carrying in his hand a bag containing, I af-
terwards discovered, as many nec'essaries of
life in the shape of knives, forks, brandy
flasks, &amp;c., as if Saratoga had been a dist ant
wilderness and we were going to founnd a
colony there. Travellers spoke to us, and
paid nmh (deference to Fraik, leaving me
and my thoughts to keep each other con-
panv.
"Laura Asheton will be there," said Frank,
carelessly gazing out of the window after a
way traveller, with whom he had been carrv-
ing on an interesting discussion on the rela-
tive beauties of English and American girls.
Where ? " said I, all the blod in my
heart rushing up to my face, and then desert-
ing it, leaving me pale and icy cold.
" At Saratoga, to be sure," answered my
cousin, "' Everybody will be there ; aren't you
glad you came?"
Glad !   1 was   intoxicated  with joy;
mad with delight. She was to be there--I
should see her.
how did you know this, Frank ? " I
asked.
I got a letter from hem' aunt this morn-
ing, and she mentioned it."
Strange that Mrs. Warner should write to
my ('ousiln.
Frank," said I again, just as le was
composing himself to sluimber, " are you
sure that letter was for von? "
" Here it is-perhaps it was written to
you. On the whole, I think it was, for there
is an allusion to money in it. .Nobody ever
alludes to money to Ie, as I have none to
allude to.
le handed me the letter, which was ad-
dressed to " F. Harley, Esq." It was but
natural that Frank should open it, and vet
his having done so angered moe. It eontain-
el but a few words, saving that Laura had
been recommended to drink the Saratoga
water, and asking me privately (of course
without Laura's knowledge) to advance her
quarterly income.
My father had been Lauri'a's guardian at
one period, and had invested hem' monev in
some railway stocks, which paid a very hand-
some percentage ; but for umany years now
the railway had ceased to exist, and ah muon-
cys which had been invested therein were
among the things of the dead. But for all
that I had kept on paving the amount she
had been in the habit of receiving, often ad-
ding to it, under pretence that the road was
doing better. She thanked me occasionally
for the interest I took in her affairs, but of
course suspected nothing further. I lay no
claim to the title of' generous for this-my
feeling for her was of a different staimpj. I
would have beggared moyse'lf for hem'. And

44

JOlIN MORRIS' MONEY.


JOHN MORRIS' MONEY.              47

46                         JunLNir      t1
now the secret which prevented my going
South or to Europe is out-not such a very
mysterious one after all. I was in love with
Laura Asbeton. I could not leave the coun-
try she was in.
It was night when we arrived at Saratoga,
and found our way to one of those wretched
caravans-ries yclept a hotel. I toiled pain-
fully up to the topmost story of the house, to
reach tIe only room which was still vacant,
leaving Frank to ingeribe our names on that
ponderous calendar of inrtal (few immortal)
cognomens, the register hook.
The next day I made researches for Laura
and her aunt, but found they had riot arrived.
My next duty was to send Mrs. Warner a
draft for twice the sum she had requested.
This done, I wended- my way toward the ho-
tel. There I found Frank conning the pages
of a pigmy newspaper with great and evi-
lent interest. At last a smile of self satis-
faction broke forth, and with a low laugh he
exclaimed:
"xThere it is; look at it, Francis."
It was nothing more or less than the an-
nouncement of the arrival~ of F. Harley, Esq.,
under the head of h distinguished visitors."
" Did yon ask them to put your name
there. Frank?" I asked.
tFMy name ! " ie ejaculated. " What do
they care for my name? I'm not rich, am I?
A rose by any other name would smell as
sweet;' but Frank Harley, were he suddenly
dubbed Rothschild, would occupy a far did
ferent status in the financial and social world
to the one in which cruel fortune has now
placed the individual.in question."
" What interest can it be to hy one at
Saratoga or omt of it to knew that I am
here? " I said sullenly.
"The interest of the public is a newspa-
per's capital," he answered.  "My being
here is of interest to no one."
At this moment we were interrupted by
the entrance of the clerk, who came rushing
toward us, and, with great volubility and no
little condescension, informed us that the
" Ambassador s-et of rooms on the fi'st
floor" would be at our disposal the next day,
as the ministerial party now occupying them
were to leave by the early morning train.
"Very well," said my cousin, waving off
the officious personage with a gesture worthy
an emperor.  " Have them ready as soon as
possible, and then send up some porters to
assist our valet to move our trunks."
The official retired somewhat abashed,
but, on the whole, serenely happy. He wa
a pleasant man, looking as if he had beer
first well scrubbed with a scrubbing brush
and then suddenly immersed in large and
snowy vestments of the material known as
"duck." In this state of spotless purity ir
regard to clothes he remained during th
whole period of our stay. .
"Did yous bespeak that suit of rooms

" Yes, to be sure. Who ever heard of F.
Harley, Esq., being stewed alive in a box
of a room on the fifth story ? Now these
apartments we shall have to-morrow are
something like--they are grand, noble--
they're dear, to be sure, very dear; but
that does not matter. For see the advanta-
ges. We can entertain in these rooms-
there are some professional singers here now
-for a mere trifle we could give a splendid
musical soirie."
" When you give that, Frank," I said,
smiling, " please don't invite me."
"What a deuced low spirited, uncomfort-
able sort of a misanthrope you are, Francis,"
he exclaimed, petulantly.
Though it was scarcely fair in him to make
this rebuke, J felt what he said was true. I
was fast becoming(hypochondriacal. Well,
that was my fate ; but was it not a huge
piece of selfishness in me to trammel this
joyous, frivolous spirit which restlessly flut-
tered its wings against the iron-bound cage
in which destiny had placed it ?
" Well, Frank," I said, "'don'tlet me in-
terfere with your plans for enjoyment. Be
as gay as you can while you can. If I feel
like it I will drop in at your festivals occa-
sionally."  So saying, I filled up a check for
an adequate sum, and, after signing, handed
it to him. He was all smiles, all thanks, all
praise ; pleasant words to hear; but as often
before it had (lone, the sound of the voice
seemed to me false and hollow. The bright
eve wasprendered brighter still; but it struck
rue that the increased brilliancy came from,
the greed which the money awakened, not
from gratitude which the act called forth.
After. he had left me I cursed myself for a
mean-spirited, narrow-minded, suspicious
nature, and resolved to harbor no more such
ideas about Frank.      N
Laura and her aunt arrived the next day,
and alighted at the hotel where we were
stopping. I met her in the vast space they
call the "ladies' parlor," whither I had flit-
ted, hoping to see her numberless times dur-
ing the day. She came at length, however,
accompanied by her aunt, in response to the
card I had sent up to them. I watched her as
she walked across the long room, and noticed
that she was blushing, deeply enhancing her
beauty thereby, and that she glanced ner-
vously at every gentleman she passed, look-
ing for him who had summoned her. Heav-
ens! could so much emotion be caused by
the knowledge that she was soon to meet
s me?   My heart bounded with joy. She
Sassed me ; for I sat half hidden by _a win-
low curtain. As she did so I pronounced
I her name. She started and turned, and her
look of blushing happiness was changed for
oneof disappointment.
on'Why Fancis, is it you ?" she said care-
lessly " I thought it was Frank's card."
,I said nothing.
,"aYou ought to have some distinguishing

mark on.your cards, so that one might kno
whc   itis that calls.".
Was this the greeting she gave me afte
three months absence? Was this the en
counter which I had longed for, yet shruiil
from for very fear of her too great powe
over me?
1 don'tt know what we could have put o
our cards," I answered, in a tone as careles
as her own.
.Whynot senior and junior ? " she asked
laughingly.   Oh no, that would never do:
people might think that Frank was your
You forget that lie is my senior, Laura.'
True. She had forgotten that.
.You ought to send up your cartes de(
visite when you call," said Mrs. Warner.
A hot flush suffused my features at this
suggestion. The difference in the individu
als rendered even mistaking the photograph
Sof one forthe likeness of the other an utter
impossibility. Perhaps I was morbidly sen-
sitive on the subject of this great disparity
in personal advantages between my cousin
and myself; but it never troubled me except
when I thought of Laura.
By the by, where is Frank? " she in-
quired.
Driving, I believe. I have not seen him
this morning."
Will he soon be back ? "
I suppose so."
At this juncture Mrs. Warner took occa-
sion to thank me for the promptitude with
which I had attended to " that little matter
of business; " and thus, after the interchange
of a few common-places, ended my first in-
terview at Saratoga with Laura Asheton.
Perhaps I ought to explain how we became
so intimate as to drop the titles of " Mr."
and'"Miss" and call each other by the
Christian  name.  Frank and I had'lived
with Mrs. Warner for several years during
our youth. Frank was an orphan, I mother-
less, and my father placed us under the
charge of this good lady, than whom none
better fitted to have care of the moral cul-
ture of two growing boys. Our intellectual
requrmernents were more than satisfied by
competent teachers, who give us lessons at
the house. My father was always prejudiced
against boarding schools, and my health was
certainly fostered with more care by Mrs.
Warner than it would have been by any
matron of an establishment of the "Dothe-
boys Hall " order. Frank was educated by
my father in the same manner as myself. I
have often wondered why my father never
left him any money ii his will ; but to this
lay I can remember his telling Frank, and
rie too, for that matter, that the former was
an ungrateful, worthless fellow, whose only
chance for heconming a solid, steady man was
being thrown omit into the world and left to
struggle for himself." This he had never
done since my accession to the fortune. and

w  it was one of my pet plans to marry Frank
to the girl he loved, however poor or lowly
r she might be, and then on his wedding day
- hand him a check for as many thousand (101-
k lars as he had years, providing he married
r before he was fifty (which there was every
probability of his doing). - I (cold do' this
n without seriously interfering with my own
s yearly income. It was in this manner that
we three children, then called each other
Frank, Francis and Laura, and to this day
we have adopted no other mode.
r I don't know whether Laura Asheton was
considered a beauty by anybody but myself.
She was a tender-eyed, pink-checked, amiable
looking girl, elegant im her dress a1d figure,
lmt laying no claims to the leseripitiye ad-
jective " fist," being as directly opposite to
" rapid " in every particular as well might
- be. I heard a ghastly pale lady say once to
her that if she were dressed in costume
Laura would look only like a peasant girl,
and nothing niore, wih Ithose rcd cheeks.
,Ahi, lady ! if Arcadia's peasants were like
Laura, how fain would I leave the at uos-
phere of American bon ton to fhy to those
leafy bowers and dream away my lif-
Frank returned from   his drive in due
course of time, and, on entering the roolmi
made a vigorous attack, in which the safety
of the bell-pull was greatly comiiproiied.
" Bring me up a bottle of Veive (liquot,"
said my cousin to the waiter who answered
the summons ; " the real thing -1do you
hear? - no trash    l ie off 1l' bgeie.
Clear onut, will you
This to the lhibernian who was wasting;
precious moments in the inspection of the
airanigemeits of our drawing-room, which
had been enlivened a little by the introduc-
tion of some few objes d'art, bronzes, etc.
Theatrical slaves, when they fly to do the
bidding of the genii who conmnanid them,
could not have disappeared faster than the
Celt iid on hearing Frank's peremptory order.
He flew, and presently the chiamipagne flew
all over the cloth of the centre table, much
to my annovance ; for I am a neat person
naturally anm cannot bear to see destruction
of any kind. Wanton carelessness positive-
ly pains Me.
By Jove, sir," suddenly ejaculated my
cousin, after paying his devoirs to the bottle,
which I refused to salute, " she's the most
gorgeous woniain I ever saw.  ' She's all my
famnicy painted her, she's lovely,' etc., etc.
Have you seen her ?"
Yes," I answered, looking out into the
hot, dusty street, at the jaded creatures who
came here under pretence of seeking country
air, and now pitving. now despising them
for their sheeplike pioclivities, in thus herd--
ing together in untoward places, because,
forsooth, fashion willed it so.
" Where did you see lier? " dhemasnided
Frank brieathlecsshy, as if it had been a pies-
tion of life amid deatth.

ORRIS'S MONEY.v


JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.                49

48               JOHN MORRIS'' MONEY.

" She came into the drawing-room to see
me." I answered, quietly. "I sent up my
card."
A prolonged stare, in which both eves and
mouth opened to their fullest extent, then
an uncontrollable burst of laughter, were the
signs of wonder and mirth with which my
cousin greeted this remark.
" Well, well, I've always heard that still
waters run deep; but to think of a quiet, re-
tiring fellow like you having the ' cheek' to
send up your card to a woman you don't
know. And she came down ! Of course
she did ! She'd heard you were one of the
richest men in this country."
" Woman I don't know-' cheek,' " I re-
peated, in no very amiable tone' of voice.
"Who are you talking about ? "
Who are you talking about?"
"About Laura Asheton."
" The devil take-that is, I meant to say,
I wasn't speaking of Laura Asheton. I was
talking of the new arrival who has set every-
body on the qui vive-the renowned French
lady, Madame de Viron."
I listened, but heeded not his wholesale
praises of this lady ; she had only been at
Saratoga two hours; yet Frank at that mo-
ment could have written her biographyif the
pigmy newspaper had chosen to ask it of
him.
"She's a young widow, just twenty-three;
was married at some barbarously youthful
period to an ancient brick, who considerately
departed this life two years ago, leaving her
an immense fortune all in her own right.
Her mother is travelling with her, and they
are visiting this country on a tour of pleas-
use, and will return to Paris in November."
It was not until this theme was well nigh
exhausted (my patience had been long be-
fore) that Frank thought of the person who
so constantly occupied my reflections.
"So Lolly has arrived, has she ? Did you
say anything about sitting next them at din-
ner?"
I frankly confessed that while with them I
had never so much as thought of dinner; at
which avowal of imbecility Frank gazed at
ie with an expression of pity for my weak-
ness and sorrow for my incapacity, which was,
positively speaking, " And this is the man
-I know he was inwardly saying-" who is
rich, while I, such a man as I, am poor."
"I must see about it then," said he, more
scornfully than the heinous circumstance
seemed to me to warrant.
I accompanied-him down stairs, heard him
give the order, saw him fee the waiter, and
then we strolled out together fora walk. It
was a little before the dinner hour when we
returned and repaired to the drawing-room
to await the coming of the ladies. Laura
and her aunt were among the first to appear.
The beautiful blush which I had observed on
her face in the morning again suffused her
features as her blue eyes fell on Frank.

Why, Lolly, how do you do? " said he,
gazing over her shoulder at a bevy of ladies
-who were entering the room, and- scarcely
glancing at my beautiful peri, whose hand
he was holding. " So you've come, have
you ? I told Francis everybody would be
here. Why, bless me, how cold your hand
is! You can't be well. System out of or-
der, eh? The water will do you-good."
So saying he dropped the little hand, and
left her to encase it in a tiny glove, as she had -
(lone to its mate already. I knew the cause
of the cold hand. I knew all the symptoms
-contradictory, extraordinary, inexplicable
-which the emotion of the heart will awak-
en in thxe body. I knew it, and then cursed
myself. She loved Frank Harley-it was
as plain as day-the boy who had teased her
as a child, whom she knew as a man to be
fickle and faithless. She now hardly dared
to lift her eyelids to him, investing him with.
that sanctity which was the reflex of her own
pure feeling, and not in any manner a part
of the man's nature.
By some singular coincidence--perhaps
not so mysterious to Frank as to the rest-
the new arrival and her mother sat directly
opposite us at dinner, and thus I had a good
opportunity of scanning the features of the
" renowned " French lady. My first im-
pression was not altogether a favorable one ;
that is, my first impression of her face. Au
rested, all was charming. Her dress was a
pleasing mixture of grave colors and gay,
and of a cut which, though youthful, still
partook of a matronly character, suiting thus
at once her years (yet few) and her position
in life, which was advanced,- as she had been
wife, and was now widow, at an age when
many of her sex are yet maids. Her figure
was full of grace ; but it struck me that the
face, which all lauded for its piquancy, many.
for its prettiness - which Frank apostro-
phized in a rather singular, but perhaps not
inappropaiate, phrase, as " deuced lovely "-
was more marked by an expression of com-
bined boldness and cunning than I could have
wished. Still, the more I looked at it the
more attractive it became, and before the'
dinner was over I agreed with Frank that
Madame de Viron was a very fascinating
person in appearance.
" Fascinating! She's bewildering! hbe-
witching ! I say, Francis, did it ever strike
you that our friend there on your right, Lol-
ly Asheton, is a deucedly insipid girl? "
At another time I would have struck him
to the earth for such an expression. My first
impulse was to do this now ; but then a sec.
end thought, quicker than lightning flash,
came to me, whispering, " Let him think
slightingly of her. When she finds he does
not love her perhaps she will transfer her af-
feetions to you." I do not say I clutched at
this idea eagerly. I have over been too
poud to be0 mean, and what meanness could
he greater than to underrate a woman you es-

teem under such circumstances as these ?  I
did not reply to his question, the very sub-
ject of our remark causing a diversion by oh-
serving that everybody had gone, and as the
dinner was over she saw no reason for not
falling in with everybody's example. Every-
body was gone except the French party op-
posite, who sat sipping their wine slowly and
sensibly, after the European fashion. The
two companions of the lady who had so cap-
tivated Frank were her mother, between
whom and her daughter there existed not the
slightest resemblance, who was called Mad-
ame de Monsel, and a short, chubby, slightly
oleaginous gentleman. whose name I never
caught exactly, but who, like the ladies, re-
joiced in the aristocratic prefix of " de."
We left them in the dining-room, and,
Laura and her aunt accepting a drive with
me and Frank, we lost sight of Madame de
Viron for-that evening. On the next a hop
was to be given at the hotel ; and Frank in-
formed me in the morning that " this night
or never " he would be introduced to the fair
French lady.  I did not ask him how this
was to be brought about, and was utterly
amazed afterwards to see that he had some-
how or other scraped up an acquaintance with
the French gentleman, as my cousin left me to
discourse with him. After they had- taken
" a drink " together and indulged in other
friendly procedures, Frank cane up to me
and asked me in a low tone if I wanted to
use the phaton and horses that morning. I
said no, and before the monosyllabic word
had well passed my lips Frank was back
again at the Frenchman's side, and begging
that person to join him in his morning drive.
This offer was graciously accepted, and the
last I heard of the pair the Frenchman was
loudly complimenting Frank on the beauty
and good taste of his equipage, assuring
him that it was far too stylish an affair for
this country, and, to be properly apprecia-
ted, should be rolling along the smooth ave-
nue of the Champ Elysees. They both pass-
ed me without a look or gesture, and I went
to seek Laura. I found her, and, accompan-
ied by her aunt, we took a stroll through the
town. Her manner was, as usual, perfectly
kind to me-a mixture of sweetness and
friendly familiarity which oppressed me.
How gladly would I have exchanged this for
the blushing nervousness she displayed' to-
wards Frank ! She inquired where he was,
and seemed very uncomfortable when I told
her who his companion was in the drive.
''Frank is rather remiss in his attentions
to old friends," said Laura, with unfeigned
annoyance.
-   Ah, my dear," said her aunt, " I always
told you Francis was the kinder of my two
boys."
I pressed my good friend's hand for thanks,
and looked up at Laura to see if she coinci-
(led in the sentiment, Alas ! her thoughts
were far away from me ; for at that moment
4

Frank came dashing by in the photon, and
the Frenchman   directed  his eye-glass to
Laura's flushed face in so decided a manner
that my very blood boiled at the sight of his
now fast-retreating form.
"Insolent fellow!" I exclaimed,
"Who? Not- our Frank, I hope?"     By
all the saints in the calendar, the girl had
seen but him, nor even noticed that the
Frenchman sat by his side ! Once home, I
shut myself in my room, and, engrossed in
the reading of a book upon which I forced
my mind to dwell, heard naught more of the
actors in my drama till long past nightfall,
when an unusual hurry and bustle was heard
on the staircase, and "sounds of music began
to issue from the dancing hall below. I then
remembered the hop, and determined to go
down-not to join in it, but to gaze at Laura
in her ball dress. I knew she would be
beautiful, and reason whispered me to shun
her on that very account; still I could not
resist the temptation, and, after a half hour
of indecision, I found myself at the door of
the dancing-hall. I settled myself in a seat
behind the door, or partly so, and, glancing
across the room, beheld Laura sitting with
her aunt, and listening with downcast eyes
and happy, happy smiles to the platitude of
Frank, who stood bending over her and
whispering, fairly whispering, in her ear.
They made a fine picture thus together, the
handsome features of both enhanced by the
excitement, and perhaps by the subject they
were talking about, and for the first time in
my life, for the first time in all the years I
had known him, I felt that I hated Frank
Harley. Hated him, not with a mean, pitiful
spite which would wear itself out, but with
the deep, undying hatred of a man who has
been attacked and worsted in that which he
holds most dear. Yes, there was the sting!
I was worsted. If I had felt that he and 1
stood on equal grounds, as we did when we
were boys, I could have fought the battle
bravely, and if vanquished have succumbed;
but to feel that he had conquered without
even having so much as made an eflort to
obtain the prize which now lay quietly with-
in his grasp ! Why, why had he the advan-
tage of me in every particular? And yet I
-no, Laura Asheton was not a imercenary
girl-perhaps if she had   been it would
have been better for my peace of mind; for I
would have loved her less for that defect.
My mind was diverted from    the scene
which was passing before inc by hearing my
name pronounced repeatedly quite close to
ine-my name or Frank's, I knew not which.
But how did you find out he was so rich,
mon cher?" asked the younger French lady
of their male companion ; for it was he who
had pronounced the name of Iarley.
"Everybody says he's worth more than a
million of dollars. Dollars ! (10 you under-
stand ; not francs."
"Ah, mon Die!" exclaimed the lady, with


50               JOHN MORRIS' MONEY.

a little scream of delighted surprise; " intro-
duce him at once, cher ami."
This little conversation was carried on in
French, and I presume that, even if they
saw me, they deemed me far too unlettered
to understand their courtly language. My
surprise at the disclosure of Frank's sud-
den accession to fortune was enhanced- by
seeing that gentleman himself approach, and,
after introduction by the Frenchman, he be-
gan paying the most false, most shallow, most
egregious compliments to Madame de Vir-
on which it ever ceuld have been    that
lady's lot to listen to. Disgusted at his in-
sincerity, I left my retreat and went across
to Laura. I observed that she refused all
invitations to dance now, and I therefore
deemed the moment a fit one for a tete-a-tete.
"You are-not dancing, Laura ?"  I said,
interrogatively.
"No," she answered, " I don't feel much
like it; but what good genius brings you in
such a scene as this, Francis ?"
"4The same who I hope will accompany
me but of it. Will you go back on the
piazza with me, Laura?"
She gathered up a large shawl or cloak
which was hanging on the chair behind her,
and casting it over her shoulders formed an
admirable relief of dark blue to the delicate
tinting of her face and hair. She- took my
arm with perfect freedom, and, when answer-
ing my questions, looked into my face with a
guileless; indifferent expression, which was
greatly in contrast to the trepidation and
fluttering she had displayed  when Frank
spoke to her.
"Laura," I said, walking with her quite
out of earshot of others who were engaged
in the same pursuit, "1 this is rather an unto-
ward place for a serious conversation; yet
circumstances which have lately transpired
force me, as it were, to have an immediate
explanation with you."
"Dear me, Francis, what a portentous
tone. What has happened to you."
"1There has happened to me the greatest
misfortune which it has yet been my unhappy
lot to sustain."
" Oh, Francis ! my dear, dear Francis!
bow sorry I am for it! What is it?  What
can it be? "
She accompanied her endearing words by
a look so full of sweetness and sincerity that,
coupled with her angelic beauty, I forgot all
I had previously seen, and in a moment 'of
idiocy fancied that perhaps, after all, she did
love me.
"'Laura," I exclaimed wildly, ",can you,
do you, love me ?"
"Love you, Francis? you know I do. If
you were my own brother I could not love
you better."
" But only as a brother, Laura? Only as
a brother'?"
" Of course, Francis, as nothing else."

"Not as a husband, Laura?   Tell me-
speak quickly !"  _
"No, oh! no, Francis, that could never
be'!"
" And why not-why ? "
" Because I love somebody else. if you
must know the truth."
And that somebody is-"
Frank Harley."
A groan burst from my lips. 0, Heaven !
must this man stand ever between my best
hopes and their fulfilment? If he had rob-
bed rue of anything but her-her whom I had
loved so long, so wildly.
"i Laura," I said, with an effort to be calm,
"listen to reason. Do not be insane in this.
Frank is not worthy of your love. Oh! I
am not pleading for myself now, but for you;
your happiness. He does not love you."
He does, sir. He swore it to me to-
night, there in the ball-room."
My head fairly swam  at this evidence of
his hypocrisy. 1, who had but now listened
to his avowals to Madame de Viron, was
half bewildered at seeing this pure girl so
firmly convinced of his love for herself.
And he, the man, what did he deserve?
Naught but contempt-he was unworthy re-
venge.
"Oh, Laura, be warned !" I exclaimed;
" how I could undeceive you in regard to
that man if I chose."
" In doing so you would- betray your cous-
in's confidence, for which you would meet
with his anger and my lack of esteem.
Good night, Francis."
She left me and joined her aunt, and I
rushed up to my room, where I remained a
close prisoner for a week. My servant,
used to my vagaries; refused admittance to
all, even to Frank, above all to Frank, and
I had no opportunity of watching his pro-
gress. either with L'ura or Madame de Vi-
ron ; but I cherished in my heart such a ha-
tred for him, for his fickleness, his fi'ivolity,
that 1 dreaded to meet him, fearing that, in
the excess of my rage. I- would do hirm an
injury-him, the only living thing on earth
in whose veins coursed kindred blood.
Sorry to disturb you, sir; but there are
two ladies, standing outside who wish to
speak to you," said my servant, in a low
tone, fearing to disturbb my reveries.
" Who are they, Williams? " I asked.
Mrs. Warner and Miss Laura, sir."
My first impulse was to start and rush to
them ; my next, to falter like a man who
had committed some crime which in a mo-
ment of weakness ie has confessed, and now
stands convicted of.. I managed, however,
to open the door; and there saw them dress-
ed in travelling costume, evidently on the
eve of departure.
" We couldn't go -away without wishing
you good-bye, Francis," said Mrs. Warner,
holding out her hard to me-.

"Are you leaving Saratoga?" I asked
feebly.
" Yes, by the next train ; and if we don't
hurry we shan't catch it. Come, now, say
good-bye to Laura."
All my old love returned with redoubled
ardor at sight of her, and with it something
of my old strength.
May I speak with you for a moment ?
I inquired-" only for a moment, but pri-
vately ?"
" Oh, yes indeed, F'rancis," she answered.
I've been so unhappy thinking you were
-angry at nre."
Great Heaven ! was the girl mad to keep
saying such things, which, while meaning
nothing, on her part, totally unmanned me?
She withdrew with me to the emrnlrasure of a
window, and there I asked her blutly, with-
out a word of preparation or apology for my
brusqueness, whether she still loved Frank.
" Yes," she replied, " more than ever."
I groundil y teeth in an agony of disap-
pointed love ; and yet what else could I cx-
pect?
" And you think ie loves you ?"
" I ascertain of it."
"'Laura A.;fbeton, answer me one question
more. Are yorn unler air engagement of
mra r'riage to my~ (cousirn ?"
y Not a positive (r defirite one, but one
that is unrder'stood. Fr ank is poor; so am
1 - before lie can inrarry he must contrive to
obtain a position of some sort."
Thank God, there xxas this imepedimrenrt in
their way. I rebelled in the thought that I,
Nu i h one stroke of my pen, coubl make the
happiness of both these people-orre of whoi
I loved, the other whom I hated. I wouli
enrich Frank, I thought, and thus at least
obtain hier gratitude. No, no, I could not
sell magnainrty even for such a price. I
heard irmy cousin's voice on the stairs, and
-knew that he was coming to bid them make
haste ; so, not caring to niwe(t him, I cast a
parting look at Laura and entered my room,
shutting themn and hini out. Would that I
could hive barred the door to my own weary-
ing wearing thoughts as well
In the evening, on returning to my apart-
ment, to my anger and surprise I found rmy
'ousin installed there-awaiting lie.
Francis," ie begah, in a would-be sweet
tone, " I have been cut to the heart by vour
treatment of ine lately ; I have, indeed. I
have done nothing to merit it; I haven't,
really. I never was soi sorry for anythring
in inmy life as I anm by your giving rme the cold
shrorrlder in this manner."
"What do you want of me?" I asked
sullenly, rightly divining that that was th
cause of all this won(lerful affect ior\.
Francis, don't talk in that sharp tonue
it's not a bit li ke yorur' usual (rue. You
know, Franceis, ill or wvell, I have always
renrainedt with 'yoo, for rio reason err heart1
except that you're r thre nicest fellow-"

."What do you want of inc ? " I r'eitta-
el still more savargelv ; for the hollow imalskr
hauldi' dropped from his lace now, anl I ax w
the fawinig, sycophantic features in their
true hideousniess.
'' I hate tuo ask you, for you lave ul nays
been so very liberal with mie ; but the firact
I'm going to be omnrried,-and if' xyou uwuduld
just give ie the- to e. u-rnsrgritaurt u iu
of fie thousanl dollars, I would lm   x .r \n
and  teach  ru x'chiiren  to  revere  theoo'  b eth
tomr ot' their irtber."
Ilis children-Laura Asheton's 'hilr'n!
and I the poor tool that must mnu'eels furniish
the means" for the marriage  I It was to
inmlh to bear. The roorms' s:1n ilonodulif, mIy
eyes seemd iij'ted with blood. Thell
was a struggle betweur uus; for I fll _nulixy
upon lmu, and all I remeibe'irnow'x' is hi,,
poltroon like, 1befoet hi'e was tonbedl , c"0 u -
paratively spleakinug, he cei '"  elhicIt"' ::111
slunk away.     I t't''rmlined to h-ave the
place the very next day, anid baith' rmy s('un -
ant prepare for ' departure.  As nra b' hr it
posel, I saw nothing of 'r:it, lull just h
fore the hour of closing I presented Ilmil'it'
at thre. rin'ipal bank of the town maxx'nr ;l lor-
ed iun one of miy cheeks for a tritlin'" suo-
just enough to pay the bill at ithll hot{l and
leave a surplus for travelling e'xpIns'S.
Moire)' goes fast, sir', at Saat oga," said
the cashier opening his eyes vwid hrwher Ihe
saw miy check.
" Yes,'' I Ianswered, wonuerinrg what it wI'
to himi, iunt nt wishing to re rude.
" Get that yfixe thousand dollars all right
this morning, sir? " int'?' ired the eisrhuci'.
1 gave : stare of surprise l;out, ' mbc tr-
ing that in other instances than cast ,ut' 'ien'
hodilydangh r prsenuct of' iunud is i rethi'i,
I said-
" id yu cahlr a check of rmine u6r ,00
this miorrninrg ?"
"-Yes, si'. It was yor sigut re ; 111
right, you know.    Your' cousn1tin'ew th
m1oney'."
" Let mte S1 tie cheek," I sid.
Ile had no ditlicuilty in tinrdinkg it, :1nid I saw
at a glance that the signatulre was a trg ' ,
execute tx' by my eonursii iFrank. I 'areud rut t
'rustling  of' the  w ml 'n d  for the urn' o u yr;i ;u'  1 t III(
worst part of m   ryat nan''re ht:l heni (t rnnat
ever  snice  ouri' st r1ug l'  on'fI t iof   t it t  itt  r
and a xn iekhed joyl' took lossessiotn of ri:' n
I r'ele'te d thrat I hb ll lmI  hrrol b t hahi
would separate fhhnir ete'ra:lly fu rm  h w
mn to uwhr, I fnld, I 1uatha a n:
by reasonof mii' mmlut inrg coinst uta  x to fuh
I would take tins dfreuruicurnt,  'li   t
aloudn as a for'gen' ;p'1r'ive "'rk of tIt'
e lilbei'tyl ire xxais now rt'vlling iM. irrI thun
itriuuphll. Who c'o'ould ntell wthxlerm'rijur hi;u-'
for ' hhIuu  laura  mnigiht nut tIt'o me 11'.
rnr am  rry  fr  t ' e  f in '  nlo'  frit; In   'r
s nt hlp Ithem'. a till' I'd' ti thre dings otf
h thre past. Whoiu amronga Is firs iot had lhi
wickd nmomrents?2

JOh N MC)RRIS'S MONEY.                       ,l


52                     JOHN    11ORRIS'S MONEY.

JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

" I want you to give me this check," I
said: "please balance my account and let
me have it."
The man made no objection to this, and
in a short time handed me my bank book,
with the cancelled checks.
I walked away triumphantly, with the con-
victing document in my pocket, vowing in-
wardly that through it I would be revenged
on Frank Harley. At the ladies' entrance
of the hotel I met the mother of Madame
de Viron. She was weeping bitterly, and it
was some time before I could comprehend
the cause of her grief. At last it came out
out. Frank Harley and Madame de Viron
bad eloped together ! They had last been
seen together in a carriage after Frank's re-
turn from the bank, and nothing further had
transpired in 'egard to them, although many'
hours had since elapsed.
I was bewildered-perfectly thunderstruck !
Had I known that it was the French woman
he wanted to marry I would have given him
double the money he asked for-aye, triple
its amount.
" Americans are honorable, are they not?"
asked the mother; "6he will marry her?"
" I don't doubt it," I replied.
While we were yet speaking there arrived
a telegram for Madame de Monsel. It was
from her daughter, announcing that the mar-
riage ceremony had just been performed,
and begging forgiveness for their cavalier
style of leave taking.
Ah, thank Heaven !" sighed the lady,
" how glad I am it has turned out so. I as-
sure you she loves him truly. It was not his
immense wealth that dazzled her-indeed it
was not."
" I should think not," said a lady near,
who knew all about our family, and had
known us personally for some time; " she
must have been dazzled by very little if that
was the case. Why, do you mean to say
that your daughter didn't know that Frank
Harley hasn't a penny ?"
" What!" screamed the old French lady;
"do you mean to say that Francis Harley
isn't a millionaire ?"
"So he is, madame-this Francis Harley
-but his scapegrace cousin hasn't a penny
to bless himself with."
Another shriek from the French lady, salts
produced, handkerchiefs in demand, and I
left.
I had had scarcely time yet to realize all that
had passed. There was much bitterness in
the news to me; there was sorrow for Laura
when she should hear it. But one good
cane of the e%.il in it all-the mad, blind
fury, the beast-like rage had passed away,
and there remained nothing in my heart
against him but pity for his fault, pain for his
position.  I had vowed to have revenge
through the forged check-I would take it
now. I enclosed it and another for a like
amo' nt in a letter of congratulation to Frank

and wishes for his happiness. I knew little
then of what I learnt afterwards.
By the Lord, Harley !" said my friend
Stevenson, whom I met in Broadway shortly
after this occurrence, " this- is a jolly dis-
graceful affair Frank's got himself into."
" What affair?" said I, fearing a repeti-
tion of the check business.
" What affair?  Why, marrying that in-
famous Anette."
" Who's Anette ? " I asked, wonderingly-
"Why, that French woman, Anita, alias
La Precieuse, alias Madame de Viron,
alias-
".Stop! stop!" said I; "that will do."
I wished not to hear the details of her life.
I knew by this description that disgrace of'
the blackest kind was entailed upon the
name.
Laura took the news very quietly. She
said that her love had been rooted out sur-
prisingly, and instantly on hearing of his
marriage, leaving no lingering pang to cast
a blight on her youthful pathway. I never
spoke to her of the check.
. I hardly dare tell the rest;. for I have
shown myself such a passionate, unthinking,
unreasonable man that I fear 'twill jeopar-
dize Laura's good taste when I say that by-
and-by she bestowed on me the love I had
coveted so long. She found out, through no
indiscretion of mine, all about her real posi-
tion in a financial sense, and gratitude caused
her to entertain a warmer feeling than friend-
ship for me. She tells me that perhaps this
feeling is not that blind, uncertain affection
she once entertained for Frank, but 'tis a-
flame which will still be burning brightly
when the ashes of the other have lain smoul-
dering for years.
I heard from Frank three months after his
arrival in Paris (for they sailed for Europe
immediately after their marriage.) Soon
discovering what his wife was, he left her,
not until she had avowed to-him that it had
been a settled plan between herself; the wo-
man who personated her mother, and the
man, to go to the United States and entrap
some rich American into marrying her. The
similarity of names between him and myself
caused the mistake, and, finding that he was
not the millionaire, she was as happy to be
rid of him as he was glad to have no more to
do with her. With the little that remained
of the five thousand dollars I had sent him,
he was on the point of sailing for Australia,
where a lucrative situation had been offered
him. He sent his love to Laura, and trusted
that she still bore in mind the pleasant though
"limited flirtation " which they had had at
Saratoga.
We went there againthis year-for all those
events occurred in '65. We occupied, as
1 had before, the Ambassador's su-el of rooms,
andI found again the identical clerk, clad as
before in spotless duck, and looking ruddily
happy from over thme bosom of his elaborate

shirt. His worldly fortune, too, was evident-
ly in a more flourishing state than before;
for now he wore a diamond cluster ring,
where of yore he wore one which we will
say was gold, the device ,of which was a
large shield whereon might be read the
touching announcement that it was given by
"P. B. T. to F. A. W."   He jocosely in-
sisted on our having the bridal chamber;
but Laura shrank from the notice which that
would entail. She had her wish in that, as
she has in all things, and as she shall have as
long as I have an arm to wield in herde-
fence, gold to humor her fancies, and life
breath to give power and animation to the
heart whose every throb beats responsive to
her own.
VIII.
CONTAINING GOOD NEWS FOR ALL, ESPE-
CIALLY FOR THE READER, AS IT IS
THE END.
THE recital of this story had only brought
me to the end of the fourth evening of the
Christmas week. But-I was not destined to
continue my pleasant task. On the fifth day
Aunt Julia was taken down with a high fever,
and when we sent for Doctor Dos'em, he
shook his head gravely, and said there was
little to be done. It is but justice to him to
say that lie did little enough. John was dis.
satisfied with him, and sent for another doc-
tor who lived in one of the finest streets in
town and charged a dollar a minute for his
time. He was more expensive, but not less
unsatisfactory than Doctor Dos'emn.
"6You see," said he with a choice of lan-
guage which sounded anything but choice-
to ime at least, "1 Nature, in this female, is
about gone under. What can waterier med-
iker do agaynst a gin' out nature ? If you're
brought this woman to me about twenty-five
years ago, when she had a certain amount of
vytality in her, you'd seen what I'd a' done
then, mighty (quick ! As it is, however, that
prescription will calm her nerves-keep down
what we call hysterier-and--(five dollars
first visit, yes sir)-if she gets worse, you
might send for ime, though I think I shall go
out of town to-morrow."
We tried another and another. Really con-
  scientious men these, whose practice lay among
people who had nothing to say about any
subject but the one of' the illness which had
visited a member of their flock, and whose at-
tention was perforce centered on the patient.
All to no avail,
The service-bells ushered ini the Chiristmii
morn, and from the little chiurichi across the
way we heard thme people singing loud an-

thems of joy for the birth of the son of God.
We sat by Auntie's bedside--John and I-
holding her veinous hands, our two chil-
dren  down   stairs kindly cared for by a
neighbor from the corner. Our little girl
plead staunchly to stay near Aunt Julia. But
our irresponsible baby Johnnie, only a few
months old, screamed and kicked and was
naughty generally ; so both children had to
go. At noon, the sun rose gloriously in the
heavens, and the bells pealed out gladly
again, and the happy-hearted stream of joy-
ous humanity emerged from the church and
had pleasant thoughts, in which perhaps the
knowledge of a turkey at dinner was not
the least consoling, especially as phun-pudding
generally formed an adjunct, and fiery "snap-
dragon " gleamed in advance before juvenile
and scholastic eyes.  A  little  equestrian
statuette of Godfrey de Bouillon, which John
gave me in the first year of our marriage,
stood on our mantlepiece, and, though it was
so familiar to me that for months I had
scarcely turned my eyes toward it, on this
day I fixed my gaze upon it steadfastly, and
it impressed me strangely.  They tell me
(for I have it still) that it is a copy of a life-
size one which adorns a public square in Brus-
sels. It must be worth crossing the Atlantic
to see. The air of fervent piety, valor an(d
devotion stamped on these features most adl-
mirahly indicate the character of the heroic
conqueror of Jerusalemu, who meekly refused
to wear a crown of gold in the city where
his Redeemer had borne a crown of thorns.
Feebler and feebler grows Aunt Julia's
pulse. Fainter and   fainter is heard the
breathing of our patient.
''Oh ! my aunt, can 1 dho nothing for you? "
moans my John, burying his head beside
hers on tie pillow.
Nothing, my boy. It is almost over.
Did you not hear what the doctors said ?
Nature is tired in mie and must rest. More
than that, it must finish.  The works are
broken, my children-the clockk must stop."
John sobs loud and heart-rendimg. '1hue
silent teas course down my cheeks and
bedew  her thin, white  hands, while the
watch ticks with oinconcerned precision on
the table beside her'bed, marking the time
for Aunt Julia to die.
" God bless you all ! " she whispers. "' Ieo
will care for me. lie whose birthday this is,
I mean. Kiss the (children for me ; and tell
Ambrose and JosephI     forgave them  for
turning their backs, and refusing to shelter
the poor old woman ; lbmt," and a faint smile
played on her lips, '' I think they will be
sorry."
The moon rose again in its cohl beauty,
.throwing once more its mvtcrioums steel-blime
rays on the pure snow of theo buse and tree-
tops, amd on its hlackemed an :mmmldefiled ] sister
of time street. Thme e'lildre'm were ini lbed
homers ago, amid now fast aslee'p, nd thme
kimid neighbor from thme corner' 1had long


54                          JOHN MORRIS' MONEY.
since gone home ; and just as the ticking  " craft's," machinery, or the hope of being
of the never-tiring watch pointed with its able to better her "bild ; " and when our
slender hands to midnight, and the clock in  boy Johnnie grew up a little, and began to
the church-steeple opposite proclaimed that develop characteristics of his own, what chan-
hour to those who, sleepless, heard it, I nel do you think his tastes ran in?  The
raieed myself noiselessly and peering into  channel of the sea, dears, the channel of the
Aunty's face, saw that at that moment, too, sea !
the suffering of her physical frame was over, Then-on his pretty little bed-room wall, all
and the tired spirit at rest.             hung with white paper, and on his slate, and
John had to be kissed continuously for the everywhere where it would receive the in-
space of three years ! I think I told you of procession, le drew ships and ships, and then
this little peculiarity of his. Whenever any, again ships and ships, and still more ships
sorrow  or grief fill upon him the entire  and ships, and after that ships out of all
available force of his household had to fall whooping. Ships, with hulls and bottoms,
upon him  as well, soothing his spirit with  and spars, and sternsons and stemsons, and
consoling kisses. Our little girl who had  much more beside. And finally, one day lie
had five years' apprenticeship was quite an marched  in to the drawing-room   where
adept ; but, little Johnnie, who understood  John and I were sitting, and said " Father I
nothing about it, and evidently considered  want a ship of my own. Buy me a yacht,
caresses bestowed upon his bald head    a will von "
great infringement of personal dignity, be- ' - " Buy you one ! " says John pulling the
haved, I ama sorry to say, in the most re- pretty lad of fourteen down on to his knees.
fractorv and undutiful manner to his father,  ' Kiss ie, my boy. I'll build youone. Yes
even going so far as to remove his tiny knit- sir, build it.' What do you think of that?
ted sock from his rosy foot, casting it unfil- We'll build . it together -- you and J. I'll
ally in Papa's face, seeming to say "There's teach you how. I'll show you what a fine
my gauntlet, and down I fling it ! Pick it up workman I was, when I first married that
if you dare."                             good flit lady-your mother-there (kiss me
And now comes the most astounding part Nell), and what sort of jobs I used to turn
of all, It took me exactly six months to  out before you were born, sir - born, or
believe it so I can't expect you'll take it in thought of."
(as it were) all at once   What do you      " Oh, father, how  good you are . " says
think came out after Aunty's death ?  That the boy, twining his arms about his father's
she had left a fortune-an immense fortune, neck, much as I used to (do in years gone
vhili her husband had made in 'California, by. (I do it yet when we're alone, but I'm
and which she had increased nearly three- such an unromantic figure now, girls, I don't
1611 by judicious and happy speculations ; much like to talk aboutit.)
and this fortune-this large fortune, maul-  " Good ! " says John. " Nonsense, Sir
tiplying  into the  hundred-thousands, she  kiss me, sir! I'm not good.  I'm a brute to
had willed unconditionally and unreservedly, you.  And I don't love you not a bit-oh
the very day she received our letter, " to her no ! and I'm  not at all proud of you for be-
dear nephew, John Morris-minus one hun- ing your father's own son and showing ne
dired thousand dollars to be by him bestowed  that, like myself, you love a ship better than
on Ellen Ann, his wife ! "                your dimmer."
Ah yes, to be sure, as you say !     It   Well, if you'll believe me, these two crea-
doesn't astonish you so much as it would if tures set to- work like two common journey-
vou had known us under different circum.n- men and worked and toiled an dlthumped,
stances. You have been so long accus- and came home at night looking like two
tomned to hearing John spoken of as the   tattered atid torn ragamiunlius, with appetites
" rich Mr. Morris," and me as that ", wealthy  like canmibals and sprits as high as high
Mrs. Morris-not a bit proud," that you at could be, laughing g and roaring, and talkimig
form little idea of the joy, tempered with  about " afts " and '" sterns " and " hatch-
tlankfLlness to God, dears, without whose  ways," and " inislhiis,' until, if I hadn't
grace  riches amd  worblly honors are as had the carriage the same  as ever, and this
nought, which milled our quiet household at house, you know, I -should really have-been
this unexpected news.    iik of my dear, temuptcd to believe that we hil got sudden-
darling husband being relieved from  the  ly poor again and that John and our boy
wearisome labor of the hammer and the were paid ship earpe'iters at so much a day
mace ! Think of the first luxury of the --which "so much" was, alas ! so little then !
sweet far niente ! (I got that out of a book,  I don't mmd it myself for l'm a sort of
but I'know what it means) to a man who   old-fashioned body ; hut our daughter, who is
had toiled with body and miind, day in and  four years older than her brother niid conse-
day out, almost from childhood ! qiuently jusmt of thme age for "' society,"-she
Blut, dear moe ! all his riches couldn't take said she really/ felt ashamed about it, andI
away h is 01(1 love for ships. All the poli-- she dimd wvonde(r wvhat time hlighns must think
tics'ini the wvorld1 did nmot interest him  one when they saw Mr. Morris amid his son comn-
third so munch as a new invention in a Hug home like two laborers from work!I

JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.
But when the yacht was finished, and we all place, John has given mlse a co f o
took a sail in i, and pronounced her motion  c'imed om timte gpier, ard cip ofii, mb
delightful (though I was as sea-sick as possi-        -l ited papmr, ai gold, and
ble. but smiled grimly at John and let himgrtm t    wierySati  moroco a   ,  withe
believe I was ejoving it inmmuensely) then place-and '1i1-girlm,
everybody agreed, even our girl, that it was s     de persists in cmaimig tmlmi), e mrimrs'j by
very pleasant to have a private yacht, espec- herself.AuthnJolin ), 'siesed  sc-d his
ially one that one's private feather had lub- fthmr nearly wild with glee. It isa.s his
licly  built.                                     ery   w dtih    ge   .  is aa little
-but. pn yorlltistinsip, fully immamned (of, course not wom:nw;
Buit, up1on my tr orti, all this fmim'I've ))elmi our sex is too liuiiuuipom'taimt forl that ), which
so occupied telling vou about other things         toonnicahastawforthdaiai t),il mmmaih hmtwhich
that Pve never said a word in regard to thIe ed amd ba lertd and mfiumlei maT wit hieis
stories. Well, John published them. Yes, own h     l-a   sunn redise fnayis ithem' ibt
published them, at his own expense. All the ostensibly -a (supis gfor ha'  e  I'
publishes refused them, Ivith deep and heart- tend to 1), vastly h astl, amid iif  reu I pm.
rending thanks for our having presented the But ho wlitv skylitthle thin is tle   m e
MSS. to them. They said they were every- to stal on the taleor thun ls  t  mde
thing in the world except-somethinig whit-h "c keeim gon the'b ovr themm;mi i
they ommght to be.- But when John said he sidt', is mo"e than I km"ow"  "     "
would pay adl the C1 expese him1self-ohda  el (    oeta Ik~r!Unti my11- ,&amp;M~
vomt} 'al  i xeio i      tfor dear ! tellIs inelie will sock it ini mmdmik, tim' ill k it,
that was a different matter. Then anybothy in a sock-I fluyit whic i'hm a d imk odo it
would have published them, from   Mtessr's' tion wmimh twillsmakeitstoaimmitmlii h"ter-
Big-Bug andl Co., No. 2, Book-Publishers .hich 1 shall mie1tilgratefaupl
Square, down to In-Significant Brothers in   T'            u   a    t
Tumppeniy  street. -"'                   hehil  th-lu s ammi  Immiinii
John says they look beautiful in print-mv their newly-
stories do ; but t hat's only his flattery I know  casts ftisem shadow . Omi  hmrfi fi
I can scarcely hope that you think so, too, walls, auths,JohthemmdrI,mlmu bwolmrm
Come now, one word-tdo vomi 9 You can't sit iiistm      and it mandii o   bi,
believe what pleasure it would give me if I  We scarcely spakd  it' pWimn. Juhi
thought you liked them. It's all very well low voices psaks  ne wlid.iii mi  in amloh
for one's husbadil, or one's wife, or one's leet ivel-t' is  a  l hl    a  d  og-
children, or one's parents, to think well of             sh-solovinghy !---ou:i ndy wit6hm  i smimitly,
their relative as an author, lmtfhe true  m ox  And thus, slowlyI-it smilemii 1mmighim in''ehs
Dei for is, as well as for  those  who  trust to  ipo s ms  wl  bt   d liiss   im 'sai re e y
the elective, deia's, is the mighty voice of the diaI whom; kmmmtemida bliile wit thii
people alone.io                                   i'my .' m        mnid w  , lnhi mistm
Ald here another year has passed away,  ver-liit tin' ghiiim1imismit h ht hit'5
ad   Christmas come once muore. Sweet    Str                  - aii   t'emimi
beautiful day, fraught with holy, tender aniford d     stowi imi  huni  m  omit hein
touebing memories for every sinnaier saved coe de  m-                   atthev
through'Icortm-.ian'dmpeace and love for em-ch tomr,
through Ilium).mammi for amhl mmmia oum' Imint hre'm'm-mmm ( 'hiistmi ms,
I have had lots of presents. In the first and n o ah days-now aid fore'vr me
THlE END.
a)-o           n   oee     oe


Price '    Cents.

OLIVE LOGAN'S

NEW

CHRISTMAS STORY.

JOHN MORRIS'S MONEY.

I. INTRODUCTORY AND EXPLANATORY, AND THERF!;OR"s PERHAPS, BET-
TER SKIPPED.
II. ADOUT SOMETHING.
III. ABOUT SOMETHING .ELSE,
IV. ABOUT - NOTHING.
V. ABOUT NOTHING--SHORTER.,
VI. SLIGHTLY SENSATIONAL.
VII. SOMEWHAT RELATIONAL.
VIII.. CONTAINING GOOD NEWS FOR ALL, ESPECIALLY FOR THE READER, AS
IT IS T:n: END.

NEW 'YORK:
THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY,
119 &amp; 121 NASSAU  STREET.
1867.

I'


                              
             
         
       
   
